"Thunderstruck at this disappointment, I could not, for some minutes, utter one syllable. At
length, however, I complained bitterly of the manager's insincerity in amusing me so long,
when he knew from the beginning that he could not gratify my desire. But his lordship reprimanded
me for my freedom, said Mr. Brayer was a man of honour, and imputed his behaviour with respect
to me nothing else but forgetfulness. And indeed I have had some reason, since that time, to
be convinced of his bad memory; for, in spite of appearances, I will not allow myself to interpret
his conduct in any other way. Lord Rattle observing me very much affected with my disappointment,
offered his interest to bring on my play at the other house, which I eagerly accepting, he
forthwith wrote a letter of recommendation to Mr. Bellower, actor and prime minister to Mr.
Vandal, proprietor of that theatre, and desired me to deliver it with my tragedy, without loss
of time. Accordingly, I hastened to his house, where after having waited a whole hour in the
lobby, I was admitted to his presence, and my performance received with great state. He told
me he was extremely busy at present, but he would peruse it as soon as possible, and bade me
to call again in a week. I took my leave, not a little astonished at the pert and supercilious
behaviour of this stage player, who had not treated me with good manners; and began to think
the dignity of a poet greatly impaired since the days of Euripides and Sophocles; but all this
was nothing in comparison of what I have since observed.

"Well, Mr. Random, I went back at the appointed time, and was told that Mr. Bellower was engaged,
and could not see me, I repeated my visit a few days after, and having waited a considerable
time was favoured with an audience, during which, he said, he had not as yet read my play.
Nettled at this usage, I could contain myself no longer, but, telling him, I imagined he would
have paid more deference to Lord Rattle's recommendation, demanded my manuscript with some
expression of resentment. "Ay," said he in a theatrical tone, "with all my heart." Then pulling
out the drawer of the bureau at which he sat, he took out a bundle, and threw it upon a table
that was near him, pronouncing the word, "There!" with great disdain. I took it up, and perceiving
with some surprise, that it was a comedy, told him it did not belong to me; upon which he offered
another which I also disclaimed. A third was produced, and rejected for the same reason. At
length he pulled out a whole bundle, and spread them before me, saying, "There are seven--take
which you please--or take them all." I singled out my own, and went away, struck dumb with
admiration at what I had seen--not so much on account of his insolence, as of the number of
new plays which from this circumstance I concluded were yearly offered to the stage. You may
be sure, I did not fail to carry my complaint to my patron, who did not receive it with all
the indignation I expected; but taxed me with precipitation, and told me I must lay my account
with bearing with the humours of the players, if I intended to write for the stage. "There
is now no other remedy," he said, "but to keep it till the next season for Mr. Brayer, and
alter it at your leisure, in the summer, according to his directions." I was now reduced to
a terrible alternative, either to quit all hopes of my tragedy, from which I had all along
promised myself a large share of fortune and reputation, or to encounter eight long months
of adversity in preparing for and expecting its appearance. This last penance, painful as it
was, seemed most eligible to my reflection at that time, and therefore I resolved to undergo it.

"Why should I tire you with particulars of my consequence? I wrestled with extreme poverty
until the time of my probation was expired; and went to my Lord Rattle in order to remind him
of my affair, when I understood, to my great concern, that his lordship was just on the point
of going abroad, and which was still more unfortunate for me, Mr. Brayer had gone into the
country; so that my generous patron had it not in his power to introduce me personally, as
he intended: however, he wrote a very strong letter to the manager in my favour, and put him
in mind of the promise he had made in behalf of my play.

"As soon as I was certified of Brayer's return, I went to his house with this letter, but was
told he was gone out. I called again next day early in the morning, received the same answer,
and was desired to leave my name and business: I did so, and returned the day after, when the
servant still affirmed that his master was gone abroad; though I perceived him, as I retired,
observing me through a window. Incensed at this discovery, I went to a coffee-house hard by,
and, inclosing his lordship's letter in one from myself, demanded a categorical answer. I sent
it to his house by a porter, who returned in a few minutes, and told me Mr. Brayer would be
glad to see me at that instant. I obeyed the summons, and was received with such profusion
of compliments and apologies, that my resentment immediately subsided, and I was even in pain
for the concern which this holiest man showed at the mistake of his servant, who, it seems,
had been ordered to deny him to everybody but me. He expressed the utmost veneration for his
good and noble friend, Lord Rattle, whom he should always be proud to serve; promised to peruse
the play with all dispatch, and give me a meeting upon it: and, as a testimony of his esteem,
made me a present of a general order for the season, by which I should be admitted to any part
of the theatre. This was a very agreeable compliment to ma, whose greatest pleasure consisted
in seeing dramatic performances, and you need not doubt that I often availed myself of my privilege.
As I had an opportunity of being behind the scenes when I pleased, I frequently conversed with
Mr. Brayer about my play, and asked when he meant to put it into rehearsal; but he had always
so much business upon his hands, that it remained with him unopened a considerable while; and
I became very uneasy about the season, that wasted apace, when I saw in the papers another
new play advertised, which had been written, offered, accepted, and rehearsed, in the compass
of three months. You may easily guess how much I was confounded at this event! I own to you
that, in the first transports of my anger, I suspected Mr. Brayer of having acted towards me
in the most pitiful perfidious manner; and was actually glad at his disappointment in the success
of his favourite piece, which, by the strength of art, lingered till the third night, and then
died in a deplorable manner. But now that passion has no share in my reflection, I am willing
to ascribe his behaviour to his want of memory or want of judgment, which, you know, are natural
defects, that are more worthy of compassion than reproach.

"About this time I happened to be in company with a gentlewoman, who, having heard of my tragedy,
told me, she was well acquainted with the wife of a gentleman who was very well known to a
lady, who had great interest with a person who was intimate with Earl Sheerwit: and that, if
I pleased, she would use her influence in my behalf. As this nobleman had the character of
a Maecenas in the nation, and could stamp a value upon any work by his sole countenance and
approbation, I accepted her offer with eagerness, in full confidence of seeing my reputation
established, and my wishes fulfilled in a very short time, provided that I should have the
good fortune to please his lordship's taste. I withdrew the manuscript from the hands of Mr.
Brayer, and committed it to the care of this gentlewoman, who laboured so effectually in my
interest, that in less than a month it was conveyed to the earl, and in a few weeks after,
I had the satisfaction to hear that he had read and approved it very much. Transported with
this piece of intelligence, I flattered myself with the hopes of his interesting himself in
its favour, but, hearing no more of this matter in three whole months, I began (God forgive
me!) to suspect the veracity of the person who brought me the good tidings; for I thought it
impossible that a man of his rank and character, who knew the difficulty of writing a good
tragedy, and understood the dignity of the work, should read and applaud an essay of this kind,
without feeling an inclination to befriend the author, whom his countenance alone could raise
above dependence. But it was not long before I found my friend very much wronged by my opinion.

"You must know, that the civilities I had received from Lord Rattle, and the desire he manifested
to promote the success of my play, encouraged me to write an account of my bad fortune to his
lordship, who condescended so far as to desire, by letter, a young squire of a great estate,
with whom he was intimate, to espouse my cause, and, in particular, make me acquainted with
one Mr. Marmozet, a celebrated player, who had lately appeared on the stage with astonishing
eclat, and bore such sway in the house where he acted, that the managers durst not refuse anything
he recommended. The young gentleman, whom Lord Rattle had employed for this purpose, being
diffident of his own interest with Mr. Marmozet, had recourse to a nobleman of his acquaintance,
who, at his solicitation, was so good as to introduce me to him; and the conversation turning
upon my performance, I was not a little surprised, as well as pleased, to hear that Earl Sheerwit
had spoken very much in its praise, and even sent Mr. Marmozet the copy, with a message, expressing
a desire that he would act in it next season. Nor was this favourite actor backward in commending
the piece, which he mentioned with such expressions of regard, that I do not choose to repeat:
assuring me that he would appear in it, provided he should be engaged to play at all during
the ensuing season. In the meantime, he desired I would give him leave to peruse it in the
country, whither he intended to remove next day, that he might have leisure to consider and
point out such alterations as might, perhaps, be necessary for its representation; and took
my direction, that he might communicate by letter the observations he should make. Trusting
to these assurances, and the interest which had been made in my behalf, I hugged myself in
the expectation of seeing it not only acted, but acted to the greatest advantage, and this
I thought could not fail of recompensing me in ample manner for the anxiety and affliction
I had undergone; but six weeks being elapsed, I did not know how to reconcile Mr. Marmozet's
silence with his promise of writing to me in ten days after he set out for the country; however,
I was at last favoured with a letter, importing that he had made some remarks on my tragedy,
which he would freely impart at meeting, and advised me to put it, without loss of time, into
the hands of that manager, who had the best company; as he himself was quite uncertain whether
or not he should be engaged that winter. I was a good deal alarmed at this last part of his
letter, and advised about it with a friend, who told me, it was a plain indication of Mr. Marmozet's
desire to get rid of his promise; that his pretended uncertainty about acting next winter was
no other than a scandalous evasion; for, to his certain knowledge, he was already engaged,
or at least in terms, with Mr. Vandal; and that his design was to disappoint me, in favour
of a new comedy, which he had purchased of the author, and intended to bring upon the stage
for his own advantage.

"In short, my dear sir, this person, who, I must own, is if a sanguine complexion, handled
the moral character of Mr. Marmozet with such severity, that I began to suspect him of some
particular prejudice, and put myself upon my guard against his insinuations. I ought to crave
pardon for this tedious narration of trivial circumstances, which, however interesting they
may be to me, must certainly be very dry and insipid to the ear of one unconcerned in the affair.
But I understand the meaning of your looks, and will proceed.

"Well, sir, Mr. Marmozet, upon his return to town, treated me with uncommon complaisance, and
invited me to his lodgings, where he proposed to communicate his remarks, which, I confess,
were more unfavourable than I expected; but I answered his objections, and, as I thought, brought
him over to my opinion; for, on the whole, he signified the highest approbation of the performance.
In the course of our dispute, I was not a little surprised to find this poor gentleman's memory
so treacherous, as to let him forget what he had said to me, before he went out of town, in
regard to Earl Sheerwit's opinion of my play, which he now professed himself ignorant of; and
I was extremely mortified at hearing from his own mouth, that his interest with Mr. Vandal
was so very low as to be insufficient of itself to bring a new piece upon the stage. I then
begged his advice, and he counselled me to apply to Earl Sheerwit, for a message in my favour
to the manager, who would not presume to refuse anything recommended by so great man; and he
was so kind as to promise to second this message with all his power. I had immediate recourse
to the worthy gentlewoman my friend, already mentioned, who opened the channels of her conveyance
with such expedition, that in a few days I had a promise of the message, provided I could assure
myself of Mr. Vandal's being unengaged to any other writer; for his lordship did not choose
to condescend so far, until he should understand that there was a probability (at least) of
succeeding; at the same time that blessed me with this piece of news, I was startled at another,
by the same channel of communication; which was, that Mr. Marmozet, before he advised me to
this application, had informed the earl that he had read my play, and found it altogether unfit
for the stage. Though I could not doubt the certainty of this intelligence, I believed there
was some inapprehension in the case; and, without taking any notice of it, told Mr. Marmozet
the answer I had been favoured with; and he promised to ask Mr. Vandal the question proposed.
I waited upon him in a day or two, when he gave me to understand, that Mr. Vandal having professed
himself free of all engagements, he had put my play into his hands, and represented it as a
piece strongly recommended by Earl Sheerwit, who (he assured him) would honour him with a message
in its favour; and he desired me to call for an answer at Mr. Vandal's house in three days.
I followed his directions, and found the manager, who being made acquainted with my business,
owned that Mr. Marmozet had given him a manuscript play, but denied that he had mentioned Earl
Sheerwit's name. When I informed him of the circumstances of the affair, he said, he had no
engagement with any author; that he would read my tragedy forthwith; and did not believe he
should venture to reject it in contradiction to his lordship's opinion, for which he had the
utmost veneration, but put it into rehearsal without loss of time. I was so much intoxicated
with this encouragement, that I overlooked the mysterious conduct of Mr. Marmozet, and attended
the manager at the time appointed, when, to my infinite confusion, he pronounced my play improper
for the stage, and rejected it accordingly. As soon as I could recollect myself from the disorder
into which this unexpected refusal had thrown me, I expressed a desire of hearing his objections,
which were so groundless, indistinct, and unintelligible, that I persuaded myself he had not
at all perused the piece, but had been prompted by somebody whose lessons he had not rightly
retained. However, I have been since informed that the poor man's head, which was not naturally
very clear, had been disordered with superstition, and that he laboured under the tyranny of
a wife, and the terrors of hellfire at the same time.

"Precipitated in this manner from the highest pinnacle of hope to the abyss of despondence,
I was ready to sink under the burden of my affliction, and, in the bitterness of my anguish,
could not help entertaining some doubts of Mr. Marmozet's integrity, when I recollected and
compared the circumstances of his conduct towards me. I was encouraged in this suspicion by
being told that my Lord Sheerwit had spoken of his character with great contempt: and, in particular,
resented his insolence in opposing his own taste to that of his lordship, concerning my tragedy.
While I hesitated between different opinions of the matter, that friend, who (as I told you
before) was a little hot-headed, favoured me with a visit, and, having heard a circumstantial
account of the whole affair, could not contain his indignation, but affirmed without ceremony
that Mr. Marmozet was the sole occasion of my disappointment; that he acted from first to last
with the most perfidious dissimulation, cajoling me with insinuating civilities, while he underhand
employed all his art and influence to prejudice the ignorant manager against my performance;
that nothing could equal his hypocrisy but his avarice, which engrossed the faculties of his
soul so much, that he scrupled not to be guilty of the meanest practices to gratify that sordid
appetite; that, in consequence of this disposition, he had prostituted his honour in betraying
my inexperience, and in undermining the interest of another author of established reputation,
who had also offered a tragedy to the stage, which he thought would interfere with the success
of the comedy he had bought, and determined to bring on at all events.

"I was shocked at the description of such a monster, which I could not believe existed in the
world, bad as it is, and argued against the asseverations of my friend, by demonstrating the
bad policy of such behaviour, which could not fail of entailing infamy upon the author; and
the small temptation that a man of Mr. Marmozet's figure and success could have to consult
his interest in such a grovelling manner, which must create contempt and abhorrence of him
in his patrons, and effectually deprive him of the countenance and protection he now enjoys
in such an eminent degree. He pretended to laugh at my simplicity, and asked, if I knew for
which of his virtues he was so much caressed by the people of fashion. "It is not," said he,
"for the qualities of his heart, that this little parasite is invited to the tables of dukes
and lords, who hire extraordinary cooks for his entertainment. His avarice they see not, his
ingratitude they feel not, his hypocrisy accommodates itself to their humours, and is of consequence
pleasing; but he is chiefly courted for his buffoonery, and will be admitted into the choicest
parties of quality for his talent of mimicking Punch and his wife Joan, when a poet of the
most excellent genius is not able to attract the least regard." God forbid, Mr. Random, that
I should credit assertions that degrade the dignity of our superiors so much, and represent
the poor man as the most abject of all beings! No, I looked upon them as the hyperboles of
passion; and though that comedy of which he spoke did actually appear, I dare not doubt the
innocence of Mr. Marmozet, who, I am told, is as much as ever in favour with the earl; a circumstance
that, surely, could not be, unless he had vindicated his character to the satisfaction of his
lordship. Pray forgive this long digression, and give me the hearing a little longer; for,
thank heaven! I am now near the goal.

"Baffled in all my attempts, I despaired of seeing my play acted; and bethought myself of choosing
some employment that might afford a sure, though mean subsistence; but my landlord, to whom
I was by this time considerably indebted, and who had laid his account with having his money
paid all in a heap from the profits of my third night, could not brook his disappointment,
therefore made another effort in my behalf, and, by dint of interest, procured a message from
a lady of fashion to Mr. Brayer, who had always professed a great veneration for her, desiring
that he would set up my play forthwith, and assuring him that she and all her friends would
support it in the performance. To strengthen my interest, she engaged his best actors in my
cause; and, in short, exerted herself so much, that it was again received, and my hopes began
to revive. But Mr. Brayer, honest man, was so much engrossed by business of vast consequence,
though to appearance he had nothing at all to do, that he could not find time to read it until
the season was pretty far advanced; and read it he must, for notwithstanding his having perused
it before, his memory did not retain one circumstance of the matter.

"At length he favoured it with his attention, and having proposed certain alterations, sent
his duty to the lady who patronised it, and promised, on his honour, to bring it on next winter,
provided these alterations should be made, and the copy delivered to him before the end of
April. With an aching heart, I submitted to these conditions, and performed them accordingly:
but fortune owed me another unforeseen mortification; Mr. Marmozet, during the summer, became
joint patentee with Mr. Brayer, so that when I claimed performance of articles, I was told
he could do nothing without the consent of his partner, who was pre-engaged to another author.

"My condition was rendered desperate by the death of my good friend and landlord, whose executors
obtained a judgment against my effects, which they seized, turned me out into the streets naked,
friendless, and forlorn: there I was arrested at the suit of my tailor, and thrown into the
prison, where I have made shift to live these five weeks on the bounty of my fellow prisoners,
who, I hope, are not the worse for the instruction and good offices by which I manifest my
gratitude; but in spite of all their charitable endeavours, my life was scarce tolerable, until
your uncommon benevolence enabled me to enjoy it with comfort."

CHAPTER LXIV

I am seized with a deep Melancholy, and become a Sloven--am relieved by my Uncle--he prevails
upon me to engage with his Owners, as a Surgeon of the Ship which he commands--he makes me
a considerable Present--entertain Strap as his steward--I take leave of my Friends, and go
on Board--the Ship arrives in the Downs

I shall not make any reflection on this story, in the course of which the reader must perceive
how egregiously the simplicity and milky disposition of this worthy man had been duped and
abused by a set of scoundrels, who were so habituated to falsehood and equivocation, that I
verily believed they would have found the utmost difficulty in uttering one syllable of truth,
though their lives had depended upon their sincerity. Notwithstanding all I had suffered from
the knavery and selfishness of mankind, I was amazed and incensed by the base indifference
which suffered such uncommon merit as he possessed to languish in obscurity, and struggle with
all the miseries of a loathsome gaol; and should have blessed the occasion that secluded me
from such a perfidious world, had not the remembrance of my amiable Narcissa preserved my attachment
to a society of which she constituted a part. The picture of that lovely creature was the constant
companion of my solitude. How often did I contemplate the resemblance of those enchanting features
that first captivated my heart! how often did I weep over those endearing scenes which her
image recalled! and how often did I curse my perfidious fate for having robbed me of the fair
original! In vain did my imagination flatter me with schemes of future happiness: surly reason
always interposed, and in a moment overthrew the unsubstantial fabric, by chastising the extravagance
of my hope, and representing my unhappy situation in the right point of view. In vain did I
fly for refuge to the amusements of the place, and engage in the parties of Jackson at cards,
billiards, nine-pins, and fives; a train of melancholy thoughts took possession of my soul,
which even the conversation of Melopoyn could not divert. I ordered Strap to inquire every
day at Banter's lodgings, in expectation of hearing again from my charmer; and my disappointment
considerably, augmented my chagrin. My affectionate valet was infected with my sorrow, and
often sat with me whole hours without speaking, uttering sigh for sigh, and shedding tear for
tear. This fellowship increased our distemper; he became incapable of business, and was discarded
by his master; while I, seeing my money melt away without any certainty of deliverance, and,
in short, all my hopes frustrated, grew negligent of life, lost all appetite, and degenerated
into such a sloven that during the space of three months I was neither washed, shifted, nor
shaved; so that my face, rendered meagre with abstinence, was obscured with dirt, and overshadowed
with hair, and my whole appearance squalid and even frightful; when, one day, Strap brought
me notice, that there was a man below who wanted to speak with me. Roused at this intelligence,
and in full hopes of receiving a letter from the dear object of my love, I ran downstairs with
the utmost precipitation. And found to my infinite surprise my generous uncle, Mr. Bowling!
Transported at the sight, I sprang forward to embrace him. Upon which he started aside with
great agility, drew his hanger, and put himself upon his guard, crying, "Avast, brother, avast!
Sheer off. Yo ho! you turnkey, why don't you keep a better look out? Here's one of your crazy
prisoners broke from his lashings, I suppose." I could not help laughing heartily at his mistake;
but this I soon rectified by my voice, which he instantly recollected, and shook me by the
hand with great affection, testifying his concern at seeing me in such a miserable condition.

I conducted him to my apartment, where, in presence of Strap, whom I introduced to him as one
of my best friends, he gave me to understand, that he was just arrived from the Coast Of Guinea,
after having made a pretty successful voyage, in which he had acted as mate, until the ship
was attacked by a French privateer, that the captain being killed during the engagement, he
had taken the command, and was so fortunate as to sink the enemy; after which exploit he fell
in with a merchant ship from Martinico, laden with sugar, indigo and some silver and by virtue
of his letter of marque, attacked, took, and carried her safe into Kinsale in Ireland, where
she was condemned as a lawful prize; by which means he had not only got a pretty sum of money,
but also acquired the favour of his owners, who had already conferred upon him the command
of a large ship, mounted with twenty nine-pounders, ready to sail upon a very advantageous
voyage, which he was not at liberty to discover. And he assured me that it was with the greatest
difficulty he found me, in consequence of a direction left for him at his lodgings at Wapping.

I was rejoiced beyond measure at this account of his good fortune; and, at his desire, recounted
all the adventures that had happened to me since we parted. When he understood the particulars
of Strap's attachment to me, he squeezed his hand very cordially, and promised to make a man
of him; then, giving me ten guineas for my present occasion, took a direction for the tailor
who arrested me, and went away in order to discharge the debt, telling me at parting, that
he would soon fetch up all my leeway with a wet sail.

I was utterly confounded at this sudden transition, which affected me more than any reverse
I had formerly felt; and a crowd of incoherent ideas rushed so impetuously upon my imagination,
that my reason could neither separate nor connect them; when Strap, whose joy had manifested
itself in a thousand fool-cries, came into my room with his shaving utensils, and without any
previous intimation, began to lather my beard, whistling with great emotion all the while.
I started from my reverie, and, being too well acquainted with Strap to trust myself in his
hands while he was under such agitation, desired to be excused, sent for another barber, and
suffered myself to be trimmed. Having performed the ceremony of ablution, I shifted, and dressing
in my gayest apparel, waited for the return of my uncle, who was agreeably surprised at my
sudden transformation.

This beneficent kinsman had satisfied my creditor, and obtained an order for my discharge,
so that I was no longer a prisoner; but, as I had some reluctance to part with my friends and
fellows in distress, I prevailed upon Mr. Bowling to favour us with his company, and invited
Mr. Melopoyn and Jackson to spend the evening at my apartment, where I regaled them with a
supper, good wine, and the news of my release, on which they heartily congratulated me, notwithstanding
the loss of my company, which, they were pleased to say, they should severely feel. As for
Jackson, his misfortune made so little impression on himself, and he was altogether so loose,
indifferent, and indiscreet, that I could scarce pity his situation: but I had conceived a
veneration and friendship for the poet, who was, in all respects, an object much more worthy
of compassion and regard. When our guests withdrew, and my uncle had retired, with an intention
of visiting me next morning, I made up a bundle of some linen and other necessaries; and, bidding
Strap carry them to Mr. Melopoyn's lodgings, went thither myself, and pressed it upon his acceptance,
with five guineas, which, with much difficulty, he received, assuring me at the same time,
that he should never have it in his power to make satisfaction. I then asked if I could serve
him in any other way; to which he answered, "You have already done too much;" and, unable to
contain the emotions of his soul any longer, burst into tears, and wept aloud. Moved at this
spectacle, I left him to his repose, and, when my uncle returned in the morning, represented
his character in such a favourable light, that the honest seaman was affected with his distress,
and determined to follow my example, in presenting him with five pieces more; upon which, that
I might save him some confusion, I advised Mr. Bowling to inclose it in a letter to be delivered
by Strap, after we should be gone.

This was accordingly done. I took a formal leave of all my acquaintance in the gaol; and, just
as I was about to step into a hackney coach at the gate, Jackson calling me, I returned, and
he asked me in a whisper, if I could lend him a shilling! His demand being so moderate, and
in all likelihood the last he would make upon me, I slipped a guinea into his hand, which he
no sooner perceived, than he cried, "O Jesus, a guinea!" then laying hold of a button of my
coat, broke out into laughter; and when his immoderate fit of convulsion was ended, told me
I was an honest fellow, and let me go. The coachman was ordered to drive to Mr. Bowling's lodgings,
where, when we arrived, he entered into a serious discourse with me, on the subject of my situation,
and proposed that I should sail with him in quality of his surgeon; in which case he would
put me in a method of getting a fortune in a few years by my own industry; and assured me,
that I might expect to inherit all that he should die possessed of, provided I should survive
him. Though I was penetrated with a sense of his generosity, l was startled at a proposal that
offered violence to my love, and signified my sentiments on that head, which he did not seem
to relish; but observed that love was the fruit of idleness, that when once I should be employed
in business, and my mind engaged in making money, I should be no more troubled with these silly
notions, which none but your fair-weathered Jacks, who have nothing but their pleasure to mind,
ought to entertain. I was piqued at this insinuation, which I looked upon as a reproach, and,
without giving myself time to deliberate, accepted his offer. He was overjoyed at my compliance,
carried me immediately to his chief owner, with whom a bargain was struck; so that then I could
not retract with honour, had I been ever so much averse to the agreement. That I might not
have time to cool, he bade me draw out a list of medicines for a complement of five hundred
men, adapted to the distempers of hot climates and sufficient for a voyage of eighteen months;
and carry it to a certain wholesale apothecary, who would also provide me in two well-qualified
mates. While I was thus employed Strap came in, and looked very blank, when he understood my
resolution: however, after a pause of some minutes, he insisted upon going along with me; and
at my desire was made ship's steward by Captain Bowling, who promised to be at the expense
of fitting him out, and to lend him two hundred pounds to purchase an adventure.

When I had delivered my list of medicines, chosen a couple of my own countrymen for mates,
and bespoke a set of chirurgical instruments, my uncle told me, that by his last voyage he
had cleared almost three thousand pounds, one-third of which he would immediately make over
and put into my hands; that he would procure for me credit to the value of as much wore in
such goods as would turn to best account in the country to which we were bound; and that, although
he looked upon my interest as his own, he would keep the remaining part of his fortune in his
own disposal, with a view of preserving his independence, and the power of punishing me, in
case I should not make a good use of what he had already bestowed.

Without troubling the reader with an account of the effect which this surprising generosity
had upon my mind, I shall only say, that his promises were instantly performed, and an invoice
of merchandise proper for the voyage presented to me, that I might purchase the goods, and
ship them with all expedition. In the midst of this hurry, the remembrance of my charming Narcissa
often interposed, and made me the most miserable of all mortals. I was distracted with the
thought of being torn from her, perhaps for ever; and though the hope of seeing her again might
have supported me under the torments of separation, I could not reflect upon the anguish she
must feel at parting with me, and the incessant sorrows to which her tender bosom would be
exposed during my absence, without being pierced with the deepest affliction! As my imagination
was daily and nightly upon the rack to invent some method of mitigating this cruel stroke,
or at least of acquitting my love and honour in the opinion of this gentle creature, I at length
stumbled upon an expedient, with which the reader will be made acquainted in due time; and,
in consequence of my determination, became less uneasy and disturbed.

My business being finished, and the ship ready to sail, I resolved to make my last appearance
among my acquaintance at the other end of the town, where I had not been since my imprisonment;
and as I had, by the advice of my uncle, taken off some very rich clothes for sale, I put on
the gayest suit in my possession, and went in a chair to the coffee-house I used to frequent,
where I found my friend Banter so confounded at the magnificence of my dress, that, when I
made up to him, he gazed at me with a look of astonishment, without being able, for some minutes,
to open his lips; then pulling me aside by the sleeve, and fixing his eyes on mine, accosted
me thus: "Random, where the devil have you been! eh? What is the meaning of all this finery?
Oho! I understand you. You are just arrived from the country! what, the roads are good, eh?
Well, Random, you are a bold fellow, and a lucky fellow! but take care, the pitcher goes often
to the well, but is broke at last." So saying, he pointed to his collar; by which gesture,
and the broken hints he had ejaculated, I found he suspected me of having robbed on the highway;
and I laughed very heartily at his supposition. Without explaining myself any further, I told
him he was mistaken in his conjecture; that I had been for some time past with the relation
of whom he had frequently heard me speak; and that, as I should set out next day upon my travels,
I had come to take my leave of my friends, and to receive of him the money he had borrowed
from me, which, now that I was going abroad, I should certainly have occasion for. He was a
little disconcerted at this demand; but, recollecting himself in a moment, swore in an affected
passion, that I had used him extremely ill, and he would never forgive me for having, by this
short warning, put it out of his power to free himself of an obligation he could no longer
bear. I could not help smiling at this pretended delicacy, which I commended highly, telling
him he needed not to be uneasy on that score, for I would give him a direction to a merchant
in the city, with whom I would leave a discharge on the sum, to be delivered upon payment.
He professed much joy at this expedient, and with great eagerness asked the person's name and
place of abode, which he forthwith wrote in his pocket-book, assuring me, that he should not
be long in my debt. This affair, which I knew he should never after think of, being settled
to his satisfaction, I sent cards to all my friends, desiring the favour of their company at
a tavern in the evening, when they honoured my invitation, and I had the pleasure of treating
them in a very elegant manner, at which they expressed equal admiration as applause. Having
enjoyed ourselves till midnight, I took my leave of them, and was well nigh stifled with caresses:
next day, I set out with Strap in a postchaise for Gravesend, where we went on board; and the
wind serving, weighed anchor in less than twelve hours. Without meeting with any accident,
we reached the Downs, where we were obliged to come to an anchor, and wait for an easterly
wind to carry us out of the Channel.

CHAPTER LXV

I set out for Sussex--consult Mrs. Sagely--achieve an Interview with Narcissa--return to the
Ship--we get clear of the Channel--I learn our Destination--we are chased by a large Ship--the
company are dismayed, and encouraged by the Captain's speech--our pursuer happens to be an
English Man of War--we arrive at the Coast of Guinea, purchase four hundred Negroes--sail for
Paraguay, get safe into the River of Plate, and sell our Cargo to great Advantage

