Some favoured an alliance with the East; some preferred the friendship of the West; others,
a course of diplomatic dalliance; a few stood out for honest independence. Some said that what
the country needed was an increase of wealth; some held that a splendid and luxurious court
like that of Pharaoh or Nebuchadnezzar would bring prosperity; others maintained that the troubles
of the land could be healed only by a return to "simpler manners, purer laws." Among the nobility
and their followers all kinds of novelties in the worship of idols were in fashion and new
gods were imported every season. The philosophers cultivated a discreet indifference to all
religious questions. The prophets taught that the only salvation for the nation lay in the
putting away of idolatry and the revival of faith in the living and true God.

Judah was like a man standing at the cross-roads, on a stormy night, with all the guide-posts
blown down. Meantime the Babylonian foe was closing in around Jerusalem, and it was necessary
to do something, or die.

The liberty of choice was an embarrassment. The minds of men alternated between that rash haste
which is ready to follow any leader who makes noise enough, and that skeptical spirit which
doubts whether any line of action can be right because so many lines are open. Into this atmosphere
of fever and fog came the word of the prophet. Let us consider what it means.

Stand ye in the ways and see: that means deliberation. When you are at a junction it is no
time to shut your eyes and run at full speed. Where there are so many ways some of them are
likely to be wrong. A turning-point is the place for prudence and forethought.

Ask for the old paths, what is the good way: that means guidance. No man is forced to face
the problems of life alone. Other men have tried the different ways. Peace, prosperity, victory
have been won by the nation in former times. Inquire of the past how these blessings were secured.
Look for the path which has already led to safety and happiness. Let history teach you which
among all these crossing ways is the best to follow.

And walk therein: that means action. When you have deliberated, when you have seen the guiding
light upon the way of security and peace, then go ahead. Prudence is worthless unless you put
it into practice. When in doubt do nothing; but as long as you do nothing you will be in doubt.
Never man or nation was saved by inaction. The only way out of danger is the way into work.
Gird up your loins, trembling Judah, and push along your chosen path, steadily, bravely, strenuously,
until you come to your promised rest.

Now I am sure this was good counsel that the prophet gave to his people in the days of perplexity.
It would have been well for them if they had followed it I am sure it is also good counsel
for us, a word of God to steady us and stimulate us amid life's confusions. Let me make it
a personal message to you.

Stand in the ways: Ask for the good way: Walk therein:--Deliberation, Guidance, Action,--Will
you take these words with you, and try to make them a vital influence in your life?

I. First, I ask you to stand in the ways and see. I do not mean to say that you have not already
been doing this to a certain extent. The great world is crossed by human footsteps which make
paths leading in all directions. Men travel through on different ways; and I suppose some of
you have noticed the fact, and thought a little about it.

There is the way of sensuality. Those who walk in it take appetite as their guide. Their main
object in life is to gratify their physical desires. Some of them are delicate, and some of
them are coarse. That is a matter of temperament. But all of them are hungry. That is a matter
of principle. Whether they grub in the mire for their food like swine, or browse daintily upon
the tree-tops like the giraffe, the question of life for those who follow this way is the same.
"How much can we hold? How can we obtain the most pleasure for these five senses of ours before
they wear out?" And the watchword of their journey is, "Let us eat and drink and be merry,
for we do not expect to die to-morrow."

There is the way of avarice. Those who follow it make haste to be rich. The almighty dollar
rolls before them along the road, and they chase it. Some of them plod patiently along the
highway of toil. Others are always leaping fences and trying to find short cuts to wealth.
But they are alike in this: whatever they do by way of avocation, the real vocation of their
life is to make money. If they fail, they are hard and bitter; if they succeed they are hard
and proud. But they all bow down to the golden calf, and their motto is, "Lay up for yourselves
treasures upon earth."

There is the way of social ambition. Those who walk in it have their eyes fixed on various
prizes, such as titles of honour, public office, large acquaintance with prosperous people,
the reputation of leading the fashion. But the real satisfaction that they get out of it all
is simply the feeling of notoriety, the sense of belonging to a circle to which ordinary people
are not admitted and to whose doings the world, just for this reason, pays envious attention.
This way is less like a road than like a ladder. Most of the people who are on it are "climbers."

There are other ways, less clearly marked, more difficult to trace,--the way of moral indifference,
the way of intellectual pride, the way of hypocrisy, the way of indecision. This last is not
a single road; it is a net-work of sheep-tracks, crossing and recrossing the great highways,
leading in every direction, and ending nowhere. The men who wander in these aimless paths go
up and down through the world, changing their purposes, following one another blindly, forever
travelling but never arriving at the goal of their journey.

Through all this tangle there runs another way,--the path of faith and duty. Those who walk
in it believe that life has a meaning, the fulfilment of God's will, and a goal, the attainment
of perfect harmony with Him. They try to make the best of themselves in soul and body by training
and discipline. They endeavour to put their talents to the noblest use in the service of their
fellow-men, and to unfold their faculties to the highest joy and power in the life of the Spirit.
They seek an education to fit them for work, and they do their work well because it is a part
of their education. They respect their consciences, and cherish their ideals. They put forth
an honest effort to be good and to do good and to make the world better. They often stumble.
They sometimes fall. But, take their life from end to end, it is a faithful attempt to walk
in "the way of righteousness, which is the way of peace."

Such are some of the ways that lead through the world. And they are all open to us. We can
travel by the road that pleases us. Heredity gives us our outfit. Environment supplies our
company. But when we come to the cross-roads, the question is, "Boy, which way will you ride?"

Deliberation is necessary, unless we wish to play a fool's part. No amount of energy will take
the place of thought. A strenuous life, with its eyes shut, is a kind of wild insanity. A drifting
life, with its eyes open, is a kind of mild idiocy.

The real question is, "How will you live? After what rule and pattern? Along what way? Toward
what end?"

