He completed his operation at the stove and returned the lid to its place with no lack of deliberation.
He was evidently waiting for her to speak again, but she worked on in silence.

"What did you say about milking?" he ventured at length.

"I asked you if you milked," she said, with an attempt at curtness. "And you answered, 'Milk
what?' as though that were clever.  And we need milk for breakfast."

"Well, I was serious enough," he said.  "There isn't a cow within twenty miles."

"No cows?  Why, I thought this was the ranching country?"

"Sure thing.  We sell beef and buy milk.  Let me show you."

He approached a packing-case on the wall, walking softly and extending his hands as though
to touch it gently, and murmuring, "So boss; so boss," as he went.  From the box he removed
a tin of condensed milk, which he set on the table.  In his pocket he found a nail, and with
a hammer quickly made two holes in the tin.

"Milkin' is finished," he announced.

At this juncture the doctor, who had been resting in the room with his patient, entered the
kitchen.  During the setting of the limb he had gradually become aware of the position of Irene
in the household, but had that not been so, one glance at the boy and girl as they now stood
in the bright morning sunshine, he with his big, wiry frame, his brown face, his dark eyes,
his black hair; she, round and knit and smooth, with the pink shining through her fair skin
and the light of youth dancing in her grey eyes and the light of day glancing on her brown
hair, must have told him they had sprung from widely separated stock. For one perilous moment
he was about to apologize for the mistake made in the darkness, but some wise instinct closed
his lips.  But he wondered why she had not corrected him.

They were seated at breakfast when the senior Elden made his appearance.  He had slept off
his debauch and was as sober as a man in the throes of alcoholic appetite may be.  He was only
partially dressed; his face had the peculiar bulginess of the hard drinker; his eyes were watery
and shifty, and several days' growth of beard, with patchy grey and black spots, gave a stucco
effect to his countenance. His moustache drooped over a partly open mouth; the top of his large
head was bald, and the hair that hung about his ears was much darker than his moustache.  Seeing
the strangers, he hesitated in his lurch toward the water pail, steadied himself on wide-spread
feet, very flat on the floor, and waved his right hand slowly in the air.  Whether this was
to be understood as a form of salutation or a gesture of defiance was a matter of interpretation.

"Vishitors," said the old man, at length.  "Alwaysh welcome, m'sure. 'Sh scush me."  He made
his uncertain way to the water bench, took a great drink, and set about washing his face and
hands, while the breakfast proceeded in silence.  As his preparations neared completion Irene
set a place at the table.

"Won't you sit down here, Mr. Elden?" she said.  There had been no introductions.  Dave ate
on in silence.

"Thank you," said the old man, and there was something in his voice which may have been emotion,
or may have been the huskiness of the heavy drinker's throat.  The girl gave it the former
explanation. Perhaps it was his unintended tribute to that touch of womanly attentiveness to
which his old heart still beat response.  As he took the proffered chair she saw in this old
man shreds of dignity which the less refined eye of his son had not distinguished.  To Dave,
his father was an affliction to be borne; an unfair load on a boy who had done nothing to deserve
this punishment.  The miseries associated with his parentage had gone far to make him sour
and moody.  Irene at first had thought him rude and gloomy; flashes of humor had modified that
opinion, but she had not yet learned that his disposition was naturally a buoyant one, weighed
down by an environment which had made it soggy and unresponsive.  In years to come she was
to know what unguessed depths of character were to be revealed when that stoic nature was cross-sectioned
by the blade of a keen and defiant passion.  This morning she foresaw nothing of those future
revelations, but in the old man her instinct detected qualities which perhaps were awaiting
only some touch of sympathetic understanding to flash forth even yet like that burst of sunset
radiance which sometimes marks the close of a leaden day.

Mr. Elden promptly engaged the doctor in conversation, and in a few moments had gleaned the
main facts in connection with the accident and the father and daughter which it had brought
so involuntarily under his roof.  He was quite sober now, and his speech, although slovenly,
was not indelicate.  He was still able to pay to woman that respect which curbs the coarseness
of a tongue for years subjected to little discipline.

After breakfast Irene attended to the wants of her father, and by this time the visiting doctor
was manifesting impatience to be away.  Other fees were calling him, and he assured Doctor
Hardy, what the latter quite well knew, that nothing more could be done for him at present.
He would come again at any time if summoned by the young man, or if his professional duties
should bring him into the neighborhood of the Elden ranch.  But Dave declared with prompt finality
that the horses must rest until after noon, and the doctor, willy-nilly, spent the morning
rambling in the foothills.  Meanwhile the girl busied herself with work about the house, in
which she was effecting a rapid transformation.

After the mid-day dinner Dave harnessed the team for the journey to town, but before leaving
inquired of Irene if there were any special purchases, either personal or for the use of the
house, which she would recommend.  With some diffidence she mentioned one that was uppermost
in her thoughts: soap, both laundry and toilet.  Dr. Hardy had no hesitation in calling for
a box of his favorite cigars and some new magazines, and took occasion to press into the boy's
hand a bill out of all proportion to the value of the supplies requested.  There was an argument
in the yard, which the girl did not fully hear, between father and son, but she gathered that
the old man insisted on going to town, and, failing that, that Dave should replenish his stock
of whiskey, to neither of which would the young man consent.  It was evident that Dave was
the responsible person in the affairs of the Elden ranch.

The day was introductory to others that were to follow.  Dave returned the next afternoon,
riding his own horse, and heavily laden with cigars, magazines, soap, and with a soft little
package which proved to be a sponge, which he had bought on his own initiative, and which he
tendered to Irene.  She took it with slowly rising color, and with a strange misgiving whether
this was a bona fide contribution to the toilet equipment of the house, or a quiet satire designed
to offset the effect of the appeal for soap.

The following day it was decided that the automobile, which since the accident had lain upturned
by the roadway, should be brought to the ranch buildings.  Dave harnessed his team, and, instead
of riding one of the horses, walked behind, driving by the reins, and accompanied by the girl,
who had proclaimed her ability to steer the car.  When they reached the stream she hesitated,
remembering her mishap, but the boy slipped his unoccupied hand firmly under her arm, and they
walked the log in safety.  It seemed to Irene that he continued his assistance when it was
no longer needed, but she accepted the courtesy without remark.

With the aid of the team and Dave's lariat the car was soon righted, and was found to be none
the worse for its deflection from the beaten track.  Irene presided at the steering wheel,
watching the road with great intentness, and turning the wheel too far on each occasion, which
gave to her course a somewhat wavy or undulating order, such as is found in bread knives, or
perhaps a better figure would be to compare it to that rolling motion affected by fancy skaters.
However, the mean of her direction corresponded with the mean of the trail, and all went merrily
until the stream was approached.  Here was a rather steep descent, and the car showed a sudden
purpose to engage the horses in a contest of speed.  The animals were suspicious enough at
best of their strange wagon, and had no thought of allowing it to assume the initiative.  Now,
Irene knew perfectly well where the brake was, and how to use it.  In fact, there were two
brakes, operated by different members, and perhaps it was this duplication, intended to insure
safety, that was responsible for her undoing.  Her first impulse was to use the emergency,
but to do so she must remove her hand from the steering wheel, where it was very fully occupied.
She did start to put this impulse into effect, but an unusually violent deflection caused her
to reconsider that intention.  She determined to use the foot brake, a feat which was accomplished,
under normal conditions, by pressing one foot firmly against a contraption somewhere beneath
the steering post.  She shot a quick glance downward, and to her alarm discovered not one,
but three contraptions, all apparently designed to receive the pressure of a foot--if one could
reach them--and as similar as the steps of a stair.  This involved a further hesitation, and
in automobiling he who hesitates invites a series of rapid experiences. By this time all Irene's
attention was required to bring the car to some unanimity of direction.  It was quite evident
that it was running away.  It was quite evident that the horses were running away.  The situation
assumed the qualities of a race, and the only matter of grave doubt related to its termination.
Dave, still holding fast to the reins, ran beside the car with prodigious strides which enabled
him to bring but little restraint upon the team, and Irene held to the steering wheel with
a grip of desperation.

Then they struck the water.  It was not more than two feet deep, but the extra resistance it
caused, and the extra alarm it excited in the horses, resulted in the breaking of the lariat.
Dave still clung fast to his team, and, now that the terrifying rival no longer pursued them,
they were soon brought to a standstill.  Having pacified them he tied them to a post and returned
to the stream.  The car sat in the middle; the girl had put her feet on the seat beside her,
and the swift water flowed by a few inches below.  She was laughing merrily when Dave, very
wet in parts, appeared on the bank.

"Well, I'm not wet, except for a little splashing," she said, "and you are.  Does anything
occur to you?"  Without reply he walked stolidly into the cold water, took her in his arms,
and carried her ashore.  The lariat was soon repaired and the car hauled to the ranch buildings
without further mishap.

Later in the day he said to her, "Can you ride?"

"Some," she answered.  "I have ridden city horses, but don't know about these ranch animals.
You know, a city horse has to do as he is told, but a ranch horse seems to do pretty much as
he likes.  But I would like to try--if I had a saddle."

"I have an extra saddle," he said.  "But it's a man's. . . .  They all ride that way here."

She made no answer, and the subject was dropped for the time.  But the next morning she saw
Dave ride away, leading a horse by his side.  He did not return until evening, but when he
came the idle horse carried a saddle.

"It's a strad-legger," he said when he drew up beside Irene, "but it's a girl's.  I couldn't
find anythin' else in the whole diggin's."

"I'm sure it will do--splendidly--if I can just stick on," she replied. But another problem
was already in her mind.  It apparently had not occurred to Dave that women require special
clothing for riding, especially if it's a "strad-legger."  She opened her lips to mention this,
then closed them again.  He had been to enough trouble on her account.  He had already spent
a whole day scouring the country for a saddle. . . .  She would manage some way.

Late that night she was busy with scissors and needle.

CHAPTER THREE

Dr. Hardy recovered from his injuries as rapidly as could be expected, and, while he chafed
somewhat over spending his holidays under such circumstances, the time passed not unhappily.
Had he sought the world over for a haven from the intrusion of business or professional cares
he could have found it nowhere in greater perfection than in the foothill country centering
about the Elden ranch.  Here was an Arcadia where one might well return to the simple life;
a little bay of still water sheltered from the onrushing tide of affairs by the warm brown
prairies and the white-bosomed mountains towering through their draperies of blue-purple mist.
It was life as far removed from his accustomed circles as if he had been suddenly spirited
to a different planet.  It was life without the contact of life, without the crowd and jostle
and haste and gaiety and despair that are called life; but the doctor wondered if, after all,
it did not come nearer to filling the measure of experience--which is life.

A considerable acquaintanceship had sprung up between him and the senior Elden.  The rancher
had come from the East forty years before, but in turning over their memories the two men found
many links of association; third persons known to them both; places, even streets and houses
common to their feet in early manhood; events of local history which each could recall, although
from different angles.  And Elden's life in the West had been a treasury of experience, in
which he now dipped for the first time in years, regaling his guest with tales of the open
range long before barbed wire had stuck its poisoned fang into the heart of the ranchman; tales
of horse-stealing and cattle-rustling, with glimpses of sudden justice unrecorded in the official
documents of the territory; of whiskey-running and excess and all those large adventures that
drink the red blood of the wilderness.  In his grizzled head and stooping frame he carried
more experiences than would fill a dozen well-rounded city lives, and he had the story-teller's
art which scorns to spoil dramatic effect by a too strict adherence to fact.  But over one
phase of his life he kept the curtain resolutely down.  No ray of conversation would he admit
into the more personal affairs of his heart, or of the woman who had been his wife, and even
when the talk turned on the boy he quickly withdrew it to another topic, as though the subject
were dangerous or distasteful.  But once, after a long silence following such a diversion,
had he betrayed himself into a whispered remark, an outburst of feeling rather than a communication.
"I've been alone so much," he said.  "It seems I have never been anything but alone.  And--sooner
or later--it gets you--it gets you."

"You have the boy," ventured the doctor.

