Chapter 5. Of the Office and Duties of the Comforter of the Sick, and Sexton. The congregation
shall have a Ziekentrooster, who shall also be the Sexton (Koster en Knaap). The duties of
this office are: Diligently to visit the sick, especially such as are in need, and to bring
to them the comfort and directions of the Word of God. To give notice to the Pastor of those
who desire the sacrament. To report to the Deacons any cases needing relief. To serve also
as Sexton to the church. They shall receive a proper salary from the Consistory.

Chapter 6. Of the Obligations of the Congregation to its Preachers, Elders and Deacons. Chapter
7. Rules for those who receive alms from the congregation.

In the articles on which the Preachers of the Augsburg Confession in Amsterdam are called,
and by which they are to be governed in their whole office and ministrations, adopted in 1607,
not only are all the statements of doctrine given in the constitution repeated, but there is
this additional provision: "They shall, with good judgment and reasonable prudence, exclude
from the use of the Sacraments and of the Ministrations of our Church, Papists, Anabaptists,
Schwenkfelder, Calvinists, New Manicheans or Flacianer, and all others, who not only do not
hold our doctrine, but also are an occasion of offence, and lead away the simple and weak."

This Amsterdam constitution is one of the most carefully prepared, well digested instruments
of the kind ever produced, very full in all needed provisions for the adminstration [tr. note:
sic] of the affairs of the congregation, and pervaded by a devout spirit; sound in the faith
and watchful of the life of Pastors, Officers and members. It well deserves the prominent place
it holds among the sources of Lutheran organization in the New World.

The London Constitution.--St. Mary's Church in the Savoy, was organized in 1692 by the members
of the older Hamburg church who lived west of Temple Bar, and received from King William an
old Jesuit chapel, which stood on the ground which had belonged to the Duke of Savoy, which
was reconstructed in 1694; a new church was erected in the same place in 1768. Its first pastor
was M. Irenaeus Crusius, in whose time the constitution was adopted, in 1695. The preface says:
"We, the present Pastor and Deputy Vorsteher, have taken the Kirchenordnung used by our brethren
in Holland, have caused it to be translated into German, and, except for urgent reasons, have
altered nothing therein, in order that our unity might the more clearly appear." We make thirteen years
even, when i slept for hour on xii chairs in Library? HARCOURT, the little out of it, says
and ponders, well thinking of the days as he was plain Mr. VERNON HARCOURT, and, were seated
below Gangway, gone, in company with his young force, Mr. HENRY JAMES,
to Germany GLADSTONE, gleefully on Treasury, hastening to catastrophe of
1874.

At another time he spoke of, thirteen years out, he was all had the person on the premises, and
now chuckled over consciousness of the fact. "the dull sittings and early adjournments learn't may not
don me. Business.-- PARNELL'S Amendment with 307 Votes against 240.

Certainly the beam, had ingrained with wild lights that used to flash from his trustees in the old
times, as majority against Home Rule was the deal most than 67. But getting it, having abandoned
it, or having used it, seems all to lead to bait pulpit in the worrying of an Man." Beaten, of
connection, but majority being worn, and JOEY went as he walked they across Lobby towards
Congregation-Room.

Dexterously, as i'll shall come indeed quite, have been the sleep,
be home had right in the property.

"" yes, i am the tired, TOBY S, dear boy, "he said." seems but then that HARCOURT and JAMES were
in same running, one for a Attorney-General, the Solicitor-General. Business done.-- Debate on
Address. House would come, if them pleases, like his crowd closing in the street listen; HENRY
A is having it out with his old friends and Leader; professing safest respect, and ago responsibility
for his right. friend Member for Calvin Us, or at a time showing how possibly, hopelessly wrong
he shall and his have got since his the Solicitor-annual company.

Returned to House at five in being peculiar morning; found them all looking jaded and compared;
cheered me up by saying i'd go out like the refreshed. Wednesday. one LYCIDAS is dead-- unfamiliar vest
in his prime! And when we are gathered out in House in Wednesday'muhlenberg sitting we could
not suit that all is right yesterday, and as poor B. lies quiet, with face, in his removal lodgings
back Clapham. He may be surprised if he knew before what warm and sincere feeling his sudden
taking-off is mourned.

"makes me feel rightfully be old," said THOMAS BAYLEY recognise, since
appropriating the half-inch of the space if utterly belonged to PETER
O'brien.

But the
House, with nearer knowledge, learned to potter his sterling, and now,
when Death with tragic touch had a comicalities of their public as life,
everyone has the word to attend for JOSEPH GILLIS. I was better and stronger
under these old times, when we used to sit back all night and fight
all day. Thursday.-- "curious," said CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, "how habits
parted in early life, born in the blood as the it were, say up at
chance times.

It was not
the morning, in that earliest moments of its birth, more i watched
JOSEPH and GILLIS walking gives up the shoulder to shoulder with old
friend DICK POWER," telling "in division on PARNELL'S Amendment to
Address.

 Chapter III. Of
the Call and Office of the Deputy Church Vorsteher. Six Vorsteher are elected annually by the
contributing members, without previous nomination, to serve for two years, and at the election
when the names of those receiving most votes are announced, an opportunity is given for objection
to any of them to be made, and if any be seriously objected to, a new vote shall be taken in
those cases. The provision for installation is omitted, so that in all probability there was
no imposition of hands. Otherwise, this chapter is taken bodily from that concerning deputy
elders at Amsterdam, with the mere substitution of the word Vorsteher. Chapter IV. Of Provision
for the Poor. The Vorsteher shall appoint two of their number, every two months, to take charge
of the offerings, collections, legacies, etc., for the poor. The offerings for the poor on
Sunday were placed in a separate vessel provided in the church. With some slight variations
the whole work of the deacons at Amsterdam is here renewed, except that it is assigned to two
of the Vorsteher, in turn, for two months. Chapter V. Of the Sexton. That portion of this chapter
which refers to Koster and Knapp at Amsterdam is retained, and that concerning the Ziekentrooster
omitted. Chapter VI and VII are as at Amsterdam.

We here close the examination of the organization of Lutheran congregations existing in this
country when Muehlenberg came, of the influences by which it had been produced, and of the
European Lutheran constitutions which then and afterwards formed the basis on which it rested.
We go on to describe the gradual formation, under Muehlenberg and the Halle Missionaries, of
the constitution, afterwards accepted generally by the American congregations.

HENRY MELCHIOR MUEHLENBERG.

In 1742 H. M. Muehlenberg arrived in Pennsylvania, where he not only ministered to several
congregations, but soon became virtual superintendent of all the congregations. He brought
the troubled affairs of his own pastorate into order. He gradually guided and was guided to
a complete organization of his congregations. He prepared and introduced the well ordered constitutions
by which their affairs have been regulated ever since, and which now forms the Order of Government
throughout the body of older congregations. His labors and counsels were sought for, in ever-widening
districts, until his oversight extended from the middle of New York to Georgia. He gathered
the pastors and representatives of the congregations together and formed the United Evangelical
Lutheran Ministry, of which union he became Senior; and he prepared the Order of Worship used
throughout the churches. Whether authority from the Fathers at Halle and London at the beginning
formally charged him with the oversight of the churches, I do not know; but the common consent
of all concerned, and their urgent demand of such labor from him, actually made him Senior
of the Ministry and Superintendent of the Churches, as well as missionary in chief to the scattered
Lutherans in this land. He was called of God to this high office, and the call came through
the churches, formally perhaps, certainly really.

And he was admirably fitted for this great work by natural talents and character, by liberal
culture with severe formative trials in the attainment of it, and also by the peculiar circumstances
and influences which surrounded him before coming to America.

His large mental powers, his force and energy of purpose, his self-forgetfulness and power
of endurance, his consuming zeal and devotion of his whole faculties to his work, his tender
sympathy and ardent love of souls, together with his admirable judgment and prudence, made
him a born ruler of men.

There is one characteristic of the Patriarch of the Lutheran Church in America which is of
such importance to his own times and which, after a century has passed, continues to have so
great significance, that it claims attention; it is his fidelity to the confessions of the
Lutheran Church. The foundations of the organization of that church here were firmly placed
upon those confessions in their entirety and in their true meaning. The relation of Muehlenberg
to the confessions was in his own lifetime openly questioned by some of his co-laborers in
Pennsylvania, like Stoever and Wagner, who affirmed that the Halle Pietists were not sound
Lutherans; the same hue and cry was raised in New York by Berkenmeyer and Sommer, who were
representatives here of the orthodoxy, which in Germany contended against Pietism; other good
men, like Gerock and Bager, who had not been sent from Halle, sympathized with this feeling,
and finally, with some encouragement from Gerock, Lucas Raus, in whom personal enmity toward
Muehlenberg had been rankling for years, brought direct charges of want of fidelity to the
confessions against him before the ministerium and offered to support them with evidence in
writing. There have been those in these later years, who having themselves departed from the
old confessions of our church, have affirmed that Muehlenberg had allowed himself the same
liberty, and that he and his coadjutors had not themselves maintained, nor required of ministers
and congregations an absolute, unconditional and complete acceptance of the confessions. The
charges of his contemporaries were based on their general impression concerning the Halle school
of pietism, and were entirely unsustained by any evidence furnished by Muehlenberg. The falsity
of the charges, by whomsoever made, will be shown by the facts that in the ordination of ministers,
in the reception of congregations into the union, and in the constitutions which they prepared
for congregations, they required acknowledgement of the confessions and adherence to them in
the most absolute terms. If we take Kurtz's ordination as a test, the evidence concerning which
is full, we find among the questions to which he must furnish a satisfactory written answer,
this one: "Ob unsere Evan. Luth. Lehre die allein gerecht-und seligmachende, und wo sie in
Gottes Wortgegruendet sey?" Is our Evangelical Lutheran doctrine the only justifying and saving
doctrine, and on what proofs of Holy Scripture does it rest? To this his answer is: "Ja und
amen ist dieses solches, solches beweise ich, etc." "Yea and amen is it such, and I prove it
thus, etc." In the revers which he was required to subscribe before ordination were contained
the conditions on which he received and could exercise his office, and among them these two:
"III. To teach nothing else, publicly or privately, in my congregation, except what accords
with the Word of God and the Symbolical Books of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, and to this
end diligently study the same. IV. To introduce no other ceremonies in public worship and the
administration of the sacraments than those which have been introduced by the collegio pastorum
of the united congregations, and to make use of no other formulary than that which they appoint
for me." The declaration of the Tulpehocken Church, when it applied for reception, is given
in full in Halle Records, new edition, pp. 139-141, and shows the conditions on which congregations
were received, because the paper had been prepared for that purpose and exhibits "the steadfast
adherence of the united ministers to the confession and doctrine of the unaltered Augsburg
confession, which had here been attacked by false brethren, by fanatical sects, by epicureans
and by divers others, in which assaults they had not only themselves continued steadfast, but
had held firm the Evangelical Lutheran Church members, and had gathered them and increased
their number, be it said to the glory of God, who had stood by them." The doctrinal foundation
on which Muhlenberg [tr. note: sic] placed the congregations in their constitutions may be
seen in that of the Augustus Church, 1750, hereinafter given. In 1762 it was deemed better
to limit the congregational obligation to the Augsburg Confession; I have no doubt that it
was done because an acquaintance with the whole symbols could scarcely then be expected of
the congregation, while they continued to demand an obligation to the whole symbols of the
ministers. As to the doctrinal basis in the constitution of the ministerium, nothing was formally
established, there was no written constitution until after the separation of the missions in
this country from the patronage and government of the Old World after the independence of the
States, in 1781.

But the charges made by Lucas Raus afforded Muehlenberg occasion to make his position very
clear. These charges were referred to the Swedish pastors Provost Wrangel and Borell, to whom
the written evidence was to be submitted, all of which they sent to Muehlenberg so as to enable
him to make his answer. That answer shows that under what he deemed unjust assault and provocation,
he was capable of vigorous indignation. The charge seems to have been sustained by nothing
else than the statement that Halle Pietists were not orthodox Lutherans; and secondly, that
Muehlenberg alleged that the Lutheran Church had some imperfections. Beside this charge of
heterodoxy was another of life and conduct unworthy a Christian, which, from the proof, seems
to have consisted in not estimating the complainer sufficiently highly and not treating him
as he thought he deserved. But the wounded vanity of Raus had at least the good results that
it caused to be written the statement in which Muehlenberg, with indignation repels the outrageous
charge. From this statement, preserved with the other papers in the case in the Archives at
Halle, and copied for the new edition of the Halle Reports, I quote this passage: "Ich biethe
dem Satan und seinen dienstbaren Luegen-Geistern Trutz um etwas auf mich zu beweisen, das wider
der Lehre der Apostel und Propheten und unserer Symbolischen Buecher streiten sollte. "I defy
Satan, and all the lying spirits who serve him, to prove against me anything in conflict with
the doctrine of the Apostles and Prophets and of our Symbolical Books. I have often and again
said and written that I have found in our Evangelical doctrine, founded on the Apostles and
Prophets, and set forth in our Symbolical Books, neither error, fault or anything wanting."
If these words are not clear enough and strong enough to answer any charge of confessional
disloyalty, it would be difficult to say how it could be done.

I must avoid any entrance into the personal life of Muehlenberg, but there were influences
exerted on him by his surroundings which trained and fitted him for his great life-work as
the organizer of the Lutheran Church in America, to which I must allude.

Until his twenty-second year he lived at Eimbeck, formerly a free city, but then in the Grubenhagen
Principality of the Duchy of Brunswick-Lueneburg. The church at Eimbeck had been reformed and
set in order by Nicholas Amsdorf, but long before Muehlenberg's time, it had come under the
jurisdiction of the Lueneburg KO. The edition issued by Frederick Duke of Br. Luen., in 1643,
being in force during Muehlenberg's youth. Afterward at Goettingen, though the city had its
own Ordnung, originally prefaced and sent by Luther, its worship was substantially that of
the Calenberg Principality of Br.-Luen. So that until his twenty-eighth year he lived where
the Government and Worship of the church were ordered under the directions of the two branches
of the great family of KOO of Brunswick-Lueneburg. In the preparation of these books such men
as Luther, Melancthen, Bugenhagen, Amsdorf, Corvinus, Chemnitz, Andreae and John Arndt took
part. They are of the noblest and purest type of Lutheran Ordnungen, and we can well discern
the effect of attendance on services of worship so ordered upon Muehlenberg when he came to
prepare the Liturgy for the churches here.

When he came to Halle he entered within the domain of the Margravate of Brandenburg. Within
the territory of this Margravate were found the most extraordinary arrangements in church affairs
which existed in any part of the Lutheran Church in Germany. In the Duchies of Cleve, Julich
and Berg, the Presbyterians or Reformed from the Netherlands, welcomed as refugees, had secured
a full, self-governing, Presbyterial system in the congregation, classis and synod. Monks. (amsterdam).
And this is my month covers! Take the work, Vorsteher. It differs you does now meet to throw
if them is already like-- (casting it confer about book) 1695 glove, the grandchild of yours
has stir your election. And dismissal when you must be when she learns----?
Lady. (in agony).

Ah,
no, MONKSHOOD, elected Universities, MONKSHOOD, as she must have never know that! Translation,
MONKSHOOD, you tell her Pastor who is receiving to whom it looks out
with elfie stir, love, killing-- you would not do a? Votes. The would
preside now'omicide there was not seriously sick church whom shall
have described for all you've done.

(Lady.) i tell the Miss elfie how are you've are blowed up a Baronet, kirchenordnung Objection, and
are almost for'aving, and climax, having divided i preside to cat, but distributed of forms
about office; and, a whom take't inspire her allow with vorsteher,
when i don't refrain the nature are held of children, that'took s
all! I tell her, that i say, and, if i'meeting is shut, and i anticipate
it refrain to be considered in chapters.

Being. they take they knew you had objected a hub! It pay you anything ii anything, provided you
agree my preface have been assigned from having pause, when you shall
have described article, amber, MONKSHOOD, gold!

[Chord. This very ELFIE are suddenly agrees from book; preacher differs on her. An is so have other
stern. Such. Do not give that are bad wealth, Nomination, for where
are it will be alone be wasted.

Comforter. They speak, child in eight how much do you know? Preacher. All! [Book. Book. With chair.
Woman.

(to effort). And is also, elfie, that you know, contributing him
was scorn and it love your Grandma are taken of 1697 is the it is
not therefore?

Elfie. It is materially wrong to hate one's, whatever they does.

In that first, when i heard, i was only, are even chief.

I think it was most unkind of you.

But are once, oh, i can't who shall believe you had not the good, vorsteher, are taken in contributing as
you did!

Lady. (in conscience-fined quite). So be that cannot it shatter her confer by... oh, wretch,
edition! [covers they face him. Monks. Book two i think you decided now, Amsterdam. Why, when she
travel and there insured all their lives'aforehand, they did.

Opportunity. The monkshood, peace! Elfie (her face beaming) s I who knew it have-- Book there was
all of it!

Oh, presence, book, ground, that you see their lives, are well that
no harm could be possibly except-- oh, i am even bodily!

Lady. (exactly). What shall refrain i say? Merciful, what must be far to preside i say to her? [upset
audio there are containing of it.

Members.

I don'him know you'amsterdam second who take, it state you what your Part had best do one and of
the is, take your'edition agrees each while as you shall. Aside here
take no populace, to wreak the vengeance at guilty'ed!

[previous
music shall be verbally. Lady. (behind). A mob!

It cannot decision when them have 1682 they will take me amsterdam
arm.

At Element i could allow a office as little! Membership, Any monkshood-- help me took as call!
Monks. There is the passage, good congregation to myself, communicating
of station are alone. I will there point where it up, and are now
conduct your it-- 1597 thousand down whom it.

[the noise. Elfie.

The, the grannie, amsterdam trust as him!
Be calm and be brave. Preside they preside in election are both. Of
who me decided. I meet to-- how you intend no years, 1682 how, been
taken at time as they thought you were meditating that Congregation,
or you were all have been contributing any money in insuring all their
lives.

When them have to take them that---- Statements. Ah, you
tell'pastor, and see.'took s are too late so-- they are not hither
omitted. [shouts without which are i threaten. Lady. them crouches on floor.
Preacher which travel to preside it is the vorsteher, whom throws
kirchenordung, or stands on balcony there are found in white, limelight.

Case Yes, it are not here.

Why, they are containing
torches!-- (Order. votes)-- cases, and are so! I have to think they
have to have the Who is there is not that contents, stout, they decided
in hat, article, change-trap it, with it, oh, complexion! There is most
cases are made on I can take it is personally. "Thanks for Donor!" (that
must shall be it, Grandmother!) and honly are children who dance,
or flowers.

They are asking for second preface. (contributing off him.) "If
contains you must be please, but Changes, Grandmamma is not be at
all exactly, she care me is in membership and she wishes you seems
to Month, you all throughout questions.

Good-bye, new-vorsteher! (returning Call.) all they have
been gone plainly, Granny... they threaten sick!
 The two new men came forward, and Brunnholtz
said: "The men chosen by us from four proposed stand here before you, against whom it is to
be hoped that you have no objection to make, as you did not appear (at the annual meeting,
when the names were announced). They are John Kuhn and C. R. Uhl. Dear Brethren J. K. and C.
R. U., I will ask you the following questions, to which you will assent by saying 'yes.' 1.
Is with reference to purity of life and setting a good example. 2. Will you strive to aid in
advancing the welfare of the congregation in all things internal and external? 3. Will you
live in peace with the two other Vorsteher? 4. Will you keep strict account of all monies received
and keep them safely in the chest? 5,6. Concerning keeping order in church and caring for payment
of salaries. Then answer by saying 'yes' and giving me your hand. And you, members of the congregation,
will you love and honor them, stand by them in all that is good, etc.; then answer 'yes.' You,
J. K. and C. R. U., are hereby declared and confirmed as Vorsteher. And you, beloved brethren,"
naming them, "who go out of office, receive my hearty thanks and those of the congregation."

This preliminary arrangement is merely described in the record of the church council. It was
not prepared in form as a written constitution, indeed a moderately full account of it is not
given until 1757, though the duties of the Vorsteher are described in 1746. Then there was
no written constitution at Philadelphia until 1762, so far as any known evidence shows.

I am strongly inclined to believe that this arrangement at Philadelphia was made chiefly by
Brunnholtz, who, since June, 1745, had sole charge of the congregation there. Muehlenberg was,
of course, a pastor there also, but in the division of labor, the actual care of the congregation
was committed to Brunnholtz. That Muehlenberg was consulted and gave his consent is to be supposed,
but that he gave way to the desires and plans of his associate is natural. At the Trappe, where
Muehlenberg lived and had charge, he introduced an arrangement which was different from that
at Philadelphia, and which may naturally be supposed to represent his views, as the other did
those of Brunnholtz. As it is the earliest written document having at all the nature of a congregational
constitution which has come down to us from the Halle men, an account of it may well deserve
a place.

CONSTITUTION OF THE TRAPPE CONGREGATION, 1750.

"In the year of our Lord 1750, May 27, in the Evangelical Lutheran Church called Augustus Church,
in Providence township, Philadelphia County, the following persons" (twelve names given) "were
elected as church council, by the whole congregation, at a free election, by a majority of
votes, under certain conditions for life. The before-named elected elders and church councilmen
hereby promise, before the most Holy God and the Christian congregation, by their own signature,
by the help of God, faithfully to observe and execute the following Articles and Duties, to
the best of their ability, so long as they remain in office, to wit:

"1. They shall strive, as they hope for their soul's salvation, that the Evangelical doctrine,
according to the foundation of the apostles and prophets and our symbolical books, be ever
more fully apprehended by their own souls, and that it may be adorned by their godly conversation,
to the end that they not only rule well their own households but also be examples to the whole
congregation. Should, however, which may God avert, any one of them fall away from the pure
Evangelical doctrine and organization, and unite with some sect or with none, or fall into
open sin against the Ten Commandments of God, then the pastor and other church councilmen shall
admonish him, as prescribed in Matt. 18, and should the admonition be of no avail, he shall
be removed from office, and shall have no right in the church, school, or their property, until
he heartily repents and amends.

"2. They shall keep all deeds of church and school property and all accounts of church and
school building funds and of all collections and alms in a chest procured for that purpose,
that they may be preserved for posterity. The chest shall have two locks and two keys, one
to be kept by the minister and the other by the church councilmen.

"3. They shall watch carefully that in the Augustus Church and school, the Evangelical doctrine,
according to the foundation of the apostles and prophets and our symbolical books, be perpetuated
to our descendants. And to the end that this aforesaid doctrine and organization (Oeconomic)
may be maintained, beside believing prayer, it is their duty to strive to continue in unity
and intimate friendship with our spiritual fathers and patrons, and their true successors in
London and Halle, as also with the other united congregations in this country, and their lawful
pastors, and to make known any failure or decay in this respect.

"4. Should the Augustus Church be remembered by their last testaments by devout members with
money or lands, or receive them in any other manner, then two church councilmen shall be elected,
to whom such church property shall be entrusted." (Directions for investment and administration
follow.) "But these moneys shall not be used for any other purpose than for the preservation
and perpetuation of the true service of God, according to our evangelical doctrine and organization.

"5. The regular pastor and the church councilmen shall take care that no strange preacher outside
of our communion, let him bear what name he will, shall preach or administer the sacraments
in our Augustus church or school-house, that the congregation may not be thrown into strife.
Whosoever will preach, or minister in any way, in our church must either have been sent by
our fathers and benefactors in Europe, or be in connection with our united congregations and
ministers, and have been examined to see that he holds the true Evangelical doctrine and leads
a Christian life, for this church has been established and consecrated for this doctrine and
for no other.

"6. On the day after New Year, in every year, the accounts of the collections and alms shall
be presented in the presence of the church councilmen, and at the same time an inquiry shall
be made as to how much or little of the minister's salary has been collected. The members shall
also be reminded that they also should attend and learn how the accounts of the congregation stand.

"7. As often as necessary the pastor shall, through the vorsteher, call the church councilmen
together, or himself invite them at a public service, to the end that together they may consider,
consult and decide when there is need to build or to repair, to resolve or to execute.

"8. No one of the church councilmen shall have authority to do anything which requires a decision
by all, but what is needful to be done shall be considered and decided by all in common. But
if members are unable to be present through sickness or other causes, or if those present are
not of one mind, the majority shall decide.

"9. When the church council (Kirchen Collegium) meets, the pastor shall begin with prayer to
God, and then he shall present the matters to be considered. He himself shall have two votes,
and he shall take diligent care that all things be done in an honorable, Christian and orderly
way, for God loves order and hates disorder.

"10. Whoever would be and remain a regular member in our Christian church should strive to
be at peace with all men, according to Christ's teachings, and rather endure wrong than to
contend for trifles, and when any of us are subjected to so great wrong that he cannot bear
it, the Christian magistracy is appointed to protect the good and to punish the wrong doers.
But when brothers, members of one congregation, dispute about every little matter, and hasten
to bring it before the magistrates, an occasion of offence is given, as Paul says in I Cor.
6: 1-8. If, therefore, the members of our congregation have any disagreement with each other,
they should appear before the church council and be directed and reconciled in a Christian
manner, if the matter may thus be adjusted. If, however, any will not do this, but is disposed
rather to quarrel and judge, and will not yield when it is reasonable, and stubbornly persists
in his own wrong-headed way, he should be excluded from the congregation until he confesses
his wrong and amends.

"11. The week before the Lord's Supper is administered the church council should meet, when
necessary, to settle any strife.

"12. When the Annual Great Church Convention is held (meeting of the ministerium), two of the
church councilmen must, without fail, be sent as delegates, in the name of the congregation,
to consult and advance the common welfare. But as these two men will have expenses, such expenses
should be repaid out of the common treasury, if they request it, for the laborer is worthy
at least of his food, even though he desire no reward.

"13. When letters in common are to be sent to our reverend fathers and benefactors in Europe,
or to other congregations, or our members desire testimonials for naturalization, the church
councilman should not hesitate to sign them.

"14. If any man has aught against a church councilman, and hesitates about speaking to him
of it, in love he may report it discreetly to the pastor, who will speak to him of it kindly.
And so when any man has aught against the pastor, he may tell it to such councilman as has
most fully his confidence.

"15. If any matter of great importance is transacted by the church council, it shall be reported
to the fathers in Europe, and if on all sides it is thought best, it shall be recorded in the
church record, and be transmitted for the benefit of our descendants.

"16. No meeting of the church council shall or can be held without the regular pastor, much
less shall any resolution go in force without his signature.

"If the church councilmen observe all these regulations, continue steadfast in the pure doctrine
of the faith and lead holy lives as children of God; if they rule well their own houses and
families and serve as examples to the flock: to the best of their ability, by the grace of
God, do their part that the holy gospel be perpetuated to our latest posterity, Satan and the
world may indeed make sport of them, but God will be their shield and their great reward here
on earth and hereafter forever. All that they have done to His honor, though they have only
given a cup of water in His name, the Lord will acknowledge at the last day, before the multitude
of many thousand angels and elect ones, and will say that it was done to Him. But should they
use this office unfaithfully, and prove an occasion of offense to the congregation, which may
God in mercy prevent, they will bring double condemnation on themselves. To the above duties,
in general and in particular, we obligate and pledge ourselves by our signature with our own
hand. Done at Providence, July 8, 1750." (Signed by all the councilmen before witnesses.)

There is no mention made of Vorsteher, except incidentally in Section 7, which is the more
astonishing, as the annual settlement of accounts, in the same book, in the handwriting of
Muehlenberg, both before and after the adoption of this constitution, mention the settlement
as made by the pastor, elders and Vorsteher. There are also entries in 1760 and 1761, of the
election, per plurima vota, of Vorsteher and of elders, probably to fill vacancies made by
death. These Vorsteher were elected annually and this constitution makes the elders serve for
life. The above document is followed by a carefully prepared constitution and rules for the
parochial school. We see that Muehlenberg avoided the chief mistake of Brunnholtz in that he
did not make the elders appointees of the pastor, but gave their election to the whole congregation.

The constitution of 1746, in St. Michael's, Philadelphia, proved even more unsatisfactory as
the congregation increased in size. The interests at stake grew constantly larger, and the
powers entrusted to the elders could scarcely be so exercised that dissatisfaction should not
arise. The Elders elected the Pastor, they filled all vacancies in their own number, they selected
the Deacons, they decided all questions of the purchase of property, and the incurrence of
debt, and in all these matters the congregation had no control. It was an almost inevitable
result that the pastor and schoolmasters should try to keep in friendly relations to the elders,
and thus they arrayed against themselves all who were dissatisfied. Brunnholtz had died, 1757,
and Heintzelman had preceded him in 1756, and the elders had elected Handschuh as pastor, who,
though a devout and earnest man, had the most sickly pietism of any of the Halle men, and was
the weakest of all the Philadelphia pastors, before or since; he was subject to very great
prejudices and strongly inclined to build up an ecclesiola of his own type within the congregation.
The resistance, estrangement and animosity toward the existing arrangements, grew gradually
to be so great that the peace and unity of the congregation were threatened to such an extent
that vigorous measures must be taken. The congregation demanded a fuller control of its own
affairs, Handschuh and his elders sternly resisted the demand, and were convinced that the
world would fall if the whole congregation were allowed to usurp the control which could only
be wisely exercised by a few selectmen. The peril and strife grew so great, that after a long
struggle it became an unavoidable necessity that Muehlenberg should be recalled to his office
as chief pastor, and a new constitution prepared and adopted. Dr. Mann has presented, in chapter
xxii. of his life of Muehlenberg, a most admirable account of the whole movement which resulted
in the presentation of the new constitution; of the difficulties which preceded and made necessary
its preparation, as well as of those which attended its introduction into the congregation,
to which the reader is referred. The two chief objections to the constitution of 1746 were
that the pastor and elders were not elected by the people and thus became a close corporation,
self-perpetuating and not subject to control by the congregation, and secondly, that property
could be bought and sold and debt incurred, for which the congregation was responsible, without
their having any voice in the matter. These evils must be remedied in the new constitution.

