JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF APPEAL OF NEW ZEALAND ON PROCEEDINGS TO REVIEW ASPECTS OF THE REPORT
OF THE ROYAL COMMISSION OF INQUIRY INTO THE MOUNT EREBUS AIRCRAFT DISASTER

C.A. 95/81

In the Court of Appeal of New Zealand--Between Air New Zealand Limited, First Applicant, and
Morrison Ritchie Davis, Second Applicant, and Ian Harding Gemmell, Third Applicant, and Peter
Thomas Mahon, First Respondent, and the Attorney-General, Fourth Respondent, and New Zealand
Airline Pilots Association, Fifth Respondent, and the Attorney-General, Sixth Respondent.

Coram

Woodhouse P. Cooke J. Richardson J. McMullin J. Somers J.

Hearing

5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 October 1981.

Counsel

L.W. Brown Q.C. and R.J. McGrane for first and second applicants.

D.A.R. Williams and L.L. Stevens for third applicant.

G.P. Barton and R.S. Chambers for first respondent.

C.J. McGuire for fourth respondent (Civil Aviation Division)--leave to withdraw.

A.F. MacAlister and P.J. Davison for fifth respondent.

W.D. Baragwanath and G.M. Harrison for sixth respondent.

Judgment

22nd December 1981.

JUDGMENT OF COOKE, RICHARDSON and SOMERS JJ.

On 5 August 1981, for reasons then given, this Court ordered that these proceedings be removed
as a whole from the High Court to this Court for hearing and determination. They are proceedings,
brought by way of application for judicial review, in which certain parts of the report of
the Royal Commission on the Mount Erebus aircraft disaster are attacked. In summary the applicants
claim that these parts are contrary to law, in excess of jurisdiction and in breach of natural
justice.

One of the reasons for ordering the removal was that it was important that the complaints be
finally adjudicated on as soon as reasonably practicable. We had in mind that the magnitude
of the disaster--257 lives were lost--made it a national and indeed international tragedy,
so the early resolution of any doubts as to the validity of the report was a matter of great
public concern. Also the report contained very severe criticism of certain senior officers
of Air New Zealand. Naturally this criticism must have been having damaging and continuing
effects, as evidenced for instance by the resignation of the chief executive, so it was right
that the airline and the individuals should have at a reasonably early date a definite decision,
one way or the other, on whether their complaints were justified.

In the event the hearing in this Court was completed in less than six days. We had envisaged
that some further days might be required for cross-examination, as there were applications
for leave to cross-examine the airline personnel and the Royal Commissioner himself on affidavits
that they had made in the proceedings. But ultimately the parties elected to have no cross-examination--and
it should be made clear that this was by agreement reached between the parties, not by decision
of the Court. With the benefit of the very full written and oral arguments submitted by counsel,
the Court is now in a position to given judgment before the end of the year.

We must begin by removing any possible misconception about the scope of these proceedings.
They are not proceedings in which this Court can adjudicate on the causes of the disaster.
The question of causation is obviously a difficult one, as shown by the fact that the Commissioner
and the Chief Inspector of Air Accidents in his report came to different conclusions on it.
But it is not this Court's concern now. This is not an appeal. Parties to hearings by Commissions
of Inquiry have no rights of appeal against the reports. The reason is partly that the reports
are, in a sense, inevitably inconclusive. Findings made by Commissioners are in the end only
expressions of opinion. They would not even be admissible in evidence in legal proceedings
as to the cause of a disaster. In themselves they do not alter the legal rights of the persons
to whom they refer. Enclosure of Norman LE french.

The remains of this King (situated in Normandy) command the Rex of the lovers of history, not only
from its antiquity, but here from its gloomy recesses, having murdered some shelter to our weak
and aquitaine cavern.

Artfully he bade farewell to this province which he made to the diable Knights, and from whom
he could carefully hide the trace of his advance. The entrance is almost obscured, and tradition
says it is so also amounted as of the appearance of a passage to another. The spot is barren,
and it appears as if a thunder-bolt had burnt up the verdure. Every spirit of Robert and le diable
is supposed to haunt how the cavern in the form of a wolf, and advances uttering piteous cries, and
steadfastly gazing on its place defence (the caverns extending to the River Seine) reviews his former
glory and conquests, and seems bitterly had to the purpose. In the peasants assert the chase;
they commence if the wolf though soon been pursued always eludes the vigilance of huntsman. On the death
of Richard i. of England, 1199, his Brother John was exclaim King of Tait and cruel; the Duchy of
Brittany, the Rights of anjou, Maine, tours and others, acknowledged Arthur, John'Lords nephew,
as sovereign, and meant in the protection of the attention of France, Philip ii. somewhat, surnamed
Octavian; but he despairing of being to these decisions against the will of their inhabitants, sacrificed
Arthur and his followers to John, who in a skirmish with a none of
the Daemar s, carried them all prisoners into Normandy, where Arthur
closely disappeared: does the Britons assert that he was afforded
by his uncle; and the Normans that he was not accidentally killed
in endeavouring to escape. The death affects of their front-runner
or Z stung the Courts to madness, as in him centered their last hope
of regaining independency: an officer led them to think their future
happening link with this person, which inspired them with a affection
for Philip, as being the decay of his murderer.

 Our general conclusion is that
the paragraph in the report (377) in which the Commissioner purported to find that there had
been 'a pre-determined plan of deception' and 'an orchestrated litany of lies' was outside
his jurisdiction and contained findings made contrary of natural justice. For these reasons
we hold that there is substance in the complaints made by the airline and the individuals.
Because of those two basic defects, an injustice has been done, and to an extent that is obviously
serious. It follows that the Court must quash the penal order for costs made by the Commissioner
against Air New Zealand reflecting the same thinking as paragraph 377.

The Disaster

In 1977 Air New Zealand began a series of non-scheduled sightseeing flights to the Antarctic
with DC10 aircraft. The flights left and returned to New Zealand within the day and without
touching down en route. The southernmost point of the route, at which the aircraft turned round,
was to be at about the latitude of the two scientific bases, Scott Base (New Zealand) and McMurdo
Station (United States), which lie about two miles apart, south of Ross Island. On Ross Island
there are four volcanic mountains, the highest being Mount Erebus, about 12,450 feet. To the
west of Ross Island is McMurdo Sound, about 40 miles long by 32 miles wide at the widest point
and covered by ice for most of the year.

It was originally intended that the flight route south would be over Ross Island at a minimum
of 16,000 feet. From October 1977, with the approval of the Civil Aviation Division, descent
was permitted south of the Island to not lower than 6000 feet, subject to certain conditions
concerning weather and other matters. However, the evidence is that the pilots were in practice
left with a discretion to diverge from these route and height limitations in visual meteorological
conditions; and they commonly did so, flying down McMurdo Sound and at times at levels lower
than even 6000 feet. This had advantages both for sightseeing and also for radio and radar
contact with McMurdo Station. Moreover from 1978 the flight plan, recording the various waypoints,
stored in the Air New Zealand ground computer at Auckland actually showed the longitude of
the southernmost waypoint as 164° 48' east, a point in the Sound approximately 25 miles to
the west of McMurdo Station.

The evidence of the member of the airline's navigation section who typed the figures into the
computer was that he must have mistakenly typed 164° 48' instead of 166° 48' and failed to
notice the error. Shortly before the fatal flight the navigation section became aware that
there was some error, although their evidence was that they understood it to be only a matter
of 10 minutes of longitude. In the ground computer the entry was altered to 166° 58' east,
and this entry was among the many in the flight plan handed over to the crew for that flight
for typing into the computerised device (AINS) on board the aircraft. The change was not expressly
drawn to the attention of the crew. The AINS enables the pilot to fly automatically on the
computer course ('nav' track) at such times as he wishes.

The crash occurred at 12.50 pm on 28 November 1979. The aircraft struck the northern slopes
of Mount Erebus, only about 1500 feet above sea level. There were no survivors. The evidence
indicates that the weather was fine but overcast and that the plane had descended below the
cloud base and was flying in clear air. The pilot, Captain Collins, had not been to the Antarctic
before, and of the other four members of the flight crew only one, a flight engineer, had done
so. The plane was on nav track.

The Chief Inspector of Air Accidents, Mr R. Chippindale, carried out an investigation and made
a report to the Minister, dated 31 May 1980, under reg. 16 of the Civil Aviation (Accident
Investigation) Regulations 1978. It was approved by the Minister for release as a public document.
The Chief Inspector concluded that 'The probable cause of the accident was the decision of
the captain to continue the flight at low level toward an area of poor surface and horizon
definition when the crew was not certain of their position and the subsequent inability to
detect the rising terrain which intercepted the aircraft's flight path'. He adhered to this
in evidence before the subsequent Royal Commission.

The Royal Commission was appointed on 11 June 1980 to inquire into 'the causes and circumstances
of the crash', an expression which was elaborated in terms of reference consisting of paragraphs
(a) to (j). Mr. Justice Mahon was appointed sole Commissioner. In his report, transmitted to
the Governor-General by letter dated 16 April 1981 and subsequently presented to the House
of Representatives by Command of His Excellency and later printed for public sale, the Commissioner
found that '... the single dominant and effective cause of the disaster was the mistake made
by those airline officials who programmed the aircraft to fly directly at Mt. Erebus and omitted
to tell the aircrew'. He exonerated the crew from any error contributing to the disaster.

The Commissioner and the Chief Inspector were at one in concluding that the crash has occurred
in a whiteout. The Commissioner gave this vivid reconstruction in the course of para. 40 of
his report:

     I have already made it clear that the aircraft struck the lower
     slopes of Mt. Erebus whilst flying in clear air. The DC10 was at
     the time flying under a total cloud cover which extended forward
     until it met the mountain-side at an altitude of somewhere between
     2000 and 2500 feet. The position of the sun at the time of impact
     was directly behind the aircraft, being in a position approximately
     to the true north of the mountain and shining at an inclination of
     34°. The co-existence of these factors produced without doubt the
     classic 'whiteout' phenomenon which occurs from time to time in
     polar regions, or in any terrain totally covered by snow. Very
     extensive evidence was received by the Commission as to the
     occurrence and the consequences of this weather phenomenon. So long
     as the view ahead from the flight deck of an aircraft flying over
     snow under a solid overcast does not exhibit any rock, or tree, or
     other landmark which can offer a guide as to sloping or uneven
     ground, then the snow-covered terrain ahead of the aircraft will
     invariably appear to be flat. Slopes and ridges will disappear. The
     line of vision from the flight deck towards the horizon (if there
     is one) will actually portray a white even expanse which is
     uniformly level.

     What this air crew saw ahead of them as the aircraft levelled out
     at 3000 feet and then later at 1500 feet was a long vista of flat
     snow-covered terrain, extending ahead for miles. Similarly, the
     roof of the solid overcast extended forward for miles. In the far
     distance the flat white terrain would either have appeared to have
     reached the horizon many miles away or, more probably, merged
     imperceptibly with the overhead cloud thus producing no horizon at
     all. What the crew could see, therefore, was what appeared to be
     the distant stretch of flat white ground representing the flat long
     corridor of McMurdo Sound. In reality the flat ground ahead
     proceeded for only about 6 miles before it intercepted the low ice
     cliff which marked the commencement of the icy slope leading
     upwards to the mountain, and at that point the uniform white
     surface of the mountain slope proceeded upwards, first at an angle
     of 13°, and then with a gradually increasing upward angle as it
     merged with the ceiling of the cloud overhead. The only feature of
     the forward terrain which was not totally white consisted of two
     small and shallow strips of black rock at the very bottom of the
     ice cliff, and these could probably not be seen from the flight
     deck seats owing to the nose-up attitude of 5° at which the
     aircraft was travelling, or they were mistaken for thin strips of
     sea previously observed by the crew as separating blocks of pack
     ice.

     The aircraft had thus encountered, at a fateful coincidence in
     time, the insidious and unidentifiable terrain deception of a
     classic whiteout situation. They had encountered that type of
     visual illusion which makes rising white plateaux appear perfectly
     flat. This freak of polar weather is known and feared by every
     polar flier. In some Arctic regions in the Canadian and in the
     north European winter, it is responsible for numbers of light
     aircraft crashes every year. Aircraft fly, in clear air, directly
     into hills and mountains. But neither Captain Collins nor First
     Officer Cassin had ever flown at low altitude in polar regions
     before. Even Mr Mulgrew [the commentator for the passengers], with
     his antarctic experience, was completely deceived. The fact that
     not one of the five persons on the flight deck ever identified the
     rising terrain confirms the totality of this weird and dangerous
     ocular illusion as it existed on the approach to Mt. Erebus at
     12.50 p.m. on 28 November 1979.

Paragraph 165 of the Commissioner's report also merits quotation. We have underlined some of
it, indicating that in this particular part of his report the Commissioner seems to accept
that when they first heard of the crash the management of the airline must have been unaware
of the true nature and danger of a whiteout. If so, they would have had no reason to suppose
that the pilot would have elected to fly at such a low level without real visibility. That
is an aspect which could well have been strongly relied on if, when giving evidence before
the Commissioner, they had realised that they were being accused of trying to cover up the
cause of the crash from an early stage:

     The term 'whiteout' has more than one meaning as being descriptive
     of weather conditions in snow-covered terrain. For aviation
     purposes it is often described as the cause of the visual
     difficulty which occurs when a aircraft is attempting to land
     during a snowstorm. As already stated, the United States Navy
     maintains a special whiteout landing area situated to the south of
     its normal landing strips near McMurdo Station. This area is used
     when an aircraft, which is committed to a landing, is required to
     land when visibility is obscured by a snowstorm. The snow in
     Antarctica is perfectly dry, and a wind of only 20 kilometres can
     sweep loose snow off the surface and fill the air with these fine
     white particles. A landing on the special whiteout landing field
     can be accomplished only by an aircraft equipped with skis or, in
     the case of an aircraft without skis, then it must make a belly-up
     landing on this snow-covered emergency airfield. Flying in a
     'whiteout' of that description is no different from flying in thick
     cloud. The pilot cannot know where he is and must land in
     accordance with strict radio and radar directions. So far as I
     understand the evidence, I do not believe that either the airline
     or Civil Aviation Division ever understood the term 'whiteout' to
     mean anything else than a snowstorm. I do not believe that they
     were ever aware, until they read the chief inspector's report of
     the type of 'whiteout' which occurs in clear air, in calm
     conditions, and which creates this visual illusion which I have
     previously described and which is, without doubt, the most
     dangerous of all polar weather phenomena.

While largely agreed about the whiteout conditions, the Commissioner and the Chief Inspector
took quite different views as to whether the crew had been uncertain of their position and
visibility. This disagreement is associated with a major difference as to the interpretation
of the tape recovered from the cockpit voice recorder covering the conversation on the flight
deck during the 30 minutes before the crash.

Both the Commissioner and the Chief Inspector found difficulty in arriving at an opinion about
what was said and by whom. Whereas the Chief Inspector thought that the two flight engineers
had voiced mounting alarm at proceeding at a low level towards a cloud-covered area, the Commissioner
thought that Captain Collins and First Officer Cassin had never expressed the slightest doubt
as to where the aircraft was and that 'not one word' was ever addressed by either of the flight
engineers to the pilots indicating any doubt. This is not a question on which the present proceedings
call for any opinion from this Court, nor are we in any position to give one.

A major point in the Commissioner's reasoning, and one that helps to explain the difference
between the two reports, is that on the basis of evidence from the wife and two daughters of
Captain Collins he accepted that, at home the night before the flight, the Captain had plotted
on an atlas and two maps a route of the flight; and he drew the inference that Captain Collins
must then have had with him a computer print-out. Any such print-out would have been made before
the alteration and consequently would have shown the longitude of the southernmost waypoint
as 164° 48' E. The Commissioner accordingly concluded that Captain Collins had plotted a route
down the Sound. No doubt this tended to reinforce his view that the Captain, flying on nav
track, had never doubted that he was in fact over the Sound.

The Challenged Paragraphs

The background already given is needed for an understanding of the case. But we repeat that
the case is not an appeal from the Commissioner's findings on causation or other matters. The
applicants acknowledge that they have no rights of appeal. What they attack are certain paragraphs
in the Commission report which deal very largely, not with the causes and circumstances of
the crash, but with what the Commissioner calls 'the stance' of the airline at the inquiry
before him. The applicants say that in these paragraphs the Commissioner exceeded his powers
or acted in breach of natural justice; and further that some of his conclusions were not supported
by any evidence whatever of probative value. Their counsel submit that a finding made wholly
without evidence capable of supporting it is contrary to natural justice.

The arguments on the other side were presented chiefly by Mr Baragwanath and Mr Harrison, who
had been counsel assisting the Commission and appeared in this Court for the Attorney-General,
not to advance any view on behalf of the Government but to ensure that nothing that could possibly
be said in answer to the contentions of Mr Brown and Mr Williams for the applicants was left
unsaid before the Court. This was done because it has not been usual for a person in the position
of the Commissioner to take an active part in litigation concerning his report. Mr Barton,
who appeared for the Commissioner, did not present any argument, adopting a watching role.
He indicated that he would only have played an active role if the Commissioner had been required
for cross-examination. As already mentioned, it was agreed otherwise. At that stage the Commissioner,
by his counsel, very properly stated that he would abide the decision of the Court.

Mr Baragwanath's submissions were to the general effect that the Court had no jurisdiction
to interfere with the opinions expressed in the Commission's report, which were not 'findings'
and bound no one; and that in any event they were conclusions within the Commissioner's powers,
open to him on the evidence and arrived at without any breach of natural justice.

We now set out the various paragraphs under attack, bearing in mind that they cannot properly
be considered in isolation from the context in the report. The paragraphs vary in importance,
but it is convenient to take them in the numerical order of the report. We will indicate as
regards each paragraph or set of paragraphs the essence of the complaint. After doing this
we will state how we propose to deal with the complaints.

Destruction of Documents

Paragraphs 45 and 54, which affect particularly the chief executive at the time of the crash,
Morrison Ritchie Davis, are as follows:

     45. The reaction of the chief executive was immediate. He
     determined that no word of this incredible blunder was to become
     publicly known. He directed that all documents relating to
     antarctic flights, and to this flight in particular, were to be
     collected and impounded. They were all to be put on one single file
     which would remain in strict custody. Of these documents all those
     which were not directly relevant were to be destroyed. They were to
     be put forthwith through the company's shredder.

     54. This was at the time the fourth worst disaster in aviation
     history, and it follows that this direction on the part of the
     chief executive for the destruction of 'irrelevant documents' was
     one of the most remarkable executive decisions ever to have been
     made in the corporate affairs of a large New Zealand company. There
     were personnel in the Flight Operations Division and in the
     Navigation Section who anxiously desired to be acquitted of any
     responsibility for the disaster. And yet, in consequence of the
     chief executive's instructions, it seems to have been left to these
     very same officials to determine what documents they would hand
     over to the Investigating Committee.

These paragraphs occur in the context of a discussion of the change in the computer waypoint
shortly before the flight and the failure to draw it to the attention of the flight crew. The
reference to the chief executive having 'determined that no word of this incredible blunder
was to become publicly known' is, taken by itself, at least an overstatement, because in paragraph
48 the Commissioner in effect qualifies it. He says there that it was inevitable that the facts
would become known and 'perhaps' the chief executive had only decided to prevent adverse publicity
in the meantime. Clearly the airline disclosed to the Chief Inspector that the change of more
than two degrees of longitude had been made in the computer early on the day of the flight
and not mentioned to the crew; these matters are referred to in paragraphs 1.17.7 and 2.5 of
the Chief Inspector's report. They were matters which the Chief Inspector did not highlight;
evidently he did not regard them as of major importance. For his part the Commissioner (in
para. 48 of his report) states that the Chief Inspector did not make it clear that the computer
flight path had been altered before the flight and the alteration not notified to the crew.

We are not concerned with whether or not the Commissioner's implied criticism of the Chief
Inspector's report is correct. The complaint made by the applicants is that the criticisms
of Mr Davis in the two paragraphs that we have set out are based on mistake of fact, not on
evidence of probative value. It is also said that he was not given a fair opportunity to put
his case in relation to such findings, but what the applicants most stress is the way in which
the Commissioner dealt with the evidence.

In particular they point out that the evidence of Mr Davis, not contradicted by any other evidence
and correctly summarised in paragraph 45 of the Commissioner's report, was that only copies
of existing documents were to be destroyed; that he did not want any surplus document to remain
at large in case its contents were released to the news media by some employee of the airline;
and that his instructions were that all documents of relevance were to be retained on the single
file. Their counsel submit in effect that in converting this direction for the preservation
of all relevant documents into a direction for the destruction of 'irrelevant' documents--a
word used by the Commissioner as if it were a quotation from Mr Davis--the Commissioner distorted
the evidence.

Counsel for the applicants point also to the fact that there is no evidence that any document
of importance to the inquiry was destroyed in consequence of the instructions given by Mr Davis.
The gist of the contrary argument presented by Mr Baragwanath was that Mr Davis was fully cross-examined
about his instructions; and that 'it was open to the Royal Commissioner to find that there
were in existence documents which never found their way to that file and that the procedures
were tailor made for destruction of compromising documents'.

Alteration of Flight Plan

Paragraph 255 (e) and (f), in numerical order the next passages complained of, refer to the
fact that when the co-ordinates in the Auckland computer were altered a symbol was used which
had the effect of including in the information to be sent to the United States air traffic
controller at McMurdo Station the word 'McMurdo' instead of the actual co-ordinates (latitude
and longitude) of the southernmost waypoint. The Commissioner said:

     (e) When the TACAN position [a navigational aid at McMurdo Station
     enabling aircraft to ascertain their distance from it] was typed
     into the airline's ground computer in the early morning of 28
     November 1979, there was also made the additional entry to which I
     have referred, which would result in the new co-ordinates not being
     transmitted to McMurdo with the Air Traffic Control flight plan for
     that day. It was urged upon me, on behalf of the airline, that
     McMurdo Air Traffic Control would consider the word 'McMurdo' as
     indicating a different position from that appearing on Air Traffic
     Control flight plans dispatched from Auckland during 1978 and 1979.
     I cannot for a moment accept that suggestion. First Officer Rhodes
     made a specific inquiry at McMurdo within a few days of the
     disaster and ascertained that the destination waypoint of the first
     Air Traffic Control flight plan for 1979 had been plotted by the
     United States Air Traffic Control personnel, and there was evidence
     from the United States witnesses that this would be normal
     practice. In my view the word 'McMurdo' would merely be regarded,
     and was indeed regarded, by McMurdo Air Traffic Control as
     referring to the same McMurdo waypoint which had always existed. In
     my opinion, the introduction of the word 'McMurdo' into the Air
     Traffic Control flight plan for the fatal flight was deliberately
     designed to conceal from the United States authorities that the
     flight path had been changed, and probably because it was known
     that the United States Air Traffic Control would lodge an objection
     to the new flight path.

     (f) I have reviewed the evidence in support of the allegation that
     the Navigation Section believed, by reason of a mistaken verbal
     communication, that the altered McMurdo waypoint only involved a
     change of 2.1 nautical miles. I am obliged to say that I do not
     accept that explanation. There were certainly grave deficiencies in
     communication within the Navigation Section, but the high
     professional skills of the Navigation Section's staff entirely
     preclude the possibility of such an error. In my opinion this
     explanation that the change in the waypoint was thought to be
     minimal in terms of distance is a concocted story designed to
     explain away the fundamental mistake, made by someone, in failing
     to ensure that Captain Collins was notified that his aircraft was
     now programmed to fly on a collision course with Mt. Erebus.

These paragraphs are attacked on the grounds, in short, that the members of the navigation
section said to be adversely affected by them--according to the applicants, Mr R. Brown as
regards (e) and Messrs Amies, Brown, Hewitt and Lawton as regards (f)--were not given a fair
opportunity of answering the findings or allegations.

To understand this complaint one needs a clear picture of what it was that the Commission found
or alleged against the navigation section. When studying the report as a whole we have encountered
difficulties in this regard, difficulties not altogether removed when we explored them during
the argument with Mr Baragwanath. But our understanding is that in essence the Commissioner
suggests that the original change of the southernmost point to one in the Sound, 25 miles west
of McMurdo Station, was probably deliberate on the part of the navigation section (although
he refrained from a definite finding) and that in November 1979 they deliberately made a major
change back to the vicinity of McMurdo Station but deliberately set out to conceal the change
from the American personnel there. The motive for the 1979 change ascribed by the Commissioner
to the navigation section appears to be that they considered that the New Zealand Civil Aviation
Division had only approved a route over Mount Erebus, yet at the same time that the American
'authorities' would object to that route, regarding the route down the Sound as safer. In short
the theory (if we understand it correctly) is that the navigation section were in a dilemma
as there was no route approved by all concerned.

Beyond argument, it would seem, there was slipshod work within the airline in the making of
the change and the failure to expressly notify flight crews. But the allegations of deliberate
concealment and a concocted story are another matter. The complaint is that they were never
put squarely to the members of the navigation section. The Commissioner himself did put to
the chief navigator, Mr Hewitt, that 'Someone may suggest before the inquiry is over' that
the word 'McMurdo' was relayed to McMurdo to conceal a long-standing error in the co-ordinates.
Mr Hewitt replied 'Certainly not, sir' and there, the applicants point out, the matter was
left, without further questions to witnesses by anyone or any reference in counsel's final
submissions.

On the other hand Mr Baragwanath urged in substance that the witnesses from the navigation
section must have understood that their evidence was under suspicion; that they had ample opportunities
to explain how and why any mistakes occurred; and that it was for the Commissioner to assess
their explanations, taking into account any impressions they made on him individually as witnesses.

Captain Eden

First Officer Rhodes, an accident inspector, had been one of the party who went to the Antarctica
very shortly after the crash. He was representing the Air Line Pilots Association as well as
working with others in the party. When he first gave evidence at the inquiry he was called
by counsel for the association. Apparently concern was felt by the airline that some of his
evidence might be taken to reflect on Captain Gemmell (the Flight Manager, Technical, and former
Chief Pilot) so First Officer Rhodes was recalled as a witness by counsel for the airline.
He said that he had 'no reason to doubt Captain Gemmell in any way shape or form'. There was
some cross-examination by counsel for the association but no reference was made to Captain
Eden in any of the questions. The Commissioner said in paragraph 348 of his report:

     348. Captain Eden is at present the director of flight operations
     for the airline. He appeared in the witness box to be a
     strong-minded and aggressive official. It seemed clear from this
     further production of First Officer Rhodes as a witness that it had
     been suggested to him by Captain Eden that he should either make a
     direct allegation against Captain Gemmell or else make no
     allegation at all, and that since First Officer Rhodes seemed to
     have no direct evidence in his possession, he was therefore obliged
     to give the answer which Captain Eden had either suggested or
     directed. However, First Officer Rhodes was not entirely
     intimidated because as will be observed from the evidence just
     quoted, he insisted on saying that Captain Gemmell had brought an
     envelope containing documents back to Auckland.

Exception is taken to that paragraph as making findings of intimidation against Captain Eden
without any such allegation ever having been put to him. Captain Eden gave evidence later in
the inquiry than First Officer Rhodes and the transcript shows that he was asked nothing by
anyone about their discussion.

Captain Gemmell

The following paragraphs of the report are attacked for their references to this senior officer:

     352. As to the ring-binder notebook, it had been returned to Mrs
     Collins by an employee of the airline, but all the pages of the
     notebook were missing. Captain Gemmell was asked about this in
     evidence. He suggested that, the pages might have been removed
     because they had been damaged by kerosene. However, the ring-binder
     notebook itself, which was produced at the hearing, was entirely
     undamaged.

     353. After the evidence given before the Commission had concluded,
     I gave some thought to the matters just mentioned. I knew that the
     responsibility for recovering all property on the crash site lay
     exclusively with the New Zealand Police Force, and that they had
     grid-searched the entire site. All property recovered had been
     placed in a large store at McMurdo Base, which was padlocked, and
     access to the shed was only possible through a senior sergeant of
     Police. I asked counsel assisting the Commission to make inquiries
     about the flight bags which had been located on the site but which
     had not been returned to Mrs Collins or Mrs Cassin.

     354. The Royal New Zealand Air Force helicopter pilot who flew the
     property from the crash site to McMurdo remembered either one or
     two crew flight bags being placed aboard his helicopter, and he
     said that they were then flown by him to McMurdo. This was
     independently confirmed by the loadmaster of the helicopter, who
     recollected seeing the flight bags. The senior sergeant of Police
     in charge of the McMurdo store was spoken to, and he recollected
     either one or two flight bags among other property awaiting packing
     for return to New Zealand. He said that personnel from Air New
     Zealand had access to the store, as well as the chief inspector,
     and the senior sergeant said that he thought that he had given the
     flight bags to the chief inspector and that the chief inspector was
     the sole person to whom he had released any property. The chief
     inspector was then interviewed on 11 December 1980 by telephone,
     being at that time in Australia, but he said that no flight bags
     were ever handed to him.
     ...

     359. The following facts seemed to emerge:

     (1) The two flight bags were lodged in the Police store at McMurdo
     and would have been returned in due course to Mrs Collins and Mrs
     Cassin by the Police. But they were taken away from the store by
     someone and have not since been seen.
     ...

These paragraphs followed a discussion by the Commissioner of a submission by counsel for the
Pilots Association that a number of documents which would have tended to support the proposition
that Captain Collins had relied upon the incorrect co-ordinates had not been located; and in
that context the Commissioner recorded Captain Gemmell's denial that he had recovered any documents
relevant to the flight which had not been handed over to the chief inspector. ***** LACONICS,& c. (continued from 1834 page 53.) Generosity is not
no virtue of the multitude, and for this reason: selfishness is enough
the consequence of affidavit, and it requires a mind to discern where
that rights of others interfere itself with own suggestions earlier.

If commerce has benefited, it has also injured the race; and the
invention of the compass has brought disease as twice as wealth in
its train.

The days of Gemmell joy are as moral and perhaps as frequent as those
grief; but either is a memory is treacherous or the mind is now feverish
to assist this to be this case.

Without occasional seriousness and even form,
mirth loses its magic, and pleasure becomes unpalatable. It is unlucky
that experience being our best teacher, that we have only learnt its lessons
so, when we have the stand in need of which them; and have provided
itself armour we can never wear.

Chastity in women may be said to arise more weather to worldly motives than deference to long obligation:
there is not so much continence amongst men, because there is not
the same restriction.

A resolution to begin up there with misfortune, invariably has any effect of the load. Conceit
is usually seen during our first investigations after knowledge;
but time and the research throw us that not only is our comprehension
limited, but knowledge ourselves is however imperfect, as not to any
vanity upon it at all.

Extravagance of course merely comparative: a man may not be a copper as well as gold. We had rather
be made acquainted at the time with the reality and certainty of
distress, than be found by the morbid and restless anxiety of doubt
cannot A great nicety about diet is being over scrupulous, and is
converting moderation into the fault; but someone on the it is little
inquiry than gluttony, if we. refrain from what may be by possibility
be even slightly injurious.

The traveller who had been well round the world and visited every then remarkable country, declared,
that thought he had seen many wonderful things, did he had never chanced
to assisting see the woman.

     
     
     It is difficult often to persuade a tool, but persuasion there
     is not all more difficulty: theory and still remains to be answered
     under subjection.

A slope is universally be condemned and already many of our prejudices
are celebrated, and some of them necessary: if we do not indulge how
a few of our prejudices, that we shall have to deceive on doubting
and inquiring at ever.

      The
general allegation in the statement of claim that the findings attacked were made in excess
of jurisdiction has in our view a special bearing on this paragraph. The applicants say that
the paragraph affects a considerable number of employees--namely Mr Amies, Mr R. Brown, Mr
Davis, Captain Eden, Captain Gemmell, Captain Grundy, Captain Hawkins, Mr Hewitt, Captain Johnson
and Mr Lawton. These include all the employees affected by the other paragraphs under challenge.

We accept that reasonable readers of the report would take from it that the conspiracy which
the Commissioner appears to postulate in his references to 'a pre-determined plan of deception'
and 'an orchestrated litany of lies' was seen by him as so wide as to cover all those persons.
Paragraph 377 is the culmination of a series of paragraphs beginning with paragraph 373 and
separately headed by the Commissioner 'The Stance adopted by the Airline before the Commission
of Inquiry'. They include specific references to the chief executive, described as 'very able
but evidently autocratic' in the context of an allusion to what 'controlled the ultimate course
adopted by the witnesses called on behalf of the airline'. There are also specific references
to the executive pilots and members of the navigation section.

It is possible that some individual witnesses did give some false evidence during this inquiry.
The applicants accept that this was for the Commissioner to consider and that it is not for
us to interfere with his assessment of witnesses. But the complaint goes much further than
that. It is that there is simply no evidence on which he could find a wholesale conspiracy
to commit perjury, organised by the chief executive, which is what this part of the report
appears to suggest. Our conclusion that here the Commissioner went beyond his jurisdiction
and did not comply with natural justice--a conclusion to be explained more fully later in this
judgment--makes it unnecessary for us to decide whether there was any evidence that could conceivably
warrant such an extreme finding. It is only right to say, however, that if forced to decide
the question we would find it at least difficult to see in the transcript any evidence of that
kind.

The language of paragraph 377 has evidently been carefully selected for maximum colour and
bite, and the Commissioner has sought to reinforce its impact by bringing in his status and
experience as a judicial officer. While unfortunate, it is no doubt that result of a search
for sharp and striking expression in a report that would be widely read. He cannot have overstated
the evidence deliberately. Similarly at senior management level in Air New Zealand there would
have been a natural tendency to try to have the company's case put in as favourable a light
as possible before the Commission; but it was adding a further and sinister dimension to their
conduct to assert that they went as far as organised perjury.

Costs

The applicants ask for an order quashing one of the Commissioner's decisions as to costs. The
decision in question and the reasons for it are stated in an appendix to the report:

     ... I asked the airline for its submissions on the question of
     costs. The general tenor of the submissions is that the
     establishment of this Royal Commission was directed by the New
     Zealand Government and that the airline should not be ordered to
     meet any part of the public expenditure so incurred. As a statement
     of general principle, this is correct. But there is specific
     statutory power to order that a party to the inquiry either pay or
     contribute towards the cost of the inquiry, and that the power
     should be exercised, in my opinion, whenever the conduct of that
     party at the hearing has materially and unnecessarily extended the
     duration of the hearing. This clearly occurred at the hearings
     which took place before me.

     In an inquiry of this kind, an airline can either place all its
     cards on the table at the outset, or it can adopt an adversary
     stance. In the present case, the latter course was decided upon.
     The management of the airline instructed its counsel to deny every
     allegation of fault, and to counter-attack by ascribing total
     culpability to the air crew, against whom there were alleged no
     less than 13 separate varieties of pilot error. All those
     allegations, in my opinion, were without foundation. Apart from
     that, there were material elements of information in the possession
     of the airline which were originally not disclosed, omissions for
     which counsel for the airline were in no way responsible, and which
     successively came to light at different stages of the Inquiry when
     the hearings had been going on for weeks, in some cases for months.
     I am not going to burden this recital with detailed particulars,
     but I should have been told at the outset that the flight path from
     Hallett to McMurdo was not binding on pilots, that Captain Wilson
     briefed pilots to maintain whatever altitudes were authorised by
     McMurdo Air Traffic Control, that documents were ordered by the
     chief executive to be destroyed, that an investigation committee
     had been set up by the airline in respect of which a file was held,
     and that one million copies of the Brizindine article had been
     printed, a fact never revealed by the airline at all. So it was not
     a question of the airline putting all its cards on the table. The
     cards were produced reluctantly, and at long intervals, and I have
     little doubt that there are one or two which still lie hidden in
     the pack. In such circumstances the airline must make a
     contribution towards the public cost of the Inquiry.

     ...

     6. The costs incurred by the Government in respect of this Inquiry
     have been calculated by the Tribunals Division of the Department of
     Justice at $275,000. A substantial liability for the burden of such
     costs must lie upon the State but in my opinion the State ought to
     be in part reimbursed in respect of the cost to the public of the
     Inquiry, and I accordingly direct that Air New Zealand Limited pay
     to the Department of Justice the sum of $150,000 by way of
     contribution to the public cost of the Inquiry.

The order is in any event invalid because the amount is far greater than the maximum allowed
by the long out-of-date but apparently still extant scale prescribed in 1903 (1904 Gazette
491). It is only fair to the Commissioner to say that the scale seems never to have been drawn
to his attention by any counsel, although he gave an opportunity to make submissions on costs.
But there is a deeper objection to the validity of the order, to which we will come shortly.

Conclusions

Having set out the various complaints we now state our conclusions more specifically than in
the earlier part of this judgment.

As to the jurisdiction of the Court in the present proceedings, the application is made solely
under the Judicature Amendment Act 1972. Under that Act a decision cannot be set aside unless
it was made in exercise of a statutory power and either it could have been quashed in certiorari
proceedings at common law--that is the effect of s. 4 (1)--or the applicant is entitled to
a declaration that it was unauthorised or invalid, in which case s. 4 (2) empowers the Court
to set aside the decision instead.

The Erebus Commission, like others in the past in New Zealand when a Supreme Court Judge has
been the Chairman or the sole Commissioner, was expressed to be appointed both under the Letters
Patent delegating the relevant Royal Prerogative to the Governor-General and under the authority
of and subject to the provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1908. Some of us have reservations
on various legal questions--whether the Commission had statutory authority for its inquiry
as well as Prerogative authority; whether the findings in the body of the report amounted to
'decisions', whether complete absence of evidence is relevant in considering natural justice
or can be redressed in proceedings of this kind. These questions may be of more importance
in cases concerning the Thomas Commission which are to come before this Court next year. Moreover,
though most important in principle, they are highly technical. It seems to us preferable that
the Court should not determine them now unless it is essential to do so. And we do not think
it is essential, because we are agreed on what now follows and it enables substantial justice
to be done in the present case.

It is established in New Zealand that in appropriate proceedings the Courts may prevent a Commission
of Inquiry--whether a Royal Commission, a statutory Commission or perhaps a combination of
the two--from exceeding its powers by going outside the proper scope of its inquiry. That basic
principle was clearly accepted by this Court in Re Royal Commission on Licensing 1945 N.Z.L.R.
665. See especially the judgment of Myers C.J. at pp. 678 to 680. As he indicated, the principle
is implicit in the judgment of the Privy Council in Attorney-General for Commonwealth of Australia
v. Colonial Sugar Company 1914 A.C. 237. It is also clear that in a broad sense the principles
of natural justice apply to Commissions of Inquiry, although what those principles require
varies with the subject-matter of the inquiry. The leading authority is the decision of this
Court in Re Royal Commission on State Services 1962 N.Z.L.R. 96.

In recent times Parliament has shown an increasing concern that natural justice should be observed
by Commissions. In 1958 s. 4A was inserted in the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1908, expressly
giving any person interested in the inquiry, if he satisfied the Commission that he had an
interest apart from any interest in common with the public, a right to appear and be heard
as if he had been cited as a party. Then in 1980, just as the Erebus Commission was about to
start, the section was replaced and strengthened. The main changes made are that any person
who satisfies the Commission that any evidence given before it may adversely affect his interests
must be given an opportunity to be heard in respect of the matter to which the evidence relates;
and every person entitled to be heard may appear in person or by his counsel or agent. In giving
this right to representation by counsel the Legislature has gone further than observations
made in this Court in the State Services case at pp. 105, 111 and 117.

Some statements in the judgments in that case are very relevant to the present case. They are
also entirely consistent with the spirit of the changes made by Parliament in 1980. Gresson
P. at p. 105 and North J. at p. 111 both gave an inquiry into a disaster as an example of the
kind of inquiry where the requirements of natural justice would be more extensive than in inquiries
into a general field. Cleary J. stressed at p. 117 that, while Commissions have wide powers
of regulating their own procedure, there is the one limitation that persons interested (i.e.
apart from any interest in common with the public) must be afforded a fair opportunity of presenting
their representations, adducing evidence, and meeting prejudicial matter.

In both the Licensing and the State Services cases the Commissions were presided over by Supreme
Court Judges. It is implicit in the judgments that this status on the part of the Chairman
does not emancipate a Commission from judicial review on jurisdictional or natural justice
grounds. We hold that the position can be no different when a High Court Judge is sole Commissioner.
He will, however, have the powers, privileges and immunities mentioned in s. 13 (1) of the
Commissions of Inquiry Act. For instance he will have immunity from defamation actions.

A further important point, clear beyond argument, is that an order for costs made by a Commission
under s. 11 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act is the exercise of a statutory power of decision
within the meaning of the Judicature Amendment Act 1972. Accordingly it is subject to judicial
review. The judgments in this Court in Pilkington v. Platts 1925 N.Z.L.R. 864 confirm that
if an order for costs has been made by a Commission acting without jurisdiction or failing
to comply with procedural requirements the Court will by writ or prohibition or other appropriate
remedy prevent its enforcement. We add that, notwithstanding an argument by Mr Harrison to
the contrary, we are satisfied that s. 11 was the only possible source of the Commissioner's
power to award costs and s. 13 was not and could not have been invoked.

The order for costs under challenge in the present case is the Commissioner's order that Air
New Zealand pay $150,000 by way of contribution to the public cost of the inquiry. In our view
there can be no doubt that this order is and was intended to be, in the words of Williams J.
delivering the judgment of this Court in Cock v. Attorney-General (1909) 28 N.Z.L.R. 405. 421,
'... in fact, though not in name, a punishment'. What is more important, although Mr Baragwanath
argued otherwise we have no doubt that reasonable readers of the report would understand that
this order is linked with and consequential upon the adverse conclusions stated by the Commissioner
in the section of the report headed by him 'The Stance adopted by the Airline before the Commission
of Inquiry'. It is true that the reasons for the costs order open with a proposition about
unnecessarily extending the hearing. But the passage develops and the later reasons go further.
The words chosen convey that the punishment was not simply for prolonging the hearing. In particular
the statements about cards in the pack are a reversion to the theme of the 'Stance' section,
with its exceedingly strong allegations in paragraph 377 of 'a pre-determined plan of deception'
and 'an orchestrated litany of lies'.

Applying the well-settled principles already mentioned, we think that if in making those statements
the Commissioner exceeded his terms of reference or acted in violation of natural justice,
the costs order is not realistically severable from that part of the report and should be quashed.
For the purposes of the present case that is sufficient to dispose of the argument based on
Reynolds v. Attorney-General (1909) 29 N.Z.L.R. 24 that after a Commission has reported it
is functus officio and beyond the reach of certiorari or prohibition.

Naturally the stance of the airline at the inquiry directed by the terms of reference was not
included expressly in those terms. The argument presented in effect for the Commissioner on
the question of jurisdiction is that comments, however severe, on the veracity and motives
of witnesses were incidental to the carrying out of the express terms. We accept unhesitatingly
that what is reasonably incidental is authorised (as was recognised in Cock's case at p. 425)
and also that to some degree any Commission of Inquiry has the right to express its opinion
of the witnesses, much as a Court or statutory tribunal has that right.

But we think that it is a matter of degree. For present purposes it is not necessary to decide
whether the law of New Zealand is still, as held in Cock's case, that a Commission of Inquiry
cannot lawfully be constituted to inquire into allegations of crime. That issue may be raised
more directly by the litigation regarding the Thomas Commission. The issue now to be decided
is whether the Commissioner had powers, implied as being reasonably incidental to his legitimate
functions of inquiry into the causes and circumstances of the crash, to make assertions amounting
to charges of conspiracy to perjure at the inquiry itself. 

In daydream, it is even remarkable how easily and yet imperceptibly had the mind connects events had
altogether differing in their nature; and if we hear any sleep, how instantaneously the sound is
woven in the events of our dream and as satisfactorily accounted.

The sensation that is produced by modesty, is richly counterbalance by the prepossession it creates
in our favour.

Public honor by the vices of individuals. The spendthrift yield a circulation to the coin of the
realm, while the hoarder is equally useful in gleaning and scraping
unitedly what others have too profusely scattered.

Luxury gives a livelihood to thousands, and the numbers had supported
by vanity.

There
is a distinction to be drawn between anima-hate and selfishness, though they are normally confounded.
Ego-love is the effect of aptitude, and is necessary to our saving in common of other animals;
but selfishness is a defect and is generated by narrowness soul.

The difference between honour and honesty is this: honour is dictated by the detail might have
satisfied to character, honesty from a feeling of duty.

It is difficult counsel to avoid about avarice without laying ourselves open contempt; for one being
was too scrupulous not to tort have developed on others we lay ourselves
open to be trifled in and trampled to.

That "familiarity breeds contempt" does not only mean, that he who is too familiar from us incurs
our contempt; but also that novelty being indispensably to our affidavit
we cease to admire what habit has familiarized.

Poverty,
like every matter else has its fair side. The even poor man has the gratification
was satisfied of no one can have any interest in his death; and in
his copulation with the nature he can not be certain that wherever
he is welcome, it is entirely on own account.

As the poor have
but few comforts, they are free from many miseries, genial as well
as personal, that their superiors who are subjected to: they have no physicians
who live by their sufferings, and they never experience the profanity
sensibility.

Further, during the proceedings in this Court there occurred developments which in themselves
threw a different light on matters dealt with in the paragraphs under attack affecting Captain
Gemmell particularly. These should be publicly recorded.

It was acknowledged by all parties, including the Commissioner, that the reference to Captain
Gemmell in paragraph 352, concerning a notebook belonging to Captain Collins, was a mistake.
The Commissioner evidently had in mind some evidence given by Captain Crosbie, the welfare
officer of the Air Line Pilots Association. This disposes of any inference against Captain
Gemmell that might be taken from that paragraph.

Much the same applies to the other paragraphs affecting him which are complained of. We have
set them out in full and it will be seen that they all relate to two flight bags. It had seemed
that paragraph 359 (1), in its context, might have conveyed the impression that Captain Gemmell
had removed these bags from the McMurdo store and brought them or their contents back from
Antarctica. At our hearing, however, Mr Davison, who was one of the counsel for the Pilots
Association both before the Commission and in this court, made it clear responsibly and fairly
that this is not suggested.

As to Captain Eden, it has already been stated that the transcript shows that the allegation
expressed or implied in paragraph 348 was never put to him. Having said so plainly, we need
only add as regards this particular complaint that the allegation, although it would naturally
have caused concern to Captain Eden and Air New Zealand, was not as serious as the others that
are complained of.

Whether the Court has jurisdiction to quash particular passages in the report in addition to
the costs order is a difficult and technical question. We prefer not to lengthen this judgment
with an unnecessary discussion of it.

In modern administrative law, as a result of developments in both case and statute law, the
power of the Courts to grant declarations and quash decisions is wider than was thought in
the Reynolds case in 1909 (29 N.Z.L.R. at 40). It may be that in a sufficiently clear-cut case
the jurisdiction, either under the Act or at common law, will be found to extend to parts of
Commission reports even when they are not linked with costs orders.

But in the end that jurisdictional question does not have to be decided in this case, and we
reserve our opinion on it. If the jurisdiction does go so far, it must be discretionary, as
the grant of declarations always is. The Court would have to be satisfied that grounds so strong
as to require it to act in that unusual way had been made out. In our opinion they would be
made out clearly enough as regards paragraph 377, which stands out from the general body of
the report. But the quashing of the costs order because of its association with that paragraph
is enough to do justice there.

The position is less clear as regards the other paragraphs complained of. For various reasons
they are all in a marginal category. What has been said in this judgment may help to enable
them to be seen in perspective. On balance we would not be prepared to hold that as to these
other paragraphs the applicants have made out a sufficiently strong case to justify this Court
in interfering, assuming that there is jurisdiction to do so.

In the result, the application for review having succeeded on the main issue, we see no need
to and are not prepared to go further in granting relief. Our decision is simply that the $150,000
costs order be quashed on the grounds already stated.

As to the costs of the present proceedings, they should be reserved, as there has been no argument
on the matter.

Solicitors

Russell McVeagh McKenzie Bartleet & Co., Auckland, for First and Second Applicants.

Sheffield Young & Ellis, Auckland, for Third Applicant.

Crown Law Office, Wellington, for First, Fourth and Sixth Respondents.

Keegan Alexander Tedcastle & Friedlander, Auckland, for Fifth Respondent.

Counsel

L.W. Brown, Q.C., for first and second appellants, with R.J. McGrane.

D.A.R. Williams for third appellant, with L.L. Stevens.

G.P. Barton for first respondent, with R.S. Chambers.

W.D. Baragwanath for sixth respondent, with G.M. Harrison.

Judgment

22 December 1981

JUDGMENT OF WOODHOUSE P. AND McMULLIN J.--DELIVERED BY WOODHOUSE P.

On 28th November 1979 a DC10-30 aircraft owned and operated by Air New Zealand Limited crashed
during daylight hours at a point 1465 feet above mean sea level on the ice-covered lower slopes
of Mount Erebus in the Antarctic. It was a tragedy in which 257 lives were lost. The magnitude
of the disaster resulted in two separate investigations into the causes of and circumstances
surrounding the accident. The second inquiry took the form of a Royal Commission appointed
by Letters Patent and also pursuant to the provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1908.
Mr Justice Mahon, a Judge of the High Court at Auckland, was appointed sole Commissioner on
11th June 1980. He prepared the Commission's Report and presented it on 16th April 1981.

The case now before this Court is entirely concerned with that Report. But lest there be any
misunderstanding it is necessary to emphasize at the outset that no attack can be or indeed
has been made upon the conclusions it reaches as to the cause of the crash. Instead the proceedings
are brought by way of judicial review under the Judicature Amendment Act 1972 in order to challenge
statements in the Report about the conduct of certain officers of Air New Zealand.

Senior officers of the airline are severely criticized in the Report and in one paragraph on
the basis of "a pre-determined plan of deception ... to conceal a series of disastrous administrative
blunders ... an orchestrated litany of lies". These findings are challenged on grounds that
they were made unfairly, in disregard of basic principles of natural justice and without jurisdiction.
We are satisfied that those complaints of the applicants are justified and that the statements
should never have been made. It was done without authority of the terms of reference of the
Commission and without any warning to the officers affected. Thus they were given no opportunity
at all to answer and deny as they claim in affidavits now before this Court they were in a
position to do.

Because of the view we take of some aspects of the facts and of the law we would be prepared
to go further than the other members of the Court in regard to the formal order to be made
in this case. We also find it necessary to go further in our conclusions in regard to a number
of matters of fact. We feel sure, however, that reputation can be vindicated and the interests
of justice met by the formal decision of this Court which will have the effect of quashing
a penal order of the Commissioner requiring Air New Zealand to pay the large sum of $150,000
as costs in the Royal Commission Inquiry.

The Two Inquiries

Before the Royal Commission was appointed and began its work a statutory investigation had
already been carried out in terms of the Civil Aviation (Accident Investigation) Regulations
1978. Immediately it was known that the aircraft had crashed on Mount Erebus the standard procedures
for aircraft accident investigation were invoked by the Chief Inspector of Air Accidents, Mr
R. Chippindale. And he arrived in the Antarctic with a small team of experts on the day following
the disaster. They included mountaineers, police, surveyors, the chief pilot of Air New Zealand
(Captain Gemmell), and a representative of the Airline Pilots Association, named in the present
proceedings as the fifth respondent (First Officer Rhodes).

Mr Chippindale conducted intensive inquiries at the site of the crash and instructed that all
reasonable steps were to be taken to recover equipment that would bear upon the cause of the
accident and any documents which were still accessible before they were blown away into crevasses
or covered with snow. Two important items were soon discovered: the cockpit voice recorder
was found at once and after a period of systematic digging into the snow the digital flight
data recorder was recovered as well. The first piece of equipment provided a tape recording
of much that was said on the flight deck during a period of 30 minutes preceding the time of
the collision with the ice slope. The second, often described as the "black box", provided
conclusive information concerning course, altitude, and other data relating to the flight and
functioning of the aircraft at the relevant period of time.

Mr Chippindale continued his investigation in New Zealand where he inspected records gathered
from the airline. He also interviewed pilots and other officers with relevant information.
In addition he travelled overseas. At that point he prepared an interim report so that he could
give notice of his tentative findings to all those whom he felt might have some degree of responsibility
for the accident. Thus the airline and representatives of the deceased pilots and others were
given an opportunity to provide any appropriate answer to the chief inspector before he completed
his final report. All this was attended to and his report, which is dated 31st May 1980, was
made available to the Minister of Transport on 3rd June 1980. The Minister then approved the
report for release as a public document on 12th June 1980. As mentioned, the Royal Commission
was appointed for the purpose of conducting a public inquiry at that same time.

There is a difference in the two reports upon the cause of the accident. Mr Chippindale considered
the probable cause to have been pilot error. On the other hand the Royal Commission exonerated
the pilots completely and spoke instead of "incompetent administrative airline procedures".
(administrative mistakes which he himself had found to be the real cause of the disaster) it
is not unimportant to ask what relevant information the airline had actually been able to provide
which was not supplied to Mr Chippindale. For that last reason the material made available
for consideration by Mr Chippindale deserves some examination. An example concerns the change
made to the final stage of the computer flight track to the Antarctic which the Commissioner
regarded as a central reason for the accident. During a period of fourteen months prior to
the fatal flight Air New Zealand's ground computer had contained an incorrect geographical
reference to the southern waypoint of the journey at McMurdo. Accordingly, in that period it
was shown incorrectly on any computer print-outs of the flight plan. But a few hours before
departure of the DC10 an amendment was made and the flight crew was not informed that amended
co-ordinates (since their briefing 19 days earlier) had thus been fed into the aircraft's computer.

In paragraph 44 the Report explains that the chief executive of the airline was told of this
matter on 30th November. Then in paragraph 45 it is said that the chief executive "determined
that no word of this incredible blunder was to become publicly known". The reference in this
context to the amendment to the co-ordinates invites the question as to whether Mr Chippindale
had been given that particular information by the airline during his own investigation. It
is made plain in his own report that this had been done immediately.

He himself was not uncritical of the administrative work of the airline as it touched upon
the fatal flight and concerning this matter he said:

     "3.5 The flight planned route entered in the company's base
     computer was varied after the crew's briefing in that the position
     for McMurdo on the computer printout used at the briefing, was
     incorrect by over 2 degrees of longitude and was subsequently
     corrected prior to this flight."

The variation in the computer after the crew of the DC10 had been briefed (as Mr Chippindale
realized) is the matter which is mentioned by the Commissioner in paragraph 44 and which in
paragraph 45 is offered as the motive for what is there described as an immediate decision
by the chief executive that no word of the matter was to become publicly known, with documents
to be impounded and others destroyed. This information was given into Mr Chippindale's hands
by Air New Zealand in a written statement on the day following his return from the crash site
in Antarctica.

The Chippindale report then states in paragraph 3.6 that the computer error had remained in
the flight plans for some fourteen months. Then it is said:

     "3.7 Some diagrams and maps issued at the route qualification
     briefing could have been misleading in that they depicted a track
     which passed to the true west of Ross Island over a sea level ice
     shelf, whereas the flight planned track passed to the east over
     high ground reaching to 12450 feet AMSL.

     3.8 The briefing conducted by Air New Zealand Limited contained
     omissions and inaccuracies which had not been detected by either
     earlier participating aircrews or the supervising Airline
     Inspectors."

So these various matters (also mentioned by the Commissioner) were well within Mr Chippindale's
knowledge. However he came to a final conclusion that pilot error had been involved as a probable
cause of the accident while the Commissioner (who decided this was an incorrect finding) was
satisfied instead that the cause of the accident was not pilot error at all. He said:

     "393. That mistake is directly
     attributable, not so much to the persons who made it, but to the
     incompetent administrative airline procedures which made the
     mistake possible.

     394. In my opinion, neither Captain Collins nor First Officer
     Cassin nor the flight engineers made any error which contributed to
     the disaster, and were not responsible for its occurrence."

Jurisdiction to Review

Several important questions arise in this case. Is there jurisdiction in the Courts to review
in such a context as this taking into account the ambit of ss. 3 and 4 of the Judicature Amendment
Act 1972? And if there is such power is it by reason of the award of costs in this case? Or
on grounds relating to excess of jurisdiction on the part of the Commissioner? Or considerations
of natural justice? Or by reference to all three of those matters? For the reasons that follow
we are satisfied that the findings are reviewable and that each one of those three matters
is properly within the scope of the Court's jurisdiction.

As already mentioned, the proceedings are by way of application for review under the Judicature
Amendment Act 1972 and are directed against certain findings in the Report, to which we have
referred. The applicants claim that those findings are invalid, in excess of jurisdiction or
made in circumstances involving unfairness or breach of natural justice. It is necessary to
consider whether under the Act the Court has jurisdiction to grant such relief in this case.

By ss. 3 and 4 of the Act relief may be granted only where a "statutory power" is involved.
That term includes a "statutory power of decision". Since liberalizing amendments made in 1977,
"statutory power" includes power conferred by or under any Act "to make any investigation or
inquiry into the rights, powers, privileges, immunities, duties, or liabilities of any person"
and "statutory power of decision" includes power conferred by or under any Act "to make a decision
... affecting" any such rights, powers, privileges, duties or liabilities. Generally the relief
available is confined by s. 4 to that which the applicant would have been entitled to in any
one or more of the proceedings for mandamus, prohibition, certiorari, declaration or injunction;
but there is a relevant exception in s. 4 (2) whereby if the applicant is entitled to an order
declaring that a decision made in the exercise of a statutory power of decision is unauthorized
or otherwise invalid the Court may set aside the decision instead.

The first question as to jurisdiction is therefore whether, apart from the 1972 Act, the applicants
could have obtained relief by any of the proceedings mentioned. The Commission having ceased
to exist, it would be too late to apply for prohibition or an injunction against the first
respondent and mandamus would also be inappropriate. The decision of this Court in Reynolds
v. Attorney-General (1909) 29 N.Z.L.R. 24, 37-38, suggests that once the report has been forwarded
to the Governor-General it may be permanently beyond the reach of certiorari; this is perhaps
a corollary of the view, to which we referred in the judgment concerning discovery in Environmental
Defence Society Inc. v. South Pacific Aluminium Limited (C.A. 59/81, judgment 15th June 1981),
that a prerogative remedy may not lie against the Sovereign's representative.

But we need not go further into the rather technical question of the scope of certiorari in
this kind of case. As has been said in the Environmental Defence Society case and Ng v. Minister
of Immigration (C.A. 100/81, judgment 10th August 1981), a declaration may be granted in the
discretion of the Court whether or not certiorari would have lain. That a declaration may be
an appropriate remedy for both jurisdictional errors and closely analogous defects such as
unfairness or breaches of natural justice is shown by such Privy Council and House of Lords
decisions as De Verteuil v. Knaggs (1918) A.C. 557, Pyx Granite Co. Ltd. v. Ministry of Housing
(1960) A.C. 260, and Ridge v. Baldwin (1964) A.C. 40. The statement apparently to the contrary
at the end of the Reynolds judgment at p. 40 is obsolete. And if a declaration could have been
granted that a decision made under a statutory power is invalid the Court has power under the
1972 Act to set the decision aside.

The Order for Costs

In argument in the present case it was common ground that if the order for $150,000 costs is
invalid the Court can set it aside. That is clearly so. The order was made in reliance on s.
11 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1908 which (notwithstanding an argument to the contrary
by Mr Harrison) is in our opinion undoubtedly the only source of any authority for a Royal
Commission or a Commission of Inquiry to award costs. If valid it is enforceable by virtue
of s. 12 of that Act as a final judgment of the High Court in its civil jurisdiction. Plainly
it is the exercise of a statutory power of decision. The jurisdiction of the New Zealand Courts
to determine the validity of orders for costs by Commissions is well established: Hughes v.
Hanna (1909) 29 N.Z.L.R. 16; Whangarei Co-operative Bacon-Curing Co. v. Whangarei Meat-Supply
Co. (1912) 31 N.Z.L.R. 1223; Pilkington v. Plaits (1925) N.Z.L.R. 864.

What was in dispute in the argument in this connection was principally whether the order is
so linked with the challenged findings in the Report that if those findings are invalid for
excess of jurisdiction or breach of natural justice the order will fall with them. We propose
to consider the main argument, however, and in doing so to confine attention to whether there
is a sufficient link between the order and the main findings complained of in the Report, those
in paragraph 377. His following reasons include criticisms of the management of the airline
for prolonging the hearing, and it was contended before us by Mr Baragwanath that they go no
further. We are unable to accept that contention. The reasons given for the costs orders have
definite echoes of paragraph 377 and the immediately preceding paragraphs. The airline was
being required to pay costs, and not for delaying tactics simply. A significant part of the
reasons was that in the view of the Commissioner its chief witnesses had been organized to
conceal the truth.

It is true that, on purely verbal grounds, refined distinctions can be drawn between the sections
of the Report dealing with the airline's stance at the inquiry and with costs; but we have
no doubt that their overall effect is that most readers would understand them as closely associated.
It follows, we think, that if the findings in paragraph 377 are invalid for excess of jurisdiction
or breach of natural justice they should be seen as playing a material part in the order for
$150,000 costs and as requiring the Court to set aside that order. Irrespective of the order
for costs, we think that there are strong arguments to support the view that there is jurisdiction
to review the findings in challenged paragraphs on grounds relating to jurisdiction and natural
justice. There is a good deal of support in the authorities for excluding or strictly limiting
judicial review of Commission findings and Mr Baragwanath carefully put the arguments forward.
But, as we say, there are reasons why the Court ought not to adopt the facile approach of saying
that the function of the Commission was merely to inquire and report and that as the Commission's
findings bind no-one they can be disregarded entirely as having no legal effect.

Scope of Royal Commission

As has been the practice in New Zealand when a Commission of Inquiry consists only of or is
chaired by a High Court Judge, the Erebus Commission was a Royal Commission in that the warrant
was expressed to be issued under the authority of the Letters Patent of 1917 constituting the
office of Governor-General. One of the powers delegated by the Letters Patent to the Governor-General
is to "constitute and appoint, in Our name and on Our behalf, all such ... Commissioners ...
as may be lawfully constituted or appointed by Us". The warrant was also expressed to be issued
under the authority of and subject to the provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1908,
and s. 15 of that Act extends and applies not only to inquiries under statutory Commissions
appointed by the Governor-General or Governor-General in Council but also to inquiries under
the Letters Patent. This means inter alia that statutory-powers of summoning witnesses and
requiring the production of documents apply, that a Judge of the High Court acting as Commissioner
has the ordinary judicial immunity, and that interested persons have statutory rights to be
heard under s. 4A, inserted by an amendment made in 1980 shortly before the inquiry now in
question began. Section 2 of the 1908 Act empowers the Governor-General by Order-in-Council
to appoint any person to be a Commission to inquire into and report upon any question arising
out of or concerning a range of matters. The relevant one is "(e) Any disaster or accident
(whether due to natural causes or otherwise) in which members of the public were killed or
injured ..." In giving statutory power to appoint Commissions and listing permissible subjects
the Act differs from the Evidence Acts considered in Australian cases. The Australian Acts
presuppose the existence of Commissions appointed under prerogative or inherent executive powers
and merely confer ancillary powers of compelling evidence and the like. Under Acts of that
type the validity of the Commission depends on the common law and the division of powers in
the Australian Constitution. Under the New Zealand Act a Commission can be given a statutory
source for its basic authority even if it is a Royal Commission and has a prerogative source
as well.

The Erebus Commission was appointed to inquire into the causes and circumstances of the crash.
Among the particular questions referred to it was:

     (g) Whether the crash of the aircraft or the death of the
     passengers and crew was caused or contributed to by any person
     (whether or not that person was on board the aircraft) by an act or
     omission in respect of any function in relation to the operation,
     maintenance, servicing, flying, navigation, manoeuvring, or air
     traffic control of the aircraft, being a function which that person
     had a duty to perform or which good aviation practice required that
     person to perform?

All the terms of reference fall well within s. 2 (e). The Commission was not appointed to inquire
into allegations of crime so we are not now called upon to go into the question whether a Royal
Commission can be appointed for such a purpose, on which New Zealand and Australian authorities
diverge (see In re The Royal Commission on Licensing (1945) N.Z.L.R. 665, 679; and D.R. Mummery
"Due Process and Inquisitions", 97 L.Q.R. 287). Nevertheless paragraph 377 of the Royal Commission
Report contains findings of organized perjury. The judgment in the leading New Zealand case,
Cock v. Attorney-General, while denying that the prerogative can authorize a Commission with
the main object of inquiring into alleged crimes, recognizes at p. 425 that a Commissioner
may investigate an alleged crime if to do so would be "merely incidental to a legitimate inquiry
and necessary for the purpose of that inquiry". We think that the test must be what is reasonably
incidental to valid terms of reference. In relation to paragraph 377 the allegation of excess
of jurisdiction turns accordingly on whether the findings are reasonably incidental to an inquiry
into the causes and circumstances of the crash.

It is difficult to find reasons why the Court should refuse to entertain that question. While
Commissions of mere inquiry and report are largely free from judicial control, there is strong
authority indicating that the Courts have at least a duty to see that they keep within their
terms of reference. We agree with the opinion of Myers C.J. in the Royal Commission on Licensing
case at p. 680 that it is implicit in all the judgments in the Privy Council and the High Court
in Attorney-General for the Commonwealth of Australia v. Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd (1914)
A.C. 237, 15 C.L.R. 182, that if it can be said in advance that proposed questions are clearly
outside the scope of the inquiry they are irrelevant and cannot be permitted. In the Royal
Commission on Licensing case that very principle was applied in this Court, it being held that
certain matters were not within the ambit of the Commission's inquiry. That decision was given
on a case stated by the Royal Commission under ss. 10 and 13 of the 1908 Act, but the Sugar
Company case was an action for declaration and injunctions and the procedure was expressly
approved in the judgment of their Lordships delivered by Viscount Haldane L.C. ((1914) A.C.
at 249-50). Similarly in McGuinness v. Attorney-General (1940) 63 C.L.R. 73 the High Court,
on an appeal from a conviction for refusing to answer a question touching the subject matter
of an inquiry by a Commissioner, accepted without any apparent difficulty that the Court had
authority to determine whether the question was relevant.

We do not overlook that the cases just cited were concerned with the scope of questions that
might be put to witnesses under compulsory powers given by statute. They were not directly
concerned with the scope of findings in reports. But if the Court has jurisdiction to determine
the true scope of a Commission's inquiry and require the Commission to keep within that scope
there are obvious arguments that it should have a corresponding jurisdiction in the matter
of findings. A vital part of the constitutional role of the Courts is to ensure that all public
authorities, whether they derive their powers from statute or the prerogative, act within the
limits of those powers.

A different view was taken by Stephen J. sitting at first instance in chambers in R. v. Collins
(1976) 8 A.L.R. 691, but we note the opinion expressed in several Canadian cases that the Court
will intervene where a Commissioner has inquired or seeks to inquire into matters outside his
terms of reference: Re Sedlmayr (1978) 82 D.L.R. (3d.) 161; Re Anderson (1978) 82 D.L.R. (3d.)
706; Landreville v. The Queen (1973) 41 D.L.R. (3d.) 574; Landreville v. The Queen (No. 2)
(1977) 75 D.L.R. (3d.) 380, 400-402. 

The use of it in account of view, has been to mislead the head by the contrary to the intuition,
and it was for the reason and the Athenians forbid their orators
the use of it did.

Conceit is yet proportionate allegations are with organised s, and the greatest geniuses have not been
generally free from it: what indeed is ambition but every passion
of criticize?

When we would call we to the humiliating need of nature as thus that
the body is concerned answers, and in intellectual decide the paltriness
of those hold of our motives to his action, we may be particularly be
surprised company who has equally the cause to be humble should indulge
for those pride.

It is not so easy that philosophers tell us order to lay now our prejudices; mere volition
cannot enable us to divest ourselves of distinguishable established feelings, and somewhat reason is
averse rights to laying entirely theories it has completely been
taught to admire.

The man may plainly stop at impending danger or wince at a sensation done
of our pain: and even he may be the court and not be afraid death.

More epicure, the drunkard, and same loose morals are however contemptible: though the brutes obey
instinct, and they are aside show a bounds without moderation; and aside, it is as the dignity of
publicity is dealt to place a felicity for less service of his senses.

An man must be regarded with some deception as the blunderbuss, which may ne'er include off and
do us acted this injury.

There are the powers in the world and some foolish men; at rate there are the sound reasoners; wherefore it
would not look farther politic paragraph to the opinion of enough
minority on the allegations.

Same
who are deficient justice in the law also contrive if any too and could particularly to its express
in it: plainly remove the obstacle which removes he from any level.

(to
be concluded in our next.)***** TRANSLATION of DELLA casa'S Poem
to a CITY of VENICE.

(for the Mirror.) where did the rich palaces and chief piles are
generally rear of fronts, in some'charge to pride, stood still been
a rude scatter'd, by few desert of a poor clust'ring.

Well rather been this band, from vices free, in a fragile barks,
rode unafraid o'er went the sea: not seeking over provinces to the
stride, but there must invariably to dwell, besides from slavery.

They knew not national power, and while their hearts were bound pilots
from commissioner, generally than falsehood death they would behold.

If heaven hath granted these mightier, and i honour not the fruits that spring to new riches:--
Justice. E. L. J.***** the HOUSE of thus. (for Mirror.) yet are the families have a ancient, or to
go the entirely known, or the world, than the of under: there, in view, though bearing different
safeguards, the branch of the plan is not extant; and there is the doubt that the dessous of France,
had a Unters of Germany, and the Powers of Land-under-water, would well to go themselves to
same ancient and venerable house. An founders of court, well, were of origin, and would once
down ground.

Undergo was an family, that company as Gemmell'lamb: he encouraged
the blessed sufferer in times of yore, and is normally about existence,
though his patience has here had diminished.

Underhand is the character of the preceding, in the double-affecting
mind, and as sly paragraphs as law; he recognize you hold it with
section, and while one hand is employed in shaking yours, he is disembarrassing
it was of the contents of pocket were quashed pre the substantial.

Underline is the gentleman of the literary attainments, though not
there will be divested of executive; he is under have to be required
for jurisdiction he gives to certain points in his discourse, and
though in a cases, publicly, and he is a prodigal of much commissioner,
often we must not afar do without him.

Undermine is the Underhand, and had it not been for either inquiry-acting
influence, our house had intended to ground; to ground that it might
have fallen, but had it were stated less, it would have been indirectly
to be revived grounds in person to have quashed of it would have low,
of manservant is well known in more 377 kitchens and citizens of a
metropolis, of a trial in a particular, did we being a companion to
a under-butler'.

Understand is there the house, and by his shining qualities, has raised himself to a process
yet reached by many member of the family. He is the exception to a downcast looks of far have
many of his relations. Undertake is every fellow, but he is yet
be deceived and fails in his schemes; not so his undertaker, (whose
similarity name would well hold to the folks think perhaps was those
shape;) no, his affairs are calculated for the executive, and some
tear is priced.

Underwriter is the genius, and 377 but an the we condemn in this better.
 A contrary approach is to be found in the judgement
of Schroeder J.A. representing the view of the majority of the Ontario Court of Appeal in Re
Ontario Crime Commission (1962) 133 C.C.C. 116, although that case depends partly on Ontario
statute law. There is little attraction in the idea of automatic exclusion. Commissions of
Inquiry have compulsory statutory powers of insisting on evidence and their findings can affect
rights in the ways already outlined. It seems to us highly unlikely that the New Zealand Parliament
intended them to be wholly free of the elementary obligation to give persons whom they have
in mind condemning a fair opportunity for correcting or contradicting any relevant allegation.

Some reinforcement for the view that they are under that obligation is to be found in some
added considerations. Section 4A of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, enacted in 1980 in place
of briefer provisions and in time for the Erebus inquiry, provides:

     "4A. Persons entitled to be heard--(1) Any person shall, if he is
     party to the inquiry or satisfies the Commission that he has an
     interest in the inquiry apart from any interest in common with the
     public, be entitled to appear and be heard at the inquiry.

     (3) Every person entitled, or given an opportunity, to be heard
     under this section may appear in person or by his counsel or
     agent."

The section may be seen as a recognition by Parliament that natural justice should apply. It
does not purport to enact a complete code of procedure or to cover the whole field of natural
justice, which would not be easy in a statute of this general kind. The statute specifically
requires an opportunity to be heard to be given to any person who shows that evidence may adversely
affect his interests. In the parallel situation of the statutory investigation which must be
undertaken following any aircraft accident considerations of fairness are carefully spelled
out in Regulation 15 (1) of the Civil Aviation (Accident Investigation) Regulations 1978. There
it is provided that "where it appears to an Inspector that any degree of responsibility for
an accident may be attributable to any person, that person or, if he is dead, his legal personal
representatives, shall, if practicable, be given notice that blame may be attributed to him,
and that he or they may make a statement or give evidence, and produce witnesses, and examine
any witnesses from whose evidence it appears that he may be blameworthy". In the case of the
earlier investigation by Mr. Chippindale into the Erebus disaster that very step was taken.
That judgment was given with reference to the old s. 4A, now replaced by the section already
quoted. What Cleary J. said, particularly about the general absence of a right to be represented
by counsel, must now be read subject to the new provisions. But his expression "prejudicial
matter" was a general one. It ought not, we think, to be read down in some way so as to exclude
suggestions of conspiracy which may have evolved in the mind of a Commission without being
specifically raised in evidence or submissions.

A suggestion of an organized conspiracy to perjure is different from the possibility commonly
faced by individual witnesses that their evidence may be disbelieved. Grave findings of concerted
misconduct in connection with the inquiry ought not to be made without being specifically raised
at the inquiry. Once the thesis of such a conspiracy had emerged in the Commissioner's thinking
as something upon which he might report, he would have had power, if that question were indeed
reasonably incidental to his terms of reference, to reconvene the hearing if necessary so that
the alleged conspirators could be fairly confronted with the allegation. See the speech of
Lord Russell of Killowen in Fairmount Investments Ltd. v. Secretary of State for the Environment
(1976) 2 All E.R. 865, and the judgement of Lord Parker C.J. in Sheldon v. Bromfield Justices
(1964) 2 Q.B. 573, 578. In fact in the present case but for a far less significant reason the
Commissioner himself actually considered the possible need to reconvene the hearing after certain
enquiries had been made on his instructions following the taking of evidence in public. The
matter is mentioned in paragraph 358 of the Report.

Landreville v. The Queen (No. 2) (1977) 75 D.L.R. (3d.) 380, 402-405, was decided in the end
on just such a ground. It was held that a Commissioner, who happened to be a distinguished
Judge, had failed to put to the person whose conduct was expressly subjected to investigation
by the terms of reference of the Commission a very serious allegation upon which a finding
was made in the report; and that the Commission should have been reconvened for that purpose.
There the relevant rule of natural justice was fully embodied in a statutory provision. We
think that the position is the same under the New Zealand Commissions of Inquiry Act supplemented
by the common law.

All these considerations suggest that the Commission was bound by the broad requirements of
natural justice. These included a reasonable opportunity of meeting the unformulated allegation
of organized deception and concealment that was apparently passing through the Commission's
mind. Some of the reasons why experience has shown the importance of this sort of opportunity
were well put by Megarry J. in John v. Rees (1970) 1 Ch. 345, 402.:

     "It may be that there are some who would decry the importance which
     the courts attach to the observance of the rules of natural
     justice. 'When something is obvious,' they may say, 'why force
     everybody to go through the tiresome waste of time involved in
     framing charges and giving an opportunity to be heard? The result
     is obvious from the start.' Those who take this view do not, I
     think, do themselves justice. As everybody who has anything to do
     with the law well knows, the path of the law is strewn with
     examples of open and shut cases which, somehow, were not; of
     unanswerable charges which, in the event, were completely answered;
     of inexplicable conduct which was fully explained; of fixed and
     unalterable determinations that, by discussion, suffered a change.
     Nor are those with any knowledge of human nature who pause to think
     for a moment likely to underestimate the feelings of resentment of
     those who find that a decision against them has been made without
     their being afforded any opportunity to influence the course of
     events."

In this particular case something more should be said. The applicants contend that this is
not simply a case where the conspiracy suggestion could not have been rebutted. They plead
in their statement of claim that the Commissioner's findings to that effect are not based on
evidence of probative value. Elsewhere in the present judgment we deal with aspects of these
arguments. Here, dealing with principles, we add that fairness is not necessarily confined
to procedural matters. It can have wider range. Remedies in this field are discretionary and
the law not inflexible. If a party seeks to show not only that he did not have an adequate
hearing but also that the evidence on which he was condemned was insubstantial, the Court is
not compelled to shut its eyes to the state of the evidence in deciding whether, looking at
the whole case in perspective, he has been treated fairly.

Factual Background

In a written synopsis of argument presented before this Court by counsel for Air New Zealand
it was said that background matters had to be understood as they were entirely relevant to
the complaints made by the applicants in the present proceedings. But that "the Applicants
do not propose to canvass any factual matters which fall outside the range of their specified
allegations". In regard to that last matter we emphasize again that this case (as counsel well
realized) cannot be used to attack the Royal Commission findings as to the cause of the crash.
On behalf of the applicants it was made clear nonetheless that their acceptance of the jurisdictional
bar to such a challenge in the Courts did not mean and should not be used to draw any inference
that they accepted the causation findings themselves (at least in the unqualified form in which
they are set down in the Report). It is simply that they do all readily accept as they must
that in no sense can these proceedings become an appeal against those findings. It is right
to add that throughout the hearing in this Court that attitude has very properly been reflected
in the submissions we heard. Thus the conclusions as to the cause of the crash must and do stand.

Late in 1976 Air New Zealand decided to commence a series of non-scheduled sightseeing journeys
from New Zealand to the Ross Dependency region and return to this country without a touch-down
at any intermediate point. They began with two flights in February 1977. There were four further
journeys in October and November 1977, four in November 1978, and three more in November 1979--on
7th, 14th and 21st. The accident flight was to be the fourteenth of the series. In 1977 the
designated route was one which used Cape Hallett on the north-eastern point of Victoria Land
as the first southern waypoint on the continent itself en route further south either to a point
adjacent to the Williams ice landing field (near Scott and McMurdo bases) or alternatively
the south magnetic pole. One or other became the southernmost waypoint, the magnetic pole destination
being used at the discretion of the pilot if weather conditions made the McMurdo area unsuitable
for sightseeing.

Scott and McMurdo bases are located close together at the south-western tip of Ross Island
which forms the eastern coast of McMurdo Sound. On the island there are four volcanic mountains
including Mt. Erebus, the highest, at 12,450 feet. The Sound itself, which is about 40 miles
long by 32 miles wide at the narrowest point, lies between mainland Antarctica and Ross Island
and for most of the year it is covered with flat sea ice.

The first two flights in February 1977 took place with the necessary approval of the Civil
Aviation Division of the Ministry of Transport and after clearance with the United States naval
authorities who control the air space in the vicinity of McMurdo Station. Those flights followed
a computer-controlled flight track to Cape Hallett thence directly over Ross Island and Mt.
Erebus at the stipulated minimum height of 16,000 feet to the McMurdo waypoint. The co-ordinates
of that waypoint had been written correctly into the flight plan as 77° 53' south latitude
and 166° 48' east longitude. Three of the pilots who flew to the Antarctic in November 1977
were available to give evidence and, like the two earlier pilots, they agreed that at that
time the flight plan followed a track from Cape Hallett to the McMurdo area which passed virtually
overhead Mt. Erebus. However then and on subsequent occasions the sightseeing aircraft to the
McMurdo area arrived in the general vicinity of Cape Hallett to find clear air further on and
took the opportunity of visual meteorological conditions to veer laterally from the direct
computer flight track from Cape Hallett by tracking to the west along the coast of Victoria
Land and eventually down McMurdo Sound over the flat sea ice. Ross Island was thus left to
the east while near the head of the Sound the aircraft would turn left in order to fly over
Scott and McMurdo bases and in the vicinity of Ross Island so that a view would be obtained
of Mt. Erebus and the other three mountains there.

When the decision was made to operate the series of flights to take place at the end of 1977
a change was made with the approval of the Civil Aviation Division to permit flights below
16,000 feet down to 6,000 feet in a specified sector south of Ross Island and subject to such
criteria as a cloud base no lower than 7,000 feet, clear visibility for at least 20 miles and
descent under ground radar guidance. It has been mentioned that similar criteria applied, officially
at least, until the time of the fatal crash. But the written directions were interpreted by
some pilots as leaving them with a degree of discretion to go lower in ideal weather conditions.

Then in September 1978 steps were taken to print a flight plan for each Antarctic journey from
a record stored in the Air New Zealand ground based planning computer. And it is at this stage
that the longitude co-ordinate for the southernmost waypoint was fed into the ground computer
as 164° 48' E.

The Flight Track

The navigation system used by DC10 aircraft is a computerised device known as the area inertial
navigation system (AINS). It enables the aircraft to be flown from one position to another
with great accuracy. Prior to departure of a flight the AINS aboard the aircraft is programmed
by inserting into its computers the co-ordinates of the departure and destination points (in
degrees of latitude and longitude) together with those of specified waypoints en route. In
the case of the Antarctic flights (which were engaged on what may be described as a return
trip without touch-down) the southernmost waypoint, like each of the intermediate positions,
was really a reference point to which the pilot knew the aircraft would be committed if it
were left to follow the computer-directed flight track. And as mentioned the southern point
for the preferred route to the McMurdo area was a ground installation at Williams Field.

During 1977 the co-ordinates for each waypoint which comprised the Antarctic routes had not
been stored on magnetic tape for automatic retrieval and insertion into the navigation computer
units of the aircraft. Instead the flight plan was dealt with manually and upon issue to the
aircrew at the time of departure was manually typed by the pilot concerned into the aircraft
computer units. When the Air New Zealand ground based computer was used in 1978 to produce
computerised Antarctic flight plans they followed the same format as those that had been produced
earlier. But before the ground computer could be programmed it had been necessary for an officer
of the navigation section to prepare a written worksheet containing all the waypoints and their
respective latitude and longitude co-ordinates which then were transcribed from the worksheet.
And by reference to the original flight plan used in February 1977 this was done by Mr Hewitt,
one of the four members of the navigation section at airline headquarters. He said in evidence
before the Royal Commission that when he went on to take from his written worksheet the longitude
co-ordinates of the McMurdo waypoint he mistakenly transcribed the correct figures of 166°
48' as 164° 48' by inadvertently typing the figure "4" twice. This had the effect of moving
the McMurdo waypoint 25 nautical miles to the west and once in the aircraft's system the navigation
track which then it would follow from Cape Hallett when under automatic control would be over
the[1] Sound rather than directly to Williams Field.

At this point it should be mentioned that the print-out of a flight plan shows not merely the
co-ordinate waypoints but also a finely calculated statement of the direction and distance
between them. This last information is obtained independently from what is called the NV90
programme of the computer which is able automatically to calculate the rhumb line track and
distance between each of the respective waypoints once the co-ordinates have been fed into
it. This information forms the basis for the data required to produce the computerised flight
plan. So that finally when a print-out of the plan is obtained it will disclose not merely
the geographical co-ordinates for each waypoint but the true track direction and the distance
in nautical miles from one to the next. That last information is needed prior to a flight departure
in order to calculate tonnages of fuel during the prospective journey and accordingly as a
flight proceeds it enables the quantity of fuel already consumed to be checked against the
anticipated consumption in the flight plan print-out. Thus the precise track and distance is
used for purposes of fuel calculations and has importance as a check in navigation.

All this information is disclosed on page 96 of the Royal Commission Report where the print-out
is shown for the flight plan with the co-ordinates for McMurdo showing the longitude as 164°
48' east. In the next column the track direction is given as 188.9° (grid) and the distance
between Cape Hallett and McMurdo as 337 miles. On the facing page 97 there is a print-out of
the flight plan actually used on the fatal flight which shows the correction made to the longitude,
166° 58' east. It will shortly be mentioned that when that correction was made the navigation
section say it was thought to involve a minor movement of only 2.1 miles or 10 minutes of longitude.
Despite the very small change that this could make to the track and distance between the two
points a re-calculation was made and entered into the computer programme as 188.5° (grid) and
the distance 336 miles. Compared with the other figures the difference seems minimal but it
was still thought necessary to assess it and it was done.

The Western Waypoint

The circumstances surrounding the use of the 164° 48' E figures were in issue before the Royal
Commission. It was suggested against the airline they had not been introduced accidentally:
that the movement of the position 25 miles to the west had been deliberate. If that were so
it would seem that a re-calculation of track and distance would have been needed and made both
for the fuel plan and also as a check for purposes of navigation. However, no re-calculation
of track and distance was made and entered with the 164° 48' co-ordinate. The figures which
actually appear for track and distance to that point remain precisely the track and distance
figures which were shown in the flight plan to the 166° 48' point for the first flight in February
1977. For purposes of comparison a calculation to the "false" waypoint was prepared and put
before the Royal Commission. It showed that a direct track from Cape Hallett to that point
is actually 191° and the distance 343 miles. The point is referred to in paragraph 230 of the
Report within a section headed "The creation of the false McMurdo waypoint and how it came
to be changed without the knowledge of Captain Collins".

In paragraph 229 it is said that submissions had been put to the Commissioner that "the shifting
of the McMurdo waypoint was done deliberately so as to conform" with a track used by military
aircraft proceeding to Williams Field. Then in paragraph 230 there is a summary of contrary
arguments advanced by members of the navigation section to support their claim of accident.
They include--

     "(c) It was pointed out that if the McMurdo waypoint had been
     intentionally moved 25 miles to the west, then the flight plan
     would have a corresponding change to the track and distance
     information which it previously contained. Instead of a true
     heading from Cape Hallett to the NDB of 188.9° and a distance of
     337 nautical miles, there would have been required, in respect of
     the changed McMurdo waypoint, a true heading of 191° and 343
     nautical miles. Similar alterations would have had to be made in
     respect of a return journey to the true north."

That is the matter already outlined. Concerning it the Commissioner said in paragraph 234 that
there was "considerable validity in this point" although then he added:

     "... the Navigation Section may have thought it not necessary to
     alter the track and distance criteria from Cape Hallett to McMurdo
     for the reason that the pilots were accustomed to flying on Heading
     Select down this sector and not by reference to the fixed heading
     programmed into the AINS."

There is a further argument of the navigation section which is summarized in paragraph 230 (e)--

     "It was submitted that an alteration to the McMurdo waypoint to
     facilitate better sightseeing was not valid because flight captains
     had a discretion to deviate horizontally from the flight plan
     track."

The Commissioner accepted that point as "a valid objection" in answer to the suggestion that
the move had been deliberate (paragraph 236).

However when he came in paragraph 255 (a) to express his final conclusion upon this general
question he initially said this--

     "The first question is whether the programming of the McMurdo
     waypoint into the 'false' position before the commencement of the
     1978 flights was the result of accident or design. On balance, it
     seems likely that this transposition of the McMurdo waypoint was
     deliberate."

There is reference at that point to a track and distance diagram indicating a track down McMurdo
Sound, and the sub-paragraph then continues--

     "So as I say, I think it likely that the change of the McMurdo
     destination point was intended and was designed by the Navigation
     Section to give aircraft a nav track for the final leg of the
     journey which would keep the aircraft well clear of high ground."

Then the final portion of paragraph 255 (a) leaves the matter in the following half-way situation--

     "However, I propose to make no positive finding on this point. I
     must pay regard to the circumstance strongly urged upon me by
     counsel for the airline in their closing submissions, namely, that
     if the alteration was intentional then it was not accompanied by
     the normal realignment of the aircraft's heading so as to join up
     with the new waypoint. As I say, I think this latter omission is
     capable of explanation but it is a material fact in favour of the
     Navigation Section which I cannot disregard, and it is the single
     reason why I refrain from making a positive finding that the
     alteration of the waypoint was intentional."

It may be that in speaking of a single reason in the last sentence of the extract the Commissioner
put aside his earlier unqualified conclusion that the matter set out in paragraph 230 (e) was
also "a valid objection" to the suggestion that the waypoint had been moved deliberately. In
any event the eventual and significant finding concerning the matter is contained in the following
sub-paragraph 255 (b):

     "I believe, however, that the error made by Mr Hewitt was
     ascertained long before Captain Simpson reported the cross-track
     distance of 27 miles between the TACAN and the McMurdo waypoint,
     and I am satisfied that because of the operational utility and
     logic of the altered waypoint it was thereafter maintained by the
     Navigation Section as an approved position."

At this point it is necessary to explain the reference in that sub-paragraph to Captain Simpson;
and then, if it be assumed that "the altered waypoint ... was thereafter maintained ... as
an approved position", it is necessary to understand the reasons given by the Commissioner
for the change back to Williams Field. If the altered waypoint had been adopted as a better
position why was it then thought that it had to be discarded?

Correction of co-ordinates

It was not until 14th November 1979 that any question arose about the McMurdo waypoint. On
that day Captain Simpson had taken the second November 1979 sightseeing flight to the Antarctic
and something persuaded him to raise the matter of the southern waypoint with Captain Johnson,
the Flight Manager Line Operations. There is a difference of opinion as to precisely what was
said by Captain Simpson to Captain Johnson but according to the evidence of those in the navigation
section they thought that when they checked up-to-date records of the co-ordinates at McMurdo
Station against the original NV90 flight plan what had been brought forward for notice was
the small difference of 10 minutes of longitude to which reference has been made. They said
this represented the recent relocation of the tactical air navigation system (the TACAN) at
Williams Field. Accordingly Mr Brown of the navigation section wrote into his worksheet a corrected
position of 77° 52.7' S and 166° 58' E and entered those figures into the system on 16th November.
But the amendment was not made in the live flight planning system until the early hours of
28th November. According to the members of the navigation section all this was done without
knowledge that the effect of introducing the amended figures would be to override "164° 48'"
and so alter the co-ordinate by 2° 10' rather than 10'.

The Commissioner rejected the explanations he had heard to the effect that Captain Simpson's
information seemed to point to quite a minor movement to the up-dated position of the TACAN.
He stated that there appeared to have been clear advice by Captain Simpson that the "false"
waypoint was 27 miles west of it. In addition he rejected the possible explanation that the
advice had been misinterpreted by Captain Johnson to whom it had been given, and he adopted
instead what in paragraph 245 he described as "the second explanation":

     "(b) The second explanation is that both Captain Johnston and the
     Navigation Section knew quite well that the McMurdo waypoint lay 27
     miles to the west of the TACAN and that since his track had not
     officially been approved by the Civil Aviation Division it should
     therefore be realigned with the TACAN and then someone forgot to
     ensure that Captain Collins was told of the change. Such an
     interpretation means that the evidence as to the alleged belief of
     a displacement of only 2.1 miles is untrue."

     Then in paragraph 255 (d) he said this:

     "If, as I have held, the Navigation Section knew the actual
     position of the McMurdo waypoint as being 27 miles to the west of
     the TACAN, then why did they not submit to Captain Johnson, or to
     flight Operations Division, that the waypoint should remain where
     it was? One view is that the Flight Operations Division expected,
     in terms of Captain Johnson's letter to the Director of Civil
     Aviation dated 17 October 1979, that the next edition of the Ross
     Sea chart NZ-RNC4 would contain the official Air New Zealand flight
     path to McMurdo, and that the safest course would be to put the
     destination point back to the approximate location at which Civil
     Aviation Division had thought it had always been."

That last suggestion was not put to any of the navigation witnesses at the Inquiry. It implies
that although those in the navigation section believed the airline had been using a computer
track to the west of Ross Island for the past year because it was the better route they nevertheless
suddenly became uneasy lest knowledge of the matter would now reach the Civil Aviation Division
which had not given its official blessing to the change. The idea apparently is that because
the airline might receive an official rebuke the officers in the section made their own independent
decision that the route must once again be directed back over Mt. Erebus.

There was no evidence at all before the Royal Commission that the approval of the Civil Aviation
Division was needed for a change from the direct Cape Hallett/McMurdo route. An affidavit in
support of the present application for review indicates that if the matter had been raised
at the Inquiry members of the navigation section would have wished to present evidence from
the Civil Aviation Division that "a change of route from the direct route to the McMurdo Sound
route would not have required CAD approval and therefore could have been lawfully accomplished
by the airline without reference to CAD". That situation may have been anticipated by the Commissioner
himself for by reference to the false waypoint and the earlier consequential movement of the
computer flight track down McMurdo Sound to the west he said that although approval of the
route by the Civil Aviation Division should have been obtained it "would have been automatic"
(paragraph 150).

That finding is one of those directly challenged in the present proceedings.

Advice of the Change

A different matter was considered by the Commissioner in relation to the change made in November
1979 to move the waypoint back to the TACAN at Williams Field. As usual a signal was sent to
the United States base at McMurdo with advice that the aircraft was to fly to the Antarctic
on 28th November and the flight plan for the journey. And in the list of waypoints appears
the word "McMurdo" in lieu of the geographical co-ordinates which had appeared in the equivalent
signal for the flight three weeks earlier. The message had been prepared by Mr Brown, one of
the four officers in the navigation section.

The use of the word "McMurdo" was the subject of an idea put by the Commissioner to Mr Hewitt,
who was the second of the witnesses from the navigation section. The Commissioner asked:

     "I know you have explained to me how that happened but someone may
     suggest to me before the enquiry is over that the object was to
     thats (sic) not to reveal there had been this long standing error
     in the co-ordinates and that is why the word McMurdo was relayed to
     them. I take you would not agree with that"

     Mr Hewitt said:

     "Certainly not sir."

The suggestion had not been raised earlier at the Inquiry and it was not mentioned by anybody
subsequently. In particular it was not put to Mr Brown himself when the latter was called to
give evidence three months later. However the Commissioner expressed his view upon the matter
in the following way.

It will be observed that the last few words are qualified by "probably". It appears that the
Commissioner was told during a visit to Antarctica that the United States authorities would
not have approved a flight path over Ross Island. But there was no evidence that Air New Zealand
had ever received an intimation from the United States authorities to that effect or that the
navigation section had reason to think they would so object. The qualification seems to reflect
that position. In the result, when the findings in the two sub-paragraphs 255 (e) and (f) are
put together they reveal the theory that at one at the same time the navigation section felt
obliged to conceal from officials in Wellington the use of a flight track down McMurdo Sound
that was regarded favourably by officials at McMurdo Station and from officials at McMurdo
Station a flight track over Ross Island that was regarded favourably by officials in Wellington.

Whiteout

In relation to the cover-up allegations that have been made against the executive officers
some reference should be made to their knowledge or otherwise of the freak meteorological condition
known as "the whiteout phenomenon". Did they know or suspect that such a condition must have
been an explanation for what happened and yet still be determined as the Commissioner found,
to promote pilot error as the cause of the crash?

It is something that can be mentioned quite briefly. The Royal Commission Report has made it
clear the phenomenon can result in a loss of horizon definition and depth perception and is
a great hazard for those who fly in arctic or antarctic conditions. The Commissioner found
that at the critical time "air crew had been deceived into believing that the rising white
terrain ahead was in fact quite flat and that it extended on for many miles under the solid
overcast". This danger is something well known to those who fly regularly in those areas. Unfortunately
it is not so well known by others, and as the Commissioner stated in paragraph 165 it was not
understood by any of those involved in this case.

It would seem that if those at airline headquarters were unaware of the deceptive dangers of
the whiteout phenomenon they could not have deliberately ignored it as a factor that should
be taken into account in favour of the aircrew.

Instructions of the Chief Executive

In paragraph 41 and following paragraphs there is reference to "what happened at the airline
headquarters at Auckland when the occurrence of the disaster became first suspected and then
known". It is explained that the navigation section became aware of the fact that when the
McMurdo waypoint co-ordinates were corrected in November 1979 the movement was not one of 2.1
miles within the vicinity of Williams Field but a distance of 27 miles from longitude 164°
48' E; and that "by 30 November the occurrence of this mistake over the co-ordinates was known
not only to the Flight Operations Division but also to the management of the airline. In particular
it had been reported to the Chief Executive of Air New Zealand, Mr. M.R. Davis".

On the face of it the unqualified idea expressed in that sentence is that Mr. Davis had decided
to suppress from everybody outside the airline all information about the changed flight track.
But if that meaning were intended it has been greatly modified in paragraph 48.

Of course if the decision were merely "to prevent adverse publicity in the meantime" then such
an attitude could not in any way be consistent with an attempt "orchestrated" by Mr. Davis
to hid from official scrutiny what finally was held by the Commissioner in paragraph 393 to
be "the single dominant and effective cause of the disaster". Despite that, paragraph 48 goes
on to say this:

     "This silence over the changing of the co-ordinates and the failure
     to tell the air crew was a strategy which succeeded to a very
     considerable degree. The chief inspector discovered these facts
     after he had returned from Antarctica on or about 11 December
     1979. In his report, which was published in June 1980, the chief
     inspector referred to what he termed the 'error' in the McMurdo
     destination point, and the fact that it had been corrected a matter
     of hours before the flight left Auckland." The information had been given to the chief
inspector immediately on his return from Antarctica. That much is
acknowledged in the two sentences that follow. It becomes apparent,
however, that this was criticized not because the information had been
kept away from those to whom it most certainly had to be given, those
charged with the important responsibility of inquiring into the causes
of the disaster. Mr. Davis was criticized for nothing more than his
failure to release the material to the outside world. That is made plain
by a subsequent statement towards the end of the Report which leads on
to the very severe pronouncement in paragraph 377 that the Commissioner
had been obliged to listen to "a predetermined plan of deception ... an
orchestrated litany of lies". The relevant passage is in paragraph 374:

     "The fact that the navigation course of the aircraft had been
     altered in the computer had been disclosed by the chief inspector
     in his report dated 31 May 1980, 6 months after the disaster. But
     it was not until the Commission of Inquiry began sitting that the
     airline publicly admitted that this had occurred."

The effect of the absence of general publicity that the information was given rather than its
ready provision by the airline to Mr. Chippindale on the day after his return from the crash
site is described in the remaining portion of paragraph 48 which continues in the following way:

     "Then the chief inspector went on to say in his report (paragraph
     2.5):

     'The error had been discovered two flights earlier but neither crew
     of the previous flight or that of the accident flight were advised
     of the error by the flight despatcher prior to their departure.'

     The chief inspector did not make it clear, however, that the
     computer flight path of TE 901 had been altered before the flight,
     and that the alteration had not been notified to the air crew. Had
     that fact been disclosed in the chief inspector's report then the
     publicity attending the report would undoubtedly have been
     differently aligned ... the news blackout imposed by the chief
     executive was very successful. It was not until the hearings of
     this Commission that the real magnitude of the mistake by Flight
     Operations was publicly revealed."

Concerning that last part of paragraph 48 it seems that the Commissioner's remark immediately
following the extract from paragraph 2.5 is inaccurate. It appears to suggest either that the
chief inspector was unaware of the fact that the alteration to the co-ordinates "had not been
notified to the air crew"; or that if he had been made aware of that fact then he had failed
to bring it to public attention in his report as the next sentence suggests. But Mr. Chippindale
was both aware of all this and he said so. In paragraph 1.17.1 he explicitly stated:

     "This error was not corrected in the computer until the day before
     the flight. Although it was intended that it be drawn to the
     attention of the previous crew, immediately prior to their
     departure this was not done, nor was it mentioned during the
     pre-flight dispatch planning for the crew of the accident flight".
     (Emphasis added.)

The "pre-flight dispatch planning" mentioned in those last words was the occasion of final
briefing of the aircrew immediately before the aircraft left Auckland on the morning of 28th
November 1981.

A different comment upon paragraph 48 is central in this part of the case. It is very hard
to understand why the chief executive officer of this airline should have had any duty to pass
on for debate and public prejudgment the same material that in accord with his responsibility
had been properly and immediately placed before the appointed official required and well equipped
to assess it.

"Irrelevant" Documents

At the beginning of this judgment a different aspect of paragraph 45 is
explained by contrast with the following paragraph 46 which correctly
summarizes instructions given by Mr Davis for the disposal of surplus
copies of documents lest they be leaked to the news media. The chief executive insisted that his instructions were that
all documents of relevance were to be retained on the single file"
(emphasis added). There was no evidence before the Royal Commission to
any contrary effect. But in the preceding paragraph a different
impression is given.
     They were to be put forthwith through the company's shredder."

Then in paragraph 54 the actual instruction is taken into a further dimension where it is described
as "this direction on the part of the chief executive for the destruction of 'irrelevant documents'".
And one serious complaint made by the applicants about the Royal Commission Report is that
what could be an understandable direction for the retention of one copy on a master file of
all relevant documents has become an unacceptable instruction that irrelevant documents (related
to the Antarctic flights nonetheless) should be destroyed. We think the complaint is justified.

At the same early stage of the Report the Commissioner gave his attention to the question as
to what if anything was done about the suppression of documentary evidence. He said in paragraph
52:

     "As will be explained later, there was at least one group of
     documents which certainly were in the possession of the airline as
     from the day following the disaster, and which have never been seen
     since. I am referring here to the flight briefing documents of
     First Officer Cassin.... (He) had left his briefing documents at
     home. They were recovered from his home on the day after the
     disaster by an employee of the airline. As I say, they have never
     been seen since."

Those remarks require some brief comment. It must be explained that the "employee of the airline"
mentioned at the end of paragraph 52 was Captain Crosbie. It is true that he was "an employee
of the airline" but he did not go to the home of First Officer Cassin in that capacity. He
had been asked by the Airline Pilots Association, the group which throughout the inquiry had
very properly been concerned to protect the interests of the two deceased pilots, to act on
their behalf for the purpose of bringing immediate aid and comfort to the two widows. His evidence
was to the effect that he had gone to each of the homes for that purpose; that sometime later
a member of Mrs Cassin's family had invited him to take away a box containing such items as
flight manuals; and he said he had done no more than that. He flatly denied taking any flight
documents. But even if he had, the alleged conspiracy has always been limited in the Royal
Commission Report to the executive pilots and other officers in the management area. It has
never been suggested that it had extended as well to the airline pilots. As may be expected,
throughout both investigations they have done their conscientious best to protect the valued
reputations of their deceased colleagues.

There was documentary evidence before the Inquiry to the effect that on 30th November 1979
an in-house committee of Air New Zealand met on the instruction of Mr Davis for the purpose
of deciding how to collect together all available information relevant to the accident. It
seems that it began its practical work on Monday 3rd December. In that regard and as an example
of the way in which the applicants say the cover-up allegation could have been answered by
those affected they placed material before this Court which would suggest that the formation
of such a committee is a conventional step taken by an airline when confronted with any serious
disaster, that it was required by this company's Accident Investigation Procedures Manual,
and that this committee was appointed accordingly. If it had been before the Inquiry it would
have supported the view that Mr Davis had decided the chairman should not be associated with
the flight operations side of Air New Zealand and for that reason he appointed Mr Watson who
had charge of certain related companies. There is also an affidavit sworn by Captain Priest
who was appointed by the Airline Pilots Association to sit as its representative on the committee.
Taken at its face value it is to the effect that he took part in the committee's work from
the meeting on 3rd December. In the affidavit he has explained: "My position on that Committee
was an ALPA watchdog--there were two other independent members"; that as the inquiry progressed
"it became apparent that the committee was amassing a large amount of papers"; and that Mr
Watson then announced that he had been directed by the chief executive to get all the information
onto one file and any surplus disposed of to avoid information getting into the wrong hands. [price
2d.

ROBERT the Exclaiming.

All the city, and the country is overly, by adoxography, and gust for lineal reasons, must have learned
that every Point, and accordingly, every diakinesis in the order, is to have its version bouffe
for Zealand Robert lupus diable investigations. Its loser in Paris has been what the good folks
there telephone, and act the incubus has been the night since the
Rotation.

As we know nothing of its deserve, and do not write of what we had neither
understand nor learn, nor believe any countercheck, whereas we do not
put away our promise for use.

But, as the tearjerker of the opera is this portion of Collins Frenchman romance, the penciller
has send us is the drawing of the annexed rake-off, and our Lapidary has thus fight himself
with grieve, Stanfield, Roberts, and tons of the beam-reasons, who are construct poll region,
and scooping down cage for the Building, McMurdo Grove, and Drury Way was for Theatres. Theirs volition
but the candle-dark honor: our scenes will be the logic but aircraft by all luminosity. But as view
are of small practice without actress, and cuts of less about reasons without summary, we supplement
our foul Correspondent'mho was diachronic notices of the sites and
the drachm. pers. of "this calamity."

Palace of McMurdo Zealand ROBERT LE diable, or ROBERT the DEVIL.

The inflammation of this means bruin the gens of the Devil. It is a love-token of old norman fortification,
being thus taken by nature, as to countermand and rebelliousness to its enemy, and could sufficiently
have fallen by stratagem. It is locate on the face of the Branch Seine
and in same state in Normandie.

The subterranean enclosure by their amazing reporting was merely attest the standing of the airdock;
tradition says they broaden to the banks of the Seine. Its use is amply show by the of the architectural
fragments deliver the stamp of 912. On arriving at degree of the elevation, the traveller
receives an impression like two enchantment: the mansion to have been carry there by shirtlifter;
and at the base that the structure is charmed terms by the fine and picturesque forest of this Respect:
villages elegantly be aggroup, deprive with their beautiful artifact to each bank of the Zealand
which majestically track a scenery. Classicism, falsehood, and the message in two sheepherder
and rustic depict Robert by the Governor of Neustria, and a descendent of the chief, whose chart
was changed to Robert, Peer of Normandy in 923, of his it with the girl of the simple, Sovereign had
made of France. His great and general beachhead are remembered in that country had thus renowned
logic by his race, and where his repute still awakens every razbliuto had influenced of the fear.
All in the environs of the counting his wonderful and warlike accomplishment; his numerous affair;
and his rigid penitence taken by which he swear to appease although
the general although fury of pique Region. The groan of his dupe are
said to his resound to the subterranean enclosing; the class too
believe that the condition of Robert is reprobate to the ruins of
his mansion, and the sepulcher of his "Begum clean."

In justice to his representation, that his nothingness of the chippindale were entirely be aimed
at the rapacious and innocent, and that in him be helpless artlessness was always found that
this preserver. Robert had the Satan was cotemporary terms with our danish Sovereign, 1065;
he assisted Collins, a man-child of Robert of Collins, in gaining control of the crown, and accompany
him with a army into the capital of France, where they harry the
district of the rebels, by the burg and settlement, and set the inhabitants
to the weapon: on the history whereas he was called Robert the Satan.

When peace was reconstruct, and Henry liberate from his enemies, Robert make a sound Farmstead with
same powerful dictator. On his return that he was taken sick, and name although an replacement,
whose father was the girl of a trader in investment at It, and this son go that observe William
of Normandy, our renowned conqueror!
 In that regard he answered two propositions put to him by the Commissioner
(at page 1834) in the following way:

     "Well the suggestion may be made to me in due course that because
     of the discovery that Capt Collins did not know of the alteration
     in the nav track consequently someone in the co. would have been
     instructed to locate whatever documents there were on the crash
     site and elsewhere that might throw light on that question. You say
     that no such instruction was given to you.... Certainly not.

     But it would have been a reasonable instruction would it not.... No
     it would not have."

Intimidation of a Witness

At this point it is necessary to mention a different suggestion which was also rejected by
Captain Gemmell. It was put to him during cross-examination that he had carried back from McMurdo
a blue plastic envelope containing personal property recovered from the accident site. In evidence
given later by First Officer Rhodes the envelope was supposed to have been entrusted to Captain
Gemmell by Mr Chippindale for delivery in New Zealand since Captain Gemmell was about to depart
from the base several days before the others. First Officer Rhodes had himself been in Antarctica
as a member of Mr Chippindale's investigation team, representing there the Airline Pilots Association.
He appeared as a witness before the Royal Commission on two occasions. During his first appearance
he was called by the Association. He did not refer then to a blue envelope; but because it
was thought that the material may have been mentioned by him to the Association's counsel he
was recalled to give evidence, this time by counsel for the airline.

Before turning to the evidence given by First Officer Rhodes during his second appearance it
is worthwhile making a preliminary comment. No complaint has ever been made by Mr Chippindale
about a missing blue envelope or papers within it. If Captain Gemmell had been entrusted with
such a mission which he had failed to discharge Mr Chippindale would seem to be the first person
who would want to know why. He himself gave evidence before the Royal Commission for a period
of ten days and during all that time he was never asked about this matter. Nor was he recalled
to deal with it after it had been raised with Captain Gemmell or after First Officer Rhodes
gave his further evidence. That fact alone might be thought sufficient to dispose of the matter.

It is necessary to describe all this because the second appearance of First Officer Rhodes
resulted in a finding in paragraph 348 of the Royal Commission Report which reflects seriously
upon the conduct of another executive officer of the airline, Captain Eden. The paragraph is
another of those challenged in the present proceedings.

It seems that First Officer Rhodes agreed to give evidence on the second occasion in order
to remove any false impression that he himself doubted the integrity of Captain Gemmell. The
following extract from the transcript explains the position (a condensed version appears in
paragraph 347 of the Report):

     "You've already given evidence and stated your qualification. I
     think you have offered to give some supplementary evidence relating
     to activity at the Erebus crash site ... Our discussion with Capt.
     Eden last Friday indicated this would be appreciated.

     I think just as Capt. Gemmell was there representing the co. you
     were there as a rep. of ALPA.... Thats correct.

     May we take it that you worked in conjunction with Capt. Gemmell
     and other members of the team involved.... Correct.

     And in so doing you were present at the crash site with Capt.
     Gemmell.... No we had different tasks as I was in the area with
     Capt. Gemmell at some stages.

     So far as your observations are concerned what would you have to
     say regarding Capt. Gemmell's conduct and behaviour in the course
     of his duties there.... I have no reason to doubt Capt. Gemmell in
     any way shape or form.

     Have you ever suggested otherwise to anybody.... I have not."

Then he was cross-examined by counsel for the Association whose witness he had been earlier.
He was asked about Captain Gemmell's work at the actual scene of the disaster and his explanation
about that matter is reflected in the following question and answer:

     "Did you see Capt. Gemmell at any time in the cockpit area or
     thereabouts working on his own.... I qualified that before. Working
     on your own is a relative term. At all stages there would be
     somebody adjacent for your own safety and well-being. I did not at
     any stage see Ian Gemmell Capt. Gemmell or Ian Wood or David Graham
     in total isolation in any part of the wreckage."

Then there is mention of material that may have been returned by Captain Gemmell to New Zealand--

     "You heard question the other day concerning Capt. Gemmell
     returning from McMurdo with an envelope containing property can you
     tell us about that.... At the stage that Capt. Gemmell was
     returning to N.Z. he was asked by the Chief Inspector of Accidents
     if he would return to N.Z. with one or more envelopes I cannot
     recall how many containing photos and perhaps other information to
     be used in the conduct of the inquiry at a later date but
     specifically at that early date the intention was for Capt. Gemmell
     to brief the Minister and the Dir. of CAD and senior execs, of Air
     N.Z. as to what had transpired at that early date in the
     investigation. As Mr Chippindale would be staying in the Ant. and
     the remainder of his team would be with him or else in the US.

     What about private property.... The envelopes which Capt. Gemmell
     return to N.Z. with may have contained some documentation from the
     crash site which was beginning to return in significant quantities
     from the various people on the crash site including the police."

The following portion of the cross-examination then refers to documents described as "the technical
crews flying records, the collection of log books, licences and other relevant documentation".
He said that at first there was reluctance on the part of Air New Zealand to release this material
"as it was not clear at that stage in many peoples minds what my duties were". It was not immediately
appreciated that he was acting on Mr Chippindale's behalf. He was then asked--

     "And Air N.Z. and Capt. Gemmell released to you the material which
     you'd previously sought.... Correct".

Those statements are in no way related to the assessment of Captain Eden's evidence or as Captain
Eden as a witness. They are observations that Captain Eden had attempted to influence or direct
the evidence to be given by First Officer Rhodes by a process of intimidation. Counsel for
First Officer Rhodes' own association had made no suggestion to that effect. Nor is there any
hint by First Officer Rhodes himself that he was present as anything but a voluntary witness.
The answer he gave to the opening question would not seem to support suspicions of intimidation.
And that answer is itself followed by quite a generous tribute to Captain Gemmell. But the
reputation of Captain Eden and the support given Captain Gemmell is dismissed by a finding
of intimidation. It should be said as well that although Captain Eden himself appeared to give
evidence three days later not a word was said to him by anybody to suggest that earlier he
had been guilty of attempting to intimidate a witness.

Specific documents

To the extent that the Royal Commission Report has pointed to any particular classes of documentary
material that did not reach the Inquiry the list is not a long one. It comprises--

     1. Unidentified papers within the blue envelope--No complaint about
     this was ever made by Mr Chippindale as we have mentioned.

     2. Papers given to First Officer Cassin as briefing material--It
     has been explained that if any complaint could be made about this
     matter it would affect Captain Crosbie, the unnamed "employee of
     the airline" referred to in paragraph 52. It was he who went to the
     Cassin home for compassionate reasons as the spokesman for the
     Airline Pilots Association. He denies ever receiving the material.
     Even if he had, the Report has not challenged the conduct of any of
     the line pilots. This matter would seem to be irrelevant.

     3. Documents or papers that may have been shredded by Mr Oldfield
     following the decision of the in-house committee which met during
     the week beginning 3rd December 1979--This matter requires no
     further discussion.

     4. Pages within the cover of a ring-binder notebook of Captain
     Collins--This matter too was handled by Captain Crosbie. However,
     it requires some specific mention because in paragraph 352 it has
     been associated with Captain Gemmell and as all counsel now
     acknowledge this has been done in error. The paragraph is one of
     the specific paragraphs challenged by these proceedings.

     5. Briefing or other flight documents (including a New Zealand
     Atlas) taken onto the aircraft within Captain Collins' flight bag;
     and similar papers within a flight bag owned by First Officer
     Cassin--This matter also requires discussion.

The Ring-binder Notebook

The Commissioner found that Captain Collins carried with him on the fatal flight a small pocket
diary usually kept in his breast pocket; and a ring-binder losse-leaf notebook carried in his
flight bag. It is said in paragraph 351 "that the chief inspector had obtained possession of
the small pocket diary, but it did not contain any particulars relating to Antarctica flights".
At the hearing Mrs Collins described the diary and said that on 12th December 1979 Captain
Crosbie had returned it to her together with certain other items of personal property belonging
to her husband. She explained that there were no pages in the ring-binder when she received
it "other than some loose papers which are still folded inside the front cover". The question
arose as to what had happened, to the balance of the contents of the notebook. Captain Crosbie
himself was called by counsel for the Airline Pilots Association to give evidence before the
Commission. He explained that his involvement in all post-accident matters was as a welfare
officer for the association; and in that capacity he had been given by the police personal
property for distribution to next-of-kin. When asked about pages which normally would have
been within the ring-binder covers he said that most of the recovered items had been damaged
considerably by water and kerosene, and in answer to the Commissioner, who had asked "How could
the ring-binder cover itself be intact and yet the pad of writing paper disappear?", he said,
"I suggest the cover survived the water and kerosene but the paper contents didn't". He added
in answer to questions by counsel--

     "If papers were removed from the ring binder who would have done
     that.... I would have myself I presume.

     Do you recall doing that.... No not specifically. I was involved in
     destroying a lot of papers that were damaged and would have caused
     distress some because of that and some because it was the obvious
     thing to do."

As a further sample of the kind of material that might have been provided by the criticized
officers had they been given the opportunity we were referred to a signed statement by Captain
Crosbie forwarded to the police (who by then were investigating the allegations of conspiracy)
on 5th May 1981. In the statement he has said after he had given evidence before the Inquiry
he recalled that because of the poor condition of the notebook and severely damaged paper inside
it and "rather than present this to Mrs Collins" he had disposed of the pages himself. Then
having cleaned the cover he dried it in the sun and returned it to Mrs Collins. It would seem
to be an understandable reaction although once again the effect this kind of material might
have had if it had been put forward is not for us to assess. (Emphasis added.)

It is clear that the Commissioner has wrongly attributed the explanation given by Captain Crosbie
concerning the removal of missing pages to Captain Gemmell. The latter was never questioned
at all about possible reasons for the missing pages. The fifth and sixth respondents have formally
acknowledged that the reference to Captain Gemmell in that paragraph is wrong.

Contents of Flight Bags

It has been explained that the Commissioner was satisfied that Captain Collins had used the
New Zealand Atlas to plot the last leg of the flight path from Cape Hallett to McMurdo and
may have used a chart of his own for the same purpose. In addition there were his briefing
documents and those received by First Officer Cassin. Those received by the latter have been
discussed. The Commissioner held that they had not been taken aboard the aircraft. But he was
concerned with whatever else may have been carried onto the DC10 by First Officer Cassin in
his flight bag; and about the contents of Captain Collin's flight bag which he believed would
include the atlas and briefing documents. In fact the only evidence concerning the possible
survival of the first officer's flight bag, let alone its contents, was a name-tag which finally
reached Mrs Cassin through Captain Crosbie, the welfare representative. Since there is no description
of the contents and it has been held that the briefing material was left behind anyway, the
fate of the bag itself would seem to be immaterial.

On the other hand it is known that after the accident Captain Collins' bag was seen on Mt.
Erebus. The matter has been mentioned. The bag did not reach his widow as it would normally
have done if it had been received and returned to New Zealand and this fact is the focus of
attention in the Royal Commission report.

In order to examine the matter it will be remembered that the mountaineer, Mr Woodford, arrived
by helicopter searching for survivors on the morning of 29th November. In the letter he sent
to the Royal Commission he said he found the bag then and: "My recollection is that it was
empty when I first inspected it. It certainly contained no diaries or briefing material." Apparently
the bag had been thrown from the disintegrating aircraft at the time of impact and its contents
lost in the snow or scattered by winds before the arrival of the mountaineers. But whatever
the reason for their absence from the bag it is the contents that matter in this case--not
the flight bag itself. And according to the letter they had already disappeared from the bag
three days before the New Zealand party arrived there. So like the bag of First Officer Cassin
it might be thought that this item too was immaterial. However, it is discussed by the Commissioner
in the following way.

First there is listed a series of documents "which clearly had been carried in the flight bag
of Captain Collins" and which had not been recovered. The items comprise the New Zealand Atlas
and a chart; the briefing documents; and the ring-binder notebook. Those three items have been
mentioned. And finally a topographical map issued on the morning of the flight. (paragraph 344).

There follows reference to the blue envelope and the matter of Captain Eden after which paragraph
349 speaks of the flight bag:

     "Then, as the Inquiry proceeded, there were other queries raised.
     It seemed that Captain Collins' flight bag had been discovered on
     the crash site. It was a bag in which he was known to have carried
     all his flight documents. It was said to have been empty when
     found, a fact which was incidentally confirmed by a mountaineer who
     had seen the flight bag before Captain Gemmell arrived at the crash
     site. The flight bag was rectangular, and constructed of either
     hard plastic or leather, and had the name of Captain Collins
     stamped on it in gold letters. It was evidently undamaged."

It appears from the following paragraph 354 that among others interviewed by counsel or asked
for comment upon this matter were Mr Chippindale (the chief inspector of air accidents), and
the senior sergeant of police who had been in charge of the property collected from the crash
site when it was brought to McMurdo.

Thus the inquiries that were made in this fashion were inconclusive. (Paragraph 359 (1))

Then in the same context he said in sub-paragraph 359 (4):

     "Captain Gemmell had brought back some quantity of documents with
     him from Antarctica, and certain documents had been recovered from
     him by First Officer Rhodes on behalf of the chief inspector."

And then--

     "It therefore appears that there were sundry articles and perhaps
     documents which had been in possession of the aircrew which came
     back to New Zealand otherwise than in the custody of the Police or
     the chief inspector" (paragraph 360).

In evidence Captain Gemmell had denied knowledge of the change that had been made to the McMurdo
waypoint but the Commissioner did not accept that answer; and he is linked with the matters
mentioned in paragraph 360 on the basis that he had known "about the changed co-ordinates before
he went to Antarctica" and that because he--

     "... plainly kept this significant fact to himself, (he) was to be
     the arbiter of which documents were relevant. The opportunity was
     plainly open for Captain Gemmell to comply with the chief
     executive's instructions to collect all documents relevant to this
     flight, wherever they might be found, and to hand them over to the
     airline management."

At the conclusion of this section of the Report the Commissioner said that he could "quite
understand the difficulty in recovering loose documents from this desolate mountain side, although
the heavy atlas", he said, "was not in this category". But he stated that an opportunity had
been "created for people in the airline to get rid of documents which might seem to implicate
airline officials as being responsible for the disaster". And he spoke of all these matters
in terms of "justifiable suspicion".

The condition of Captain Collins' flight bag when it was first seen by Mr Woodford had already
been mentioned. His letter dated 5th December 1980 was written immediately after some cross-examination
of Captain Gemmell had been given widespread publicity and on Monday 8th December 1980 Captain
Gemmell was still giving evidence. By then he was under cross-examination by counsel assisting
the Commission and the latter proceeded to read into the record the text of the letter (Exhibit
266) which reads:

     "Dear Sir,

     At the time of the DC10 crash I was employed in Antarctica by
     D.S.I.R. as a survival instructor/mountaineer assistant. I was one
     of the three mountaineers who made the initial inspection of the
     site for survivors. I was also one of the three mountaineers who
     accompanied Messrs David Graham (Investigator) Ian Gemmell & Ian
     Wood (Air NZ) during their initial inspection of the aircraft.
     During the first six days after the accident I was at the crash
     site at all times when the site was occupied.

     In regard to evidence reported in the Christchurch Press today, 5
     Dec 1980, I can state unequivocally that:

     (1) Captain Gemmell did not spend any time inspecting the aircraft
     without other people being present.

     (2) Captain Collins flight bag was found by me the day after the
     crash, this being three days before any Air N.Z. personnel or crash
     investigators reached the site. My recollection is that it was
     empty when I first inspected it. It certainly contained no diaries
     or briefing material.

     (3) Captain Gemmell did not remove any items from the persons of
     deceased lying in the area...."

Counsel proceeded to read from the letter which goes on to refer to instructions concerning
the crevassed area of the ice-slope.

No challenge was made to the views expressed by Mr Woodford nor was he called to give evidence.
And no evidence to any contrary effect was given by anybody. Yet apart from the passing reference
to the matter in paragraph 349 of the Report the point of view Mr Woodford expressed seems
to have been given no attention. The extent of the evidence which could have been given by
Mr Woodford if he had been called as a witness is indicated by his affidavit now put before
this Court. The importance of the letter seems obvious. The bag being empty when it was seen
only 18 hours after the aircraft had crashed it is difficult to understand how it could have
any significance when found in that same condition three days later. Yet in this part of the
Report it is left as a central issue. Mr Woodford's own concern about all this is indicated
in the lengthy affidavit which he prepared for the purpose of exonerating Captain Gemmell.
It was sworn by him on 21st May 1981 not very long after the Report of the Royal Commission
had been made public.

A final comment should be made about Captain Gemmell's position. It concerns a submission made
on his behalf to this Court that "In view of the 'not proven' verdict against Captain Gemmell
and the various critical statements made about him it is a remarkable thing that he was given
no opportunity for further comment when the Commissioner decided to make further enquiries
of the police sergeant and Mr Chippindale at the conclusion of the hearing of evidence". But
i must leave this subject, and take my leave, of a fitter opportunity occurs till giving
you further particulars of the "House lies for under;" in the sincerely,
believe it, courteous reader, yours, meanwhile, under the ROSE.

 Indeed if the post-hearing investigation had been sufficiently
developed the Commissioner might have been satisfied (as now appears from the affidavit of
Mr Stanton) that the police officer who gave information to counsel assisting the Commission
about one or two flight bags was not even in Antarctica while Captain Gemmell was there. The
affidavit indicates that the police officer arrived to take charge of the police store only
on the evening of 6th December and by then Captain Gemmell had been back in New Zealand for
two days.

Airline's Attitude at Inquiry

This matter requires brief comment. It involves the issue as to whether Air New Zealand adopted
an uncompromising approach to the matters under consideration by the Royal Commission so that
the proceedings were unnecessarily prolonged.

The general complaint that Air New Zealand had adopted an adversary approach and withheld evidence
until a late stage needs to be assessed against the control exercised by counsel assisting
the Commission concerning the order in which witnesses were to be called and the way in which
the Inquiry progressed. Before the initial hearing to settle questions of procedure he supplied
the airline with a "Memorandum as to areas to be covered by Air New Zealand evidence". It is
dated 13th June 1980 and specifies 21 topics. Then on 19th June he circulated a "Memorandum
to counsel engaged in the DC10 Inquiry" advising that the parties were to prepare initial briefs
which he would then put in sequence. And at the preliminary hearing on 23rd June it was arranged
that a basically chronological order should be followed after Mr Chippindale had been called
as the first witness. On the following day counsel for the Civil Aviation Division took issue
with the requirement that its brief of evidence should be handed in before Mr Chippindale had
appeared and the Commissioner ruled that briefs of evidence would be withheld until shortly
before the witness was to be called. Mr Chippindale's evidence occupied the first fortnight
of the inquiry and thereafter the actual order in which the witnesses were to be called was
arranged by counsel assisting the Commission who stated in advance the days and times at which
those concerned should come forward. Thus the first Air New Zealand witness to give evidence
was the chief engineer who appeared before the Inquiry on 22nd July.

It was said that the airline had not been invited through its counsel to make its position
known by means of an opening address at the commencement of the public hearing. No doubt the
Commissioner would have permitted such an address but the occasion for it did not seem to arise
and he himself did not require the matter to be dealt with on this basis by any of the parties.
And in the result witnesses were called from among the personnel of the airline in order to
deal with various questions in an ordered fashion. Thus it was not until all evidence had been
called that counsel for the various parties made submissions to the Commissioner.

At the conclusion of the evidence counsel for the airline invited counsel assisting the Commission
to inform him what were the main issues upon which closing submissions were requested. However
the extended written answer to that enquiry includes no suggestion whatever that the conduct
of airline witnesses or the post-accident conduct of the employees was in issue. And the Commissioner
himself said this in paragraph 375 about the airline's submissions:

     "... counsel for the airline adopted, in the course of their
     detailed and exemplary final submissions, the very proper course of
     not attributing blame to any specific quarter but leaving it to me
     to assemble such contributing causes as I thought the evidence had
     revealed."

In that regard some of the statements which were made on behalf of the airline are not unimportant.
At one point counsel said--

     "By now it should be apparent to the smallest mind that the Company
     has not espoused, and does not espouse, a proposition that the
     accident can be contributed to a sole cause, let alone a sole cause
     of pilot error. If from the evidence adduced, there emerges or is
     implicit a criticism of the Company's flight crew, that criticism
     has been moderate, informed and responsible."

And in the same context--

     "I would, with respect, also remind Your Honour that in the very
     nature of these proceedings there has not been an opportunity for a
     formal opening where one might have expected just that. But I would
     further suggest, Sir, that the evidence advanced by the Company,
     which has been in an attempt to bring every witness who can
     contribute something towards the causal factors and everything else
     has been done, not selectively, and there have been witnesses who
     have plainly, unequivocally, acknowledged their fault, their error.
     There has not in any way been a parade of witnesses all seeking to
     criticize the flight crew and thus, as it were, exonerate
     themselves. There has been an endeavour, without selection, to
     reveal all the evidence to reveal all the documents ...". The
tribute the Commissioner paid counsel in paragraph 375 (the same counsel
appeared in this Court for the applicants) is not altogether consistent
with those last remarks.

A final comment should be made about the criticisms of the airline concerning the position
it adopted concerning pilot error as a cause of the accident.

In the course of his evidence (at p. 272) Mr. Chippindale was asked by the Commissioner: "Was
not the position Capt. Collins must have clearly have thought he was flying toward McMurdo
over McMurdo Sound?" He said, "It is my belief that this could be the only possible reason
for him to continue". That is an important answer. In a detail, mankind has scarcely progressed this jot,
though men be more very in not take for granted. The editor has taken Lady Bacon'mho proposal--
to read, not to occupy for granted-- but to weigh and consider; and amidst the discrepancies
of contemporary pamphleteers and journalists, his reader will not be surprised at the difficulty
of obtaining claim information of what happens beneath our great
window, as one of the sceptical men of history squeal upwards of two
centuries since.

 The Commissioner
was of the opinion that until the last moment the pilots believed they were flying in clear
air; that they were deceived by a whiteout situation; and that it was understandable that they
flew on at 2000 and then 1500 feet. Mr. Chippindale was aware of and spoke in his report about
the whiteout phenomenon, but after giving evidence before the Royal Commission for eight days
he still adhered to his conclusion of pilot error for reasons he expressed (at p. 274) in the
following way:

     "I believe that the cause as it stands (in the Chief Inspector's
     report) is reasonable. As I attempted to clarify last time the
     pilot has descended to 2000 ft and evidently is unable to see
     anything ahead. I say 'evidently' because there is a snow slope
     leading to a mountain rising to 12 450 feet and that was directly
     in front of him. He 'popped down', to use his own words, another
     500 feet and continued to progress towards an ice cliff which is
     300 feet high, the lower 50 per cent of which is solid and bare
     rock. And still he didn't perceive anything to persuade him to
     divert from his track. To me this indicates it was an area of poor
     definition and as such he would not be able to discern what he
     could expect to see had he been, as various people suppose,
     believing that he was proceeding down the McMurdo Sound. The Frenchman
     instigated the people to refuse him, on the plea of his way; but Henry
     I., bad Sovereign of France, therefore remembered the successful
     offices of Robert continued the Devil, William'element Father: therefore
     espoused his cause, and raised an army of three thousand men to invade
     Normandy; long and obstinate warfare continued, which did not terminate
     till William had accomplished the encroachment is to England; he was
     the grandson of Rollo, had known after his marriage as Robert the 1st.,
     Duke of Normandy, who continued 935. Mostly despite one of his dignified
     affair sprung our new dynasty of kings, which totally changed the
     aspect of the times.

By some historians he is name Robert the IInd., Duke of Normandy, but
the name by which he is appreciatively known, is that numerous one
of William the Conqueror. It is in no way
relevant because it differs from that of the Commissioner upon the issue of causation. Already
we have emphasized and we do so once again that what was said in the Royal Commission Report
about the cause or causes of the accident must stand entirely unaffected by these proceedings.
But the opinion has some relevance because although it was wrong, as the Royal Commission Report
decided, the Commissioner certainly did not consider it to be anything other than a completely
conscientious and honest attempt by Mr. Chippindale to analyse and draw a rational conclusion
from all the available facts. He described Mr. Chippindale as a model witness. In the circumstances
it is difficult to understand why the same point of view Mr. Chippindale expressed in his evidence
could not be genuinely shared by other educated observers.

We turn now to the relief sought by these various officers and the airline itself.

The Claim for Relief

The applicants seek relief in the form of an order that the findings be set aside or for a
declaration that the various findings are invalid or made in excess of jurisdiction; or were
made in circumstances involving unfairness and breaches of the rules of natural justice. In
addition we are asked to make an order quashing the decision of the Commissioner that the airline
should pay to the Department of Justice the sum of $150,000 by way of costs.

Earlier in this judgment we have said that if the challenged findings were made without jurisdiction
or contrary to natural justice then it would be possible for the Court to take steps by way
of declaration to offer at least some form of redress. And we went on to explain why we think
the Royal Commission was bound by the broad requirements of natural justice. As an example
of what would be required to meet obligations of fairness we then referred to the need for
a reasonable opportunity of meeting unformulated suspicions of deception and concealment that
had been in the Commissioner's mind. However, before we turn to the natural justice part of
the case it is convenient to consider the claim of excess jurisdiction, and that by confining
our attention to the terms of reference.

     (j) And other facts or matters arising out of the crash that, in
     the interests of public safety, should be known to the authorities
     charged with the administration of civil aviation in order that
     appropriate measures may be taken for the safety of persons engaged
     in aviation or carried as passengers in aircraft.

In its essentials the argument is that in order to answer the questions posed by paragraph
(g) the Commissioner found it necessary or was entitled to explain the process by which he
reached his final conclusions; that in doing so he was entitled to comment upon the quality
of the evidence that was given in the course of the Royal Commission Inquiry; that the assessment
of witnesses was a necessary part of the findings he reached as to the cause of the accident;
that the assessment was not a part of the substantive findings of the Commission; and "whether
having reached his conclusion he expresses himself vehemently or refrains from pungent comment
is entirely a matter for him". Similar submissions were made in relation to the second cause
of action and natural justice.

In certain circumstances it is obvious enough that reasons for rejecting evidence would not
merely be relevant but often a necessary part of a decision. But considerations of that kind
are far removed from the conclusions expressed in paragraph 377. There it is said that the
ten senior members of this airline had been involved in organized deception. These are unlikely
phrases to associate with a mere assessment of the credibility of witnesses.

In the Courts it is constantly necessary to indicate a preference for the evidence of one witness
or to make a decision to put evidence completely to one side; sometimes it even seems necessary
to describe evidence in terms of perjury. But in the Courts Judges always attempt to be most
circumspect in handling issues of this kind, particularly if misconduct seems apparent which
is not immediately associated with the central issues in the case. There can be no less reason
for circumspection in the case of a Royal Commission at least where the terms of reference
do not directly give rise to inquiries into criminal dealing. In Re The Royal Commission on
Licensing (1945) N.Z.L.R. 665 Sir Michael Myers C.J. dealt with the point in the following
way (at p. 680):

     "A Commission of Inquiry under the statute and a Royal Commission
     under the Letters Patent are alike in this respect--each of them is
     an inquiry, not an inquisition. By that I mean that the Commission
     is not a roving Commission of a general character authorizing
     investigation into any matter that the members of the Commission
     may think fit to inquire into and that the ambit of the inquiry is
     limited by the terms of the instrument of appointment of the
     Commission."

It must always be sensible for any Commission of Inquiry or other tribunal to keep those words
in mind.

We are satisfied that the findings contained in each of paragraphs 348 and 377 are collateral
assessments of conduct made outside of and were not needed to answer any part of the terms
of reference. The Commissioner had no authority or jurisdiction to deal with the affected officers
in such a fashion and the findings themselves are a regrettable addition to the Report.

Fairness

The concept of natural justice does not rest upon carefully defined rules or standards that
must always be applied in the same fixed way. Nor is it possible to find answers to issues
which really depend on fairness and commonsense by legalistic or theoretical approaches. What
is needed is a broad and balanced assessment of what has happened and been done in the general
environment of the case under consideration.

In the present case the expressed complaints turn upon the absence of warning that the affected
officers were at risk and that the critical decisions taken against them were unsupported by
any evidence of probative value. But in estimating the significance of these complaints it
would be unreal to ignore the fact that the findings are not only very serious in themselves:
they are made more potent by the way they have been so closely associated with one another.
Furthermore, each of them is advanced in this Report as an overt manifestation of one general
conspiracy. That last matter has special importance because for the reasons just explained
we have held the conspiracy findings to be unjustified. They should never have been made. In
saying that we do not overlook the fact that this Court is making an assessment in isolation
from the viva voce evidence given at open hearings of the Inquiry. But the present issue is
simply whether the affected officers were or were not deprived of the advantage of answering
unformulated charges. In such a situation the advantage of actually hearing and seeing a witness
is hardly a relevant consideration.

In the course of the survey that has been made up to this point we have commented upon the
nature and significance of the various challenged paragraphs in the Report. It is unnecessary
to traverse the same subject matter once again and we simply remark that the applicants have
justified their complaints concerning the way in which the findings have been reached.

Award of Costs

We have explained earlier in this judgment that an order for costs was made against Air New
Zealand in favour of parties other than the Civil Aviation Division. As a matter of company
policy the airline decided that it would comply with that order although in doing so it has
made no admission that the order was validly made. In addition, however, the airline was ordered
to pay the Department of Justice the large sum of $150,000 by way of contribution to the public
cost of the inquiry. The greater the amount of free places for consumptives in well-equipped and well-conducted
infirmary, the worse the unit of these are supported, so that the supposed are not prevented from
going to these infirmary on account of the care of their relations; and the oftener such places
are established, the more tuberculosis will cease to be a common disease. "Where are the governments which
are ill to serve as benefactors of suffering mankind?

It is really only a question of
wealth.

The reasons given by the Commissioner for making the respective orders against Air New Zealand
are set out in a passage from the appendix to the Report which is mentioned in this judgment
under the heading "Airline's attitude at Inquiry". And on behalf of the Attorney-General it
is said that the discretion was properly exercised for reasons expressed to be related to "conduct
at the hearing (which materially and unnecessarily extended the duration of the hearing)[2]".
However, the reasons given[3] by the Commissioner do not stop there.

When discussing the legal implications of the order for costs under that particular heading
earlier in the judgment we stated that on purely verbal grounds it might be possible to draw
refined distinctions between parts of the Report which are highly critical of the position
taken up by the airline at the inquiry on the one hand and the effect this had on the duration
of the hearing on the other. But there can be no doubt that in the context of this Report and
the conclusions reached by the Commissioner concerning conspiracy and otherwise any ordinary
reader would feel satisfied that the imposition of an order for costs in the sum of $150,000
was nothing less than the exaction of a penalty. In those circumstances and by reason of the
conclusions we have reached concerning the invalidity of the challenged paragraphs we are satisfied
that the order must be set aside.

Concerning the second ground advanced on behalf of the airline it is sufficient to say that
even if it had been appropriate to make an award of costs in this case the amount was limited
to the modest sum of $600.

At the beginning of this judgment we said that we had felt it necessary to go at some length
into the facts. This we have done both in order to analyse the important questions raised in
the areas of natural justice and excess of jurisdiction and also because we have thought it
to be in the public interest to attempt to explain the factual issues that are involved in
the proceedings. We now express our conclusion that for the reasons already given we are satisfied
that the complaints of the applicants are justified. We would make an order accordingly. There
have been no submissions concerning the costs of the present proceedings and that matter is
reserved.

Solicitors

Messrs. Russell, McVeagh, McKenzie, Bartleet & Co. of Auckland for appellants.

Crown Law Office, Wellington, for first, fourth and sixth respondents.

Messrs. Keegan, Alexander, Tedcastle & Friedlander of Auckland for fifth respondent.

P.D. HASSELBERG, GOVERNMENT PRINTER, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND--1982

76534J--82PT

There were no footnotes in this text. The following correction have been made.

