Early the next morning we walked through a number of streets in the place, and saw certain
sights. The Park is very pretty, and all the buildings round about it have an air of neatness--almost
of stateliness. The houses are tall, the streets spacious, and the roads extremely clean. In
the Park is a little theatre, a cafe somewhat ruinous, a little palace for the king of this
little kingdom, some smart public buildings (with S. P. Q. B. emblazoned on them, at which
pompous inscription one cannot help laughing), and other rows of houses somewhat resembling
a little Rue de Rivoli. Whether from my own natural greatness and magnanimity, or from that
handsome share of national conceit that every Englishman possesses, my impressions of this
city are certainly anything but respectful. It has an absurd kind of Lilliput look with it.
There are soldiers, just as in Paris, better dressed, and doing a vast deal of drumming and
bustle; and yet, somehow, far from being frightened at them, I feel inclined to laugh in their
faces. There are little Ministers, who work at their little bureaux; and to read the journals,
how fierce they are! A great thundering Times could hardly talk more big. One reads about the
rascally Ministers, the miserable Opposition, the designs of tyrants, the eyes of Europe, &c.,
just as one would in real journals. The Moniteur of Ghent belabors the Independent of Brussels;
the Independent falls foul of the Lynx; and really it is difficult not to suppose sometimes
that these worthy people are in earnest. And yet how happy were they sua si bona norint! Think
what a comfort it would be to belong to a little state like this; not to abuse their privilege,
but philosophically to use it. If I were a Belgian, I would not care one single fig about politics.
I would not read thundering leading-articles. I would not have an opinion. What's the use of
an opinion here? Happy fellows! do not the French, the English, and the Prussians, spare them
the trouble of thinking, and make all their opinions for them? Think of living in a country
free, easy, respectable, wealthy, and with the nuisance of talking politics removed from out
of it. All this might the Belgians have, and a part do they enjoy, but not the best part; no,
these people will be brawling and by the ears, and parties run as high here as at Stoke Pogis
or little Pedlington.

These sentiments were elicited by the reading of a paper at the cafe in the Park, where we
sat under the trees for a while and sipped our cool lemonade. Numbers of statues decorate the
place, the very worst I ever saw. These Cupids must have been erected in the time of the Dutch
dynasty, as I judge from the immense posterior developments. Indeed the arts of the country
are very low. The statues here, and the lions before the Prince of Orange's palace, would disgrace
almost the figurehead of a ship.

Of course we paid our visit to this little lion of Brussels (the Prince's palace, I mean).
The architecture of the building is admirably simple and firm; and you remark about it, and
all other works here, a high finish in doors, wood-works, paintings, &c., that one does not
see in France, where the buildings are often rather sketched than completed, and the artist
seems to neglect the limbs, as it were, and extremities of his figures.

The finish of this little place is exquisite. We went through some dozen of state-rooms, paddling
along over the slippery floors of inlaid woods in great slippers, without which we must have
come to the ground. How did his Royal Highness the Prince of Orange manage when he lived here,
and her Imperial Highness the Princess, and their excellencies the chamberlains and the footmen?
They must have been on their tails many times a day, that's certain, and must have cut queer
figures.

The ball-room is beautiful--all marble, and yet with a comfortable, cheerful look; the other
apartments are not less agreeable, and the people looked with intense satisfaction at some
great lapis-lazuli tables, which the guide informed us were worth four millions, more or less;
adding with a very knowing look, that they were un peu plus cher que l'or. This speech has
a tremendous effect on visitors, and when we met some of our steamboat companions in the Park
or elsewhere--in so small a place as this one falls in with them a dozen times a day--"Have
you seen the tables?" was the general question. Prodigious tables are they, indeed! Fancy a
table, my dear--a table four feet wide--a table with legs. Ye heavens! the mind can hardly
picture to itself anything so beautiful and so tremendous!

There are some good pictures in the palace, too, but not so extraordinarily good as the guide-books
and the guide would have us to think. The latter, like most men of his class, is an ignoramus,
who showed us an Andrea del Sarto (copy or original), and called it a Correggio, and made other
blunders of a like nature. As is the case in England, you are hurried through the rooms without
being allowed time to look at the pictures, and, consequently, to pronounce a satisfactory
judgment on them.

In the Museum more time was granted me, and I spent some hours with pleasure there. It is an
absurd little gallery, absurdly imitating the Louvre, with just such compartments and pillars
as you see in the noble Paris gallery; only here the pillars and capitals are stucco and white
in place of marble and gold, and plaster-of-paris busts of great Belgians are placed between
the pillars. An artist of the country has made a picture containing them, and you will be ashamed
of your ignorance when you hear many of their names. Old Tilly of Magdeburg figures in one
corner; Rubens, the endless Rubens, stands in the midst. What a noble countenance it is, and
what a manly, swaggering consciousness of power!

The picture to see here is a portrait, by the great Peter Paul, of one of the governesses of
the Netherlands. It is just the finest portrait that ever was seen. Only a half-length, but
such a majesty, such a force, such a splendor, such a simplicity about it! The woman is in
a stiff black dress, with a ruff and a few pearls; a yellow curtain is behind her--the simplest
arrangement that can be conceived; but this great man knew how to rise to his occasion; and
no better proof can be shown of what a fine gentleman he was than this his homage to the vice-Queen.
A common bungler would have painted her in her best clothes, with crown and sceptre, just as
our Queen has been painted by--but comparisons are odious. Here stands this majestic woman
in her every-day working-dress of black satin, LOOKING YOUR HAT OFF, as it were. Another portrait
of the same personage hangs elsewhere in the gallery, and it is curious to observe the difference
between the two, and see how a man of genius paints a portrait, and how a common limner executes
it.

Many more pictures are there here by Rubens, or rather from Rubens's manufactory,--odious and
vulgar most of them are; fat Magdalens, coarse Saints, vulgar Virgins, with the scene-painter's
tricks far too evident upon the canvas. By the side of one of the most astonishing color-pieces
in the world, the "Worshipping of the Magi," is a famous picture of Paul Veronese that cannot
be too much admired. As Rubens sought in the first picture to dazzle and astonish by gorgeous
variety, Paul in his seems to wish to get his effect by simplicity, and has produced the most
noble harmony that can be conceived. Many more works are there that merit notice,--a singularly
clever, brilliant, and odious Jordaens, for example; some curious costume-pieces; one or two
works by the Belgian Raphael, who was a very Belgian Raphael, indeed; and a long gallery of
pictures of the very oldest school, that, doubtless, afford much pleasure to the amateurs of
ancient art. I confess that I am inclined to believe in very little that existed before the
time of Raphael. There is, for instance, the Prince of Orange's picture by Perugino, very pretty
indeed, up to a certain point, but all the heads are repeated, all the drawing is bad and affected;
and this very badness and affectation, is what the so-called Catholic school is always anxious
to imitate. Nothing can be more juvenile or paltry than the works of the native Belgians here
exhibited. Tin crowns are suspended over many of them, showing that the pictures are prize
compositions: and pretty things, indeed, they are! Have you ever read an Oxford prize-poem!
Well, these pictures are worse even than the Oxford poems--an awful assertion to make.

In the matter of eating, dear sir, which is the next subject of the fine arts, a subject that,
after many hours' walking, attracts a gentleman very much, let me attempt to recall the transactions
of this very day at the table-d'-hote. 1, green pea-soup; 2, boiled salmon; 3, mussels; 4,
crimped skate; 5, roast-meat; 6, patties; 7, melons; 8, carp, stewed with mushrooms and onions;
9, roast-turkey; 10, cauliflower and butter; 11, fillets of venison piques, with asafoetida
sauce; 12, stewed calf's-ear; 13, roast-veal; 14, roast-lamb; 15, stewed cherries; 16, rice-pudding;
17, Gruyere cheese, and about twenty-four cakes of different kinds. Except 5, 13, and 14, I
give you my word I ate of all written down here, with three rolls of bread and a score of potatoes.
What is the meaning of it? How is the stomach of man to be brought to desire and to receive
all this quantity? Do not gastronomists complain of heaviness in London after eating a couple
of mutton-chops? Do not respectable gentlemen fall asleep in their arm-chairs? Are they fit
for mental labor? Far from it. But look at the difference here: after dinner here one is as
light as a gossamer. One walks with pleasure, reads with pleasure, writes with pleasure--nay,
there is the supper-bell going at ten o'clock, and plenty of eaters, too. Let lord mayors and
aldermen look to it, this fact of the extraordinary increase of appetite in Belgium, and, instead
of steaming to Blackwall, come a little further to Antwerp.

Of ancient architectures in the place, there is a fine old Port de Halle, which has a tall,
gloomy, bastille look; a most magnificent town-hall, that has been sketched a thousand of times,
and opposite it, a building that I think would be the very model for a Conservative club-house
in London. Oh! how charming it would be to be a great painter, and give the character of the
building, and the numberless groups round about it. The booths lighted up by the sun, the market-women
in their gowns of brilliant hue, each group having a character and telling its little story,
the troops of men lolling in all sorts of admirable attitudes of ease round the great lamp.
Half a dozen light-blue dragoons are lounging about, and peeping over the artist as the drawing
is made, and the sky is more bright and blue than one sees it in a hundred years in London.

The priests of the country are a remarkably well-fed and respectable race, without that scowling,
hang-dog look which one has remarked among reverend gentlemen in the neighboring country of
France. Their reverences wear buckles to their shoes, light-blue neck-cloths, and huge three-cornered
hats in good condition. To-day, strolling by the cathedral, I heard the tinkling of a bell
in the street, and beheld certain persons, male and female, suddenly plump down on their knees
before a little procession that was passing. Two men in black held a tawdry red canopy, a priest
walked beneath it holding the sacrament covered with a cloth, and before him marched a couple
of little altar-boys in short white surplices, such as you see in Rubens, and holding lacquered
lamps. A small train of street-boys followed the procession, cap in hand, and the clergyman
finally entered a hospital for old women, near the church, the canopy and the lamp-bearers
remaining without.

It was a touching scene, and as I stayed to watch it, I could not but think of the poor old
soul who was dying within, listening to the last words of prayer, led by the hand of the priest
to the brink of the black fathomless grave. How bright the sun was shining without all the
time, and how happy and careless every thing around us looked!

The Duke d'Arenberg has a picture-gallery worthy of his princely house. It does not contain
great pieces, but tit-bits of pictures, such as suit an aristocratic epicure. For such persons
a great huge canvas is too much, it is like sitting down alone to a roasted ox; and they do
wisely, I think, to patronize small, high-flavored, delicate morceaux, such as the Duke has here.

Among them may be mentioned, with special praise, a magnificent small Rembrandt, a Paul Potter
of exceeding minuteness and beauty, an Ostade, which reminds one of Wilkie's early performances,
and a Dusart quite as good as Ostade. There is a Berghem, much more unaffected than that artist's
works generally are; and, what is more, precious in the eyes of many ladies as an object of
art, there is, in one of the grand saloons, some needlework done by the Duke's own grandmother,
which is looked at with awe by those admitted to see the palace.

The chief curiosity, if not the chief ornament of a very elegant library, filled with vases
and bronzes, is a marble head, supposed to be the original head of the Laocoon. It is, unquestionably
a finer head than that which at present figures upon the shoulders of the famous statue. The
expression of woe is more manly and intense; in the group as we know it, the head of the principal
figure has always seemed to me to be a grimace of grief, as are the two accompanying young
gentlemen with their pretty attitudes, and their little silly, open-mouthed despondency. It
has always had upon me the effect of a trick, that statue, and not of a piece of true art.
It would look well in the vista of a garden; it is not august enough for a temple, with all
its jerks and twirls, and polite convulsions. But who knows what susceptibilities such a confession
may offend? Let us say no more about the Laocoon, nor its head, nor its tail. The Duke was
offered its weight in gold, they say, for this head, and refused. It would be a shame to speak
ill of such a treasure, but I have my opinion of the man who made the offer.

In the matter of sculpture almost all the Brussels churches are decorated with the most laborious
wooden pulpits, which may be worth their weight in gold, too, for what I know, including his
reverence preaching inside. At St. Gudule the preacher mounts into no less a place than the
garden of Eden, being supported by Adam and Eve, by Sin and Death, and numberless other animals;
he walks up to his desk by a rustic railing of flowers, fruits, and vegetables, with wooden
peacocks, paroquets, monkeys biting apples, and many more of the birds and beasts of the field.
In another church the clergyman speaks from out a hermitage; in a third from a carved palm-tree,
which supports a set of oak clouds that form the canopy of the pulpit, and are, indeed, not
much heavier in appearance than so many huge sponges. A priest, however tall or stout, must
be lost in the midst of all these queer gimcracks; in order to be consistent, they ought to
dress him up, too, in some odd fantastical suit. I can fancy the Cure of Meudon preaching out
of such a place, or the Rev. Sydney Smith, or that famous clergyman of the time of the League,
who brought all Paris to laugh and listen to him.

But let us not be too supercilious and ready to sneer. It is only bad taste. It may have been
very true devotion which erected these strange edifices.

II.--GHENT--BRUGES.

GHENT. (1840.)

The Beguine College or Village is one of the most extraordinary sights that all Europe can
show. On the confines of the town of Ghent you come upon an old-fashioned brick gate, that
seems as if it were one of the city barriers; but, on passing it, one of the prettiest sights
possible meets the eye: At the porter's lodge you see an old lady, in black and a white hood,
occupied over her book; before you is a red church with a tall roof and fantastical Dutch pinnacles,
and all around it rows upon rows of small houses, the queerest, neatest, nicest that ever were
seen (a doll's house is hardly smaller or prettier). Right and left, on each side of little
alleys, these little mansions rise; they have a courtlet before them, in which some green plants
or hollyhocks are growing; and to each house is a gate, that has mostly a picture or queer-carved
ornament upon or about it, and bears the name, not of the Beguine who inhabits it, but of the
saint to whom she may have devoted it--the house of St. Stephen, the house of St. Donatus,
the English or Angel Convent, and so on. Old ladies in black are pacing in the quiet alleys
here and there, and drop the stranger a curtsy as he passes them and takes off his hat. Never
were such patterns of neatness seen as these old ladies and their houses. I peeped into one
or two of the chambers, of which the windows were open to the pleasant evening sun, and saw
beds scrupulously plain, a quaint old chair or two, and little pictures of favorite saints
decorating the spotless white walls. The old ladies kept up a quick, cheerful clatter, as they
paused to gossip at the gates of their little domiciles; and with a great deal of artifice,
and lurking behind walls, and looking at the church as if I intended to design that, I managed
to get a sketch of a couple of them.

But what white paper can render the whiteness of their linen; what black ink can do justice
to the lustre of their gowns and shoes? Both of the ladies had a neat ankle and a tight stocking;
and I fancy that heaven is quite as well served in this costume as in the dress of a scowling,
stockingless friar, whom I had seen passing just before. The look and dress of the man made
me shudder. His great red feet were bound up in a shoe open at the toes, a kind of compromise
for a sandal. I had just seen him and his brethren at the Dominican Church, where a mass of
music was sung, and orange-trees, flags, and banners decked the aisle of the church.

One begins to grow sick of these churches, and the hideous exhibitions of bodily agonies that
are depicted on the sides of all the chapels. Into one wherein we went this morning was what
they called a Calvary: a horrible, ghastly image of a Christ in a tomb, the figure of the natural
size, and of the livid color of death; gaping red wounds on the body and round the brows: the
whole piece enough to turn one sick, and fit only to brutalize the beholder of it. The Virgin
is commonly represented with a dozen swords stuck in her heart; bleeding throats of headless
John Baptists are perpetually thrust before your eyes. At the Cathedral gate was a papier-mache
church-ornament shop--most of the carvings and reliefs of the same dismal character: one, for
instance, represented a heart with a great gash in it, and a double row of large blood-drops
dribbling from it; nails and a knife were thrust into the heart; round the whole was a crown
of thorns. Such things are dreadful to think of. The same gloomy spirit which made a religion
of them, and worked upon the people by the grossest of all means, terror, distracted the natural
feelings of man to maintain its power--shut gentle women into lonely, pitiless convents--frightened
poor peasants with tales of torment--taught that the end and labor of life was silence, wretchedness,
and the scourge--murdered those by fagot and prison who thought otherwise. How has the blind
and furious bigotry of man perverted that which God gave us as our greatest boon, and bid us
hate where God bade us love! Thank heaven that monk has gone out of sight! It is pleasant to
look at the smiling, cheerful old Beguine, and think no more of yonder livid face.

One of the many convents in this little religious city seems to be the specimen-house, which
is shown to strangers, for all the guides conduct you thither, and I saw in a book kept for
the purpose the names of innumerable Smiths and Joneses registered.

A very kind, sweet-voiced, smiling nun (I wonder, do they always choose the most agreeable
and best-humored sister of the house to show it to strangers?) came tripping down the steps
and across the flags of the little garden-court, and welcomed us with much courtesy into the
neat little old-fashioned, red-bricked, gable-ended, shining-windowed Convent of the Angels.
First she showed us a whitewashed parlor, decorated with a grim picture or two and some crucifixes
and other religious emblems, where, upon stiff old chairs, the sisters sit and work. Three
or four of them were still there, pattering over their laces and bobbins; but the chief part
of the sisterhood were engaged in an apartment hard by, from which issued a certain odor which
I must say resembled onions: it was in fact the kitchen of the establishment.

Every Beguine cooks her own little dinner in her own little pipkin; and there was half a score
of them, sure enough, busy over their pots and crockery, cooking a repast which, when ready,
was carried off to a neighboring room, the refectory, where, at a ledge-table which is drawn
out from under her own particular cupboard, each nun sits down and eats her meal in silence.
More religious emblems ornamented the carved cupboard-doors, and within, everything was as
neat as neat could be: shining pewter-ewers and glasses, snug baskets of eggs and pats of butter,
and little bowls with about a farthing's-worth of green tea in them--for some great day of
fete, doubtless. The old ladies sat round as we examined these things, each eating soberly
at her ledge and never looking round. There was a bell ringing in the chapel hard by. "Hark!"
said our guide, "that is one of the sisters dying. Will you come up and see the cells?"

The cells, it need not be said, are the snuggest little nests in the world, with serge-curtained
beds and snowy linen, and saints and martyrs pinned against the wall. "We may sit up till twelve
o'clock, if we like," said the nun; "but we have no fire and candle, and so what's the use
of sitting up? When we have said our prayers we are glad enough to go to sleep."

I forget, although the good soul told us, how many times in the day, in public and in private,
these devotions are made, but fancy that the morning service in the chapel takes place at too
early an hour for most easy travellers. We did not fail to attend in the evening, when likewise
is a general muster of the seven hundred, minus the absent and sick, and the sight is not a
little curious and striking to a stranger.

The chapel is a very big whitewashed place of worship, supported by half a dozen columns on
either side, over each of which stands the statue of an Apostle, with his emblem of martyrdom.
Nobody was as yet at the distant altar, which was too far off to see very distinctly; but I
could perceive two statues over it, one of which (St. Laurence, no doubt) was leaning upon
a huge gilt gridiron that the sun lighted up in a blaze--a painful but not a romantic instrument
of death. A couple of old ladies in white hoods were tugging and swaying about at two bell-ropes
that came down into the middle of the church, and at least five hundred others in white veils
were seated all round about us in mute contemplation until the service began, looking very
solemn, and white, and ghastly, like an army of tombstones by moonlight.

The service commenced as the clock finished striking seven: the organ pealed out, a very cracked
and old one, and presently some weak old voice from the choir overhead quavered out a canticle;
which done, a thin old voice of a priest at the altar far off (and which had now become quite
gloomy in the sunset) chanted feebly another part of the service; then the nuns warbled once
more overhead; and it was curious to hear, in the intervals of the most lugubrious chants,
how the organ went off with some extremely cheerful military or profane air. At one time was
a march, at another a quick tune; which ceasing, the old nuns began again, and so sung until
the service was ended.

In the midst of it one of the white-veiled sisters approached us with a very mysterious air,
and put down her white veil close to our ears and whispered. Were we doing anything wrong,
I wondered? Were they come to that part of the service where heretics and infidels ought to
quit the church? What have you to ask, O sacred, white-veiled maid?

All she said was, "Deux centiemes pour les suisses," which sum was paid; and presently the
old ladies, rising from their chairs one by one, came in face of the altar, where they knelt
down and said a short prayer; then, rising, unpinned their veils, and folded them up all exactly
in the same folds and fashion, and laid them square like napkins on their heads, and tucked
up their long black outer dresses, and trudged off to their convents.

The novices wear black veils, under one of which I saw a young, sad, handsome face; it was
the only thing in the establishment that was the least romantic or gloomy: and, for the sake
of any reader of a sentimental turn, let us hope that the poor soul has been crossed in love,
and that over some soul-stirring tragedy that black curtain has fallen.

Ghent has, I believe, been called a vulgar Venice. It contains dirty canals and old houses
that must satisfy the most eager antiquary, though the buildings are not quite in so good preservation
as others that may be seen in the Netherlands. The commercial bustle of the place seems considerable,
and it contains more beer-shops than any city I ever saw.

These beer-shops seem the only amusement of the inhabitants, until, at least, the theatre shall
be built, of which the elevation is now complete, a very handsome and extensive pile. There
are beer-shops in the cellars of the houses, which are frequented, it is to be presumed, by
the lower sort; there are beer-shops at the barriers, where the citizens and their families
repair; and beer-shops in the town, glaring with gas, with long gauze blinds, however, to hide
what I hear is a rather questionable reputation.

Our inn, the "Hotel of the Post," a spacious and comfortable residence, is on a little place
planted round with trees, and that seems to be the Palais Royal of the town. Three clubs, which
look from without to be very comfortable, ornament this square with their gas-lamps. Here stands,
too, the theatre that is to be; there is a cafe, and on evenings a military band plays the
very worst music I ever remember to have heard. I went out to-night to take a quiet walk upon
this place, and the horrid brazen discord of these trumpeters set me half mad.

