A Man who keeps an Half-Crown or Twelve-penny Ordinary, looks not more for Money from his Customers,
than a Footman does from every Guest that dines or sups with his Master; and I question whether
the one does not often think a Shilling or Half a Crown, according to the Quality of the Person,
his Due as much as the other. I have seen a decay'd Gentleman of as antient and honourable
a Family as any in the Kingdom, sit in great pain at a Person of Quality's Table for want of
Half a Crown in his Pocket to pay the Butler and Footman for his Dinner. And if a Person is
known to fail in this respect, the next time he comes to the House, he is sure to have the
Look which a Court Table-keeper bestows upon a hungry Poet or an Officer in Half-pay, who shall
be invited by any Gentleman-Waiter to Dinner, fix'd on him all the time he is eating.

People in the middle Station of Life must pay as regularly for their Admission to the Persons
of the Great, as those do who enter into beneficial Offices and Places. I have been informed,
that there is affix'd up in several Ale-houses and other publick Places where Servants resort
to at the other End of the Town, a List or Table of Fees to be taken by Noblemen's Porters,
Footmen, and Valets de Chambre, for People's having Access to their Masters, viz.

For a Tradesman to be heard            } l.  s.  d. vivâ voce, upon the Subject of a     }
0    10     6 large Debt of a long standing,         }

For a poor Clergyman supplicating      } a Chaplainship, or any other           }  0     5
0 Ecclesiastical Preferment.             }

For a Poet to present a Dedication        0     2     6

For a Mercer or Draper to              } exhibit a choice new Pattern.          }  0     2     0

For a Person's obtaining the           } Promise of a Place.                  }  0     5     0

For every Tradesman's Bill that        } is suffered to lie upon the Table for  }  0     1
0 my Lord and Lady's Perusal.            }

For every paid-off Bill above Ten      } Pounds                                 }  0    10     0

If any Tradesman has been injuriously treated by the Steward or the House-keeper, who seldom
stand high in the Esteem of these lower Domesticks, the Fees are then dispensed with, and they
are admitted gratis, or more properly in forma Pauperis, because the Complaint may prove of
such a nature, as to bring about a Change in the Ministry of the House, and be the Means of
an insolent, haughty, over-bearing Spirit being dismiss'd the Family, and Te Deum sung in the
Kitchen and the other lower Offices for a Revolution above-stairs.

A Man stone-blind may as soon attempt to view the Sun, as a Tradesman or a Pauper to attempt
the sight of a Great Man without paying the above Dues; for my Lord shall at one time be very
ill, and at another just gone out: one Day he is indisposed, and rested badly, and another
Day better, but sees no Company; and have these constant regular Intermissions of Sickness
and Health for three or four Months together.

Sometimes Credit has indeed been given in these Cases, but then they have known, and been pretty
sure of their Men. A Gentleman, who had many times met with these Put-offs at the Door of a
Nobleman, came one day to the Porter with two Half-Crown Pieces, chinking them from one Hand
to the other, upon which his Lordship happened to be at home. Having got his Pass to him, and
done his Business, he return'd thro' the Hall with the Money in his Pocket, smiling upon the
Porter, who he had thus decently deceiv'd.

A Widow, who had once sold a Fan of Half a Guinea Price to a Person of Quality, the Porter
refused to let her go out of the Door without paying her Fee, and kept her in durance. She
desired to know his Demands; he told her, a Shilling: Upon this, she gave him a Crown, bidding
him give her Change, which he did. It happen'd to be a Brass Piece, which he not perceiving,
the Woman got out in haste, to avoid being detected; but when she came to look on her Money,
she found the Fellow had given her four Leaden Shillings in the change of it.

The Duties of Tonnage and Poundage, which the Upper Servants, as they call themselves, have
imposed upon Tradesmen who serve the Families that entertain them, are very far from being
thought sufficient and satisfactory. For besides a Butcher, Poulterer, or Fishmonger's being
at the constant beck of the Clerk to a Kitchin, or the Groom of a Chamber, to follow him to
a Tavern in the Morning, and bring something that's pretty, to compose a Breakfast for two
or three hungry Fellows out of Business, as he shall have in his Company, they must, I say,
moreover learn the Art of Brewing, and keep constantly a Cup of good nappy Ale in their Houses,
to entertain the Cook, and all the other Gentry of the Kitchen, when they shall please to make
a Visit. A Tradesman must lend his Money, pass his Word, stand Bail for Arrests, and Sponsor
at Christenings, and now and then be a Surety to the Parish for a Bastard Child. He must do
all this, and a great deal more, or else every thing he furnishes shall be found fault with:
They shall tell him what application has been made by others for the Custom, what pains they
have taken to defeat it, and how often they are forc'd to stand in the Gap for him, when his
Goods have been complain'd of, and his Discharge actually order'd.

A Coachmaker once assured me, that he seldom made a Coach or Chariot for any Person of great
Quality, but that what with the chief of the Men-servants running after himself, and the Women-servants
after his Wife, he has been put to such an Expence, as would have fairly bought a pair of Horses
to have drawn the Equipage.

As many of our News-Papers are charged with playing Tricks with the Publick, I shall make bold
to mention a few of them; and they are chiefly these, Falsity, Absurdity, and Trifling. We
are frequently amused with the Lives and Actions of Persons that were never born; and with
the Deaths of those that never liv'd; and large Estates devis'd by People that never enjoy'd
them, nor indeed ever claim'd any Right so to do.

An Author, in the Morning, gives us an Account of the Death of a Person of Note and Eminence,
whose Condition hath entitled him to a Place in his Paper; he tells us the Place, Day, Hour,
and the Minute he expir'd, with a long detail of the Fortune and Merit he was possessed of.
A Writer for the Evening enters his Caveat against some Particulars of the Fact, and declares
his Brother hath had an ill Information; for that the Party did not depart at the Time mention'd
in his Paper, and that himself only is in possession of the truth; and avers, that it happen'd
above half an Hour after that Time, and at a different Place than what the other has reported
it. The next Day a Third starts up, with a grievous Complaint of the Town's being impos'd upon,
and triumphs in a more genuine and exact Account than either of 'em. He insists upon it, that
he did not fairly leave the World till full fourteen Minutes and fifty nine Seconds after the
time both the others have brought it down to; and moreover maintains, that the Demise in dispute
happen'd at a Seat in the Country, and not at an House in the Town, as has been falsly publish'd
in the other Papers.

They are now all together by the ears about settling of the Will, and disposing of the Estate.
After a great deal of wrangling upon those Heads, they begin to consider that the Corpse must
have Christian Burial; they turn their Thoughts to that Point, and begin to settle the Funeral.
One Author is for its lying in State; another will not come into it, but declares for a private
Interment. At last a Writer buries it in a most magnificent manner, in a Church some Miles
distant from London; and his Antagonist performs the Funeral at another Church fifty Miles
farther than that, and in a more decent way. Next a Paper gives us the Names of those that
supported the Pall, together with who was the chief Mourner. This is so provoking to him who
could not lay hold on this Intelligence in time, that he is resolv'd to be even with his Rival;
so that the next News we hear, are the Heads of the Sermon that was preach'd at the Funeral.

The Friends and Acquaintance of the Deceas'd, that may be remote from the Town, and have nothing
else to govern them but these Advices, believe the main of them; and notwithstanding their
Perplexities and Variation, all credit the Death of their old Friend, and begin to descant
on the Actions of his Life, some conjecturing what he must have died worth, and what a Man
he might have been, was it not for such a Failing; and others, how long they had remembred
and been acquainted with him, &c.

When the Story has gone this length, and begins to be old, and almost obliterated, the News-Paper
that was most forward in publishing it, to the astonishment of all Mankind, cries out peccavi,
and confesses how he was imposed on; acknowledges his Sorrow and Contrition, and heartily begs
Pardon of the Publick, and the Person, whom he now maintains to be alive, and in good health;
and says, that the Report of his Death, as publish'd in his, and OTHER PAPERS, is entirely
false, groundless, and without any manner of Foundation.

There have been Instances of Women who have been frighten'd into Miscarriages, and some even
to Death, at the unexpected Visits of their Friends, (whom, upon the Credit of the Papers)
they have verily believed to have been as really dead as their great Grandmothers were. A Lady
of Quality, that is become superannuated, is not to confine herself to Books of Devotion alone;
People are not born for themselves only; no, no, as ancient as she is, she must yet do some
Service to the Society. Says an Author, what, Shall her Grace fancy herself as hail at Fourscore
as she was at Forty? Accordingly, he lends her his Hand, and she is led very dangerously ill
into his Paper. The next Morning he is obliged to retract it, and so the Publick are Gainers
two Paragraphs by it.

Nor shall a Lord Spiritual or Temporal, that has attain'd his Grand Climacterical Year, and
yet remains in a good state of Mind and Body, lie idle, but must occasionally be extremely
ill, attended by sundry Physicians, and given over; when a Dearth of Tales and Tidings shall
cause a Chasm in the Paper. The Persons so mention'd, read these Relations themselves, and
oftentimes with much pleasure, because they receive a real Benefit by 'em: for they divert
the Spleen and Vapours, natural to old Age, and so prove a happy Means of preserving them alive,
much longer than some People perhaps may care for.

A noble Lord, in a high Station, that is pretty far advanced in Years, never rises from his
Bed, but asks, Am I in the Papers? For it has been an Observation made by most People, that
his Name has been made use of for being greatly indispos'd; finely mended; dangerously relaps'd;
in a fair way of Recovery; going to, and returning from the Country; and being sent for by
Expresses to assist at Councils, that have not been held, and Boards that have not met, on
Business of great Importance, constantly de Die in Diem, in one Paper or other, for several
years together.

A Man may better venture to take a Purse from a Merchant upon Change, than a Judge to take
an airing in his Coach, without being taken into Custody of a News-Writer for it. I have known
them give such minute Accounts of the times of the Judges setting out for this Place and from
that Place in their private Capacities, that some of them have actually suspended their Journeys,
to prevent Highway-mens taking the Hint, and lying in ambush for them on the Roads.

I am told of a certain Great Man who hath been most grosly affronted and vilify'd by certain
Papers from Week to Week, Month to Month, and from Year to Year, for a very long Series of
Time; and who hath publickly declar'd, that nothing shall provoke him to depart from a Maxim
which he has long laid down, viz. That 'tis better one Man be perpetually abus'd, than Thousands
perish.

About Michaelmas, an Author has told us in Print, he was assured that Christmas-Day would be
on the 25th of December following. If the Man has not been starv'd before the time, but surviv'd
to St. Stephen's Day, and seen his wonderful Prediction happen and come to pass; 'tis pleasant
to observe, how he glories and exults in his next Paper, telling us, It is agreeable to what
was formerly publish'd in his, and in no other Paper; and sets a high value on his Judgment
for anticipating his Brethren, the other Writers, who look like Fools at one another, to see
themselves thus jockey'd out of so remarkable a piece of Intelligence.

One Day we are told of a Reform of the Army, and the next of a Promotion of General Officers.
'Tis merry enough to see a Colonel of a Regiment in a Coffee-House, reading a News-Paper, that
informs him of a Gentleman being made Lieutenant-Colonel to a Company of Foot; and of a General
of Horse being promoted to the Rank of Captain-Lieutenant in his own Regiment; of which the
Papers extant have afforded us numberless Instances. We often read of some Duke, who is called
eldest Son and Heir apparent to a Viscount or Baron, going to, or returning from his Travels.

A dignify'd Clergyman, who had given a few Sacks of Coals amongst some poor People in hard
Weather, happen'd to come into Brown's Coffee-House in Spring-Garden, where some of the Gentlemen
cry'd out, Doctor, you're in the Papers. The Gentleman seem'd to be greatly surprized at the
thing: What impudent Rascal has made free with my Character? answers the Priest. Upon which
one, with an audible Voice, read out the Paragraph, which contained nothing more than a fine
Encomium on his Charity. The Doctor said, indeed there was some Truth in it; but then, how
impertinent it was in any Fellow to make such a trifling Affair the Burden of his Paper. This
gave occasion for various Reflections on the Papers in general. The Printer happen'd to be
present, and heard himself, and others of his Fraternity abused, in this manner for some time.
Several Gentlemen that were his Acquaintance, thought it far better to be silent, than to interfere
in his favour, because that might tend to expose him to the Doctor's farther Clamour and Resentment.
After the Divine had harangued the Company with a long Discourse upon the Insolence of Authors,
Printers, and Publishers; the Printer pull'd out of his Pocket the Copy from which this injurious
Article had been printed, and which appear'd, to the entire Satisfaction of every one present,
to be the Doctor's own Hand-Writing. The Printer further declar'd, that he knew no more of
the matter, than that his Servants, in his absence, receiv'd the usual Price of three Shillings
and Six-pence, for its being inserted in his Paper.

The Tricks which have been put upon the weak and credulous part of Mankind during the Drawing
of the late State-Lottery by letting out what were called Horses and Chances to Women and Children,
are wonderful. There was a Gentlewoman, not far from St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-Street,
who having the Misfortune to fall in with the Opinion of many, that the Tickets would still
come down to Par, had therefore neglected to provide herself till the Premiums were got so
high that she chose rather than purchase a Ticket, to put herself in Fortune's Way by Riding.
Being recommended to the honestest Broker in the Alley, she got mounted upon a very odd Number,
and one which had been successful in a former Lottery. She grew more familiar with Morning
and Evening Prayers than ever. One day she fasted, another day feasted, and when a sturdy Beggar
ask'd her Assistance, they were not put off with You're able to work, but were sure of Relief.
Her Maids were treated as though they had been her nearest Relations, and her Children could
do nothing to ruffle her Temper. In a word, she declared for nothing but Acts of Charity and
Piety, and never had such a Harmony been seen before in the Family. If anyone knocked at the
Door in haste, she grew pale, and was all over in a Trembling, expecting it to be the joyful
News; and, by way of Precaution, she had spoke to a Surgeon to be ready upon a short Notice,
because she intended to lose a few Ounces, to prevent the Consequence of a Surprize. She kept
de die in diem renewing her Ticket, upon the Information of a little blind Office whither the
Broker carried her, that it remain'd undrawn. Three Weeks past, and she could hear no Tales
or Tidings of either of the Ten Thousands, notwithstanding the many thousand good things she
vow'd to do, if Madam Fortune would but for once vouchsafe to become her humble Servant; resolving
not to be discouraged, because her Dreams still assured that there was some good thing in store
for her in the Wheel. She continued renewing her Ticket till the last Week of the Drawing,
when being advised to consult the Register at the Lottery-Office in Whitehall, she had the
sorrowful Satisfaction to find how she had been abused, the Ticket which she had hired for
thirty-two Days at the different Prices the Horses bore, having been drawn a Blank the second
day of the Lottery.

A little Lottery of all Prizes and no Blanks, for disposing of a few Trifles, being put up
by a Tradesman in the City, the highest Prize was a Pint Silver Mug: any one might become an
Adventurer for Six-pence, and the Adventurers were to put their Hands in the Glass, and draw
the Tickets themselves. A Sharper having got amongst the Croud, contrived a Ticket like those
in the Glass, and wrote upon it a Pint Silver Mug, and then dextrously concealing it in the
Palm of his Hand, put in to draw the Lot: the Ticket being opened, the Master of the Lottery
called him all the vile cheating Rogues, saying, he would go before a Magistrate, and make
Oath, that the Prize of the Silver Mug had never been put into the Glass.

There are many Persons subsisted merely by frequenting the most noted Ordinaries and Eating-Houses
where the second-hand sort of Gentlemen resort; and there, when they find a better Sword, Hat
or Cane, than their own at leisure, make no scruple to bring them away, and are oftentimes
so ungenerous as not to leave their old ones in lieu of them. The Persons who fall into this
Way of Life, I have observed, are for the most part of pretty voluble Tongues, and are generally
well versed in the Politicks and Histories of their own Times, so as to be able to harangue
a Company into a good opinion of their Parts and Capacity; so that when they are taking Leave,
to go away, the Company may not regard the Pegs on which those Moveables hang. They also appear
decently dress'd, so as to avoid being suspected of making a Trade instead of a Mistake when
they are detected in these Practices. I have known a large Number of People, after they have
heartily filled their Bellies with Beef and Pudding, do notable Services to their Country;
two or three have made Reprisals upon the Spanish Guard la Costa's in the West-Indies. Others
have reduced the Army, and added to the Sinking-Fund. Some have made a safe and honourable
Peace, and brought us all to rights at last; and after all this Merit, be rewarded with the
loss of their Hats, Canes and Swords, and be forced to march out of a Cook's Shop like a Garrison
that has surrendred Prisoners at Discretion, when some of the Gentlemen of this Profession
have been amongst them.

A Gentleman-like Person being on a Christmas-Day taking a Walk in Queen-Square near Ormond-Street,
and observing a handsome Table decked out with the best Damask Linnen, and a Side-Board richly
cover'd with Plate, &c. he concluded that an elegant Dinner must not be very distant from those
Preparations. Immediately a Coach, containing two Ladies and a Gentleman, stopt at the Door:
with an Air of Vivacity he steps forward, and assists the Ladies in coming out of the Coach,
and after the mutual Civilities, they all enter the House together, and are received and conducted
by the Gentleman of the Family into the Dining-Room; his Lady, Sisters, Daughters, and Nieces
are saluted by the Gentlemen in the usual manner. Dinner is called, and served up; and the
Stranger calls about him for Water, Wine, and every thing he wanted, as though he had been
intimately acquainted with the Table. From the Discourse which passed, he became Master of
every one's Name present, and made use of them on proper Occasions; and then by a short Story
relating to a Rencounter, which he said he was engaged in at Paris, the Company laid hold of
his Name likewise, and every one became jocose, free, and obliging to each other. When he was
called upon for his Toast, he named the most celebrated Beauties of the Age, and the Healths
of such Gentlemen as he found were agreeable to the Ladies. In a word, he acquitted himself
as became a Man of Mode, and one who kept the best Company. Towards the Evening the Conversation
breaks up, and the Gentlemen with the two Ladies take Leave, after a great many Compliments
for their Entertainment; and the strange Gentleman having helped to conduct the Ladies into
their Coach in the same manner as he had handed them out of it, they in Civility desire to
set him down, which he accepted of, and they heard no more of him till they went again to dine
at their Friend's House in Queen's-Square, when the Gentleman of the House and all the Ladies
roundly rallied them for not bringing their Friend, the well-bred Mr. ---- with them to Dinner.
They were more surprized, as supposing him to have been an Intimate of the Family's, and had
not seen him before the time he had imposed himself upon all the Company for a Dinner.

A certain small Portion of the People obtain Food and Raiment by plying closely the Avenues
that lead into St. James's Park, and the other privileged Places within the Verge of the Court;
they appear like Porters and Chairmen, and some like Operators for the Feet; and have had such
Experience in their Business, and are so well skill'd in Physiognomy, that they know an insolvent
Person upon the first sight. The severe Usage his Apparel has met with from the Bristles, or
else his conscious Countenance in the shy and suspicious Look he casts over his Shoulder upon
every one he hears treading behind him, are the infallible Tokens by which they form their
Judgment. Having pitch'd upon their Man, they pursue him at a proper Distance, till they find
an Opportunity to speak with him alone, and then tell him a Person has hired them to watch
diligently the Route he shall take for that Day, and upon giving notice thereof, they are to
be rewarded; but that, being an unfortunate Man himself, and owing much Money, he would not
for his Right-hand set a Gentleman into the hands of a Bailiff. The Information carrying such
an honest Face with it, cannot fail of being received with due Gratitude. The Insolvent is
now obliged to look to himself, and instead of stealing to Chelsea or Kensington for a little
Air, is forced to confine himself to bad Punch and worse Wine at some blind Hedge Coffee-house
or Tavern within the Verge of the Court. The Rascal by whom he has thus been impudently imposed
upon and terrified, never meets him but begs a Shilling or Six-pence; and having brought, perhaps,
a dozen unfortunate Gentlemen more under the same Apprehensions, makes a comfortable Livelyhood
of them.

Sometimes they are really employ'd by the Bailiffs to keep a Look-out upon a Gentleman that
is appointed to be unharboured; then they betray their Masters by giving him timely Notice
of what is intended, and so get more by the Discovery than the Officer would have done by executing
the Writ.

A Gentleman had once taken Sanctuary in the Verge, but such pressing Importunities were made
to the Green-Cloth, that he was left to the Mercy of his Creditors, if they could get him into
their Power: As his Debts were large, so large Rewards were offered to any Officer who should
undertake his Reprizal. A Bailiff for the Sum of Twenty Guineas at last undertook the Job.
The Insolvent confined himself close to his Chamber, and had all his Eatables dressed at a
Tavern: Having one Night ordered an elegant Supper for a few Ladies at his Lodgings, the Bailiffs
got Intelligence of the Hour it was directed to be ready; and having equipp'd himself with
a black Callimanco-Waistcoat and Napkin-Cap like a Cook, and his two Followers like Drawers,
and furnish'd themselves with cover'd Dishes, Plates, and every thing necessary for Eating:
A few Minutes before the time appointed they were all admitted into the Chamber, the Ladies
were all in a Hurry to get themselves seated, crying Supper was come; but the Gentleman perceiving
the Cheat, was for taking to his Pistols, but they secured and brought him off Prisoner to
the County-Jayl immediately.

A Foreigner of Distinction, who had formerly made the Tour of England, and during his Stay,
had contracted very large Debts with several Trades-People, happened a few Months since to
return to London: he chose to lodge privately, and seldom appeared abroad; but, having purchased
some Tickets in the State-Lottery, and entered them at an Office in the City for an Account
of their Success to be transmitted to him; his Creditors got knowledge of his Arrival, and
the Place of his Abode. One Morning, when he was in a Dishabilié, and playing with his Dog,
a Sheriff's Officer sans Ceremonie entered the Room, and taking a Writ out of his Pocket, shew'd
it to the Count, telling him, he arrested him in an Action for Five Hundred Pounds. The Foreigner
understanding but very little English, fell to hugging the Bailiff in his Arms, and thrust
eight Guineas into his Hand as a Reward, thinking he had brought him the News of a Five Hundred
Pound Prize in the Lottery; and then capered about the Room like a Dancing-Master, calling
in French to his Valet and Interpreter, who were in an adjacent Room, to come to partake of
his Joy. By this time three dirty Ruffians like Street-Robbers were at the Chamber-door, and
the whole House in an Uproar. The Count was soon convinced of his Error, and obliged to find
Bail to the Action; and there being none in the Room but the Bailiff and himself when the Writ
was executed, the Rascal absolutely denied the Present of Eight Guineas, and got three more
for his Civility, in not carrying him out of the House.

