The time to track hares is after a fall of snow deep enough to conceal the ground completely.
As long as there are black patches intermixed, the hare will be hard to find. It is true that
outside these the tracks will remain visible for a long time, when the snow comes down with
a north wind blowing, because the snow does not melt immediately; but if the wind be mild with
gleams of sunshine, they will not last long, because the snow is quickly thawed. When it snows
steadily and without intermission there is nothing to be done; the tracks will be covered up.
Nor, again, if there be a strong wind blowing, which will whirl and drift the snow about and
obliterate the tracks. It will not do to take the hounds into the field in that case; (1) since
owing to excessive frost the snow will blister (2) the feet and noses of the dogs and destroy
the hare's scent. Then is the time for the sportsman to take the haye nets and set off with
a comrade up to the hills, and leave the cultivated lands behind; and when he has got upon
the tracks to follow up the clue. If the tracks are much involved, and he follows them only
to find himself back again ere along at the same place, (3) he must make a series of circuits
and sweep round the medley of tracks, till he finds out where they really lead. (4)

 (1) Lit. "I say it is no use setting out with dogs to this chase."

 (2) {kaei}. Cf. Arrian, xiv. 5.

 (3) Reading {ekonta} sc. {ton kunegeten...} or if {ekonta, kuklous}
     (sc. {ta ikhne}), transl. "if the tracks are involved, doubling on
    themselves and coming back eventually to the same place."

 (4) Or, "where the end of the string is."

The hare makes many windings, being at a loss to find a resting-place, and at the same time
she is accustomed to deal subtly (5) in her method of progression, because her footsteps lead
perpetually to her pursuit.

 (5) {tekhnazein}. Cf. Ael. "N. A." vi. 47, ap. Schneid. A fact for
    Uncle Remus.

As soon as the track is clear, (6) the huntsman will push on a little farther; and it will
bring him either to some embowered spot (7) or craggy bank; since gusts of wind will drift
the snow beyond such spots, whereby a store of couching-places (8) is reserved (9); and that
is what puss seeks.

 (6) "Discovered."

 (7) "Thicket or overhanging crag."

 (8) {eunasima}, "places well adapted for a form."

 (9) Al. "many places suited for her form are left aside by puss, but
    this she seeks."

If the tracks conduct the huntsman to this kind of covert he had better not approach too near,
for fear the creature should move off. Let him make a circuit round; the chances are that she
is there; and that will soon be clear; for if so, the tracks will not trend outwards from the
place at any point. (10)

 (10) L. Dind. emend. {oudamoi}, "the tracks will not pass in any
    direction outwards from such ground."

And now when it is clear that puss is there, there let her bide; she will not sir; let him
set off and seek another, before the tracks are indistinct; being careful only to note the
time of day; so that, in case he discovers others, there will be daylight enough for him to
set up the nets. (11) When the final moment has come, he will stretch the big haye nets round
the first one and then the other victim (precisely as in the case of one of those black thawed
patches above named), so as to enclose within the toils whatever the creature is resting on.
(12) As soon as the nets are posted, up he must go and start her. If she contrive to extricate
herself from the nets, (13) he must after her, following her tracks; and presently he will
find himself at a second similar piece of ground (unless, as is not improbable, she smothers
herself in the snow beforehand). (14) Accordingly he must discover where she is and spread
his toils once more; and, if she has energy still left, pursue the chase.