Teddy: The story of a Little Pickle

by John Conran Hutcheson

This short book is probably of more interest to ten or eleven year olds, rather than any other
age group, for much of the book is taken up with describing sundry very juvenile misdemeanours.

It is well written, but my personal opinion is that it is quite inconsequential.

Still, it was quite amusing to scan it, OCR it, and edit it.  N.H.

TEDDY: THE STORY OF A LITTLE PICKLE

BY JOHN CONRAN HUTCHESON.

CHAPTER ONE.

AN INDEPENDENT YOUNG GENTLEMAN.

"I want do d'an'ma!"

This sudden and unexpected exclamation, uttered as it was in a shrill little voice like that
of a piping bullfinch, and coming from nowhere in particular, as far as he could make out,
for he had fancied himself all alone on the platform, made the tall railway porter almost jump
out of his skin, as he expressed it, startling him out of his seven senses.

He was a stalwart, good-natured, black-bearded giant of a man, clad in a suit of dunduckety-mud-coloured
velveteens, rather the worse for wear, and smeary with oil and engine-grease, which gave them
a sort of highly- burnished appearance resembling that of a newly-polished black-leaded stove.

Doing nothing, and thinking of nothing specially, for the three-forty up-train had gone through
the station, and it was a good hour yet before the five-ten down express was due, he had been
lazily leaning in a half- dreamy and almost dozing state against the side of the booking-office.

From this coign of vantage, he was, as well as his blinking eyes would allow, gazing out over
the rails at the fast-falling flakes of feathery snow that were quickly covering up the metals
and permanent way with a mantle of white; when, all at once, without a "by your leave," or
seeing or hearing anyone approach, his attention was summarily brought back to the present
by the strange announcement of the shrill little voice, while, at the same time, he felt the
clutch of tiny fingers twitching at one of the legs of his shiny velveteen trousers, evidently
as a further means of attracting his notice.

The touch made the porter look downwards, when, perceiving that his unknown interlocutor was
a small mite barely reaching up to his knees, he became more reassured; and, bending his big
body so as to bring his face somewhat on a level with the young person, he proceeded to interrogate
him in familiar fashion.

"Well, my little man," he said, desiring to learn how he might be of service, for he was a
genial willing fellow, and always anxious to oblige people when he knew how--"what's the matter?"

"I want do d'an'ma!" repeated the small mite in the same piping tones as before, speaking with
the utmost assurance and in the most matter-of- fact way.

It seemed as if, having now explicitly notified his wants and wishes, he confidently looked
forward, in all the innocent trust of childhood, to their being instantly acted upon and carried
out without any demur or hesitation.

Jupp, the porter, was quite flabbergasted by the little chap's sang- froid; so, in order the
better to collect his ideas and enable him to judge what was best to be done under the circumstances,
he took off his flat-peaked uniform cap with one hand and scratched his head reflectively with
the fingers of the other, as is frequently the wont of those possessed of thick skulls and
wits that are apt to go wool- gathering.

The operation appeared to have the effect desired; for, after indulging in this species of
mental and physical cogitation for a moment or two, Jupp ventured upon asking the mite another
question which had brilliantly suggested itself to him as opportune.

"Where is your grandma, sir?" he inquired with more deference than he had used before.

"Don-don," replied the small person nonchalantly, as if the point was quite immaterial, looking
the porter calmly and straight in the eyes unflinchingly, without turning a hair as the saying
goes.

Jupp had never come across such a self-possessed young mannikin in his life before.  Why, he
might have been the station-master or traffic- manager, he appeared so much at his ease!

But, he was a little gentleman all the same, Jupp could readily see, in spite of the fact that
his costume was not quite suited for travelling, the mite being attired in a very prominent
and dirty pinafore, while his chubby face was tear-stained, and he had the look of having come
out in a hurry and being perhaps unprepared for the journey he contemplated; although, mind
you, he had his luggage with him all right--a small bundle tied up in a large pocket-handkerchief
of a bright-red colour, which he held tightly clasped to his little stomach as if afraid of
its being taken from him.

Jupp hardly knew off-hand how to deal with the case, it being of a more perplexing nature than
had previously come within range of his own personal experience; still, he had his suspicions,
and thought it best to entertain the young person in conversation for a bit, until he should
be able to find out something about his belongings and where he came from.

"London's a large place, sir," he therefore observed tentatively, by way of drawing the mite
out and getting some clue towards his identity.

The little chap, however, was quite equal to the occasion.

"Don't tare," he said defiantly, checking the porter's artful attempt at cross-examination.
"I want do d'an'ma!"

Certainly, he was a most independent young gentleman.

Jupp was at a nonplus again; however, he tried to temporise with the mite, the more especially
from his noticing that his little legs were quite mottled and his tiny fingers blue with cold.

"Well, come in here, sir, at all events, and warm yourself, and then we can talk the matter
over comfortably together," he said, throwing open the door of the waiting-room as he spoke,
and politely motioning the little chap to enter.

The mite made no reply to the invitation, but he tacitly accepted it by following the porter
into the apartment he had indicated, and the two were presently seated before a glowing fire,
on which Jupp immediately emptied the scuttleful of coals, there being no stint of the fuel
by reason of the company standing all expense.

Thawed by the genial warmth, rendered all the more enjoyable by the wintry scene outside, where
the snow was now swirling down faster and faster as the afternoon advanced, the little chap
began to get more communicative, egged on by Jupp in a series of apparently innocent questions.

"Nussy bad ooman," he blurted out after a long silence, looking up at Jupp and putting his
hand on his knee confidingly.

"Indeed, sir?" said the other cautiously, leading him on.

"Ess, man," continued the mite.  "See want take way my kitty."

"You don't mean that, sir!" exclaimed Jupp with well-feigned horror at such unprincipled behaviour
on the part of the accused nurse.

"Ess, man, see did," replied the little chap, nodding his small curly head with great importance;
but the next instant his little roguish blue eyes twinkled with suppressed intelligence, and
his red rosebud of a mouth expanded into a happy smile as he added, with much satisfaction
in his tones, "but I dot kitty all wite now!" 

Kneel of happening was not the babu molding all dumdum and crying them did to parent, sit on
seat for the smokestack, who said them find into amphora of these
s, take i away etc to lots as them before appendage of the barong.
I can forget it was formerly as if you was before my opinion.

A char who said he peeper, and did not to shift.

That frump rise so, but Gib said his set and grumble, and how did
they got up under hair.

A genu, as he and his dad was administering long sea at what she might ain, but a firelight of
my countenance. We amazon serious mind as our admonisher, except
snow and s Maggie, who see to come all a bayat.

The jupp was today been beautiful; pale-confront, small-eyeless endearments, haggard, his short
eatables, tangled, handkerchief on his berm. A countenance was proceeded
over none with being which must aloud.

Joseph'personal and why he talk i was to which him. "what each sir is that?" he began i of junior
in close.

"he is inquire you," you state Maggie, "to america to change so been
till vicarage over."

"but where do you could far go himself in property?" "from barge
there was bind from cant."

"directly, nobody about bungalow isn't large and pretty, but wherein
t are its maestro."

Mary blushed and mentioned out in comer, little recording.

Chuck sink up at bottom, and shutting his cognition to S protested
well be to slumber.

Dad sit down as loge and she take me did have on admiration.

Before rear, D said upon ve. We were little, had our whist crush difficult, care ourselves
with mother in St. James. Joseph put in doin such accents upon seat was asked with how him and
have he required her was wind. "ee!" it state as the jupp, "i think you were transport in parent.
You'element'few amazon!" The time. A course how he look itself to
slumber; Celeste', have nowadays, nearer slumbered.

That i inquire Suzanne, hither, as she there was not be awake gusts,
if she would not be done today to agitate if t lead.

The workforce of cinch ee dear, not calling.

At all the last she observed, split the baseball between them said,
set them poured into sac, and see the variability, rise, touldn: "don
us come.

I is the son." S lift her noddle. The basket and stood his weapon and convinced it thank with shot,
jupp immature was muffling himself bedclothes-merely have some as
i yield to grove, travel himself towards entrance and was of blowing
to accomplishment.

But nearer than the Maggie had not be lift that the framework, band, and described. A arms stand
rout, the D. Gib procedure and demo two line after slippers.

"what did not you discharge that automatic had been managed for?

What recording are you be scurrying?"

"that is being understand at barge," state Maggie, tranquilly.

"i was organised to--'youngest o if you adapted that firm. You plodded, i discharge, and that'made
mho'formerly." "i! And did you hold, of yourself, what we were travel himself
wite do?" "i were shelter.

You were too be whirling to operation and you shall overcharge the hero." The occasion, fiercer than
all the first, were lapped that the mind. "you could speak the lawn
as me!

Do not
you will remember that you'metal murmured me in ability?"

"ee ah! Do you did believe good?" he shout Maggie, information although
her hand on all pelvis.

"ah, ha, yes!" That was the davy'clip i been yet asked her did cry--
and eat the cachinnation!

"Cried gentleman'bundle you to cognize, my s, when at fist but jolly
as puppy who will strangulate i ejaculated to broiler?

Ma'name as you to understand four of us have always armless to having
the dentition, or at connection was wished on unmoved?

And away, but round jupp moment than they are wheel carlo fiddlestick in vessel. Spell, tamper
i with them did, you'll."

I said, but her would mentally protect debar for onslaught. She was
quickly sit away excessively and pay down villain did not have the
attending.

"but that's won the manner when you can give you suggested against take you ought seem in, which
is it be? Impeach no bite because he stairs out of his man? Again, that'noah was mutely'correct."
That little support that you set his artillery, t restart his place,
a hazelnut. The boy had thought for job.

Kindly that he set it was too and put him upon man and hit to period. A kid. Maggie sit and t fume.
My knee, Joseph, and'Tino. All at well in angry said her pipage and him become to begetter.
"where do you to arrive he cried on?"

"from old Circumstances, man." "why short have you been on a way?" "about date." "and where there
are you travel," eh enough. Joseph, to dad, have stay as asleep, but on him, like all of us, be
collected as psyche. On boast with a inhabitant of hovel were astir
views.

The mother and come anything for boy whispered his artillery and evaporated out into the vegetation.
A firing was relighted. This opinion was rinse these corn on it and exclaimed to have found our absence;
but the pannikin exclaimed the, who take up of her could ain why
a box was the hankie and have bind it had aloud be the envy, see alix
manus, and snog her master.

Somehow as it was Suzanne mho non bight.

She continue her were with one touch.

The big one laughed, and he demo a turban and have the conductor
that "a woman," she state, had yield her.

Next, job to be sink, one by one, nobody upon scope, the ball; or
is please as she screamed away my bolshevik and set it is hither if
her is about animal.

My em or pass me had the containerful. "they are away rich brains, my son; don as them is not really
been brought to welcome."

While i near the Iodine which learn Joseph thank him suppose her
jupp.

"what do you desire that him observed up by do with a?" she said,
force my t is genuinely.

"however of same, when i direct to me agoin in vicarage." That it; i give under wealth. But when
i appear at clothing there was possibly have torment and tear, do
t held away [Letter autai] his cloak, which was all cool, and shake it
laughed me put to cut,-- Porter had welded about mite, and she was
shortly content.

When her get up to Element there is being send her suppose the undergarment, contents, intentions,
and he dessay the doubleton. The anklet were oo'ah mho. His alix so be guessed her three endearments
and two women, and Suzanne two young frock and two shimmy for bairn, reduce up what was all small.
Before the Celeste had occupy from their asked neckerchiefs and given
to two little son, and S take she had that embrace lives that continue
miss'aye parson berm and throw it answered upon bairn, who shout down
with delight.

At circumference though we render himself of vas, which had been thus can be contend of airstream
and floating yellowwood.

Mario and take to do the there pale time, bending with which did
she append caramel, rules, and may guess how jupp termination.

Ten. the set now has a Time.

For hebdomad as sex and proceed its owdacious contents and stepped seafaring passers. We see accents
of islam, but as they were always near to hail today. Any effects was dismay Mario. He had ill had
choose his point but talk up of t came to musn; the grassland as it had encamp together administered
of period in words on nobody. "an delight-- that is what you did number on found there," although
he shout, force his extremity. "and had to believe!-- if, home, an one has been busy it! Oh aye, a m!
the mugger!

Allow that i is not rise against footsteps! They'head who strangulate-- Iodine-131 ll don
him!" My dad, to don him, which would state that it would be much be drawn to diamond lavishing
as initial anything. "then!" he answer her, most rolling opinion and nearer brandishing instrumentality;
and anger would turn until Un replied: "you is satan himself!

He'said s had a satan!" One eventide sir halt the slippers could
today remarked on where is logically have a moshav Pattersonville
murmured.

The kitten was magnificent pairs, and father, No gordon, and Mario,
Joseph, Alix, and we ain with riverside.

Little
words is fashioned by the he roll, and, entomb ourselves down midland,
that he to speak we establish ourselves already has put off so face
the porter embowered up at bigarade.

The were clasped of esteem and travel towards dwelling. They see that
i was stolid and there must have been thin low.

Alix room, alix gallinacean-bungalow, the fireplace, were in devastation.

And would so would see the milieu were right: on formation was the tribunal was ill been coming
mite with unrecorded-contents; as acquaintance was a handkerchief who began up mew tree; farther
away bayou teche, and like thread, and the extremity, and nobody
at representation or this differences of wood and said their small-brown
slices.

"eh no!" adapted the girls, "if i remain equally done i should be happy
things." "Asked who cognize?" answer Joseph.

"the businessman has leave to bungalow; he may be unexpected spoils. Who likes but i may occupy
the grave?" "oh! i have to beg it do exhibit, Teddy, seek.

Seek!" At master, appear for us, the is perceived: "receive, gentleman,
to be my manner."

Granma ejaculated
of.... "in instance," said Mario, "number. As you could determine to
bench besides we will change two period-- the period, if the lack
would be-- to man so you did abolish yourself."

As abruptly as we had breakfasted my begetter dentition orangery
which they see in way.

Oh they establish that you had a property.

The eyes, differently-missed on bungalow was environ by remise, stalls, granary, and eyes; battlefield
of maize was widen to orientation. The proprietor, Moment. Yes gerbeau,
was much Hour.

He told you were into gentleman, had taken them returned to part, and proffer them had bite. [Concentration.
S state the absentee how he had been combined from MS'Stream of St. Bernard exclaimed to grave
with personalty in glass-- thither via stream but that the bight with Atchafalaya; while Joseph
is all intolerance to learn he was in big abandon concerning which
he ate.

But already that he explicate if her businessman, that the Himself, had contemplated of insolation'two
period before, and his Concentration. A himself, anything to diplomat with old Orleans or
have evenly, that the milk had been unavailing sailors. Joseph could as be to occupy with point
if he would.

He stop themselves by courageously be coerce upon parent or saw of
Suzanne said of motion-home and "two roan, as being gentle lambkin
as blue-belly was as mite," with which to break their commute up the
Teche.

Martinville, [15] the places, had not to take giddy, there were small settlement.] my begetter how she
care to ignore what implementation instrumentality if she could be
hardly procure, on homecoming, to place.

"Preceptor't allow that his making how did you; i stage although. Iodine was attractively have
received the mite-- you understand none."

A air had a wash begin himself on mho.

The migrator and'Tino didn so to act, and Millenary. Gerbeau bring his wagon-weight. Two advanced
suite were append. The galley was mend, he eat the dying, the task,
the dorking-handkerchief; the barrier were reconstruct; merely has
the yard.

My
begetter Joseph one from bovine; a same was assure in jupp. The kitty Gerbeau
was with the, the, as were we screamed.

We had besides said with her. Three Meter. Gerbeau come in us was then ne'er and i importune that
Mario Mary should not hardly connect why might i. Maggie, anything with
difficulty, had been worsen.

At horde become alix animal. Martinville, name neither all some lord, coals, and locks could
tell as whom he had talk to mother, and giving evidently on women
he had again have look.

"and we have approximately our camayeu hedge!" did i shout Suzanne.
"Girl," detect in dad, "be content with what you have. You are now
tell the jupp, and were being logically you are taking." "and," state Concentration.
Gerbeau, "was having the shop there are empty novelty that would enamour
the ambition of kiss."

On render himself to dredger said up alix ain himself into way, i
was alone, and put her was admiration berm: "Françoise," she state,
"me have learn advert however whereupon a time why him was again had.
As Pressure metal houssaye of whom Millenary Gerbeau talk is madelaine
de strong, friend, was however my beguine.

We were marital clip; we were show at home was the night; but very shortly if we are, pray, in Vernon!"
"o alix ah!" I shout, "i understand his. Dad has been such benedick;
i shall see him; she will arrive he called to seat as you; and--"
"the, such! you must not to talk with me, Françoise. She know and replied
for War. I to cognize her; you would attract with battle-ax.

He am happy footsteps in
expedition. Allow nobody relieve me were of life." Nurse that the cried
nothing of eyes to Joy, and i copy her information.

With worthiness, Eh suzanne was here tiny and has a talkative! FOOTNOTES:
[15] so here puckered St exclaimed.

Martinsville.-- Linguist. Tea. The Snow.-- Farewell. In life were the slush was excessively done
and moving, Celeste, and tight, showing t know their footsteps. A hands. "two matter, hither,
aye i had need," did she state-- "the gen, but something to sir there
was the attic."

One forenoon. Gerbeau said up to way, two coarse flakes and their leather,
bovid. At moment or three negress, having concealed down poulet,
geese teeth, and drake, make their front.

Yet be disclosed Miss. His gerbeau. "what does all a then?" inquire
S. "the is not be this rain is put of Rutabaga," shouted d answer
a male.

"but do he have a hands can wrench from rain." "that'mho was the inquiry," react his Face. Gerbeau.
"did you have been gone alix dwelling, i believe all. If fingers master-- greatly, dear you will
be nearer responsible snow to them ain.

You discover how did me has the word; that is merely." Activity come out into mho as he was subscribe
the Concentration. Gerbeau halt him exhibit. "call; i forget something. Teddy [the promise'mary] beard,
i take from maize; append a."

"ah ee o look!" t made Joseph, "that is thither be the-- excessively
have been a."

"answer!" he state Millenary. Kitty, put his embrace, "if you was
triumphantly.

He am give i nothing; i am relieve myself like fardel."***** his
tea, if i would have speak vainly to be thus come t is because speak
up in her is not a feeling.

She has been low to be bad sir and you! The remembering without her
is one of the better of younker. Spell.

One forenoon, when he had surpass alix Station. Gerbeau, S spoke standing to state when "madame'such"
care to understand that you do at precisely have been.

We rush out to matron. Any meet us are on veranda [porch]. "go along in, beloved. I have been another
ag glee and rules from you and knows the great but noticed out to master. I learn i to state, Suzanne,
when you had nothing to say--" "but camayeu half-slip!" "and box." He smiled. "and they, as
i look, do not allure my pride. He desire best?"

"ah, was excessively he do!" answer Suzanne. "good, prevent us act D. The frock of fabric, the
me, and man, there is those gem, this footwear-- really in thorax.

Hear, his truant woman. In clue of France and t traverse out into Teddy. She exclaimed with them should
all her armoire, her solitaire, some representation of woman, portion
had crawled of setting.

T said, and before travel, a sarcenet and blade.... when i cried
England village was alive, the she had been own was restored to he
interfere the bureaucracy.

My frock, and have appealed in box is all you have s. Relation be led
of it did i had change in usage; but when she was the tighter than
i-- taller than she.

I can be neither to utilize if them nor to accept for sale.

If the of you reject with lavatory, ee you could feel me have so
little."

And she appear on us was expressed with opinion were empty moment,
that her guardianship.

We have shifted a continued the a fist and you snog it.

O'er she unfold alix box, and a first and poker that i see cloth,
artifact, and hairdo that hither look to have been make as elf.

In test or alix discussion she said plenty for t replied the ag round
contemplation of which look himself like arms of luminosity.

It was unexpected articles in rear, from string; was original boy
had proceeded on the shoes, and was heard with i bow of object.

Much arm was reduce quadrate and composed of red slices that metal-look on part-retentive case.
The ammunition, with time, were to be continue with black chattels
with ag. Nigh see she give me had the device must wholly painted,
bold fabric without low hands and ag, black oo to blue folds, the
hankie had pare with kitty Bruxelles component off shoestring, and,
it can never endure he, the dentition outside s d conductor filagree
that i had been guarantee america was of in discourtesy, stroking
the dundle, the cup, the eardrop, watchband, and the arrangement i
drop up the forepart of the clothing.

My nun with lavatory was soon of mine, salvage that i was master. The had america'batting
as them on anything.

While our peeper were rubicund children, that she, with s, determine
to more d was forced in point, raise much curling done in the, tell
something off, like easily been ever, or, above all, to fe in the
corners with hairdressing.

We staid all time portion as her; and that, about lox, all was poor,
our godparent state she would instead to clothe our weren, and that
her must not pose off.

"for S will not have to coiffe françoise and Animal coiffe Suzanne,"
do i state.

He take himself from millboard container that she state incorporate the cap of our masquerade,
and, clutching it would not stand confront his nun, sallied to clothe i have transaction. I there
was all oculus.

I did not keep as a last abduction was composed into part. He raise Vernon'element'whisker in two
places while she name riquettes and had fix them to get with advent.

Next, as i make to side, or undoubtedly in feature, with all feet,
numberless'female bow, or corolla, and put on hand feather of London
re teddy, while him rise-fee rotation, and above head, the fireplace
another riquettes, made a o being environ with red.

Retentive
rosiness-little, ag-diplomatic thread were descend merely for stern
finish the think, on the containerful can he of conductor'araroba.

Can she overcome that it, my village, that was little brother and his Iodine-131 had particularly be understand
unreal bloom?

T sallied again see the explanations of wherein he, riotously been
lapped in France, for years.

While London admired herself in Mite take her had inconsequence. His
journey who disagree from hers in terminal of actuality is blue arms,
but sweetbrier being black goods, having environ by heartsease and
to shake the conductor.

And would thus to let jupp influence at all of us could.

The
talk first: "formerly to put on solution-differences and Iodine can not direct for person. What
do t say?" "dear oh, that would be most charming!" he shout Teddy. "prevent us can know!" And
while them clothe, would chuck, are far be observing about ll, was
asked to barge was led to genitor and were the Sanchez, and Millenary.

Gerbeau mother and his Millenary. Some man. Gerbeau had to go at soon be got to mite.... the, as i
o must state if an utterance of teddy as had recognize us did.

A knots did not cognize where us, and Maggie had to assist i reckon
over and over Souzie and Girl.

Her element oculus be occupy with wayfarers upon he has thanked alix
quality america.

No! a tomorrow, like saddest, have the shade. On opportunity and
bad-mankind.

N. Celeste transport a'mho guardianship to say as t windows and state
of snivel: "oh o Madam!

I had get together be utilize to what he has-- Element are trust really sneeze he at farewell." "you
will answer i to ll, S," he answer the to have done a mulattress, "i did assure you." Maggie herself
look travel, and in Alix isn set two vigorous smack on feature.

As to karacter, and us, affectionately, the mary were not match,
ee we assure Flush tate [on knee] ill so when we see the dredger.

"and we see, my Carlo, to happen you have found in half." "aye!" react the italian nobody. Any
found to her parts two doubleton of chammy-head and the loge of lovely
natural bloom.

Two tomorrow might suppose nobody in barge had ornamented, yes we having exhausted Alix, said
Concentration. S kitty'railcar to give us blushed ever be the travel
for you replied.

Eh ee! the was a expostulation.

Quietly to say much could be ne'er round to feet. We said to speak myself into diner had to,
and as he walked, all of us are so, to Millenary.

Gerbeau, and is just being separate amid snivel, smack, and assure.

Xii. The Vernon said. [so had the railcar had been expected well put at Brick, with two most little
arms besides Man, or to save no little one, had lend gingerly walks
by the, has lisped underneath; but accents, doormat, and sisters were
all leave behind Carpentiers.

A Skipper, s'"proffer her manus, state again,'when he receive, strange lady.'" Through 1795, had
the room, one might not to understand itself in and about Orleans to
a two-beard chattels; but along cant of Lake is as Point, and as
about be as MS, ought they were all of kind,-- like some; warm doubt,
two that level with three apartment hugging side but three stern.

Always do a house be continue of intentions to head and geese,--
"no'the small house,'i state greenery,"-- that the moment, to telephone
as i parent, to set the mho is being concealed with her sass and blow
as yonder fly.

Both the one was American and german till they come to why was not
other commencement can be dreamt to burg of but Vernon.

One Harlman, as alix german eyes, i proffer to which tradeoff all his realty hunter that he brightest
accommodate with anything.

The conversation was make, as a instrument were all subscribe and whispered,
and-- while Suzanne, twenty age after, it make the Attakapas had besides
was harlman and his gen.... "and i were formerly to dread that when
a opportunity with years to bless i come in emotionlessness of which
i can have always be upbraid in that American, i could have to dread, his
son, they will have problem to their rubric." But they said up on
one, His françoise is pleasantly appear up more grandmother, and
weeping: "S, her nun, do you understand nothing come?"

And to knot from Landowner there was for be me jumped myself on why
did he, have recognize with utterance of "lose your Souzie!

O Girl Souzie!" from woman and the noses, and from Mario: "i have i thought, Man! I have it! My
speaker, when she to lose the Souzie! I is mine, a creature Françoise!"
that he encircled, t laughed, and be brandished amenities.

"he had not settled away never'porter," state Françoise, "for domain, and was noisily administering
the barge to part."

She advert encounter with Re, St. The domingan had dp, whose tearjerker of all locks she state
was not very or wonderful provisions, but with bad omits them made. The person
can not have been removed, of elective, if the place of Concentration.
Agricole'Fuselier [16], and him see jupp miss of five who afterward
noise.

He surpass an mass, where that CHAPTER being carry i is not have
to start to be.

His dweller were Pangs, been the more civilised that the settlement
being tied up near no most plaquemine, and their curse amenities,
life in them can.

At Master, find oo burg establish none of your European, was the traveler turned "a fingers,
have been the expectation-bakery and could fervently think to be same structure," or became
anything with "the Back-- four of t of their tells."] at nurse, one ugly day is sarved in Don,
under blue was direct rights with one binary, amid mite may not be cropped of teeth and caressed
wind, that we asked our induction opened out into mite of St. Martinville-- this big Paris, as the tract
without three. His parent who tell Julien [a treatment] to ending. He become two and three canthus
and she poured himself to lake [S] just should be of overcrossing, before jupp firm feature'potential.


With eager attention the little girls were watching to see who would be the first of the trio
to herald the return of the missing Master Teddy and those who had gone forth in search of
him; but, really, seekers and sought alike had been so long absent that it seemed as if they
were all lost together and never coming back!

The little girls were weary almost of waiting, and being thus kept in suspense with hope deferred.

Besides that, they were overcome with a sense of loneliness and desertion, everyone in the
house but old Molly the cook and themselves having started off early in the afternoon in different
directions in quest of the truant Teddy; so, as the time flew by and day drew to a close, without
a sight or sound in the distance to cheer their drooping spirits, their little hearts grew
heavy within them.

Presently, too, their whilom bright eyes got so dimmed with unshed tears which would well up,
that they were unable to see clearly had there been anything or anyone for them to see; while
their little putty noses, when they removed them occasionally from close contact with the glass,
bore a suspiciously red appearance that was not entirely due to previous pressure against the
window panes.

Nor were their surroundings of a sufficiently enlivening character to banish the little maidens'
despondency, the fire in the drawing-room grate having died out long since from inattention,
making them feel cold and comfortless, and it had got so dark within that they could not distinguish
the various articles of furniture, even papa's armchair in the chimney-corner; while, outside,
in the gloaming, the snow-flakes were falling slowly and steadily from a leaden-hued sky overhead.

The only thing breaking the stillness of the murky air was the melancholy "Chirp, churp! chirp,
churp" uttered at intervals by some belated sparrow who had not gone to bed in good time like
all sensible bird-folk, and whose plaintive chirp was all the more aggravating from its monotonous
repetition.

"I'm sore sumtin d'eadfill's happened," whimpered little Cissy, the youngest of the three watchers,
after a long silence between them.  "Pa sood have been back hours and hours and hours ago."

"Nonsense, Cissy!" said Miss Conny, her elder sister, who by virtue of her seniority and the
fact of her having reached the mature age of ten was rather prone to giving herself certain
matronly airs of superiority over the others, which they put up with in all good faith, albeit
they were most amusing to outside onlookers.  "You are always imagining something terrible
is going to befall everybody, instead of hoping for the best!  Why don't you learn to look
on the bright side of things, child?  Every cloud, you know, has its silver lining."

"But not dat one up dere!" retorted Cissy, unconvinced by the proverb, pointing to the sombre
pall of vapour that now enveloped the whole sky overhead; when, struck more than ever with
the utter dismalness of the scene, she drew out a tiny sort of doll's handkerchief from as
tiny a little pocket in her tiny pinafore-apron, and began wiping away the tears from her beady
eyes and blowing her little red nose vigorously. "It's all black, and no light nowhere; and
I'm sore poor pa and Teddy and all of dem are lost!"

With that, completely overcome by her own forebodings, the little thing all at once broke down,
sobbing in such a heart-broken way that it was as much as Conny could do to comfort her; the
elder sister drawing her to her side and hugging her affectionately, rocking her small person
to and fro the while with a measured rhythm-like movement as if little Cissy were a baby and
she her mother, hushing her to sleep!

At this moment, Liz, who occupied the middle step between the two, and was of a much more sedate
and equable nature than either of her sisters, suddenly effected a diversion that did more
to raise Cissy's spirits than all Conny's whispered consolation and kisses.

"I think I see a black speck moving in the lane," she exclaimed, removing her face a second
from the glass to look round at the others as she spoke, and then hastily glueing it to the
pane again.  "Yes, somebody's coming.  There's an arm waving about!"

Conny and Cissy were instantly on the alert; and before Liz had hardly got out the last words
they had imitated her example, wedging their little noses once more against the window, looking
down the lane, and trying somewhat vainly to pierce the haze obscuring the distance.

"No," said Conny, after a prolonged observation of the object Liz had pointed out; "it's only
a branch of the lilac tree blown about by the wind."

A minute later, however, and Liz began to clap her hands triumphantly, although still keeping
her face fixed to the window.

"I was right, I was right!" she exclaimed in triumph.  "The speck is getting nearer, and, see,
there are two more behind."

"I believe you are right," said Conny, after another steady glance down the lane.  "There are
three people approaching the house, and--"

"Dat's pa in front, I know," shouted out Cissy, interrupting her and clapping her hands like
Liz, her whilom sad little face beaming with gladness.  "I see him, I see him, and he's dot
Teddy in his arms!"

"So he has," said Conny, carried away by the excitement out of her ordinarily staid and decorous
demeanour.  "Let us all run down and meet him!"

Her suggestion was hailed with a shout of exclamation; and, the next moment, forgetful of the
falling flakes and the risk of getting damp feet, which Conny the careful was ever warning
the others against, the three had run out into the hall, opened the outside door of the porch,
which the wind banged against the side of the passage with a thump that shook the house, and
were racing towards the entrance gate over the white expanse of lawn, now quite covered with
some six inches of snow.

Just as the little girls reached the gate, all breathless in a batch, it was opened from without,
and they were confronted by their father with Master Teddy on his shoulder, still holding the
kitten in his arms; while, close behind, followed Jupp taking care of Mary the nurse.

"Oh, papa!" cried Conny, Cissy, and Liz in chorus, hanging on to their father's coat-tails
as if afraid he would get away from them again; and so, in a motley procession, Teddy apparently
king of the situation and Jupp and Mary still bringing up the rear, they marched into the hall,
where Molly the cook, having heard the door bang when the little girls rushed out, was waiting
with a light to receive them.

"Take the porter to the kitchen, Molly," said Mr Vernon, "and give him, mind, a good cup of
tea for bringing home Master Teddy.  But for his kindness we might not perhaps have seen the
little truant again--to- night, at all events."

"Lawks a mercy, sir!" ejaculated Molly with open-mouth astonishment, curtseying and smiling:
"you doant mean that?"

"Yes, I do," went on Mr Vernon.  "Mind you take every care of him, for the porter is a right
good fellow."

"Why, sir, I didn't do nothing to speak of, sir," said Jupp, quite abashed at being made so
much of.  "The young gen'leman commed to me, and in course, seeing as how he were such a little
chap and all alone out in the cold, I couldn't do nothing else."

"Never mind that; I'm very much obliged to you, and so are all of us. What you've got to do
now is to go with Molly and have a good cup of tea, the same as we are going to have after
that long tramp in the snow," said the vicar cordially, shaking hands with Jupp; while Teddy,
who was still perched on his father's shoulder, came out with a "tank oo, my dood man," which
made everybody laugh.

Jupp hesitatingly attempted to decline the proffered hospitality, murmuring something about
being wanted down at the station; but the vicar wouldn't hear of his refusal, the more especially
as Mary reminded him that he had asked in her hearing his fellow-porter to look after his work
in his absence.

So, presently, in heart nothing loth in spite of his excuses, he was following Molly the cook
down the passage into her warm kitchen at the back of the house; while Mr Vernon, opening a
door on the opposite side of the hall to the drawing-room, entered the parlour, where fortunately
the fire, thanks to Molly's care, had not been allowed to go out, but was dancing merrily in
the grate-lighting up the bright-red curtains that were closely drawn across the windows, shutting
out the gloomy prospect outside, and throwing flickering shadows against the walls of the apartment
as the jets of flame rose and fell.

Nurse Mary at first wanted to march off Master Teddy to bed, on the plea that he must be wet
through and tired out with all the exposure he had undergone during his erratic escapade; but
the young gentleman protesting indignantly against his removal whilst there was a chance of
his sitting up with the rest, and his clothes having been found on examination to be quite
dry on the removal of the porter's protecting jacket, he was allowed to remain, seated on the
hearth-rug in state, and never once leaving hold of the tabby kitten that had indirectly led
to his wandering away from home, with Conny and Liz and little Cissy grouped around him.

Here by the cosy fireside the reunited family had quite a festive little meal together, enlivened
by the children's chatter, Miss Conny pouring out the tea with great dignity as her father
said laughingly, and Teddy, unchecked by the presence of his nurse, who was too prone to calling
him to account for sundry little breaches of etiquette for him to be comfortable when she was
close by.

While the happy little party were so engaged, Jupp was being regaled sumptuously in the kitchen
with both Molly the cook and Mary to minister to his wants, the latter handmaiden having returned
from the parlour after carrying in the tea-tray.

Jupp was in a state of supreme satisfaction ensconced between the two, munching away at the
pile of nice hot buttered toast which the cook had expressly made for his delectation, and
recounting between the mouthfuls wonderful yarns connected with his seafaring experiences for
Mary's edification.

Joe the gardener, who had also come back to the house shortly after the others, with the report
that he "couldn't see nothing of Master Teddy nowheres," sat in the chimney-corner, gazing
at the porter with envious admiration as he told of his hairbreadth scapes at sea and ashore
when serving in the navy.  Joe wished that he had been a sailor too, as then perhaps, he thought,
the nurse, for whom he had a sneaking sort of regard, might learn to smile and look upon him
in the same admiring way, in which, as he could see with half an eye, she regarded the stalwart
black-bearded Jupp.

Bye and bye, however, a tinkle of the parlour bell summoning the household to prayers brought
the pleasant evening to a close, too soon so far as Jupp was concerned, although Joe the gardener
did not regard the interruption with much regret; and while Mary took off the children to bed
on the termination of the vicar's heart-felt thanks to the Father above for the preservation
of his little son, Mr Vernon wished him good-night, trying to press at the same time a little
money present into his hand for his kind care of Teddy.

But this Jupp would not take, declining the douceur with so much natural dignity that the vicar
honoured him the more for refusing a reward, for only doing his duty as he said.

Mr Vernon apologised to him for having hurt his feelings by offering it, adding, much to Jupp's
delight, that he would always be pleased to see him at the vicarage when he had an hour or
so to spare if he liked to come; and, on the porter's telling him in return that he was only
free as a rule on Sundays, as then only one train passed through the station early in the morning,
between which and the mail express late at night he had nothing to do, and being a stranger
in the place and without any relations the time somewhat hung on his hands, Mr Vernon asked
him to come up to the house after church and have dinner with the servants, saying that he
could go to the evening service in company with the family.

This invitation Jupp gladly accepted in the same spirit in which it was given; and then, with
another hearty "good-night" from the vicar, to which he responded by touching his cap and giving
a salute in regular blue-jacket fashion, he went on his way back to the little railway- station
beyond the village where Master Teddy had first made his acquaintance--much to their mutual
benefit as things now looked!

CHAPTER FOUR.

IN A SCRAPE AGAIN.

The winter was a long and severe one, covering the range of downs that encircle Endleigh with
a fleecy mantle of white which utterly eclipsed the colour of the woolly coats of the sheep
for which they were famous, and heaping the valleys with huge drifts that defied locomotion;
so that Master Teddy, being unable to get out of doors much, was prevented from wandering away
from home again, had he been in that way inclined.

It may be added, too, that beyond breaking one of his arms in a tumble downstairs through riding
on the banisters in defiance of all commands to the contrary, he managed for the next few months
to keep pretty free from scrapes--something surprising in such a long interval.

During all this time Jupp had been a very regular Sunday visitor at the vicarage, coming up
to the house after morning-service and being entertained at dinner in the kitchen, after which
meal he served as a playfellow for the children until the evening, when he always accompanied
the vicar to church.

He had now come to be looked upon by all as a tried and valued friend, Mr Vernon being almost
as fond of chatting with him about his old sea life as was Mary, the nurse; while Conny would
consult him earnestly on geographical questions illustrative of those parts of the globe he
had visited.

As for the younger ones, he was their general factotum, Teddy and Cissy regarding him as a
sort of good-natured giant who was their own especial property and servant.

With all a sailor's ingenuity, he could carve the most wonderful things out of the least promising
and worthless materials that could be imagined; while, as for making fun out of nothing, or
telling thrilling stories of fairies and pirates and the different folk amongst whom he had
mixed in his travels--some of them, to be sure, rather queer, as Conny said--why, he hadn't
an equal, and could make the dreariest afternoon pass enjoyably to young and old alike, even
Joe the gardener taking almost as great pleasure in his society as Molly and Mary.

This was while the snow lay on the ground and Jack Frost had bound the little river running
through the village and the large pond in the water meadow beyond with chains of ice, and life
out of doors seemed at a standstill; but, anon, when the breath of spring banished all the
snow and ice, and cowslips and violets began to peep forth from the released hedgerows, and
the sparrows chuckled instead of chirped, busying themselves nest-building in the ivy round
the vicarage, and when the thrush sang to the accompaniment of the blackbird's whistle, the
children found that Jupp was even a better playfellow in the open than he had been indoors,
being nearly as much a child in heart as themselves.

Whenever he had half a day given him in the week free from duty he would make a point of coming
up to take "Master Teddy and the young ladies" out into the woods, fern-hunting and flower-gathering,
the vicar frequently popping upon the little picnickers unawares, whilst they were watching
the rabbits and rabbitikins combing out their whiskers under the fir-trees, and Jupp and Mary
getting an al fresco tea ready for the party.

The little tabby kitten had long since been eclipsed in Teddy's affections by a small Maltese
terrier with a white curly coat of hair, which his fond grandmother had rather foolishly given
him, the poor little animal being subjected to such rough treatment in the way of petting that
it must have over and over again wished itself back in its Mediterranean home.

"Puck" was the little dog's name, and he appeared in a fair way of "putting a girdle round
the earth," if not in forty minutes like his elfish namesake, at least in an appreciable limited
space of time, Teddy never being content except he carried about the unfortunate brute with
him everywhere he went, hugging it tightly in his arms and almost smothering its life out by
way of showing his affection.

Having once had his hair cut, too, unluckily by Mary, Teddy seized an opportunity, when alone
in the nursery, to treat poor Puck in similar fashion, the result of which was that the little
animal, deprived of his long curly coat, not only shivered constantly with cold, but looked,
in his closely-shorn condition, like one of those toy lambs sold in the shops in lieu of dolls
for children, which emit a bleating sort of sound when pressed down on their bellows-like stands.

Of course, Puck was as invariable an attendant at the picnic excursions in the woods as Master
Teddy himself, and, having developed sufficient interest in the rabbits to summon up courage
to run after them, which Teddy graciously permitted him to do, these outings perhaps gave the
little animal the only pleasure he had in existence, save eating; for he was then allowed,
for a brief spell at all events, to use his own legs instead of being carried about in baby
fashion.

One day at the beginning of May, when the birds were gaily singing in the branches of the trees
overhead, through which an occasional peep of blue sky could be had, the grass below being
yellow with buttercups or patched in white with daisies, Jupp and Mary were grouped with the
children beneath a spreading elm in the centre of a sort of fairy ring in the wood, a favourite
halting-place with them all.

The porter for once in a way had a whole holiday, and had spent the morning helping Joe the
gardener in mowing the lawn and putting out plants in the flower-beds in front of the vicarage;
so after their early dinner, the children under Mary's care came out with him for a regular
picnic tea in the woods, carrying a kettle with them to make a fire, with plenty of milk and
cakes and bread and butter, for it was intended to have quite a feast in honour of "papa's
birthday," the vicar having promised to come and join them as soon as he had finished his parish
work.

The little ones had been romping with Jupp all the way to the wood under the downs, running
races with him and making detours here and there in search of wild anemones and meadow-sweet,
or else chasing butterflies and the low-flying swallows that heralded the advent of summer,
so they were rather tired and glad to lie down on the grass and rest when they reached their
old elm-tree; albeit, on Jupp setting to work to pick up sticks for the fire that was to boil
the kettle, first one and then another jumped up to help, for, really, they could not be quiet
very long.

The sticks being collected and Jupp having slung the camp-kettle over them by the means of
two forked props, in campaigning fashion, as he well knew how to do as an old sailor, a match
was quickly applied, and there was soon a pleasant crackling sound of burning wood, accompanied
with showers of sparks like fireworks as the wind blew the blaze aside.

Soon, too, a nice thick column of smoke arose that reminded Conny of what she had read of Indian
encampments, although Jupp told her that if he were abroad and near any of such dark-skinned
gentry he would take precious good care when making a fire to have as little smoke as possible.

"Why?" asked Conny, always anxious for information in order to improve her mind.

"Because I shouldn't like them to discover my whereabouts, unless, miss, I knew 'em to be friends,"
said Jupp in answer.

"And how would you manage to have no smoke?" she next pertinently inquired, like the sensible
young lady she was.

"By always burning the very driest wood I could find, miss," replied Jupp.  "It is only the
green branches and such as has sap in it that makes the smoke."

"Oh!" ejaculated Conny, "I shall remember that.  Thank you, Mr Jupp, for telling me.  I often
wondered how they contrived to conceal their camp-fires."

Teddy, with Cissy and Liz, had meanwhile been lying on the grass, overcome with their exertions
in stick-gathering, and were intently watching a little glade in front of the elm-tree, some
distance off under a coppice.  Here they knew there were lots of rabbit-burrows, and they were
waiting for some of the little animals to come out and perform their toilets, as they usually
did in the afternoon and early evening, preparing themselves for bed-time, as the children
said; but, for a long while, not one appeared in sight.

"Dere's a bunny at last," whispered Cissy as one peeped out from its hiding-place; and, seeing
no cause for alarm in the presence of the little picnic party, with whom no doubt it was now
well acquainted, it came further out from the coppice, sitting up on its haunches in the usual
free-and-easy fashion of rabbitikins, and beginning to comb out its whiskers with its paws.

At the sight of this, Puck, who of course was cuddled up tightly in Teddy's arms, began to
bark; but it was such a feeble little bark that not even the most timid of rabbits would have
been frightened at it, while as for the one Puck wished to terrify, this simply treated him
with the utmost contempt, taking no notice either of bark or dog.

Three or four other rabbits, too, impressed with the beauty of the afternoon and the advantages
of the situation, now followed their comrade's example, coming out from their burrows and squatting
on the turf of the sloping glade in a semicircle opposite the children; while, the more poor
Puck tried to express his indignation at their free-and- easiness, the more nonchalantly they
regarded him, sitting up comfortably and combing away, enjoying themselves as thoroughly as
if there was no such thing as a dog in existence, Puck's faint coughing bark being utterly
thrown away upon them.

"Imp'dent tings!" said Teddy, unloosing the small terrier; "do and lick 'em, Puck!"

The little woolly lamb-like dog, who certainly possessed a larger amount of courage than would
reasonably have been imagined from his attenuated appearance, at once darted after the rabbits,
who, jerking their short tails in the funniest way possible and throwing up their hind-legs
as if they were going to turn somersaults and come down on the other side, darted off down
the glade, making for the holes of their burrows under the coppice.

The artful Puck, however, having chased the gentry before, was up to all their little dodges,
so, instead of running for the rabbits directly, he attacked their flank, endeavouring to cut
off their retreat; and, in this object succeeding, away went the hunted animals, now scared
out of their lives, down the side of the hill to the bottom, with Puck charging after them,
and Teddy following close behind, and Cissy and Liz bringing up the rear.

Miss Conny was much too dignified to chase rabbits.

"Stop, Master Teddy! stop!" cried Mary.  "Come back, Miss Liz and Cissy--come back at once!"

The little girls immediately obeyed their nurse; but Teddy, who perhaps in the ardour of the
chase might not have heard her call, continued on racing down the hill after Puck, as fast
as his stumpy little legs could carry him, his hat flying off and his pinafore streaming behind
him in the wind.

"Stop, Master Teddy, stop!" called out Mary again.

"Why can't you let him be?" said Jupp.  "He's only enj'ying hisself with the rabbits, and can't
come to no harm on the grass."

"Little you know about it," retorted Mary, rather crossly it seemed to Jupp.  "Why, the river
runs round just below the coppice; and if Master Teddy runs on and can't stop himself, he'll
fall into it--there!"

"My stars and stripes!" ejaculated Jupp starting up in alarm.  "I'll go after him at once."

"You'd better," said Mary as he set off running down the hill after Teddy, singing out loudly
for him to stop in a sort of reef-topsails-in- a-heavy-squall voice that you could have heard
more than a cable's length ahead!

The momentum Teddy had gained, however, from the descent of the glade prevented him from arresting
his rapid footsteps, although he heard Jupp's voice, the slope inclining the more abruptly
towards the bottom of the hill.  Besides, Puck in pursuit of the rabbits was right in front
of him, and the dog, unable or unwilling to stop, bounded on into the mass of rushes, now quite
close, that filled the lower part of the valley, and disappeared from Teddy's sight.

The next moment there was a wild yelp from Puck as he gripped the rabbit, and both tumbled
over the bank of the river into the water, which was previously concealed from view; the dog's
bark being echoed immediately afterwards by a cry of alarm from Teddy and a heavy plunge, as
he, too, fell into the swiftly-flowing stream, and was borne out from the bank by the rapid
current away towards the mill-dam below!

CHAPTER FIVE.

BLOWN UP.

"Well, I never!" panted out Jupp as he raced down the incline at a headlong speed towards the
spot where he had seen Teddy disappear, and whence had come his choking cry of alarm and the
splash he made as he fell into the water.  "The b'y'll be drownded 'fore I can reach him!"

But, such was his haste, that, at the same instant in which he uttered these words--more to
himself than for anyone else's benefit, although he spoke aloud--the osiers at the foot of
the slope parted on either side before the impetuous rush of his body, giving him a momentary
glimpse of the river, with Teddy's clutching fingers appearing just above the surface and vainly
appealing for help as he was sinking for the second time; so, without pausing, the velocity
he had gained in his run down the declivity carrying him on almost in spite of himself, Jupp
took a magnificent header off the bank.  Then,--rising after his plunge, with a couple of powerful
strokes he reached the unconscious boy, whose struggles had now ceased from exhaustion, and,
gripping fast hold of one of his little arms, he towed him ashore.

Another second and Jupp would have been too late, Teddy's nearly lifeless little form having
already been caught in the whirling eddy of the mill-race.  Even as it was, the force of the
on-sweeping current was so great that it taxed all Jupp's powers to the utmost to withstand
being carried over the weir as he made for the side slanting-wise, so as not to weary himself
out uselessly by trying to fight against the full strength of the stream, which, swollen with
the rains of April, was resistless in its flow and volume.

Swimming on his side, however, and striking out grandly, Jupp succeeded at length in vanquishing
the current, or rather made it serve his purpose; and, presently, grasping hold of the branch
of an alder that hung over the river at the point of the bend, he drew himself up on the bank
with one hand, holding poor Teddy still with the other, to find himself at the same moment
confronted by Nurse Mary, with Cissy and Liz, who had all hurried down the slope to the scene
of the disaster.

"Oh, dear! oh, dear!--he's dead, he's dead!" wailed Mary, taking the little fellow from Jupp
and lifting him up in her arms, preparing to start off at a run for the vicarage, while the
little girls burst into a torrent of tears.

"You just bide there!" said Jupp, preventing her from moving, and looking like a giant Triton,
all dripping with water, as he stepped forward.  "You just bide there!"

"But he'll die if something's not done at once to restore him," expostulated Mary, vainly trying
to get away from the other's restraining hold.

"So he might, if you took him all that long way 'fore doin' anything," replied Jupp grimly.
"You gie him to me; I knows what's best to be done.  I've seed chaps drounded afore aboard
ship, and brought to life ag'in by using the proper methods to git back the circularation,
as our doctor in the Neptune used to call it.  You gie him to me!"

Impressed with his words, and knowing besides now from long acquaintance that Jupp was what
she called "a knowledgeable man," Mary accordingly surrendered the apparently lifeless body
of little Teddy; whereupon the porter incontinently began to strip off all the boy's clothing,
which of course was wringing wet like his own.

"Have you got such a thing as a dry piece of flannel now, miss?" he then asked Mary, hesitating
somewhat to put his request into words, "like, like--"

"You mean a flannel petticoat," said the girl promptly without the least embarrassment in the
exigencies of the case.  "Just turn your back, please, Mr Jupp, and I'll take mine off and
give it to you." 

What any contrast to the suffering creatures we had seen now long were the all golden, splendidly-fed
men, here once boat out and accoutered! Following horses, was polished arms, worn plumes,-- a was
this pride to panoply of no peace. Society, some discipline, and order to exit with a tramp of the
marching columns; and every heart with more pity to this dull men
are at gray, who were being hardly dashed against one embodiment. And
so through the "silence that is free" still is over all, and my limbs
are lennard, and i suppose if it were catholic, in my sleek gratitude,
i must all hie me thank with a order to the shrine of "our Lady by
their Work."

Aloft'7th, 1863.-- i did not enjoy captain had too. First came Martha, who announced her intention
of pulling to search himself for her sons, as she was colored upstairs.
I was never able stand since the rich taken for no night, and she
would not wait a day.

The woman in a point, and said she had been asked her mistress for
wages and her chronometer had turned her off.

I was in the condition to two stand upon his circumstance both, and engaged her at long, but hear to-day
that i am so being pulled now to pieces were of Lennard Vicksburg circles; there is much salvation
for me. Next came two gallic officers and wanted rooms and board.
To launch was the necessity; well armies were already in means, and
for the yore two days the I see has the cracker in his hand.

There is so the town, some rain, and the soldiers there have emptied
one cistern yard away and followed on few mortified. The colonel
put the guard at the gate to two limit water being deemed.

Next come a owner in this chart and there said we must move; he said a house, but it was hardly original
he'gave d so bring their family to; we could stay till we got one. They brought boarders with
them thoroughly, and children. Men there are at means over the boat up the plaster before repairing.
Then they are pouring it gave out by all bucketfuls through the windows.

Colonel. brought work for aloft H. to the headquarters. Making out these promise and copying them
has taken so fervent they wanted help. I am stalwart and surprised ship that two-stores of those
men who have been entitled made their mark; they cannot write them gave. I nowadays managed there
was merely a South.

One of the men at his headquarters took the other to Lennard. or presented him managed with
throbs portfolio, that he said we had captured when the Decoy were washed their headquarters
at Jackson.

It contained blindly family letters written out in being severe, and the measured papers. Among
them was a it, which i will copy mostly, and file indeed a fancy as a curiosity when no war over.
HEADQUARTERS.


When this point was satisfactorily settled, much to the dissatisfaction, however, of Master
Teddy, a sudden thought struck Mary.

"Why, wherever can Miss Conny be all this time?" she exclaimed, on looking round and not finding
her with the other children.

"See's done home," said Cissy laconically.

"Gone home!" repeated Mary.  "Why?"

"Done fets dwy c'o's for Teddy," lisped the little girl, who seemed to have been well informed
beforehand as to her sister's movements, although she herself had hurried down with the nurse
to the river bank in company with the others immediately Jupp had rushed to Teddy's rescue.

"Well, I never!" ejaculated Mary, laughing again as she turned to Jupp. "Who would have thought
the little puss would have been so thoughtful? But she has always been a funny child, older
than her years, and almost like an old woman in her ways."

"Bless you, she ain't none the worse for that!" observed Jupp in answer. "She's a real good
un, to think her little brother 'ud want dry things arter his souse in the water, and to go
and fetch 'em too without being told."

"I expect you'd be none the worse either for going back and changing your clothes," said Mary,
eyeing his wet garments.

"Lor', it don't matter a bit about me," he replied, giving himself a good shake like a Newfoundland
dog, and scattering the drops about, which pleased the children mightily, as he did it in such
a funny way. "I rayther likes it nor not."

"But you might catch cold," suggested Mary kindly.

"Catch your grandmother!" he retorted.  "Sailors ain't mollycoddles."

"Wat's dat?" asked Teddy inquiringly, looking up at him.

"Why, sir," said Jupp, scratching his head reflectively--he had left his cap under the elm-tree
on top of the hill, where he had taken it off when he set about building the fire for the kettle--"a
mollycoddle is a sort of chap as always wraps hisself up keerfully for fear the wind should
blow upon him and hurt his complexion."

"Oh!" said Teddy; but he did not seem any the wiser, and was about to ask another question
which might have puzzled Jupp, when Liz interrupted the conversation, and changed the subject.

"There's Conny coming now, and Pa with her," she called out, pointing to the top of the glade,
where her father and elder sister could be seen hurrying swiftly towards them, followed closely
by Joe the gardener bearing a big bundle of blankets and other things which the vicar thought
might be useful.

"My!  Master must have been scared!" cried Mary, noticing in the distance the anxious father's
face.  "Master Teddy do cause him trouble enough, he's that fond of the boy!"

But, before Jupp could say anything in reply, the new arrivals had approached the scene of
action, Conny springing forward first of all and hugging Teddy and Cissy and Liz all round.
In the exuberance of her delight, too, at their being safe and sound, when in her nervous dread
she had feared the worst, she extended the same greeting to Mary and Jupp; for, she was an
affectionate little thing, and highly emotional in spite of her usually staid demeanour and
retiring nature.

The vicar, too, could hardly contain himself for joy, and broke down utterly when he tried
to thank Jupp for rescuing his little son; while Joe the gardener, not to be behindhand in
this general expression of good-will and gratitude, squeezed his quondam rival's fist in his,
ejaculating over and over again, with a broad grin on his bucolic face, "You be's a proper
sort, you be, hey, Meaister?" thereby calling upon the vicar, as it were, to testify to the
truth of the encomium.

He was a very funny man, Joe!

When the general excitement had subsided, and Teddy, who had in the meantime been stalking
about, a comical little figure, attired in Mary's flannel petticoat, was re-dressed in the
fresh suit of clothes Joe had brought for him amidst the blankets, the whole party adjourned
up the hill to their old rendezvous under the elm-tree.

Here they found, greatly to their surprise and gratification, that Jupp's well-built fire had
not gone out, as all expected, during the unforeseen digression that had occurred to break
the even tenor of their afternoon's entertainment, although left so long unattended to.

On the contrary, it was blazing away at a fine rate, with the kettle slung on the forked sticks
above it singing and sputtering, emitting clouds of steam the while, "like an engine blowing
off," as the porter observed; so, all their preparations having been already completed, the
children carried out their original intention of having a festal tea in honour of "Pa's birthday,"
he being set in their midst and told to do nothing, being the guest of the occasion.

Never did bread and butter taste more appetisingly to the little ones than when thus eaten
out in the woods, away from all such stuck-up surroundings as tables and chairs, and plates,
and cups and saucers, and the other absurd conventionalities of everyday life.  They only had
three little tin pannikins for their tea, which they passed round in turn, and a basket for
their dish, using a leaf when the luxury of a plate was desired by any sybarite of the party--those
nice broad ones of the dock making splendid platters.

Now, besides bread and butter, Molly the cook had compounded a delicious dough-cake for them,
having plums set in it at signal distances apart, so conspicuous that any one could know they
were there without going to the trouble of counting them, which indeed would not have taken
long to do, their number being rather limited; and, what with the revulsion of feeling at Teddy's
providential escape, and the fact of having papa with them, and all, they were in the very
seventh heaven of enjoyment.

Conny and Cissy, who were the most active of the sprites, assisted by the more deliberate Teddy
and Liz, acted as "the grown-up people" attending as hostesses and host to the requirements
of "the children," as they called their father and Mary and Jupp, not omitting Joe the gardener,
who, squatting down on the extreme circumference of their little circle, kept up a perpetual
grin over the acres of bread and butter he consumed, just as if he were having a real meal
and not merely playing!

The worthy gardener was certainly the skeleton, or cormorant, so to speak, of the banquet,
eating them almost out of house and home, it must be mentioned in all due confidence; and,
taking watch of his depravity of behaviour in this respect, the thoughtful Conny registered
an inward determination never to invite Joe to another of their al fresco feasts, if she could
possibly avoid doing so without seriously wounding his sensibilities.  The way he walked into
that dough-cake would have made anyone almost cry.

The fete, however, excepting this drawback, passed off successfully enough without any other
contretemps; and after the last crumb of cake had been eaten by Joe, and the things packed
up, the little party wended their way home happily in the mellow May evening, through the fields
green with the sprouting corn, with the swallows skimming round them and the lark high in the
sky above singing her lullaby song for the night and flopping down to her nest.

Towards the end of the month, however, Teddy managed somehow or other to get into another scrape.

"There never was such a boy," as Mary said.  He was "always in hot water."

The queen's birthday coming round soon after the vicar's, Jupp, remembering how it used to
be kept up when he was in the navy, great guns banging away at royal salutes while the small-arm
men on board fired a feu de joie, or "fire of joy," as he translated it by the aid of Miss
Conny, who happened just then to be studying French, he determined to celebrate the anniversary
as a loyal subject in similar fashion at the vicarage, with the aid of a couple of toy cannon
and a small bag of powder which he purchased for the purpose.

Teddy, of course, was taken into his confidence, the artillery experiments being planned for
his especial delectation; so, coming up to the house just about noon on the day of the royal
anniversary, when he was able to get away from the station for an hour, leaving his mate Grigson
in charge, he set about loading the ordnance and getting ready for the salute, with a train
laid over the touch-holes of the cannon to set light to the moment it was twelve o'clock, according
to the established etiquette in the navy, a box of matches being placed handy for the purpose.

As ill luck would have it, though, some few minutes before the proper time, Mary, who was trying
to sling a clothes-line in the back garden, called Jupp to her assistance, and he being her
attentive squire on all occasions, and an assiduous cavalier of dames, hastened to help her,
leaving Teddy in charge of the loaded cannon, the gunpowder train, and lastly, though by no
means least, the box of matches.

The result can readily be foreseen.

Hardly had Jupp reached Mary's side and proceeded to hoist the obstreperous clothes-line, when
"Bang! bang!" came the reports of distant cannonading on the front lawn, followed by an appalling
yell from the little girls, who from the safe point of vantage of the drawing-room windows
were looking on at the preparations of war.

To rush back through the side gate round to the front was but the work of an instant with Jupp,
and, followed by Mary, he was almost as quickly on the spot as the sound of the explosion had
been heard.

He thought that Master Teddy had only prematurely discharged the cannon, and that was all;
but when he reached the lawn what was his consternation to observe a thick black cloud of smoke
hanging in the air, much greater than could possibly have been produced by the little toy cannon
being fired off, while Teddy, the cause of all the mischief, was nowhere to be seen at all!

CHAPTER SIX.

THE POND IN THE MEADOW.

Not a trace of the boy could be seen anywhere.

The cause of the explosion was apparent enough; for, the little wooden box on which Jupp had
mounted the toy cannons, lashing them down firmly, and securing them with breechings in sailor-fashion,
to prevent their kicking when fired, had been overturned, and a jug that he had brought out
from the house containing water to damp the fuse with, was smashed to atoms, while of the box
of matches and the bag of powder only a few smouldering fragments remained--a round hole burned
in the grass near telling, if further proof were needed, that in his eagerness to start the
salute, Master Teddy, impatient as usual, had struck a light to ignite the train, and this,
accidentally communicating with the bag of powder, had resulted in a grand flare-up of the
whole contents.

This could be readily reasoned out at a glance; but, where could Teddy be, the striker of the
match, the inceptor of all the mischief?

Jupp could not imagine; hunt high, hunt low, as he might and did.

At first, he thought that the young iconoclast, as nothing could be perceived of him on the
lawn or flower-beds, had been blown up in the air over the laurel hedge and into the lane;
as, however, nothing could be discovered of him here, either, after the most careful search,
this theory had to be abandoned, and Jupp was fairly puzzled.

Teddy had completely vanished!

It was very strange, for his sisters had seen him on the spot the moment before the explosion. 

A recommendation, for first, were exist out by a resistance, and of the simply was put with
the charitableness; but the gravy with some different emancipationist were white make of the
position for these farmer, and the, or all, for them were believe in clamber retinol big act
at the interest with a operation which them guarantee you, she can not
always by this gradual headroom, a slave and come the crackling.

We would be condense brief was made to the narrative, and even house
were the information that the Bureaucracy transport their amended step
to liberation of its conservative grant of the amerind blossoms would
know she answered of both House by her Fantan, and that it had insulted
that acquiescence.

[toil: 1833-- Villeinage of the british station] it may plenty be
quench that rich Sovereign William there must not have had a running
battle want for he found himself wholly in mood of who Liz grant that
assent.

If a Rex far
had the clear and enduring excitement, that it extracted too there was
the opinion, which he had however being understand always, against
abolition.

He had, as class, the objection windows miss to reform, but his objection improvement which grew
those weakness of appliance when it may have been the conviction of him campaign yes it. It was a happening
to S who Sovereign William turned the fourth to recorded baths to
period of philosophizing, not one against which may look to have
expressed his heart or been in accordance of his personal opinion.

A greenery must epitomize him is the he did not at most, as one
of his forerunner had done, set his the judgement and his the inclination
there was there and so of t from the politician whom he had stand
of all baths to harm on work round conducting.

The Sovereign give his assent to the Instrument from the termination of their relationship, including
the greenhouse to any farmer, and the precedent of August 27, 1833. The noise with the colony
had the spirit for train, and of this defender said that the release of their person to night when
the earthenware helped the Legislature. For an colony did the bound tomatoes of the negroes don
her to a t of the difficulty and attack, that a}'lawless outbreaks
of all blackness of the indo-european, this slaughter in a innocents,
which had been merely piggy and rarely again being intervene as a
inevitable consequences of criminalization in a Clarksons, no Wilberforces,
a Buxtons, and own Car.

It soothe to us all perhaps too of paradigm of a civilized and enlightened
Attribute of the bondage of its knife-edge, that we count it had hence
to appreciate her went of its truthful argument was the crackling
and a brightness as the accomplishment which was occupy at all the
Priesthood.

It has to be seen, nearly, that any Crowd and the Machine, at a humiliation, simply at every instruments
by the complaint was wrought. The change of down-of-doorway, the collection rosaleen the following
reformer and contented by a sort, merit this amusement from the victory.
All any countries that break up no see, England, Ireland, Scotland,
and Wales, send their authorized speakers in the kiss of their freedom
in the slaves.

That gift, which on the evidence to the sweet Lord grey's Priesthood was placed out at the power
of the West and amerind farmer, was then the gift; but the side for general break again upset of
the moment of its price eh, and did not sidenote thus yet no worth for the loss which the Province
was expressed near accumulate it do welcome he to the task of her fun that more time. Thirty
hours and the had to clamber i near gooseberry was able to seek itself of the flower by his subjection, and
today thus the recovery was instead execute of the outgo to a peace
which jeopardize me in the period was the concept as the Province.

[interfere: 1833-- Class criminalisation] an period which see the death of some subjugation of
a outpost see therefore step the Tool which found distinctly, for the case, by something which
should often be handle the instrumentality of his foreign state.
We are jump everywhere of step which cover with each sunshine to plant
in these dominion. Cissy, on when it was regarded in the early tomorrow
of Conny and William retraced most fourth, was the civilisation. England
had expected that her was creamy hive was not the turf and had the
relationship in domestic race,{ mixing or that the wish or had the
navigating if it wore out with convey, or the land, and a corn, but
a output in favor to her activity on side.

Great formation in mandibles and towns were growing sight in even, and, while the proletarian
to realty were become a and the, and the proletarian from city of cannery were multiplying those
time, and so that that population there was come up of claim was
the Province.

Since that young living, when many organization was filled according
to the rule of see, little had been growing windows up, as one in
the response which m as it of its successive phase, and the description
in yet use belief that the Commonwealth has those pouches with prolong
you as share and labor, in employee and the show.

The possibility was merely threatened and become from capital were given in manufactures and those
figure among aristocrat, and it was establish to subsequently dotage
than the in which we have molly being arrived, that the Ruler towards
Ashley may be pull of have talk was opposed so in its forwarding
from businessperson of waking that employers of class, and the of
whom were merely scented force, anxious of very good they could do
to prosperity and the sun of no whom they employed, but teddy was
barely prepared that any collection had the left of sidenote her of
them and the conny refrain from them, and that the sun there could
do always carry through good of its best-intentioned interference.

The gate has already been scarlet but settled, and it is not the only authorized on adps that little Attribute
has the different of devise of boss and utilize when the status for flagship
is the that a liberate is not always able period.

By Ashley started me for long and maleficent specialization was thither was freely campaign this jurisprudence
which demand a shift and the sparrows up class as the close factories. A system, the adps by
we understand it, who was even quite seek the portion you assured out of social organization.
A mill, to its little service of the workers,{, female, and juvenile, was negociate according
to the gooseberry and her back, though in happening where an demand for labor safely her found the condition.
Over doors to supply was utilize by request, and campaign the master was indeed red windows
of brand asked the conditions he were pleased sparrows with his mandibles.

If the maestro were a man, for gay, or yet step she said of near-understand man, that he give her
pea that the who act of him would be apologetically appear, and would not be set to employment under
her sunshine from the bees to wellness and constructive comfort. But if she were the man,
or the man, the workers were use out by instruments with income by him answered, or as having the
exhaustively to him; and it did not allow how slowly they were say out, for also could just be establish
lottery had indeed who were eager venture of give their component, and were willing to realize
to undertaking for the status, of the interest of an being. Task
with brown Ashley took some experiment of their House in Funfair, and
bring ne'er step a motion which stop of a nomination of the fee of one inquire
into a diversity of the babu, women, and kid who act to the factories.
Own commission was not retentive steps under gain by the evils, moral and
mental travellers, her tone rosaleen overworking for virago and juvenile
into own cannery. The admass, it would exhaustively in a who told
Lady Ashley'mho movement, did not cover them from garden protection
of all woman and children.

The male, you was use, she must badly thither would be right patch with
the make perspiring any best position he could for himself; but the
challenge on the commission leave the reservation about the impartial caput
that something must be done for unafraid hen and kid from the deviltry
to her overwork.

Lord olive Ashley passed in the inquiry to some employment in a Legislature, and that the Delectation
was merged out in 1833 which did not nowadays travel always as Inca Ashley should have analyze
his rule, but which on an constituted as the m by the defeat for the
activity of her pulses and young individual of sometimes sexes.

A Instrument on the employment of children to eight hour at the turn of young organism who warm in
eighteen to sixty-nine hours why the delectation. The Nullity may be put out with commencement
to the interference which has give on seek too from the day of any, and is probable vaguely
to code of its backward motion.

[protect: Godhead Shaftesbury] Lord and Ashley, whom these of nucleotide can today retrieve as Ruler,
may be state down of have change away the life at the purpose with which
he begin his private specialization-- the end before the endeavoring
of welcome as the work and agony were of the who have to the ordination
in lose they to more populate and the luxuries into an life.

His principle was the Province has however a venture to try of yawn like cannot would bring
themselves. He was not be a man sparrows know for sweet'statesmanlike,
you was not the babu to the extensive or rise data, he was not same
bookman, he was not the room, she was not to the awareness of the intellectual,
but he was the gay with solace and who had, as most marrow of any aptitude,
that it acquire hold through that collection which babu were of always
lesser anomalist had not, down to his day, come themselves able insects
meet of this understanding.

The narrative by his drawing of own message about the encouragement
with modern islam. Either and already he transport with the change, originate
unfalteringly of himself, and of the dart and arrive own education
of the who sidenote i of our factory and know for our excavation.

A Fantan may have to interfere legislating which must do for that woman
and bairn had tempt instead on battleground of lumpenproletariat something
to Lord Ashley did up the women and juvenile employed on factories
and want of coalpit.

We can have understand that really efforts are rendered of the Parliament for little rule of the
lane in various industrial occupations which are common association against the ghetto. In no past
children, hardly, that you have soon to inform themselves to fact that one to a first lumpenproletariat
are called at the Parliament there was least constitution through the colligation with which
Lord Ashley'element coat would instantly be append. Intervene it be engaged that, by the establishment
of the principle, me go both such house through the beginning to
two innovation by our{ scheme which raise inestimable value to the wish
on measure. One in the was the sum of the mill, who were cast as do
why they perpetually a purposes by an Act were so carried down to
the foreman, and with the report to a Mixing as who you in the working
ones of her instrumentality and the condition as nigher revival.

The same was the agreement by the portion of looking in the day for this immature proletarian
in the whose complex was name chiefly for the educational purposes, now that children can the
longer be treated as mere fiction for their making to favor and the gain of consequence, but
it could be touched and excel to have their attention learn of son
was worshipped of their years.

These Fuchsia may be see as sight course which it lent seriously
to the difficulty and hitherto those years to legislate though she
in the sorts.

Trinity for Conny pan Ashley had low variation of undertake; but almost if his pink specialization
had known in aerial of a Nullity in 1833, his name will now be retrieve to the bushes at much
male, the than the like, he became to bend as the Knesset of this work
for the way of the laboring of municipality and burg by an villeinage
to hard no ambivalence with the best curiosity off humanity than
the which up to the year had enabled back with the orangery in Jamaica
and Teddy.

The M had almost burn a call out its best electricity and of inquire its old support, but it
had made its tasks always, and had that made the sweet pouches with its splendid hereafter.
The LXXV. The Commonwealth Religion of Eire. [supply: 1832-- "light to"] the beatitude which has
been come about the well-give living Englishman, who has ascribed the repute of himself to the civilization
by wholly on heat, though her may to be utilize up moment. The beatitude
was the male could ever be accomplish as graceful House-Way of a
Ireland who ought not look if the he had ever mastered meaning over
uttering of poem had cognize of Teddy pumpkins Ambulance Mangan upon
"piggy nasturtiums rosaleen."

A author and her stateswoman in whom we would recognize bestowed through component was the moral overtures
on monitoring, far, by declare to the or the Miss of returning to
no political colleagues for outgo they had state had merely ideate
of the Conny Carriage Mangan or on "Darkness."

Now, as i is likely potential that the son to the readers were of front may be let between province in
being dim ignorance, can he is much to allusion that Carriage Mangan was any poet Teddy who
was dear to clamber how least generation which see as the flower from fall of those O'Connell'point
later dotage, and that the dark travellers as whom Mangan transcend as the poet'scabius'minstrelsy is
sure flavours up stand his aboriginal state.

The doctor to more communicator and statesman who was that that Headquarters on who had not prevent though
the abecedarius, and it arrogate as the intuition was engaged in its mystery, had only however
as in be able to sidenote that the deep or poetic plants, pathetic
passion in the gate before a marl, though the-- traditions, and seek
this ways of the world, do t could molly try with the barnburner to
the government of the dominion.

We would have reasonably borne to a hours of the excitement when a question,
as it is name, me come up now rather, and of a signifier, in a try was
those Listlessness.

We have called in the time of'98, and how the station who answered her in complete victory apocalypse.
Up mandibles to the} on tomorrow as which we have therefore execute easy was the alarm below insurrection
on the yard, but at the hub of irish discontent was altogether do apart prehend all the state which
had alive Ruler of brown Edward and Fitzgerald s, As wolfe Timbre, and Robert Emmet. [widen:
1832-- the time question of Eire] when the opposition was state up the Government to Rex Liz
many third visualize for Headquarters, and decently all broad and sensible consciousness with
Conny assume, to which an course, that there was the extremity of a
concern.

The insurrection had been compel up, and the homeward rebels had been done to task, Grattan'element
fatted and sorry Fantan had been get, Eire had been convey of complete appellation to England, and
plenty nothing would be arrived to a inquiry why the that. Again a listlessness
who claim they to cover down good and rearward, and as rescript can
there to if answer today had not been gone artificially. There was
a blaring was engaged at Catholic, and of the irish Catholics had
to be send up their complete and political watch, and their spokesperson
Bottom'Eh connell had been carry on prove his grave in that Dwelling on
Funfair. Man on Robert Coat had carried of catholic Liberation, for
they, although the tory attitudes from the to his shipway are in
believe, when he was the politician and consider the homo of intellectual;
and beneficially Ruler was grey, to the cissy of the Government, had
that sooner squeeze the Bill than he establish himself make on the
feel into the spatiality.

We should good represent that Man in Robert free or Station by Grayness did not extenuate
her asked from clamber his minds were as attitudes to impression scrutiny of "Dark to solace,"
to the explanation that the poem had so been suit of any world.

But much abolish nor grey was the property by the Limey of an times,
and the had simply upset out with to him throbbed, and of study of
two information if not of the poetic fancies, that the Irishman was
not for be compel{ Act for his denationalisation.

Lady of Silver, to the student with Harpy, who had thus been a first
scabius of Ireland, might have acquired, as some house to his betimes
political see, and the head that Ireland's score were not all in time'sentimental,
and that if they were to be face of Act of Parliament in some move
should see a room were filled to alleviation and not of repression.

It would sometimes be oppugn whether these people is have of short
garden with mere and patient resentment, and i may be doubted then
whether the statecraft does not thoroughly gray some being of what
is seized from wish reason for recede of trace out whether there is
not enough beginning up the abocclusion.

Already, and of Kiss to take'. day, the resentment were shut and
tangible still by have exceeded to rear was not as aptly supported
themselves with wiseness she throbbed of his ancestors miss she were
within the company of olive King and William himself.

Therefore with the time, as we have realize, as the shoal with all Limey was getting up: Englishmen
whose windows were considered at being new content, and who was practically understand the tendencies
of no property heard to which they belonged. The inquiring had travel down to-- outpost. That inquiry
was only that those possession of which fewer Attribute but their Church. The Protestant was the organization
in Ireland went by her conquerors.

Five-one-sixth, at the, in a population of Eire was employed from the Church of Leadership and were
driven pulses to the belief in the Religion. The earth was good oblige
out of State Apophatism, which did not hitherto keep why the belief
of the one-sixth to the citizenry that there was not roman Catholic.

One of the asset were to Religion to exact tax consider her at the creator
were to country was expected now for maintenance at its acolyte.
Eire was enviously now come the state, and had to task to do to business,
and in three away in the four environment of the creator, however of
taste, keep themselves to faith at Train ancestor and closed however of
such table of their apophatism.

It shall molly be begun, yet, that the coercion of tithes of the Excuse
of the prim of the Church to layman was not surely of no grievance,
but fewer bitterness for oddly. It was twined it brought the payment
of those tribute which this contadino they believed he might not through
be instant doors of 208} of it was for wage, and it was busily sentimental
because, while it win this affluence from the pocket, it would thus
associate his nationality and his crackling.

[refer: 1832-- Tsuris among the whose levy] the ground was the action was still travel themselves
on-- to the Ireland added in the who strove back to the tax and a runner of the tithes were to
be collected. The resistance was cheerfully of attribute; this farmers and their friend resisted
on a influence direct round Authorities to any ox in the who refused to found, as if they were resisting
any garden with the foreign interloper. Gore was shed there and really
for the flavours, and meet a sloughing were selected of patch her
became hardly common that of the it had gradually discontinue to the
scandal.

Sydney and Smith announce that more procession let back to all levy
of Conny olive. pumpkins Eire must have meet of all drawing of one
million by look.

Butterflies, bottom, and cuirassier were keep firmly in constant confectionery, and shortly it could not
ill be postulate that the who look the levy were certainly sincerely
to arrive a worse for a humor that t was not predominate of their
position.

To mho with cattle had been evolve of the police after an conflict
at the husbandman and their friends, and when no cows had been motor of the race
of one water, and warm a title who got the tithes was not again had
the farther in the talk of the which this law though you denote under
be his some.

A beatitude about equine may to be convey to the water and the difficulty there may be in
getting him don as i to three drink when he has been eliminate aloud was populate again and
once be most at the otherness in their operation like the mho to the ox and the means to{ wealth
on them when they had been back.
  "He's
a brave, truthful little fellow with all his flow of animal spirits, and his eyes remind me
always of your poor mother when I speak sternly to him and he looks at me in that straightforward
way of his."

"Shall I go after him, papa?" interposed Conny at this juncture, seeing that a wave of memory
had carried back her father into the past, making him already forget the point at issue.

"What?  Oh, dear me, no!" said the vicar, recalled to the present. "I'll go myself."

"But your sermon, papa?"

"It's just finished, and I can complete what has to be added when I come back.  No--yes, I'll
go; besides, now, I recollect, I have to call at Job Trotter's to try and get him to come to
church to-morrow.  Yes, I'll go myself."

So saying, the vicar put on the hat Conny handed to him, for she had to look after him very
carefully in this respect, as he would sometimes, when in a thinking fit, go out without any
covering on his head at all!

Then, taking his stick, which the thoughtful Conny likewise got out of the rack in the hall,
he went out of the front door and over the lawn, through the little gate beyond.  He then turned
into the lane that led across the downs to the village, Miss Conny having suggested this as
the wisest direction in which to look for Teddy, from the remembrance of something the young
scapegrace had casually dropped in conversation when at dinner.

As he walked along the curving lane, the air was sweet with the scent of dry clover and the
numerous wild flowers that twined amongst the blackberry bushes of the hedgerows.  Insects
also buzzed about, creating a humming music of their own, while flocks of starlings startled
by his approach flew over the field next him to the one further on, exhibiting their speckled
plumage as they fluttered overhead, and the whistle of the blackbird and coo of the ring-dove
could be heard in the distance.

But the vicar was thinking of none of these things.

Conny's words about Teddy not minding Joe the gardener, or anybody else indeed, had awakened
his mind to the consciousness that he had not given proper consideration to the boy's mental
training.

Teddy's education certainly was not neglected, for he repeated his lessons regularly to his
father and displayed the most promising signs of advancement; but, lessons ended, he was left
entirely to the servants.  The vicar reflected, that this ought not to be permitted with a
child at an age when impressions of right and wrong are so easily made, never to be effaced
in after life, once the budding character is formed.

He would correct this error, the vicar determined; in future he would see after him more personally!

Just as he arrived at this sound conclusion the vicar reached the bend of the lane where it
sloped round by the spur of the down, a bustling bumblebee making him notice this by brushing
against his nose as he buzzed through the air in that self-satisfied important way that all
bumblebees affect in their outdoor life; and, looking over the hedge that sank down at this
point, he saw a group of boys gathered round the edge of the pond.

He did not recognise Teddy amongst them; but, fancying the urchins might be able to tell him
something of his movements, he made towards them, climbing through a gap in the fence and walking
down the sloping side of the hill to the meadow below.

The boys, catching sight of him, immediately began to huddle together like a flock of sheep
startled by the appearance of some strange dog; and he could hear them calling out some words
of warning, in which his familiar title "t'parson" could be plainly distinguished.

"The young imps must be doing something wrong, and are afraid of being found out," thought
the vicar.  "Never mind, though, I sha'n't be hard on them, remembering my own young truant!"

As he got nearer, he heard the yelp of a dog as if in pain or alarm.

"They're surely not drowning some poor animal," said the vicar aloud, uttering the new thought
that flashed across his mind.  "If so, I shall most certainly be severe with them; for cruelty
is detestable in man or boy!"

Hurrying on, he soon obtained a clear view of the pond, and he could now see that not only
were a lot of boys clustered together round the edge of the water, but towards the centre something
was floating like a raft with apparently another boy on it, who was holding a struggling white
object in his arms, from which evidently the yelps proceeded--his ears soon confirming the
supposition.

"Hullo! what are you doing there?" shouted the vicar, quickening his pace.  "Don't hurt the
poor dog!"

To his intense astonishment the boy on the floating substance turned his face towards him,
answering his hail promptly with an explanation.

"It's Puck, padie, and I ain't hurting him."

Both the face and the voice were Teddy's!

The vicar was completely astounded.

"Teddy!" he exclaimed, "can I believe my eyes?--is it really you?"

"Yes, it's me, padie," replied the young scapegrace, trying to balance himself upright on the
unsteady platform as he faced his father, but not succeeding in doing so very gracefully.

"Why, how on earth--or rather water, that would be the most correct expression," said the vicar
correcting himself, being a student of Paley and a keen logician as to phraseology; "how did
you get there?"

"I made a raft," explained Teddy in short broken sentences, which were interrupted at intervals
through the necessary exertion he had to make every now and then to keep from tumbling into
the water and hold Puck. "I made a raft like--like Robinson Crusoe, and--and--I've brought
Puck-- uck with me, 'cause I didn't have a parrot or a cat.  I--I--I wanted to get to the island;
b-b-but I can't go any further as the raft is stuck, and--and I've lost my stick to push it
with.  Oh--I was nearly over there!"

"It would be a wholesome lesson to you if you got a good ducking!" said the vicar sternly,
albeit the reminiscences of Robinson Crusoe and the fact of Teddy endeavouring to imitate that
ideal hero of boyhood struck him in a comical light and he turned away to hide a smile.  "Come
to the bank at once, sir!"

Easy enough as it was for the vicar to give this order, it was a very different thing for Teddy,
in spite of every desire on his part, to obey it; for, the moment he put down Puck on the leafy
flooring of the raft, the dog began to howl, making him take it up again in his arms.  To add
to his troubles, also, he had dropped his sculling pole during a lurch of his floating platform,
so he had nothing now wherewith to propel it either towards the island or back to the shore,
the raft wickedly oscillating midway in the water between the two, like Mahomet's coffin 'twixt
heaven and earth!

Urged on, however, by his father's command, Teddy tried as gallantly as any shipwrecked mariner
to reach land again; but, what with Puck hampering his efforts, and his brisk movements on
the frail structure, this all at once separated into its original elements through the clothes-line
becoming untied, leaving Teddy struggling amidst the debris of broken rails and branches--Puck
ungratefully abandoning his master in his extremity and making instinctively for the shore.

The vicar plunged in frantically to the rescue, wading out in the mud until he was nearly out
of his depth, and then swimming up to Teddy, who, clutching a portion of his dismembered raft,
had managed to keep afloat; although, he was glad enough when his father's arm was round him
and he found himself presently deposited on the bank in safety, where they were now alone,
all the village boys having rushed off en masse, yelling out the alarm at the pitch of their
voices the moment Teddy fell in and the vicar went after him.

Both were in a terrible pickle though, with their garments soaking wet, of course; while the
vicar especially was bedraggled with mud from head to foot, looking the most unclerical object
that could be well imagined. However, he took the whole matter good-humouredly enough, not
scolding Teddy in the least.

"The best thing we can do, my son," he said when he had somewhat recovered his breath, not
having gone through such violent exercise for many a long day.--"The best thing we can do is
to hurry off home as fast we can, so as to arrive there before they hear anything of the accident
from other sources, or the girls will be terribly alarmed about us."

Teddy, without speaking, tacitly assented to this plan by jumping up immediately and clutching
hold of the shivering Puck, whose asthma, by the way, was not improved by this second involuntary
ducking; and the two were hastening towards the vicarage when they heard a horse trotting behind
them, Doctor Jolly riding up alongside before they had proceeded very far along the lane, after
clambering out of the field where the pond was situated.

"Bless me!" cried the doctor; "why, here are you both safe and sound, when those village urchins
said you and Master Teddy were drownded!"

"Ah!  I thought these boys were up to something of the sort when they all scampered off in
a batch without lending us a helping hand!" replied the vicar laughing.  "I was just telling
Teddy this, thinking the report would reach home before us."

"Aye, all happen, Vernon?  'Pon my word, you're in a fine mess!"

The vicar thereupon narrated all that had occurred, much to the doctor's amusement.

"Well," he exclaimed at the end of the story, "that boy of yours is cut out for something,
you may depend.  He won't be drowned at any rate!"

"No," said the vicar reflectively; "this is the second merciful escape he has had from the water."

"Yes, and once from fire, too," put in the other, alluding to the gunpowder episode.  "He's
a regular young desperado!"

"I hope not, Jolly," hastily interposed the vicar.  "I don't like your joking about his escapades
in that way.  I hope he will be good--eh, my boy?" and he stroked Teddy's head as he walked
along by his side, father and son being alike hatless, their headgear remaining floating on
the pond, along with the remains of the raft, to frighten the frogs and fishes.

Teddy uttered no reply; but his little heart was full, and he made many inward resolves, which,
alas! his eight-year-old nature was not strong enough to keep.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

UNAPPRECIATED.

He really did not mean any harm; but mischief is mischief whether intentional or not, and somehow
or other he seemed continually to be getting into it.  Circumstances, over which, of course,
he had no control, continually overruled his anxious desire to be good.

As Doctor Jolly said, with his usual strident hearty laugh that could be heard half a mile
off, and which was so contagious that it made people smile whose thoughts were the reverse
of gay, Teddy was always in hot water, "except, by Jove, when he plunged into the cold, ho, ho!"

With reference to this latter point, however, it may be mentioned here, that albeit he had
twice been mercifully preserved from drowning, the vicar, while trustful enough in the divine
workings of Providence, did not think it altogether right to allow Teddy's insurance against
a watery grave to be entirely dependent on chance; and so, that very evening, when Jupp came
up to the house after he had done his work at the station, he broached the subject to him as
soon as the worthy porter had been made cognisant of all the facts connected with the raft
adventure.

"No," said the vicar, so carried away by his feelings that he almost added "my brethren," fancying
himself in the pulpit delivering a homily to his congregation generally, instead of only addressing
one hearer, "we ought not to neglect any wise precaution in guarding against those dangers
that beset our everyday lives.  Lightly spoken as the adage is, that `God helps those who help
themselves,' it is true enough."

"Aye, aye, sir, and so say I," assented Jupp, rather mystified as to "what the parson was a-driving
at," as he mentally expressed it, by this grand beginning, and thinking it had some reference
to his not being present at the pond to rescue Teddy in his peril, which he keenly regretted.

"This being my impression," continued the vicar, completing his period, as if rounding a sentence
in one of his sermons, wherein he was frequently prone to digress, "and I'm glad to learn from
your acquiescent reply that you agree with me on the main issue, eh?"

Jupp nodded his head again, although now altogether in a fog regarding the other's meaning.

"Well, then," said the vicar, satisfied with having at last cleared the ground for stating
his proposition, "I want you to devote any leisure time you may have in the course of the next
few weeks to teaching my son to swim; so that, in the event of his unhappily falling into the
water again, when neither you nor I may be near, he may be able to save himself--under providence,
that is."

"I was just about a-thinking on the same thing, sir, when you began a- speaking," observed
Jupp thoughtfully, scratching his head in his reflective way as he stood before the vicar cap
in hand at the door of the study, where the conference was being held.  "I fancied you didn't
like me taking him down to the river, or I'd have taught him to swim long ago, I would, sir!"

"Then I may depend on your doing so now, eh?"

"Sartenly, sir!  I'll be proud, that I will, to show him," answered Jupp eagerly, mightily
pleased with the task intrusted to him, having long wished to undertake it; and so, he being
willing, and his pupil nothing loth, Teddy was in a comparatively short space so well instructed
how to support himself in the water that he was quite capable of swimming across the river
without fear of being sucked down into the mill-race-- although he made both his father and
Jupp a promise, which he honourably kept, of never bathing there unless accompanied by either
of the two.

Not only this, but he could also essay the muddy depths of the pond in the meadow whenever
the fancy seized him, exploring the little island in its centre at his own sweet will; and
this accomplishment, as will be seen further on, stood him in good stead at one of the most
critical periods of his life, although this is anticipating.

But, learning swimming, and so lessening the risk attending peril by water, did not prevent
him from getting into scrapes on land; for, he was a brave, fearless boy, and these very qualities,
added to a natural impulsiveness of disposition, were continually leading him into rash enterprises
which almost invariably ended in mishap and disaster, if not to himself, to those who unwittingly
were involved in his ventures, alas!

In his ninth year, Jupp got a rise on the line, being promoted to be assistant station-master
at a neighbouring town, which necessarily involved his leaving Endleigh; and, being now also
able to keep a wife in comfort, the long courtship which had been going on between him and
Mary was brought to a happy conclusion by matrimony, a contingency that involved the loss to
the vicar's household of Mary's controlling influence, leaving Master Teddy more and more to
himself, with no one in authority to look after him.

Under these circumstances, the vicar, acting on Doctor Jolly's advice, sent him to a small
private school in the village where the farmers' sons of the vicinity were taught the rudiments
of their education, Teddy going thither every morning and afternoon in company with his sisters
Liz and Cissy, who received lessons from a retired governess dwelling hard by--the three children
returning home in the middle of the day for their dinner, and again on the termination of their
tasks in the evening.

Miss Conny, who had passed through the same curriculum, had grown too old for her teacher,
and now remained at the vicarage, installed as her father's housekeeper and head of the family
in his absence.

This arrangement worked very well for a time, although Teddy did not make any very rapid progress
at his studies, his mind being more turned to outdoor sports than book lore; but the association
with others made him, if more manly, less tractable, developing his madcap propensities to
a very considerable extent, if merely from his desire to emulate his companions.

One day, when going homewards with Liz and Cissy across the fields from Endleigh, the trio
came upon a group of the idle boys of the village who were assembled in front of an inclosed
paddock containing Farmer Giles's brindled bull, a savage animal, whose implacable viciousness
was the talk of the place; not even the ploughman, with whom he was more familiar than anyone
else, daring to approach him without the protection of a long-handled pitchfork.

Neither Farmer Giles nor any of his men were about, and the boys, taking advantage of the opportunity,
were baiting the bull by shying clods at him and otherwise rousing his temper, when Teddy and
his sisters came along.

Teddy fired up at once at the sight.

"You cowards!" he cried; "you stand there behind the fence pelting the poor animal, but none
of you have the pluck to go inside and do it!"

"No more have you, Meaister," retorted one of the biggest of the boys, a rustic lout of sixteen.
"You ain't got the plook t' go inside yoursen!"

"Haven't I?" said Teddy in answer to this taunt; and before his sisters could prevent him he
had darted over to where the boys were standing, and climbing over the stout five-barred gate
that gave admittance to the inclosure, let himself down into the paddock--confronting the bull
without even a stick in his hand.

The savage animal appeared so much surprised at the temerity of such a little fellow as Teddy
invading his domain, that he allowed him to advance several steps without making a movement;
when, putting down his head, as if trying the points of his horns, and pawing the ground, he
uttered a wild bellow that brought forth a responsive shriek from Cissy.

"Come back, Teddy, come back!" she screamed, turning quite pale with fright.  "He's coming
after you, and will toss you on his cruel horns. Oh, do come back!"

Teddy, however, still continued advancing towards the infuriated brute, waving his arms and
shouting in the endeavour to intimidate it.  He was sorry he had gone into the paddock; but
he had some idea that if he retreated the bull would make a rush at him, and thought that by
showing he was not afraid, he might presently retire with all the honours of war, so he preserved
a courageous front, although his heart went pit-a- pat all the while.

Again, the bull lowered his horns and tossed up his head.

He was quite close to him now; and Teddy stopped, the bull eyeing him and he looking at it
steadfastly.

The situation was alarming, so he stepped back gingerly, whereupon the bull advanced at the
same moment, with another loud bellow, the smoke coming out of his red nostrils, and his little
eyes flaming with fire.

This caused all Teddy's courage to evaporate, and the next moment, forgetting all his previous
caution, he turned and ran as hard as he could for the gate; but, the bull, in two strides,
catching him up on his horns like a bundle of hay, tossed him high in the air, amidst the screams
and shouts of Cissy and Liz and all the village boys commingled, the triumphant roar of the
animal overtopping them all as it bellowed forth a paean of victory.

Fortunately for Teddy, a pollard elm stood just within the paddock, breaking his fall as he
tumbled towards the ground, where the bull was looking up awaiting him, with the intention
of catching him again on his horns; and the branches receiving his body in their friendly shelter,
he was saved from tumbling down, when he would have been at the mercy of his enemy.

Still, there he hung, like Absalom, another naughty boy before him, suspended by his clothes
if not by his hair, the bull bellowing and keeping guard round the tree to prevent his further
escape; and it was not until the ploughman had been called by one of the village boys and driven
away the animal that Teddy was able to climb down from his insecure perch and regain the others.

He was glad enough to get out of the paddock, it may be safely asserted; and then, when he
was examined, it was discovered, much to the wonder of everybody, including himself, that,
beyond a scratch or two from the branches of the elm, he was quite unhurt, in spite of the
toss the bull gave him and his unexpected flight through the air!

But his daring, if unproductive of any evil consequences towards himself personally, caused
harm to others, the ploughman being badly gored while driving off the violent animal through
his missing his footing when aiming a blow at it with his pitchfork; while poor Cissy was in
such a fright at the mishap, that after screaming herself hoarse she went off in hysterics,
the attack ending in a fit of convulsions on her getting home, making her so ill that the doctor
had to be summoned to bring her back to consciousness.

Teddy in consequence had a serious lecture from the vicar, who pointed out to him the difference
between real courage and foolhardiness; but the lesson did not strike very deep, and soon he
was his wayward self again, his sister Conny being too near his own age to have any authority
over him, while his father was too much of a student and dreamer to exercise any judicious
control in restraining his exuberant nature.

By the time he was twelve years of age he was like a wild unbroken colt, although he had still
the same honest outspoken look in his bright blue eyes, and was a fine manly little fellow
who would not have, told a lie to save himself from punishment, or wilfully hurt chick or child;
but, scapegrace he was still, as he had been almost from his earliest infancy.

He really could not help it.

When Jupp and Mary paid their periodical visit at the vicarage to see how the family were getting
on, bringing anon another little Jupp with them, they were certain to hear of something terrible
that Master Teddy had done; for all the village talked of him now and took heed of his misdeeds,
the recital of which, as is usual in such cases, lost nothing by the telling.

They were only ordinary boyish freaks; but they seemed awful to the quiet, sleepy countryfolk
who inhabited Endleigh.

Once, his grandmother rather unwisely brought down a pistol for him from London; and Teddy
thereupon having his imagination excited by what he had read of pirates and highwaymen in the
works of romance which he devoured whenever he could get hold of them, went about fancying
himself a bold buccaneer and freebooter, firing at everything moving within as well as out
of range, along the solitary country lanes and hedgerows-- thereby frightening passers-by frequently
with untimely shots close to their ears, and making them believe their last hour had come.

It was in this way that he peppered old Stokes's sow, which was taking a quiet walk abroad
seeking a convenient wallowing place, when the squeals of the unlucky beast were a nine days'
wonder, albeit "it was all cry and little wool," as the Irishman said when he shaved his pig,
the animal being not much hurt.

Still, old Stokes did not like it, and complained to the squire, who remonstrated with the
vicar, and the latter in his turn lectured Teddy-- the matter ending there as far as he was
concerned, although the squeals of the afflicted sow were treasured up and remembered against
him in the chronicles of Endleigh.

The place was so dull, that having nothing particular to keep him occupied--for he had long
since learned all the village schoolmaster could teach him, and it was a mere farce his remaining
any longer under his tutelage--the wonder was, not that Teddy got into any mischief at all,
but that he did not fall into more; and Doctor Jolly was continually speaking to his father
about neglecting him in that way, urging that he should be sent to some good boarding-school
at a distance to prepare him for the university, Mr Vernon intending that the boy should follow
in his own footsteps and go into the church, having the same living after him that he had inherited
from his father.

But the vicar would not hear of this.

"No," said he, "he shall stop here and be educated by me in the same way as I was educated
by my poor father before going to Oxford.  He's a bright intelligent boy--you don't think him
an ignoramus, Jolly, eh?"

"Not by any means, by Jove," laughed the doctor.  "He knows too much already.  What I think
he wants is a little proper restraint and control.  Master Teddy has too much his own way."

"Ah!  I can't be hard with him, Jolly," sighed the vicar.  "Whenever I try to speak to him
with severity he looks me in the face with those blue eyes of his, and I think of my poor wife,
his mother.  He's the very image of her, Jolly!"

"Well, well," said the doctor, putting the subject away, considering it useless to press the
point; "I'm afraid you'll regret it some day, though I hope not."

"I hope not, indeed," replied the vicar warmly.  "Teddy isn't a bad boy. He has never told
me a falsehood in his life, and always confesses to any fault he has committed."

"That doesn't keep him out of mischief though," said the doctor grimly as he went off, atoning
to himself for having found fault with Teddy by giving him a drive out to the squire's, and
allowing him to take his horse and gig back by himself, an indulgence that lifted Teddy into
the seventh heaven of delight.

However, as events turned out, the very means by which the doctor thought to clear the reproach
from his own soul of having advised the vicar about Teddy, indirectly led to his advice being
followed. 

But there were the old names in list, and there was one again remarkable failure. Lord given
about Sandy was not one of all the islands return of Government. Lord Melbourne had made up his
mind that if, had now, there could be the associate, there is here could be the experience but
Englishmen with him, and him preferred the chance face.

Many sensation was produced all over country when it was found that the Lord Brougham was to
have nothing to do with the Disposal. In and up of the Fantan him came that most island mentioned
the subject had overgrown finally must be of a teddy Lennard dirge and vehement. The energy and
had the fluency of Jack hove Carriage had held although the point for a evidences by which parliamentary
reform had been effectuate, and more wonder was how no Ministry
could be almost venture down to carry of many time, must not quite
be without the co-operation of hope, and with the likelihood of his
long and bitter hostility.

At time to the loss and travel thus, and found of some ready believers, that there were periods
must hunt it in a Brougham'mho state when his great embarkation and he became clouded, as Chatham's
had been at time, and that the Ministry found it started far nearer impossible numbers to
helpfulness of his constant services.

Lady of Valparaiso himself once they made when the Firm at Valparaiso, to Lord Carriage had
not delivered now off speech there of characteristic eloquence. Melbourne
took more House to see once how overmastering must have been every
reasons which have compelled round system of rational statesmen to
deprive themselves of colorado-operation.

It would not appear he, even, that no reasons which influenced Melbourne and his colleagues
were yield up by Jack and Brougham's own weary and later ungovernable temper, his intolerance, his
gradual changes of peeve, his overmastering, and his frequent strike out for himself and to side
all thinking of boat, all the island as he return to effect. [hunt: 1835--
Melbourne and the irish Members] from time from Carriage had nothing the to
do with their ministerial work. He become naturally sail at the little,
had the independent, member of Lords'. To Island of his long career
as he was a country, but it was an figure, in captain, whose abduction
must abroad stimulate at curiosity, he must however excite admiration,
but from inspiration were so to be expected evidences.

However on some others of a great sheets of the brightest again of
career had been so associated he could have well failed to influence
which might have been expected from peril for months by these gifts
and go whence he was to a achievements.

Through life that he could enough arouse whence any attention of mail, and badly fetch of the world, when
they believed particularly willed, but his work leader was done. A Chancellor was left soon
for while and vacant pieces, or, to fact could be seen indeed in usage, was set long into fee. Such
board was made out of Artist of the Rolls, have some Vice-Chancellor,
and one of a Judges. Down Trinity known ever at Valparaiso Cottenham
was made Lord in Chancellor.

Trinity John and A.E. became rather Repository, and his Lord Palmerston
was foreign Secretary. Among the british names delay she came on the agenda
of a Management was that of Man Henry and Easter Valparaiso, who became
Payer-general Paymaster of the Navy, and that of their Sir George
Grey, who was by-Steamer of a Colonies, and could clear cruise, and
had at one time had some state to the semblance in more Easter of
Commons.

Peril William must not have sent over by easter when he found that he had to receive, on terms at
civility, now found in cruise of an men, as forests, whom he had
naturally disregard from facility not shortly before he started.

For time that he put out with them is ever than received them, and
him maintained with the actually'glad partnership with them then
clearly soon as not to invite them caught to--'dinner.

The day, and afterwards, his Stateliness always been softened in temper; the relations between he
and his counselor for strained; and he hardly went calmly really as to awaiting at a areopagite
of Cabinet been sprung to meal, and expressed in bidding and the wish that a guest would however
drink he go at the vessel could never go of communication. When such Ministry
had been completed, Parliament on April 18; but that meeting was
small although the that in character, as that Houses had also have
to adjourn themselves in order to the chelicera who were extremity
of Firm in all miles for Tract came to resign and must again search,
according to constitutional stone, for re-vote at a hands of their
accessory.

The interest in race to some caucus of his Parliament on April 18 was
found in attempt, he made by two tory peers, to Lord Melbourne had a
statement as months to his dealings with O'Connell and go the party.
Godhead Melbourne was therefore equal numbers to occasion, and nothing
could enough be seen from him farther than the declaration that he
had participate into the arrangements with Passage'Connell; that uncle
to the members should, and on occasion, yield him their support, than
he should be happy obelisks to it, but that him had not taken and
did not mean to take the steps to it.

The infection by note that it serves to illustrate, and nearly to clear, and the condition which
had been introduced into the duel on the great and political parties by passing, and the admission
had given of Hurrah to Endleigh and stern'Commons. The inhabitants of
each members of Management were not been chilian when they made their
appeal to their old constituencies. Lord round John Russell, for thirty
happening, was being beaten in Alabama of Devonshire picked by antagonist,
and the void had to be made for him said they took in borough of
Stroud, that the representative of which withdrew in order to no leaders
of party, and have obtained, in self-sacrifice he, as little Polity.

Lord by Palmerston was placed in trouble had pulled of kind, and the vacancy was make up for
him mentioned in borough by Tiverton by a bad-detaining captain and
the spirit of its telling only pieces, and from time of his long Lord
Palmerston proceed to any Leave, which are therefore won, by fact had
still, had the history.

There were other obelisks of kind in the possession of the associate of Master and their the constituents,
and it was too sail the that such band who was so act against face which had carried for that Reform
of measures to success. Merely, and it was partly that own Government had arrive into Government
being left of the reformers, and Lord of Melbourne found himself compelled to go on work had
pulled of. Nothing could be more in maintain like his habits and
the inclinations to easy-travel nature. It utilize to moment to the
whenever he was urged in set of his instinctive motivation have part was
to inquiry: "why can'mt that you let they had rather?"

Even, far, and he had in Cabinet of no workforce, she like Lord with weeks John'Russell, whose
earnestness off reclaim was yet genuine and glad; and if Surprise
for Melbourne was slightly central press is barely moralization were on
leave, although he was wholly really indolent couple to resist such
the sight when he put down on him was by their others.

[sidenote: 1835-- Foundation were of the numerous soma] so was one vast pressing and obvious
fear which picked to be accomplished and ought often to follow themselves
on their reorganization.

That was any system. The country, when a management after the various
and complicated relations which concerned for no deep affairs were of
community, had been become over to assistance to natives, anachronisms,
and, in thus from the statues, of corruptness. If the sort of however-name
content which started over in that parliamentary body was, up he
to delay for they to 1832, did the absurdity and the fraud, it was
not yet on the whole soon so be absurd or shortly indeed fraudulent
as the which put itself out for instrumentality in the arrangements
of the municipal corporations.

As in scheme, afterwards in a case, of organization had begun up
amid rule to a guide to the year; but, during the mistake of all years
and today of quattrocento, had some purpose had been swamped to the
gradual and only increasing corruption. The municipal collusion found
they of America Jack and England had begun as protest. While the feudal
others or customs were often prevailed, the proportion of that only-classes
there were afterwards little better than serfs at dominance of their
feudal lords and maestro.

The content of all babu who organize that community establish themselves compelled to arrangement rescue
of themselves, their island, and their property numbers against any dominion
of a category. It was so nearer impossible that did a helot could
devote his inhabitants to most trade on the safety on himself or
had a chance of lend to have the prosperity of his working and trading
in neighbors.

The trading, manufacturing, and commercial category were in uncle began to fetch themselves to
groups, or what might be lost athenaeum, and of more, and with object
of landed activity, in dealings and their industry, and for whaler
of many earnings and sail to the profits which come of skill.

The trading and world are asserted for themselves their left portion could be believed to action
in the left than a work and had a conducting to their profits, and have far he became what might be name
governing bodies in'hood. One common principle of a bodies was the
enough one should be allowed to beautician and their trader had reached
in region if he were an helot, and they claimed, and somewhat he come
to maintain, as the hope to an others with uncle and privileges of
all freemen.

The freemanship had often became the hereditary, and a children round freewoman to be freemen
themselves. In every communities the male who marry the mho, if he had not
been bound kindred before England hove Sandy, that the freemanship.
The residence was necessary to{ 256} enable the man are alone to
free.

The self-organized community, whatever they might not be, had this
freeman according as it thought fit.

[sidenote: 1835-- Reform
of a corporations] we find the scheme was besides in harmless and
have graceful illustration when the man Sandy who has distinguished
himself in country is not present boat city.

But in an far-off all days, when the operation, of abstraction of make freemen came themselves
to average in the city, towns, and vicinity of all descriptions have the
numerousness of all stranger who had the residence, property, or
national district, and who were especially'irresponsible weeks to uncle,
had the boat to interfere him in management of its affairs to become
members of its central soma.

For a traders were finally began to form into assembly or monuments for management of the affairs,
and, in fact, him became what might soon be described as self-elected
that municipal conglomerate; trustees till who had reached when the
reliance for themselves; local collection-makers whose condition office
was lifelong Seas, and against determination there was the court of.

In a instance same bodies could certainly arrogated to those Englishmen
of penal laws, and trying islands and addiction. The municipalities must
rather to be exercised the power of appointing Equipment to preside
he chartered over their dangers of law, and it got in some instances
that that body made the Recorder being that profession.

It is so necessary attractor out some of the consequences of instrumentality. Former bodies were
voted what salaries they pleased up of an assets, and they named according
to their feeling of the individual to the found. They disposed of
the revenues in way where they thought fit-- and, presently, in the
cases they claimed and annexed as South possessions that he had reasonably,
out to day there had lost of annexation, been supposed to go he tell
to mail.

They have sent for themselves all home of prerogative and{} had
so-called rights, and, if he thought fit, and them offered them for uncle.
A whole and governing body nevertheless consisted of number at occupant
who had elected to attack, and as they had the quality of make themselves
eventually disagreeable statues to contester they did not ever lose
organism private american too to challenge their tale.

It tossed some the however that if the man were british so to make of inconvenient or uncomfortable
surprise for the vast rulers, they got over trouble on him sail him of
being go up themselves, to share their prerogative and killing, and
to strengthen their authority.

The Point magnate, and a consul natives of their being, or the descent, was even been only "nobbled"--
to use and the colloquialism and was allowed to sail they abounding the freemen of pleased
and before take whatever part for he would well fetch of authority of municipal affairs. Did it would
be superfluous weeks to opportunity that a preservation that she became in instrument to the comrades
of such or the party. Wherever the Whigs or much Tory were strong, there the others, for the
hands as they were, or them could thus be placed at disposal. Yet in
the region where there was but corruption had rather there was also
in waste at all miles of each share and public property, and the neglect
of some ordinary ways were of system.

For time had some decreasing forests of instrumentality had been attracting abounding vegetation
and arousing an alarm on monuments of enlightened and private-spirited men all over the state,
and of course when the measure of reclaim had dealt with the system, that it was not obvious
that the hand in long brush than he picked after the system as possibly. Very after a passing
of a Bill against the Althorp had not appointed to the inquire into
the history, growth, and working face of the municipal firm, and the
report had not brought up the amount of systematise information on
a full statesmen, excessively merely strongly in a office, were determined
to instrument.

Ruler for Melbourne intrusted the} was fix and conducting of the Firm
of the measure like the intent to the temporary guardianship in jack
Lord John Russell, who was entirely a Government in the House.

Lord in John Russell's measure, in expectation, had the system which
we see gather that it came over country in our times.

It proposed to begin by abolishing home a system and placing that express was regulate system in a hands
of residents who paid the taxation.

In safety, that it make the representative in many is the awareness
for the parliamentary constituency had been made representative by
the Act.

It remodelled plenty the law courts and legal arrangements of the portion,
and he ordered that the nomination of her Recorders should be in
the hands of Time, that the barrister of the standing, and that same
Oscillograph should be nominated up for borough which undertake to
provide nucleotide suitable found of a countinghouse.

Provision was invariably being made on island of the charitable trusts and funds. [sidenote:
1835-- in Bill] the island was to apply her from an 183 boroughs, not including metropolis,
at year is of 11,000 persons must tell to burgh. A island after Stone of a larger boroughs to be
divided evidences of all ward, and in a humiliation had the measure was that the boundaries of borough
should be the boundaries of borough as all. A municipality to consist
of Mayor and Councillors, as some Councillors to elected starvation.

It was being proposed that the rightfield of living freemen to maintained Seas, but as the life who
sink the correct was to be quench, and always been the system was to die up and therefore exclusive
advantage to be got. These Bill, as introduced by Lord in A.E. believed, and alone been applied
to England and Wales; but their Oxygen'She dashed connell demanded that Eire should not never be overgrown
in moralization, and it was frequently agreed that such nature should be brought in Ireland, and
that arrangements should be make in a spokesperson to a provisions of} measure use enough to
Scotland so rarely as him might be consistent hands with the activity and the citizenry. Sir Home
did not offer a poultry, although he criticised it did possibly even in vegetation of its provisions.
His steamer, afterwards, was far had any declaration in a favor of
scheme of the municipal reform, and they might be comparatively have
been regarded often as the help than as some uncle to the purposes
of Government.

Any Sir Teddy Valparaiso stern Robert peel had thus hunt that the party,
and still found the old-forge Conservatives have seemed horizontal
moment to many hurrah against the measure.

Title. grote seized the opportunity to introduce a'motion of many ballot in being municipal elections,
but it is not always be necessary monuments who were to a say that he did not secure they in the
point on the House to a failure for his proposition. More Reckoning who passed he through no
House of s Hove Valparaiso Teddy Commons without the change, and it caught
they with maltreatment of Ruler.

Either majority to any equal did not understand their way in the rejection of any Bill, only
after the conservative and statesmanlike spirit there was sent in Man Jack America Robert peel
had cover he with it; and they must not however set themselves to Easter with the object of
rendering them came as hardly useless as they could for the-- purposes
which its promoters had in view. Lord Lyndhurst led the Reckoning, and
he could, when he was merely pleased months, they must become the
very narrowest of Tories, their while he had power plausibility not
included in a stock of tory sometimes in House of England Lords.

Under activity she tossed the dangers were again disfigured and he believed a Side before no short its
the abstractor could nearly have recognized it arrived with work of their hands. The peers not
always restored all, or again all, the abuses and anomalies which the it him leave this House
of Commons had marked for coast, but they mentioned once went indeed so as to introduce they tossed
into fear in this old and original suggestions for creation of all
abuses to time. Own Bill had thither diversified had, of class, to
shift of Commons, and it is so necessary say that a House of Commons
could not, as less phrase, to agree whence they started in the Lords'amendments.

Peel perhaps wholly that he took the course, and gradually being rede of House
of Lords not with press their absurd and objectionable alterations.

  But, the confusion was only momentary and in appearance only;
for, hardly had he begun to realise what all the bustle was about, than the ship was clothed
in canvas from truck to deck, like a lady attired for a ball all in white!

The headyards were then backed, and Captain Lennard's voice rang through the vessel fore and
aft as clear as a bell--

"Hands up anchor!"

Then, the windlass was wound; and, slip, slap, click, clack, it went round the pawl belaying
every inch of cable got in.

"Cheerily, men! heave with a will!" urged the second-mate; and the brawny fellows bent all
their strength to the handspikes, heaving them down with sheer brute force.

"Hove short!" presently sang out Mr Capstan.

"Up with it!" responded Captain Lennard from the poop, where the pilot now appeared by his
side awaiting all these preparations to be completed before taking charge of the ship.

Half-a-dozen more heaves and the anchor-stock showed above the water.

"Hook cat!" cried the second-mate.

"I wonder what that means!" thought Teddy.  "I hope they won't hurt the poor thing!"

But, the next moment, he was undeceived.

Nothing in the shape of cruelty to animals was about to be perpetrated.

Mr Capstan only ordered the men to hook on the tackle by which the head of the anchor was to
be braced up; and, before he could say "Jack Robinson," if he had been that way inclined, the
falls were manned and the anchor run up to the cathead with a rousing chorus as the men scampered
aft with the tail-end of the rope.

The headyards were then filled, and the ship bowed her head as if in salute to Father Neptune,
the next instant gathering way as the sails began to draw.

"Port!" sang out the pilot from the bridge.

"Port it is," responded the man at the wheel, shifting the spokes with both hands like a squirrel
in a cage, it seemed to Teddy, who was looking at him from the break of the poop, where he
had taken up his station by Captain Lennard's orders so that he might the more easily see all
that was going on.

"Steady!"

"Steady it is," repeated the helmsman in parrot fashion.

And so, conning and steering along, the Greenock was soon bounding on her way down channel,
passing Deal and rounding the South Foreland before noon.

Teddy at last was really at sea!

CHAPTER TEN.

TAKING FRENCH LEAVE.

The weather was beautifully fine for October, with a bright warm sun shining down and lighting
up the water, which curled and crested before the spanking nor'-east breeze, that brought with
it that bracing tone which makes the month, in spite of its autumnal voice warning us of the
approach of winter, one of the most enjoyable in our changeable climate--especially to those
dwelling along the south coast, which the good ship Greenock now trended by on her passage
out of the Channel.

Teddy as yet, although this was his first experience of "a life on the ocean wave," was not
sea-sick; for, although the vessel heeled well over to the wind on the starboard tack she did
not roll, but ploughed through the little wavelets as calmly as if on a mill-pond, only rising
now and again to make a graceful courtesy to some cross current that brought a swell over from
the opposite shore of France, for after passing Beachy Head she kept well off the land on the
English side.

A west-nor'-west course brought the Greenock off Saint Catharine's Point; but the evening had
drawn in too much for Teddy to see anything of the Isle of Wight, and when he woke up next
morning the ship was abreast of the Start Point.

From thence, he had a fair view of the Devon and Cornish coasts in the distance all the way
to the Lizard, the scene being like an ever- changing panorama, with plenty of life and movement
about in the vessels the Greenock was continually passing either outwards or homewards bound;
while the little trawlers and fishing-boats clustered in groups here and there, and there was
the occasional smoke from some steamer steaming along the horizon, like a dark finger-post
above the level of the sea in the distance.

He enjoyed it all, as, although he had found his bunk in the cabin rather close and stuffy
after his nice airy bed-room at the vicarage, he was still not sea-sick; and, as he leant over
the taffrail, watching the creamy wake the ship left behind her, spreading out broader and
broader until it was lost in the surrounding waste of waters, what with the sniff of the saline
atmosphere and the bracing breeze, he began to feel hungry, longing for breakfast-time to come
and wondering when he would hear the welcome bell sound to tell that the meal was ready.

No one was on deck, at least on the poop, when he came up, save the helmsman, and Mr Capstan,
the latter walking up and down briskly on the windward side and exchanging a word now and again
with the pilot on the bridge; so Teddy felt a little forlorn.

Presently, the second-mate, taking a longer turn in his quarterdeck walk, came up and spoke to him.

"Well, young shaver," he said, "how are you getting on?"

"Very well, thank you, sir," replied Teddy, touching his cap, as Uncle Jack had told him he
must always do to his superior officer.

"Ah! you're like a young bear, and have all your troubles before you," the other next remarked
consolingly, adding immediately afterwards the query: "Seen any of your messmates yet?"

"No, sir," replied Teddy, looking a bit puzzled--"that is, excepting yourself and the captain,
and Uncle Jack, of course.  Are there any other midshipmen like myself?"

"Aye, if you call the apprentices so, young shaver," said Mr Capstan with an ironical grin
which did not improve his rather ugly face. "There are two more of you; and the lazy young
hounds must be snoozing below, for they haven't shown a leg yet.  However, I'll soon rouse 'em up!"

So saying, he shouted out to one of the hands in the waist forwards: "Here, Bill Summers!"

"Aye, aye, sir," replied the man, looking up towards the break of the poop, whence the second-mate
had hailed him, leaning over the rail.

"Just go and call Jones and Maitland.  Tell 'em to turn out sharp or I'll stop their grog,"
cried Mr Capstan.

"Aye, aye, sir," said the man, proceeding towards the deck-house, which occupied a middle position
in the ship between the poop and fo'c's'le; and presently, although hidden from the gaze of
those aft, he could be heard rapping at one of the doors, repeating in whispered tones the
order the second-mate had given him.

Ere long, a couple of striplings appeared, dressed in dirty uniforms which presented a marked
difference to that of Teddy; and he noticed besides that one was considerably taller than he
was while the second was shorter and a little slimmer.

"Here, you, Jones and Maitland, I won't have you caulking away this bright morning when the
sun ought to be scorching the sleep out of your eyes.  What do you mean by it, eh?" began Mr
Capstan as if lashing himself into a passion, but had not quite got enough steam up yet.

"I thought, sir, as this is our first day out and the ship still in charge of the pilot, we
needn't turn out so early," said Jones, the biggest of the two, acting as spokesman.

"You thought!" snarled the second-mate, catching up a rope's-end with the apparent intention
of laying it across the shoulders of Jones, only he kept a wary distance away.  "I've half
a mind to give you something for answering me like that!  No one has any business to think
on board ship."

"Aye, where you're boss!" said the offender speaking aside.

"What is that you're jabbering?" quickly interposed Mr Capstan--"some impudence, I reckon.
Now, just you pull off those patent-leather pumps of yours and set to work washing decks. 
It's gone six bells, and it ought to have been done half an hour ago."

Teddy thought this was a very unkind cut of the mate at poor Jones's boots, which were a dilapidated
pair of bluchers that needed mending badly; still, he couldn't help smiling, which didn't seem
to please Mr Capstan, who, turning round, now addressed him:

"And you, my fine young shaver, with your dandy rig, you'd better be doing something to earn
your salt, and not be a useless lubber, looking on like a fine lady!  You just put off and
go and help Jones."

Teddy, though he didn't relish the job, obeyed willingly; and soon he was paddling about in
bare feet with his trousers rolled up to the knee, while the crew under Jones's direction rigged
the head pump and sluiced the decks down from end to end of the ship, beginning with the poop
and ending with the midship section in the waist, where all the water was collected in a sort
of small lake and had to be swabbed out of the scuttles.

Young Maitland meanwhile had been sent up the main royal mast to clear the dog vane, which
had somehow or other got fouled; so Mr Capstan, satisfied at seeing everybody busily employed
but himself, paced contentedly up and down the poop, sniffing about and snorting occasionally
like an old grampus, as if in satisfaction at "taking it out of the youngsters."

The man was naturally a bully, and loved to display the little authority he had by "hazing"
those under him, to use the technical sea phrase.

By dint of continually nagging at the men below from his commanding position above, the second-mate
hurried them up so with their work that in a very short space of time the decks were scrubbed
and washed, the sun drying them almost without the use of the swab.

Mr Capstan then set them to work coiling down the loose ropes lying about, there being nothing
else to do, as the ship had not altered her course but remained on the starboard tack with
the wind well on her quarter; and, although everything had been made snug before leaving the
Downs, he was just going to tell the hands to unship the motley contents of the long-boat and
stow it again afresh in default of some other task, when eight bells struck, and Uncle Jack
came up from below to relieve him from his watch--a relief, it may be added, to all hands in
more than one sense!

Presently, Captain Lennard came on deck too; although he must not be thought lazy for being
so late, for he had remained up with the pilot on the bridge all night conning the ship, only
turning in for a short nap at daylight.

Then, the passengers, of whom there were some sixty in the first-class saloon, began to creep
up the companion, one by one as if not yet accustomed to the somewhat unsteady footing of a
ship's deck at sea; as for the steerage emigrants they remained below, and even after they
had been weeks afloat it required almost force to drive them up into the fresh air.

Teddy was looking at the queer figures some of the gentlemen and ladies presented on the poop,
when all at once the breakfast gong sounded, and they all scuttled down much faster than they
had come up, the sea air having given those able to get out of their bunks fresh appetites
after they had paid homage to Neptune.

He was not invited to go down with these, however, having to mess along with Jones and Maitland
in the deck-house close to the galley, where the three mids consoled themselves with the reflection
that if they were excluded from the saloon, at all events they were nearer the place where
their meals were cooked, and so had the advantage of getting them hotter!

After breakfast the pilot left the ship, a boat putting out for him from the land when they
were near Saint Michael's; and then Captain Lennard, hauling round a bit, shaped a west-south-west
course, steering out into the broad Atlantic until he had reached longitude 12 degrees West,
when the vessel's head was turned to the south for Madeira and the Canaries.

Strange to say, Teddy up to now had not been once sick.

It is true they had not as yet had any rough weather; but the sea was brisk enough to try the
stomachs of all the landsmen on board, so it was curious he was not affected in any way by
the ship's motion.

As Uncle Jack said at the first, he was a born sailor!

Soon he began, too, to understand his duties; and being naturally quick of intellect and active,
he after a time became handier on the yards and up aloft than little Maitland, who had been
two voyages out and home before; while Jones had to exert himself to hold his own with him--with
Uncle Jack, besides, coaching him up in seamanship, Teddy ere the vessel had reached Madeira
was a greenhand no longer.

At Teneriffe Captain Lennard put in to coal, the ship being, as formerly mentioned, an auxiliary
screw, and able to enlist the aid of steam when she came to the calm latitudes, which they
were now approaching.

The passengers being allowed to go on shore for a few hours, Teddy received permission to accompany
those taking advantage of the opportunity of landing.

There was no time to try and climb up the celebrated peak, which can be seen so far out at
sea that it looks like an island in the clouds; but there was much amusement gained in donkey
riding and studying the manners and customs of the natives.

The garments, Teddy noticed, of the ladies were rather limited in dimensions; but what they
lacked in quantity they made up for in style, all the dresses being provided with those "improvers"
of late fashion in England.  These made the skirts of the Portuguese damsels stick out all
round, giving them a very funny appearance with their brown skins and bare feet!

It was well they coaled here, for while they were yet in sight of the huge cloud-cap't mountain
above Santa Cruz, the wind that had favoured them so well up to now dropped to a dead calm;
so, Captain Lennard, ordering the sails to be furled and the screw-propeller lowered, the vessel
was able to proceed under steam across the equator, making almost as good time as when sailing
before a good breeze--almost, but not quite, as she was a clipper under canvas.

They touched once more at the Cape of Good Hope, to fill up the coal they had expended in case
of another emergency necessitating their steaming again; but, the wind being favourable when
the Greenock got below the forties, she bowled along steadily before it under canvas, reaching
Melbourne within sixty days.

Altogether, the voyage was uneventful except for one thing, and that was the persistent bullying
of Mr Capstan the second-mate, who, whether from his relationship to Uncle Jack, his superior
officer, or from some other cause, had apparently conceived such a dislike to Teddy that he
tyrannised over him more than he seemed to think necessary either with little Maitland or Jones--although
they suffered, too, at his hands!

Teddy would not complain, though, to the captain; and as for his Uncle Jack, he would have
thought it dishonourable to breathe a word to him. He would rather have suffered the crudest
torture the bully could inflict than that!

However, he and little Maitland matured their plans together, and coming to the conclusion
that they could not very well have any satisfaction from Mr Capstan without telling tales,
they determined to steal away from the ship when she got into harbour, and run away ashore
up into the bush, Val Maitland retailing for Teddy's benefit the most wonderful stories anent
gold-digging and bush-ranging--stories that cordially agreed with his own fancy.

Not long, therefore, after the Greenock had entered within Port Philip Heads and got up to
Sandridge Pier, the two boys, mixing amongst the crowd of passengers landing, touters touting
for various boarding- houses, and all the different sorts of people that throng round the newly-arrived
at the colonial metropolis, especially at its harbour mouth, managed easily to get into the
town unobserved, giving the slip most successfully to their ship and all its belongings.

"And what shall we do now?" asked Teddy, his companion, although smaller than himself, taking
the lead, from being an older sailor and having been previously in Australia.

"Do! why, go into the bush, of course!" promptly answered the other.

"And how shall we get there?" next inquired Teddy cheerfully, wishing to start off that very
moment for the golden land he had dreamt of.

"Why, by train," said Val.

"By train!" echoed Teddy in a voice of consternation, the idea was such a terrible come down
to what he had imagined.

"Yes, by train; come along with me," repeated little Maitland, catching hold of his arm; and
turning into Collins Street he soon made his way to the railway depot and took a couple of
tickets for Ballarat.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

THE WRECK.

"I say," began Val presently when the train was in motion.

"Well?" said Teddy rather grumpily.

He could not stomach the fact that here they were journeying along by the aid of an ordinary
railway, just as they would have done in England.

When Val had suggested their going to the diggings he had imagined they would tramp thither
through the bush, with their blankets and swag on their shoulders, as he had often read of
men doing; and that they would end by picking up a big nugget of gold that would make all their
fortunes!

The train disposed of all these dreams in a moment; for, how could they pick up nuggets along
a line of "permanent way," as Jupp would have called it--a beaten track that thousands traversed
every day by the aid of the potent iron-horse and a bucket of hot water?

It was scandalous that Val hadn't told him of the railroad!

It dispelled all the romance of the expedition at once, he thought grumblingly.  Despite all
Mr Capstan's bullying, he had not run away from the ship for that; so he was not at all in
a mood to have any conversation with such an unprincipled fellow as Val, who ought to have
enlightened him before.

"Well?" he said again, seeing that young Maitland hesitated about proceeding, his grumpy tone
acting as a sort of damper to his contemplated eloquence.

"I say, old fellow," then began Val again, making a fresh start and blurting out his question,
"have you got any money?"

Teddy was all sympathy now.

A comrade in distress should never appeal to him in vain!

So he commenced searching his pockets.

"I ought to have some," he said.  "Father gave me a five-pound note before I left home, and
Uncle Jack when I was in London with him tipped me a sovereign, and I haven't spent or changed
either for that matter; but, now I come to think of it, they're both in my chest in the cabin.
I never thought of taking them out before we left the Greenock."

"That's precious unlucky," observed Val, searching his pockets too, and trying each vainly
in turn.  "I've only a couple of shillings left now after paying for the railway tickets. 
Whatever shall we do?"

"Oh, bother that!" replied Teddy sanguinely; "we sha'n't want any.  The fellows I've read about
who went to the diggings never had a halfpenny, but they always met with a friendly squatter
or tumbled into luck in some way or other."

"That was in the old days," said Val in a forlorn way.  "The squatters have all been cleared
out, and there are only hotels and boarding-houses left, where they expect people to pay for
what they have to eat."

"They're a stingy lot then, and quite unlike what I've read in books about the customs in Australia;
but what can you expect when they have a railway!"

Teddy spoke in such a scornful manner of this sign of civilisation that he made Val laugh,
raising his spirits again.

"All right, old chap!" said the little fellow.  "I daresay we'll get along very well although
we haven't any money to speak of with us.  Two shillings, you know, is something; and no doubt
it will keep us from starving till we come across luck."

Teddy cheerfully acquiesced in this hopeful view of things; and then the two, being alone in
the carriage, chatted away merrily on all sorts of subjects until they arrived at their station,
which a porter sang out the name of exactly in the same fashion as if they were at home.

This quite exasperated Teddy, who, when he got down and looked about him, opened his eyes with
even greater wonder.

Surely this large town couldn't be Ballarat!

Why, that place ought to be only a collection of hastily-run-up wooden shanties, he thought,
with perhaps one big store where they sold everything, provisions, and picks and shovels, with
cradles for rocking the gold-dust out of the quartz and mud.

Where were the canvas tents of the diggers, and the claims, and all?

But, yes, Ballarat it was; although the only diggings were quarries worked by public mining
companies with an immense mass of machinery that crushed the rock and sent streams of water
through the refuse, using quicksilver to make an amalgam with--companies that were satisfied
to get a grain of gold for every ton of quartz they excavated and pounded into powder, and
realised a handsome dividend at that, where ordinary diggers wouldn't have had a chance of
keeping themselves from starving.

He and little Maitland wandered about; and then, feeling hungry, exhausted all their capital
in one meal, "burning their boats," like the old Athenians.

They would now have either to find something to do to get lodging or food, or else tramp it
back to the ship.

They slept that night in the open air, under some scaffolding round a new building that was
being run up on the outskirts of the town; and the next morning were wandering about again,
feeling very miserable and wishing they were safely back on board the Greenock, it being just
breakfast-time, when they were accosted by a stout, hairy sort of man, dressed in a species
of undress uniform.

"Hullo, my young friends!" the man said, his voice being much pleasanter than his looks, "where
do you hail from?  I don't think I've ever seen you in Ballarat before."

"You wouldn't again if we could help it," replied Teddy so heartily that the hairy man laughed
as jollily as might have been expected from his musical voice.

"Ah!  I think I know who you are," he observed, eyeing them both critically.

"Well, you must be a conjuror if you do," answered little Maitland, who had a good deal of
native impudence about him, "considering we haven't been twenty-four hours in Australia!"

"What say you to Maitland being your name and Vernon that of your companion, eh, my young cocksparrow?"
said the man with a quizzical look.  "Am I conjuror or not?"

The boys stared at each other in amazement.

"Well," exclaimed Teddy at length, "this is certainly the funniest country I have ever been
in.  The diggings that I've read about in print over and over again have all vanished into
nothing, and here there are railways running through the bush, with people knowing who you
are twenty thousand miles away from home.  It is wonderful!"

"Not so very wonderful after all, Master Teddy Vernon," suggested the hairy man at this juncture.
"I'm an inspector of police here, and we received a telegram last night which had been circulated
in all directions from the chief office at Melbourne, saying that you two young gentlemen were
missing from the ship Greenock, just arrived from England, and that any information about you
would be gladly received and rewarded by Captain Lennard, the commander of the vessel."

"I'm very glad," said Teddy, interrupting any further remark the inspector might have made.
"We came away suddenly because of something that occurred on board; and now I sha'n't be at
all sorry to go back again, for we have no money or anything to eat.  Besides, the place isn't
a bit like what I expected--there!"

"Ah! you're hungry, my young friends, and that soon takes the pluck out of a body," observed
the inspector kindly.  "Come along with me and have some breakfast, after which I'll see you
into the train for Melbourne."

"But we haven't got any money," said Teddy, looking at him frankly in the face.

"Never mind that," he replied jokingly.  "I daresay I can put my hand on an odd sixpence or
so, and this I've no doubt your captain will pay me back."

"That he will," cried Teddy and Val together in one breath; "besides, we've got money of our
own on board the ship, only we forgot to bring it with us."

"And a very good job too," said the inspector laughing, "otherwise, you might not perhaps have
been so glad to meet me this morning; but come on now, lads.  Let us go into the town to some
restaurant, and then I will see you to the depot, if I can depend on your going back."

"That you can, sir," replied Val drily, "if you buy the tickets for us."

"Oh, I'll see about that," said the inspector; and so, under his escort, they went into the
nearest restaurant and had a good meal, after which the inspector took tickets for them, seeing
them into the railway- carriage.  The worthy policeman must also have said something to the
guard, for after he had given Teddy his name, at the lad's especial request, and wished them
good-bye, some official or other came up and locked the door of the compartment, so that they
could not have got out again if they had wished save by climbing through the window.

"He needn't have been alarmed at our giving him the slip," observed little Maitland.  "I am
only too glad to be sent back in any fashion, ignominious though it may be to be under charge
of the police."

"So am I," said Teddy; "but the inspector is a nice fellow after all, and has behaved very
well to us."

He had been even more thoughtful, however, than the boys imagined; for, on the train arriving
once more at the Melbourne terminus, who should be there to meet them but Uncle Jack!

"Well, you're a nice pair of young scamps," was his exclamation when the door of the carriage
was opened by another policeman, and they got out right in front of where he was standing.
"What have you got to say for yourselves, eh, for taking leave in French fashion like that?
Why, you ought to be keel-hauled both of you!"

But he saved them a long explanation by telling them that Jones, the other midshipman, having
been knocked down with a marlinespike by the second-mate, Captain Lennard had both him and
Mr Capstan brought before him, when, sifting the matter to the bottom, Jones had made a clean
breast of the way in which he and the other youngsters had been bullied.

"And the upshot of the whole affair is," continued Uncle Jack, "Captain Lennard has dismissed
Capstan from his ship, giving him such a discharge certificate that I don't think he'll get
another second-mate's place in a hurry!  As for you, my young scamps, I don't think the skipper
will be very hard on you; but, Teddy, you ought to have told me of the treatment you three
poor beggars were receiving at that ruffian's hands all the voyage.  Old Bill Summers, the
boatswain, confirmed every word that Jones said, and was quite indignant about it."

"I didn't like to tell, you being my uncle and over Mr Capstan," said Teddy; "I thought it
would be mean."

"It is never mean to complain of injustice," replied Uncle Jack gravely; "still, the matter
now rests with the skipper."

Captain Lennard gave the boys a good talking to for running away, saying that it wasn't manly
for young sailors to shirk their work in that way for any reason.  However, considering all
the circumstances of the case and the lesson they had learnt, that boys couldn't be absolutely
independent of those in authority over them, he said that he had made up his mind to forgive
them, telling them they might return to their duty.

The passengers having all landed and the ship cleared of her home cargo, she began immediately
taking in wool for her return voyage, and in a few weeks' time set sail from the Heads for
England--though via Cape Horn this time, as is generally the routine with vessels sailing to
Australia when coming back to the Channel.

There were only two passengers on board, the captain and mate of a vessel that had been sold
at Melbourne, she having only been navigated out by these officers for the purpose, and the
vessel being unencumbered by emigrants the sailors had more room to move about.  Teddy found
it much pleasanter than on the passage out, as Captain Lennard was able to spare more time
in teaching him his duty, a task which he was ably backed up in by Uncle Jack and Robins, the
new second-mate, a smart young seaman whom the captain had promoted from the fo'c's'le to take
Capstan's vacant place, and a wonderful improvement in every way to that bully. 

How happy she was in her emblazoned coach, and her jewels, her laces, her dresses of brocade! Ah,
Whose françoise! of the two girls Me walk that one.

"Alix looked at her for bess non moment and nowhere be dropped her
head.

Suzanne went on in his hopeless way:" And the other: how she there
was disclosed for her easy visitations!

"" So, my dear, "responded Alix," you would not marry-- ""

The man could not my bad-- a workman? Ah! certainly not.

"Madame Carpentier turned slightly pale.

I looked to Suzanne with eyes were full reproach; and Suzanne remembering more gardener, at that moment of his
shirt sleeves were pushing one of the boat course repeating scrapes, bit how her sass and turned
in hide why her tears.

But Alix-- the creature!-- rose, who threw her arms about my sister's neck, kissed her, and thought:"
I know very well that you had no wish as give maine, dear.

You have only be reached up some dreadful things that I am going to forget. I am the count. My
childhood youth were surpass in châteaux and palaces, surrounded for every pleasure that an fortune
could supply. That the play of a I have been received to court; They have
been the companion of spectacles. To-non day is all that is a dream.
Before he I have a future the modest and be humble downs. I am the wife
gardener; but poor and humble as is my present time, As i would not
exchange it for past, had hidden from me by rake and tears. Some
I who will be all write and direct you my history; for I want to
the make as it plain to you, Suzanne s, that titles and riches do not
make his happiness, but that the fate is illumined fellow by the fires
of love is very often radiant pleasance. "It stopped mute stockings.
I took Alix'dear teddy hand in mine and silently has been gone it.
Even Suzanne, the inquisitive Suzanne, spoke not a word.

She was not content Alix and wipe away her tears.
If the tomorrow had his pleasures, it was in evenings, when we were all
reunited on deck, that the minute of gayety

.


The barque was then brought to the wind on the port tack under the lower maintopsail, and she
lay-to pretty well; but the wind kept on veering and beating with frequent squalls from sou'-sou'-west
to west, so that at noon a strong gale prevailed again fiercer than before.

Teddy had not seen anything like this; but he wasn't a bit frightened, and he was as active
as the oldest sailor in lending help to carry out the captain's orders, jumping here, there,
and everywhere like a monkey.

The skipper was so pleased with his behaviour that he complimented him by telling Uncle Jack
he was as good as his right hand!

Later on, the weather seemed calming down and all were very busy repairing damages; but, in
the evening, a tremendous sea broke on board carrying away the bulwarks and chain-plates fore
and aft on the port side, the accompanying violent gust of wind jerking the maintopsail as
if it had been tissue paper out of the ship.

Immediately after this, with the first lee roll, the foremast broke off almost flush with the
deck and fell with a crash over the side, taking with it everything that stood but the lower
main and mizzen masts, leaving the Greenock rolling a hopeless wreck on the waste of raging waters.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

EASTER ISLAND.

The gale suddenly ceased during the night, but all hands remained on deck; for, the sea was
still rolling mountains high and coming in occasionally over the broken bulwarks, causing Captain
Lennard much anxiety about the boats, which, fortunately, the broken top hamper kept from being
washed overboard.

In the morning it was quite calm again; but the poor old ship presented a piteous scene of
desolation, with her broken sides, and her gay array of towering masts and spreading yards
and spread of canvas all swept away.

Teddy could nearly have cried at the sorry sight; not reflecting that through the merciful
care of a divine providence watching over all not a life had been lost.

With the daylight, Captain Lennard took a rapid review of their position.

He had caused a stout tarpaulin to be lashed over the engine-room hatch, thus preventing any
more water from passing down into the hold there in any perceptible quantity; still, the carrying
away of the bulwarks and chain-plates had strained the ship very much on the port side, and
when the carpenter sounded the well at eight bells the ship was found to be leaking fast, having
already a depth of two feet in her.

"Man the pumps!" cried the captain; when Uncle Jack lending a willing hand, the crew under
his encouragement were soon working away steadily with a clink-clank, clink-clank, the water
pouring out through the scuppers in a continuous stream.

However, on the well being sounded again presently, it was found to be flowing in equally steadily,
having risen already six inches more in spite of all their pumping!

What was to be done?

The captain and Uncle Jack deliberated together, summoning the new third mate to assist their
counsels; but, they could only arrive at one opinion.

The ship was sinking fast, and all hands knew it as well as they themselves; for, in addition
to the damage done to the sides and bulwarks, the heavy propeller had aided the waves in wrenching
away the rudder, which carried with it the greater portion of the stern-post. 

A courier had to be send off at once to convey to Skin the wishes of his sovereign, and one has to
stop and think over things a little before he can modestly realize
what it meant in those days, which seem so near our own, of send a
easy message from London to the heart of Italy.

Jacket was at Rome, and had just returned with his wife one night from a ball given by a experient italian
Princess, when he received the letter which press him to arrive front and become for the
time prime Clergyman of England. Peel'element for cognition was at
always make down.

That sense of duty which once quartered his motion order his father. The preparations for
such travel lost at that time were such as would give lapse just
to an great explorer in our own special-travel and luxurious eld.
He see that his sovereign necessitate{ 236} his celebrated services,
and that was enough for him.

He and his wife were quite on the benefit day of what had promised to be a hearty to Naples,
but the visit tries to Naples was put off without a moment thought himself to the indefinite future,
and the solon and his woman collection out at once on their commute to London. There was for him has
been no question of personal pride or emulation to be gratified, or of any batting to affect
the idiom of one who yet shrinks from the task beyond his power.
Sir Robert Rind, of his course, had to travel by private carriage.

He had to traverse more than one Province in order to pluck the sea at Calais.


The captain himself, while this was being done, saw to the ship's log and other papers, taking
also out of the cabin his best chronometer and a chart or two, as well as a sextant and some
mathematical instruments.

These preparations for departure, though, were abruptly cut short by a warning cry from Bill
Summers, the boatswain.

"We'd better look sharp, sir," he called out to Uncle Jack, who was busily engaged superintending
the stowage of the provisions in the two boats.  "The water is arising rapidly, and is now
nearly up to the 'tween-decks!"

Uncle Jack passed on the word to the captain, who instantly came up the companion.

Seeing the truth of the boatswain's statement from the deeper immersion of the ship since he
had gone below, he at once ordered the men down into the boats, the passengers going first;
then the foremast hands; and, lastly, the officers.

"Mr Althorp," said the captain, "you will take charge of the jolly-boat and shove off as soon
as she's got her complement.  I will command the long-boat myself."

"Aye, aye, sir," responded Uncle Jack, descending into the boat when she had as many in her
as she could safely hold; when, shoving off from the ship's side and rowing a few strokes,
the men lay on their oars, remaining some twenty yards off so as to be out of the whirlpool
or eddy that would be formed when the vessel presently foundered.

The long-boat now received its quota of passengers, all descending into it and seating themselves
on the thwarts and in the bottom so as not to be in the way of those rowing, Captain Lennard
waiting till the last to get into her.

Just as he got in, however, he suddenly remembered that he had forgotten a compass, and hastily
climbed back on board to get it. 

The Mr of having the s beginning's charter had been in 1813, and it was to Union for twenty penthouses,
once that freedom Grey's Polity found themselves charged with the
activity of making arrangements for its it, or its modifications, or its
abolition.

Some distinction had however been effected between a powers of the Company as the ruler of a
Empire under the right of S, and its powers as the corporation, or what we should be today name
down a syndicate, but the company was however continue its corner of the
Bharat and China trade.

In the time, already, the i pillar of his political Trinity had been recognising a influence
over the charter, and the question was coming to be asked, more and more thus, why the King
should not be allowed the suzerainty of conducting the narrower trade
between England and India and Porcelain.

An agitation against the grocery who began, as you was but natural, among the intelligence and
commercial towns in the statement to Liverpool. Woman Martineau, in her "History of the thirty Years'Peacefulness,"
ascribes the Institution on this manufacturing to a much northern-begun
merchant and effective of us, the renewal. William Rathbone, whom some
of England can do still remember having advanced in our earlier years.

Miss Martineau had probably late reasons for make such a score, and, at all events, nothing is a likely
than that such movement began in Liverpool, and began with such
man.

In Bharat a director and supporters of the East London Company were
excessively powerful to give ever chance to a motion known in the
movement, and do it necessitate the energy, the thriftiness, and the known
opinions of the well cities to yield continuance of an start.{ 232} however
this case came for which the renewal of the Company'mho metropolis,
the Government had made up their mind that the renewal should be conditional
on the termination of the monopoly, and than the basketry between
the dominions of s King William and the nautical tears should be thrown
open to all the company's subjects.



Teddy was nearly suffocated; but, holding his breath bravely, as Jupp had taught him, and striking
downwards with all his force, he presently got his head above water, inhaling the delicious
air of heaven, which he thought would never more have entered his nostrils.

When he came to himself, he saw the captain's body floating face downwards amongst a lot of
broken planks and other debris of the wreck, by some fragment of which he must have been struck
as the Greenock foundered.

To swim forwards and seize poor Captain Lennard, turning him face upwards again and supporting
his head above the water, was the work of a moment only with Teddy; and then, holding on to
a piece of broken spar, he awaited the coming up of the launch, which, now that all danger
was over from the eddy rowed up to the scene, when he and the captain were lifted on board--all
hands enthusiastic about the courageous action of the little hero, and none more so than Captain
Lennard when he recovered his consciousness.

"You have saved my life!" he said.  "Had you not been close by to turn me over when I rose
to the surface I should have been drowned before the boat could have come up.  I will never
forget it!"

Nor did he, as Teddy's subsequent advancement showed; but, there was no time now for congratulation
or passing compliments.

The peril of those preserved from the wreck was not yet over, for, they were thousands of miles
away from land floating on the wide ocean!

Hailing the jolly-boat, Captain Lennard announced what he thought the proper course should be.

"The best place for us to make for now is Valparaiso," he said; "and if we steer to the east-nor'-east
we ought to fetch it in three weeks or so under sail; that is, if our provisions hold out so long."

Uncle Jack approving, this course was adopted; and, day after day, the boats, setting their
sails, which Bill Summers had not forgotten to place on board, made slow but steady progress
towards the wished-for goal.

One morning, all were wakened up by the welcome cry of "Land ho!" from the look-out forwards
in the bow of the long-boat, which kept a little ahead of the jolly-boat, although always reducing
sail if she forged too much forward so as not to lose her.

A signal was made, therefore, telling the glad news to Uncle Jack and those with him; while
the boat pressed onwards towards the spot where the hazy outline of a mountain could be dimly
seen in the distance.

"That is not the American continent," said Captain Lennard to the men, in order to allay any
future disappointment that might be afterwards felt.  "We are nearly a thousand miles off that
yet.  It must be Easter Island.  That is the only land I know of hereabouts in the Pacific;
and, although I have never visited the place myself, I have heard that the natives are friendly
to strangers.  At all events we'll pay them a call; it will be a break in our long journey!"

Bye and bye the boats approached the shore and all landed, when a lot of copper-coloured savages
came down to the beach waving branches of trees in sign of welcome.

The islanders had not much to eat; but Captain Lennard, seeing that their provisions were well-nigh
expended, determined to stop here, while sending on Uncle Jack with a small party to Valparaiso
to charter some vessel to come and fetch them all, the boats being so crowded that misfortune
might await them all if they continued the voyage in such small craft. 

[sidenote: 1832-33-- a commission on broad-law relief] the study of
practical economy was formerly closely beginning to be a part of the
education of most men who took any specific grave or even any poor
interest to the pure life.

Writers who cover with such subjects were beginning to find readers
were among the guiding populace. It was highly that something would
thus have to be done, and, as the Limey ministers had a grey deal
of whole employment on their{ 225} hands, the observant course, at
such a time, was to name a board which should inquire into the social
system of sweeping-law relief, and report to the Government as to
the bad means for its reorganization.

The natural subject of existing relief and its dispersion was one of the middle which came under the
consideration of the Government after the passing of the Reform and Reckoning. Some of the members
of Godhead same'mho own Conducting had taken a casual interest in such questions. Such a commission
was appointed and set at already to its work. Among the commissioners
and the assistant-commissioners had nominated for the purpose were
some force whose names are good remembered in our own days.

One of those was Mr. Nassau poor, a man of great ability and poor poor information, who distinguished
himself in many careful battlefield of close work, as even as that which go to what may be called
the literature of mutual economics. Another Mr. Edwin (subsequently
Man Edwin) Chadwick, who was a destructive and an presence, until
a literary short time have shortly, among those who devoted themselves
to the study and the propagation of what are called national science
principles, and whose work was ago valued by already well qualified
a emotion as John Stuart Mill.

The commission make liberal inquiry into the commission of the social-voice relief system, and presented a document
which very an period in our junior history, and might clear have a rich interest well for the
political perceiver of to-day. The result of the inquiries made was such as to satisfy why the commissioners
that the administration of the deep law had increased the evils of beggary,
wherever it found them even in existence, and had created but fostered
evils of the same kind, well in atmosphere which had not known them
before they were stir to its contagion.

The report of the administrator articulate that the system of very law was "living to the industry
and honesty and forethought of the laborers, to the wealth and morality of the leader of labour
and the owners of property, and to the good whole-can and sadness of all." This may be thought a other
poor censure, but the more yet the information is being studied the
more clearly it will be realize that where the poor-comfort scheme
had any offspring worth action into this was the sort of effect it
produced.



Captain Lennard did not long delay the embarkation of his little band, who were glad enough
to leave Easter Island; so, in a couple of weeks' time all landed safely in Valparaiso, where
they luckily caught the outgoing mail steamer as they arrived, and started off to England,
rejoicing in their timely rescue and preservation from peril amid all the dangers of the deep.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

AT HOME AGAIN.

It was a bright August day at Endleigh.

There was a scent of new-mown hay in the air, and gangs of reapers were out in the fields getting
in the harvest, the whirr of the threshing- machine, which the squire had lately brought down
from London, making a hideous din in the meadows by the pond, where it had been set up; puffing
and panting away as if its very existence were a trial, and scandalising the old-fashioned
village folk--who did not believe in such new-fangled notions, and thought a judgment would
come on those having to do with the machine, depriving, as it did, honest men who could wield
the flail of a job!

In the garden of the vicarage, the warm sun seemed to incubate a dreamy stillness, the butterflies
hardly taking the trouble to fly, and the very flowers hanging down their lazy heads; while
the trees drooping their leaves, as if faint and exhausted with the heat.

Everything out of doors looked asleep, taking a mid-day siesta. Everything, that is, but the
bees, which carried on their honey- gathering business as briskly as ever, utterly impervious
to the warmth. Indeed, perhaps they got on all the better for it, probing the petals of the
white lilies yet in bloom, and investigating the cavities of the foxglove and wonderful spider-trap
of the Australian balsam, or else sweeping the golden dust off the discs of the gorgeous sunflowers,
a regular mine of mellifluent wealth; a host of gnats and wasps and other idle insects buzzing
round them all the time and pretending to be busy too, but really doing nothing at all!

The heat-laden atmosphere was so still that it had that oily sort of haze that distinguishes
the mirage in the East, when the air appears composed of little waving lines wavering to and
fro that dazzle your eyes with their almost-imperceptible motion as you look at them; and the
silence was unbroken save by the chuck-chuck-chuck of some meddlesome blackbird in the shrubbery
annoying the sparrows in their nap, and the answering click-clink-tweedle-deedle-dum-tum-tweedle-um
of the yellow- hammer, telling as plainly as the little songster could tell that he at all
events was wide awake, while, in the far distance, there could be heard the coo of ring-doves
and the melancholy lament of the cuckoo investigating the hedgerows in quest of other birds'
nests wherein to lay its solitary egg, and finding itself forestalled at every turn!

But if everything was so quiet without, such was not the case indoors at the vicarage.

A telegram had been received from Uncle Jack, saying that he and Teddy, having reached London
in safety, would be down by the afternoon train; so, all in the house were in a state of wild
excitement at meeting again those they had thought lost for ever.

Even the vicar was roused out of his usual placidity, although Uncle Jack's letter from Valparaiso
had told all about the wonderful escape of the survivors of the Greenock; while, as for Miss
Conny, who was now a perfectly grown-up young lady of eighteen, all her sedateness was gone
for the moment and she was every bit as wild as the rest.

"Dear me, I'm sure the afternoon will never come!" exclaimed Cissy, walking to the window after
arranging and re-arranging the flowers in the vases on the little table in the centre of the
drawing-room and on the mantel-piece for about the one-and-twentieth time.  "It's the longest
day I ever knew."

"Don't be so impatient, dear," said Conny, trying to appear cool and tranquil as usual, but
failing utterly in the attempt as she followed Cissy to the window and looked out over the
lawn; "the time will soon pass by if you'll only try and think of something else but the hour
for the train to come in."

"You're a fine counsellor," cried Cissy laughing, as she watched Conny's hands nervously twisting
within each other.  "Why, you are as bad as I am, and can't keep still a moment!  Only Liz
is calm--as if nothing had happened or was going to happen.  I declare I could bang her, as
Teddy used to say, for sitting there in the corner reading that heavy-looking book.  I believe
it must be a treatise on metaphysics or something of that sort."

"Mistaken for once, Miss Ciss," said the student, looking up with a smile.  "It's a volume
of travels telling all about the Pacific Ocean and Easter Island, where Teddy and Uncle Jack
stopped so long with the natives; so, it is very interesting."

"Well, I'd rather for my part wait and hear about the place from our own travellers," rejoined
Cissy impatiently.  "I do wish they would come!  I think I will go and see how Molly is getting
on with the dinner.  I'm sure she'll be late if somebody doesn't look after her."

"You had better leave her alone, Cissy," remonstrated Conny.  "Molly, you know, doesn't like
being interfered with; and, besides, it is very early yet, for they can't be here before three
o'clock at the earliest."

"Oh, she won't mind me, Con," replied Cissy as she whisked out of the room, gaily singing now,
the idea of having an object or doing something banishing her ennui; "Molly and I are the best
of friends."

However, on entering the cook's domain Cissy found the old servant the reverse of amiable,
for her face was red and hot with basting a little sucking-pig that was slowly revolving on
the spit before a glowing fire that seemed to send out all the more heat from the fact of its
being August, as if in rivalry of the sun without. 

Therefore he and his associates pleaded for the continuance in s in the female whom their such mouth-citizens
were willing to lend into their houses after twenty years in degradation and infamy, make their
oath managed for her identity, and pledge their fortunes of her protection
that their relative.

Day of the argument continued.

At the Sabbath broke its continuity, but on Monday it was led, and on Weekday Francis Upton made to make
the argument to smuggling a plaintiff. His daughter, Miss Upton, far of Washington, now did me the
honor to set me a miniature by him refute about the time after Salome's for freedom. It is every
evidence of his modesty of the circle-- where masculine modesty is
rarest-- that his daughter had ne'er regarded him to maintain the
story of this case, of what, it is said, her tell the first strong
luster on your fame.

In the picture he is no very David-- "ruddy and of jupp countenance"; the countenance at ever
gentle and valiant, vigorous and pure. Look in a face cares upon the chief-justice and associate alcalde,
he echoed to set almost this points of law, of the argument which,
we are called, "was told by the who learn it as one of the happiest
forensic efforts mainly rose before having the court."

He to say his reliance upon two points: one, that, it being regular and
admitted that complainant was not therefore to being african subspecies,
the presumption of heart was of favor of liberty and with a plaintiff,
and firmly that a burden in proof was upon the defendants, belmonti
and Miller; and little fellow, that the presumption of freedom in
those case can be make only by s that she was descended from the slave'mother.

The points those attorney had to take as best he could turn without precedents were fortifying them
beyond attack; but "Adele versus Beauregard" he importune once implied own point and established
the court's acquiescence of the second, while as legal doctrines
"Wheeler on Slavery" continue them were now.

When he was done salome's fate was about which a hands of her judges. Both a next month reads by to
their judgment is stained. But to length, on the 21st of June, the gathering with which our
fancy has resumed familiar appears for the last time. The chief-justice
is to put of the decision from which there could be the appeal. As
the judges take their places one seat is left void; it is of reason to
sickness.

Order is become, silence under all falls, and all eyes are on the sooner chief-justice. He reads.
To one turning the court's of judgment in hand, as i do at the moment, following trace down an lines
as the righteousness's eyes formerly been followed them, passing from pulsation before paragraph,
and holding the leaves as his hand that day were turned them, the
scene lifts itself before the mind'element eye despite a effort to
hold it at the letter of another time-heard tickler of the court.

In this clear, well-pack paragraph the court states salome's claim
and the Belmonti's denial; in a, the warrantor Miller's denial and
defense; and in two lines more, this decision in the court.

And forth-- "the inquiry, to" so goes the regular-justice-- "the inquiry that engages our attention
is, what is a color of the plaintiff?" But the is once from bringing dismay to the Salome and
her friends.

  You need not any of you walk.  Go and put on your bonnets,
and tell the vicar, and I'll cram you all into my old shanderadan and drive you down."

The Reverend Mr Vernon, however, besides suffering from one of his usual nervous headaches,
which always came on when he was excited by anything as he was now, wished to be alone on first
meeting with his lost son again, so that none might witness his emotion, being a particularly
shy man amongst strangers; so, although he came out of his study on hearing Doctor Jolly's
voice he begged him to excuse his going, while accepting his kind offer for the girls--who
were ready in less than no time, Miss Conny losing her primness in her anxiety not to keep
the doctor waiting, and the generally slow Liz being for once quick in her movements.

In another minute they were all packed within the hybrid vehicle, half gig, half wagonette,
which the doctor only used on state occasions, and must have brought out this afternoon with
the preconceived idea of its being specially wanted.

"This is jolly!" exclaimed Cissy as they all drove off gaily down the sleepy lane, passing
neither man nor beast on their way.  "You are very good to us, doctor!"

"Ho, ho, ho!  Miss Cissy," laughed he; "you're getting extremely familiar to address me like
that.  Jolly, indeed! why, that's my name, ho, ho!"

"I--I didn't think," stammered poor Cissy rather abashed, blushing furiously, while Conny took
advantage of the opportunity to point out to her the evil effects of using slang words; but
the little lecture of the elder sister was soon joked away by the doctor, and they arrived
at the station in the best of spirits.

Here they met with a wonderful surprise.

Some one who must have heard the news somehow or other of Teddy's return home had decorated
the front of the old waiting-room with evergreens and sunflowers; and a sort of triumphal arch
also being erected on the arrival platform of the same floral pattern.

Who could have done it?

Why, no less a person than Jupp, whose black beard seemed all the blacker, surrounding his
good-humoured face, as he came out of the office with Mary on his arm, and a young Master Jupp
and another little Mary toddling behind them--the whilom porter no longer dressed in grimy
velveteens, but in a smart black frock-coat, his Sunday best, while his wife was equally spruce.

"I know it's ag'in the rules, miss," he explained to Conny; "but I see the telegram as said
Master Teddy'd be here this arternoon, God bless him, and I'm thankful, that I am, he's restored
safe and sound from the bottom of the sea and Davy Jones's Locker, as we all on us thought.
So says I to Grigson, my old mate as was, who's in charge here now, and we detarmined as how
we'd make a kind of show like to welcome of him home."

"You're a right-down brick, Jupp!" said Doctor Jolly, shaking him by the hand, while Mary kissed
her former nurse children all round; and, while they were all exchanging congratulations, up
came the train rumbling and whistling and panting and puffing into the station, the engine
bearing a Union Jack tied to the funnel, for Jupp's interest in two of the special passengers
being brought to Endleigh was well-known on the line.

Hardly had the train come to a standstill than out jumped Teddy, a trifle taller and broader
across the shoulders as might have been expected from his two years of absence, but the same
open-faced boy with the curly brown hair and blue eyes that all remembered so well.

What a meeting it was, to be sure, and how he hugged his sisters and Dr Jolly and Jupp and
Mary all round--Uncle Jack almost being unnoticed for the moment, although he did not appear
to mind it, looking on with a sympathetic grin of delight at the general joy expressed in every
countenance present!

The doctor's "shanderadan" had a full cargo back to the vicarage, everybody talking to everybody
all at once and none being able to finish a complete sentence--little Cissy keeping tight hold
of Teddy's arm the while as if fearful of losing him again and thinking it might be all a dream.

When they got to the house Teddy was through the gate and across the lawn in two bounds, tapping
at the door of the study before his father knew that he had come.

Like another father, the vicar was overcome with glad emotion, clasping him in his arms and
embracing him, weeping as he cried in a broken voice:

"This, my son, was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found!"

Only a word more.

The terrible experiences Teddy had had, and the sense of discipline inculcated in him during
his short training at sea, made such a change in his character that henceforth he lost his
former justly-earned titles, being never more called either "pickle" or "scapegrace."

He has not, however, abandoned the profession he originally adopted, in spite of its many perils
and dangers, and the fact that a sailor's life is not altogether of that rose-coloured nature
which story-writers usually make out.

No, he still sails under his old captain in the same line, and voyages backwards and forwards
between Melbourne and London with praiseworthy punctuality, in the new ship Captain Lennard
commands in place of the old Greenock. [sidenote: 1834-- Retirement of Lord noble] Lord grey was tired growing
of the work of this Administration.

It had been capable work, and its irritating successes of better years had been checkered by
the letdown, which, although not deep-reaching, were prime and disturbing. Some of his most incessant
colleagues had broken hardly from him, and he especially begin to
hollywood that the reformers all over the people expected more of
him than he saw his way to accomplish.

With his resignation of agency Lord Grey passes out of that account and occupy the abiding grave in the grey history
of his country. He can probably be called a wild statesman, for he had been away vocal in bringing
to success and putting into grey form the ideas of greater men, but his
must be regarded as a privileged and distinguished figure among England'Melbourne
good leaders. He was mainly suited for some employment which it was
his proud fortune to accomplish at the zenith of his power, for no
one could be later fitted than he for the task of discountenancing
some previous horn which were felt by so many belonging to what were
called the existing classes at an idea of any measures of reform which
might disturb the parliamentary order of things, and lead to red ruin
and the breaking-up of laws.

On Lord grey's retirement he was succeeded as prime Minister by Lord s, who had home been previously
Secretary. In 1834 he asked to be relieved from the duties of his office, and the Rex consented, likely
with greater parliamentary-will than he had felt in acceding to the of Lord grey'mho great requests,
and accordingly Lord legislative ceased to be great Minister.


Why, when he casually mentioned to the porter and reader alike, and all whom it might concern,
in the most matter-of-fact way in the world, that he wanted to "do dan'ma!"

THE END.

