Ambrose ran out.  The flame was lessening, but he could see the dark bindings, and the blackened
pages of the books he loved so well.  A corner of a page of Saint Augustine's Confessions was
turned towards him and lay on a singed fragment of Aldonza's embroidered curtain, while a little
red flame was licking the spiral folds of the screw, trying, as it were, to gather energy to
do more than blacken it.  Ambrose could have wept over it at any other moment, but now he could
only catch up a brand--it was the leg of his master's carved chair--and run back with it. 
Lucas ventured to light a lamp, and they could then see the old man's face pale, but calm and
still, with his long white beard flowing over his breast.  There was no blood, no look of pain,
only a set look about the eyes; and Aldonza cried, "Oh, father, thou art better!  Speak to
me!  Let Master Lucas lift thee up!"

"Nay, my child.  I cannot move hand or foot.  Let me lie thus till the Angel of Death come
for me.  He is very near."  He spoke in short sentences.  "Water--nay--no pain," he added then,
and Ambrose ran for some water in the first battered fragment of a tin pot he could find. They
bathed his face and he gathered strength after a time to say, "A priest!--oh for a priest to
shrive and housel me."

"I will find one," said Ambrose, speeding out into the court over fragments of the beautiful
work for which Abenali was hated, and over the torn, half-burnt leaves of the beloved store
of Lucas.  The fire had died down, but morning twilight was beginning to dawn, and all was
perfectly still after the recent tumult though for a moment or two Ambrose heard some distant
cries.

Where should he go?  Priests indeed were plentiful, but both his friends were in bad odour
with the ordinary ones.  Lucas had avoided both the Lenten shrift and Easter Communion, and
what Miguel might have done, Ambrose was uncertain.  Some young priests had actually been among
the foremost in sacking the dwellings of the unfortunate foreigners, and Ambrose was quite
uncertain whether he might not fall on one of that stamp--or on one who might vex the old man's
soul--perhaps deny him the Sacraments altogether.  As he saw the pale lighted windows of Saint
Paul's, it struck him to see whether any one were within.  The light might be only from some
of the tapers burning perpetually, but the pale light in the north-east, the morning chill,
and the clock striking three, reminded him that it must be the hour of Prime, and he said to
himself, "Sure, if a priest be worshipping at this hour, he will be a good and merciful man.
I can but try."

The door of the transept yielded to his hand.  He came forward, lighted through the darkness
by the gleam of the candles, which cast a huge and awful shadow from the crucifix of the rood-screen
upon the pavement. Before it knelt a black figure in prayer.  Ambrose advanced in some awe
and doubt how to break in on these devotions, but the priest had heard his step, rose and said,
"What is it, my son?  Dost thou seek sanctuary after these sad doings?"

"Nay, reverend sir," said Ambrose.  "'Tis a priest for a dying man I seek;" and in reply to
the instant question, where it was, he explained in haste who the sufferer was, and how he
had received a fatal blow, and was begging for the Sacraments.  "And oh, sir!" he added, "he
is a holy and God-fearing man, if ever one lived, and hath been cruelly and foully entreated
by jealous and wicked folk, who hated him for his skill and industry."

"Alack for the unhappy lads; and alack for those who egged them on," said the priest.  "Truly
they knew not what they did.  I will come with thee, my good youth.  Thou hast not been one
of them?"

"No, truly sir, save that I was carried along and could not break from the throng.  I work
for Lucas Hansen, the Dutch printer, whom they have likewise plundered in their savage rage."

"'Tis well.  Thou canst then bear this," said the priest, taking a thick wax candle.  Then
reverently advancing to the Altar, whence he took the pyx, or gold case in which the Host was
reserved, he lighted the candle, which he gave, together with his stole, to the youth to bear
before him.

Then, when the light fell full on his features, Ambrose with a strange thrill of joy and trust
perceived that it was no other than Dean Colet, who had here been praying against the fury
of the people.  He was very thankful, feeling intuitively that there was no fear but that Abenali
would be understood, and for his own part, the very contact with the man whom he revered seemed
to calm and soothe him, though on that solemn errand no word could be spoken.  Ambrose went
on slowly before, his dark head uncovered, the priestly stole hanging over his arm, his hands
holding aloft the tall candle of virgin wax, while the Dean followed closely with feeble steps,
looking frail and worn, but with a grave, sweet solemnity on his face.  It was a perfectly
still morning, and as they slowly paced along, the flame burnt steadily with little flickering,
while the pure, delicately-coloured sky overhead was becoming every moment lighter, and only
the larger stars were visible. The houses were absolutely still, and the only person they met,
a lad creeping homewards after the fray, fell on his knees bareheaded as he perceived their
errand.  Once or twice again sounds came up from the city beneath, like shrieks or wailing
breaking strangely on that fair peaceful May morn; but still that pair went on till Ambrose
had guided the Dean to the yard, where, except that the daylight was revealing more and more
of the wreck around, all was as he had left it.  Aldonza, poor child, with her black hair hanging
loose like a veil, for she had been startled from her bed, still sat on the ground making her
lap a pillow for the white-bearded head, nobler and more venerable than ever.  On it lay, in
the absolute immobility produced by the paralysing blow, the fine features already in the solemn
grandeur of death, and only the movement of the lips under the white flowing beard and of the
dark eyes showing life.

Dean Colet said afterwards that he felt as if he had been called to the death-bed of Israel,
or of Barzillai the Gileadite, especially when the old man, in the Oriental phraseology he
had never entirely lost, said, "I thank Thee, my God, and the God of my fathers, that Thou
hast granted me that which I had prayed for."

The Dutch printer was already slightly known to the Dean, having sold him many books.  A few
words were exchanged with him, but it was plain that the dying man could not be moved, and
that his confession must be made on the lap of the young girl.  Colet knelt over him so as
to be able to hear, while Lucas and Ambrose withdrew, but were soon called back for the remainder
of the service for the dying.  The old man's face showed perfect peace.  All worldly thought
and care seemed to have been crushed out of him by the blow, and he did not even appear to
think of the unprotected state of his daughter, although he blessed her with solemn fervour
immediately after receiving the Viaticum--then lay murmuring to himself sentences which Ambrose,
who had learnt much from him, knew to be from his Arabic breviary about palm-branches, and
the twelve manner of fruits of the Tree of Life.

It was a strange scene--the grand, calm, patriarchal old man, so peaceful on his dark-haired
daughter's lap in the midst of the shattered home in the old feudal stable.  All were silent
a while in awe, but the Dean was the first to move and speak, calling Lucas forward to ask
sundry questions of him.

"Is there no good woman," he asked, "who could be with this poor child and take her home, when
her father shall have passed away?"

"Mine uncle's wife, sir," said Ambrose, a little doubtfully.  "I trow she would come--since
I can certify her that your reverence holds him for a holy man."

"I had thy word for it," said the Dean.  "Ah! reply not, my son, I see well how it may be with
you here.  But tell those who will take the word of John Colet that never did I mark the passing
away of one who had borne more for the true holy Catholic faith, nor held it more to his soul's
comfort."

For the Dean, a man of vivid intelligence, knew enough of the Moresco persecutions to be able
to gather from the words of Lucas and Ambrose, and the confession of the old man himself, a
far more correct estimate of Abenali's sufferings, and constancy to the truth, than any of
the more homebred wits could have divined.  He knew, too, that his own orthodoxy was so called
in question by the narrower and more unspiritual section of the clergy that only the appreciative
friendship of the King and the Cardinal kept him securely in his position.

Ambrose sped away, knowing that Perronel would be quite satisfied.  He was sure of her ready
compassion and good-will, but she had so often bewailed his running after learning and possibly
heretical doctrine, that he had doubted whether she would readily respond to a summons, on
his own authority alone, to one looked on with so much suspicion as Master Michael.  Colet
intimated his intention of remaining a little longer to pray with the dying man, and further
wrote a few words on his tablets, telling Ambrose to leave them with one of the porters at
his house as he went past Saint Paul's.

It was broad daylight now, a lovely May morning, such as generally called forth the maidens,
small and great, to the meadows to rub their fresh cheeks with the silvery dew, and to bring
home kingcups, cuckoo flowers, blue bottles, and cowslips for the Maypoles that were to be
decked.  But all was silent now, not a house was open, the rising sun made the eastern windows
of the churches a blaze of light, and from the west door of Saint Paul's the city beneath seemed
sleeping, only a wreath or two of smoke rising.  Ambrose found the porter looking out for his
master in much perturbation.  He groaned as he looked at the tablets, and heard where the Dean
was, and said that came of being a saint on earth.  It would be the death of him ere long!
What would old Mistress Colet, his mother, say?  He would have detained the youth with his
inquiries, but Ambrose said he had to speed down to the Temple on an errand from the Dean,
and hurried away.  All Ludgate Hill was now quiet, every house closed, but here and there lay
torn shreds of garments, or household vessels.

As he reached Fleet Street, however, there was a sound of horses' feet, and a body of men-at-arms
with helmets glancing in the sun were seen. There was a cry, "There's one!  That's one of the
lewd younglings!  At him!"

And Ambrose to his horror and surprise saw two horsemen begin to gallop towards him, as if
to ride him down.  Happily he was close to a narrow archway leading to an alley down which
no war-horse could possibly make its way, and dashing into it and round a corner, he eluded
his pursuers, and reached the bank of the river, whence, being by this time experienced in
the by-ways of London, he could easily reach Perronel's house.

She was standing at her door looking out anxiously, and as she saw him she threw up her hands
in thanksgiving to our Lady that here he was at last, and then turned to scold him.  "O lad,
lad, what a night thou hast given me!  I trusted at least that thou hadst wit to keep out of
a fray and to let the poor aliens alone, thou that art always running after yonder old Spaniard.
Hey! what now?  Did they fall on him!  Fie!  Shame on them!--a harmless old man like that."

"Yea, good aunt, and what is more, they have slain him, I fear me, outright."

Amidst many a "good lack" and exclamation of pity and indignation from Perronel, Ambrose told
his tale of that strange night, and entreated her to come with him to do what was possible
for Abenali and his daughter. She hesitated a little; her kind heart was touched, but she hardly
liked to leave her house, in case her husband should come in, as he generally contrived to
do in the early morning, now that the Cardinal's household was lodged so near her.  Sheltered
as she was by the buildings of the Temple, she had heard little or nothing of the noise of
the riot, though she had been alarmed at her nephew's absence, and an officious neighbour had
run in to tell her first that the prentice lads were up and sacking the houses of the strangers,
and next that the Tower was firing on them, and the Lord Mayor's guard and the gentlemen of
the Inns of Court were up in arms to put them down.  She said several times, "Poor soul!" and,
"Yea, it were a shame to leave her to the old Dutchkin," but with true Flemish deliberation
she continued her household arrangements, and insisted that the bowl of broth, which she set
on the table, should be partaken of by herself and Ambrose before she would stir a step.  "Not
eat!  Now out on thee, lad! what good dost thou think thou or I can do if we come in faint
and famished, where there's neither bite nor sup to be had?  As for me, not a foot will I budge,
till I have seen thee empty that bowl.  So to it, my lad!  Thou hast been afoot all night,
and lookst so grimed and ill-favoured a varlet that no man would think thou camest from an
honest wife's house.  Wash thee at the pail!  Get thee into thy chamber and put on clean garments,
or I'll not walk the street with thee!  'Tis not safe--thou wilt be put in ward for one of
the rioters."

Everybody who entered that little house obeyed Mistress Randall, and Ambrose submitted, knowing
it vain to resist, and remembering the pursuit he had recently escaped; yet the very refreshment
of food and cleanliness revealed to him how stiff and weary were his limbs, though he was in
no mood for rest.  His uncle appeared at the door just as he had hoped Perronel was ready.

"Ah! there's one of you whole and safe!" he exclaimed.  "Where is the other?"

"Stephen?" exclaimed Ambrose.  "I saw him last in Warwick Inner Ward." And in a few words he
explained.  Hal Randall shook his head.  "May all be well," he exclaimed, and then he told
how Sir Thomas Parr had come at midnight and roused the Cardinal's household with tidings that
all the rabble of London were up, plundering and murdering all who came in their way, and that
he had then ridden on to Richmond to the King with the news.  The Cardinal had put his house
into a state of defence, not knowing against whom the riot might be directed--and the jester
had not been awakened till too late to get out to send after his wife, besides which, by that
time, intelligence had come in that the attack was directed entirely on the French and Spanish
merchants and artificers in distant parts of the city and suburbs, and was only conducted by
lads with no better weapons than sticks, so that the Temple and its precincts were in no danger
at all.

The mob had dispersed of its own accord by about three or four o'clock, but by that hour the
Mayor had got together a force, the Gentlemen of the Inns of Court and the Yeomen of the Tower
were up in arms, and the Earl of Shrewsbury had come in with a troop of horse.  They had met
the rioters, and had driven them in herds like sheep to the different prisons, after which
Lord Shrewsbury had come to report to the Cardinal that all was quiet, and the jester having
gathered as much intelligence as he could, had contrived to slip into the garments that concealed
his motley, and to reach home.  He gave ready consent to Perronel's going to the aid of the
sufferers in Warwick Inner Ward, especially at the summons of the Dean of Saint Paul's, and
even to her bringing home the little wench.  Indeed, he would escort her thither himself, for
he was very anxious about Stephen, and Ambrose was so dismayed by the account he gave as to
reproach himself extremely for having parted company with his brother, and never having so
much as thought of him as in peril, while absorbed in care for Abenali.  So the three set out
together, when no doubt the sober, solid appearance which Randall's double suit of apparel
and black gown gave him, together with his wife's matronly and respectable look, were no small
protection to Ambrose, for men-at-arms were prowling about the streets, looking hungry to pick
up straggling victims; and one actually stopped Randall to interrogate him as to who the youth
was, and what was his errand.

Before Saint Paul's they parted, the husband and wife going towards Warwick Inner Ward, whither
Ambrose, fleeter of foot, would follow, so soon as he had ascertained at the Dragon court whether
Stephen was at home.

Alas! at the gate he was hailed with the inquiry whether he had seen his brother or Giles.
The whole yard was disorganised, no work going on. The lads had not been seen all night, and
the master himself had in the midst of his displeasure and anxiety been summoned to the Guildhall.
The last that was known was Giles's rescue, and the assault on Alderman Mundy.  Smallbones
and Steelman had both gone in different directions to search for the two apprentices, and Dennet,
who had flown down unheeded and unchecked at the first hope of news, pulled Ambrose by the
sleeve, and exclaimed, "Oh!  Ambrose, Ambrose! they can never hurt them!  They can never do
any harm to our lads, can they?"

Ambrose hoped for the same security, but in his dismay, could only hurry after his uncle and aunt.

He found the former at the door of the old stable--whence issued wild screams and cries.  Several
priests and attendants were there now, and the kind Dean with Lucas was trying to induce Aldonza
to relax the grasp with which she embraced the body, whence a few moments before the brave
and constant spirit had departed.  Her black hair hanging over like a veil, she held the inanimate
head to her bosom, sobbing and shrieking with the violence of her Eastern nature.  The priest
who had been sent for to take care of the corpse, and bear it to the mortuary of the Minster,
wanted to move her by force; but the Dean insisted on one more gentle experiment, and beckoned
to the kindly woman, whom he saw advancing with eyes full of tears.  Perronel knelt down by
her, persevered when the poor girl stretched out her hand to beat her off, crying, "Off! go!
Leave me my father!  O father, father, joy of my life! my one only hope and stay, leave me
not!  Wake! wake, speak to thy child, O my father!"

Though the child had never seen or heard of Eastern wailings over the dead, yet hereditary
nature prompted her to the lamentations that scandalised the priests and even Lucas, who broke
in with, "Fie, maid, thou mournest as one who hath no hope."  But Dr Colet still signed to
them to have patience, and Perronel somehow contrived to draw the girl's head on her breast
and give her a motherly kiss, such as the poor child had never felt since she, when almost
a babe, had been lifted from her dying mother's side in the dark stifling hold of the vessel
in the Bay of Biscay.  And in sheer surprise and sense of being soothed she ceased her cries,
listened to the tender whispers and persuasions about holy men who would care for her father,
and his wishes that she should be a good maid--till at last she yielded, let her hands be loosed,
allowed Perronel to lift the venerable head from her knee, and close the eyes-- then to gather
her in her arms, and lead her to the door, taking her, under Ambrose's guidance, into Lucas's
abode, which was as utterly and mournfully dismantled as their own, but where Perronel, accustomed
in her wandering days to all sorts of contrivances, managed to bind up the streaming hair,
and, by the help of her own cloak, to bring the poor girl into a state in which she could be
led through the streets.

The Dean meantime had bidden Lucas to take shelter at his own house, and the old Dutchman had
given a sort of doubtful acceptance.

Ambrose, meanwhile, half distracted about his brother, craved counsel of the jester where to
seek him.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

ILL MAY DAY.

  "With two and two together tied,
  Through Temple Bar and Strand they go,
  To Westminster, there to be tried,
  Ropes about their necks also."
  Ill May Day.

And where was Stephen?  Crouching, wretched with hunger, cold, weariness, blows, and what was
far worse, sense of humiliation and disgrace, and tenor for the future, in a corner of the
yard of Newgate-- whither the whole set of lads, surprised in Warwick Inner Court by the law
students of the Inns of Court, had been driven like so many cattle, at the sword's point, with
no attention or perception that he and Giles had been struggling against the spoilers.

Yet this fact made them all the more forlorn.  The others, some forty in number, their companions
in misfortune, included most of the Barbican prentices, who were of the Eagle faction, special
enemies alike to Abenali and to the Dragon, and these held aloof from Headley and Birkenholt,
nay, reviled them for the attack which they declared had caused the general capture.

The two lads of the Dragon had, in no measured terms, denounced the cruelty to the poor old
inoffensive man, and were denounced in their turn as friends of the sorcerer.  But all were
too much exhausted by the night's work to have spirit for more than a snarling encounter of
words, and the only effect was that Giles and Stephen were left isolated in their misery outside
the shelter of the handsome arched gateway under which the others congregated.

Newgate had been rebuilt by Whittington out of pity to poor prisoners and captives.  It must
have been unspeakably dreadful before, for the foulness of the narrow paved court, shut in
by strong walls, was something terrible.  Tired, spent, and aching all over, and with boyish
callousness to dirt, still Giles and Stephen hesitated to sit down, and when at last they could
stand no longer, they rested, leaning against one another.  Stephen tried to keep up hope by
declaring that his master would soon get them released, and Giles alternated between despair,
and declarations that he would have justice on those who so treated his father's son.  They
dropped asleep--first one and then the other--from sheer exhaustion, waking from time to time
to realise that it was no dream, and to feel all the colder and more cramped.

By and by there were voices at the gate.  Friends were there asking after their own Will, or
John, or Thomas, as the case might be.  The jailer opened a little wicket-window in the heavy
door, and, no doubt for a consideration, passed in food to certain lads whom he called out,
but it did not always reach its destination.  It was often torn away as by hungry wolves. 
For though the felons had been let out, when the doors were opened; the new prisoners were
not by any means all apprentices.  There were watermen, husbandmen, beggars, thieves, among
them, attracted by the scent of plunder; and even some of the elder lads had no scruple in
snatching the morsel from the younger ones.

Poor little Jasper Hope, a mischievous little curly-headed idle fellow, only thirteen, just
apprenticed to his brother the draper, and rushing about with the other youths in the pride
of his flat cap, was one of the sufferers.  A servant had been at the door, promising that
his brother would speedily have him released, and handing in bread and meat, of which he was
instantly robbed by George Bates and three or four more big fellows, and sent away reeling
and sobbing, under a heavy blow, with all the mischief and play knocked out of him.  Stephen
and Giles called "Shame!" but were unheeded, and they could only draw the little fellow up
to them, and assure him that his brother would soon come for him.

The next call at the gate was Headley and Birkenholt--

"Master Headley's prentices--Be they here?"

And at their answer, not only the window, but the door in the gate was opened, and stooping
low to enter, Kit Smallbones came in, and not empty-handed.

"Ay, ay, youngsters," said he, "I knew how it would be, by what I saw elsewhere, so I came
with a fee to open locks.  How came ye to get into such plight as this?  And poor little Hope
too!  A fine pass when they put babes in jail."

"I'm prenticed!" said Jasper, though in a very weak little voice.

"Have you had bite or sup?" asked Kit.

And on their reply, telling how those who had had supplies from home had been treated, Smallbones
observed, "Let them try it," and stood, at all his breadth, guarding the two youths and little
Jasper, as they ate, Stephen at first with difficulty, in the dampness and foulness of the
place, but then ravenously.  Smallbones lectured them on their folly all the time, and made
them give an account of the night.  He said their master was at the Guildhall taking counsel
with the Lord Mayor, and there were reports that it would go hard with the rioters, for murder
and plunder had been done in many places, and he especially looked at. Giles with pity, and
asked how he came to embroil himself with Master Mundy?  Still his good-natured face cheered
them, and he promised further supplies.  He also relieved Stephen's mind about his brother,
telling of his inquiry at the Dragon in the morning.  All that day the condition of such of
the prisoners as had well-to-do friends was improving.  Fathers, brothers, masters, and servants,
came in quest of them, bringing food and bedding, and by exorbitant fees to the jailers obtained
for them shelter in the gloomy cells.  Mothers could not come, for a proclamation had gone
out that none were to babble, and men were to keep their wives at home.  And though there were
more material comforts, prospects were very gloomy.  Ambrose came when Kit Smallbones returned
with what Mrs Headley had sent the captives.  He looked sad and dazed, and clung to his brother,
but said very little, except that they ought to be locked up together, and he really would
have been left in Newgate, if Kit had not laid a great hand on his shoulder and almost forced
him away.

Master Headley himself arrived with Master Hope in the afternoon. Jasper sprang to his brother,
crying, "Simon!  Simon! you are come to take me out of this dismal, evil place?"  But Master
Hope--a tall, handsome, grave young man, who had often been much disturbed by his little brother's
pranks--could only shake his head with tears in his eyes, and, sitting down on the roll of
bedding, take him on his knee and try to console him with the hope of liberty in a few days.

He had tried to obtain the boy's release on the plea of his extreme youth, but the authorities
were hotly exasperated, and would hear of no mercy.  The whole of the rioters were to be tried
three days hence, and there was no doubt that some would be made an example of; the only question
was, how many?

Master Headley closely interrogated his own two lads, and was evidently sorely anxious about
his namesake, who, he feared, might be recognised by Alderman Mundy and brought forward as
a ringleader of the disturbance; nor did he feel at all secure that the plea that he had no
enmity to the foreigners, but had actually tried to defend Lucas and Abenali, would be attended
to for a moment, though Lucas Hansen had promised to bear witness of it.  Giles looked perfectly
stunned at the time, unable to take in the idea, but at night Stephen was wakened on the pallet
that they shared with little Jasper, by hearing him weeping and sobbing for his mother at Salisbury.

Time lagged on till the 4th of May.  Some of the poor boys whiled away their time with dreary
games in the yard, sometimes wrestling, but more often gambling with the dice, that one or
two happened to possess, for the dinners that were provided for the wealthier, sometimes even
betting on what the sentences would be, and who would be hanged, or who escape.

Poor lads, they did not, for the most part, realise their real danger, but Stephen was more
and more beset with home-sick longing for the glades and thickets of his native forest, and
would keep little Jasper and even Giles for an hour together telling of the woodland adventures
of those happy times, shutting his eyes to the grim stone walls, and trying to think himself
among the beeches, hollies, cherries, and hawthorns, shining in the May sun!  Giles and he
were close friends now, and with little Jasper, said their Paters and Aves together, that they
might be delivered from their trouble.  At last, on the 4th, the whole of the prisoners were
summoned roughly into the court, where harsh- looking men-at-arms proceeded to bind them together
in pairs to be marched through the streets to the Guildhall.  Giles and Stephen would naturally
have been put together, but poor little Jasper cried out so lamentably, when he was about to
be bound to a stranger, that Stephen stepped forward in his stead, begging that the boy might
go with Giles. The soldier made a contemptuous sound, but consented, and Stephen found that
his companion in misfortune, whose left elbow was tied to his right, was George Bates.

The two lads looked at each other in a strange, rueful manner, and Stephen said, "Shake hands,
comrade.  If we are to die, let us bear no ill-will."

George gave a cold, limp, trembling hand.  He looked wretched, subdued, tearful, and nearly
starved, for he had no kinsfolk at hand, and his master was too angry with him, and too much
afraid of compromising himself to have sent him any supplies.  Stephen tried to unbutton his
own pouch, but not succeeding with his left hand, bade George try with his right.  "There's
a cake of bread there," he said.  "Eat that, and thou'lt be able better to stand up like a
man, come what will."

George devoured it eagerly.  "Ah!" he said, in a stronger voice, "Stephen Birkenholt, thou
art an honest fellow.  I did thee wrong.  If ever we get out of this plight--"

Here they were ordered to march, and in a long and doleful procession they set forth.  The
streets were lined with men-at-arms, for all the affections and sympathies of the people were
with the unfortunate boys, and a rescue was apprehended.

In point of fact, the Lord Mayor and aldermen were afraid of the King's supposing them to have
organised the assault on their rivals, and each was therefore desirous to show severity to
any one's apprentices save his own; while the nobility were afraid of contumacy on the part
of the citizens, and were resolved to crush down every rioter among them, so that they had
filled the city with their armed retainers.  Fathers and mothers, masters and dames, sisters
and fellow prentices, found their doors closely guarded, and could only look with tearful,
anxious eyes, at the processions of poor youths, many of them mere children, who were driven
from each of the jails to the Guildhall.  There when all collected the entire number amounted
to two hundred and seventy-eight though a certain proportion of these were grown men, priests,
wherrymen and beggars, who had joined the rabble in search of plunder.

It did not look well for them that the Duke of Norfolk and his son, the Earl of Surrey, were
joined in the commission with the Lord Mayor.  The upper end of the great hall was filled with
aldermen in their robes and chains, with the sheriffs of London and the whole imposing array,
and the Lord Mayor with the Duke sat enthroned above them in truly awful dignity.  The Duke
was a hard and pitiless man, and bore the City a bitter grudge for the death of his retainer,
the priest killed in Cheapside, and in spite of all his poetical fame, it may be feared that
the Earl of Surrey was not of much more merciful mood, while their men- at-arms spoke savagely
of hanging, slaughtering, or setting the City on fire.

The arraignment was very long, as there were so large a number of names to be read, and, to
the horror of all, it was not for a mere riot, but for high treason.  The King, it was declared,
being in amity with all Christian princes, it was high treason to break the truce and league
by attacking their subjects resident in England.  The terrible punishment of the traitor would
thus be the doom of all concerned, and in the temper of the Howards and their retainers, there
was little hope of mercy, nor, in times like those, was there even much prospect that, out
of such large numbers, some might escape.

A few were more especially cited, fourteen in number, among them George Bates, Walter Ball,
and Giles Headley, who had certainly given cause for the beginning of the affray.  There was
no attempt to defend George Bates, who seemed to be stunned and bewildered beyond the power
of speaking or even of understanding, but as Giles cast his eyes round in wild, terrified appeal,
Master Headley rose up in his alderman's gown, and prayed leave to be heard in his defence,
as he had witnesses to bring in his favour.

"Is he thy son, good Armourer Headley?" demanded the Duke of Norfolk, who held the work of
the Dragon court in high esteem.

"Nay, my Lord Duke, but he is in the place of one, my near kinsman and godson, and so soon
as his time be up, bound to wed my only child!  I pray you to hear his cause, ere cutting off
the heir of an old and honourable house."

Norfolk and his sons murmured something about the Headley skill in armour, and the Lord Mayor
was willing enough for mercy, but Sir John Mundy here rose: "My Lord Duke, this is the very
young man who was first to lay hands on me!  Yea, my lords and sirs, ye have already heard
how their rude sport, contrary to proclamation, was the cause of the tumult. When I would have
bidden them go home, the one brawler asks me insolently, `Wherefore?' the other smote me with
his sword, whereupon the whole rascaille set on me, and as Master Alderman Headley can testify,
I scarce reached his house alive.  I ask should favour overcome justice, and a ringleader,
who hath assaulted the person of an alderman, find favour above others?"

"I ask not for favour," returned Headley, "only that witnesses be heard on his behalf, ere
he be condemned."

Headley, as a favourite with the Duke, prevailed to have permission to call his witnesses;
Christopher Smallbones, who had actually rescued Alderman Mundy from the mob, and helped him
into the Dragon court, could testify that the proclamation had been entirely unheard in the
din of the youths looking on at the game.  And this was followed up by Lucas Hansen declaring
that so far from having attacked or plundered him and the others in Warwick Inner Ward, the
two, Giles Headley and Stephen Birkenholt, had come to their defence, and fallen on those who
were burning their goods.

On this a discussion followed between the authorities seated at the upper end of the hall.
The poor anxious watchers below could only guess by the gestures what was being agitated as
to their fate, and Stephen was feeling it sorely hard that Giles should be pleaded for as the
master's kinsman, and he left to so cruel a fate, no one saying a word for him but unheeded
Lucas.  Finally, without giving of judgment, the whole of the miserable prisoners, who had
been standing without food for hours, were marched back, still tied, to their several prisons,
while their guards pointed out the gibbets where they were to suffer the next day.

Master Headley was not quite so regardless of his younger apprentice as Stephen imagined. 
There was a sort of little council held in his hall when he returned--sad, dispirited, almost
hopeless--to find Hal Randall anxiously awaiting him.  The alderman said he durst not plead
for Stephen, lest he should lose both by asking too much, and his young kinsman had the first
right, besides being in the most peril as having been singled out by name; whereas Stephen
might escape with the multitude if there were any mercy.  He added that the Duke of Norfolk
was certainly inclined to save one who knew the secret of Spanish sword- blades; but that he
was fiercely resolved to be revenged for the murder of his lewd priest in Cheapside, and that
Sir John Mundy was equally determined that Giles should not escape.

"What am I to say to his mother?  Have I brought him from her for this?" mourned Master Headley.
"Ay, and Master Randall, I grieve as much for thy nephew, who to my mind hath done nought amiss.
A brave lad!  A good lad, who hath saved mine own life.  Would that I could do aught for him!
It is a shame!"

"Father," said Dennet, who had crept to the back of his chair, "the King would save him!  Mind
you the golden whistle that the grandame keepeth?"

"The maid hath hit it!" exclaimed Randall.  "Master alderman!  Let me but have the little wench
and the whistle to-morrow morn, and it is done.  How sayest thou, pretty mistress?  Wilt thou
go with me and ask thy cousin's life, and poor Stephen's, of the King?"

"With all my heart, sir," said Dennet, coming to him with outstretched hands.  "Oh! sir, canst
thou save them?  I have been vowing all I could think of to our Lady and the saints, and now
they are going to grant it!"

"Tarry a little," said the alderman.  "I must know more of this.  Where wouldst thou take my
child?  How obtain access to the King's Grace?"

"Worshipful sir, trust me," said Randall.  "Thou know'st I am sworn servant to my Lord Cardinal,
and that his folk are as free of the Court as the King's own servants.  If thine own folk will
take us up the river to Richmond, and there wait for us while I lead the maid to the King,
I can well-nigh swear to thee that she will prevail."

The alderman looked greatly distressed.  Ambrose threw himself on his knees before him, and
in an agony entreated him to consent, assuring him that Master Randall could do what he promised.
The alderman was much perplexed.  He knew that his mother, who was confined to her bed by rheumatism,
would be shocked at the idea.  He longed to accompany his daughter himself, but for him to
be absent from the sitting of the court might be fatal to Giles, and he could not bear to lose
any chance for the poor youths.

Meantime an interrogative glance and a nod had passed between Tibble and Randall, and when
the alderman looked towards the former, always his prime minister, the answer was, "Sir, me
seemeth that it were well to do as Master Randall counselleth.  I will go with Mistress Dennet,
if such be your will.  The lives of two such youths as our prentices may not lightly be thrown
away, while by God's providence there is any means of striving to save them."

Consent then was given, and it was further arranged that Dennet and her escort should be ready
at the early hour of half-past four, so as to elude the guards who were placed in the streets;
and also because King Henry in the summer went very early to mass, and then to some out-of-
door sport.  Randall said he would have taken his own good woman to have the care of the little
mistress, but that the poor little orphan Spanish wench had wept herself so sick, that she
could not be left to a stranger.

Master Headley himself brought the child by back streets to the river, and thence down to the
Temple stairs, accompanied by Tibble Steelman, and a maidservant on whose presence her grandmother
had insisted. Dennet had hardly slept all night for excitement and perturbation, and she looked
very white, small, and insignificant for her thirteen years, when Randall and Ambrose met her,
and placed her carefully in the barge which was to take them to Richmond.  It was somewhat
fresh in the very early morning, and no one was surprised that Master Randall wore a large
dark cloak as they rowed up the river.  There was very little speech between the passengers;
Dennet sat between Ambrose and Tibble.  They kept their heads bowed.  Ambrose's brow was on
one hand, his elbow on his knee, but he spared the other to hold Dennet.  He had been longing
for the old assurance he would once have had, that to vow himself to a life of hard service
in a convent would be the way to win his brother's life; but he had ceased to be able to feel
that such bargains were the right course, or that a convent necessarily afforded sure way of
service, and he never felt more insecure of the way and means to prayer than in this hour of
anguished supplication.

When they came beyond the City, within sight of the trees of Sheen, as Richmond was still often
called, Randall insisted that Dennet should eat some of the bread and meat that Tibble had
brought in a wallet for her. "She must look her best," he said aside to the foreman.  "I would
that she were either more a babe or better favoured!  Our Hal hath a tender heart for a babe
and an eye for a buxom lass."

He bade the maid trim up the child's cap and make the best of her array, and presently reached
some stairs leading up to the park.  There he let Ambrose lift her out of the boat.  The maid
would fain have followed, but he prevented this, and when she spoke of her mistress having
bidden her follow wherever the child went, Tibble interfered, telling her that his master's
orders were that Master Randall should do with her as he thought meet.  Tibble himself followed
until they reached a thicket entirely concealing them from the river.  Halting here, Randall,
with his nephew's help, divested himself of his long gown and cloak, his beard and wig, produced
cockscomb and bauble from his pouch, and stood before the astonished eyes of Dennet as the jester!

She recoiled upon Tibble with a little cry, "Oh, why should he make sport of us?  Why disguise
himself?"

"Listen, pretty mistress," said Randall.  "'Tis no disguise, Tibble there can tell you, or
my nephew.  My disguise lies there," pointing to his sober raiment.  "Thus only can I bring
thee to the King's presence! Didst think it was jest?  Nay, verily, I am as bound to try to
save my sweet Stevie's life, my sister's own gallant son, as thou canst be to plead for thy
betrothed."  Dennet winced.

"Ay, Mistress Dennet," said Tibble, "thou mayst trust him, spite of his garb, and 'tis the
sole hope.  He could only thus bring thee in.  Go thou on, and the lad and I will fall to our
prayers."

Dennet's bosom heaved, but she looked up in the jester's dark eyes, saw the tears in them,
made an effort, put her hand in his, and said, "I will go with him."

Hal led her away, and they saw Tibble and Ambrose both fall on their knees behind the hawthorn
bush, to speed them with their prayers, while all the joyous birds singing their carols around
seemed to protest against the cruel captivity and dreadful doom of the young gladsome spirits
pent up in the City prisons.

One full gush of a thrush's song in especial made Dennet's eyes overflow, which the jester
perceived and said, "Nay, sweet maid, no tears.  Kings brook not to be approached with blubbered
faces.  I marvel not that it seems hard to thee to go along with such as I, but let me be what
I will outside, mine heart is heavy enough, and thou wilt learn sooner or later, that fools
are not the only folk who needs must smile when they have a load within."

And then, as much to distract her thoughts and prevent tears as to reassure her, he told her
what he had before told his nephews of the inducements that had made him Wolsey's jester, and
impressed on her the forms of address.

"Thou'lt hear me make free with him, but that's part of mine office, like the kitten I've seen
tickling the mane of the lion in the Tower. Thou must say, `An it please your Grace,' and thou
needst not speak of his rolling in the mire, thou wottest, or it may anger him."

The girl showed that her confidence became warmer by keeping nearer to his side, and presently
she said, "I must beg for Stephen first, for 'tis his whistle."

"Blessings on thee, fair wench, for that, yet seest thou, 'tis the other springald who is in
the greater peril, and he is closer to thy father and to thee."

"He fled, when Stephen made in to the rescue of my father," said Dennet.

"The saints grant we may so work with the King that he may spare them both," ejaculated Randall.

By this time the strange pair were reaching the precincts of the great dwelling-house, where
about the wide-open door loitered gentlemen, grooms, lacqueys, and attendants of all kinds.
Randall reconnoitred.

"An we go up among all these," he said, "they might make their sport of us both, so that we
might lose time.  Let us see whether the little garden postern be open."

Henry the Eighth had no fears of his people, and kept his dwellings more accessible than were
the castles of many a subject.  The door in the wall proved to be open, and with an exclamation
of joy, Randall pointed out two figures, one in a white silken doublet and hose, with a short
crimson cloak over his shoulder, the other in scarlet and purple robes, pacing the walk under
the wall--Henry's way of holding a cabinet council with his prime minister on a summer's morning.

"Come on, mistress, put a brave face on it!" the jester encouraged the girl, as he led her
forward, while the king, catching sight of them, exclaimed, "Ha! there's old Patch.  What doth
he there?"

But the Cardinal, impatient of interruption, spoke imperiously, "What dost thou here, Merriman?
Away, this is no time for thy fooleries and frolics."

But the King, with some pleasure in teasing, and some of the enjoyment of a schoolboy at a
break in his tasks, called out, "Nay, come hither, quipsome one!  What new puppet hast brought
hither to play off on us?"

"Yea, brother Hal," said the jester, "I have brought one to let thee know how Tom of Norfolk
and his crew are playing the fool in the Guildhall, and to ask who will be the fool to let
them wreak their spite on the best blood in London, and leave a sore that will take many a
day to heal."

"How is this, my Lord Cardinal?" said Henry; "I bade them make an example of a few worthless
hinds, such as might teach the lusty burghers to hold their lads in bounds and prove to our
neighbours that their churlishness was by no consent of ours."

"I trow," returned the Cardinal, "that one of these same hinds is a boon companion of the fool's--hinc
illae lachrymae, and a speech that would have befitted a wise man's mouth."

"There is work that may well make even a fool grave, friend Thomas," replied the jester.

"Nay, but what hath this little wench to say?" asked the King, looking down on the child from
under his plumed cap with a face set in golden hair, the fairest and sweetest, as it seemed
to her, that she had ever seen, as he smiled upon her.  "Methinks she is too small to be thy
love. Speak out, little one.  I love little maids, I have one of mine own. Hast thou a brother
among these misguided lads?"

"Not so, an please your Grace," said Dennet, who fortunately was not in the least shy, and
was still too young for a maiden's shamefastness. "He is to be my betrothed.  I would say,
one of them is, but the other-- he saved my father's life once."

The latter words were lost in the laughter of the King and Cardinal at the unblushing avowal
of the small, prim-faced maiden.

"Oh ho!  So 'tis a case of true love, whereto a King's face must needs show grace.  Who art
thou, fair suppliant, and who may this swain of thine be?"

"I am Dennet Headley, so please your Grace; my father is Giles Headley the armourer, Alderman
of Cheap Ward," said Dennet, doing her part bravely, though puzzled by the King's tone of banter;
"and see here, your Grace!"

"Ha! the hawk's whistle that Archduke Philip gave me!  What of that?  I gave it--ay, I gave
it to a youth that came to mine aid, and reclaimed a falcon for me!  Is't he, child?"

"Oh, sir, 'tis he who came in second at the butts, next to Barlow, 'tis Stephen Birkenholt!
And he did nought!  They bore no ill-will to strangers!  No, they were falling on the wicked
fellows who had robbed and slain good old Master Michael, who taught our folk to make the only
real true Damascus blades welded in England.  But the lawyers of the Inns of Court fell on
them all alike, and have driven them off to Newgate, and poor little Jasper Hope too.  And
Alderman Mundy bears ill- will to Giles.  And the cruel Duke of Norfolk and his men swear they'll
have vengeance on the Cheap, and there'll be hanging and quartering this very morn.  Oh! your
Grace, your Grace, save our lads! for Stephen saved my father."

"Thy tongue wags fast, little one," said the King, good-naturedly, "with thy Stephen and thy
Giles.  Is this same Stephen, the knight of the whistle and the bow, thy betrothed, and Giles
thy brother?"

"Nay, your Grace," said Dennet, hanging her head, "Giles Headley is my betrothed--that is,
when his time is served, he will be--father sets great store by him, for he is the only one
of our name to keep up the armoury, and he has a mother, Sir, a mother at Salisbury.  But oh,
Sir, Sir!  Stephen is so good and brave a lad!  He made in to save father from the robbers,
and he draws the best bow in Cheapside, and he can grave steel as well as Tibble himself, and
this is the whistle your Grace wots of."

Henry listened with an amused smile that grew broader as Dennet's voice all unconsciously became
infinitely more animated and earnest, when she began to plead Stephen's cause.

"Well, well, sweetheart," he said, "I trow thou must have the twain of them, though," he added
to the Cardinal, who smiled broadly, "it might perchance be more for the maid's peace than
she wots of now, were we to leave this same knight of the whistle to be strung up at once,
ere she have found her heart; but in sooth that I cannot do, owing well-nigh a life to him
and his brother.  Moreover, we may not have old Headley's skill in weapons lost!"

Dennet held her hands close clasped while these words were spoken apart. She felt as if her
hope, half granted, were being snatched from her, as another actor appeared on the scene, a
gentleman in a lawyer's gown, and square cap, which he doffed as he advanced and put his knee
to the ground before the King, who greeted him with, "Save you, good Sir Thomas, a fair morning
to you."

"They told me your Grace was in Council with my Lord Cardinal," said Sir Thomas More; "but
seeing that there was likewise this merry company, I durst venture to thrust in, since my business
is urgent."

Dennet here forgot court manners enough to cry out, "O your Grace! your Grace, be pleased for
pity's sake to let me have the pardon for them first, or they'll be hanged and dead.  I saw
the gallows in Cheapside, and when they are dead, what good will your Grace's mercy do them?"

"I see," said Sir Thomas.  "This little maid's errand jumps with mine own, which was to tell
your Grace that unless there be speedy commands to the Howards to hold their hands, there will
be wailing like that of Egypt in the City.  The poor boys, who were but shouting and brawling
after the nature of mettled youth--the most with nought of malice--are penned up like sheep
for the slaughter--ay, and worse than sheep, for we quarter not our mutton alive, whereas these
poor younglings--babes of thirteen, some of them--be indicted for high treason!  Will the parents,
shut in from coming to them by my Lord of Norfolks men, ever forget their agonies, I ask your
Grace?"

Henry's face grew red with passion.  "If Norfolk thinks to act the King, and turn the city
into a shambles,"--with a mighty oath--"he shall abye it.  Here, Lord Cardinal--more, let the
free pardon be drawn up for the two lads.  And we will ourselves write to the Lord Mayor and
to Norfolk that though they may work their will on the movers of the riot--that pestilent Lincoln
and his sort--not a prentice lad shall be touched till our pleasure be known.  There now, child,
thou hast won the lives of thy lads, as thou callest them.  Wilt thou rue the day, I marvel?
Why cannot some of their mothers pluck up spirit and beg them off as thou hast done?"

"Yea," said Wolsey.  "That were the right course.  If the Queen were moved to pray your Grace
to pity the striplings, then could the Spaniards make no plaint of too much clemency being shown."

They were all this time getting nearer the palace, and being now at a door opening into the
hall, Henry turned round.  "There, pretty maid, spread the tidings among thy gossips, that
they have a tender-hearted Queen, and a gracious King.  The Lord Cardinal will presently give
thee the pardon for both thy lads, and by and by thou wilt know whether thou thankest me for
it!"  Then putting his hand under her chin, he turned up her face to him, kissed her on each
cheek, and touched his feathered cap to the others, saying, "See that my bidding be done,"
and disappeared.

"It must be prompt, if it be to save any marked for death this morn," More in a low voice observed
to the Cardinal.  "Lord Edmund Howard is keen as a bloodhound on his vengeance."

Wolsey was far from being a cruel man, and besides, there was a natural antagonism between
him and the old nobility, and he liked and valued his fool, to whom he turned, saying, "And
what stake hast thou in this, sirrah?  Is't all pure charity?"

"I'm scarce such a fool as that, Cousin Red Hat," replied Randall, rallying his powers.  "I
leave that to Mr More here, whom we all know to be a good fool spoilt.  But I'll make a clean
breast of it.  This same Stephen is my sister's son, an orphan lad of good birth and breeding--whom,
my lord, I would die to save."

"Thou shalt have the pardon instantly, Merriman," said the Cardinal, and beckoning to one of
the attendants who clustered round the door, he gave orders that a clerk should instantly,
and very briefly, make out the form.  Sir Thomas More, hearing the name of Headley, added that
for him indeed the need of haste was great, since he was one of the fourteen sentenced to die
that morning.

Quipsome Hal was interrogated as to how he had come, and the Cardinal and Sir Thomas agreed
that the river would be as speedy a way of returning as by land; but they decided that a King's
pursuivant should accompany him, otherwise there would be no chance of forcing his way in time
through the streets, guarded by the Howard retainers.

As rapidly as was in the nature of a high officer's clerk to produce a dozen lines, the precious
document was indicted, and it was carried at last to Dennet, bearing Henry's signature and
seal.  She held it to her bosom, while, accompanied by the pursuivant, who--happily for them--was
interested in one of the unfortunate fourteen, and therefore did not wait to stand on his dignity,
they hurried across to the place where they had left the barge--Tibble and Ambrose joining
them on the way. Stephen was safe.  Of his life there could be no doubt, and Ambrose almost
repented of feeling his heart so light while Giles's fate hung upon their speed.

The oars were plied with hearty good-will, but the barge was somewhat heavy, and by and by
coming to a landing-place where two watermen had a much smaller and lighter boat, the pursuivant
advised that he should go forward with the more necessary persons, leaving the others to follow.
After a few words, the light weights of Tibble and Dennet prevailed in their favour, and they
shot forward in the little boat.

They passed the Temple--on to the stairs nearest Cheapside--up the street.  There was an awful
stillness, only broken by heavy knells sounding at intervals from the churches.  The back streets
were thronged by a trembling, weeping people, who all eagerly made way for the pursuivant,
as he called, "Make way, good people--a pardon!"

They saw the broader space of Cheapside.  Horsemen in armour guarded it, but they too opened
a passage for the pursuivant.  There was to be seen above the people's heads a scaffold.  A
fire burnt on it--the gallows and noosed rope hung above.

A figure was mounting the ladder.  A boy!  Oh, Heavens! would it be too late?  Who was it?
They were still too far off to see.  They might only be cruelly holding out hope to one of
the doomed.

The pursuivant shouted aloud--"In the King's name, Hold!"  He lifted Dennet on his shoulder,
and bade her wave her parchment.  An overpowering roar arose.  "A pardon! a pardon!  God save
the King!"

Every hand seemed to be forwarding the pursuivant and the child, and it was Giles Headley,
who, loosed from the hold of the executioner, stared wildly about him, like one distraught.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

PARDON.

  "`What if,' quoth she, `by Spanish blood
  Have London's stately streets been wet,
  Yet will I seek this country's good
  And pardon for these young men get.'"
  Churchill.

The night and morning had been terrible to the poor boys, who only had begun to understand
what awaited them.  The fourteen selected had little hope, and indeed a priest came in early
morning to hear the confessions of Giles Headley and George Bates, the only two who were in
Newgate.

George Bates was of the stolid, heavy disposition that seems armed by outward indifference,
or mayhap pride.  He knew that his case was hopeless, and he would not thaw even to the priest.
But Giles had been quite unmanned, and when he found that for the doleful procession to the
Guildhall he was to be coupled with George Bates, instead of either of his room-fellows, he
flung himself on Stephen's neck, sobbing out messages for his mother, and entreaties that,
if Stephen survived, he would be good to Aldonza.  "For you will wed Dennet, and--"

There the jailers roughly ordered him to hold his peace, and dragged him off to be pinioned
to his fellow-sufferer.  Stephen was not called till some minutes later, and had not seen him
since.  He himself was of course overshadowed by the awful gloom of apprehension for himself,
and pity for his comrades, and he was grieved at not having seen or heard of his brother or
master, but he had a very present care in Jasper, who was sickening in the prison atmosphere,
and when fastened to his arm, seemed hardly able to walk.  Leashed as they were, Stephen could
only help him by holding the free hand, and when they came to the hall, supporting him as much
as possible, as they stood in the miserable throng during the conclusion of the formalities,
which ended by the horrible sentence of the traitor being pronounced on the whole two hundred
and seventy-eight. Poor little Jasper woke for an interval from the sense of present discomfort
to hear it.  He seemed to stiffen all over with the shock of horror, and then hung a dead weight
on Stephen's arm.  It would have dragged him down, but there was no room to fall, and the wretchedness
of the lad against whom he staggered found vent in a surly imprecation, which was lost among
the cries and the entreaties of some of the others. The London magistracy were some of them
in tears, but the indictment for high treason removed the poor lads from their jurisdiction
to that of the Earl Marshal, and thus they could do nothing to save the fourteen foremost victims.
The others were again driven out of the hall to return to their prisons; the nearest pair of
lads doing their best to help Stephen drag his burthen along in the halt outside, to arrange
the sad processions, one of the guards, of milder mood, cut the cord that bound the lifeless
weight to Stephen, and permitted the child to be laid on the stones of the court, his collar
unbuttoned, and water to be brought.  Jasper was just reviving when the word came to march,
but still he could not stand, and Stephen was therefore permitted the free use of his arms,
in order to carry the poor little fellow.  Thirteen years made a considerable load for seventeen,
though Stephen's arms were exercised in the smithy, and it was a sore pull from the Guildhall.
Jasper presently recovered enough to walk with a good deal of support. When he was laid on
the bed he fell into an exhausted sleep, while Stephen kneeling, as the strokes of the knell
smote on his ear, prayed-- as he had never prayed before--for his comrade, for his enemy, and
for all the unhappy boys who were being led to their death wherever the outrages had been committed.

Once indeed there was a strange sound coming across that of the knell. It almost sounded like
an acclamation of joy.  Could people be so cruel, thought Stephen, as to mock poor Giles's
agonies?  There were the knells still sounding.  How long he did not know, for a beneficent
drowsiness stole over him as he knelt, and he was only awakened, at the same time as Jasper,
by the opening of his door.

He looked up to see three figures--his brother, his uncle, his master. Were they come to take
leave of him?  But the one conviction that their faces beamed with joy was all that he could
gather, for little Jasper sprang up with a scream of terror, "Stephen, Stephen, save me!  They
will cut out my heart," and clung trembling to his breast, with arms round his neck.

"Poor child! poor child!" sighed Master Headley.  "Would that I brought him the same tidings
as to thee!"

"Is it so?" asked Stephen, reading confirmation as he looked from the one to the other.  Though
he was unable to rise under the weight of the boy, life and light were coming to his eye, while
Ambrose clasped his hand tightly, choked by the swelling of his heart in almost an agony of
joy and thankfulness.

"Yea, my good lad," said the alderman.  "Thy good kinsman took my little wench to bear to the
King the token he gave thee."

"And Giles?"  Stephen asked, "and the rest?"

"Giles is safe.  For the rest--may God have mercy on their souls."

These words passed while Stephen rocked Jasper backwards and forwards, his face hidden on his neck.

"Come home," added Master Headley.  "My little Dennet and Giles cannot yet rejoice till thou
art with them.  Giles would have come himself, but he is sorely shaken, and could scarce stand."

Jasper caught the words, and loosing his friend's neck, looked up.  "Oh! are we going home?
Come, Stephen.  Where's brother Simon?  I want my good sister!  I want nurse!  Oh! take me
home!"  For as he tried to sit up, he fell back sick and dizzy on the bed.

"Alack! alack!" mourned Master Headley; and the jester, muttering that it was not the little
wench's fault, turned to the window, and burst into tears.  Stephen understood it all, and
though he felt a passionate longing for freedom, he considered in one moment whether there
were any one of his fellow prisoners to whom Jasper could be left, or who would be of the least
comfort to him, but could find no one, and resolved to cling to him as once to old Spring.

"Sir," he said, as he rose to his master, "I fear me he is very sick. Will they--will your
worship give me licence to bide with him till this ends?"

"Thou art a good-hearted lad," said the alderman with a hand on his shoulder.  "There is no
further danger of life to the prentice lads. The King hath sent to forbid all further dealing
with them, and hath bidden my little maid to set it about that if their mothers beg them grace
from good Queen Katherine, they shall have it.  But this poor child!  He can scarce be left.
His brother will take it well of thee if thou wilt stay with him till some tendance can be
had.  We can see to that.  Thanks be to Saint George and our good King, this good City is our
own again!"

The alderman turned away, and Ambrose and Stephen exchanged a passionate embrace, feeling what
it was to be still left to one another.  The jester too shook his nephew's hand, saying, "Boy,
boy, the blessing of such as I is scarce worth the having, but I would thy mother could see
thee this day."

Stephen was left with these words and his brother's look to bear him through a trying time.

For the "Captain of Newgate" was an autocrat, who looked on his captives as compulsory lodgers,
out of whom he was entitled to wring as much as possible--as indeed he had no other salary,
nor means of maintaining his underlings, a state of things which lasted for two hundred years
longer, until the days of James Oglethorpe and John Howard.  Even in the rare cases of acquittals,
the prisoner could not be released till he had paid his fees, and that Giles Headley should
have been borne off from the scaffold itself in debt to him was an invasion of his privileges,
which did not dispose him to be favourable to any one connected with that affair; and he liked
to show his power and dignity even to an alderman.

He was found sitting in a comfortable tapestried chamber, handsomely dressed in orange and
brown, and with a smooth sleek countenance and the appearance of a good-natured substantial
citizen.

He only half rose from his big carved chair, and touched without removing his cap, to greet
the alderman, as he observed, without the accustomed prefix of your worship--"So, you are come
about your prentice's fees and dues.  By Saint Peter of the Fetters, 'tis an irksome matter
to have such a troop of idle, mischievous, dainty striplings thrust on one, giving more trouble,
and making more call and outcry than twice as many honest thieves and pickpurses."

"Be assured, sir, they will scarce trouble you longer than they can help," said Master Headley.

"Yea, the Duke and my Lord Edmund are making brief work of them," quoth the jailer.  "Ha!"
with an oath, "what's that?  Nought will daunt those lads till the hangman is at their throats."

For it was a real hurrah that reached his ears.  The jester had got all the boys round him
in the court, and was bidding them keep up a good heart, for their lives were safe, and their
mothers would beg them off. Their shouts did not tend to increase the captain's good humour,
and though he certainly would not have let out Alderman Headley's remaining apprentice without
his fee, he made as great a favour of permission, and charged as exorbitantly, for a pardoned
man to remain within his domains as if they had been the most costly and delightful hostel
in the kingdom.

Master Hope, who presently arrived, had to pay a high fee for leave to bring Master Todd, the
barber-surgeon, with him to see his brother; but though he offered a mark a day, (a huge amount
at that time), the captain was obdurate in refusing to allow the patient to be attended by
his own old nurse, declaring that it was contrary to discipline, and, (what probably affected
him much more), one such woman could cause more trouble than a dozen felons.  No doubt it was
true, for she would have insisted on moderate cleanliness and comfort.  No other attendant
whom Mr Hope could find would endure the disgrace, the discomfort, and alarm of a residence
in Newgate for Jasper's sake; so that the draper's gratitude to Stephen Birkenholt, for voluntarily
sharing the little fellow's captivity, was great, and he gave payment to one or two of the
officials to secure the two lads being civilly treated, and that the provisions sent in reached
them duly.

Jasper did not in general seem very ill by day, only heavy, listless and dull, unable to eat,
too giddy to sit up, and unable to help crying like a babe, if Stephen left him for a moment;
but he never fell asleep without all the horror and dread of the sentence coming over him.
Like all the boys in London, he had gazed at executions with the sort of curiosity that leads
rustic lads to run to see pigs killed, and now the details came over him in semi-delirium,
as acted out on himself, and he shrieked and struggled in an anguish which was only mitigated
by Stephen's reassurances, caresses, even scoldings.  The other youths, relieved from the apprehension
of death, agreed to regard their detention as a holiday, and not being squeamish, turned the
yard into a playground, and there they certainly made uproar, and played pranks, enough to
justify the preference of the captain for full grown criminals.  But Stephen could not join
them, for Jasper would not spare him for an instant, and he himself, though at first sorely
missing employment and exercise, was growing drowsy and heavy limbed in his cramped life and
the evil atmosphere, even the sick longings for liberty were gradually passing away from him,
so that sometimes he felt as if he had lived here for ages and known no other life, though
no sooner did he lie down to rest, and shut his eyes, than the trees and green glades of the
New Forest rose before him, with all the hollies shining in the summer light, or the gorse
making a sheet of gold.

The time was not in reality so very long.  On the 7th of May, John Lincoln, the broker, who
had incited Canon Beale to preach against the foreigners, was led forth with several others
of the real promoters of the riot to the centre of Cheapside, where Lincoln was put to death,
but orders were brought to respite the rest; and, at the same time, all the armed men were
withdrawn, the City began to breathe, and the women who had been kept within doors to go abroad
again.

The Recorder of London and several aldermen were to meet the King at his manor at Greenwich.
This was the mothers' opportunity.  The civic dignitaries rode in mourning robes, but the wives
and mothers, sweethearts and sisters, every woman who had a youth's life at stake, came together,
took boat, and went down the river, a strange fleet of barges, all containing white caps, and
black gowns and hoods, for all were clad in the most correct and humble citizen's costume.

"Never was such a sight," said Jester Randall, who had taken care to secure a view, and who
had come with his report to the Dragon court. "It might have been Ash Wednesday for the look
of them, when they landed and got into order.  One would think every prentice lad had got at
least three mothers, and four or five aunts and sisters!  I trow, verily, that half of them
came to look on at the other half, and get a sight of Greenwich and the three queens.  However,
be that as it might, not one of them but knew how to open the sluices.  Queen Katharine noted
well what was coming, and she and the Queens of Scotland and France sat in the great chamber
with the doors open.  And immediately there's a knock at the door, and so soon as the usher
opens it, in they come, three and three, every good wife of them with her napkin to her eyes,
and working away with her sobs.  Then Mistress Todd, the barber-surgeon's wife, she spoke for
all, being thought to have the more courtly tongue, having been tirewoman to Queen Mary ere
she went to France.  Verily her husband must have penned the speech for her--for it began right
scholarly, and flowery, with a likening of themselves to the mothers of Bethlehem, (lusty innocents
theirs, I trow!) but ere long the good woman faltered and forgot her part, and broke out `Oh!
madam, you that are a mother yourself for the sake of your own sweet babe, give us back our
sons.' And therewith they all fell on their knees, weeping and wringing their hands, and crying
out, `Mercy, mercy!  For our Blessed Lady's sake, have pity on our children!' till the good
Queen, with the tears running down her cheeks for very ruth, told them that the power was not
in her hands, but the will was for them and their poor sons, and that she would strive so to
plead for them with the King as to win their freedom.  Meantime, there were the aldermen watching
for the King in his chamber of presence, till forth he came, when all fell on their knees,
and the Recorder spake for them, casting all the blame on the vain and light persons who had
made that enormity.  Thereupon what does our Hal but make himself as stern as though he meant
to string them all up in a line.  `Ye ought to wail and be sorry,' said he, `whereas ye say
that substantial persons were not concerned, it appeareth to the contrary. You did wink at
the matter,' quoth he, `and at this time we will grant you neither favour nor goodwill.'  However,
none who knew Hal's eye but could tell that 'twas all very excellent fooling, when he bade
them get to the Cardinal.  Therewith, in came the three queens, hand in hand, with tears in
their eyes, so as they might have been the three queens that bore away King Arthur, and down
they went on their knees, and cried aloud `Dear sir, we who are mothers ourselves, beseech
you to set the hearts at ease of all the poor mothers who are mourning for their sons.' Whereupon,
the door being opened, came in so piteous a sound of wailing and lamentation as our Harry's
name must have been Herod to withstand! `Stand up, Kate,' said he, `stand up, sisters, and
hark in your ear. Not a hair of the silly lads shall be touched, but they must bide lock and
key long enough to teach them and their masters to keep better ward.'  And then when the queens
came back with the good tidings, such a storm of blessings was never heard, laughings and cryings,
and the like, for verily some of the women seemed as distraught for joy as ever they had been
for grief and fear.  Moreover, Mistress Todd, being instructed of her husband, led up Mistress
Hope to Queen Mary, and told her the tale of how her husband's little brother, a mere babe,
lay sick in prison--a mere babe, a suckling as it were--and was like to die there, unless the
sooner delivered, and how our Steve was fool enough to tarry with the poor child, pardoned
though he be.  Then the good lady wept again, and `Good woman,' saith she to Mistress Hope,
`the King will set thy brother free anon.  His wrath is not with babes, nor with lads like
this other of whom thou speakest.'

"So off was she to the King again, and though he and his master pished and pshawed, and said
if one and another were to be set free privily in this sort, there would be none to come and
beg for mercy as a warning to all malapert youngsters to keep within bounds, `Nay, verily,'
quoth I, seeing the moment for shooting a fool's bolt among them, `methinks Master Death will
have been a pick-lock before you are ready for them, and then who will stand to cry mercy?'"

The narrative was broken off short by a cry of jubilee in the court. Workmen, boys, and all
were thronging together, Kit Smallbones' head towering in the midst.  Vehement welcomes seemed
in progress.  "Stephen! Stephen!" shouted Dennet, and flew out of the hail and down the steps.

"The lad himself!" exclaimed the jester, leaping down after her.

"Stephen, the good boy!" said Master Headley, descending more slowly, but not less joyfully.

Yes, Stephen himself it was, who had quietly walked into the court. Master Hope and Master
Todd had brought the order for Jasper's release, had paid the captain's exorbitant fees for
both, and, while the sick boy was carried home in a litter, Stephen had entered the Dragon
court through the gates, as if he were coming home from an errand; though the moment he was
recognised by the little four-year old Smallbones, there had been a general rush and shout
of ecstatic welcome, led by Giles Headley, who fairly threw himself on Stephen's neck, as they
met like comrades after a desperate battle.  Not one was there who did not claim a grasp of
the boy's hand, and who did not pour out welcomes and greetings; while in the midst, the released
captive looked, to say the truth, very spiritless, faded, dusty, nay dirty.  The court seemed
spinning round with him, and the loud welcomes roared in his ears.  He was glad that Dennet
took one hand, and Giles the other, declaring that he must be led to the grandmother instantly.

He muttered something about being in too foul trim to go near her, but Dennet held him fast,
and he was too dizzy to make much resistance.  Old Mrs Headley was better again, though not
able to do much but sit by the fire kept burning to drive away the plague which was always
smouldering in London.

She held out her hands to Stephen, as he knelt down by her.  "Take an old woman's blessing,
my good youth," she said.  "Right glad am I to see thee once more.  Thou wilt not be the worse
for the pains thou hast spent on the little lad, though they have tried thee sorely."

Stephen, becoming somewhat less dazed, tried to fulfil his long- cherished intention of thanking
Dennet for her intercession, but the instant he tried to speak, to his dismay and indignation,
tears choked his voice, and he could do nothing but weep, as if, thought he, his manhood had
been left behind in the jail.

"Vex not thyself," said the old dame, as she saw him struggling with his sobs.  "Thou art worn-out--Giles
here was not half his own man when he came out, nor is he yet.  Nay, beset him not, children.
He should go to his chamber, change these garments, and rest ere supper-time."

Stephen was fain to obey, only murmuring an inquiry for his brother, to which his uncle responded
that if Ambrose were at home, the tidings would send him to the Dragon instantly; but he was
much with his old master, who was preparing to leave England, his work here being ruined.

The jester then took leave, accepting conditionally an invitation to supper.  Master Headley,
Smallbones, and Tibble now knew who he was, but the secret was kept from all the rest of the
household, lest Stephen should be twitted with the connection.

Cold water was not much affected by the citizens of London, but smiths' and armourers' work
entailed a freer use of it than less grimy trades; and a bath and Sunday garments made Stephen
more like himself, though still he felt so weary and depressed that he missed the buoyant joy
of release to which he had been looking forward.

He was sitting on the steps, leaning against the rail, so much tired that he hoped none of
his comrades would notice that he had come out, when Ambrose hurried into the court, having
just heard tidings of his freedom, and was at his side at once.  The two brothers sat together,
leaning against one another as if they had all that they could wish or long for.  They had
not met for more than a week, for Ambrose's finances had not availed to fee the turnkeys to
give him entrance.

"And what art thou doing, Ambrose?" asked Stephen, rousing a little from his lethargy.  "Methought
I heard mine uncle say thine occupation was gone?"

"Even so," replied Ambrose.  "Master Lucas will sail in a week's time to join his brother at
Rotterdam, bearing with him what he hath been able to save out of the havoc.  I wot not if
I shall ever see the good man more."

"I am glad thou dost not go with him," said Stephen, with a hand on his brother's leather-covered
knee.

"I would not put seas between us," returned Ambrose.  "Moreover, though I grieve to lose my
good master, who hath been so scurvily entreated here, yet, Stephen, this trouble and turmoil
hath brought me that which I longed for above all, even to have speech with the Dean of Saint
Paul's."

He then told Stephen how he had brought Dean Colet to administer the last rites to Abenali,
and how that good man had bidden Lucas to take shelter at the Deanery, in the desolation of
his own abode.  This had led to conversation between the Dean and the printer; Lucas, who distrusted
all ecclesiastics, would accept no patronage.  He had a little hoard, buried in the corner
of his stall, which would suffice to carry him to his native home and he wanted no more; but
he had spoken of Ambrose, and the Dean was quite ready to be interested in the youth who had
led him to Abenali.

"He had me to his privy chamber," said Ambrose, "and spake to me as no man hath yet spoken--no,
not even Tibble.  He let me utter all my mind, nay, I never wist before even what mine own
thoughts were till he set them before me--as it were in a mirror."

"Thou wast ever in a harl," said Stephen, drowsily, using the Hampshire word for whirl or entanglement.

"Yea.  On the one side stood all that I had ever believed or learnt before I came hither of
the one true and glorious Mother-Church to whom the Blessed Lord had committed the keys of
His kingdom, through His holy martyrs and priests to give us the blessed host and lead us in
the way of salvation.  And on the other side, I cannot but see the lewd and sinful and worldly
lives of the most part, and hear the lies whereby they amass wealth and turn men from the spirit
of truth and holiness to delude them into believing that wilful sin can be committed without
harm, and that purchase of a parchment is as good as repentance.  That do I see and hear. 
And therewith my master Lucas and Dan Tindall, and those of the new light, declare that all
has been false even from the very outset, and that all the pomp and beauty is but Satan's bait,
and that to believe in Christ alone is all that needs to justify us, casting all the rest aside.
All seemed a mist, and I was swayed hither and thither till the more I read and thought, the
greater was the fog.  And this--I know not whether I told it to yonder good and holy doctor,
or whether he knew it, for his eyes seemed to see into me, and he told me that he had felt
and thought much the same.  But on that one great truth, that faith in the Passion is salvation,
is the Church built, though sinful men have hidden it by their errors and lies as befell before
among the Israelites, whose law, like ours, was divine.  Whatever is entrusted to man, he said,
will become stained, soiled, and twisted, though the power of the Holy Spirit will strive to
renew it.  And such an outpouring of cleansing and renewing power is, he saith, abroad in our
day.  When he was a young man, this good father, so he said, hoped great things, and did his
best to set forth the truth, both at Oxford and here, as indeed he hath ever done, he and the
good Doctor Erasmus, striving to turn men's eyes back to the simplicity of God's Word rather
than to the arguments and deductions of the schoolmen.  And for the abuses of evil priests
that have sprung up, my Lord Cardinal sought the Legatine Commission from our holy father at
Rome to deal with them.  But Dr Colet saith that there are other forces at work, and he doubteth
greatly whether this same cleansing can be done without some great and terrible rending and
upheaving, that may even split the Church as it were asunder--since judgment surely awaiteth
such as will not be reformed.  But, quoth he, `our Mother-Church is God's own Church and I
will abide by her to the end, as the means of oneness with my Lord and Head, and do thou the
same, my son, for thou art like to be more sorely tried than will a frail old elder like me,
who would fain say his Nunc Dimittis, if such be the Lord's will, ere the foundations be cast
down.'"

Ambrose had gone on rehearsing all these words with the absorption of one to whom they were
everything, till it occurred to him to wonder that Stephen had listened to so much with patience
and assent, and then, looking at the position of head and hands, he perceived that his brother
was asleep, and came to a sudden halt.  This roused Stephen to say, "Eh? What?  The Dean, will
he do aught for thee?"

"Yea," said Ambrose, recollecting that there was little use in returning to the perplexities
which Stephen could not enter into.  "He deemed that in this mood of mine, yea, and as matters
now be at the universities, I had best not as yet study there for the priesthood.  But he said
he would commend me to a friend whose life would better show me how the new gives life to the
old than any man he wots of."

"One of thy old doctors in barnacles, I trow," said Stephen.

"Nay, verily.  We saw him t'other night perilling his life to stop the poor crazy prentices,
and save the foreigners.  Dennet and our uncle saw him pleading for them with the King."

"What!  Sir Thomas More?"

"Ay, no other.  He needs a clerk for his law matters, and the Dean said he would speak of me
to him.  He is to sup at the Deanery to-morrow, and I am to be in waiting to see him.  I shall
go with a lighter heart now that thou art beyond the clutches of the captain of Newgate."

"Speak no more of that!" said Stephen, with a shudder.  "Would that I could forget it!"

In truth Stephen's health had suffered enough to change the bold, high- spirited, active lad,
so that he hardly knew himself.  He was quite incapable of work all the next day, and Mistress
Headley began to dread that he had brought home jail-fever, and insisted on his being inspected
by the barber-surgeon, Todd, who proceeded to bleed the patient, in order, as he said, to carry
off the humours contracted in the prison. He had done the same by Jasper Hope, and by Giles,
but he followed the treatment up with better counsel, namely, that the lads should all be sent
out of the City to some farm where they might eat curds and whey, until their strength should
be restored.  Thus they would be out of reach of the sweating sickness which was already in
some of the purlieus of Saint Katharine's Docks, and must be specially dangerous in their lowered
condition.

Master Hope came in just after this counsel had been given.  He had a sister married to the
host of a large prosperous inn near Windsor, and he proposed to send not only Jasper but Stephen
thither, feeling how great a debt of gratitude he owed to the lad.  Remembering well the good
young Mistress Streatfield, and knowing that the Antelope was a large old house of excellent
repute, where she often lodged persons of quality attending on the court or needing country
air, Master Headley added Giles to the party at his own expense, and wished also to send Dennet
for greater security, only neither her grandmother nor Mrs Hope could leave home.

It ended, however, in Perronel Randall being asked to take charge of the whole party, including
Aldonza.  That little damsel had been in a manner confided to her both by the Dean of Saint
Paul's and by Tibble Steelman--and indeed the motherly woman, after nursing and soothing her
through her first despair at the loss of her father, was already loving her heartily, and was
glad to give her a place in the home which Ambrose was leaving on being made an attendant on
Sir Thomas More.

For the interview at the Deanery was satisfactory.  The young man, after a good supper, enlivened
by the sweet singing of some chosen pupils of Saint Paul's school, was called up to where the
Dean sat, and with him, the man of the peculiarly sweet countenance, with the noble and deep
expression, yet withal, something both tender and humorous in it.

They made him tell his whole life, and asked many questions about Abenali, specially about
the fragment of Arabic scroll which had been clutched in his hand even as he lay dying.  They
much regretted never having known of his existence till too late.  "Jewels lie before the unheeding!"
said More.  Then Ambrose was called on to show a specimen of his own penmanship, and to write
from Sir Thomas's dictation in English and in Latin.  The result was that he was engaged to
act as one of the clerks Sir Thomas employed in his occupations alike as lawyer, statesman,
and scholar.

"Methinks I have seen thy face before," said Sir Thomas, looking keenly at him.  "I have beheld
those black eyes, though with a different favour?"

Ambrose blushed deeply.  "Sir, it is but honest to tell you that my mother's brother is jester
to my Lord Cardinal."

"Quipsome Hal Merriman!  Patch as the King calleth him!" exclaimed Sir Thomas.  "A man I have
ever thought wore the motley rather from excess, than infirmity, of wit."

"Nay, sir, so please you, it was his good heart that made him a jester," said Ambrose, explaining
the story of Randall and his Perronel in a few words, which touched the friends a good deal,
and the Dean remembered that she was in charge of the little Moresco girl.  He lost nothing
by dealing thus openly with his new master, who promised to keep his secret for him, then gave
him handsel of his salary, and bade him collect his possessions, and come to take up his abode
in the house of the More family at Chelsea.

He would still often see his brother in the intervals of attending Sir Thomas to the courts
of law, but the chief present care was to get the boys into purer air, both to expedite their
recovery and to ensure them against being dragged into the penitential company who were to
ask for their lives on the 22nd of May, consisting of such of the prisoners who could still
stand or go--for jail-fever was making havoc among them, and some of the better-conditioned
had been released by private interest. The remainder, not more than half of the original two
hundred and seventy-eight, were stripped to their shirts, had halters hung round their necks,
and then, roped together as before, were driven through the streets to Westminster, where the
King sat enthroned.  There, looking utterly miserable, they fell on their knees before him,
and received his pardon for their misdemeanours.  They returned to their masters, and so ended
that Ill May day, which was the longer remembered because one Churchill, a ballad-monger in
Saint Paul's Churchyard, indited a poem on it, wherein he swelled the number of prentices to
two thousand, and of the victims to two hundred.  Will Wherry, who escaped from among the prisoners
very forlorn, was recommended by Ambrose to the work of a carter at the Dragon, which he much
preferred to printing.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

AT THE ANTELOPE.
  Gray.

Master Hope took all the guests by boat to Windsor, and very soon the little party at the Antelope
was in a state of such perfect felicity as became a proverb with them all their lives afterwards.
It was an inn wherein to take one's ease, a large hostel full of accommodation for man and
horse, with a big tapestried room of entertainment below, where meals were taken, with an oriel
window with a view of the Round Tower, and above it a still more charming one, known as the
Red Rose, because one of the Dukes of Somerset had been wont to lodge there.  The walls were
tapestried with the story of Saint Genoveva of Brabant, fresh and new on Mrs Streatfield's
marriage; there was a huge bed with green curtains of that dame's own work, where one might
have said:--

  "Above, below, the rose of snow,
  Twined with her blushing foe we spread."

so as to avoid all offence.  There was also a cupboard or sideboard of the choicer plate belonging
to the establishment, and another awmry containing appliances for chess and backgammon, likewise
two large chairs, several stools, and numerous chests.

This apartment was given up to Mistress Randall and the two girls, subject however to the chance
of turning out for any very distinguished guests.  The big bed held all three, and the chamber
was likewise their sitting-room, though they took their meals down stairs, and joined the party
in the common room in the evening whenever they were not out of doors, unless there were guests
whom Perronel did not think desirable company for her charges.  Stephen and Giles were quartered
in a small room known as the Feathers, smelling so sweet of lavender and woodruff that Stephen
declared it carried him back to the Forest.  Mrs Streatfield would have taken Jasper to tend
among her children, but the boy could not bear to be without Stephen, and his brother advised
her to let it be so, and not try to make a babe of him again.

The guest-chamber below stairs opened at one end into the innyard, a quadrangle surrounded
with stables, outhouses, and offices, with a gallery running round to give access to the chambers
above, where, when the Court was at Windsor, two or three great men's trains of retainers might
be crowded together.

One door, however, in the side of the guest-chamber had steps down to an orchard, full of apple
and pear trees in their glory of pink bud and white blossom, borders of roses, gillyflowers,
and lilies of the valley running along under the grey walls.  There was a broad space of grass
near the houses, whence could be seen the Round Tower of the Castle looking down in protection,
while the background of the view was filled up with a mass of the foliage of Windsor forest,
in the spring tints.

Stephen never thought of its being beautiful, but he revelled in the refreshment of anything
so like home, and he had nothing to wish for but his brother, and after all he was too contented
and happy even to miss him much.

Master Streatfield was an elderly man, fat and easy-going, to whom talking seemed rather a
trouble than otherwise, though he was very good- natured.  His wife was a merry, lively, active
woman, who had been handed over to him by her father like a piece of Flanders cambric, but
who never seemed to regret her position, managed men and maids, farm and guests, kept perfect
order without seeming to do so, and made great friends with Perronel, never guessing that she
had been one of the strolling company, who, nine or ten years before, had been refused admission
to the Antelope, then crowded with my Lord of Oxford's followers.

At first, it was enough for the prentices to spend most of their time in lying about on the
grass under the trees.  Giles, who was in the best condition, exerted himself so far as to
try to learn chess from Aldonza, who seemed to be a proficient in the game, and even defeated
the good- natured burly parson who came every evening to the Antelope, to imbibe slowly a tankard
of ale, and hear any news there stirring.

She and Giles were content to spend hours over her instructions in chess on that pleasant balcony
in the shade of the house.  Though really only a year older than Dennet Headley, she looked
much more, and was so in all her ways.  It never occurred to her to run childishly wild with
delight in the garden and orchard as did Dennet, who, with little five- years-old Will Streatfield
for her guide and playfellow, rushed about hither and thither, making acquaintance with hens
and chickens, geese and goslings, seeing cows and goats milked, watching butter churned, bringing
all manner of animal and vegetable curiosities to Stephen to be named and explained, and enjoying
his delight in them, a delight which after the first few days became more and more vigorous.

By and by there was punting and fishing on the river, strawberry gathering in the park, explorations
of the forest, expeditions of all sorts and kinds, Jasper being soon likewise well enough to
share in them.  The boys and girls were in a kind of fairy land under Perronel's kind wing,
the wandering habits of whose girlhood made the freedom of the country far more congenial to
her than it would have been to any regular Londoner.

Stephen was the great oracle, of course, as to the deer respectfully peeped at in the park,
or the squirrels, the hares and rabbits, in the forest, and the inhabitants of the stream above
or below.  It was he who secured and tamed the memorials of their visit--two starlings for
Dennet and Aldonza.  The birds were to be taught to speak, and to do wonders of all kinds,
but Aldonza's bird was found one morning dead, and Giles consoled her by the promise of something
much bigger, and that would talk much better.  Two days after he brought her a young jackdaw.
Aldonza clasped her hands and admired its glossy back and queer blue eye, and was in transports
when it uttered something between "Jack" and "good lack."  But Dennet looked in scorn at it,
and said, "That's a bird tamed already.  He didn't catch it.  He only bought it!  I would have
none such!  An ugsome great thieving bird!"

"Nay now, Mistress Dennet," argued Perronel.  "Thou hast thy bird, and Alice has lost hers.
It is not meet to grudge it to her."

"I!  Grudge it to her!" said Dennet, with a toss of the head.  "I grudge her nought from Giles
Headley, so long as I have my Goldspot that Stephen climbed the wall for, his very self."

And Dennet turned majestically away with her bird--Goldspot only in the future--perched on
her finger; while Perronel shook her head bodingly.

But they were all children still, and Aldonza was of a nature that was slow to take offence,
while it was quite true that Dennet had been free from jealousy of the jackdaw, and only triumphant
in Stephen's prowess and her own starling.

The great pleasure of all was a grand stag-hunt, got up for the diversion of the French ambassadors,
who had come to treat for the espousals of the infant Princess Mary with the baby "Dolphyne."
Probably these illustrious personages did not get half the pleasure out of it that the Antelope
party had.  Were they not, by special management of a yeoman pricker who had recognised in
Stephen a kindred spirit, and had a strong admiration for Mistress Randall, placed where there
was the best possible view of hunters, horses, and hounds, lords and ladies, King and ambassadors,
in their gorgeous hunting trim?  Did not Stephen, as a true verdurer's son, interpret every
note on the horn, and predict just what was going to happen, to the edification of all his
hearers? And when the final rush took place, did not the prentices, with their gowns rolled
up, dart off headlong in pursuit?  Dennet entertained some hope that Stephen would again catch
some runaway steed, or come to the King's rescue in some way or other, but such chances did
not happen every day.  Nay, Stephen did not even follow up the chase to the death, but left
Giles to do that, turning back forsooth because that little Jasper thought fit to get tired
and out of breath, and could not find his way back alone.  Dennet was quite angry with Stephen
and turned her back on him, when Giles came in all glorious, at having followed up staunchly
all day, having seen the fate of the poor stag, and having even beheld the King politely hand
the knife to Monsieur de Montmorency to give the first stroke to the quarry!

That was the last exploit.  There was to be a great tilting-match in honour of the betrothal,
and Master Alderman Headley wanted his apprentices back again, and having been satisfied by
a laborious letter from Dennet, sent per carrier, that they were in good health, despatched
orders by the same means, that they were to hire horses at the Antelope and return--Jasper
coming back at the same time, though his aunt would fain have kept him longer.

Women on a journey almost always rode double, and the arrangement came under debate.  Perronel,
well accustomed to horse, ass, or foot, undertook to ride behind the child, as she called Jasper,
who--as a born Londoner--knew nothing of horses, though both the other prentices did. Giles,
who, in right of his name, kindred, and expectations, always held himself a sort of master,
declared that, "it was more fitting that Stephen should ride before Mistress Dennet."  And
to this none of the party made any objection, except that Perronel privately observed to him
that she should have thought he would have preferred the company of his betrothed.

"I shall have quite enough of her by and by," returned Giles; then adding, "She is a good little
wench, but it is more for her honour that her father's servant should ride before her."

Perronel held her tongue, and they rode merrily back to London, and astonished their several
homes by the growth and healthful looks of the young people.  Even Giles was grown, though
he did not like to be told so, and was cherishing the down on his chin.  But the most rapid
development had been in Aldonza, or Alice, as Perronel insisted on calling her to suit the
ears of her neighbours.  The girl was just reaching the borderland of maidenhood, which came
all the sooner to one of southern birth and extraction, when the great change took her from
being her father's childish darling to be Perronel's companion and assistant.  She had lain
down on that fatal May Eve a child, she rose in the little house by the Temple Gardens, a maiden,
and a very lovely one, with delicate, refined, beautifully cut features of a slightly aquiline
cast, a bloom on her soft brunette cheek, splendid dark liquid eyes shaded by long black lashes,
under brows as regular and well arched as her Eastern cousins could have made them artificially,
magnificent black hair, that could hardly be contained in the close white cap, and a lithe
beautiful figure on which the plainest dress sat with an Eastern grace. Perronel's neighbours
did not admire her.  They were not sure whether she were most Saracen, gipsy, or Jew.  In fact,
she was as like Rachel at the well as her father had been to a patriarch, and her descent was
of the purest Saracen lineage, but a Christian Saracen was an anomaly the London mind could
not comprehend, and her presence in the family tended to cast suspicion that Master Randall
himself, with his gipsy eyes, and mysterious comings and goings, must have some strange connections.
For this, however, Perronel cared little.  She had made her own way for many years past, and
had won respect and affection by many good offices to her neighbours, one of whom had taken
her laundry work in her absence.

Aldonza was by no means indocile or incapable.  She shared in Perronel's work without reluctance,
making good use of her slender, dainty brown fingers, whether in cooking, household work, washing,
ironing, plaiting, making or mending the stiff lawn collars and cuffs in which her hostess's
business lay.  There was nothing that she would not do when asked, or when she saw that it
would save trouble to good mother Perronel, of whom she was very fond, and she seemed serene
and contented, never wanting to go abroad; but she was very silent, and Perronel declared herself
never to have seen any living woman so perfectly satisfied to do nothing.  The good dame herself
was industrious, not only from thrift but from taste, and if not busy in her vocation or in
household business, was either using her distaff or her needle, or chatting with her neighbours--often
doing both at once; but though Aldonza could spin, sew, and embroider admirably, and would
do so at the least request from her hostess, it was always a sort of task, and she never seemed
so happy as when seated on the floor, with her dark eyes dreamily fixed on the narrow window,
where hung her jackdaw's cage, and the beads of her rosary passing through her fingers.  At
first Mistress Randall thought she was praying, but by and by came to the conviction that most
of the time, "the wench was bemused."  There was nothing to complain of in one so perfectly
gentle and obedient, and withal, modest and devout; but the good woman, after having for some
time given her the benefit of the supposition that she was grieving for her father, began to
wonder at such want of activity and animation, and to think that on the whole Jack was the
more talkative companion.

Aldonza had certainly not taught him the phrases he was so fond of repeating.  Giles Headley
had undertaken his education, and made it a reason for stealing down to the Temple many an
evening after work was done, declaring that birds never learnt so well as after dark. Moreover,
he had possessed himself of a chess board, and insisted that Aldonza should carry on her instructions
in the game; he brought her all his Holy Cross Day gain of nuts, and he used all his blandishments
to persuade Mrs Randall to come and see the shooting at the popinjay, at Mile End.

All this made the good woman uneasy.  Her husband was away, for the dread of sweating sickness
had driven the Court from London, and she could only take counsel with Tibble Steelman.  It
was Hallowmas Eve, and Giles had been the bearer of an urgent invitation from Dennet to her
friend Aldonza to come and join the diversions of the evening.  There was a large number of
young folk in the hall--Jasper Hope among them-- mostly contemporaries of Dennet, and almost
children, all keen upon the sports of the evening, namely, a sort of indoor quintain, where
the revolving beam was decorated with a lighted candle at one end, and at the other an apple
to be caught at by the players with their mouths, their hands being tied behind them.

Under all the uproarious merriment that each attempt occasioned, Tibble was about to steal
off to his own chamber and his beloved books, when, as he backed out of the group of spectators,
he was arrested by Mistress Randall, who had made her way into the rear of the party at the
same time.

"Can I have a word with you, privily, Master Steelman?" she asked.

Unwillingly he muttered, "Yea, so please you;" and they retreated to a window at the dark end
of the hall, where Perronel began--

"The alderman's daughter is contracted to young Giles, her kinsman, is she not?"

"Not as yet in form, but by the will of the parents," returned Tibble, impatiently, as he thought
of the half-hour's reading which he was sacrificing to woman's gossip.

"An it be so," returned Perronel, "I would fain--were I Master Headley-- that he spent not
so many nights in gazing at mine Alice."

"Forbid him the house, good dame."

"Easier spoken than done," returned Perronel.  "Moreover, 'tis better to let the matter, such
as it is, be open in my sight than to teach them to run after one another stealthily, whereby
worse might ensue."

"Have they spoken then to one another?" asked Tibble, beginning to take alarm.

"I trow not.  I deem they know not yet what draweth them together."

"Pish, they are mere babes!" quoth Tib, hoping he might cast it off his mind.

"Look!" said Perronel; and as they stood on the somewhat elevated floor of the bay window,
they could look over the heads of the other spectators to the seats where the young girls sat.

Aldonza's beautiful and peculiar contour of head and face rose among the round chubby English
faces like a jessamine among daisies, and at that moment she was undertaking, with an exquisite
smile, the care of the gown that Giles laid at her feet, ere making his venture.

"There!" said Perronel.  "Mark that look on her face!  I never see it save for that same youngster.
The children are simple and guileless thus far, it may be.  I dare be sworn that she is, but
they wot not where they will be led on."

"You are right, dame; you know best, no doubt," said Tib, in helpless perplexity.  "I wot nothing
of such gear.  What would you do?"

"Have the maid wedded at once, ere any harm come of it," returned Perronel promptly.  "She
will make a good wife--there will be no complaining of her tongue, and she is well instructed
in all good housewifery."

"To whom then would you give her?" asked Tibble.

"Ay, that's the question.  Comely and good she is, but she is outlandish, and I fear me 'twould
take a handsome portion to get her dark skin and Moorish blood o'erlooked.  Nor hath she aught,
poor maid, save yonder gold and pearl earrings, and a cross of gold that she says her father
bade her never part with."

"I pledged my word to her father," said Tibble, "that I would have a care of her.  I have not
cared to hoard, having none to come after me, but if a matter of twenty or five-and-twenty
marks would avail--"

"Wherefore not take her yourself?" said Perronel, as he stood aghast. "She is a maid of sweet
obedient conditions, trained by a scholar even like yourself.  She would make your chamber
fair and comfortable, and tend you dutifully."

"Whisht, good woman.  'Tis too dark to see, or you could not speak of wedlock to such as I.
Think of the poor maid!"

"That is all folly!  She would soon know you for a better husband than one of those young feather-pates,
who have no care but of themselves."

"Nay, mistress," said Tibble, gravely, "your advice will not serve here. To bring that fair
young wench hither, to this very court, mind you, with a mate loathly to behold as I be, and
with the lad there ever before her, would be verily to give place to the devil."

"But you are the best sword-cutler in London.  You could make a living without service."

"I am bound by too many years of faithful kindness to quit my master or my home at the Dragon,"
said Tibble.  "Nay, that will not serve, good friend."

"Then what can be done?" asked Perronel, somewhat in despair.  "There are the young sparks
at the Temple.  One or two of them are already beginning to cast eyes at her, so that I dare
not let her help me carry home my basket, far less go alone.  'Tis not the wench's fault. 
She shrinks from men's eyes more than any maid I ever saw, but if she bide long with me, I
wot not what may come of it.  There be rufflers there who would not stick to carry her off!"

Tibble stood considering, and presently said, "Mayhap the Dean might aid thee in this matter.
He is free of hand and kind of heart, and belike he would dower the maid, and find an honest
man to wed her."

Perronel thought well of the suggestion, and decided that after the mass on All Soul's Day,
and the general visiting of the graves of kindred, she would send Aldonza home with Dennet,
whom they were sure to meet in the Pardon Churchyard, since her mother, as well as Abenali
and Martin Fulford lay there; and herself endeavour to see Dean Colet, who was sure to be at
home, as he was hardly recovered from an attack of the prevalent disorder.

Then Tibble escaped, and Perronel drew near to the party round the fire, where the divination
of the burning of nuts was going on, but not successfully, since no pair hitherto put in would
keep together. However, the next contribution was a snail, which had been captured on the wall,
and was solemnly set to crawl on the hearth by Dennet, "to see whether it would trace a G or an H."

However, the creature proved sullen or sleepy, and no jogging of hands, no enticing, would
induce it to crawl an inch, and the alderman, taking his daughter on his knee, declared that
it was a wise beast, who knew her hap was fixed.  Moreover, it was time for the rere supper,
for the serving-men with the lanterns would be coming for the young folk.

London entertainments for women or young people had to finish very early unless they had a
strong escort to go home with, for the streets were far from safe after dark.  Giles's great
desire to convoy her home, added to Perronel's determination, and on All Souls' Day, while
knells were ringing from every church in London, she roused Aldonza from her weeping devotions
at her father's grave, and led her to Dennet, who had just finished her round of prayers at
the grave of the mother she had never known, under the protection of her nurse, and two or
three of the servants.  The child, who had thought little of her mother, while her grandmother
was alert, and supplied the tenderness and care she needed, was beginning to yearn after counsel
and sympathy, and to wonder, as she told her beads, what might have been, had that mother lived.
She took Aldonza's hand, and the two girls threaded their way out of the crowded churchyard
together, while Perronel betook herself to the Deanery of Saint Paul's.

Good Colet was always accessible to the meanest, but he had been very ill, and the porter had
some doubts about troubling him respecting the substantial young matron whose trim cap and
bodice, and full petticoats, showed no tokens of distress.  However, when she begged him to
take in her message, that she prayed the Dean to listen to her touching the child of the old
man who was slain on May Eve, he consented; and she was at once admitted to an inner chamber,
where Colet, wrapped in a gown lined with lambskin, sat by the fire, looking so wan and feeble
that it went to the good woman's heart, and she began by an apology for troubling him.

"Heed not that, good dame," said the Dean, courteously, "but sit thee down and let me hear
of the poor child."

"Ah, reverend sir, would that she were still a child--" and Perronel proceeded to tell her
difficulties, adding, that if the Dean could of his goodness promise one of the dowries which
were yearly given to poor maidens of good character, she would inquire among her gossips for
some one to marry the girl.  She secretly hoped he would take the hint and immediately portion
Aldonza himself perhaps likewise find the husband. And she was disappointed that he only promised
to consider the matter and let her hear from him.  She went back and told Tibble that his device
was nought, an old scholar with one foot in the grave knew less of women than even he did!

However it was only four days later, that, as Mrs Randall was hanging out her collars to dry,
there came up to her from the Temple stairs a figure whom for a moment she hardly knew, so
different was the long, black garb, and short gown of the lawyer's clerk from the shabby old
green suit that all her endeavours had not been able to save from many a stain of printer's
ink.  It was only as he exclaimed, "Good aunt, I am fain to see thee here!" that she answered,
"What, thou, Ambrose!  What a fine fellow thou art!  Truly I knew not thou wast of such good
mien! Thou thrivest at Chelsea!"

"Who would not thrive there?" said Ambrose.  "Nay, aunt, tarry a little, I have a message for
thee that I would fain give before we go in to Aldonza."

"From his reverence the Dean?  Hath he bethought himself of her?"

"Ay, that hath he done," said Ambrose.  "He is not the man to halt when good may be done. 
What doth he do, since it seems thou hadst speech of him, but send for Sir Thomas More, then
sitting at Westminster, to come and see him as soon as the Court brake up, and I attended my
master. They held council together, and by and by they sent for me to ask me of what conditions
and breeding the maid was, and what I knew of her father?"

"Will they wed her to thee?  That were rarely good, so they gave thee some good office!" cried
his aunt.

"Nay, nay," said Ambrose.  "I have much to learn and understand ere I think of a wife--if ever.
Nay!  But when they had heard all I could tell them, they looked at one another, and the Dean
said, `The maid is no doubt of high blood in her own land--scarce a mate for a London butcher
or currier.'"

"`It were matching an Arab mare with a costard monger's colt,' said my master, `or Angelica
with Ralph Roister-Doister.'"

"I'd like to know what were better for the poor outlandish maid than to give her to some honest
man," put in Perronel.

"The end of it was," said Ambrose, "that Sir Thomas said he was to be at the palace the next
day, and he would strive to move the Queen to take her countrywoman into her service.  Yea,
and so he did, but though Queen Katharine was moved by hearing of a fatherless maid of Spain,
and at first spake of taking her to wait on herself, yet when she heard the maid's name, and
that she was of Moorish blood, she would none of her. She said that heresy lurked in them all,
and though Sir Thomas offered that the Dean or the Queen's own chaplain should question her
on the faith, it was all lost labour.  I heard him tell the Dean as much, and thus it is that
they bade me come for thee, and for the maid, take boat, and bring you down to Chelsea, where
Sir Thomas will let her be bred up to wait on his little daughters till he can see what best
may be done for her.  I trow his spirit was moved by the Queen's hardness!  I heard the Dean
mutter, `Et venient ab Oriente et Occidente.'"

Perronel looked alarmed.  "The Queen deemed her heretic in grain!  Ah! She is a good wench,
and of kind conditions.  I would have no ill befall her, but I am glad to be rid of her.  Sir
Thomas--he is a wise man, ay, and a married man, with maidens of his own, and he may have more
wit in the business than the rest of his kind.  Be the matter instant?"

"Methinks Sir Thomas would have it so, since this being a holy day, the courts be not sitting,
and he is himself at home, so that he can present the maid to his lady.  And that makes no
small odds."

"Yea, but what the lady is makes the greater odds to the maid, I trow," said Perronel anxiously.

"Fear not on that score.  Dame Alice More is of kindly conditions, and will be good to any
whom her lord commends to her; and as to the young ladies, never saw I any so sweet or so wise
as the two elder ones, specially Mistress Margaret."

"Well-a-day!  What must be must!" philosophically observed Perronel. "Now I have my wish, I
could mourn over it.  I am loth to part with the wench; and my man, when he comes home, will
make an outcry for his pretty Ally; but 'tis best so.  Come, Alice, girl, bestir thyself. Here's
preferment for thee."

Aldonza raised her great soft eyes in slow wonder, and when she had heard what was to befall
her, declared that she wanted no advancement, and wished only to remain with mother Perronel.
Nay, she clung to the kind woman, beseeching that she might not be sent away from the only
motherly tenderness she had ever known, and declaring that she would work all day and all night
rather than leave her; but the more reluctance she showed, the more determined was Perronel,
and she could not but submit to her fate, only adding one more entreaty that she might take
her jackdaw, which was now a spruce grey-headed bird.  Perronel said it would be presumption
in a waiting-woman, but Ambrose declared that at Chelsea there were all manner of beasts and
birds, beloved by the children and by their father himself, and that he believed the daw would
be welcome.  At any rate, if the lady of the house objected to it, it could return with Mistress
Randall.

Perronel hurried the few preparations, being afraid that Giles might take advantage of the
holiday to appear on the scene, and presently Aldonza was seated in the boat, making no more
lamentations after she found that her fate was inevitable, but sitting silent, with downcast
head, now and then brushing away a stray tear as it stole down under her long eyelashes.

Meantime Ambrose, hoping to raise her spirits, talked to his aunt of the friendly ease and
kindliness of the new home, where he was evidently as thoroughly happy as it was in his nature
to be.  He was much, in the position of a barrister's clerk, superior to that of the mere servants,
but inferior to the young gentlemen of larger means, though not perhaps of better birth, who
had studied law regularly, and aspired to offices or to legal practice.

But though Ambrose was ranked with the three or four other clerks, his functions had more relation
to Sir Thomas's literary and diplomatic avocations than his legal ones.  From Lucas Hansen
he had learnt Dutch and French, and he was thus available for copying and translating foreign
correspondence.  His knowledge of Latin and smattering of Greek enabled him to be employed
in copying into a book some of the inestimable letters of Erasmus which arrived from time to
time, and Sir Thomas promoted his desire to improve himself, and had requested Mr Clements,
the tutor of the children of the house, to give him weekly lessons in Latin and Greek.

Sir Thomas had himself pointed out to him books calculated to settle his mind on the truth
and catholicity of the Church, and had warned him against meddling with the fiery controversial
tracts which, smuggled in often through Lucas's means, had set his mind in commotion.  And
for the present at least beneath the shadow of the great man's intelligent devotion, Ambrose's
restless spirit was tranquil.

Of course, he did not explain his state of mind to his aunt, but she gathered enough to be
well content, and tried to encourage Aldonza, when at length they landed near Chelsea Church,
and Ambrose led the way to an extensive pleasaunce or park, full of elms and oaks, whose yellow
leaves were floating like golden rain in the sunshine.

Presently children's voices guided them to a large chestnut tree.  "Lo you now, I hear Mistress
Meg's voice, and where she is, his honour will ever be," said Ambrose.

And sure enough, among a group of five girls and one boy, all between fourteen and nine years
old, was the great lawyer, knocking down the chestnuts with a long pole, while the young ones
flew about picking up the burrs from the grass, exclaiming joyously when they found a full one.

Ambrose explained that of the young ladies, one was Mistress Middleton, Lady More's daughter
by a former marriage, another a kinswoman. Perronel was for passing by unnoticed; but Ambrose
knew better; and Sir Thomas, leaning on the pole, called out, "Ha, my Birkenholt, a forester
born, knowst thou any mode of bringing down yonder chestnuts, which being the least within
reach, seem in course the meetest of all."

"I would I were my brother, your honour," said Ambrose, "then would I climb the tree."

"Thou shouldst bring him one of these days," said Sir Thomas.  "But thou hast instead brought
us a fair maid.  See, Meg, yonder is the poor young girl who lost her father on Ill May day.
Lead her on and make her good cheer, while I speak to this good dame."

Margaret More, a slender, dark-eyed girl of thirteen, went forward with a peculiar gentle grace
to the stranger, saying, "Welcome, sweet maid! I hope we shall make thee happy," and seeing
the mournful countenance, she not only took Aldonza's hand, but kissed her cheek.

Sir Thomas had exchanged a word or two with Perronel, when there was a cry from the younger
children, who had detected the wicker cage which Perronel was trying to keep in the background.

"A daw! a daw!" was the cry.  "Is't for us?"

"Oh, mistress," faltered Aldonza, "'tis mine--there was one who tamed it for me, and I promised
ever to keep it, but if the good knight and lady forbid it, we will send it back."

"Nay now, John, Cicely," was Margaret saying, "'tis her own bird!  Wot ye not our father will
let us take nought of them that come to him? Yea, Al-don-za--is not that thy name?--I am sure
my father will have thee keep it."

She led up Aldonza, making the request for her.  Sir Thomas smiled.

"Keep thy bird?  Nay, that thou shalt.  Look at him, Meg, is he not in fit livery for a lawyer's
house?  Mark his trim legs, sable doublet and hose, and grey hood--and see, he hath the very
eye of a councillor seeking for suits, as he looketh at the chestnuts John holdeth to him.
I warrant he hath a tongue likewise.  Canst plead for thy dinner, bird?"

"I love Giles!" uttered the black beak, to the confusion and indignation of Perronel.

The perverse bird had heard Giles often dictate this avowal, but had entirely refused to repeat
it, till, stimulated by the new surroundings, it had for the first time uttered it.

"Ah! thou foolish daw!  Crow that thou art!  Had I known thou hadst such a word in thy beak,
I'd have wrung thy neck sooner than have brought thee," muttered Perronel.  "I had best take
thee home without more ado."

It was too late, however, the children were delighted, and perfectly willing that Aldonza should
own the bird, so they might hear it speak, and thus the introduction was over.  Aldonza and
her daw were conveyed to Dame Alice More, a stout, good-tempered woman, who had too many dependents
about her house to concern herself greatly about the introduction of another.

And thus Aldonza was installed in the long, low, two-storied red house which was to be her
place of home-like service.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

CLOTH OF GOLD ON THE SEAMY SIDE.

  "Then you lost
  The view of earthly glory men might say
  Till this time pomp was single; but now married
  To one above itself."
  Shakespeare.

If Giles Headley murmured at Aldonza's removal, it was only to Perronel, and that discreet
woman kept it to herself.

In the summer of 1519 he was out of his apprenticeship, and though Dennet was only fifteen,
it was not uncommon for brides to be even younger.  However, the autumn of that year was signalised
by a fresh outbreak of the sweating sickness, apparently a sort of influenza, and no festivities
could be thought of.  The King and Queen kept at a safe distance from London, and escaped,
so did the inmates of the pleasant house at Chelsea; but the Cardinal, who, as Lord Chancellor,
could not entirely absent himself from Westminster, was four times attacked by it, and Dean
Colet, a far less robust man, had it three times, and sank at last under it.  Sir Thomas More
went to see his beloved old friend, and knowing Ambrose's devotion, let the young man be his
attendant.  Nor could those who saw the good man ever forget his peaceful farewells, grieving
only for the old mother who had lived with him in the Deanery, and in the ninetieth year of
her age, thus was bereaved of the last of her twenty-one children.  For himself, he was thankful
to be taken away from the evil times he already beheld threatening his beloved Saint Paul's,
as well as the entire Church both in England and abroad; looking back with a sad, sweet smile
to the happy Oxford days, when he, with More and Erasmus:

  "Strained the watchful eye
  If chance the golden hours were nigh
  By youthful hope seen gleaming round her walls."

"But," said he, as he laid his hand in blessing for the last time on Ambrose's head, "let men
say what they will, do thou cling fast to the Church, nor let thyself be swept away.  There
are sure promises to her, and grace is with her to purify herself, even though it be obscured
for a time.  Be not of little faith, but believe that Christ is with us in the ship, though
He seem to be asleep."

He spoke as much to his friend as to the youth, and there can be no doubt that this consideration
was the restraining force with many who have been stigmatised as half-hearted Reformers, because
though they loved truth, they feared to lose unity.

He was a great loss at that especial time, as a restraining power, trusted by the innovators,
and a personal friend both of King and Cardinal, and his preaching and catechising were sorely
missed at Saint Paul's.

Tibble Steelman, though thinking he did not go far enough, deplored him deeply; but Tibble
himself was laid by for many days.  The epidemic went through the Dragon court, though some
had it lightly, and only two young children actually died of it.  It laid a heavy hand on Tibble,
and as his distaste for women rendered his den almost inaccessible to Bet Smallbones, who looked
after most of the patients, Stephen Birkenholt, whose nursing capacities had been developed
in Newgate, spent his spare hours in attending him, sat with him in the evenings, slept on
a pallet by his side, carried him his meals and often administered them, and finally pulled
him through the illness and its effects, which left him much broken and never likely to be
the same man again.

Old Mistress Headley, who was already failing, did not have the actual disease severely, but
she never again left her bed, and died just after Christmas, sinking slowly away with little
pain, and her memory having failed from the first.

Household affairs had thus slipped so gradually into Dennet's hands that no change of government
was perceptible, except that the keys hung at the maiden's girdle.  She had grown out of the
child during this winter of trouble, and was here, there, and everywhere, the busy nurse and
housewife, seldom pausing to laugh or play except with her father, and now and then to chat
with her old friend and playfellow, Kit Smallbones. Her childish freedom of manner had given
way to grave discretion, not to say primness, in her behaviour to her father's guests, and
even the apprentices.  It was, of course, the unconscious reaction of the maidenly spirit,
aware that she had nothing but her own modesty to protect her.  She was on a small scale, with
no pretensions to beauty, but with a fresh, honest, sensible young face, a clear skin, and
dark eyes that could be very merry when she would let them, and her whole air and dress were
trimness itself, with an inclination to the choicest materials permitted to an alderman's daughter.

Things were going on so smoothly that the alderman was taken by surprise when all the good
wives around began to press on him that it was incumbent on him to lose no time in marrying
his daughter to her cousin, if not before Lent, yet certainly in the Easter holidays.

Dennet looked very grave thereon.  Was it not over soon after the loss of the good grandmother?
And when her father said, as the gossips had told him, that she and Giles need only walk quietly
down some morning to Saint Faith's and plight their troth, she broke out into her girlish wilful
manner, "Would she be married at all without a merry wedding? No, indeed!  She would not have
the thing done in a corner!  What was the use of her being wedded, and having to consort with
the tedious old wives instead of the merry wenches?  Could she not guide the house, and rule
the maids, and get in the stores, and hinder waste, and make the pasties, and brew the possets?
Had her father found the crust hard, or missed his roasted crab, or had any one blamed her
for want of discretion?  Nay, as to that, she was like to be more discreet as she was, with
only her good old father to please, than with a husband to plague her."

On the other hand, Giles's demeanour was rather that of one prepared for the inevitable than
that of an eager bridegroom; and when orders began to pour in for accoutrements of unrivalled
magnificence for the King and the gentlemen who were to accompany him to Ardres, there to meet
the young King of France just after Whitsuntide, Dennet was the first to assure her father
that there would be no time to think of weddings till all this was over, especially as some
of the establishment would have to be in attendance to repair casualties at the jousts.

At this juncture there arrived on business Master Tiptoff, husband to Giles's sister, bringing
greetings from Mrs Headley at Salisbury, and inquiries whether the wedding was to take place
at Whitsuntide, in which case she would hasten to be present, and to take charge of the household,
for which her dear daughter was far too young.  Master Tiptoff showed a suspicious alacrity
in undertaking the forwarding of his mother-in-law and her stuff.

The faces of Master Headley and Tib Steelman were a sight, both having seen only too much of
what the house wifery at Salisbury had been.  The alderman decided on the spot that there could
be no marriage till after the journey to France, since Giles was certainly to go upon it; and
lest Mrs Headley should be starting on her journey, he said he should despatch a special messenger
to stay her.  Giles, who had of course been longing for the splendid pageant, cheered up into
great amiability, and volunteered to write to his mother, that she had best not think of coming,
till he sent word to her that matters were forward.  Even thus, Master Headley was somewhat
insecure.  He thought the dame quite capable of coming and taking possession of his house in
his absence, and therefore resolved upon staying at home to garrison it; but there was then
the further difficulty that Tibble was in no condition to take his place on the journey.  If
the rheumatism seized his right arm, as it had done in the winter, he would be unable to drive
a rivet, and there would be every danger of it, high summer though it were; for though the
party would carry their own tent and bedding, the knights and gentlemen would be certain to
take all the best places, and they might be driven into a damp corner.  Indeed it was not impossible
that their tent itself might be seized, for many a noble or his attendants might think that
beggarly artisans had no right to comforts which he had been too improvident to afford, especially
if the alderman himself were absent.

Not only did Master Headley really love his trusty foreman too well to expose him to such chances,
but Tibble knew too well that there were brutal young men to whom his contorted visage would
be an incitement to contempt and outrage, and that if racked with rheumatism, he would only
be an incumbrance.  There was nothing for it but to put Kit Smallbones at the head of the party.
His imposing presence would keep off wanton insults, but on the other hand, he had not the
moral weight of authority possessed by Tibble, and though far from being a drunkard, he was
not proof against a carouse, especially when out of reach of his Bet and of his master, and
he was not by any means Tib's equal in fine and delicate workmanship.  But on the other hand,
Tib pronounced that Stephen Birkenholt was already well skilled in chasing metal and the difficult
art of restoring inlaid work, and he showed some black and silver armour, that was in hand
for the King, which fully bore out his words.

"And thou thinkst Kit can rule the lads!" said the alderman, scarce willingly.

"One of them at least can rule himself," said Tibble.  "They have both been far more discreet
since the fright they got on Ill May day; and, as for Stephen, he hath seemed to me to have
no eyes nor thought save for his work of late."

"I have marked him," said the master, "and have marvelled what ailed the lad.  His merry temper
hath left him.  I never hear him singing to keep time with his hammer, nor keeping the court
in a roar with his gibes.  I trust he is not running after the new doctrine of the hawkers
and pedlars.  His brother was inclined that way."

"There be worse folk than they, your worship," protested Tib, but he did not pursue their defence,
only adding, "but 'tis not that which ails young Stephen.  I would it were!" he sighed to himself,
inaudibly.

"Well," said the good-natured alderman, "it may be he misseth his brother.  The boys will care
for this raree-show more than thou or I, Tib!  We've seen enough of them in our day, though
verily they say this is to surpass all that ever were beheld!"

The question of who was to go had not been hitherto decided, and Giles and Stephen were both
so excited at being chosen that all low spirits and moodiness were dispelled, and the work
which went on almost all night was merrily got through.  The Dragon court was in a perpetual
commotion with knights, squires, and grooms, coming in with orders for new armour, or for old
to be furbished, and the tent-makers, lorimers, mercers, and tailors had their hands equally
full.  These lengthening mornings heard the hammer ringing at sunrise, and in the final rush,
Smallbones never went to bed at all.  He said he should make it up in the waggon on the way
to Dover.  Some hinted that he preferred the clang of his hammer to the good advice his Bet
lavished on him at every leisure moment to forewarn him against French wine-pots.

The alderman might be content with the party he sent forth, for Kit had hardly his equal in
size, strength, and good humour.  Giles had developed into a tall, comely young man, who had
got rid of his country slouch, and whose tall figure, light locks, and ruddy cheeks looked
well in the new suit which gratified his love of finery, sober-hued as it needs must be.  Stephen
was still bound to the old prentice garb, though it could not conceal his good mien, the bright
sparkling dark eyes, crisp black hair, healthy brown skin, and lithe active figure.  Giles
had a stout roadster to ride on, the others were to travel in their own waggon, furnished with
four powerful horses, which, it possible, they were to take to Calais, so as to be independent
of hiring.  Their needments, clothes, and tools, were packed in the waggon, with store of lances,
and other appliances of the tourney.  A carter and Will Wherry, who was selected as being supposed
to be conversant with foreign tongues, were to attend on them; Smallbones, as senior journeyman,
had the control of the party, and Giles had sufficiently learnt subordination not to be likely
to give himself dangerous airs of mastership.

Dennet was astir early to see them off, and she had a little gift for each.  She began with
her oldest friend, "See here, Kit," she said, "here's a wallet to hold thy nails and rivets.
What wilt thou say to me for such a piece of stitchery?"

"Say, pretty mistress?  Why this!" quoth the giant, and he picked her up by the slim waist
in his great hands, and kissed her on the forehead. He had done the like many a time nine or
ten years ago, and though Master Headley laughed, Dennet was not one bit embarrassed, and turned
to the next traveller.  "Thou art no more a prentice, Giles, and canst wear this in thy bonnet,"
she said, holding out to him a short silver chain and medal of Saint George and the Dragon.

"Thanks, gentle maid," said Giles, taking the handsome gift a little sheepishly.  "My bonnet
will make a fair show," and he bent down as she stood on the step, and saluted her lips, then
began eagerly fastening the chain round his cap, as one delighted with the ornament.

Stephen was some distance off.  He had turned aside when she spoke to Giles, and was asking
of Tibble last instructions about the restoration of enamel, when he felt a touch on his arm,
and saw Dennet standing by him.  She looked up in his face, and held up a crimson silken purse,
with S B embroidered on it within a wreath of oak and holly leaves.

With the air that ever showed his gentle blood, Stephen put a knee to the ground, and kissed
the fingers that held it to him, whereupon Dennet, a sudden burning blush overspreading her
face under her little pointed hood, turned suddenly round and ran into the house.  She was
out again on the steps when the waggon finally got under weigh, and as her eyes met Stephen's,
he doffed his flat cap with one hand, and laid the other on his heart, so that she knew where
her purse had taken up its abode.

Of the Field of the Cloth of Gold not much need be said.  To the end of the lives of the spectators,
it was a tale of wonder.  Indeed without that, the very sight of the pavilions was a marvel
in itself, the blue dome of Francis spangled in imitation of the sky, with sun, moon, and stars;
and the feudal castle of Henry, a three months' work, each surrounded with tents of every colour
and pattern which fancy could devise, with the owners banners or pennons floating from the
summits, and every creature, man, and horse, within the enchanted precincts, equally gorgeous.
It was the brightest and the last full display of magnificent pseudo chivalry, and to Stephen's
dazzled eye, seeing it beneath the slant rays of the setting sun of June, it was a fairy tale
come to life.  Hal Randall, who was in attendance on the Cardinal, declared that it was a mere
surfeit of jewels and gold and silver, and that a frieze jerkin or leathern coat was an absolute
refreshment to the sight.  He therefore spent all the time he was off duty in the forge far
in the rear, where Smallbones and his party had very little but hard work, mending, whetting,
furbishing, and even changing devices.  Those six days of tilting when "every man that stood,
showed like a mine," kept the armourers in full occupation night and day, and only now and
then could the youths try to make their way to some spot whence they could see the tournament.

Smallbones was more excited by the report of fountains of good red and white wines of all sorts,
flowing perpetually in the court of King Henry's splendid mock castle; but fortunately one
gulp was enough for an English palate nurtured on ale and mead, and he was disgusted at the
heaps of country folk, men-at-arms, beggars and vagabonds of all kinds, who swilled the liquor
continually, and, in loathsome contrast to the external splendours, lay wallowing on the ground
so thickly that it was sometimes hardly possible to move without treading on them.

"I stumbled over a dozen," said the jester, as he strolled into the little staked inclosure
that the Dragon party had arranged round their tent for the prosecution of their labours, which
were too important to all the champions not to be respected.  "Lance and sword have not laid
so many low in the lists as have the doughty Baron Burgundy and the heady knight Messire Sherris
Sack."

"Villain Verjuice and Varlet Vinegar is what Kit there calls them," said Stephen, looking up
from the work he was carrying on over a pan of glowing charcoal.

"Yea," said Smallbones, intermitting his noisy operations, "and the more of swine be they that
gorge themselves on it.  I told Jack and Hob that 'twould be shame for English folk to drown
themselves like French frogs or Flemish hogs."

"Hogs!" returned Randall.  "A decent Hampshire hog would scorn to be lodged as many a knight
and squire and lady too is now, pigging it in styes and hovels and haylofts by night, and pranking
it by day with the best!"

"Sooth enough," said Smallbones.  "Yea, we have had two knights and their squires beseeching
us for leave to sleep under our waggon!  Not an angel had they got among the four of them either,
having all their year's income on their backs, and more too.  I trow they and their heirs will
have good cause to remember this same Field of Gold."

"And what be'st thou doing, nevvy?" asked the jester.  "Thy trade seems as brisk as though
red blood were flowing instead of red wine."

"I am doing my part towards making the King into Hercules," said Stephen, "though verily the
tailor hath more part therein than we have; but he must needs have a breastplate of scales
of gold, and that by to- morrow's morn.  As Ambrose would say, `if he will be a pagan god,
he should have what's-his-name, the smith of the gods, to work for him.'"

"I heard of that freak," said the jester.  "There be a dozen tailors and all the Queen's tirewomen
frizzling up a good piece of cloth of gold for the lion's mane, covering a club with green
damask with pricks, cutting out green velvet and gummed silk for his garland!  In sooth, these
graces have left me so far behind in foolery that I have not a jest left in my pouch!  So here
I be, while my Lord Cardinal is shut up with Madame d'Angouleme in the castle--the real old
castle, mind you--doing the work, leaving the kings and queens to do their own fooling."

"Have you spoken with the French King, Hal?" asked Smallbones, who had become a great crony
of his, since the anxieties of May Eve.

"So far as I may when I have no French, and he no English!  He is a comely fellow, with a blithe
tongue and a merry eye, I warrant you a chanticleer who will lose nought for lack of crowing.
He'll crow louder than ever now he hath given our Harry a fall."

"No! hath he?" and Giles, Stephen, and Smallbones, all suspended their work to listen in concern.

"Ay marry, hath he!  The two took it into their royal noddles to try a fall, and wrestled together
on the grass, when by some ill hap, this same Francis tripped up our Harry, so that he was
on the sward for a moment.  He was up again forthwith, and in full heart for another round,
when all the Frenchmen burst in gabbling; and, though their King was willing to play the match
out fairly, they wouldn't let him, and my Lord Cardinal said something about making ill blood,
whereat our King laughed and was content to leave it.  As I told him, we have given the French
falls enough to let them make much of this one."

"I hope he will yet give the mounseer a good shaking," muttered Smallbones.

"How now, Will!  Who's that at the door?  We are on his grace's work and can touch none other
man's were it the King of France himself, or his Constable, who is finer still."

By way of expressing, "No admittance except on business," Smallbones kept Will Wherry in charge
of the door of his little territory, which having a mud wall on two sides, and a broad brook
with quaking banks on a third, had been easily fenced on the fourth, so as to protect tent,
waggon, horses, and work from the incursions of idlers.  Will however answered, "The gentleman
saith he hath kindred here."

"Ay!" and there pushed in, past the lad a tall, lean form, with a gay but soiled short cloak
over one shoulder, a suit of worn buff, a cap garnished with a dilapidated black and yellow
feather, and a pair of gilt spurs.  "If this be as they told me, where Armourer Headley's folk
lodge--I have here a sort of a cousin.  Yea, yonder's the brave lad who had no qualms at the
flash of a good Toledo in a knight's fist.  How now, my nevvy!  Is not my daughter's nevvy--mine?"

"Save your knighthood!" said Smallbones.  "Who would have looked to see you here, Sir John?
Methought you were in the Emperor's service!"

"A stout man-at-arms is of all services," returned Fulford.  "I'm here with half Flanders to
see this mighty show, and pick up a few more lusty Badgers at this encounter of old comrades.
Is old Headley here?"

"Nay, he is safe at home, where I would I were," sighed Kit.

"And you are my young master his nephew, who knew where to purvey me of good steel," added
Fulford, shaking Giles's hand.  "You are fain, doubtless, you youngsters, to be forth without
the old man.  Ha! and you've no lack of merry company."

Harry Randall's first impulse had been to look to the right and left for the means of avoiding
this encounter, but there was no escape; and he was moreover in most fantastic motley, arrayed
in one of the many suits provided for the occasion.  It was in imitation of a parrot, brilliant
grass-green velvet, touched here and there with scarlet, yellow, or blue.  He had been only
half disguised on the occasion of Fulford's visit to his wife, and he perceived the start of
recognition in the eyes of the Condottiere, so that he knew it would be vain to try to conceal
his identity.

"You sought Stephen Birkenholt," he said.  "And you've lit on something nearer, if so be you'll
acknowledge the paraquito that your Perronel hath mated with."

The Condottiere burst into a roar of laughter so violent that he had to lean against the mud
wall, and hold his sides.  "Ha, ha! that I should be father-in-law to a fool!" and then he
set off again.  "That the sober, dainty little wench should have wedded a fool!  Ha! ha! ha!"

"Sir," cried Stephen hotly, "I would have you to know that mine uncle here, Master Harry Randall,
is a yeoman of good birth, and that he undertook his present part to support your own father
and child! Methinks you are the last who should jeer at and insult him!"

"Stephen is right," said Giles.  "This is my kinsman's tent, and no man shall say a word against
Master Harry Randall therein."

"Well crowed, my young London gamebirds," returned Fulford, coolly.  "I meant no disrespect
to the gentleman in green.  Nay, I am mightily beholden to him for acting his part out and
taking on himself that would scarce befit a gentleman of a company--impedimenta, as we used
to say in the grammar school.  How does the old man?--I must find some token to send him."

"He is beyond the reach of all tokens from you save prayers and masses," returned Randall, gravely.

"Ay?  You say not so?  Old gaffer dead?"  And when the soldier was told how the feeble thread
of life had been snapped by the shock of joy on his coming, a fit of compunction and sorrow
seized him.  He covered his face with his hands and wept with a loudness of grief that surprised
and touched his hearers; and presently began to bemoan himself that he had hardly a mark in
his purse to pay for a mass; but therewith he proceeded to erect before him the cross hilt
of poor Abenali's sword, and to vow thereupon that the first spoil and the first ransom, that
it should please the saints to send him, should be entirely spent in masses for the soul of
Martin Fulford.  This tribute apparently stilled both grief and remorse, for looking up at
the grotesque figure of Randall, he said, "Methought they told me, master son, that you were
in the right quarters for beads and masses and all that gear--a varlet of Master Butcher- Cardinal's,
or the like-but mayhap 'twas part of your fooling."

"Not so," replied Randall.  "'Tis to the Cardinal that I belong," holding out his sleeve, where
the scarlet hat was neatly worked, "and I'll brook no word against his honour."

"Ho! ho!  Maybe you looked to have the hat on your own head," quoth Fulford, waxing familiar,
"if your master comes to be Pope after his own reckoning.  Why, I've known a Cardinal get the
scarlet because an ape had danced on the roof with him in his arms!"

"You forget!  I'm a wedded man," said Randall, who certainly, in private life, had much less
of the buffoon about him than his father-in-law.

"Impedimentum again," whistled the knight.  "Put a halter round her neck, and sell her for
a pot of beer."

"I'd rather put a halter round my own neck for good and all," said Hal, his face reddening;
but among other accomplishments of his position, he had learnt to keep his temper, however
indignant he felt.

"Well--she's a knight's daughter, and preferments will be plenty. Thou'lt make me captain of
the Pope's guard, fair son--there's no post I should like better.  Or I might put up with an
Italian earldom or the like.  Honour would befit me quite as well as that old fellow, Prosper
Colonna; and the Badgers would well become the Pope's scarlet and yellow liveries."

The Badgers, it appeared, were in camp not far from Gravelines, whence the Emperor was watching
the conference between his uncle-in-law and his chief enemy; and thence Fulford, who had a
good many French acquaintance, having once served under Francis the First, had come over to
see the sport.  Moreover, he contrived to attach himself to the armourer's party, in a manner
that either Alderman Headley himself, or Tibble Steelman, would effectually have prevented;
but which Kit Smallbones had not sufficient moral weight to hinder, even if he had had a greater
dislike to being treated as a boon companion by a knight who had seen the world, could appreciate
good ale, and tell all manner of tales of his experiences.

So the odd sort of kindred that the captain chose to claim with Stephen Birkenholt was allowed,
and in right of it, he was permitted to sleep in the waggon; and thereupon his big raw-boned
charger was found sharing the fodder of the plump broad-backed cart horses, while he himself,
whenever sport was not going forward for him, or work for the armourers, sat discussing with
Kit the merits or demerits of the liquors of all nations, either in their own yard or in some
of the numerous drinking booths that had sprung up around.

To no one was this arrangement so distasteful as to Quipsome Hal, who felt himself in some
sort the occasion of the intrusion, and yet was quite unable to prevent it, while everything
he said was treated as a joke by his unwelcome father-in-law.  It was a coarse time, and Wolsey's
was not a refined or spiritual establishment, but it was decorous, and Randall had such an
affection and respect for the innocence of his sister's young son, that he could not bear to
have him exposed to the company of one habituated to the licentiousness of the mercenary soldier.
At first the jester hoped to remove the lads from the danger, for the brief remainder of their
stay, by making double exertion to obtain places for them at any diversion which might be going
on when their day's work was ended, and of these, of course, there was a wide choice, subordinate
to the magnificent masquing of kings and queens.  On the last midsummer evening, while their
majesties were taking leave of one another, a company of strolling players were exhibiting
in an extemporary theatre, and here Hal incited both the youths to obtain seats.  The drama
was on one of the ordinary and frequent topics of that, as of all other times, and the dumb
show and gestures were far more effective than the words, so that even those who did not understand
the language of the comedians, who seemed to be Italians, could enter into it, especially as
it was interspersed with very expressive songs.

An old baron insists on betrothing his daughter and heiress to her kinsman freshly knighted.
She is reluctant, weeps, and is threatened, singing afterwards her despair, (of course she
really was a black-eyed boy).  That song was followed by a still more despairing one from the
baron's squire, and a tender interview between them followed.

Then came discovery, the baron descending as a thunderbolt, the banishment of the squire, the
lady driven at last to wed the young knight, her weeping and bewailing herself under his ill-treatment,
which extended to pulling her about by the hair, the return of the lover, notified by a song
behind the scenes, a dangerously affectionate meeting, interrupted by the husband, a fierce
clashing of swords, mutual slaughter by the two gentlemen, and the lady dying of grief on the
top of her lover.

Such was the argument of this tragedy, which Giles Headley pronounced to be very dreary pastime,
indeed he was amusing himself with an exchange of comfits with a youth who sat next him all
the time--for he had found Stephen utterly deaf to aught but the tragedy, following every gesture
with eager eyes, lips quivering, and eyes filling at the strains of the love songs, though
they were in their native Italian, of which he understood not a word.  He rose up with a heavy
groan when all was over, as if not yet disenchanted, and hardly answered when his uncle spoke
to him afterwards.  It was to ask whether the Dragon party were to return at once to London,
or to accompany the Court to Gravelines, where, it had just been announced, the King intended
to pay a visit to his nephew, the Emperor.

Neither Stephen nor Giles knew, but when they reached their own quarters they found that Smallbones
had received an intimation that there might be jousts, and that the offices of the armourers
would be required.  He was very busy packing up his tools, but loudly hilarious, and Sir John
Fulford, with a flask of wine beside him, was swaggering and shouting orders to the men as
though he were the head of the expedition.

Revelations come in strange ways.  Perhaps that Italian play might be called Galeotto to Stephen
Birkenholt.  It affected him all the more because he was not distracted by the dialogue, but
was only powerfully touched by the music, and, in the gestures of the lovers, felt all the
force of sympathy.  It was to him like a kind of prophetic mirror, revealing to him the true
meaning of all he had ever felt for Dennet Headley, and of his vexation and impatience at seeing
her bestowed upon a dull and indifferent lout like her kinsman, who not only was not good enough
for her, but did not even love her, or accept her as anything but his title to the Dragon court.
He now thrilled and tingled from head to foot with the perception that all this meant love--love
to Dennet; and in every act of the drama he beheld only himself, Giles, and Dennet. Watching
at first with a sweet fascination, his feelings changed, now to strong yearning, now to hot
wrath, and then to horror and dismay.  In his troubled sleep after the spectacle, he identified
himself with the lover, sang, wooed, and struggled in his person, woke with a start of relief,
to find Giles snoring safely beside him, and the watch-dog on his chest instead of an expiring
lady.  He had not made unholy love to sweet Dennet, nor imperilled her good name, nor slain
his comrade.  Nor was she yet wedded to that oaf Giles!  But she would be in a few weeks, and
then!  How was he to brook the sight, chained as he was to the Dragon court--see Giles lord
it over her, and all of them, see her missing the love that was burning for her elsewhere.
Stephen lost his boyhood on that evening, and, though force of habit kept him like himself
outwardly, he never was alone, without feeling dazed, and torn in every direction at once.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

SWORD OR SMITHY.

  Shakespeare.

Tidings came forth on the parting from the French King that the English Court was about to
move to Gravelines to pay a visit to the Emperor and his aunt, the Duchess of Savoy.  As it
was hoped that jousts might make part of the entertainment, the attendance of the Dragon party
was required.  Giles was unfeignedly delighted at this extension of holiday, Stephen felt that
it deferred the day--would it be of strange joy or pain?--of standing face to face with Dennet;
and even Kit had come to tolerate foreign parts more with Sir John Fulford to show him the
way to the best Flemish ale!

The knight took upon himself the conduct of the Dragons.  He understood how to lead them by
routes where all provisions and ale had not been consumed; and he knew how to swagger and threaten
so as to obtain the best of liquor and provisions at each kermesse--at least so he said, though
it might be doubted whether the Flemings might not have been more willing to yield up their
stores to Kit's open, honest face and free hand.

However, Fulford seemed to consider himself one with the party; and he beguiled the way by
tales of the doings of the Badgers in Italy and Savoy, which were listened to with avidity
by the lads, distracting Stephen from the pain at his heart, and filling both with excitement.
They were to have the honour of seeing the Badgers at Gravelines, where they were encamped
outside the city to serve as a guard to the great inclosure that was being made of canvas stretched
on the masts of ships to mark out the space for a great banquet and dance.

The weather broke however just as Henry, his wife and his sister, entered Gravelines; it rained
pertinaciously, a tempestuous wind blew down the erection, and as there was no time to set
it up again, the sports necessarily took place in the castle and town hall.  There was no occasion
for the exercise of the armourer's craft, and as Charles had forbidden the concourse of all
save invited guests, everything was comparatively quiet and dull, though the entertainment
was on the most liberal scale.  Lodgings were provided in the city at the Emperor's expense,
and wherever an Englishman was quartered each night, the imperial officers brought a cast of
fine manchet bread, two great silver pots with wine, a pound of sugar, white and yellow candles,
and a torch. As Randall said, "Charles gave solid pudding where Francis gave empty praise!"

Smallbones and the two youths had very little to do, save to consume these provisions and accept
the hospitality freely offered to them at the camp of the Badgers, where Smallbones and the
Ancient of the troop sat fraternising over big flagons of Flemish ale, which did not visibly
intoxicate the honest smith, but kept him in the dull and drowsy state, which was his idea
of the dolce far niente of a holiday.  Meanwhile the two youths were made much of by the warriors,
Stephen's dexterity with the bow and back-sword were shown off and lauded, Giles's strength
was praised, and all manner of new feats were taught them, all manner of stories told them;
and the shrinking of well-trained young citizens from these lawless men, "full of strange oaths
and bearded like the pard," and some very truculent-looking, had given way to judicious flattery,
and to the attractions of adventure and of a free life, where wealth and honour awaited the bold.

Stephen was told that the gentleman in him was visible, that he ought to disdain the flat cap
and blue gown, that here was his opportunity, and that among the Badgers he would soon be so
rich, as to wonder that he had ever tolerated the greasy mechanical life of a base burgher.
Respect to his oaths to his master--Sir John laughed the scruple to scorn; nay, if he were
so tender, he could buy his absolution the first time he had his pouch full of gold.

"What shall I do?" was the cry of Stephen's heart.  "My honour and my oath.  They bind me.
She would weep.  My master would deem me ungrateful, Ambrose break his heart.  And yet who
knows but I should do worse if I stayed, I shall break my own heart if I do.  I shall not see--I
may forget.  No, no, never I but at least I shall never know the moment when the lubber takes
the jewel he knows not how to prize! Marches--sieges--there shall I quell this wild beating!
I may die there.  At least they will allay this present frenzy of my blood."

And he listened when Fulford and Will Marden, a young English man-at- arms with whom he had
made friends, concerted how he should meet them at an inn--the sign of the Seven Stars--in
Gravelines, and there exchange his prentice's garb for the buff coat and corslet of a Badger,
with the Austrian black and yellow scarf.  He listened, but he had not promised. The sense
of duty to his master, the honour to his word, always recurred like "first thoughts," though
the longing to escape, the restlessness of hopeless love, the youthful eagerness for adventure
and freedom, swept it aside again and again.

He had not seen his uncle since the evening of the comedy, for Hal had travelled in the Cardinal's
suite, and the amusements being all within doors, jesters were much in request, as indeed Charles
the Fifth was curious in fools, and generally had at least three in attendance. Stephen, moreover,
always shrank from his uncle when acting professionally.  He had learnt to love and esteem
the man during his troubles, but this only rendered the sight of his buffoonery more distressing,
and as Randall had not provided himself with his home suit, they were the more cut off from
one another.  Thus there was all the less to counteract or show the fallacy of Fulford's recruiting
blandishments.

The day had come on the evening of which Stephen was to meet Fulford and Marden at the Seven
Stars and give them his final answer, in time to allow of their smuggling him out of the city,
and sending him away into the country, since Smallbones would certainly suspect him to be in
the camp, and as he was still an apprentice, it was possible, though not probable, that the
town magistrates might be incited to make search on inquiry, as they were very jealous of the
luring away of their apprentices by the Free Companies, and moreover his uncle might move the
Cardinal and the King to cause measures to be taken for his recovery.

Ill at ease, Stephen wandered away from the hostel where Smallbones was entertaining his friend,
the Ancient.  He had not gone far down the street when a familiar figure met his eye, no other
than that of Lucas Hansen, his brother's old master, walking along with a pack on his back.
Grown as Stephen was, the old man's recognition was as rapid as his own, and there was a clasp
of the hand, an exchange of greeting, while Lucas eagerly asked after his dear pupil, Ambrose.

"Come in hither, and we can speak more at ease," said Lucas, leading the way up the common
staircase of a tall house, whose upper stories overhung the street.  Up and up, Lucas led the
way to a room in the high peaked roof, looking out at the back.  Here Stephen recognised a
press, but it was not at work, only a young friar was sitting there engaged in sewing up sheets
so as to form a pamphlet.  Lucas spoke to him in Flemish to explain his own return with the
English prentice.

"Dost thou dwell here, sir?" asked Stephen.  "I thought Rotterdam was thine home."

"Yea," said Lucas, "so it be, but I am sojourning here to aid in bearing about the seed of
the Gospel, for which I walk through these lands of ours.  But tell me of thy brother, and
of the little Moorish maiden?"

Stephen replied with an account of both Ambrose and Aldonza, and likewise of Tibble Steelman,
explaining how ill the last had been in the winter, and that therefore he could not be with
the party.

"I would I had a token to send him," said Lucas; "but I have nought here that is not either
in the Dutch or the French, and neither of those tongues doth he understand.  But thy brother,
the good Ambrose, can read the Dutch.  Wilt thou carry him from me this fresh tractate, showing
how many there be that make light of the Apostle Paul's words not to do evil that good may come?"

Stephen had been hearing rather listlessly, thinking how little the good man suspected how
doubtful it was that he should bear messages to Ambrose.  Now, on that sore spot in his conscience,
that sentence darted like an arrow, the shaft finding "mark the archer little meant," and with
a start, not lost on Lucas, he exclaimed, "Saith the holy Saint Paul that?"

"Assuredly, my son.  Brother Cornelis, who is one whose eyes have been opened, can show you
the very words, if thou hast any Latin."

Perhaps to gain time, Stephen assented, and the young friar, with a somewhat inquisitive look,
presently brought him the sentence, "Et non faciamus mala ut veniant bona."

Stephen's Latin was not very fresh, and he hardly comprehended the words, but he stood gazing
with a frown of distress on his brow, which made Lucas say, "My son, thou art sorely bestead.
Is there aught in which a plain old man can help thee, for thy brother's sake?  Speak freely.
Brother Cornelis knows not a word of English.  Dost thou owe aught to any man?"

"Nay, nay--not that," said Stephen, drawn in his trouble and perplexity to open his heart to
this incongruous confidant, "but, sir, sir, which be the worst to break my pledge to my master,
or to run into a trial which--which will last from day to day, and may be too much for me--yea,
and for another--at last?"

The colour, the trembling of limb, the passion of voice, revealed enough to Lucas to make him
say, in the voice of one who, dried up as he was, had once proved the trial, "'Tis love, thou
wouldst say?"

"Ay, sir," said Stephen, turning away, but in another moment bursting forth, "I love my master's
daughter, and she is to wed her cousin, who takes her as her father's chattel!  I wist not
why the world had grown dark to me till I saw a comedy at Ardres, where, as in a mirror, 'twas
all set forth--yea, and how love was too strong for him and for her, and how shame and death
came thereof."

"Those players are good for nought but to wake the passions!" muttered Lucas.

"Nay, methought they warned me," said Stephen.  "For, sir,"--he hid his burning face in his
hands as he leant on the back of a chair--"I wot that she has ever liked me better, far better
than him.  And scarce a night have I closed an eye without dreaming it all, and finding myself
bringing evil on her, till I deemed 'twere better I never saw her more, and left her to think
of me as a forsworn runagate rather than see her wedded only to be flouted--and maybe--do worse."

"Poor lad!" said Lucas; "and what wouldst thou do?"

"I have not pledged myself--but I said I would consider of--service among Fulford's troop,"
faltered Stephen.

"Among those ruffians--godless, lawless men!" exclaimed Lucas.

"Yea, I know what you would say," returned Stephen, "but they are brave men, better than you
deem, sir."

"Were they angels or saints," said Lucas, rallying his forces, "thou hast no right to join,
them.  Thine oath fetters thee.  Thou hast no right to break it and do a sure and certain evil
to avoid one that may never befall!  How knowst thou how it may be?  Nay, if the trial seem
to thee over great, thine apprenticeship will soon be at an end."

"Not for two years."

"Or thy master, if thou spakest the whole truth, would transfer thine indentures.  He is a
good man, and if it be as thou sayest, would not see his child tried too sorely.  God will
make a way for the tempted to escape.  They need not take the devil's way."

"Sir," said Stephen, lifting up his head, "I thank you.  This was what I needed.  I will tell
Sir John Fulford that I ought never to have heeded him."

"Must thou see him again?"

"I must.  I am to give him his answer at the Seven Stars.  But fear not me, Master Lucas, he
shall not lead me away."  And Stephen took a grateful leave of the little Dutchman, and charged
himself with more messages for Ambrose and Tibble than his overburdened spirit was likely to
retain.

Lucas went down the stairs with him, and as a sudden thought said at the foot of them, "'Tis
at the Seven Stars thou meetest this knight.  Take an old man's counsel.  Taste no liquor there."

"I am no ale bibber," said Stephen.

"Nay, I deemed thee none--but heed my words--captains of landsknechts in kermesses are scarce
to be trusted.  Taste not."

Stephen gave a sort of laugh at the precaution, and shook himself loose. It was still an hour
to the time of meeting, and the Ave-bell was ringing.  A church door stood open, and for the
first time since he had been at Gravelines he felt that there would be the calm he needed to
adjust the conflict of his spirits, and comprehend the new situation, or rather the recurrence
to the old one.  He seemed to have recovered his former self, and to be able to perceive that
things might go on as before, and his heart really leapt at finding he might return to the
sight of Dennet and Ambrose and all he loved.

His wishes were really that way; and Fulford's allurements had become very shadowy when he
made his way to the Seven Stars, whose vine-covered window allowed many loud voices and fumes
of beer and wine to escape into the summer evening air.

The room was perhaps cleaner than an English one would have been, but it was reeking with heat
and odours, and the forest-bred youth was unwilling to enter, but Fulford and two or three
Badgers greeted him noisily and called on him to partake of the supper they had ready prepared.

"No, sir knight, I thank you," said Stephen.  "I am bound for my quarters, I came but to thank
you for your goodness to me, and to bid you farewell."

"And how as to thy pledge to join us, young man?" demanded Fulford sternly.

"I gave no pledge," said Stephen.  "I said I would consider of it."

"Faint-hearted! ha! ha!" and the English Badgers translated the word to the Germans, and set
them shouting with derision.

"I am not faint-hearted," said Stephen; "but I will not break mine oath to my master."

"And thine oath to me?  Ha!" said Fulford.

"I sware you no oath, I gave you no word," said Stephen.

"Ha!  Thou darest give me the lie, base prentice.  Take that!"

And therewith he struck Stephen a crushing blow on the head, which felled him to the ground.
The host and all the company, used to pot- house quarrels, and perhaps playing into his hands,
took little heed; Stephen was dragged insensible into another room, and there the Badgers began
hastily to divest him of his prentice's gown, and draw his arms into a buff coat.

Fulford had really been struck with his bravery, and knew besides that his skill in the armourer's
craft would be valuable, so that it had been determined beforehand that he should--by fair
means or foul--leave the Seven Stars a Badger.

"By all the powers of hell, you have struck too hard, sir.  He is sped," said Marden anxiously.

"Ass! tut!" said Fulford.  "Only enough to daze him till he be safe in our quarters--and for
that the sooner the better.  Here, call Anton to take his heels.  We'll get him forth now as
a fellow of our own."

"Hark!  What's that?"

"Gentlemen," said the host hurrying in, "here be some of the gentlemen of the English Cardinal,
calling for a nephew of one of them, who they say is in this house."

With an imprecation, Fulford denied all connection with gentlemen of the Cardinal; but there
was evidently an invasion, and in another moment, several powerful-looking men in the crimson
and black velvet of Wolsey's train had forced their way into the chamber, and the foremost,
seeing Stephen's condition at a glance, exclaimed loudly, "Thou villain! traitor! kidnapper!
This is thy work."

"Ha! ha!" shouted Fulford, "whom have we here?  The Cardinal's fool a masquing!  Treat us to
a caper, quipsome sir?"

"I'm more like to treat you to the gyves," returned Randall.  "Away with you!  The watch are
at hand.  Were it not for my wife's sake, they should bear you off to the city jail; the Emperor
should know how you fill your ranks."

It was quite true.  The city-guard were entering at the street door, and the host hurried Fulford
and his men, swearing and raging, out at a back door provided for such emergencies.  Stephen
was beginning to recover by this time.  His uncle knelt down, took his head on his shoulder,
and Lucas washed off the blood and administered a drop of wine.  His first words were:

"Was it Giles?  Where is she?"

"Still going over the play!" thought Lucas.  "Nay, nay, lad.  'Twas one of the soldiers who
played thee this scurvy trick!  All's well now. Thou wilt soon be able to quit this place."

"I remember now," said Stephen, "Sir John said I gave him the lie when I said I had given no
pledge.  But I had not!"

"Thou hast been a brave fellow, and better broken head than broken troth," said his uncle.

"But how came you here," asked Stephen, "in the nick of time?"

It was explained that Lucas, not doubting Stephen's resolution, but quite aware of the tricks
of landsknecht captains with promising recruits in view, had gone first in search of Smallbones,
but had found him and the Ancient so deeply engaged in potations from the liberal supply of
the Emperor to all English guests, that there was no getting him apart, and he was too much
muddled to comprehend if he could have been spoken with.

Lucas then, in desperation, betook himself to the convent where Wolsey was magnificently lodged.
Ill May Day had made him, as well as others, well acquainted with the relationship between
Stephen and Randall, though he was not aware of the further connection with Fulford.  He hoped,
even if unable to see Randall, to obtain help on behalf of an English lad in danger, and happily
he arrived at a moment when State affairs were going on, and Randall was refreshing himself
by a stroll in the cloister.  When Lucas had made him understand the situation, his dismay
was only equalled by his promptitude.  He easily obtained the loan of one of the splendid suits
of scarlet and crimson, guarded with black velvet a hand broad, which were worn by the Cardinal's
secular attendants--for he was well known by this time in the household to be very far from
an absolute fool, and indeed had done many a good turn to his comrades.  Several of the gentlemen,
indignant at the threatened outrage on a young Englishman, and esteeming the craftsmen of the
Dragon, volunteered to accompany him, and others warned the watch.

There was some difficulty still, for the burgher guards, coming up puffing and blowing, wanted
to carry off the victim and keep him in ward to give evidence against the mercenaries, whom
they regarded as a sort of wolves, so that even the Emperor never durst quarter them within
one of the cities.  The drawn swords of Randall's friends however settled that matter, and
Stephen, though still dizzy, was able to walk.  Thus leaning on his uncle, he was escorted
back to the hostel.

"The villain!" the jester said on the way, "I mistrusted him, but I never thought he would
have abused our kindred in this fashion.  I would fain have come down to look after thee, nevvy,
but these kings and queens are troublesome folk.  The Emperor--he is a pale, shame-faced, solemn
lad.  Maybe he museth, but he had scarce a word to say for himself.  Our Hal tried clapping
on the shoulder, calling him fair coz, and the like, in his hearty fashion.  Behold, what doth
he but turn round with such a look about the long lip of him as my Lord of Buckingham might
have if his scullion made free with him.  His aunt, the Duchess of Savoy, is a merry dame,
and a wise!  She and our King can talk by the ell, but as for the Emperor, he speaketh to none
willingly save Queen Katharine, who is of his own stiff Spanish humour, and he hath eyes for
none save Queen Mary, who would have been his empress had high folk held to their word.  And
with so tongue--tied a host, and the rain without, what had the poor things to do by way of
disporting themselves with but a show of fools.  I've had to go through every trick and quip
I learnt when I was with old Nat Fire-eater.  And I'm stiffer in the joints and weightier in
the heft than I was in those days when I slept in the fields, and fasted more than ever Holy
Church meant; But, heigh ho!  I ought to be supple enough after the practice of these three
days.  Moreover, if it could loose a fool's tongue to have a king and queen for interpreters,
I had them--for there were our Harry and Moll catching at every gibe as fast as my brain could
hatch it, and rendering it into French as best thy might, carping and quibbling the while underhand
at one another's renderings, and the Emperor sitting by in his black velvet, smiling about
as much as a felon at the hangman's jests. All his poor fools moreover, and the King's own,
ready to gnaw their baubles for envy!  That was the only sport I had!  I'm wearier than if
I'd been plying Smallbones' biggest hammer.  The worst of it is that my Lord Cardinal is to
stay behind and go on to Bruges as ambassador, and I with him, so thou must bear my greetings
to thy naunt, and tell her I'm keeping from picking up a word of French or Flemish lest this
same Charles should take a fancy to me and ask me of my master, who would give away his own
head to get the Pope's fool's cap."

"Wer da?  Qui va la?" asked a voice, and the summer twilight revealed two figures with cloaks
held high and drooping Spanish hats; one of whom, a slender, youthful figure, so far as could
be seen under his cloak, made inquiries, first in Flemish, then in French, as to what ailed
the youth.  Lucas replied in the former tongue, and one of the Englishmen could speak French.
The gentleman seemed much concerned, asked if the watch had been at hand, and desired Lucas
to assure the young Englishman that the Emperor would be much distressed at the tidings, asked
where he was lodged, and passed on.

"Ah ha!" muttered the jester, "if my ears deceive me now, I'll never trust them again!  Mynheer
Charles knows a few more tricks than he is fain to show off in royal company.  Come on, Stevie!
I'll see thee to thy bed.  Old Kit is too far gone to ask after thee.  In sooth, I trow that
my sweet father-in-law set his Ancient to nail him to the wine pot. And Master Giles I saw
last with some of the grooms.  I said nought to him, for I trow thou wouldst not have him know
thy plight!  I'll be with thee in the morning ere thou partest, if kings, queens, and cardinals
roar themselves hoarse for the Quipsome."

With this promise Hal Randall bestowed his still dulled and half-stunned nephew carefully on
the pallet provided by the care of the purveyors. Stephen slept dreamily at first, then soundly,
and woke at the sound of the bells of Gravelines to the sense that a great crisis in his life
was over, a strange wild dream of evil dispelled, and that he was to go home to see, hear,
and act as he could, with a heartache indeed, but with the resolve to do his best as a true
and honest man.

Smallbones was already afoot--for the start for Calais was to be made on that very day.  The
smith was fully himself again, and was bawling for his subordinates, who had followed his example
in indulging in the good cheer, and did not carry it off so easily.  Giles, rather silent and
surly, was out of bed, shouting answers to Smallbones, and calling on Stephen to truss his
points.  He was in a mood not easy to understand, he would hardly speak, and never noticed
the marks of the fray on Stephen's temple--only half hidden by the dark curly hair.  This was
of course a relief, but Stephen could not help suspecting that he had been last night engaged
in some revel about which he desired no inquiries.

Randall came just as the operation was completed.  He was in a good deal of haste, having to
restore the groom's dress he wore by the time the owner had finished the morning toilet of
the Lord Cardinal's palfreys. He could not wait to inquire how Stephen had contrived to fall
into the hands of Fulford, his chief business being to put under safe charge a bag of coins,
the largesse from the various princes and nobles whom he had diverted--ducats, crowns, dollars,
and angels all jingling together--to be bestowed wherever Perronel kept her store, a matter
which Hal was content not to know, though the pair cherished a hope some day to retire on it
from fooling.

"Thou art a good lad, Steve," said Hal.  "I'm right glad thou leavest this father of mine behind
thee.  I would not see thee such as he--no, not for all the gold we saw on the Frenchmen's backs."

This was the jester's farewell, but it was some time before the waggon was under way, for the
carter and one of the smiths were missing, and were only at noon found in an alehouse, both
very far gone in liquor, and one with a black eye.  Kit discoursed on sobriety in the most
edifying manner, as at last he drove heavily along the street, almost the last in the baggage
train of the king and queens--but still in time to be so included in it so as to save all difficulty
at the gates.  It was, however, very late in the evening when they reached Calais, so that
darkness was coming on as they waited their turn at the drawbridge, with a cart full of scullions
and pots and pans before them, and a waggon- load of tents behind.  The warders in charge of
the gateway had orders to count over all whom they admitted, so that no unauthorised person
might enter that much-valued fortress.  When at length the waggon rolled forward into the shadow
of the great towered gateway on the outer side of the moat, the demand was made, who was there?
Giles had always insisted, as leader of the party, on making reply to such questions, and Smallbones
waited for his answer, but none was forthcoming.  Therefore Kit shouted in reply, "Alderman
Headley's wain and armourers.  Two Journeymen, one prentice, two smiths, two waggoners."

"Seven!" rejoined the warder.  "One--two--three--four--five.  Ha! your company seems to be
lacking."

"Giles must have ridden on," suggested Stephen, while Kit, growling angrily, called on the
lazy fellow, Will Wherry, to wake and show himself.  But the officials were greatly hurried,
and as long as no dangerous person got into Calais, it mattered little to them who might be
left outside, so they hurried on the waggon into the narrow street.

It was well that it was a summer night, for lodgings there were none. Every hostel was full
and all the houses besides.  The earlier comers assured Kit that it was of no use to try to
go on.  The streets up to the wharf were choked, and he might think himself lucky to have his
waggon to sleep in.  But the horses!  And food?  However, there was one comfort--English tongues
answered, if it was only with denials.

Kit's store of travelling money was at a low ebb, and it was nearly exhausted by the time,
at an exorbitant price, he had managed to get a little hay and water for the horses, and a
couple of loaves and a haunch of bacon among the five hungry men.  They were quite content
to believe that Master Giles had ridden on before and secured better quarters and viands, nor
could they much regret the absence of Will Wherry's wide mouth.

Kit called Stephen to council in the morning.  His funds would not permit waiting for the missing
ones, if he were to bring home any reasonable proportion of gain to his master.  He believed
that Master Headley would by no means risk the whole party loitering at Calais, when it was
highly probable that Giles might have joined some of the other travellers, and embarked by himself.

After all, Kit's store had to be well-nigh expended before the horses, waggon, and all, could
find means to encounter the miseries of the transit to Dover.  Then, glad as he was to be on
his native soil, his spirits sank lower and lower as the waggon creaked on under the hot sun
towards London.  He had actually brought home only four marks to make over to his master; and
although he could show a considerable score against the King and various nobles, these debts
were not apt to be promptly discharged, and what was worse, two members of his party and one
horse were missing.  He little knew how narrow an escape he had had of losing a third!

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

AN INVASION.

  "What shall be the maiden's fate?
  Who shall be the maiden's mate?"
  Scott.

No Giles Headley appeared to greet the travellers, though Kit Smallbones had halted at Canterbury,
to pour out entreaties to Saint Thomas, and the vow of a steel and gilt reliquary of his best
workmanship to contain the old shoe, which a few years previously had so much disgusted Erasmus
and his companion.

Poor old fellow, he was too much crest-fallen thoroughly to enjoy even the gladness of his
little children; and his wife made no secret of her previous conviction that he was too dunderheaded
not to run into some coil, when she was not there to look after him.  The alderman was more
merciful.  Since there had been no invasion from Salisbury, he had regretted the not having
gone himself to Ardres, and he knew pretty well that Kit's power lay more in his arms than
in his brain.  He did not wonder at the small gain, nor at the having lost sight of the young
man, and confidently expected the lost ones soon to appear.

As to Dennet, her eyes shone quietly, and she took upon herself to send down to let Mistress
Randall know of her nephew's return, and invite her to supper to hear the story of his doings.
The girl did not look at all like a maiden uneasy about her lost lover, but much more like
one enjoying for the moment the immunity from a kind of burthen; and, as she smiled, called
for Stephen's help in her little arrangements, and treated him in the friendly manner of old
times, he could not but wonder at the panic that had overpowered him for a time like a fever
of the mind.

There was plenty to speak of in the glories of the Field of the Cloth of Gold, and the transactions
with the knights and nobles; and Stephen held his peace as to his adventure, but Dennet's eyes
were sharper than Kit's.  She spied the remains of the bruise under his black curly hair; and
while her father and Tib were unravelling the accounts from Kit's brain and tally-sticks, she
got the youth out into the gallery, and observed, "So thou hast a broken head.  See here are
grandmother's lily- leaves in strong waters.  Let me lay one on for thee.  There, sit down
on the step, then I can reach."

"'Tis well-nigh whole now, sweet mistress," said Stephen, complying however, for it was too
sweet to have those little fingers busy about him, for the offer to be declined.

"How gatst thou the blow?" asked Dennet.  "Was it at single-stick? Come, thou mayst tell me.
'Twas in standing up for some one."

"Nay, mistress, I would it had been."

"Thou hast been in trouble," she said, leaning on the baluster above him.  "Or did ill men
set on thee?"

"That's the nearest guess," said Stephen.  "'Twas that tall father of mine aunt's, the fellow
that came here for armour, and bought poor Master Michael's sword."

"And sliced the apple on thine hand.  Ay?"

"He would have me for one of his Badgers."

"Thee!  Stephen!"  It was a cry of pain as well as horror.

"Yea, mistress; and when I refused, the fellow dealt me a blow, and laid me down senseless,
to bear me off willy nilly, but that good old Lucas Hansen brought mine uncle to mine aid--"

Dennet clasped her hands.  "O Stephen, Stephen!  Now I know how good the Lord is.  Wot ye,
I asked of Tibble to take me daily to Saint Faith's to crave of good Saint Julian to have you
all in his keeping, and saith he on the way, `Methinks, mistress, our dear Lord would hear
you if you spake to Him direct, with no go-between.'  I did as he bade me, Stephen, I went
to the high Altar, and prayed there, and Tibble went with me, and lo, now, He hath brought
you back safe.  We will have a mass of thanksgiving on the very morn."

Stephen's heart could not but bound, for it was plain enough for whom the chief force of these
prayers had been offered.

"Sweet mistress," he said, "they have availed me indeed.  Certes, they warded me in the time
of sore trial and temptation."

"Nay," said Dennet, "thou couldst not have longed to go away from hence with those ill men
who live by slaying and plundering?"

The present temptation was to say that he had doubted whether this course would not have been
for the best both for himself and for her; but he recollected that Giles might be at the gate,
and if so, he should feel as if he had rather have bitten out his tongue than have let Dennet
know the state of the case, so he only answered--

"There be sorer temptations in the world for us poor rogues than little home-biding house crickets
like thee wot of, mistress.  Well that ye can pray for us without knowing all!"

Stephen had never consciously come so near lovemaking, and his honest face was all one burning
glow with the suppressed feeling, while Dennet lingered till the curfew warned them of the
lateness of the hour, both with a strange sense of undefined pleasure in the being together
in the summer twilight.

Day after day passed on with no news of Giles or Will Wherry.  The alderman grew uneasy, and
sent Stephen to ask his brother to write to Randall, or to some one else in Wolsey's suite,
to make inquiries at Bruges.  But Ambrose was found to have gone abroad in the train of Sir
Thomas More, and nothing was heard till their return six weeks later, when Ambrose brought
home a small packet which had been conveyed to him through one of the Emperor's suite.  It
was tied up with a long tough pale wisp of hair, evidently from the mane or tail of some Flemish
horse, and was addressed, "To Master Ambrose Birkenholt, menial clerk to the most worshipful
Sir Thomas More, Knight, Under Sheriff of the City of London.  These greeting--"

Within, when Ambrose could open the missive, was another small parcel, and a piece of brown
coarse paper, on which was scrawled--

"Good Ambrose Birkenholt,--I pray thee to stand, my friend, and let all know whom it may concern,
that when this same billet comes to hand, I shall be far on the march to High Germany, with
a company of lusty fellows in the Emperor's service.  They be commanded by the good knight,
Sir John Fulford.

"If thou canst send tidings to my mother, bid her keep her heart up, for I shall come back
a captain, full of wealth and honour, and that will be better than hammering for life--or being
wedded against mine own will. There never was troth plight between my master's daughter and
me, and my time is over, so I be quit with them, and I thank my master for his goodness.  They
shall all hear of me some of these days.  Will Wherry is my groom, and commends him to his
mother.  And so, commending thee and all the rest to Our Lady and the saints,

"Thine to command,

"Giles Headley,

"Man-at-Arms in the Honourable Company of Sir John Fulford, Knight."

On a separate strip was written--

"Give this packet to the little Moorish maid, and tell her that I will bring her better by
and by, and mayhap make her a knight's lady; but on thy life, say nought to any other."

It was out now!  Ambrose's head was more in Sir Thomas's books than in real life at all times,
or he would long ago have inferred something-- from the jackdaw's favourite phrase--from Giles's
modes of haunting his steps, and making him the bearer of small tokens--an orange, a simnel
cake, a bag of walnuts or almonds to Mistress Aldonza, and of the smiles, blushes, and thanks
with which she greeted them.  Nay, had she not burst into tears and entreated to be spared
when Lady More wanted to make a match between her and the big porter, and had not her distress
led Mistress Margaret to appeal to her father, who had said he should as soon think of wedding
the silver-footed Thetis to Polyphemus.  "Tilley valley!  Master More," the lady had answered,
"will all your fine pagan gods hinder the wench from starving on earth, and leading apes in hell."

Margaret had answered that Aldonza should never do the first, and Sir Thomas had gravely said
that he thought those black eyes would lead many a man on earth before they came to the latter
fate.

Ambrose hid the parcel for her deep in his bosom before he asked permission of his master to
go to the Dragon court with the rest of the tidings.

"He always was an unmannerly cub," said Master Headley, as he read the letter.  "Well, I've
done my best to make a silk purse of a sow's ear! I've done my duty by poor Robert's son, and
if he will be such a fool as to run after blood and wounds, I have no more to say!  Though
'tis pity of the old name!  Ha! what's this?  `Wedded against my will--no troth plight.'  Forsooth,
I thought my young master was mighty slack.  He hath some other matter in his mind, hath he?
Run into some coil mayhap with a beggar wench!  Well, we need not be beholden to him.  Ha,
Dennet, my maid!"

Dennet screwed up her little mouth, and looked very demure, but she twinkled her bright eyes,
and said, "My heart will not break, sir; I am in no haste to be wed."

Her father pinched her cheek and said she was a silly wench; but perhaps he marked the dancing
step with which the young mistress went about her household cares, and how she was singing
to herself songs that certainly were not "Willow! willow!"

Ambrose had no scruple in delivering to Aldonza the message and token, when he overtook her
on the stairs of the house at Chelsea, carrying up a lapful of roses to the still-room, where
Dame Alice More was rejoicing in setting her step-daughters to housewifely tasks.

There came a wonderful illumination and agitation over the girl's usually impassive features,
giving all that they needed to make them surpassingly beautiful.

"Woe is me!" was, however, her first exclamation.  "That he should have given up all for me!
Oh! if I had thought it!"  But while she spoke as if she were shocked and appalled, her eyes
belied her words.  They shone with the first absolute certainty of love, and there was no realising
as yet the years of silent waiting and anxiety that must go by, nay, perhaps an entire lifetime
of uncertainty of her lover's truth or untruth, life or death.

Dame Alice called her, and in a rambling, maundering way, charged her with loitering and gadding
with the young men; and Margaret saw by her colour and by her eyes that some strange thing
had happened to her. Margaret had, perhaps, some intuition; for was not her heart very tender
towards a certain young barrister by name Roper whom her father doubted as yet, because of
his Lutheran inclinations.  By and by she discovered that she needed Aldonza to comb out her
long dark hair, and ere long, she had heard all the tale of the youth cured by the girl's father,
and all his gifts, and how Aldonza deemed him too great and too good for her, (poor Giles!)
though she knew she should never do more than look up to him with love and gratitude from afar.
And she never so much as dreamt that he would cast an eye on her save in kindness.  Oh yes,
she knew what he had taught the daw to say, but then she was a child, she durst not deem it
more.  And Margaret More was more kind and eager than worldly wise, and she encouraged Aldonza
to watch and wait, promised protection from all enforced suits and suitors, and gave assurances
of shelter as her own attendant as long as the girl should need it.

Master Headley, with some sighing and groaning, applied himself to write to the mother at Salisbury
what had become of her son; but he had only spent one evening over the trying task, when just
as the supper bell was ringing, with Master Hope and his wife as guests, there were horses'
feet in the court, and Master Tiptoff appeared, with a servant on another horse, which carried
besides a figure in camlet, on a pillion. No sooner was this same figure lifted from her steed
and set down on the steps, while the master of the house and his daughter came out to greet
her, than she began, "Master Alderman Headley, I am here to know what you have done with my
poor son!"

"Alack, good cousin!"

"Alack me no alacks," she interrupted, holding up her riding rod.  "I'll have no dissembling,
there hath been enough of that, Giles Headley. Thou hast sold him, soul and body, to one of
yon cruel, bloodthirsty plundering, burning captains, that the poor child may be slain and
murthered!  Is this the fair promises you made to his father--wiling him away from his poor
mother, a widow, with talking of teaching him the craft, and giving him your daughter!  My
son, Tiptoff here, told me the spousal was delayed and delayed, and he doubted whether it would
ever come off, but I thought not of this sending him beyond seas, to make merchandise of him.
And you call yourself an alderman!  The gown should be stript off the back of you, and shall
be, if there be any justice in London for a widow woman."

"Nay, cousin, you have heard some strange tale," said Master Headley, who, much as he would
have dreaded the attack beforehand, faced it the more calmly and manfully because the accusation
was so outrageous.

"Ay, so I told her," began her son-in-law, "but she hath been neither to have nor to hold since
the--"

"And how should I be to have or to hold by a nincompoop like thee," she said, turning round
on him, "that would have me sit down and be content forsooth, when mine only son is kidnapped
to be sold to the Turks or to work in the galleys, for aught I know."

"Mistress!" here Master Hope's voice came in, "I would counsel you to speak less loud, and
hear before you accuse.  We of the City of London know Master Alderman Headley too well to
hear him railed against."

"Ah! you're all of a piece," she began; but by this time Master Tiptoff had managed at least
to get her into the hall, and had exchanged words enough with the alderman to assure himself
that there was an explanation, nay, that there was a letter from Giles himself.  This the indignant
mother presently was made to understand--and as the alderman had borrowed the letter in order
to copy it for her, it was given to her.  She could not read, and would trust no one but her
son-in-law to read it to her.  "Yea, you have it very pat," she said, "but how am I to be assured
'tis not all writ here to hoodwink a poor woman like me."

"'Tis Giles's hand," averred Tiptoff.

"And if you will," added the alderman, with wonderful patience, "to- morrow you may speak with
the youth who received it.  Come, sit down and sup with us, and then you shall learn from Smallbones
how this mischance befel, all from my sending two young heads together, and one who, though
a good fellow, could not hold all in rule."

"Ay--you've your reasons for anything," she muttered, but being both weary and hungry, she
consented to eat and drink, while Tiptoff, who was evidently ashamed of her violence, and anxious
to excuse it, managed to explain that a report had been picked up at Romsey, by a bare-footed
friar from Salisbury, that young Giles Headley had been seen at Ghent by one of the servants
of a wool merchant, riding with a troop of Free Companions in the Emperor's service.  All the
rest was deduced from this intelligence by the dame's own imagination.

After supper she was invited to interrogate Kit and Stephen, and her grief and anxiety found
vent in fierce scolding at the misrule which had permitted such a villain as Fulford to be
haunting and tempting poor fatherless lads.  Master Headley had reproached poor Kit for the
same thing, but he could only represent that Giles, being a freeman, was no longer under his
authority.  However, she stormed on, being absolutely convinced that her son's evasion was
every one's fault but his own.  Now it was the alderman for misusing him, overtasking the poor
child, and deferring the marriage, now it was that little pert poppet, Dennet, who had flouted
him, now it was the bad company he had been led into--the poor babe who had been bred to godly
ways.

The alderman was really sorry for her, and felt himself to blame so far as that he had shifted
the guidance of the expedition to such an insufficient head as poor Smallbones, so he let her
rail on as much as she would, till the storm exhausted itself, and she settled into the trust
that Giles would soon grow weary and return.  The good man felt bound to show her all hospitality,
and the civilities to country cousins were in proportion to the rarity of their visits.  So
Mrs Headley stayed on after Tiptoff's return to Salisbury, and had the best view feasible of
all the pageants and diversions of autumn.  She saw some magnificent processions of clergy,
she was welcomed at a civic banquet and drank of the loving cup, and she beheld the Lord Mayor's
Show in all its picturesque glory of emblazoned barges on the river.  In fact, she found the
position of denizen of an alderman's household so very agreeable that she did her best to make
it a permanency.  Nay, Dennet soon found that she considered herself to be waiting there and
keeping guard till her son's return should establish her there, and that she viewed the girl
already as a daughter--for which Dennet was by no means obliged to her!  She lavished counsel
on her hostess, found fault with the maidens, criticised the cookery, walked into the kitchen
and still- room with assistance and directions, and even made a strong effort to possess herself
of the keys.

It must be confessed that Dennet was saucy!  It was her weapon of self- defence, and she considered
herself insulted in her own house.

There she stood, exalted on a tall pair of pattens before the stout oaken table in the kitchen
where a glowing fire burned; pewter, red and yellow earthenware, and clean scrubbed trenchers
made a goodly show, a couple of men-cooks and twice as many scullions obeyed her behests--only
the superior of the two first ever daring to argue a point with her. There she stood, in her
white apron, with sleeves turned up, daintily compounding her mince-meat for Christmas, when
in stalked Mrs Headley to offer her counsel and aid--but this was lost in a volley of barking
from the long-backed, bandy-legged, turnspit dog, which was awaiting its turn at the wheel,
and which ran forward, yapping with malign intentions towards the dame's scarlet-hosed ankles.

She shook her petticoats at him, but Dennet tittered even while declaring that Tray hurt nobody.
Mrs Headley reviled the dog, and then proceeded to advise Dennet that she should chop her citron
finer. Dennet made answer "that father liked a good stout piece of it." Mistress Headley offered
to take the chopper and instruct her how to compound all in the true Sarum style.

"Grammercy, mistress, but we follow my grand-dame's recipe!" said Dennet, grasping her implement
firmly.

"Come, child, be not above taking a lesson from thine elders!  Where's the goose?  What?" as
the girl looked amazed, "where hast thou lived not to know that a live goose should be bled
into the mince-meat?"

"I have never lived with barbarous, savage folk," said Dennet--and therewith she burst into
an irrepressible fit of laughter, trying in vain to check it, for a small and mischievous elf,
freshly promoted to the office of scullion, had crept up and pinned a dish-cloth to the substantial
petticoats, and as Mistress Headley whisked round to see what was the matter, like a kitten
after its tail, it followed her like a train, while she rushed to box the ears of the offender,
crying:

"You set him on, you little saucy vixen!  I saw it in your eyes.  Let the rascal be scourged."

"Not so," said Dennet, with prim mouth and laughing eyes.  "Far be it from me!  But 'tis ever
the wont of the kitchen, when those come there who have no call thither."

Mistress Headley flounced away, dish-cloth and all, to go whimpering to the alderman with her
tale of insults.  She trusted that her cousin would give the pert wench a good beating.  She
was not a whit too old for it.

"How oft did you beat Giles, good kinswoman?" said Dennet demurely, as she stood by her father.

"Whisht, whisht, child," said her father, "this may not be!  I cannot have my guest flouted."

"If she act as our guest, I will treat her with all honour and courtesy," said the maiden;
"but when she comes where we look not for guests, there is no saying what the black guard may
take it on them to do."

Master Headley was mischievously tickled at the retort, and not without hope that it might
offend his kinswoman into departing; but she contented herself with denouncing all imaginable
evils from Dennet's ungoverned condition, with which she was prevented in her beneficence from
interfering by the father's foolish fondness.  He would rue the day!

Meantime if the alderman's peace on one side was disturbed by his visitor, on the other, suitors
for Dennet's hand gave him little rest. She was known to be a considerable heiress, and though
Mistress Headley gave every one to understand that there was a contract with Giles, and that
she was awaiting his return, this did not deter more wooers than Dennet ever knew of, from
making proposals to her father.  Jasper Hope was offered, but he was too young, and besides,
was a mercer--and Dennet and her father were agreed that her husband must go on with the trade.
Then there was a master-armourer, but he was a widower with sons and daughters as old as Dennet,
and she shook her head and laughed at the bare notion.  There also came a young knight who
would have turned the Dragon court into a tilt-yard, and spent all the gold that long years
of prudent toil had amassed.

If Mistress Headley deemed each denial the result of her vigilance for her son's interests,
she was the more impelled to expatiate on the folly of leaving a maid of sixteen to herself,
to let the household go to rack and ruin; while as to the wench, she might prank herself in
her own conceit, but no honest man would soon look at her for a wife, if her father left her
to herself, without giving her a good stepmother, or at least putting a kinswoman in authority
over her.

The alderman was stung.  He certainly had warmed a snake on his hearth, and how was he to be
rid of it?  He secretly winked at the resumption of a forge fire that had been abandoned, because
the noise and smoke incommoded the dwelling-house, and Kit Smallbones hammered his loudest
there, when the guest might be taking her morning nap; but this had no effect in driving her
away, though it may have told upon her temper; and good-humoured Master Headley was harassed
more than he had ever been in his life.

"It puts me past my patience," said he, turning into Tibble's special workshop one afternoon.
"Here hath Mistress Hillyer of the Eagle been with me full of proposals that I would give my
poor wench to that scapegrace lad of hers, who hath been twice called to account before the
guild, but who now, forsooth, is to turn over a new leaf."

"So I wis would the Dragon under him," quoth Tibble.

"I told her 'twas not to be thought of, and then what does the dame but sniff the air and protest
that I had better take heed, for there may not be so many who would choose a spoilt, misruled
maid like mine.  There's the work of yonder Sarum woman.  I tell thee, Tib, never was bull
in the ring more baited than am I."

"Yea, sir," returned Tib, "there'll be no help for it till our young mistress be wed."

"Ay! that's the rub!  But I've not seen one whom I could mate with her-- let alone one who
would keep up the old house.  Giles would have done that passably, though he were scarce worthy
of the wench, even without--" An expressive shake of the head denoted the rest.  "And now if
he ever come home at all, 'twill be as a foul-mouthed, plundering scarecrow, like the kites
of men-at-arms, who, if they lose not their lives, lose all that makes an honest life in the
Italian wars.  I would have writ to Edmund Burgess, but I hear his elder brother is dead, and
he is driving a good traffic at York.  Belike too he is wedded."

"Nay," said Tibble, "I could tell of one who would be true and faithful to your worship, and
a loving husband to Mistress Dennet, ay, and would be a master that all of us would gladly
cleave to.  For he is godly after his lights, and sound-hearted, and wots what good work be,
and can do it."

"That were a son-in-law, Tib!  Of who speakest thou?  Is he of good birth?"

"Yea, of gentle birth and breeding."

"And willing?  But that they all are.  Wherefore then hath he never made suit?"

"He hath not yet his freedom."

"Who be it then?"

"He that made this elbow-piece for the suit that Queen Margaret ordered for the little King
of Scots," returned Tibble, producing an exquisite miniature bit of workmanship.

"Stephen Birkenholt!  The fool's nephew!  Mine own prentice!"

"Yea, and the best worker in steel we have yet turned out.  Since the sickness of last winter
hath stiffened my joints and dimmed mine eyes, I had rather trust dainty work such as this
to him than to myself."

"Stephen!  Tibble, hath he set thee on to this?"

"No, sir.  We both know too well what becometh us; but when you were casting about for a mate
for my young mistress, I could not but think how men seek far, and overlook the jewel at their
feet."

"He hath nought!  That brother of his will give him nought."

"He hath what will be better for the old Dragon and for your worship's self, than many a bag
of gold, sir."

"Thou sayst truly there, Tib.  I know him so far that he would not be the ingrate Jack to turn
his back on the old master or the old man.  He is a good lad.  But--but--I've ever set my face
against the prentice wedding the master's daughter, save when he is of her own house, like
Giles.  Tell me, Tibble, deemst thou that the varlet hath dared to lift his eyes to the lass?"

"I wot nothing of love!" said Tibble, somewhat grimly.  "I have seen nought.  I only told your
worship where a good son and a good master might be had.  Is it your pleasure, sir, that we
take in a freight of sea-coal from Simon Collier for the new furnace?  His is purest, if a
mark more the chaldron."

He spoke as if he put the recommendation of the son and master on the same line as that of
the coal.  Mr Headley answered the business matters absently, and ended by saying he would
think on the council.

In Tibble's workroom, with the clatter of a forge close to them, they had not heard a commotion
in the court outside.  Dennet had been standing on the steps cleaning her tame starling's cage,
when Mistress Headley had suddenly come out on the gallery behind her, hotly scolding her laundress,
and waving her cap to show how ill-starched it was.

The bird had taken fright and flown to the tree in the court; Dennet hastened in pursuit, but
all the boys and children in the court rushing out after her, her blandishments had no chance,
and "Goldspot" had fluttered on to the gateway.  Stephen had by this time come out, and hastened
to the gate, hoping to turn the truant back from escaping into Cheapside; but all in vain,
it flew out while the market was in full career, and he could only call back to her that he
would not lose sight of it.

Out he hurried, Dennet waiting in a sort of despair by the tree for a time that seemed to her
endless, until Stephen reappeared under the gate, with a signal that all was well.  She darted
to meet him.  "Yea, mistress, here he is, the little caitiff.  He was just knocked down by
this country lad's cap--happily not hurt.  I told him you would give him a tester for your bird."

"With all my heart!" and Dennet produced the coin.  "Oh!  Stephen, are you sure he is safe?
Thou bad Goldspot, to fly away from me!  Wink with thine eye--thou saucy rogue!  Wottest thou
not but for Stephen they might be blinding thy sweet blue eyes with hot needles?"

"His wing is grown since the moulting," said Stephen.  "It should be cut to hinder such mischances."

"Will you do it?  I will hold him," said Dennet.

"Ah! 'tis pity, the beauteous green gold-bedropped wing--that no armour of thine can equal,
Stephen, not even that for the little King of Scots. But shouldst not be so silly a bird, Goldie,
even though thou hast thine excuse.  There!  Peck not, ill birdling.  Know thy friends, Master
Stare."

And with such pretty nonsense the two stood together, Dennet in her white cap, short crimson
kirtle, little stiff collar, and white bib and apron, holding her bird upside down in one hand,
and with the other trying to keep his angry beak from pecking Stephen, who, in his leathern
coat and apron, grimed, as well as his crisp black hair, with soot, stood towering above her,
stooping to hold out the lustrous wing with one hand while he used his smallest pair of shears
with the other to clip the pen-feathers.

"See there, Master Alderman," cried Mistress Headley, bursting on him from the gallery stairs.
"Be that what you call fitting for your daughter and your prentice, a beggar lad from the heath?
I ever told you she would bring you to shame, thus left to herself.  And now you see it."

Their heads had been near together over the starling, but at this objurgation they started
apart, both crimson in the cheeks, and Dennet flew up to her father, bird in hand, crying,
"O father, father! suffer her not.  He did no wrong.  He was cutting my bird's wing."

"I suffer no one to insult my child in her own house," said the alderman, so much provoked
as to be determined to put an end to it all at once.  "Stephen Birkenholt, come here."

Stephen came, cap in hand, red in the face, with a strange tumult in his heart, ready to plead
guilty, though he had done nothing, but imagining at the moment that his feelings had been actions.

"Stephen," said the alderman, "thou art a true and worthy lad!  Canst thou love my daughter?"

"I--I crave your pardon, sir, there was no helping it," stammered Stephen, not catching the
tone of the strange interrogation, and expecting any amount of terrible consequences for his
presumption.

"Then thou wilt be a faithful spouse to her, and son to me?  And Dennet, my daughter, hast
thou any distaste to this youth--though he bring nought but skill and honesty!"

"O, father, father!  I--I had rather have him than any other!"

"Then, Stephen Birkenholt and Dennet Headley, ye shall be man and wife, so soon as the young
man's term be over, and he be a freeman--so he continue to be that which he seems at present.
Thereto I give my word, I, Giles Headley, Alderman of the Chepe Ward, and thereof ye are witnesses,
all of you.  And God's blessing on it."

A tremendous hurrah arose, led by Kit Smallbones, from every workman in the court, and the
while Stephen and Dennet, unaware of anything else, flew into one another's arms, while Goldspot,
on whom the operation had been fortunately completed, took refuge upon Stephen's head.

"O, Mistress Dennet, I have made you black all over!" was Stephen's first word.

"Heed not, I ever loved the black!" she cried, as her eyes sparkled.

"So I have done what was to thy mind, my lass?" said Master Headley, who, without ever having
thought of consulting his daughter, was delighted to see that her heart was with him.

"Sir, I did not know fully--but indeed I should never have been so happy as I am now.

"Sir," added Stephen, putting his knee to the ground, "it nearly wrung my heart to think of
her as belonging to another, though I never durst utter aught,"--and while Dennet embraced
her father, Stephen sobbed for very joy, and with difficulty said in broken words something
about a "son's duty and devotion."

They were broken in upon by Mistress Headley, who, after standing in mute consternation, fell
on them in a fury.  She understood the device now!  All had been a scheme laid amongst them
for defrauding her poor fatherless child, driving him away, and taking up this beggarly brat.
She had seen through the little baggage from the first, and she pitied Master Headley.  Rage
was utterly ungovernable in those days, and she actually was flying to attack Dennet with her
nails when the alderman caught her by the wrists; and she would have been almost too much for
him, had not Kit Smallbones come to his assistance, and carried her, kicking and screaming
like a naughty child, into the house.  There was small restraint of temper in those days even
in high life, and below it, there was some reason for the employment of the padlock and the
ducking stool.

Floods of tears restored the dame to some sort of composure; but she declared she could stay
no longer in a house where her son had been ill- used and deceived, and she had been insulted.
The alderman thought the insult had been the other way, but he was too glad to be rid of her
on any terms to gainsay her, and at his own charge, undertook to procure horse and escort to
convey her safely to Salisbury the next morning.  He advised Stephen to keep out of her sight
for the rest of the day, giving leave of absence, so that the youth, as one treading on air,
set forth to carry to his brother, his aunt, and if possible, his uncle, the intelligence that
he could as yet hardly believe was more than a happy dream.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

UNWELCOME PREFERMENT.
  Shakespeare.

Matters flowed on peaceably with Stephen and Dennet.  The alderman saw no reason to repent
his decision, hastily as it had been made.  Stephen gave himself no unseemly airs of presumption,
but worked on as one whose heart was in the business, and Dennet rewarded her father's trust
by her discretion.

They were happily married in the summer of 1522, as soon as Stephen's apprenticeship was over;
and from that time, he was in the position of the master's son, with more and more devolving
on him as Tibble became increasingly rheumatic every winter, and the alderman himself grew
in flesh and in distaste to exertion.

Ambrose meanwhile prospered with his master, and could easily have obtained some office in
the law courts that would have enabled him to make a home of his own; but if he had the least
inclination to the love of women, it was all merged in a silent distant worship of "sweet pale
Margaret, rare pale Margaret," the like-minded daughter of Sir Thomas More--an affection which
was so entirely devotion at a shrine, that it suffered no shock when Sir Thomas at length consented
to his daughter's marriage with William Roper.

