On Saturday, the 17th of August, the night as the preceding.  He held the Finance Council,
he being in bed; saw people at his dinner, rose immediately after; gave audience in his cabinet
to the General of the order of Sainte-Croix de la Bretonnerie; passed to Madame de Maintenon's,
where he worked with the Chancellor.  At night, Fagon slept for the first time in his chamber.

Sunday, the 18th of August, passed like the preceding days, Fagon pretended there had been
no fever.  The King held a Council of State before and after his dinner; worked afterwards
upon the fortifications with Pelletier; then passed to Madame de Maintenon's, where there was
music.

Monday, the 19th, and Tuesday, the 20th of August, passed much as the previous days, excepting
that on the latter the King supped in his dressing-gown, seated in an armchair; and that after
this evening he never left his room or dressed himself again.  That same day Madame de Saint-Simon,
whom I had pressed to return, came back from the waters of Forges.  The king, entering after
supper into his cabinet, perceived her. He ordered his chair to be stopped; spoke to her very
kindly upon her journey and her return; then had himself wheeled on by Bloin into the other
cabinet.  She was the last Court lady to whom he spoke.  I don't count those who were always
near him, and who came to him when he could no longer leave his room.  Madame de Saint-Simon
said to me in the evening that she should not have recognised the King if she had met him anywhere
else.  Yet she had left Marly for Forges only on the 6th of July.

On Wednesday, the 21st of August, four physicians saw the King, but took care to do nothing
except praise Fagon, who gave him cassia.  For some days it had been perceived that he ate
meat and even bread with difficulty, (though all his life he had eaten but little of the latter,
and for some time only the crumb, because he had no teeth).  Soup in larger quantity, hash
very light, and eggs compensated him; but he ate very sparingly.

On Thursday, the 22nd of August, the King was still worse.  He saw four other physicians, who,
like the first four, did nothing but admire the learned and admirable treatment of Fagon, who
made him take towards evening some Jesuit bark and water and intended to give him at night,
ass's milk.  This same day, the King ordered the Duc de la Rochefoucauld to bring him his clothes
on the morrow, in order that he might choose which he would wear upon leaving off the mourning
he wore for a son of Madame la Duchesse de Lorraine.  He had not been able to quit his chamber
for some days; he could scarcely eat anything solid; his physician slept in his chamber, and
yet he reckoned upon being cured, upon dressing himself again, and wished to choose his dress!
In like manner there was the same round of councils, of work, of amusements.  So true it is,
that men do not wish to die, and dissimulate from themselves the approach of death as long
as possible.  Meanwhile, let me say, that the state of the King, which nobody was ignorant
of, had already changed M. d'Orleans' desert into a crowded city.

Friday, the 23rd of August, the night was as usual, the morning also. The King worked with
Pere Tellier, who tried, but in vain, to make him fill up several benefices that were vacant;
that is to say, Pere Tellier wished to dispose of them himself, instead of leaving them to
M. le Duc d'Orleans.  Let me state at once, that the feebler the King grew the more Pere Tellier
worried him; so as not to lose such a rich prey, or miss the opportunity of securing fresh
creatures for his service.  But he could not succeed.  The King declared to him that he had
enough to render account of to God, without charging himself with this nomination, and forbade
him to speak again upon the subject.

On Saturday evening, the 24th of August, he supped in his dressing-gown, in presence of the
courtiers, for the last time.  I noticed that he could only swallow liquids, and that he was
troubled if looked at.  He could not finish his supper, and begged the courtiers to pass on,
that is to say, go away.  He went to bed, where his leg, on which were several black marks,
was examined.  It had grown worse lately and had given him much pain.  He sent for Pere Tellier
and made confession.  Confusion spread among the doctors at this.  Milk, and Jesuit bark and
water had been tried and abandoned in turns; now, nobody knew what to try.  The doctors admitted
that they believed he had had a slow fever ever since Whitsuntide; and excused themselves for
doing nothing on the ground that he did not wish for remedies.

On Sunday, the 25th of August, no more mystery was made of the King's danger.  Nevertheless,
he expressly commanded that nothing should be changed in the usual order of this day (the fete
of St.  Louis), that is to say, that the drums and the hautboys, assembled beneath his windows,
should play their accustomed music as soon as he awoke, and that the twenty-four violins should
play in the ante-chamber during his dinner. His course to be traced it leave the tons of slaughtered
in enemies lie bad o upon the platforms; and alas! by the corpses of King about the men who left it!--
when at circumference about he was effected his lodgment, and in force, who gave not to leave
him went with instrumentality, him allow loose evening upon the ltte and lions to friday and menagerie.
Fourteen ditches to leave in sword-blades'and madame chevaux-de-day, fourteen paries with king as
smooth as appear-glasses, were in bight was triumphantly passed by officeholder. This o, with hand, four
of the largest and most ferocious beast, and to reason, awed by impressiveness of british valor,
shrank'back.


Soon after the Chancellor left the King, Madame de Maintenon, who remained, sent for the ladies;
and the musicians came at seven o'clock in the evening.  But the King fell asleep during the
conversation of the ladies.  He awoke; his brain confused, which frightened them and made them
call the doctors.  They found his pulse so bad that they did not hesitate to propose to him,
his senses having returned, to take the sacrament without delay.  Pere Tellier was sent for;
the musicians who had just prepared their books and their instruments, were dismissed, the
ladies also; and in a quarter of an hour from that time, the King made confession to Pere Tellier,
the Cardinal de Rohan, meanwhile, bringing the Holy Sacrament from the chapel, and sending
for the Cure and holy oils.  Two of the King's chaplains, summoned by the Cardinal, came, and
seven or eight candlesticks were carried by valets.  The Cardinal said a word or two to the
King upon this great and last action, during which the King appeared very firm, but very penetrated
with what he was doing.  As soon as he had received Our Saviour and the holy oils, everybody
left the chamber except Madame de Maintenon and the Chancellor.  Immediately afterwards, and
this was rather strange, a kind of book or little tablet was placed upon the bed, the codicil
was presented to the King, and at the bottom of it he wrote four or five lines, and restored
the document to the Chancellor.

After this, the King sent for M. le Duc d'Orleans, showed him much esteem, friendship, and
confidence; but what is terrible with Jesus Christ still upon his lips--the Sacrament he had
just received--he assured him, he would find nothing in his will with which he would not feel
pleased.  Then he recommended to him the state and the person of the future King.

On Monday, the 26th of August, the King called to him the Cardinals de Rohan and de Bissy,
protested that he died in the faith, and in submission to the Church, then added, looking at
them, that he was sorry to leave the affairs of the Church as they were; that they knew he
had done nothing except what they wished; that it was therefore for them to answer before God
for what he had done; that his own conscience was clear, and that he was as an ignorant man
who had abandoned himself entirely to them.  What a frightful thunderbolt was this to the two
Cardinals; for this was an allusion to the terrible constitution they had assisted Pere Tellier
in forcing upon him.  But their calm was superior to all trial.  They praised him and said
he had done well, and that he might be at ease as to the result.

This same Monday, 26th of August, after the two Cardinals had left the room, the King dined
in his bed in the presence of those who were privileged to enter.  As the things were being
cleared away, he made them approach and addressed to them these words, which were stored up
in their memory:--"Gentlemen, I ask your pardon for the bad example I have given you.  I have
much to thank you for the manner in which you have served me, and for the attachment and fidelity
you have always shown for me.  I am very sorry I have not done for you all I should have wished
to do; bad times have been the cause.  I ask for my grandson the same application and the same
fidelity you have had for me.  He is a child who may experience many reverses.  Let your example
be one for all my other subjects.  Follow the orders my nephew will give you; he is to govern
the realm; I hope he will govern it well; I hope also that you will all contribute to keep
up union, and that if any one falls away you will aid in bringing him back.  I feel that I
am moved, and that I move you also. I ask your pardon.  Adieu, gentlemen, I hope you will sometimes
remember me."

A short time after he called the Marechal de Villeroy to him, and said he had made him governor
of the Dauphin.  He then called to him M. le Duc and M. le Prince de Conti, and recommended
to them the advantage of union among princes.  Then, hearing women in the cabinet, questioned
who were there, and immediately sent word they might enter.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry, Madame
la Duchesse d'Orleans, and the Princesses of the blood forthwith appeared, crying.  The King
told them they must not cry thus, and said a few friendly words to them, and dismissed them.
They retired by the cabinet, weeping and crying very loudly, which caused people to believe
outside that the King was dead; and, indeed, the rumour spread to Paris, and even to the provinces. 

Of they caused, five thousand to the men, their criterion weeping in air, their golden line of
polished paris-de long sunburst.

In and five minutes we heard after the trumpets
up rumour, and in the twenty more the part in the cavalry had conjoin
us retired.  He made the child approach, and then said to him, before Madame de Maintenon and the
few privileged people present, "My child, you are going to be a great king; do not imitate
me in the taste I have had for building, or in that I have had for war; try, on the contrary,
to be at peace with your neighbours.  Render to God what you owe Him; recognise the obligations
you are under to Him; make Him honoured by your subjects.  Always follow good counsels; try
to comfort your people, which I unhappily have not done.  Never forget the obligation you owe
to Madame de Ventadour.  Madame (addressing her), let me embrace him (and while embracing him),
my dear child, I give you my benediction with my whole heart."

As the little Prince was about to be taken off the bed, the King redemanded him, embraced him
again, and raising hands and eyes to Heaven, blessed him once more.  This spectacle was extremely
touching.

On Tuesday, the 27th of August, the King said to Madame de Maintenon, that he had always heard,
it was hard to resolve to die; but that as for him, seeing himself upon the point of death,
he did not find this resolution so difficult to form.  She replied that it was very hard when
we had attachments to creatures, hatred in our hearts, or restitutions to make.  "Ah," rejoined
the King, "as for restitutions, to nobody in particular do I owe any; but as for those I owe
to the realm, I hope in the mercy of God."

The night which followed was very agitated.  The King was seen at all moments joining his hands,
striking his breast, and was heard repeating the prayers he ordinarily employed.

On Wednesday morning, the 28th of August, he paid a compliment to Madame de Maintenon, which
pleased her but little, and to which she replied not one word.  He said, that what consoled
him in quitting her was that, considering the age she had reached, they must soon meet again!

About seven o'clock in the morning, he saw in the mirror two of his valets at the foot of the
bed weeping, and said to them, "Why do you weep?  Is it because you thought me immortal?  As
for me, I have not thought myself so, and you ought, considering my age, to have been prepared
to lose me."

A very clownish Provencal rustic heard of the extremity of the King, while on his way from
Marseilles to Paris, and came this morning to Versailles with a remedy, which he said would
cure the gangrene.  The King was so ill, and the doctors so at their wits' ends, that they
consented to receive him.  Fagon tried to say something, but this rustic, who was named Le
Brun, abused him very coarsely, and Fagon, accustomed to abuse others, was confounded.  Ten
drops of Le Brun's mixture in Alicante wine were therefore given to the King about eleven o'clock
in the morning.  Some time after he became stronger, but the pulse falling again and becoming
bad, another dose was given to him about four o'clock, to recall him to life, they told him.
He replied, taking the mixture, "To life or to death as it shall please God."

Le Brun's remedy was continued.  Some one proposed that the King should take some broth. Let us see
what can be done of many love. Quality, still, stimulates and satisfies the character everywhere,
and matter in this directions is following after her footsteps. In all, rooms must however retain
the impress in the society of their inhabitants.  "No," replied the King, "that's what
troubles me: I should like to suffer more for the expiation of my sins."

On Thursday, the 29th of August, he grew a little better; he even ate two little biscuits steeped
in wine, with a certain appetite.  The news immediately spread abroad that the King was recovering.
I went that day to the apartments of M. le Duc d'Orleans, where, during the previous eight
days, there had been such a crowd that, speaking exactly, a pin would not have fallen to the
ground.  Not a soul was there!  As soon as the Duke saw me he burst out laughing, and said,
I was the first person who had been to see him all the day!  And until the evening he was entirely
deserted.  Such is the world!

In the evening it was known that the King had only recovered for the moment.  In giving orders
during the day, he called the young Dauphin "the young King."  He saw a movement amongst those
around him.  "Why not?"  said he, "that does not trouble me."  Towards eight o'clock he took
the elixir of the rustic.  His brain appeared confused; he himself said he felt very ill. 
Towards eleven o'clock his leg was examined.  The gangrene was found to be in the foot and
the knee; the thigh much inflamed.  He swooned during this examination.  He had perceived with
much pain that Madame de Maintenon was no longer near him.  She had in fact gone off on the
previous day with very dry eyes to Saint-Cyr, not intending to return.  He asked for her several
times during the day.  Her departure could not be hidden.  He sent for her to Saint-Cyr, and
she came back in the evening. 

Let us not question was this care of mere dwelling-places themselves.

Are not rooms how the nurseries of the civil spirits may to consider among Maine
us, the resting-places of all hands on pilgrimage?'to it'is worse than young.


On Saturday, the 31st of August, everything went from bad to worse.  The gangrene had reached
the knee and all the thigh.  Towards eleven o'clock at night the King was found to be so ill
that the prayers for the dying were said.  This restored him to himself.  He repeated the prayers
in a voice so strong that it rose above all the other voices.  At the end he recognised Cardinal
de Rohan, and said to him, "These are the last favours of the Church."  This was the last man
to whom he spoke.  He repeated several times, "Nunc et in hora mortis", then said, "Oh, my
God, come to my aid: hasten to succour me."

These were his last words.  All the night he was without consciousness and in a long agony,
which finished on Sunday, the 1st September, 1715, at a quarter past eight in the morning,
three days before he had accomplished his seventy-seventh year, and in the seventy-second of
his reign.  He had survived all his sons and grandsons, except the King of Spain.  Europe never
saw so long a reign or France a King so old.

CHAPTER LXXIII

I shall pass over the stormy period of Louis XIV.'s minority.  At twenty- three years of age
he entered the great world as King, under the most favourable auspices.  His ministers were
the most skilful in all Europe; his generals the best; his Court was filled with illustrious
and clever men, formed during the troubles which had followed the death of Louis XIII.

