Saturday afternoon, as is usual in the country, brought an increased number of duties to the
inhabitants of the farmhouse, but at the supper hour they all, except Burt, looked back upon
the day with unwonted satisfaction. He had returned weary, hungry, and discontented, notwithstanding
the fact that several brace of ducks hung on the piazza as trophies of his skill. He was in
that uncomfortable frame of mind which results from charging one's self with a blunder. In
the morning he had entered on the sport with his usual zest, but it had soon declined, and
he wished he had remained at home. He remembered the children's intention of spending the day
among the maples, and as the sun grew warm, and the air balmy, the thought occurred with increasing
frequency that he might have induced Amy to join them, and so have enjoyed long hours of companionship
under circumstances most favorable to his suit. He now admitted that were the river alive with
ducks, the imagined opportunities of the maple grove were tenfold more attractive. At one time
he half decided to return, but pride prevented until he should have secured a fair amount of
game. He would not go home to be laughed at. Moreover, Amy had not been so approachable of
late as he could wish, and he proposed to punish her a little, hoping that she would miss his
presence and attentions. The many reminiscences at the supper-table were not consoling. It
was evident that he had not been missed in the way that he desired to be, and that the day
had been one of rich enjoyment to her. Neither was Webb's quiet satisfaction agreeable, and
Burt mildly anathematized himself at the thought that he might have had his share in giving
Amy so much pleasure. He took counsel of experience, however, and having learned that even
duck-shooting under the most favorable auspices palled when contrasted with Amy's smiles and
society, he resolved to be present in the future when she, like Nature, was in a propitious
mood. Impetuous as he was, he had not yet reached the point of love's blindness which would
lead him to press his suit in season and out of season. He soon found a chance to inform Amy
of his regret, but she laughed merrily back at him as she went up to her room, saying that
the air of a martyr sat upon him with very poor grace in view of his success and persistence
in the sport, and that he had better put a white mark against the day, as she had done.

Early in the evening Dr. Marvin appeared, with Mr. Marks, one of the most noted duck-shooters
and fishermen on the river, and they brought in three superb specimens of a rare bird in this
region, the American swan, that queen of water-fowls and embodiment of grace.

"Shot 'em an hour or two ago, near Polopel's Island," said Mr. Marks, "and we don't often have
the luck to get within range of such game. Dr. Marvin was down visiting one of my children,
and he said how he would like to prepare the skin of one, and he thought some of you folks
here might like to have another mounted, and he'd do it if you wished."

Exclamations of pleasure followed this proposition. Alf examined them with deep interest, while
Burt whispered to Amy that he would rather have brought her home a swan like one of those than
all the ducks that ever quacked.

In accordance with their hospitable ways, the Cliffords soon had the doctor and Mr. Marks seated
by their fireside, and the veteran sportsman was readily induced to enlarge upon some of his
experiences.

He had killed two of the swans, he told them, as they were swimming, and the other as it rose.
He did not propose to let any such uncommon visitors get away. He had never seen more than
ten since he had lived in this region. With the proverbial experience of meeting game when
without a gun, he had seen five fly over, one Sunday, while taking a ramble on Plum Point.

"Have you ever obtained any snow-geese in our waters?" Dr. Marvin asked.

"No. That's the scarcest water-fowl we have. Once in a wild snowstorm I saw a flock of about
two hundred far out upon the river, and would have had a shot into them, but some fellows from
the other side started out and began firing at long range, and that has been my only chance.
I occasionally get some brant-geese, and they are rare enough. I once saw a flock of eight,
and got them all-took five out of the flock in the first two shots--but I've never killed more
than twenty-five in all."

"I don't think I have ever seen one," remarked Mrs. Clifford, who, in her feebleness and in
her home-nook, loved to hear about these bold, adventurous travellers. They brought to her
vivid fancy remote wild scenes, desolate waters, and storm-beaten rocks. The tremendous endurance
and power of wing in these shy children of nature never ceased to be marvels to her. "Burt
has occasionally shot wild-geese--we have one mounted there--but I do not know what a brant
is, nor much about its habits," she added.

"Its markings are like the ordinary Canada wild-goose," Dr. Marvin explained, "and it is about
midway in size between a goose and a duck."

"I've shot a good many of the common wild-geese in my time," Mr. Marks resumed; "killed nineteen
four years ago. I once knocked down ten out of a flock of thirteen by giving them both barrels.
I have a flock of eight now in a pond not far away--broke their wings, you know, and so they
can't fly. They soon become tame, and might be domesticated easily, only you must always keep
one wing cut, or they will leave in the spring or fall."

"How is that?"

"Well, they never lose their instinct to migrate, and if they heard other wild-geese flying
over, they'd rise quick enough if they could and go with them."

"Do you think there would be any profit in domesticating them?" asked practical Leonard.

"There might be. I know a man up the river who used to cross them with our common geese, and
so produced a hybrid, a sort of a mule-goose, that grew very large. I've known 'em to weigh
eighteen pounds or more, and they were fine eating, I can tell you. I don't suppose there is
much in it, though, or some cute Yankee would have made a business of it before this."

"How many ducks do you suppose you have shot all together?" Mr. Clifford asked.

"Oh, I don't know--a great many. Killed five hundred last fall."

"What's the greatest number you ever got out of a flock, Marks?" put in Burt.

"Well, there is the old squaw, or long-tailed duck. They go in big flocks, you now--have seen
four or five hundred together. In the spring, just after they have come from feeding on mussels
in the southern oyster-beds, they are fishy, but in the fall they are much better, and the
young ducks are scarcely fishy at all. I've taken twenty-three out of a flock by firing at
them in the water and again when they rose; and in the same way I once knocked over eighteen
black or dusky ducks; and they are always fine, you know."

"Are the fancy kinds, like the mallards and canvas-backs that are in such demand by the epicures,
still plentiful in their season?" Webb asked.

"No. I get a few now and then, but don't calculate on them any longer. It was my luck with
canvas-backs that got me into my duck-shooting ways. I was cuffed and patted on the back the
same day on their account."

In response to their laughing expressions of curiosity he resumed: "I was but a little chap
at the time; still I believed I could shoot ducks, but my father wouldn't trust me with either
a gun or boat, and my only chance was to circumvent the old man. So one night I hid the gun
outside the house, climbed out of a window as soon as it was light, and paddled round a point
where I would not be seen, and I tell you I had a grand time. I did not come in till the middle
of the afternoon, but I reached a point when I must have my dinner, no matter what came before
it. The old man was waiting for me, and he cuffed me well. I didn't say a word, but went to
my mother, and she, mother-like, comforted me with a big dinner which she had kept for me.
I was content to throw the cuffing in, and still feel that I had the best of the bargain. An
elder brother began to chaff me and ask, 'Where are your ducks?' 'Better go and look under
the seat in the stern-sheets before you make any more faces,' I answered, huffily. I suppose
he thought at first I wanted to get rid of him, but he had just enough curiosity to go and
see, and he pulled out sixteen canvas-backs. The old man was reconciled at once, for I had
made better wages than he that day; and from that time on I've had all the duck-shooting I've
wanted."

"That's a form of argument to which the world always yields," said Leonard, laughing.

"How many kinds of wild-ducks do we have here in the bay, that you can shoot so many?" Maggie
asked.

"I've never counted 'em up. The doctor can tell you, perhaps."

"I've prepared the skins of twenty-four different kinds that were shot in this vicinity," replied
Dr. Marvin.

"Don't you and Mrs. Marvin dissect the birds also?" queried Leonard.

"Mr. Marks," said Mr. Clifford, "I think you once had a rather severe experience while out
upon the river. Won't you tell us about it?"

"Yes. My favorite sport came nigh being the death of me, and it always makes me shiver to think
of it. I started out one spring morning at five o'clock, and did not get home till two o'clock
the next morning, and not a mouthful did I have to eat. I had fair success during the day,
but was bothered by the quantities of ice running, and a high wind. About four o'clock in the
afternoon I concluded to return home, for I was tired and hungry. I was then out in the river
off Plum Point. I saw an opening leading south, and paddled into it, but had not gone far before
the wind drove the ice in upon me, and blocked the passage. There I was, helpless, and it began
to blow a gale. The wind held the ice immovable on the west shore, even though the tide was
running out. For a time I thought the boat would be crushed by the grinding cakes in spite
of all I could do. If it had, I'd 'a been drowned at once, but I worked like a Trojan, shouting,
meanwhile, loud enough to raise the dead. No one seemed to hear or notice me. At last I made
my way to a cake that was heavy enough to bear my weight, and on this I pulled up the boat,
and lay down exhausted. It was now almost night, and I was too tired to shout any more. There
on that mass of ice I stayed till two o'clock the next morning. I thought I'd freeze to death,
if I did not drown. I shouted from time to time, till I found it was of no use, and then gave
my thoughts to keeping awake and warm enough to live. I knew that my chance would be with the
next turn of the tide, when the ice would move with it, and also the wind, up the river. So
it turned out. I was at last able to break my way through the loosened ice to Plain Point,
and then had a two-mile walk home; and I can tell you that it never seemed so like home before."

"Oh, Burt, please don't go out again when the ice is running," was his mother's comment on
the story.

"Thoreau speaks of seeing black ducks asleep on a pond whereon thin ice had formed, inclosing
them, daring the March night," said Webb. "Have you ever caught them napping in this way?"

"No," replied Mr. Marks; "though it might easily happen on a still pond. The tides and wind
usually break up the very thin ice on the river, and if there is any open water near, the ducks
will stay in it."

"Dr. Marvin, have you caught any glimpses of spring to-day that we have not?" Amy asked.

The doctor laughed--having heard of Webb's exploit in the night near the hennery--and said:
"I might mention that I have seen 'Sir Mephitis' cabbage, as I suppose I should all it, growing
vigorously. It is about the first green thing we have. Around certain springs, however, the
grass keeps green all winter, and I passed one to-day surrounded by an emerald hue that was
distinct in the distance. It has been very cold and backward thus far."

"Possess your souls in patience," said Mr. Clifford. "Springtime and harvest are sure. After
over half a century's observation I have noted that, no matter what the weather may have been,
Nature always catches up with the season about the middle or last of June."

CHAPTER XXIV

APRIL

The remainder of March passed quickly away, with more alternations of mood than there were
days; but in spite of snow, sleet, wind, and rain, the most forbidding frowns and tempestuous
tears, all knew that Nature had yielded, and more often she half-smilingly acknowledged the
truth herself.

All sights and sounds about the farmhouse betokened increasing activity. During the morning
hours the cackling in the barn and out-buildings developed into a perfect clamor, for the more
commonplace the event of a new-born egg became, the greater attention the hens inclined to
call to it. Possibly they also felt the spring-time impulse of all the feathered tribes to
use their voice to the extent of its compass. The clatter was music to Alf and Johnnie, however,
for gathering the eggs was one of their chief sources of revenue, and the hunting of nests--stolen
so cunningly and cackled over so sillily--with their accumulated treasures was like prospecting
for mines. The great basketful they brought in daily after their return from school proved
that if the egg manufactory ran noisily, it did not run in vain. Occasionally their father
gave them a peep into the dusky brooding-room. Under his thrifty management the majority of
the nests were simply loose boxes, each inscribed with a number. When a biddy wished to sit,
she was removed at night upon the nest, and the box was placed on a low shelf in the brooding-room.
If she remained quiet and contented in the new location, eggs were placed under her, a note
of the number of the box was taken, with the date, and the character of the eggs, if they represented
any special breed. By these simple precautions little was left to what Squire Bartley termed
"luck." Some of the hens had been on the nest nearly three weeks, and eagerly did the children
listen for the first faint peep that should announce the senior chick of the year.

Webb and Burt had already opened the campaign in the garden. On the black soil in the hot-bed,
which had been made in a sheltered nook, were even now lines of cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce,
tomatoes, etc. These nursling vegetables were cared for as Maggie had watched her babies. On
mild sunny days the sash was shoved down and air given. High winds and frosty nights prompted
to careful covering and tucking away. The Cliffords were not of those who believe that pork,
cabbage, and potatoes are a farmer's birthright, when by a small outlay of time and skill every
delicacy can be enjoyed, even in advance of the season. On a warm slope from which the frost
ever took its earliest departure, peas, potatoes, and other hardy products of the garden were
planted, and as the ground grew firm enough, the fertilizers of the barn-yard were carted to
the designated places, whereon, by Nature's alchemy, they would be transmuted into forms of
use and beauty.

It so happened that the 1st of April was an ideal spring day. During the morning the brow of
Storm King, still clothed with snow, was shrouded in mist, through which the light broke uncertainly
in gleams of watery sunshine. A succession of showers took place, but so slight and mild that
they were scarcely heeded by the busy workers; there was almost a profusion of half-formed
rainbows; and atmosphere and cloud so blended that it was hard to say where one began and the
other ceased. On every twig, dead weed, and spire of withered grass hung innumerable drops
that now were water and again diamonds when touched by the inconstant sun. Sweet-fern grass
abounded in the lawn, and from it exuded an indescribably delicious odor. The birds were so
ecstatic in their songs, so constant in their calls, that one might think that they, like the
children, were making the most of All-fools' Day, and playing endless pranks on each other.
The robins acted as if nothing were left to be desired. They were all this time in all stages
of relationship. Some had already paired, and were at work upon their domiciles, but more were
in the blissful and excited state of courtship, and their conversational notes, wooings, and
pleadings, as they warbled the pros and cons, were quite different from their matin and vesper
songs. Not unfrequently there were two aspirants for the same claw or bill, and the rivals
usually fought it out like their human neighbors in the olden time, the red-breasted object
of their affections standing demurely aloof on the sward, quietly watching the contest with
a sidelong look, undoubtedly conscious, however, of a little feminine exultation that she should
be sought thus fiercely by more than one. After all, the chief joy of the robin world that
day resulted from the fact that the mild, humid air lured the earth-worms from their burrowing,
and Amy laughed more than once as, from her window, she saw a little gourmand pulling at a
worm, which clung so desperately to its hole that the bird at last almost fell over backward
with its prize. Courtship, nest-building, family cares--nothing disturbs a robin's appetite,
and it was, indeed, a sorry fools'-day for myriads of angle-worms that ventured out.

Managing a country place is like sailing a ship: one's labors are, or should be, much modified
by the weather. This still day, when the leaves were heavy with moisture, afforded Webb the
chance he had desired to rake the lawn and other grass-plots about the house, and store the
material for future use. He was not one to attempt this task when the wind would half undo
his labor.

In the afternoon the showery phase passed, and the sun shone with a misty brightness. Although
so early in a backward spring, the day was full of the suggestion of wild flowers, and Amy
and the children started on their first search into Nature's calendar of the seasons. All knew
where to look for the earliest blossoms, and in the twilight the explorers returned with handfuls
of hepatica and arbutus buds, which, from experience, they knew would bloom in a vase of water.
Who has ever forgotten his childish exultation over the first wild flowers of the year! Pale,
delicate little blossoms though they be, and most of them odorless, their memory grows sweet
with our age.

Burt, who had been away to purchase a horse--he gave considerable of his time to the buying
and selling of these animals--drove up as Amy approached the house, and pleaded for a spray
of arbutus.

"But the buds are not open yet," she said.

"No matter; I should value the spray just as much, since you gathered it."

"Why, Burt," she cried, laughing, "on that principle I might as well give you a chip." But
she gave him the buds and escaped.

"Amy," Webb asked at the supper-table, "didn't you hear the peepers this afternoon while out
walking?"

"Yes; and I asked Alf what they were. He said they were peepers, and that they always made
a noise in the spring."

"Why, Alf," Webb resumed, in mock gravity, "you should have told Amy that the sounds came from
the Hylodes pickeringii."

"If that is all that you can tell me," said Amy, laughing, "I prefer Alf's explanation. I have
known people to cover up their ignorance by big words before. Indeed, I think it is a way you
scientists have."

"I must admit it; and yet that close observer, John Burroughs, gives a charming account of
these little frogs that we call 'hylas' for short. Shy as they are, and quick to disappear
when approached, he has seen them, as they climb out of the mud upon a sedge or stick in the
marshes, inflate their throats until they 'suggest a little drummer-boy with his drum hung
high.' In this bubble-like swelling at its throat the noise is made; and to me it is a welcome
note of spring, although I have heard people speak of it as one of the most lonesome and melancholy
of sounds. It is a common saying among old farmers that the peepers must be shut up three times
by frost before we can expect steady spring weather. I believe that naturalists think these
little mites of frogs leave the mud and marshes later on, and become tree-toads. Let me give
you a hint, Alf. Try to find out what you can at once about the things you see or hear: that's
the way to get an education."

"May I not take the hint also?" Amy asked.

"Please don't think me a born pedagogue," he answered, smiling; "but you have no idea how fast
we obtain knowledge of certain kinds if we follow up the object-lessons presented every day."

CHAPTER XXV

EASTER

Easter-Sunday came early in the month, and there had been great preparations for it, for with
the Cliffords it was one of the chief festivals of the year. To the children was given a week's
vacation, and they scoured the woods for all the arbutus that gave any promise of opening in
time. Clumps of bloodroot, hepaticas, dicentras, dog-tooth violets, and lilies-of-the-valley
had been taken up at the first relaxation of frost, and forced in the flower-room. Hyacinth
and tulip bulbs, kept back the earlier part of the winter, were timed to bloom artificially
at this season so sacred to flowers, and, under Mrs. Clifford's fostering care, all the exotics
of the little conservatory had been stimulated to do their best to grace the day. On Saturday
afternoon Mr. Barkdale's pulpit was embowered with plants and vines growing in pots, tubs,
and rustic boxes, and the good man beamed upon the work, gaining meanwhile an inspiration that
would put a soul into his words on the morrow.

No such brilliant morning dawned on the worship of the Saxon goddess Eostre, in cloudy, forest-clad
England in the centuries long past, as broke over the eastern mountains on that sacred day.
At half-past five the sun appeared above the shaggy summit of the Beacon, and the steel hues
of the placid Hudson were changed into sparkling silver. A white mist rested on the water between
Storm King, Break Neck, and Mount Taurus. In the distance it appeared as if snow had drifted
in and half filled the gorge of the Highlands. The orange and rose-tinted sky gradually deepened
into an intense blue, and although the land was as bare and the forests were as gaunt as in
December, a soft glamour over all proclaimed spring.

Spring was also in Amy's eyes, in the oval delicacy of her girlish face with its exquisite
flush, in her quick, deft hands and elastic step as she arranged baskets and vases of flowers.
Webb watched her with his deep eyes, and his Easter worship began early in the day. True homage
it was, because so involuntary, so unquestioning and devoid of analysis, so utterly free from
the self-conscious spirit that expects a large and definite return for adoration. His sense
of beauty, the poetic capabilities of his nature, were kindled. Like the flowers that seemed
to know their place in a harmony of color when she touched them, Amy herself was emblematic
of Easter, of its brightness and hopefulness, of the new, richer spiritual life that was coming
to him. He loved his homely work and calling as never before, because he saw how on every side
it touched and blended with the beautiful and sacred. Its highest outcome was like the blossoms
before him which had developed from a rank soil, dark roots, and prosaic woody stems. The grain
he raised fed and matured the delicate human perfection shown in every graceful and unconscious
pose of the young girl. She was Nature's priestess interpreting to him a higher, gentler world
which before he had seen but dimly--interpreting it all the more clearly because she made no
effort to reveal it. She led the way, he followed, and the earth ceased to be an aggregate
of forms and material forces. With his larger capabilities he might yet become her master,
but now, with an utter absence of vanity, he recognized how much she was doing for him, how
she was widening his horizon and uplifting his thoughts and motives, and he reverenced her
as such men ever do a woman that leads them to a higher plane of life.

No such deep thoughts and vague homage perplexed Burt as he assisted Amy with attentions that
were assiduous and almost garrulous. The brightness of the morning was in his handsome face,
and the gladness of his buoyant temperament in his heart. Amy was just to his taste--pretty,
piquant, rose-hued, and a trifle thorny too, at times, he thought. He believed that he loved
her with a boundless devotion--at least it seemed so that morning. It was delightful to be
near her, to touch her fingers occasionally as he handed her flowers, and to win smiles, arch
looks, and even words that contained a minute prick like spines on the rose stems. He felt
sure that his suit would prosper in time, and she was all the more fascinating because showing
no sentimental tendencies to respond with a promptness that in other objects of his attention
in the past had even proved embarrassing. She was a little conscious of Webb's silent observation,
and, looking up suddenly, caught an expression that deepened her color slightly.

"That for your thoughts," she said, tossing him a flower with sisterly freedom.

"Webb is pondering deeply," explained the observant Burt, "on the reflection of light as shown
not only by the color in these flowers, but also in your cheeks under his fixed stare."

There was an access of rose-hued reflection at these words, but Webb rose quietly and said:
"If you will let me keep the flower I will tell you my thoughts another time. They were quite
suitable for Easter morning. That basket is now ready, and I will take it to the church."

Burt was soon despatched with another, while she and Johnnie, who had been flitting about,
eager and interested, followed with light and delicate vases. To their surprise, Mr. Alvord
intercepted them near the church vestibule. He had never been seen at any place of worship,
and the reserve and dignity of his manner had prevented the most zealous from interfering with
his habits. From the porch of his cottage he had seen Amy and the little girl approaching with
their floral offerings. Nature's smile that morning had softened his bitter mood, and, obeying
an impulse to look nearer upon two beings that belonged to another world than his, he joined
them, and asked:

"Won't you let me see your flowers before you take them into the church?"

"Certainly," said Amy, cordially; "but there are lovelier ones on the pulpit; won't you come
in and see them?"

He shook his head.

