 I brought a very able Dublin woman to see her and this woman
had a brother, a physiologist whose reputation, though known to specialists alone, was European;
and, because of this brother, a family pride in everything scientific and modern. The Dublin
woman scarcely opened her mouth the whole evening and her name was certainly unknown to Madame
Blavatsky, yet I saw at once in that wrinkled old face bent over the cards, and the only time
I ever saw it there, a personal hostility, the dislike of one woman for another. Madame Blavatsky
seemed to bundle herself up, becoming all primeval peasant, and began complaining of her ailments,
more especially of her bad leg. But of late her master--her 'old Jew,' her 'Ahasuerus,' cured
it, or set it on the way to be cured. 'I was sitting here in my chair,' she said, 'when the
master came in and brought something with him which he put over my knee, something warm which
enclosed my knee--it was a live dog which he had cut open.' I recognised a cure used sometimes
in mediaeval medicine. She had two masters, and their portraits, ideal Indian heads, painted
by some most incompetent artist, stood upon either side of the folding doors. One night, when
talk was impersonal and general, I sat gazing through the folding doors into the dimly lighted
dining-room beyond. I noticed a curious red light shining upon a picture and got up to see
where the red light came from. It was the picture of an Indian and as I came near it slowly
vanished. When I returned to my seat, Madame Blavatsky said, 'What did you see?' 'A picture,'
I said. 'Tell it to go away.' 'It is already gone.' 'So much the better,' she said, 'I was
afraid it was medium ship but it is only clairvoyance.' 'What is the difference?' 'If it had
been medium ship, it would have stayed in spite of you. Beware of medium ship; it is a kind
of madness; I know, for I have been through it.'

I found her almost always full of gaiety that, unlike the occasional joking of those about
her, was illogical and incalculable and yet always kindly and tolerant. I had called one evening
to find her absent, but expected every moment. She had been somewhere at the seaside for her
health and arrived with a little suite of followers. She sat down at once in her big chair,
and began unfolding a brown paper parcel, while all looked on full of curiosity. It contained
a large family Bible. 'This is a present for my maid,' she said. 'What! A Bible and not even
anointed!' said some shocked voice. 'Well my children,' was the answer, 'what is the good of
giving lemons to those who want oranges?' When I first began to frequent her house, as I soon
did very constantly, I noticed a handsome clever woman of the world there, who seemed certainly
very much out of place, penitent though she thought herself. Presently there was much scandal
and gossip, for the penitent was plainly entangled with two young men, who were expected to
grow into ascetic sages. The scandal was so great that Madame Blavatsky had to call the penitent
before her and to speak after this fashion, 'We think that it is necessary to crush the animal
nature; you should live in chastity in act and thought. Initiation is granted only to those
who are entirely chaste,' and so to run on for some time. However, after some minutes in that
vehement style, the penitent standing crushed and shamed before her, she had wound up, 'I cannot
permit you more than one.' She was quite sincere, but thought that nothing mattered but what
happened in the mind, and that if we could not master the mind, our actions were of little
importance. One young man filled her with exasperation; for she thought that his settled gloom
came from his chastity. I had known him in Dublin, where he had been accustomed to interrupt
long periods of asceticism, in which he would eat vegetables and drink water, with brief outbreaks
of what he considered the devil. After an outbreak he would for a few hours dazzle the imagination
of the members of the local theosophical society with poetical rhapsodies about harlots and
street lamps, and then sink into weeks of melancholy. A fellow theosophist once found him hanging
from the window pole, but cut him down in the nick of time. I said to the man who cut him down,
'What did you say to one another?' He said, 'We spent the night telling comic stories and laughing
a great deal.' This man, torn between sensuality and visionary ambition, was now the most devout
of all, and told me that in the middle of the night he could often hear the ringing of the
little 'astral bell' whereby Madame Blavatsky's master called her attention, and that, although
it was a low silvery sound it made the whole house shake. Another night I found him waiting
in the hall to show in those who had the right of entrance on some night when the discussion
was private, and as I passed he whispered into my ear, 'Madame Blavatsky is perhaps not a real
woman at all. They say that her dead body was found many years ago upon some Russian battlefield.'
She had two dominant moods, both of extreme activity, but one calm and philosophic, and this
was the mood always on that night in the week, when she answered questions upon her system;
and as I look back after thirty years I often ask myself 'Was her speech automatic? Was she
for one night, in every week, a trance medium, or in some similar state?' In the other mood
she was full of phantasy and inconsequent raillery. 'That is the Greek church, a triangle like
all true religion,' I recall her saying, as she chalked out a triangle on the green baize,
and then, as she made it disappear in meaningless scribbles 'it spread out and became a bramble-bush
like the Church of Rome.' Then rubbing it all out except one straight line, 'Now they have
lopped off the branches and turned it into a broomstick arid that is Protestantism.' And so
it was, night after night, always varied and unforseen. I have observed a like sudden extreme
change in others, half whose thought was supernatural, and Laurence Oliphant records some where
or other like observations. I can remember only once finding her in a mood of reverie; something
had happened to damp her spirits, some attack upon her movement, or upon herself. She spoke
of Balzac, whom she had seen but once, of Alfred de Musset, whom she had known well enough
to dislike for his morbidity, and of George Sand whom she had known so well that they had dabbled
in magic together of which 'neither knew anything at all' in those days; and she ran on, as
if there was nobody there to overhear her, 'I used to wonder at and pity the people who sell
their souls to the devil, but now I only pity them. They do it to have somebody on their sides,'
and added to that, after some words I have forgotten, 'I write, write, write as the Wandering
Jew walks, walks, walks.' Besides the devotees, who came to listen and to turn every doctrine
into a new sanction for the puritanical convictions of their Victorian childhood, cranks came
from half Europe and from all America, and they came that they might talk. One American said
to me, 'She has become the most famous woman in the world by sitting in a big chair and permitting
us to talk.' They talked and she played patience, and totted up her score on the green baize,
and generally seemed to listen, but sometimes she would listen no more. There was a woman who
talked perpetually of 'the divine spark' within her, until Madame Blavatsky stopped her with--'Yes,
my dear, you have a divine spark within you, and if you are not very careful you will hear
it snore.' A certain Salvation Army captain probably pleased her, for, if vociferous and loud
of voice, he had much animation. He had known hardship and spoke of his visions while starving
in the streets and he was still perhaps a little light in the head. I wondered what he could
preach to ignorant men, his head ablaze with wild mysticism, till I met a man who had heard
him talking near Covent Garden to some crowd in the street. 'My friends,' he was saying, 'you
have the kingdom of heaven within you and it would take a pretty big pill to get that out.'

XVII

Meanwhile I had not got any nearer to proving that 'Ahasuerus dwells in a sea-cavern 'mid the
Demonesi,' but one conclusion I certainly did come to, which I find written out in an old diary
and dated 1887. Madame Blavatsky's 'masters' were 'trance' personalities, but by 'trance personalities'
I meant something almost as exciting as 'Ahasuerus' himself. Years before I had found, on a
table in the Royal Irish Academy, a pamphlet on Japanese art, and read there of an animal painter
so remarkable that horses he had painted upon a temple wall had stepped down after and trampled
the neighbouring fields of rice. Somebody had come to the temple in the early morning, been
startled by a shower of water drops, looked up and seen a painted horse, still wet from the
dew-covered fields, but now 'trembling into stillness.' I thought that her masters were imaginary
forms created by suggestion, but whether that suggestion came from Madame Blavatsky's own mind
or from some mind, perhaps at a great distance, I did not know; and I believed that these forms
could pass from Madame Blavatsky's mind to the minds of others, and even acquire external reality,
and that it was even possible that they talked and wrote. They were born in the imagination,
where Blake had declared that all men live after death, and where 'every man is king or priest
in his own house.' Certainly the house at Holland Park was a romantic place, where one heard
of constant apparitions and exchanged speculations like those of the middle ages, and I did
not separate myself from it by my own will. The Secretary, an intelligent and friendly man,
asked me to come and see him, and when I did, complained that I was causing discussion and
disturbance, a certain fanatical hungry face had been noticed red and tearful, & it was quite
plain that I was not in full agreement with their method or their philosophy. 'I know,' he
said, 'that all these people become dogmatic and fanatical because they believe what they can
never prove; that their withdrawal from family life is to them a great misfortune; but what
are we to do? We have been told that all spiritual influx into the society will come to an
end in 1897 for exactly one hundred years. Before that date our fundamental ideas must be spread
through the world.' I knew the doctrine and it had made me wonder why that old woman, or rather
'the trance personalities' who directed her and were her genius, insisted upon it, for influx
of some kind there must always be. Did they dread heresy after the death of Madame Blavatsky,
or had they no purpose but the greatest possible immediate effort?

XVIII

At the British Museum reading-room I often saw a man of thirty-six or thirty-seven, in a brown
velveteen coat, with a gaunt resolute face, and an athletic body, who seemed before I heard
his name, or knew the nature of his studies, a figure of romance. Presently I was introduced,
where or by what man or woman I do not remember. He was Macgregor Mathers, the author of the
'Kabbalas Unveiled,' & his studies were two only--magic and the theory of war, for he believed
himself a born commander and all but equal in wisdom and in power to that old Jew. He had copied
many manuscripts on magic ceremonial and doctrine in the British Museum, and was to copy many
more in continental libraries, and it was through him mainly that I began certain studies and
experiences that were to convince me that images well up before the mind's eye from a deeper
source than conscious or subconscious memory. I believe that his mind in those early days did
not belie his face and body, though in later years it became unhinged, for he kept a proud
head amid great poverty. One that boxed with him nightly has told me that for many weeks he
could knock him down, though Macgregor was the stronger man, and only knew long after that
during those weeks Macgregor starved. With him I met an old white-haired Oxfordshire clergyman,
the most panic-stricken person I have ever known, though Macgregor's introduction had been
'He unites us to the great adepts of antiquity.' This old man took me aside that he might say--'I
hope you never invoke spirits--that is a very dangerous thing to do. I am told that even the
planetary spirits turn upon us in the end.' I said, 'Have you ever seen an apparition?' 'O
yes, once,' he said. 'I have my alchemical laboratory in a cellar under my house where the
Bishop cannot see it. One day I was walking up & down there when I heard another footstep walking
up and down beside me. I turned and saw a girl I had been in love with when I was a young man,
but she died long ago. She wanted me to kiss her. Oh no, I would not do that.' 'Why not?' I
said. 'Oh, she might have got power over me.' 'Has your alchemical research had any success?'
I said. 'Yes, I once made the elixir of life. A French alchemist said it had the right smell
and the right colour,' (The alchemist may have been Elephas Levi, who visited England in the
sixties, & would have said anything) 'but the first effect of the elixir is that your nails
fall out and your hair falls off. I was afraid that I might have made a mistake and that nothing
else might happen, so I put it away on a shelf. I meant to drink it when I was an old man,
but when I got it down the other day it had all dried up.'

XIX

I generalized a great deal and was ashamed of it. I thought that it was my business in life
to bean artist and a poet, and that there could be no business comparable to that. I refused
to read books, and even to meet people who excited me to generalization, but all to no purpose.
I said my prayers much as in childhood, though without the old regularity of hour and place,
and I began to pray that my imagination might somehow be rescued from abstraction, and become
as pre-occupied with life as had been the imagination of Chaucer. For ten or twelve years more
I suffered continual remorse, and only became content when my abstractions had composed themselves
into picture and dramatization. My very remorse helped to spoil my early poetry, giving it
an element of sentimentality through my refusal to permit it any share of an intellect which
I considered impure. Even in practical life I only very gradually began to use generalizations,
that have since become the foundation of all I have done, or shall do, in Ireland. For all
I know, all men may have been as timid; for I am persuaded that our intellects at twenty contain
all the truths we shall ever find, but as yet we do not know truths that belong to us from
opinions caught up in casual irritation or momentary phantasy. As life goes on we discover
that certain thoughts sustain us in defeat, or give us victory, whether over ourselves or others,
& it is these thoughts, tested by passion, that we call convictions. Among subjective men (in
all those, that is, who must spin a web out of their own bowels) the victory is an intellectual
daily recreation of all that exterior fate snatches away, and so that fate's antithesis; while
what I have called 'The mask' is an emotional antithesis to all that comes out of their internal
nature. We begin to live when we have conceived life as a tragedy.

XX

