I sat ruminating, when I had a little come to myself, upon the terms of this wicked letter;
and had no inclination to look into my own. The bad names, fool's play-thing, artful creature,
painted bauble, gewgaw, speaking picture, are hard words for your poor Pamela! and I began
to think whether I was not indeed a very naughty body, and had not done vile things: But when
I thought of his having discovered poor John, and of Sir Simon's base officiousness, in telling
him of Mr. Williams, with what he had resolved against him in revenge for his goodness to me,
I was quite dispirited; and yet still more about that fearful Colbrand, and what he could see
done to me: for then I was ready to gasp for breath, and my heart quite failed me. Then how
dreadful are the words, that he will decide my fate in three weeks! Gracious Heaven, said I,
strike me dead, before that time, with a thunderbolt, or provide some way for my escaping these
threatened mischiefs! God forgive me, if I sinned!

At last, I took up the letter directed for Mrs. Jewkes, but designed for me; and I find that
little better than the other. These are the hard terms it contains:

'Well have you done, perverse, forward, artful, yet foolish Pamela, to convince me, before
it was too late, how ill I had done to place my affections on so unworthy an object: I had
vowed honour and love to your unworthiness, believing you a mirror of bashful modesty and unspotted
innocence; and that no perfidious designs lurked in so fair a bosom. But now I have found you
out, you specious hypocrite! and I see, that though you could not repose the least confidence
in one you had known for years, and who, under my good mother's misplaced favour for you, had
grown up in a manner with you; when my passion, in spite of my pride, and the difference of
our condition, made me stoop to a meanness that now I despise myself for; yet you could enter
into an intrigue with a man you never knew till within these few days past, and resolve to
run away with a stranger, whom your fair face, and insinuating arts, had bewitched to break
through all the ties of honour and gratitude to me, even at a time when the happiness of his
future life depended upon my favour.

'Henceforth, for Pamela's sake, whenever I see a lovely face, will I mistrust a deceitful heart;
and whenever I hear of the greatest pretences to innocence, will I suspect some deep-laid mischief.
You were determined to place no confidence in me, though I have solemnly, over and over, engaged
my honour to you. What, though I had alarmed your fears in sending you one way, when you hoped
to go another; yet, had I not, to convince you of my resolution to do justly by you, (although
with great reluctance, such then was my love for you,) engaged not to come near you without
your own consent? Was not this a voluntary demonstration of the generosity of my intention
to you? Yet how have you requited me? The very first fellow that your charming face, and insinuating
address, could influence, you have practised upon, corrupted too, I may say, (and even ruined,
as the ungrateful wretch shall find,) and thrown your forward self upon him. As, therefore,
you would place no confidence in me, my honour owes you nothing; and, in a little time, you
shall find how much you have erred, in treating, as you have done, a man who was once

                                     'Your affectionate and kind friend.'

'Mrs. Jewkes has directions concerning you: and if your lot is now harder than you might wish,
you will bear it the easier, because your own rash folly has brought it upon you.'

Alas! for me, what a fate is mine, to be thus thought artful, and forward, and ungrateful;
when all I intended was to preserve my innocence; and when all the poor little shifts, which
his superior wicked wit and cunning have rendered ineffectual, were forced upon me in my own
necessary defence!

When Mrs. Jewkes came up to me again, she found me bathed in tears. She seemed, as I thought,
to be moved to some compassion; and finding myself now entirely in her power, and that it is
not for me to provoke her, I said, It is now, I see, in vain for me to contend against my evil
destiny, and the superior arts of my barbarous master. I will resign myself to the Divine will,
and prepare to expect the worst. But you see how this poor Mr. Williams is drawn in and undone:
I am sorry I am made the cause of his ruin. Poor, poor man!--to be thus involved, and for my
sake too!--But if you'll believe me, said I, I gave no encouragement to what he proposed, as
to marriage; nor would he have proposed it, I believe, but as the only honourable way he thought
was left to save me: And his principal motive to it at all, was virtue and compassion to one
in distress. What other view could he have? You know I am poor and friendless. All I beg of
you is, to let the poor gentleman have notice of my master's resentment; and let him fly the
country, and not be thrown into gaol. This will answer my master's end as well; for it will
as effectually hinder him from assisting me, as if he was in a prison.

Ask me, said she, to do any thing that is in my power, consistent with my duty and trust, and
I will do it: for I am sorry for you both. But, to be sure, I shall keep no correspondence
with him, nor let you. I offered to talk of a duty superior to that she mentioned, which would
oblige her to help distressed innocence, and not permit her to go the lengths enjoined by lawless
tyranny; but she plainly bid me be silent on that head: for it was in vain to attempt to persuade
her to betray her trust:--All I have to advise you, said she, is to be easy; lay aside all
your contrivances and arts to get away, and make me your friend, by giving me no reason to
suspect you; for I glory in my fidelity to my master: And you have both practised some strange
sly arts, to make such a progress as he has owned there was between you, so seldom as I thought
you saw one another; and I must be more circumspect than I have been.

This doubled my concern; for I now apprehended I should be much closer watched than before.

Well, said I, since I have, by this strange accident, discovered my hard destiny; let me read
over again that fearful letter of yours, that I may get it by heart, and with it feed my distress,
and make calamity familiar to me. Then, said she, let me read yours again. I gave her mine,
and she lent me hers: and so I took a copy of it, with her leave; because, as I said I would,
by it, prepare myself for the worst. And when I had done, I pinned it on the head of the couch:
This, said I, is the use I shall make of this wretched copy of your letter; and here you shall
always find it wet with my tears.

She said she would go down to order supper; and insisted upon my company to it. I would have
excused myself; but she began to put on a commanding air, that I durst not oppose. And when
I went down, she took me by the hand, and presented me to the most hideous monster I ever saw
in my life. Here, Monsieur Colbrand, said she, here is your pretty ward and mine; let us try
to make her time with us easy. He bowed, and put on his foreign grimaces, and seemed to bless
himself; and, in broken English, told me, I was happy in de affections of de finest gentleman
in de varld!--I was quite frightened, and ready to drop down; and I will describe him to you,
my dear father and mother, if now you will ever see this: and you shall judge if I had not
reason, especially not knowing he was to be there, and being apprised, as I was, of his hated
employment, to watch me closer.

