Whenever he did anything especially nice, Brother Stephen would seem almost as much pleased
as if Gabriel were his own boy; and hugging him affectionately, he would exclaim:

"Ah, little one, thou hast indeed the artist soul! And, please God, I will train thy hand so
that when thou art a man it shall never know the hard toil of the peasant. Thy pen and brush
shall earn a livelihood for thee!" And then he would take more pains than ever to teach Gabriel
all the best knowledge of his art.

Nor did Brother Stephen content himself with teaching the boy only to paint; but in his love
for him, he desired to do still more. He had no wealth some day to bestow upon him, but he
had something that was a very great deal better; for Brother Stephen, like many of the monks
of the time, had a good education; and this he determined to share with Gabriel.

He arranged to have him stay at the Abbey for his supper as often as he could be spared from
home; and hour after hour of the long summer evenings he spent teaching the lad to read and
write, which was really quite a distinction; for it was an accomplishment that none of the
peasants, and very few of the lords and ladies of that time possessed. Gabriel was quick and
eager to learn, and Brother Stephen gradually added other things to his list of studies, and
both of them took the greatest pleasure in the hours thus passed together.

Sometimes they would go out into the garden, and, sitting on one of the quaint stone benches,
Brother Stephen would point out to Gabriel the different stars, or tell him about the fragrant
growing plants around them; or, perhaps, repeat to him some dreamy legend of old, old Normandy.

And then, by and by, Gabriel would go home through the perfumed dark, feeling vaguely happy;
for all the while, through those pleasant evenings with Brother Stephen, his mind and heart
were opening brightly as the yellow primroses, that blossomed by moonlight over all the Abbey
meadows.

CHAPTER V.

THE COUNT'S TAX

AND in this happy manner the spring and summer wore away and the autumn came. Brother Stephen
felt very cheerful, for the beautiful book grew more beautiful week by week; and he was very
proud and happy, because he knew it was the loveliest thing he had ever made.

Indeed, he himself was so cheerful, that as the autumn days, one after another, melted away,
it was some little time before he noticed that Gabriel was losing his merriness, and that he
had begun to look sad and distressed. And finally, one morning, he came looking so very unhappy,
that Brother Stephen asked, with much concern:

"Why, lad, whither have all thy gay spirits taken flight? Art thou ill?"

"Nay, sir," answered Gabriel, sadly; "but oh, Brother Stephen, we are in so much trouble at home!"

At this the monk at once began to question him, and learned that Gabriel's family were indeed
in great misfortune.

And this is how it came about: in those days the peasant folk had a very hard time indeed.
All of the land through the country was owned by the great nobles; and the poor peasants, who
lived on the little farms into which the land was divided, had few rights. They could not even
move to another place if they so wished, but were obliged to spend all their lives under the
control of whatever nobleman happened to own the estate on which they were born.

They lived in little thatched cottages, and cultivated their bits of land; and as rent for
this, each peasant was obliged to help support the great lord who owned everything, and who
always lived in a strong castle, with armed men under his command.

The peasants had to raise wheat and vegetables and sheep and cows, so that the people of the
castles might eat nice, white bread, and nut cookies and roast meat; though the poor peasants
themselves had to be content, day after day, with little more than hard, black bread, and perhaps
a single bowl of cabbage or potato soup, from which the whole family would dip with their wooden
spoons.

Then, too, the peasants oftentimes had to pay taxes when their noble lord wished to raise money,
and even to follow him to war if he so commanded, though this did not often happen.

And now we come to the reason for Gabriel's troubles. It seems that the Count Pierre de Bouchage,
to whose estate Gabriel's family belonged, had got into a quarrel with a certain baron who
lived near the town of Evreux, and Count Pierre was determined to take his followers and attack
the baron's castle; for these private wars were very common in those days.

But Count Pierre needed money to carry on his little war, and so had laid a very heavy tax
on the peasants of his estate; and Gabriel's father had been unable to raise the sum of money
demanded. For besides Gabriel, there were several little brothers and sisters in the family,
Jean and Margot and little Guillaume, who must be clothed and fed; and though the father was
honest and hard-working, yet the land of their little farm was poor, and it was all the family
could do to find themselves enough on which to live.

When peasant Viaud had begged Count Pierre to release him from the tax, the count, who was
hard and unsympathetic, had become angry, and given orders that the greater part of their little
farm should be taken from them, and he had seized also their little flock of sheep. This was
a grievous loss, for out of the wool that grew on the sheeps' backs, Gabriel's mother every
winter made the warm, homespun clothes for all the family.

Indeed, Count Pierre had no real right to do all this; but in those times, when a noble lord
chose to be cruel and unjust, the poor peasants had no way to help matters.

And this was not all of Gabriel's woes; for only a few days after he had told these things
to Brother Stephen, when he went home at night, he found his mother crying bitterly, and learned
that Count Pierre, who was having some trouble in raising his money, and so had become more
merciless than ever, had that day imprisoned his father at the castle, and refused to release
him unless some of the tax were paid.

This was the hardest blow of all; and though the other children were too young to understand
all that had befallen them, poor Gabriel and his mother were so distressed that neither slept
that night; and the next morning when the little boy arose, tired out instead of rested by
the long night, he had scarcely the heart to go away to the Abbey, and leave things so miserable
at home. But his mother thought it best for him to keep on with his work with Brother Stephen,
because of the little sum he earned; and then, too, he felt that he must do his part to help
until King Louis's book was finished. After that, he did not know what he could do! He did
not know how he could best try to take his father's place and help the family; for, after all,
he knew he was only a little boy, and so things seemed very hopeless!

Indeed the grief and poverty that had come upon them at home made Gabriel so sad that Brother
Stephen was quite heart-broken, too, for he deeply loved the lad. As he worked, he kept trying
all the while to think of some way to help them; but as the monk had passed all his life within
the walls of the Abbey, he knew but little of the ways of the outside world; and he had no
money of his own, or he would gladly have paid the tax himself.

CHAPTER VI.

GABRIEL'S PRAYER

MEANTIME, though they worked quietly, they were both very industrious; and at last one day,
late in October, when the first snow was beginning to fall, Brother Stephen finished the last
page of the beautiful book. He gave a sigh as he laid down his paintbrush; not because he was
tired, but because in his heart he was really sorry to finish his work, for he knew that then
it would soon be taken away, and he hated to part with it.

As he and Gabriel laid all the pages together in the order in which they were to go, brother
Stephen's heart swelled with pride, and Gabriel thought he had never seen anything half so lovely!

The text was written in beautiful letters of the lustrous black ink which Gabriel had made;
and at the beginnings of new chapters, wonderful initial letters glittered in gold and colours
till they looked like little mosaics of precious stones.

Here and there through the text were scattered exquisite miniature pictures of saints and angels;
while as for the borders that enclosed every page, they wreathed around the written words such
lovely garlands of painted blossoms, that to Gabriel the whole book seemed a marvellous bouquet
of all the sweet flowers he had daily gathered from the Norman fields, and that Brother Stephen,
by the magic of his art, had made immortal.

Indeed the little boy fairly blinked as he looked at the sparkling beauty of those pages where
the blossoms were to live on, through the centuries, bright and beautiful and unharmed by wind
or rain or the driving snow, that even then was covering up all the bare frost-smitten meadows
without.

And so Gabriel turned over page after page shining with gold and purple and rose-colour, till
he came to the very last of the text; and then he saw that there was yet one page more, and
on turning over this he read these words:

"I, Brother Stephen, of the Abbey of St. Martin-de-Bouchage, made this book; and for every
initial letter and picture and border of flowers that I have herein wrought, I pray the Lord
God to have compassion upon some one of my grievous sins!"

This was written in beautifully, and all around it was painted a graceful border like braided
ribbons of blue.

Now in Brother Stephen's time, when any one finished an especially beautiful illumination of
any part of the Bible, it was quite customary for the artist to add, at the end, a little prayer.
Indeed, no one can make a really beautiful thing without loving the work; and those old-time
artist-monks took such delight in the flowery pages they painted, that they felt sure the dear
Lord himself could not help but be pleased to have his words made so beautiful, and that he
would so grant the little prayer at the end of the book, because of the loving labour that
had gone before.

As Gabriel again read over Brother Stephen's last page, it set him to thinking; and a little
later, as he walked home in the frosty dusk, he thought of it again.

It was true, he said to himself, that all the beautiful written and painted work on King Louis's
book had been done by Brother Stephen's hands,--and yet,--and yet,--had not he, too, helped?
Had he not gathered the thorny hawthorn, and pricked his fingers, and spent days and days making
the ink? Had he not, week after week, ground the colours and the gold till his arms ached,
and his hands were blistered? Had he not made the glue, and prepared the parchment, and ruled
the lines (and one had to be so careful not to blot them!), and brought all the flowers for
the borders?

Surely, he thought, though he had not painted any of its lovely pages, yet he had done his
little part to help make the book, and so, perhaps--perhaps--might not the Lord God feel kindly
toward him, too, and be willing to grant a little prayer to him also?

Now of course Gabriel could have prayed any time and anywhere, and simply asked for what he
wanted. But he had a strong feeling that God would be much more apt to notice it, if the prayer
were beautifully written out, like Brother Stephen's, and placed in the book itself, on the
making of which he had worked so long and so hard.

Gabriel was very pleased with his idea, and by the time he reached home, he had planned out
just what he wanted to say. He ate his supper of hard black bread very happily, and when, soon
after, he crept into bed and pulled up his cover of ragged sheepskin, he went to sleep with
his head so full of the work of the past few months, that he dreamed that the whole world was
full of painted books and angels with rose-coloured wings; that all the meadows of Normandy
were covered with gold, and the flowers fastened on with white of egg and eel-skins; and then,
just as he was getting out his ruler to rule lines over the blue sky, he rubbed his eyes and
woke up; and, finding it was morning, he jumped out of bed, and hastened to make himself ready
for his day's work.

When he reached the Abbey, Brother Stephen was busy binding together the finished leaves of
the book; for the monks had to do not only the painting, but also the putting together of their
books themselves.

After Gabriel had waited on Brother Stephen for awhile, the latter told him he could have some
time to himself, and so he hurried to get out the little jars of scarlet and blue and black
ink, and the bits of parchment that Brother Stephen had given him. He looked over the parchment
carefully, and at last found one piece from which he could cut a page that was almost as large
as the pages of the book. It was an old piece, and had some writing on one side, but he knew
how to scrape it off clean; and then taking some of the scarlet ink, he ruled some lines in
the centre of the page, and between these, in the nicest black letters he knew how to make,
he wrote his little prayer. And this is the way it read:

"I, Gabriel Viaud, am Brother Stephen's colour-grinder; and I have made the ink for this book,
and the glue, and caught the eels, and ground the gold and colours, and ruled the lines and
gathered the flowers for the borders, and so I pray the Lord God will be kind and let my father
out of prison in Count Pierre's castle, and tell Count Pierre to give us back our meadow and
sheep, for we cannot pay the tax, and mother says we will starve."

Now in the little prayers that the monks added at the end of a book, it was the custom to ask
only that their sins might be forgiven. But Gabriel, though he knew he had plenty of sins,--for
so the parish priest of St. Martin's village told all the peasant folk every Sunday,--yet somehow
could not feel nearly so anxious to have them forgiven, as he was to have his father freed
from prison in the castle, and their little farm and flock restored to them; and so he had
decided to word his prayer the way he did.

It took him some time to write it out, for he took great pains to shape every letter as perfectly
as possible. Nor did he forget that Brother Stephen had taught him always to make the word
God more beautiful than the others; so he wrote that in scarlet ink, and edged it with scallops
and loops and little dots of blue; and then all around the whole prayer he made graceful flourishes
of the coloured inks. He very much wished for a bit of gold with which to enrich his work,
but gold was too precious for little boys to practise with, and so Brother Stephen had not
given him any for his own. Nevertheless, when the page was finished, the artistic effect was
very pleasing, and it really was a remarkably clever piece of work for a little boy to have made.

He did not tell Brother Stephen what he was doing, for he was afraid that perhaps he might
not quite approve of his plan. Not that Gabriel wished for a moment to do anything that Brother
Stephen would not like him to do, but only that he thought their affairs at home so desperate
that he could not afford to risk losing this means of help;--and then, too, he felt that the
prayer was his own little secret, and he did not want to tell any one about it anyway.

And so he was greatly relieved that Brother Stephen, who was very much absorbed in his own
work, did not ask him any questions. The monk was always very kind about helping him in every
way possible, but never insisted on Gabriel's showing him everything, wisely thinking that
many times it was best to let the boy work out his own ideas. So Gabriel said nothing about
his page, but put it carefully away, until he could find some opportunity to place it in the
book itself.

Meantime Brother Stephen worked industriously, and in a few days more he had quite finished
the book. He had strongly bound all his painted pages together, and put on a cover of violet
velvet, which the nuns of a near-by convent had exquisitely embroidered in pearls and gold.
And, last of all, the cover was fastened with clasps of wrought gold, set with amethysts. Altogether
it was a royal gift, and one worthy of any queen. Even the Abbot, cold and stately though he
usually was, exclaimed with pleasure when he saw it, and warmly praised Brother Stephen upon
the loveliness of his work.

CHAPTER VII.

THE BOOK GOES TO LADY ANNE

AND it was well that the beautiful book was finished, for the very next afternoon a nobleman,
with several attendants, arrived at the Abbey to see if the work were done. The nobleman was
Count Henri of Lisieux, who had been sent by King Louis to bear to Lady Anne a precious casket
of jewels as part of his bridal gifts to her; and the count had also received orders from the
king to go to St. Martin's Abbey on his way, and if the book of hours were finished, to take
it along to the Lady Anne.

Count Henri was greatly pleased when they showed the work to him, and he said that he knew
both King Louis and his bride could not help but be delighted with it. And then, after it had
been duly looked at and admired, the book was wrapped up in a piece of soft, rich silk and
laid on a shelf in the chapter-house to wait until the next morning, when Count Henri would
take it away. For he had come far, and the Abbot had invited him to stay overnight in the Abbey
before going on with his journey.

While all this was taking place, and the book was being examined, Gabriel had been quietly
at work in one corner of the chapter-house, grinding some gold; and when he heard that Count
Henri was going away the next morning, he knew that if he expected to put his own little page
in the book, he must do so some time before he went home that evening; and he did not quite
see how he could manage it.

Late in the afternoon, however, a little before dusk, all the others left the chapter-house,
Brother Stephen to go to his own cell, while the Abbot took Count Henri out to show him over
the Abbey. And just as soon as they were gone, Gabriel hastily put down the stone mortar in
which he was grinding the gold, and, going over to the work-table, opened the drawer in which
he kept his own things, and took out the page on which he had written his little prayer.

He then went to the shelf and took down the book. He felt guilty as he unfolded the silk wrappings,
and his hands trembled as he loosened the golden clasps, and hurriedly slipped in his piece
of parchment. He put it in at the very back of the book, after Brother Stephen's last page.
Then carefully refastening the clasps, and again folding it up in its silken cover, he replaced
the book on the shelf.

Poor Gabriel did not know whether he had done very wrong or not in taking this liberty with
the painted book. He only knew that he could not bear to have it go away without his little
prayer between its covers; and he thought that now God would surely notice it, as he had written
it as nicely as he knew how, and had placed it next to Brother Stephen's.

By this time it was growing dark, and so Gabriel left the Abbey and took his way home. When
he reached their forlorn little cottage, he found only a scanty supper awaiting him, and very
early he went to bed; for they had but little fire and were too poor to afford even a single
candle to burn through the long winter evening.

As Gabriel lay shivering in his cold little bed, he wondered how long it would be before God
would grant his prayer for help. And then he wondered if God would be displeased because he
had dared to put it in the beautiful book without asking permission from Brother Stephen or
the Abbot. And the more he thought of the possibility of this, and of all their other troubles,
the more miserable he felt, till at last he sobbed himself to sleep.

The poor little boy did not know that after he himself had been sleeping for several hours,
Brother Stephen, who had not slept, came out of his cell in the Abbey, and, carrying in his
hand a small lamp, passed softly down the corridor and into the chapter-house. For Brother
Stephen, like many another true artist who has worked long and lovingly upon some exquisite
thing, found it very hard to part with that which he had made. He did not expect ever again
to see the beautiful book after it left the Abbey, and so he felt that he must take a farewell
look at it all by himself.

As he entered the chapter-house, he set the lamp on the table; and then taking down the book
and placing it also on the table, he unwrapped and unclasped it, and seating himself in front
of it, looked long and earnestly at each page as he slowly turned them over, one by one.

When at last he came to the end, and found a loose leaf, he picked it up in dismay, wondering
if his binding could have been so badly done that one of the pages had already become unfastened.
But his look of dismay changed to bewilderment as he examined the page more closely, and saw
Gabriel's little prayer. He read this over twice, very slowly; and then, still holding the
page in his hand, he sat for a long time with his head bowed; and once or twice something that
looked very like a tear fell on the stone floor at his feet.

After awhile the lamp began to burn low; and Brother Stephen rising, gave a tender look to
the loose page he had been holding, and then carefully put it back in the book, taking pains
to place it, as nearly as he could, exactly as Gabriel had done. Then, with a sigh, he shut
the velvet covers, once more fastened the golden clasps, and, replacing the silken wrappings,
laid the book on the shelf, and went back to his cell.

The next morning Count Henri and his escort made ready for their journey to Bretagne. Count
Henri himself placed the precious book in the same velvet bag which held the casket of jewels
for the Lady Anne, and this bag he hung over his saddle-bow directly in front of him, so that
he could keep close watch and see that no harm befell King Louis's gifts.

And then he and his soldiers mounted their horses, and, taking a courteous leave of the Abbot
and the brotherhood of St. Martin's, they trotted off along the frosty road.

CHAPTER VIII.

LADY ANNE WRITES TO THE KING

AFTER several days' journey they entered Bretagne, and before long drew near to the city of
Nantes and the castle of Lady Anne. This castle was very large, and had many towers and gables
and little turrets with sharp-pointed, conical roofs. There was a high wall and a moat all
around it, and as Count Henri approached, he displayed a little banner given him by King Louis,
and made of blue silk embroidered with three golden lilies.

At the sight of this, the keepers of the drawbridge (who in those days always had to be very
watchful not to admit enemies to their lord's castle) instantly lowered the bridge, and Count
Henri and his guard rode over and were respectfully received within the gate.

They dismounted in the courtyard, and then, after resting awhile in one of the rooms of the
castle, Count Henri was escorted into the great hall of state, where Lady Anne was ready to
receive him.

