ROBBERY UNDER ARMS

A Story of Life and Adventure in the Bush and in the Goldfields of Australia

By Thomas Alexander Browne, AKA Rolf Boldrewood

An Australian writer. 1826-1915. I trust it will do no discredit to the rising reputation of
Australian romance. But though presented in the guise of fiction, this chronicle of the Marston
family must not be set down by the reader as wholly fanciful or exaggerated. Much of the narrative
is literally true, as can be verified by official records. A lifelong residence in Australia
may be accepted as a guarantee for fidelity as to local colour and descriptive detail. I take
this opportunity of acknowledging the prompt and liberal recognition of the tale by the proprietors
of the 'Sydney Mail', but for which it might never have seen the light.

ROLF BOLDREWOOD.

117 Collins Street West,

Melbourne, 12th December 1888.

ROBBERY UNDER ARMS

Chapter 1

My name's Dick Marston, Sydney-side native. I'm twenty-nine years old, six feet in my stocking
soles, and thirteen stone weight. Pretty strong and active with it, so they say. I don't want
to blow--not here, any road--but it takes a good man to put me on my back, or stand up to me
with the gloves, or the naked mauleys. I can ride anything--anything that ever was lapped in
horsehide--swim like a musk-duck, and track like a Myall blackfellow. Most things that a man
can do I'm up to, and that's all about it. 

Fernanda, chopped suddenly by vivid curiosity, a curiosity that made her insane agitated and
anxious without knowing why, he leaned over to Maria Josefa, and thrusting the mouth by his
ear, asked in an agitated voice:

- But who is your father?

The maid turned to her and planted a glance which shone through with
the surprise the same indulgence compassionate.

- But do you really
do not know ...

She made negative.

And at the same time he was overcome with terrible emotion. A cold air flow through his inner
self suddenly. He was pale, yet Josefa Maria's lips, as if they expect health or death. It
warned While his confusion, and said after looking at her intently for a moment:

- No I tell you ... Why? ... Perhaps it is all a calumny.

Fernanda recovered instantly.

- Okay - said with a gesture of disdain .-- Cálleselo.

After all, did for me What do I care all that?

The gesture struck the maid, who hastened to say with a keen smile

-
Well, just because you care is so afraid to tell you.

- I do not
understand ...

Maria Josefa leaned forward and said

- Because they
say that the child's father is Luis.

As soon as he felt the stab, Fernanda was unmoved and asked casually:

-
What Luis?

- Earl, girl.

- Why do I have to import to me that Luis
is the father?

Maria Josefa was a little puzzled.

- How was your boyfriend ...

- But as it is not! - Replied, shrugging his shoulders contemptuously.

And he began to talk to Garnet, who was the other side. That indifference was pure comedy that
his pride could represent. An inexplicable and pervasive sadness fell upon his soul invaded and
completely, without leaving the strength to think or to do anything. If Garnet is not I was an
animal, would have understood immediately that the smile with which
he welcomed their barbarism and atrocities was a real face without
expression, and monosyllables and answers incoherent let slip from
her lips clearly denouncing it that was not listening him, but Paco
Gomez, Manuel Antonio and the others were chatting about the foundling.

With

what ardent interest collected all the words that were exchanged between those slanderers! And as we
were putting it clear the event and details were piling up, mingling mocking phrases and reticence
of comic effect, squeezing his heart, little is pressed little, as if they all were pressing
in their hands, one after another, to make damage. But his face remained impassive. Not the slightest
contraction accused the pain the bite.

The gathering broke up at noon, as usual. Fernanda felt great comfort in breathing cold, damp
air of the night. Was craving to be alone with his thoughts and be fully aware of what had just
learned.

It had rained a lot. The streets, paved with thick stone, sparkled in the light of lamps. When
leaving the house took some down the street, others, including Fernanda upward toward the square.
Few steps were taken when they heard the loud trotting horses at
that moment that bent the corner and down towards them.

- There is
the Baron and his servant - said Manuel Antonio.

It was time, indeed, that the eccentric baron Oscos went for his usual walk through the streets
of Lancia. The unpaved his famous prancing horse, raising such a crash, even if the horse of his
servant, much more patient, it appeared that crossing the city a squadron. When crossing the
circles, Manuel Antonio, with the impudence to characterized him, he shouted: "Good evening, Baron."
But he turned to face them fearful, stared at them with his fierce eyes and moved on without answering.
The queen, running, said:

- Va drunk, as usual!

Everyone nodded laughing. But deep felt all, some more than others, the same thrill to see that
sinister figure. Fernanda, for women and special status of his soul, visibly flinch, after
spending continued even through the eyes of fear of two riders until
they were lost in the shadows.

When you get into bed, his heart tightened, wanted to analyze the
emotion that dominated; wanted to go back to the cause.

He felt ashamed of it. His pride made him cry with rage and loud

- Me I care about these pranks? What I have to do with him or her?

But I just felt utter such words heated cheeks with tears.

The Heiress Estrada, Rosa quickly turned and buried her face covered with blushes, in pillows.

VII

The
increase of the quota.

The terrible difficulties should arise Emilita for marriage because of the anti-war views of his
father, he bashed her with more ease than could be expected. History does not speak (although better
reason to have that many events) that day Nunez was solemn in uniform to ask D. Christopher
the hand of his daughter, that embrace memorable it received him warmly against his chest shaking
civilian, that incredible fusion of two heterogeneous elements created to repel, and thanks to the
love a sweet and naughty angel interpenetrate and understood. If by chance this Page Private object
of attention was a historian, would have no choice but to affirm the very great importance of
such agreement, which until then had considered unlikely, and at the same time to present fairly
the back, discovering how future generations So the distinguished
patrician D. Christopher Matthew was the victim of social injustice
and persecution of their fellow citizens.

You know, everyone in Lancia authorized to give thought to this respectable old song and a former
official on the marriage of his daughter. Sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, always played
such an extent that alluded to the opinions against the development of ground forces supported
by him until then. The couple gave to be called "the increased the quota, "and some carried
their impudence to give such a name in front of his future son.

It is easy to conceive how much saliva would have had to swallow before losing, as he, an annoying
and misunderstood shame.

But despite all the rants and complaints of the neighbors, reflecting, in Matthew felt, rather
than its playful nature, envy that burned most of the hearts, "the increased quota" was making its
way. The deadline to do it was the month of August. When the time came he had acquired such
importance that, as usually in small towns, barely talked about anything else. Retired relationships
and four daughters were numerous, and they all aspired to be invited on the day of wedding.
Moreover, the same aspiration in his heart some decent and honorable Pontevedra battalion officers
friends of the future. Not being able to gather so many people Poetic Home for the Elderly,
was thought to hold the wedding in the country. The purpose home more Farm was its proximity
to the population.

D. Cristobal asked for the count, with who had extreme confidence, like his daughters, and he
hastened to put to provision.

In the Church of San Rafael was consummated early in the morning that fortunate partnership, the
sure pledge peace between the civilian and military. Fray Diego blessed him, as the priest
most bizarre and stronger anise drinker of the capital, enjoyed great prestige among the officers.
Event was attended by over twenty women and nearly as many gentlemen. As ended all moved to
the farm to spend the day. For being so near the population does not need coaches. However,
were the Count de Onis and Quiñones to transport the bride and groom
and some older people, as the two ladies de Mere.

Among the guests were almost all the gathering of the Grandee, enough of that of the de Mere and
a growing number of officers.

The count had been clean, as far as possible, the ancient mansion. Almost everyone knew him
as their home. It was the site of picnics obliged by being so close and by the beautiful forest
that I had. The counts had never refused permission. When they arrived and tasted the chocolate,
which awaited them in the vast living room with brick paving floor that served as dining-room
without ceremony spread through the house and farm ready to kill the hours until the best possible
way to sound the eating. The bride, Amalia, who was her godmother, and two other ladies went
to sit in a severely rooms. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks red and tried in vain dress with a
dignified and serious continent's deep emotion that seized. Which the accompanied, married all
the cherished endlessly, passing his hand through his hair, giving pat on the cheek, taking her hands
and occasionally leaning over to print a kiss on her forehead with the condescending, half tender,
half ironic, that the veterans contemplate marriage to the fledgling. No one of those that
when approaching a girlfriend not vibrate in your chest feel the echo of distant music and
some divine comes to her lips like honey from the remote moon, but it comes oh! with some
years left bitterish matrimonial prose. In every married woman is a disillusioned poet of his
muse.

Hence the baironiana smile on your face to see the joy that burns in the eyes of a bride.

Emilita
character had changed in a quarter of an hour. All playful and pert that had shown until then,
now appeared serious and brochette. Discoursed wisely with midwives, their partners, about the
installation of the pantry, domestic service all considered in terrible decline, the price
of meat. So old that had done in this quarter of an hour, which surprised not to see and a strand
of silver in her hair gold.

In contrast to her sisters, strange contrast, I had taken some years off since the lower take
up office. Had regressed to childhood. As creatures eager to air and light to grow, the forest
lanzáronse three, encouraging their loud screams and innocent silence and peace that reigned there.
Virgen del Amparo what they jumped, they laughed at the mischief that took place in those short little
crazy! To indulge in innocent games, which required that they had experienced recoil Suddenly,
the blankets are removed, leaving the hair loose, pull the gloves, fan, the umbrella, anything
that might symbolize youth and joyful stay with attributes adolescence. Not only do they float
on your back your hair angelic, but clock shed, bracelets and rings that deliver to his dad,
hanging before his neck to make a thousand strokes as simple and passionate girls who were,
done and observing that some officers of the battalion worthy of the contemplation Pontevedra,
fleeing blushing and confused, we include skirts with pins to leave open the foot and leg,
and the innocence of his heart run away, always fleeing through the woods forward, dodging and
nymphs of Diana the burning eyes of the officers.

And when they reach a secluded and lonely where shadows thicken, which fail worldly noises
nor penetrate the malicious eyes of men, called with cries of joy, like birds of God, her friends,
invite them to come and enjoy this nice free security where they can show their thanks and
be safe recreation surprised. Then a proposed play the string and the other access clapping his
hands. Jovita is the first. Jump, jump until it is exhausted and is dropped on the grass touching
his heart, throbbing with the fatigue, not the insane turmoil youthful lusts. Then jump another,
then another and another until they all tend lifeless but smiling, reflecting on their sweaty
cheeks and his eyes narrowed the sweet joy escaping from an innocent chest. And as lie intends
to play "the kite that dan - onion with the bread. "What a laugh! What merriment! The sleeping
forest resounds with silvery voices of those beautiful and gentle creatures! Tired of this game
spread for a moment. Some are group sitting at the foot of an oak tree trunk and counted in
low voice, as soft chirping thousand charming childish, others passionately delivered in search
of blue flowers and bouquets made with them placed on the chest, others pursued, like the swallows
in the air with piercing shrieks. Others, the more determined, devote their efforts to hunt
grasshoppers and other bugs fearful. But then turn to join because there is a very giddy girl who bets
to climb a tree if the help, and there other malignant says yes, she will help. Hands. He began the
spirited young called Consuelo, to put their feet upon the oak ridges more affordable. The
evil companion, which is nothing to Socorro, the third siren retired, holds. Climb at the end
of the first in the cross of two branches; rises after another, applauding nymphs and encourage
with shouts of enthusiasm ...

But behold, Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, a man attested to
their peers bold Gun and a devastating genius for females, it occurs
suddenly rear its bold head above a thicket.

The nymphs, seeing him, cry out and are petrified attitude in the surprise. Consuelo, from the top
of the tree, he apostrophizes violence. If your hand was immediately trasformaría deer that
new Actaeon. Here, for between ourselves, it is possible that a husband preferred to first transform it,
without prejudice go ahead on the classic metamorphosis ... But Rubio, the lieutenant of the third,
known well the value of these cries, and these apostrophes. Do not flinch, smile mischievously
and called hoarsely to their brothers in arms. What confusion, fear among those smiling daughters
of forests to approach their children in close column of Mars! No pick blankets, and gloves, and
umbrellas, anything short of what belonged flee and disband the forest screaming in terror. But
the red pants satyrs pursue them with a vengeance, are caught here and there and bring them captive
in the midst of hideous laughter. Meanwhile the poor Consuelo, and locked up the tree for
three of these sylvan voluptuous absolutely refuses to go down when not away at least fifty
yards. They Cruel! denied. Pray the nymph, irritated, is about to mourn, but not anger or get tears
soften the hardened heart of the infamous satyrs. Finally resigned to descend and, although it takes
many precautions castes, they fail to see a foot deliciously shoes and a leg birth makes them roar with
delight. But where is Rubio? Where is the most terrible and ferocious of them all? It is not
known, but long after leaving the woods dragging Socorro, the most sentimental of the sprites
of D. Cristobal. In the cruel features of his face is painted the expression of triumph, and
in hers shame and submission of a captive. Many hours later, the last of the night, sitting at a coffee
table and surrounded Marañón eight or ten of his colleagues, Lt. the third narrated with evil
smile expiration of the nymph, calculating at least in three or four who managed to steal kisses
in different places on his face sorcerer and all the sons of Mars cheered and celebrated with
this new triumph Homeric laughter of his heroic partner.

Finally, the winners were not too tyrants, and order was restored by the timely arrival of the
Miss de Mere, who were accompanied by Maria Josefa and Paco Gomez. The authors and solely
responsible for everything that had drawn the bottom of the chest. Carmelita Alepin wore a dress
of black silk that came to light only in large occasions, whereas Nuncita and therefore had fewer
years and respectability, could wear a suit clear with embroidered
flowers, as only seen in pictures of the last century.

Were happy eyes brimming with satisfaction, but the legs did not respond to that eternal youth
their hearts, walking paths relying on crutches and with his free hand holding the arms of
their escorts. They were received with cheers and hurrahs. It also heard some Family tired phrases,
such that no more than blessed to Meré indulged and laughed. That's why the teasing had little
merit. Ever there was a case of seeing them angry with friends, and that some slipped in together
until reaching quite a few times to rudeness. On the other hand were very prone to internal strife,
that is, to chafe each other, but we know how long these masses stopped.

The reckless spirit of Lieutenant Rubio, crowded by circumstances engendered an idea most happy,
to wit: that to better spend the time until dinner time to be constructed a swing, where the
ladies could enjoy the happiness of a few moments to shake off the diaphragm, and to provide
them knights gallantly moving the unit. Said and done: the search strings, a table saw, in less
than a quarter of an hour is all over. Rubio, while carrying out, it is still expressive wink
to his companions, including, smiling, silent, deeply admired, as
always, boldness and penetration of Lieutenant of the third.

Already tied the swing. Who is first? All show the same shame, her cheeks flushing same. One
would think wickedly propose Nuncita try it out. The others applaud the idea. Resists Nuncita
terrified. Carmelita or grant nor denies permission. Instances are repeated endlessly. The young
men find the idea increasingly original. Finally, almost by force, between the frantic applause
of the circle, Cuervo, the Herculean ensign of the first, lifted the girl in his arms and sits
on the table.

- Hold on tight, Nuncia! - Paco Gómez yells, while the lieutenant said, and some other friends
start rocking.

- Soft, soft! - Carmelita exclaims.

Do not worry, they do so because they fear to find her on the ground.

But even moving the swing sparingly, the air gets up, before long, the skirts of the old maid.
The officers laugh and push the swing to make it look more.

- Strong,
strong, that something is caught! - Paco Gómez yells.

 I don't know as it would make much matter to me, but such
as my notions is, I shall stick to 'em as long as the craft holds together. You can bring up
the girl in your own way; it's made a good woman of you, or found you one, which is most likely,
and so she may take her chance. But I stand for Church and King, and so shall the boys, as
sure as my name's Ben Marston.'

Chapter 2

Father was one of those people that gets shut of a deal of trouble in this world by always
sticking to one thing. If he said he'd do this or that he always did it and nothing else. As
for turning him, a wild bull half-way down a range was a likelier try-on. So nobody ever bothered
him after he'd once opened his mouth. They knew it was so much lost labour. I sometimes thought
Aileen was a bit like him in her way of sticking to things. But then she was always right, you see.

So that clinched it. Mother gave in like a wise woman, as she was. The clergyman from Bargo
came one day and christened me and Jim--made one job of it. But mother took Aileen herself
in the spring cart all the way to the township and had her christened in the chapel, in the
middle of the service all right and regular, by Father Roche.

There's good and bad of every sort, and I've met plenty that were no chop of all churches;
but if Father Roche, or Father anybody else, had any hand in making mother and Aileen half
as good as they were, I'd turn to-morrow, if I ever got out again. I don't suppose it was the
religion that made much difference in our case, for Patsey Daly and his three brothers, that
lived on the creek higher up, were as much on the cross as men could be, and many a time I've
seen them ride to chapel and attend mass, and look as if they'd never seen a 'clearskin' in
their lives. Patsey was hanged afterwards for bush-ranging and gold robbery, and he had more
than one man's blood to answer for. Now we weren't like that; we never troubled the church
one way or the other. We knew we were doing what we oughtn't to do, and scorned to look pious
and keep two faces under one hood.

By degrees we all grew older, began to be active and able to do half a man's work. We learned
to ride pretty well--at least, that is we could ride a bare-backed horse at full gallop through
timber or down a range; could back a colt just caught and have him as quiet as an old cow in
a week. We could use the axe and the cross-cut saw, for father dropped that sort of work himself,
and made Jim and I do all the rough jobs of mending the fences, getting firewood, milking the
cows, and, after a bit, ploughing the bit of flat we kept in cultivation.

Jim and I, when we were fifteen and thirteen--he was bigger for his age than I was, and so
near my own strength that I didn't care about touching him--were the smartest lads on the creek,
father said--he didn't often praise us, either. We had often ridden over to help at the muster
of the large cattle stations that were on the side of the range, and not more than twenty or
thirty miles from us.

Some of our young stock used to stray among the squatters' cattle, and we liked attending the
muster because there was plenty of galloping about and cutting out, and fun in the men's hut
at night, and often a half-crown or so for helping some one away with a big mob of cattle or
a lot for the pound. Father didn't go himself, and I used to notice that whenever we came up
and said we were Ben Marston's boys both master and super looked rather glum, and then appeared
not to think any more about it. I heard the owner of one of these stations say to his managing
man, 'Pity, isn't it? fine boys, too.' I didn't understand what they meant. I do now.

We could do a few things besides riding, because, as I told you before, we had been to a bit
of a school kept by an old chap that had once seen better days, that lived three miles off,
near a little bush township. This village, like most of these places, had a public-house and
a blacksmith's shop. That was about all. The publican kept the store, and managed pretty well
to get hold of all the money that was made by the people round about, that is of those that
were 'good drinking men'. He had half-a-dozen children, and, though he was not up to much,
he wasn't that bad that he didn't want his children to have the chance of being better than
himself. I've seen a good many crooked people in my day, but very few that, though they'd given
themselves up as a bad job, didn't hope a bit that their youngsters mightn't take after them.
Curious, isn't it? But it is true, I can tell you. So Lammerby, the publican, though he was
a greedy, sly sort of fellow, that bought things he knew were stolen, and lent out money and
charged everybody two prices for the things he sold 'em, didn't like the thought of his children
growing up like Myall cattle, as he said himself, and so he fished out this old Mr. Howard,
that had been a friend or a victim or some kind of pal of his in old times, near Sydney, and
got him to come and keep school.

He was a curious man, this Mr. Howard. What he had been or done none of us ever knew, but he
spoke up to one of the squatters that said something sharp to him one day in a way that showed
us boys that he thought himself as good as he was. And he stood up straight and looked him
in the face, till we hardly could think he was the same man that was so bent and shambling
and broken-down-looking most times. He used to live in a little hut in the township all by
himself. It was just big enough to hold him and us at our lessons. He had his dinner at the
inn, along with Mr. and Mrs. Lammerby. She was always kind to him, and made him puddings and
things when he was ill. He was pretty often ill, and then he'd hear us our lessons at the bedside,
and make a short day of it.

Mostly he drank nothing but tea. He used to smoke a good deal out of a big meerschaum pipe
with figures on it that he used to show us when he was in a good humour. But two or three times
a year he used to set-to and drink for a week, and then school was left off till he was right.
We didn't think much of that. Everybody, almost, that we knew did the same--all the men--nearly
all, that is--and some of the women--not mother, though; she wouldn't have touched a drop of
wine or spirits to save her life, and never did to her dying day. We just thought of it as
if they'd got a touch of fever or sunstroke, or broke a rib or something. They'd get over it
in a week or two, and be all right again.

All the same, poor old Mr. Howard wasn't always on the booze, not by any manner of means. He
never touched a drop of anything, not even ginger-beer, while he was straight, and he kept
us all going from nine o'clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, summer and winter,
for more than six years. Then he died, poor old chap--found dead in his bed one morning. Many
a basting he gave me and Jim with an old malacca cane he had with a silver knob to it. We were
all pretty frightened of him. He'd say to me and Jim and the other boys, 'It's the best chance
of making men of yourselves you ever had, if you only knew it. You'll be rich farmers or settlers,
perhaps magistrates, one of these days--that is, if you're not hanged. It's you, I mean,' he'd
say, pointing to me and Jim and the Dalys; 'I believe some of you WILL be hanged unless you
change a good deal. It's cold blood and bad blood that runs in your veins, and you'll come
to earn the wages of sin some day. It's a strange thing,' he used to say, as if he was talking
to himself, 'that the girls are so good, while the boys are delivered over to the Evil One,
except a case here and there. Look at Mary Darcy and Jane Lammerby, and my little pet Aileen
here. I defy any village in Britain to turn out such girls--plenty of rosy-cheeked gigglers--but
the natural refinement and intelligence of these little damsels astonishes me.'

Well, the old man died suddenly, as I said, and we were all very sorry, and the school was
broken up. But he had taught us all to write fairly and to keep accounts, to read and spell
decently, and to know a little geography. It wasn't a great deal, but what we knew we knew
well, and I often think of what he said, now it's too late, we ought to have made better use
of it. After school broke up father said Jim and I knew quite as much as was likely to be any
good to us, and we must work for our living like other people. Nuncita is so scared she has no time to think in the assault.

-
Lord Lieutenant!

Captain Lord! - Carmelita trembling cries, waving arms, lower jaw toothless, beating against
the superior, toothless, too, with a shudder .-- particular Captain, Please God! For the Virgen del Amor
Hermoso! ... Stop! Stop! ... Stop!

- Sooo! - Paco exclaims.

But the captain is Swedish and is pressing. Nuncita petticoats are already in the most where they can
reach high peak. The girls are back again, some are laughing to hide among the trees. Only when
they had accomplished their work of shamelessness was achieved deferred
and that officers would enable Nuncita to land.

His sister, instead of being angry with the guilty, the embarks with her rage-filled, vibrating
beams from his eyes.

- Get out, naughty! Scandalous! Is that the education that you learned from your parents? Is
it So what I advised the confessor?

Nuncita, terrified, he begins to pout and drop the key of tears. Youth male, like female, try
to calm the enraged Carmelita.

Captain and the ensign throw all the blame upon himself. It is in vain. The anger does not turn
off until it While downloading offensive words and heavy. The poor girl, sitting on the floor, sobbing,
with his face buried in his hands, excited the compassion of all those present, who never
cease intercede for her.

The question is which one has to get into the swing later.

Nothing pleases natural. How should they be left swinging by men so bold and shameless? Military
is in vain countrymen and explain his conduct in the previous event and make an oath not to reoffend
and be frugal and prudent, and always orders the ladies.

They do not trust.

Especially Rubio Lieutenant inspires considering a panic, and not without reason, as the soul
from any lustful intrigue.

But the more hopeless they were, behold, Consuelo, dazed and determined little girl that had recently
been perched on a tree, talk to your ear to a partner and then forward and says, in horror of
his companions:

- I upload. You help me.

A scream of excitement greeted these simple words. For a few moments there was no more Consuelo
to live! Consuelo alive! the crowd frenzied.

No one is unwilling to help and who does not fill them with flowers
and entertainment.

The lieutenant athletic, with a gesture of chivalry, put one knee and asks her to freeze her
foot on his thigh. The intrepid young is not to pray and run it, sitting in a jump in the
table. The same military the promise countrymen happy and change each other looks of intelligence,
determined to break his word and pay the trust of the girl with the blackest treason. But when
they were about to kick off their evil work by pushing the device
does sign Consuelo his partner.

It moves forward with a handful of pins and in a moment he turns on the petticoats underneath, so
there is no way that you see or even toe throw a flying swing. Female sex crazy applauds enthusiastically.

-
Well, Consuelo! Good!

The masculine, angry and sulky, dare not, however, to protest loudly, but murmurs that lack of
confidence, while interested, proud of its occurrence, looks on with a mocking smile. The misery
was complete. The Alfileritos obtained a success so flattering that there was no girl who ascend
to the device that fails to take sewing clothes previously with them.

While such memorable scenes were made in the forest, Jaime Moro, disdaining the pleasures countryside,
had been catechize Fray Diego and D. Juan Estrada-Rosa to take a tresillito. Was bored in
church, was bored in the forest in the city and the countryside. Recovered only serenity of mind
and was reborn in him calm and happy when I took the cards hand. As luck would be of hardship.
There were no cards in the house. But why is not afraid. Down to the kitchen, separate calls
to a servant, who seemed lighter and muscular, and giving tip instructs it to go full speed into
the city and bring a pair of Barajitas.

While therefore, not to escape it, make mighty efforts to entertain their peers, speaking of what
else may be interested, especially to Don Juan, who expressed trends strongly marked to desert, tempted
by the idea absurd for a walk in the fifth and make a visit to the mill and other guests. Moro
was sweating with fear of not being able to grief resist until the return of the servant. Fortunately
it arrived on time. As he had in his possession the coveted decks and was another man. Sure
of victory by dragging them to one room removed from the mansion, it is appropriate to bring a table,
candles, beer, cigarettes, and we there! ... Having been to lose two fingers, Jaime Moro enjoyed
that happiness with a noisy joy it caused envy.

A good crowd of people ridiculous without imagination enough to understand, or taste the sweetness
the triplet, was gone, retired to the head, to travel and visit possession after new mill that
the earl had ridden a short time ago. They formed the party, among others, the boyfriend, the
captain himself Núñez, with those of their less favorable female, Garnet, D. Enrique Valero,
Saleta, Manin and a few others. The count was not could drag because he was not found. It
said he was giving orders to the servants and monitoring some works far away, but was not
found either in them. One foreman was doing there steward or medium provided to serve as a guide.

The
farm was situated on the gentle slope of the hill where it is established Lancia. Behind the
house is the forest, depriving him of sight in the city. So to be so close it seems to be a hundred
miles of it, in the kind of loneliness field. At the same time protect against the winds of
North and West, leaving only open to the mild and beneficent streams coming from the south
and east. Fail up there the sounds of the population. Only the cathedral bells ring true sweet
hour muffled by distance. The main road is behind the forest. Another little girl, who starts
it, puts it in communication with the fifth.

No is in this, as we know, no English park or French, or garden, or waterfalls, caves or artificial.
It is a half of recreational land, half of work.

First forest, then the house with his run, then a vast and neglected garden, then meadows immense
that extend along the foot of the hill and come to the river and still saved and swell on the
opposite shore.

For these grassland is grazing cattle, you hear their bells and the
barking of dogs.

It is easy to forge the illusion of being within solitary nature. Peace is deep and only interrupts
the song of a bird or the lowing of a cow.

Hikers walked the blocks, which were well cared for, as the count had love of farming. However,
Saleta said the Netherlands had seen much better.

- Go figure, gentlemen
- said with his characteristic Galician accent - there to cows were
tied with a rope tail, you know? and have it suspended so that when
given the desire to provide what can be done without getting dirty.

This news, rigorously accurate, it burst out laughing to the present.

- But this D. Ramon when they tire of inventing nonsense! - They said to each other under his
breath, all because of that damned liar reputation it had acquired.

- Pue atrazaiyo eztán well in Holland, a friend Zaleta - Valero said that would not let him go a .--
In Manchester, when a cow he wants from ezo, ze Zientara him in a toilet and ze the sewage treatment
clean with toilet paper.

Saleta took no offense. I was so accustomed to the disbelief of his audience, although now
bursting with impatient really not not believe him.

When they had walked the blocks took the way of the cross-country meadows, and fell trimmed
down to the river, for both of the banks, alder, poplar and willow, which were here and there a
bush thick below which ran dark and gloomy. Lora is a river of the less abundant and at the same
time the most original of Spain. Before arriving the sea, "which is death," as the poet said, is arranged
to give plenty of laps as a wily old intended to mock the common law created beings. Impossible to
imagine an extravagant runway. Exits any very determined and booming population, looks set to
swallow the leagues and fearless go to the ocean. But on the fourth of a league repents turns
and slow and slouched back near the point of departure, which suggests a some, not without foundation,
walking uphill. Out again, not by choice, but pressed by circumstances, this time out of sight,
the whole world believes to be really never to return. Not so, however. The big fox, when he understands
that he no longer seen from the village, very underhanded toss and again tries to get him,
but he ashamed, and before coming away a bit, it goes to a village near the same council. Never
pursued a career frank and open. Like all characters discounted, repugnant light, uses every
situation to slip under a rock or a bush and hide the gaze of men
and remain stuck there, rotting in degrading idleness.

No one is wary of him. With its appearance of old and rheumatic invalid, unable to take a step,
has misled many shepherds. Invites you to swim into thinking they do not have half a yard background,
and then chokes miserably among its green waters. There will be within breaking beauty of
celestial nymphs swimming with their fragile alabaster arms crystals, not to leave at night to
play on her lymph the graceful mermaids, blond-haired.

Lora river is silent, enemy of all poetic idealism. Nothing fantastic beings. The fed only
true love is a swarm of frogs, so big that causes vertigo thinking how many of them live under
its protection. They are in charge of cheer with her melodious voice the places he travels.

They were also prevented with deafening noise that they Saleta could argue, as later claimed
that they were away, that being on the banks of Yumurí one afternoon, he had the kill with one
stone a crocodile. True that under the gaze of his insistent Valero colleague was quick to correct
stating that the crocodile was still a puppy and had no more than a run of teeth.

Continued good stretch the margin Shady Lora and crossed by a rustic bridge the place where the
earl had bled through a ditch, to move to his mill. But at that point, friends of the groom,
genuine representatives of the element more vigorous and masculine battalion, they suddenly
wake up the feeling of muscular strength and power of his legs. A lieutenant jumps the ditch. A captain,
not be less than the subordinate does too, but wet feet. Excited-esteem, takes off his coat and
goes again with happiness. The others imitate. Instantly making that the appearance of the
Olympic Games and still more of the great American batuda. But Núñez is an outstanding jumping.
That was long known throughout the army and more particularly in the infantry weapon. Jumped three
or four times with ease, but, wanting, as Of course, overcome their gallant comrades and give
proof of his skill, says in a tone dismissive "that is worth nothing" and that he is able
to jump the ditch, turning the back. These words were received with respect by his colleagues,
but also silence that the captain struck him doubtfully. And without further ado resolve confused.
Does not shed only one item of uniform, this is for newbies, takes
flight, and arriving the water's edge turns and jumps, but with such
bad luck that your feet get tangled rushes in and falls back as long
as it was in the middle of the stream.

Is hidden from sight of his friends for a while, and finally out snorting and splashing like
a real triton saying that there is nothing and it will jump again
to display.

But his father- does not consent. I ran my hands through the body to make sure it's draft (how
had to be!) and dam of insane excitement, he who had only recently
been exterminated in full to all the militia, began to shout:

- It
is necessary to move!

... Right now! ... A pneumonia! ... Moving! ... Friction! ... A rheumatic fever!

And other exclamations more or less consistent, which gave testimony to the keen interest health
officer inspired.

Nunez, though a warrior, yields to his request and returns to the
house to face fierce grimly, determined to be removed entirely to
socks and go to bed while Lancia is sent by itself to a mute.

All your friends around you, and so come to the house. Emilita, which is the balcony, seeing them
in that guise, she asked with surprise:

- What is that?

- Nothing - her dad yells, - that Nunez has fallen into the ditch.

Naturally Emilita hearing this heartbreaking cries out and falls fainting into the arms of several
ladies. Nunez, a hero, despising their own health, run to her rescue. In a few moments fills
the room with glasses of water and also come to light two or three bottles of antispasmodic.
When he begins to regain consciousness and reach the turning point of tears, her sister Micaela
can not be contained, violently scolds his dad.

- This has been a real barbarity!

Have you figured that her daughter has a heart bronze?

... Well little finesse is needed to hurt this way to a poor creature ...

The poor creature that defense pays a loving look in his eyes wet, squeezing while hand. The
retiree is in the last stage of depression and just dare to murmur "that live Núñez seeing his
side so there was no reason for fright." The Micaela ladies judge that has been disrespectful to his
father, but at the same time can not least agree that what has been a bullet, and manifest the
unhappy wife an ardent sympathy.

VIII

Fernanda wine.

Fernanda had not witnessed any of this. It was first thing in the
forest, making bashful nymph like her classmates, but soon tired of
the paper, turned away from them and began to think for the most solitary
places. His head, as always upright, bent under the weight of boredom
or worry, its flexible size, undulating, moving without a compass
spinning to and fro like a drunken man's body, dragged his eyes on
the ground, those beautiful African eyes were the most precious ornament
of the noble city of Lancia, and his face pale crossing a very deep
wrinkles, a sign of fixed and painful thought. Had much tortured for
two months! The impression that loves the Count had left in his soul,
choked at first by the pride, hope to return to them, had dilated
suddenly to discover the secret of their diversion, had burst into
her, had filled and burned all the love and jealousy. They were all
the more harsh as he clearly saw Luis had been cheating long time,
he had pretended he loved and to love when another. It will pay
us wages and something over. If you like to go in with me, we'll go share and share. I know
what hands you both are at splitting and fencing. What do you say?'

Jim, poor Jim, was inclined to take George's offer. He was that good-hearted that a kind word
would turn him any time. But I was put out at his laying it down so about the Dalys and us
shantying and gaffing, and I do think now that some folks are born so as they can't do without
a taste of some sort of fun once in a way. I can't put it out clear, but it ought to be fixed
somehow for us chaps that haven't got the gift of working all day and every day, but can do
two days' work in one when we like, that we should have our allowance of reasonable fun and
pleasure--that is, what we called pleasure, not what somebody thinks we ought to take pleasure
in. Anyway, I turned on George rather rough, and I says, 'We're not good enough for the likes
of you, Mr. Storefield. It's very kind of you to think of us, but we'll take our own line and
you take yours.'

'I'm sorry for it, Dick, and more sorry that you take huff at an old friend. All I want is
to do you good, and act a friend's part. Good-bye--some day you'll see it.'

'You're hard on George,' says Jim, 'there's no pleasing you to-day; one would think there were
lots of chaps fighting how to give us a lift. Good-bye, George, old man; I'm sorry we can't
wire in with you; we'd soon knock out those posts and rails on the ironbark range.'

'You'd better stop, Jim, and take a hand in the deal,' says I (or, rather, the devil, for I
believe he gets inside a chap at times), 'and then you and George can take a turn at local-preaching
when you're cut out. I'm off.' So without another word I jumped on to my horse and went off
down the hill, across the creek, and over the boulders the other side, without much caring
where I was going. The fact was, I felt I had acted meanly in sneering at a man who only said
what he did for my good; and I wasn't at all sure that I hadn't made a breach between Gracey
and myself, and, though I had such a temper when it was roused that all the world wouldn't
have stopped me, every time I thought of not seeing that girl again made my heart ache as if
it would burst.

I was nearly home before I heard the clatter of a horse's feet, and Jim rode up alongside of
me. He was just the same as ever, with a smile on his face. You didn't often see it without one.

I knew he had come after me, and had given up his own fancy for mine.

'I thought you were going to stay and turn good,' I said. A single source of sadness clouded and
in light of his thoughts serene. An impious and sacrilegious hands had stolen from the cathedral
a small, artistic and gorgeous, custody. How great would be the joy of Prisca when learned from
the canon, his confessor, a very rich and pious man had sent enough money for another custody, similar
to the stolen and no less beautiful, be at the cost and outside his the ornament and glory of this
church! True architect of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe Cellini, olvidadoen the center
of this provincial town, making the new custody reproducing inspired breathtaking beauties in ancient
few seemed. Prisca, old man's friend architect, goes daily to see and celebrate progress in the
manufacture of new custody. Strange, complicated and passionate mix of emotions stirred the hearts
and minds of Prisca when he learns that the person who made the generous donation is the boyfriend
who had abandoned, which rich and happy lives in very distant regions! Unable to resist his weakened
body to the violence of the emotions that stir the spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness,
and breathed his last when finished and the new custody, passes in solemn and triumphant procession
through the door of his house. The memories of puppy love and the later mysticism of life Prisca
amalgamate and melt gently in his soul in those last moments, purifying and exalting in such a
way past love earth, not heaven's sake profane or put the slightest stain on cleaning.

Without affectation of archaism and purism, but in the most natural
and spontaneous language Mr. Lee Roberts is pure and in all of his
stories, and scenes describing copied from the natural look, with
accuracy in the details, and without the author's small vexed by neat,
defects in which usually fall on a day not a few novelists.

Very reasonable hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts will be one of the best that Spain can boast this
century, give us the short stories written and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz
de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest,
is entitled The chasm.

If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill
for drawing and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to
develop an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end
and outcome that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is
known to be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe,
it is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting
born or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear
real world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.

 Jim and I are quite able to manage our own affairs, as I told
him this evening, when I refused to have anything to do with his fencing arrangement.'

'Oh, Dick, did you?' she said. 'What a pity! I made sure Jim would have liked it so, for only
last week he said he was sick and tired of having nothing to do--that he should soon lose all
his knack at using tools that he used to be so proud of. Didn't he say he'd like to join George?'

'He would, I daresay, and I told him to do as he liked. I came away by myself, and only saw
him just before we crossed the range. He's big enough and old enough to take his own line.'

'But you know he thinks so much of you,' she groaned out, 'that he'd follow you to destruction.
That will be the end of it, depend upon it, Dick. I tell you so now; you've taken to bad ways;
you'll have his blood on your head yet.'

'Jim's old enough and big enough to take care of himself,' I said sulkily. 'If he likes to
come my way I won't hinder him; I won't try to persuade him one way or the other. Do you earn and thrive day laborers, five or six that are of real wages, use two or three
came and one in snuff, perhaps hunger killing their wives and children? "Win's husband, weak
or vain, who insists that his wife has a box at the Opera? Do you earn, in short, which do not
save, which consumes more than it produces, which on income its capital spending, which has the
ability to acquire ten and need to eat thirty or a hundred? Of course, not wins, but loses, and finally
broke. And what happens individuals, can not happen, rather it is with the nations? Just as
there are individuals low ability to produce and very able to spend, there can be, and no nations
with the same qualities? Laziness, waste and incompetence, "can not occur in a nation as given
in a guy?

I do not fear any European nation, no matter how fraught it is for the above ailments, come at
last to be lost and destroyed, as were destroyed and lost those colossal empires the center of Asia,
as those powerful civilizations collapsed, wonder of the world old. I do not fear to Madrid,
Seville, Lisbon or Florence, you will come to pass Sidon and Tyre that, Susa, Ecbatana, Nineveh
and Babylon Bactra. Although consume much more of what they produced, the punishment would be
limited to long periods of forced abstinence and pitiful plight, that the delay in relation
to other peoples of Europe were higher, and to continue dragging and dropping like a trailer
the other nations. But such is faith I have in progressive virtue, in the vital energy of
European civilization I can not even conceive that a nation that is dying in her womb powerful
and exhilarating. However, the withdrawal of which we spoke, the troubles, going to the trailer
and shame backwardness and inferiority, they are still tough punishment.

To discourse, from a fixed point on these issues so difficult, should first explain why certain phenomena
which offers modern European civilization, phenomena it seems contrary to everything that in ancient
civilizations was noticeable, whence there now comes the award, given by axiomatic, and are
entirely contrary to other sentences that little has passed through also axiomatic.

In the old, and in the old saying do not go very far (Michael Montaigne and Machiavelli thought
so), rudeness and poverty was thought that gave impetus to the nations and nerve while wealth and
culture of the enervated. Alejandro was poor and rich beat Darius poor and rough were subjugated
by the Romans and the enlightened, educated and wealthy kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria and Egypt.
When the Goths invaded Greece, reports that tried to burn all libraries, but a clever and discreet
captain of the Goths had to persuade them to libraries were effeminate Greeks, docks and cowardly,
and that this was appropriate leave the books to have them always under the yoke. In this way the
libraries were saved.

Nowadays, however, if a nation decided to undercut another, seek make ignorant and poor. Science
and wealth, far from thin people today, give them energy and strength, but things well considered, there
is the slightest contradiction in it. In the old, once one of the most common means of acquiring
wealth to the strip neighbors through war. On this day, although these remains, these violent robberies
continue to be, not made in such a grand scale. Milder manners do not agree. The war, moreover,
this mode of stripping violently one nation to another, has become tired expensive. Production
costs in modern warfare tend to be much greater than what is produced, if produced can be called
what it takes against the will of its owner. Hence, first Instead, they hardly undertake any
war and the purpose of enriching, and second , that rich people are those who have more means
to the war and probability of winning. Before, the people are strong and warriors were so
rich; on the day the people get rich in order to be strong and warriors. No doubt will develop
more, when people get rich just to be more moral, happier and more enlightened, but this is still
far. The mania to dominate and prevail over other not be cured in many centuries.

Today not a few authors argue, Buckle and others, as celebrated throughout
the world, that Political Economy conspires an irresistible way to
end the bloody wars, to that utopia of perpetual peace come to be.

For this, no doubt, and for other reasons no less singular, have become so crazy extreme admiration,
adoration and fanaticism of Political Economy. For Buckle, Adam Smith has done more for humanity
than all wise, all prophets and all the immortal geniuses who are born mother and that have human
flesh covered in this naughty world. Neither the laws of Solon, Numa and Manu or all books of
philosophy, or the Gospels themselves, compared with a damn Wealth of Nations. According to Buckle,
the Wealth of Nations is "the most important book who has ever written, its publication has
contributed most to the happiness of the human lineage that talent gathered from all statesmen
and all legislators, who keeps us remember the story a real thing. "

All this may be true, but it is also true that since the year 1776, which came to light for
the first time the book divine Savior, Redeemer and peacemaker, wars have been so frequent as
ever and a thousand times more frightening by the millions of men
in them have perished miserably.

When there is no war, there is a bad thing, perhaps worse than War: armed peace. Money spent
foolishly in maintaining huge armies, and strong men, young and strong in Europe, away from
all useful work are provided with weapons in hand, stalking, spying and threatened. True Economy
Politics and the wonderful book by Adam Smith have not been remedied so wrong. If anything
of remedying it, must be the philosophy, religion better understood than in other centuries,
and the very excess of evil, which might end up make it impossible.

The means of destruction are increased by such art that it is feared that soon may in a minute
kill millions of men, can be fired in a second more bombs, bullets and shrapnel than a century
has skyrocketed in thirty or forty years, and such and so loud shots
may be that the cost of one is sufficient to maintain for a whole
year family.

Spending so much horror and so much bloodshed, the politicians cry, and cry and many, even for
peace and disarmament, not because Adam Smith and his disciples the been convinced. I do not
think that Napoleon III has the heart of butter and jelly; but the awful spectacle of the battlefield
of Solferino, so many thousands of corpses, had to be worrying and the heart, deciding to peace,
even before their promise to free Italy to the Adriatic. Adam Smith and all his theories were not
any part in this determination.

If any economic thinking prevent war or make more difficult in coming, is independent of science:
it is not necessary to have read by economists to conceive. Thought is simple and clear: it
is the thought of how much the war costs. Governments also almost always have to resort to borrowing
to make war.

Those who lend money have an interest in the money provided is grown as possible, So, even without have
other causes, the role of low debt and have the public wealth.

Those who have to lose, the rich men are, therefore, peaceful, and as those with money rule the
day more than ever and have a very large influence on opinion, is that wars are condemned by
public opinion, when there is a strong encouragement of selfishness
that induces them, as, for example, opening a new market for domestic
products, introduced in some countries the freedom to worship little
trade, divine works of Adam Smith, opium or other drugs worse, guns
and bayonets, entertain and recreate and intoxicate the people with
glory so as not to annoy and to rise up, and perhaps disposal, following
the doctrines of an economist, of that part of the population is more
than enough, which is not covered prepared at the feast of life, that
disturbs or breaks the balance that must exist between the output
and consumption, including still and livelihoods.

Besides material and bloody war, has taken in our days that never again rise war brings to
humanity infinite goods, and takes on wings, not by the way real progress, but for a trail
or shortcut. But, as there is no shortcut without work, this another war, which is the industrial
and commercial, fearing disturbances arise, hard conditions, horrible and heartbreaking disappointments
ruins. Does not concern me explain this or do here satire as being of modern societies. I
refer the reader to the Socialists, children legitimate economists and their more cruel and bitter
adversaries. Even the Economy Policy had no greater sin than to have raised their breasts to
socialism could not be acquitted altogether. Moreover, socialism, except that today is just an
outbreak, a desideratum, an aspiration, is, according to some, that
is, it will be with respect to the empirical and pedestrian Political
Economy, which are sublime mathematics with respect to the four rules
of arithmetic.

Social science or sociology tell yourself (and ridiculous hybrid word!) is yet to be invented,
but otherwise the positivists hold. The trouble is that problems that this science has been raised
and not resolved, and criticism bold, intelligent and destructive that has been wavering faith
in the existing social order, have all filled with men suspicion, within each state, assuming always
that violence may occur to resolve the intricate problems of the newest science, to break off
their foundations throughout the building society to rely on other better and stronger. Hence
the not there is only war or armed peace between them and other States, but war or armed peace
that is, constant danger and surprise, within each state. In all which does not appear to been
remedied political economy, but came to worse.

Do not believe the discreet reader will not know what to say to my ramblings in this paper.
At the restaurant he called him an excuse meditation, meditation and being on such a vast and so
on all matters such as money. To be discussed in depth, and clarity, order and convenient method, I
would have been necessary to write a thick volume. But why, I say, you have chosen such a vast
subject, when not writing thought this thick volume, but a newspaper article? To which I answer:
a lack of money the public distress, the plight of the Treasury, the laments I hear everywhere, the
showing some hope that economists will save us, the little confidence warn others in the effectiveness
healthy economists, discreteos of all, means that many proposed, converted into an official,
to lead a safe haven, and the various explanations given about the causes of serious problem
affecting all me with irresistible vehemence has led to meditation and discourse on these issues,
in which I confess I have little or no knowledge.

But considering me as vulgar, profane, I still believe that, if not useful, at least could be entertaining
and interesting to expose him that ponders the vulgar, which Alamba and rambles on the subject.
So I have been echoed faithful of the vulgar in this meditation, embellishing it with some moral
judgments drawn from reading of the philosophers. Do not be surprised, then, that I did not
try anything, I do not conclude anything not chair a dominant thought throughout this letter
of mine.

I fear making me dilate heavy, but I can think of several comments that I have value to pass in
silence.

This is the first that, in the present state of civilization, and still am about to say that
always, not what happens to nations with individuals, which, as stated above, can be sages,
saints and poets and poor. A nation, if intelligent and active, holy, by wise and heroic and
poetic it is, must be rich too. If you become poor, gives sharp and clear signals that it
is unwise, or that is not active, or that have secular disease that has failed to heal.

It said, in 1629, the Padre Fray Benito de Peñalosa and Mondragón, in a curious book which gave
the picture that Spain is very Catholic and very monarchy, and have
three other excellence more, causing its depopulation and ruin.

Buckle says the same thing, in perfect Consistent with the Father Peñalosa, who has guessed
and unread.

Our religious and our love and loyalty to the kings have brought us so lost and so backward. In
contrast, Buckle according to the same in Scotland and there has been great prosperity and
progress. There, although also have the misfortune to be on religious, have had the good fortune
and excellent quality of being very disloyal to their sovereign.

The Scots, says Buckle, have waged war on almost all their kings have
been beheaded several, have killed others, and have even sold one
of them, a certain amount of money they much needed.

The wisdom of the Scots has earned them the prosperity and progress, and above all the glory
of Adam Smith that El Salvador is born between them.

The strange doctrine set out above, identical in Buckle and Peñalosa, can not be refuted or
censored with irony. It is necessary to dispose of them seriously. Not a matter of derision.
No. wealth and prosperity and culture do not go to the people, because people leave God and
kill or sell their princes.

In an individual, perhaps the goodness and excellence of character have been an obstacle to fortune:
in a village, we do not want or believe. Therefore, if Spain is poor today backward fault, not
his virtues, but of his vices, not of good quality, but bad.

Dan other because of our backwardness and our poverty of aridity and soil infertility, offers a
few resources, but even that aridity and sterility that were true, as a nation does not live
in the soil, but the ingenuity and industriousness of their children, could not this need to
be the origin of evil.

In past centuries and in these countries there were and are famous people who have flourished
in sterile soil. The attic floor is an example of this, and Thucydides attributed sterility
which there came to form such a glorious and prosperous state, because
in the early Greek civilization, the men fled the fertile land invaded
or continuously infested with thieves and pirates, and they came to
take refuge in Attica to be protected from the ravages and devastation.

Venice, which was so powerful and America also had a similar origin, and was founded by people
in a runaway gaps the barbarian invaders of Italy. Scotland it will be all colorful and cute
you want, but no one agrees that no course is sterile, no doubt, more sterile than Spain. The same
can be said of Holland and many other countries, if they depart from the imagination that have
already made to improve the art and ingenuity.

Thinkers have to go to the extreme, and attribute the dream or real inferiority of our civilization
to the abundance of maintenance and ease of life for poor people. This is said to loosen any
spring of action and that makes people weak and prone servitude, while in countries where
people have had to fight hard and overcome great obstacles to earn a living, after the wins
and lives, is more dignified and energetic, and less experienced in any kind of yoke and clamp. They
may eg assertion of India and Egypt, and is not to deny that they are examples that have the force.
Argue, also the cause of the backwardness of Ireland and humiliation have been the abundance
and cheapness of potatoes.

Have more reason, in my view, those who think so, that they attribute backwardness, stagnation,
or rather the ground of sterility, but I dare not to give the reason or some or other, and
especially in the case of Spain.
 We must stick to it, I suppose.'

We had kept the cattle going for three or four miles through the thickest of the country, every
now and then steering our course by the clear round top of Sugarloaf, that could be seen for
miles round, but never seemed to get any nearer, when we came on a rough sort of log-fence,
which ran the way we were going.

'I didn't think there were any farms up here,' I said to Jim.

'It's a "break",' he said, almost in a whisper. 'There's a "duffing-yard" somewhere handy;
that's what's the matter.'

'Keep the cattle along it, anyway. We'll soon see what it leads to.'

The cattle ran along the fence, as if they expected to get to the end of their troubles soon.
The scrub was terribly thick in places, and every now and then there was a break in the fence,
when one of us had to go outside and hunt them until we came to the next bit. At last we came
to a little open kind of flat, with the scrub that thick round it as you couldn't hardly ride
through it, and, just as Jim said, there was the yard.

It was a 'duffing-yard' sure enough. No one but people who had cattle to hide and young stock
they didn't want other people to see branded would have made a place there.

Just on the south side of the yard, which was built of great heavy stringy-bark trees cut down
in the line of the fence, and made up with limbs and logs, the range went up as steep as the
side of a house. The cattle were that tired and footsore--half their feet were bleeding, poor
devils--that they ran in through the sliprails and began to lay down.

'Light a fire, one of you boys,' says father, putting up the heavy sliprails and fastening
them. 'We must brand these calves before dark. One of you can go to that gunyah, just under
the range where that big white rock is, and you'll find tea and sugar and something to eat.'

Jim rushed off at once, while I sulkily began to put some bark and twigs together and build a fire.

'What's the use of all this cross work?' I said to father; 'we're bound to be caught some day
if we keep on at it. Then there'll be no one left to take care of mother and Aileen.'

He looked rather struck at this, and then said quietly--

'You and your brother can go back now. Never say I kept you against your will. You may as well
lend a hand to brand these calves; then you may clear out as soon as you like.'

Well, I didn't quite like leaving the old chap in the middle of the work like that. I remember
thinking, like many another young fool, I suppose, that I could draw back in time, just after
I'd tackled this job.

Draw back, indeed! When does a man ever get the chance of doing that, once he's regularly gone
in for any of the devil's work and wages? He takes care there isn't much drawing back afterwards.
So I said--

'We may as well give you a hand with this lot; but we'll go home then, and drop all this duffing
work. It don't pay. I'm old enough to know that, and you'll find it out yet, I expect, father,
yourself.'

'The fox lives long, and gives the hounds many a long chase before he's run into,' he said,
with a grim chuckle. 'I swore I'd be revenged on 'em all when they locked me up and sent me
out here for a paltry hare; broke my old mother's heart, so it did. I've had a pound for every
hair in her skin, and I shall go on till I die. After all, if a man goes to work cautious and
runs mute it's not so easy to catch him in this country, at any rate.'

Jim at this came running out of the cave with a face of joy, a bag of ship-biscuit, and a lot
of other things.

'Here's tea and sugar,' he said; 'and there's biscuits and jam, and a big lump of cheese. Get
the fire right, Dick, while I get some water. We'll soon have some tea, and these biscuits
are jolly.'

The tea was made, and we all had a good meal. Father found a bottle of rum, too; he took a
good drink himself, and gave Jim and me a sip each. I felt less inclined to quarrel with father
after that. So we drafted all the calves into a small pen-yard, and began to put our brand
on them as quick as we could catch 'em.

A hundred and sixty of 'em altogether--all ages, from a month old to nearly a year. Fine strong
calves, and in rare condition, too. We could see they were all belonging to Mr. Hunter and
Mr. Falkland. How they came to leave them all so long unbranded I can't say. Very careless
they often are on these large cattle-stations, so that sharp people like father and the Dalys,
and a lot more, get an easy chance at them.

Whatever father was going to do with them all when he had branded 'em, we couldn't make out.

'There's no place to tail or wean 'em,' whispered Jim. 'We're not above thirty miles from Banda
in a straight line. These cows are dead sure to make straight back the very minute they're
let out, and very nice work it'll look with all these calves with our brand on sucking these cows.'

Father happened to come round for a hot brand just as Jim finished.

'Never you mind about the weaning,' he snarled. 'I shan't ask you to tail them either. It wouldn't
be a nice job here, would it?' and father actually laughed. It wasn't a very gay kind of a
laugh, and he shut up his mouth with a sort of snap again. Jim and I hadn't seen him laugh
for I don't know how long, and it almost frightened us.

As Jim said, it wouldn't do to let the cattle out again. If calves are weaned, and have only
one brand on, it is very hard for any man to swear that they are not the property of the man
to whom that brand belongs. He may believe them to be his, but may never have seen them in
his life; and if he has seen them on a camp or on the run, it's very hard to swear to any one
particular red or spotted calf as you would to a horse.

The great dart is to keep the young stock away from their mothers until they forget one another,
and then most of the danger is past. 

[255.] Those who intend to convince our absurd dogma must prove the following.

1.

No. That passive sensibility, is as essential to the bodies, not
to be missed without missing the principle of contradiction.

2. º The relationships of our bodies, with objects, are inherently immutable.

3. º That the transmission of impressions of the organ to the sensory faculties of the soul, is
also essential and can not fail in any course.

If you do not give true propositions above, fall all the difficulties
merge into the phenomena of sensitivity.

With only miss one of these three propositions, all problems have solution: it is evident that the
phenomena of sensitivity be altered in three ways:

1. ª The absence
of the necessary body to be subjected to sensitivity.

2. ª The interruption of normal relations between our organs and body.
3. ª The lack of transmission of impressions from the organs to the
sensory faculties.

Ie that it is enough that one of the first three
propositions is false, for the unbeliever can not take a step.

[256.]
Who undertook the test three propositions, not only could be sure
of not achieving its purpose, but just try, manifestaria has not thought
about the phenomena of sensitivity on these matters and has more philosophy,
the notions the vulgar. The dog worried those that wanted to stay by the yard or turn another
way. We dropped our whip on 'em, and kept 'em going. In five minutes they were all a-moving
along in one mob at a pretty sharpish trot like a lot of store cattle. Father knew his way
about, whether the country was thick or open. It was all as one to him. What a slashing stockman
he would have made in new country, if he only could have kept straight.

It took us an hour's hard dinkum to get near the peak. Sometimes it was awful rocky, as well
as scrubby, and the poor devils of cattle got as sore-footed as babies--blood up to the knee,
some of 'em; but we crowded 'em on; there was no help for it.

At last we rounded up on a flat, rocky, open kind of a place; and here father held up his hand.

'Let 'em ring a bit; some of their tongues are out. 

His strength.

Commander, Col. D. José Cabrero.

Second, the Chief Justice of Paucartambo, D. Francisco Zelerio.

His strength.

Infantry, Spanish and Indians faithful 550

Reserve Corps.

                                               Commander, Colonel of Dragoons, D. Gabriel de Aviles.

Second, the Army Captain, D. Jose Leon. Third, the colonel of militia, D. Gabriel de Ugarte.

His
strength.

Lima infantry veteran of Guananga 300 Idem 200

TOTAL. 500

TOTAL. 15,210 ======

A more expressive of strength, two detachments were used, consisting of 1.846 men to take the
posts of Urubamba, Calca y Lares, with a view to cut off the retreat
of the rebel on that side: and after having provided the appropriate
and necessary for subsistence Army, was set in motion the day March
9, 1781, with 6 guns, ammunition and corresponding ammunition, and
according to what they had nswer the patricians of the country, The
order was given to the commanders of columns, to lead the march, in
this way.

The 1. Nd by Paucartambo Quispicanche and Ink. 2. ª Quispicanche the Gorge. 3. ª by Orocoroco
Heights, Quispicanche to Tungasuca and Ink. 4. Nd by Paruro to Livitaca, Chumbivilcas Yauri and
Coporaque Ink. 5. Nd by Cotabamba, Chumbivilcas to Livitaca. 6. Nd by Paucartambo Heights Azorayaste
Ocongari and posts, and the roster for Orocoroco highland.

Implemented all the columns and the roster for the routes indicated, began since then he undergoes
the biggest nuisance, and by the excessive rain, hail and snow, which are very common in those
high, rugged mountains, and the lack of food, fuel and other aid, which caused the rebels have
closed communications faithful to the people where they could and should behave: in whose footsteps
kept so surveillance, the troops of the King came to undergoes the greatest needs, and were nswers
sometimes to be victims of cold and hunger. But were then with laudable perseverance all these works,
inspired by the example of the Commanding General, and other officers
to be unveiled to keep them on guard to repel the insurgents, often
tried to surprise the camp, taking advantage of the time of sunrise:
whose glorious occasions always got advantages, and refused to known
attacks warning to the contrary, they left in all the fields covered
with dead bodies immediately.

These repeated victories all the needs and situation of the army grew obstacles, and increased
escaseses; in such a way that considered and D. Joseph's Valley in a critical and sensitive
situation, determined to make his way vary from route to Ink, where he was the rebel headquarters
and parts of war: and down for this achievement a valley situated between high mountains, found a mild
temperament, and such abundance food, which his troops succeeded in a few days to recover their
past losses, and continue gears comfortably: either with many difficulties to overcome, and
the narrow steps, such as by large and deep cuts that the enemy failed to defend, or less advantage
of these and countless other benefits that those providing rough land, which in many places, nature
has become inaccessible. Stubborn yet made resistance in some places and less severe rookeries, pursuing
daily, right and left the road, the gears of our military, particularly in the gorges, without
neglecting to take advantage of the darkness of the night to surround the camps and fatiguing, forcing
the troops to be continually under arms, feeling the fire of musketry and cannon, which easily transportable
and bet on all sides, being of small weight and small caliber.

Always tolerate the insults of the rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the army, arrived at the
outskirts of the village of Quiquijana, after suffering all the way some fire of his artillery
and musketry. Those neighbors had been the most tenacious in promotion and support of the sedition,
trusting no doubt in the advantageous position occupied; of So, recognized by the Commanding
General, D. José del Valle, has estimated that to reduce was necessary to spend many days, and that
would not get but at the expense of much blood, no Despite the incompetence of the rebels,
the espugnacion graduating from that position, can two months to stop an embattled army, and
many, if he had been occupied and defended enemy otherwise. But taken over all, decided to camp in
the vicinity, and from was then greeted with the fire of artillery and musketry, which caused
no effect, for be stationed too far. At dawn the next day, the priest's own people gave notice
that the rebels had abandoned the plan to meet the Army their principal Chief, José Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut before the bridge to delay the continuation of all
terms of the march to our troops and also prevent them pursue and pulverized the back. This
notice went into the army Quiquijana del Rey, where they had just left the women and men, who
by his old ailments or had not been able to follow others. All are welcomed to the temple asylum
in where, with many tears and signs of repentance, asking forgiveness of their lives and the
pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to the flames, as they deserved.
All were granted, and only experienced the harshness of punishment, Luis Poma, Inca, a cousin
of usurper Joseph Gabriel, Bernardo Zegarra and confidante, who paid with life on the gallows their
heinous crimes.

More accurate view of the provisions in the town of Quiquijana for
safety and grooming, our army marches continued without intermission
of days, and upon reaching the first camp presented the enemy occupying
the next mountain, whose absence had placed a cannon, and prevented
the summits many large and heavy stones, to which they give the name
of gauges, to throw and precipitous to offend our own in a very narrow
inevitable gorge, adjacent to a river flowing, who had to wade precisely.

To avoid the danger is named 100 Rifles light troops with all the Indian allies Chincheros Anta,
who was given the order to evict the rebels from three positions very advantageous that occupied
the crest of the mountain where they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken, and
were fortunate not only to achieve the intent, but also defeat it entirely, to view the rest
of the troops they expected the success of the event.

The following day it was reported by a deserter from the enemy, who had placed a battery at the
foot of another mountain, the road which was to immediately follow our army, and that 10.000
defended combatants. Immediately appointed a column is greatly enhanced, so that taking another
direction, went round the mountain and go up to dominate the rebels back, and Major General with
the rest of the army set up by the plain, but at half a league had
to turn to avoid another mountain, and down to a very wide valley
spaces, with more maneuvering could disengage their troops.

Then they spotted the loads of the rebel Indian Ink and Chincheros that had gone ahead without orders,
attacked them with greater boldness and audacity. Gentlemen adventurers and dragons Caravaillo
Lima, who had been the vanguard of the army, came to the defense, and this reason pawning was
on the other troops with the bulk of the rebels, and locked the action, they were defeated completely,
leaving the field a great number of bodies, excluding retired or injured countless prisoners
were taken, and even same José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru would have been had it not been freed by
the lijereza of one of his horses, which undertook a hasty flight, and so stunning, that forgetting
ford the river which was to cross to go to Ink, rushed to swim in the deepest, which was very
close to being submerged in water, and they end up in your life. This accident more and more
dismayed by the mind of the tyrant, and determined run away without going through ink, and before
implement this resolution, he wrote to his wife in the most pathetic and melancholy diciéndules:
come against us many very brave soldiers and we have no other choice to die. Were ignored in the
army these last particulars, without knowing how it started moving again, to monitor progress
with the resolution to stay the night in ink, but could not be verified, owing to the river
immediately stopped the passage to the troops for being so large, that despite the precautions and active
measures it took Commanding General, D. José del Valle, he could not help two men drowned.
In this maneuver, always slow and dangerous in the army, we used the rest of the day and the next
and was necessary to camp overnight in the nearby town of Cambapata, a distance of Ink a league,
and our troops the first nail tent stakes, broke the enemy fire with three guns, a battery which had
placed, but always with the ordinary failing to place them too far, making this the most useless
times its effect because bullets do not reach our stores, or other objects intended to offend.

At
2 o'clock the next day they sent out 150 Rifles troops litgh with the Indian subsidiary of
Anta and Chincheros, to occupy a mountain overlooking the plain, where the army was to pass just
to go to Cambapata, which people recognized, he felt he had surrounded the insurgents, with
a wall of bricks, topped and covered with thorns, to embarrass the march, as they delay the arrival
possible of troops in ink. At 4 o'clock in the morning, he sent the same General placed a
battery five guns in a position dominated by the enemies whose well directed fire, was the
advantage that desert in less than an hour, and followed shortly afterwards, Ink 30 residents, who
said that people have been absent from the family of Joseph Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, taking the
silver coin, engraved, jewelry and other valuable effects, they had seized since the beginning
of the uprising.

With this new beat immediately sent General stores, to transport all the army to the town of Tinta,
where he found the portrait of the slope of the main rebel gallows, without finding out the
author of that action. It had certainly felt as appropriate, to celebrate sério act to uphold the
legitimate name of our August Sovereign and then sent many detachments in different directions,
with orders more effective, to seek terms for all the capture of fugitives to the prevention
of the first care was to go to close the passage to the Andes in the province of Carabaya order that
the rebel and his family had no insurance seekers who boasted on a quest those impenetrable rough
or confused among the savage Indians.

There followed the attempt by the rebels, rather Langui took the road,
and as he had made public their latest defeat, dare to chase D. Ventura
Lard, together with other residents of that jurisdiction, which has
arrested the same José Gabriel, his wife Micaela Bastidas, and to
two sons, Hipolito and Fernando, who delivered for safe driving and
custody to one of the detachments who had been following his reach,
and were taken to field Spanish, where that same day had already suffered
the penalty of hanging 67 rebels, who were arrested in that neighborhood,
whose heads were hung in public places, as a warning of the other
rebels, whom they took eight guns of different calibers, being the
greater of four, 20 rifles and shotguns, two pairs of pistols, four
pounds of cannon balls and rifle, as many of gunpowder, 30 spears,
and much of the theft and looting that had been done.

Prisoners were also, as a result of these favorable and prosperous events, Antonio Bastidas,
brother of Joseph Gabriel, whom he had appointed Captain General; Cecilia Tupac-Amaru, his half
sister, his cousin, Patrick Noguera, Colonel Jose Mamani; the commanders, the artillery, Ramon
Ponce, Diego Ponce Diego Verdejo, a relative of the tyrant; Castelo Andres Felipe Mendez, Puma
Isidro, Mariano Castillo, Sergeant Major; Diego Ortigosa, Advisor: Manuel Gallegos, feather, Melchor
Arteaga earned Butler, Blas Quiñones, Butler more, Tomasa Tito, chieftain of harassment; José
Venel, confident, Estevan Vaca, founder of artillery; Francisco Torres principal commissioner, Luke
Colquhoun, Commissioner and Mayor, four captains, two lieutenants, soldiers black and fleeing
individuals, including Antonio Oblitas, D. Slave Antonio Arriaga,
and the same one that was her tormentor in Ink.

After the main rebel arrested, his wife, children and most of their leaders main, it seems ought
to expect a favorable crisis, which restored at its former quietude altered the mood of the natives,
but far from it, began to be assured and lighter new rebellion, because, having achieved the
leak Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, half-brother of Joseph Gabriel, Mariano Tupac-Amaru, his son,
Andres Noguera, and Miguel Bastidas his nephews, having followed a different route than the others,
managed to free themselves happily and take up residence in the province of Azangaro, blindly
continued his devotion with the surrounding of Peace, and the Collao, forming the party to hold
considerable their ideas. In this attempt arranged with the most active and effective measures,
gather all its partial wicked, and collect thousands of weapons and ammunition, to seize the prisoners,
while they were driven to the city of Cuzco, where he had given refer the Commanding General,
D. José del Valle, to suffer the punishment they deserved for their grave crimes.
 You and your brother can go home, and no one will ever know where you were; no more
than if you'd gone to the moon.'

Jim looked at the brown colt that just came trotting up as dad finished speaking--trotting
up with his head high and his tail stuck out like a circus horse. If he'd been the devil in
a horsehide he couldn't have chosen a better moment. Then his eyes began to glitter.

We all three looked at each other. No one spoke. The colt stopped, turned, and galloped back
to his mates like a red flyer with the dogs close behind him.

It was not long. We all began to speak at once. But in that time the die was cast, the stakes
were down, and in the pool were three men's lives.

'I don't care whether we go back or not,' says Jim; 'I'll do either way that Dick likes. But
that colt I must have.'

'I never intended to go back,' I said. 'But we're three d----d fools all the same--father and
sons. It'll be the dearest horse you ever bought, Jim, old man, and so I tell you.'

'Well, I suppose it's settled now,' says father; 'so let's have no more chat. We're like a
pack of old women, blessed if we ain't.'

After that we got on more sociably. Father took us all over the place, and a splendid paddock
it was--walled all round but where we had come in, and a narrow gash in the far side that not
one man in a thousand could ever hit on, except he was put up to it; a wild country for miles
when you did get out--all scrub and rock, that few people ever had call to ride over. There
was splendid grass everywhere, water, and shelter. It was warmer, too, than the country above,
as you could see by the coats of the cattle and horses.

'If it had only been honestly come by,' Jim said, 'what a jolly place it would have been!'

Towards the north end of the paddock was a narrow gully with great sandstone walls all round,
and where it narrowed the first discoverers had built a stockyard, partly with dry stone walls
and partly with logs and rails.

There was no trouble in getting the cattle or horses into this, and there were all kinds of
narrow yards and pens for branding the stock if they were clearskins, and altering or 'faking'
the brands if they were plain. This led into another yard, which opened into the narrowest
part of the gully. Once in this, like the one they came down, and the cattle or horses had
no chance but to walk slowly up, one behind the other, till they got on the tableland above.
Here, of course, every kind of work that can be done to help disguise cattle was done. Ear-marks
were cut out and altered in shape, or else the whole ear was cropped off; every letter in the
alphabet was altered by means of straight bars or half-circles, figures, crosses, everything
you could think of.

'Mr. Starlight is an edicated man,' said father. 'This is all his notion; and many a man has
looked at his own beast, with the ears altered and the brand faked, and never dreamed he ever
owned it. He's a great card is Starlight. It's a pity he ever took to this kind of life.'

Father said this with a kind of real sorrow that made me look at him to see if the grog had
got into his head; just as if his life, mine, and Jim's didn't matter a straw compared to this
man's, whoever he was, that had had so many better chances than we had and had chucked 'em
all away.

But it's a strange thing that I don't think there's any place in the world where men feel a
more real out-and-out respect for a gentleman than in Australia. Everybody's supposed to be
free and equal now; of course, they couldn't be in the convict days. But somehow a man that's
born and bred a gentleman will always be different from other men to the end of the world.
What's the most surprising part of it is that men like father, who have hated the breed and
suffered by them, too, can't help having a curious liking and admiration for them. They'll
follow them like dogs, fight for them, shed their blood, and die for them; must be some sort
of a natural feeling. Whatever it is, it's there safe enough, and nothing can knock it out
of nine-tenths of all the men and women you meet. I began to be uneasy to see this wonderful
mate of father's, who was so many things at once--a cattle-stealer, a bush-ranger, and a gentleman.

Chapter 6

After we'd fairly settled to stay, father began to be more pleasant than he'd ever been before.
We were pretty likely, he said, to have a visit from Starlight and the half-caste in a day
or two, if we'd like to wait. He was to meet him at the Hollow on purpose to help him out with
the mob of fat bullocks we had looked at. 

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from
head to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong or
an inch. iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that I
can not see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he said
the physical, and also measure your giant companion. Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His
Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head was higher than the clouds, and our
philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres Quevedo been appointed by name, but
I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the ladies, and then by a series of triangles,
connected to each other, guessing that the person was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty
thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent magnitude.
O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely small costs no
more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other creatures smaller
than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence that of those huge animals I've seen in
the sky, and with one foot would cover the entire globe where I am
now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved much
more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian
same with respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared
with other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and
said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.
O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing
their art and power no doubt that your globe PLEASURE purest happy,
as having so little substance and looking all spirit, you ought to
use your life in love and think that is true life of the spirits.
In part I have seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his mansion.


'Let's go over to the other side,' says father; 'they're coming down the gully now. It's a
terrible steep, rough track, worse than the other. If Starlight's hurt bad he'll never ride
down. But he has the pluck of the devil, sure enough.'

We rode over to the other side, where there was a kind of gully that came in, something like
the one we came in by, but rougher, and full of gibbers (boulders). There was a path, but it
looked as if cattle could never be driven or forced up it. We found afterwards that they had
an old pack bullock that they'd trained to walk up this, and down, too, when they wanted him,
and the other cattle followed in his track, as cattle will.

Father showed us a sort of cave by the side of the track, where one man, with a couple of guns
and a pistol or two, could have shot down a small regiment as they came down one at a time.

We stayed in there by the track, and after about half-an-hour we heard the two horses coming
down slowly, step by step, kicking the stones down before them. Then we could hear a man groaning,
as if he couldn't bear the pain, and partly as if he was trying to smother it. 

Salvatierra, on hearing the name of the farm, recalled his comrade of the tavern the Rook, that
patient who craved his presence as the best remedy. He had not seen since the day the storm forced
him to flee to Matanzuela, but reminded him many times, proposing repeat his visit next week. Prolong
one of his long walks, reaching hut where he hoped that as a consolation.

Fermín spoke about the recent love affair with the Marquesa Luis. Finally, the friendship had
led to a term, the two seemed to want to avoid. She was no longer with the rough pig farmer.
Throw back to the estate, he said, and boasted shamelessly of new relationships, living at
home, Dupont and giving two to noisy parties. His love seemed bland and monotonous, if not flavored
with drunkenness and scandals to disturb the quiet of the city hypocritical.

- There are two crazy people together - continued Fermín .-- Any day they'll fight, leaving
one their blood pouring sprees, but meanwhile, think happy and exhibit their happiness with a
admirable shamelessness. I think what's most fun is the indignation of Don Pablo and your
family.

Montenegro told the latest adventures of these lovers, which alarmed the city. Jerez they felt close
to her happiness and ran the farms and immediate population, reaching
to Cadiz, followed by a procession of singers and thugs who always
accompanied Louis Dupont.

They ran up, and we lifted him off after undoing some straps and a rope. He was tied on (that
was what the half-caste was waiting for at the top of the gully). When we laid him down his
head fell back, and he looked as much like a corpse as if he had been dead a day.

Then we saw he had been wounded. There was blood on his shirt, and the upper part of his arm
was bandaged.

'It's too late, father,' said I; 'he's a dead man. What pluck he must have had to ride down there!'

'He's worth two dead 'uns yet,' said father, who had his hand on his pulse. 'Hold his head
up one of you while I go for the brandy. How did he get hit, Warrigal?'

'That----Sergeant Goring,' said the boy, a slight, active-looking chap, about sixteen, that
looked as if he could jump into a gum tree and back again, and I believe he could. 'Sergeant
Goring, he very near grab us at Dilligah. We got a lot of old Jobson's cattle when he came
on us. He jump off his horse when he see he couldn't catch us, and very near drop Starlight.
My word, he very nearly fall off--just like that' (here he imitated a man reeling in his saddle);
'but the old horse stop steady with him, my word, till he come to. Then the sergeant fire at
him again; hit him in the shoulder with his pistol. Then Starlight come to his senses, and
we clear. My word, he couldn't see the way the old horse went. Ha, ha!'--here the young devil
laughed till the trees and rocks rang again. 'Gallop different ways, too, and met at the old
needle-rock. But they was miles away then.'

Before the wild boy had come to the end of his story the wounded man had proved that it was
only a dead faint, as the women call it, not the real thing. And after he had tasted a pannikin
full of brandy and water, which father brought him, he sat up and looked like a living man
once more.

'Better have a look at my shoulder,' he said. 'That----fellow shot like a prize-winner at Wimbledon.
I've had a squeak for it.'

'Puts me in mind of our old poaching rows,' said father, while he carefully cut the shirt off,
that was stiffened with blood and showed where the bullet had passed through the muscle, narrowly
missing the bone of the joint. We washed it, and relieved the wounded man by discovering that
the other bullet had only been spent, after striking a tree most like, when it had knocked
the wind out of him and nearly unhorsed him, as Warrigal said.

'Fill my pipe, one of you. Who the devil are these lads? Yours, I suppose, Marston, or you
wouldn't be fool enough to bring them here. Why didn't you leave them at home with their mother?
Don't you think you and I and this devil's limb enough for this precious trade of ours?'

'They'll take their luck as it comes, like others,' growled father; 'what's good enough for
me isn't too bad for them. We want another hand or two to work things right.'

'Oh! we do, do we?' said the stranger, fixing his eyes on father as if he was going to burn
a hole in him with a burning-glass; 'but if I'd a brace of fine boys like those of my own I'd
hang myself before I'd drag them into the pit after myself.'

'That's all very fine,' said father, looking very dark and dangerous. 'Is Mr. Starlight going
to turn parson? You'll be just in time, for we'll all be shopped if you run against the police
like this, and next thing to lay them on to the Hollow by making for it when you're too weak
to ride.'

'What would you have me do? Pull up and hold up my hands? There was nowhere else to go; and
that new sergeant rode devilish well, I can tell you, with a big chestnut well-bred horse,
that gave old Rainbow here all he knew to lose him. Now, once for all, no more of that, Marston,
and mind your own business. 

ANOTHER important consequences.

[89.] I'll finally get to the final result, remarkable for the transcendental, and it seems worthy
of careful consideration by those who are marching against their
physical studies and metaphysical.

Here it is.

The existence of universal gravitation, is apparent.

Proof. Universal gravitation is a law of nature that some bodies are directed towards others (as
we ignore now). This address is metaphysically necessary assuming
that where there is no body away.

Because in this case, there can be two separate bodies: the law of contiguity, is a metaphysical
necessity, and therefore continuing the approach of bodies to others, is a perennial obedience to this
need.

The speed of the approach is on account of the speed with which separates the middle. The speed
limit of this movement is the relationship of space, with an indivisible instant: we can imagine
if God suddenly overwhelmed with the intermediate body.

As solid masses we roll over our heads, they would be submerged if so in a fluid, if its nature, lends
much to change position, it appears that The stars have to be subject
to the law of approximation, because the interval that separates constantly
removed in several directions.

If we were to assume entirely because this fluid still, Cesaria metaphysical necessity of the
approach.

[90.] This theory seems to lead to explain the mechanism of the universe
by simple laws of geometry, by removing what is called hidden qualities
first, and then strength.

While there is no difficulty in explaining metaphysical ideas and
the very fact of geometric gravitation, since it means only the tendency
to approach the bodies, the there, and very large, in determining
this order of ideas the conditions to which it is subjected gravitation.

[91.]

If the movement of approximation depend only on the average, to mixed media would follow inequality
of motion. And how is it calculated, how to graduate this inequality, in non- subject to our observation?

[92.]
Over this difficulty, there is another even more serious, namely, that the bodies would move in
a medium, would have no fixed addresses, but these vary with the variety the direction of the
medium.

If the gravitation of the body A to body B, depends only motion with his medium is removed,
the gravitation will not be at line AB, but follow the undulations described by the media. What
is against experience.

[93.] From these considerations, that even when born naturally gravitation the same position of
the bodies, this need not produce the order, if the results it were
not subjected to certain laws.

And so the phenomena of nature, but somehow rooted in a need, assuming the existence and position
of bodies, would of itself as contingent on the application and development of that need.

[94.]
Deepening but this matter is found that the tendency to approximate, even alleged necessary, would not
be enough to generate the movement, nor to keep him. In Indeed, whenever a body is withdrawn,
it would be necessary for another to follow him to not interrupt contiguity, but as being all
full, there would be no reason for any body depart from the other, there would not cause any
movement. It can be inferred that geometrical ideas are not sufficient to explain the origin
of the movement, but it is necessary find its cause elsewhere. If contiguity is a metaphysical
necessity, presume existence of bodies, will continue to move the body in a sense to anyone
also have to move the adjacent, B, C, but if we assume that the contiguity already exists there
is no reason why the A begins to move, then there is also no reason
to no movement in the B, C.

At any instant, though of course the
movement, or the full contiguity exist; since the state of the matter
is that this condition never fails as metaphysically necessary; then
there will never be razen for the movement to continue, because in
every moment imaginable no reason to continue.

Body movement to drag the body B, this C, and so on. If the movement of the body A has no other
origin than the need of continuing with B, nor that of C may have another origin, but their contiguity
with B; if the movement is done only to not interrupt, it follows that it exists as long as absolutely
necessary, there is no reason for the movement begins, started or last.

[95.] The laws of nature can not therefore be explained by geometric and metaphysical ideas,
even assuming that the approach is an intrinsic need bodies. In any Of course it is necessary
to look beyond the material that you print a higher cause, rectify and keep moving.

CHAPTER XV.

ILLUSION OF FIXED POINTS IN SPACE.

[96.] No space being anything other than the extension of the body
itself, and therefore not existing space where there are no bodies,
it follows that this extension we think differently of them, with
fixed dimensions to fixed points, still itself, and all receptacle
that moves, is a pure illusion, to which nothing corresponds in reality.

To

clarify this doctrine, and drop at the same time some difficulties
against it offered, it is necessary to analyze the idea of ​​fixity
that we have with respect to space.

As in the world we still have some points with respect to which we conceive directions, is
engendered in our minds the idea of ​​fixity of these points, and relationship to them, and because
of them, we imagine the fixity, immobility, as one of the properties which distinguish the
ideal receptacle surnamed space.

The four cardinal points the world, east, west, north and south, have had to naturally begin producing
this idea of ​​fixity. However it will be difficult to show that there is no fixity, and that
the idea it is a pure illusion.

[97.] Let us begin by destroying the fixity of East and West. First, assuming to land a diurnal motion
of rotation about its axis as it currently represent astronomers and points east and west, far
from fixed, constantly changing for all places on earth. So assuming an observer at A, point of
land, the east is the point B, and C. West Point If the earth rotates on its axis, the east
and west of the observer correspond successively to the m, n, p,
q, etc., in the confines we imagine as the sky.

Then, assuming the fixed roof, the east and the West does not mean anything fixed.

If denied the motion of rotation of the earth, the appearance would be the same as if in fact
the rotation exist, and therefore can never say more, but the fixity is an appearance. Furthermore,
if the earth and sky quietly in rotation, yet is more impossible to pinpoint the fixed points of
east and west, because in that case, the same items that were referring to heaven, would be
in constant motion.

I repeat: all these are mere appearances, the man who knows nothing about the sphericity of
earth, and imagine it as a plane, if you walk from west to east, believe that the two points
remain stationary, however, that change ceaselessly imagines that leaves the back always to
the place from which it came, however, that in having travel the circumference of the earth, will
meet again on it.

[98.] The north and south seem to offer more difficulty on account of its fixity as for us;
but neither will be difficult to state that there is nothing absolute in that fixity, and
that the most one can say is that there is a seeming fixity. N and S are the north and south
poles.

If we imagine rotating at the same time the earth and the sky from south to north, it is clear that
the fixity NS points will not exist, and yet the observer to believe that everything remains
fixed because the skins will look quite the same.

To an observer walking towards a center of Ecuador, the continually rising on the horizon for
another that stays in one place, the pole is still.

Even for a spot of land, change the height of the pole, the angle
variation formed by the plane of the ecliptic to the plane of Ecuador;
variation that according to some, is 48 "per century, and according
to others, 0", 521 per year, giving 52, 1 "per century.

[99.] It follows from these observations that in the situation of
bodies there is nothing absolute, everything is relative, that a body
can exist alone, but then there is the situation, because it is a
purely relative concept, and no relationship when there is no point
of comparison; absolutely speaking, there is no up or down, and imagine
that even if these points as fixed, that imagination is but the comparison
we make between two points, being below that which gravitate towards,
and above, the opposite, as seen in the antipodes, which call down,
what we up and up, which we down.

[100.] Without points at which the direction relates, it is impossible to address. Then address
the existence of bodies, things are purely ideal, then a horn only, not the would have, out
of its own extension.

[101.] Against this explanation is a difficulty at first sight very
serious, but actually worth very little.

If there is one body, "may God give you moving? Deny it, seems a limitation of the omnipotence
grant, is to destroy all that is said against other space bodies.

This difficulty derives its apparent severity of a confusion of ideas, understood no effect
While the state of the art. To release me ask to whom the proposed: Does the movement that
it is intrinsically impossible, or not. If so, there's no harm in saying God can not do, because
that omnipotence does not extend to things contradictory if I say
it's not impossible, so we go to questions about the nature of space,
and must consider whether the reasons for this failure has been tested,
are true or not.

Issues relating to the omnipotence, not of this place, its resolution is a simple corollary
of the main resolution. If it proves impossible, to say that not may the almighty, is not limiting,
and is not limited when it says it can not make a triangle is a circle. If the impossibility
is not shown, then, does not enter for all the question of omnipotence.

[102.] The argument based on the existence of vacuum, nor destroy the established doctrine. Physicists
generally recognized, and he is supposed necessary to explain the movement, condensation,
rarefaction, and other phenomena of nature. This will answer the following.

1. º Descartes and Leibnitz, are votes on both experimental physics
transcendental and yet did not admit empty.

2. º The observation can not enter in any part of the existence of
vacuum, and because the spread, take up space so tiny that do not
reach any instrument, or because observation can only be exercised
about what affects our senses, and to this perhaps Some bodies do
not reach their excessive thinness.

3. No. Nothing can solve some of the amendments intimate matter, the movement and the condensation
and rarefaction, without knowing the elements of which it is composed.

4.

No. Just as not well understood and the infinite divisibility, or the composition of a large
with unextended points, not surprisingly, does not understand the
phenomena that appear inconsistent with the negation of the void.

5. º The existence of the void is a metaphysical question, which is
outside the regions of experience, and therefore does not affect the
system of the sciences of observation.

[103.] Using the idea of ​​space include the extension in abstract or generalized reconcile
all that it appears to us necessary, absolute, infinite, with its objective reality. This is
actually the extension of things, the need, infinity, are not the things themselves but in the abstract
idea. The objects themselves are tight to the sphere of reality, and therefore the limitation, to
the contingency objectivity understand the abstract idea of ​​what exists and what is possible,
and therefore has no limits nor is it subject to any contingency.

CHAPTER XVI.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPINION OF KANT.

[104.] We have seen that the extension seen in us, leaving the boundaries of sensations, is a
true idea is based on some feelings, and is at the same time a pure idea. As regards the feeling
is like the foundation of our faculties sensitive, as idea, is the
root of the geometry.

This distinction is important, and we will then be used to assess the true value the opinion of
Kant on space.

[105.] More or less, all our feelings are linked with the extension, rather than considering the feeling
a priori, independently of any habit, and completely isolated, it appears that only those of sight
and touch, are necessarily linked with an extended object. A living without any of these two
senses, it seems you should be deprived of receiving impressions ear, and smell, perhaps not the
taste, because if it is true that feelings palate are always attached
the touch, as hard, soft, warm, cold etc. ETC. is also true that these
feelings are entirely different from that of taste, and we have no
no reason to ensure that they can not be separated.

[106.] The extension, taken us on your intuition or it may be regarded as a necessary condition of
our sensory faculties, Kant saw this truth, but the exaggerated when he denies the space an
objective reality, asserting that it is merely a subjective condition a priori so that they
received the impressions: the form of phenomena, that is, appearances, but nothing in reality.
I said that space, as distinct from bodies, is nothing but the object of the idea of ​​space
is the same extension of the body; or rather, this extension is the
foundation from which we get the general idea of ​​space, and she
his turn, is also included in the general idea.

[107.] Say as Kant, that space is the form in which the phenomena before us, and that is a subjective
condition necessary for the perception of them is tantamount to saying that phenomena, presenting
as extensive, require that the spirit is able to perceive extension,
what is very true, but nothing explains the nature of the idea of
space or another, either in its object. The old place hadn't looked
so smart for many a day.

When we came in at night old mother used to look that pleased and happy we couldn't help feeling
better in our hearts. Aileen used to read something out of the paper that she thought might
amuse us. I could read pretty fair, and so could Jim; but we were both lazy at it, and after
working pretty hard all day didn't so much care about spelling out the long words in the farming
news or the stories they put in. All the same, it would have paid us better if we'd read a
little more and put the 'bullocking' on one side, at odd times. A man can learn as much out
of a book or a paper sometimes in an hour as will save his work for a week, or put him up to
working to better purpose. I can see that now--too late, and more's the pity.

Anyhow, Aileen could read pretty near as fast as any one I ever saw, and she used to reel it
out for us, as we sat smoking over the fire, in a way that kept us jolly and laughing till
it was nearly turning-in time. Now and then George Storefield would come and stay an hour or
two. He could read well; nearly as well as she could. Then he had always something to show
her that she'd been asking about. His place was eight miles off, but he'd always get his horse
and go home, whatever the night was like.

'I must be at my work in the morning,' he'd say; 'it's more than half a day gone if you lose
that, and I've no half-days to spare, or quarter-days either.'

    .   .   .   .   .

So we all got on first-rate, and anybody would have thought that there wasn't a more steady-going,
hard-working, happy family in the colony. No more there wasn't, while it lasted. After all,
what is there that's half as good as being all right and square, working hard for the food
you eat, and the sleep you enjoy, able to look all the world in the face, and afraid of nothing
and nobody!

We were so quiet and comfortable till the winter was over and the spring coming on, till about
September, that I almost began to believe we'd never done anything in our lives we could be
made to suffer for. All definitions are discordant and is that
science begins with not knowing how to define, determine and declare the object of science itself.
Neither is more advanced in the definition of other scientific words, such as value, price, capital,
industry and change, which is not strange because it still ignored it is wealth, which is the
key word or idea, necessarily has to ignore or is it disagree about the rest.

Malthus said: "After so many years of research and many volumes of findings, writers could not be understood
until now about what constitutes wealth, and while that writers who are employed in this business
are better understood, no conclusions may be taken as a maximum to be followed. "

Dedúcese of here, Malthus conviction and authority that we should not follow the maximum or Ignoring
one of few economists who preceded him in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
and in the first third of this. All these economists do not know what they said, according to Malthus;
and that among them are Smith, Say, Storch, Ricardo, Gioja, Mac-Culloch and other eminences. They
have not progressed further then other wise to give these definitions. Stuart Mill withdraws to
define what is wealth, and says that if only we understand it in practice, thereby continues.
Bastiat is entangled in harmony with other economists rivals, and is prove you are ignorant
or fools who do not know what is the value.

Indeed, one of these economists attempt to demonstrate that the value of a thing is overcome
the obstacles to produce, which it follows that, the easier it becomes production, reducing the
obstacles, things have less value, so that, while more things there, we will be poorer. It,
therefore, create barriers to production, so that, finding it hard to produce, also worth a
lot of things produced, and we rich. Seems impossible that such ideas are sustained and even
to be challenged seriously. Meanwhile, Bastiat, which is reasonable at this point, then the change
means, not as it is, but as it should be, and this change model, ideal and fantastic lift an entire
building scientist who brings love to our young economists. On the other hand, no doubt should
always be superfluous for the necessary, and win, therefore, all
changing. The oats look better.'

'Now I think of it,' put in Jim, 'Dick Dawson came in from outside, and he said things are
shocking bad; all the frontage bare already, and the water drying up.'

'It's always the way,' I said, bitter-like. 'As soon as a poor man's got a chance of a decent
crop, the season turns against him or prices go down, so that he never gets a chance.'

'It's as bad for the rich man, isn't it?' said George. 'It's God's will, and we can't make
or mend things by complaining.'

'I don't know so much about that,' I said sullenly. 'But it's not as bad for the rich man. A philosopher
German would say the money is put into the self in an absolute manner. More fool is thus tormented, because
they want one for the money, which tormented because they want one because it is clean, well-bred,
elegant, educated etc., all qualities that are purchased at artificially same as money, that
money should be more or less quantity. Maybe I better not the last porter in Madrid, sometimes
physical, sometimes intellectual, sometimes morally considered and yet, assuming single, any beautiful
lady might have even the caprice of love Me, not censor anyone, but if the porter fall in love, everyone
have this passion for extravagance or folly.


'But why should we pay? God Almighty, I suppose, made the land and the people too, one to live
on the other. Why should we pay for what is our own? I believe in getting my share somehow.'

'That's a sort of argument that doesn't come out right,' said George. 'How would you like another
man to come and want to halve the farm with you?'

'I shouldn't mind; I should go halves with some one else who had a bigger one,' I said. 'More
money too, more horses, more sheep, a bigger house! Why should he have it and not me?'

'That's a lazy man's argument, and--well, not an honest man's,' said George, getting up and
putting on his cabbage-tree. 'I can't sit and hear you talk such rot. Nobody can work better
than you and Jim, when you like. I wonder you don't leave such talk to fellows like Frowser,
that's always spouting at the Shearers' Arms.'

'Nonsense or not, if a dry season comes and knocks all our work over, I shall help myself to
some one's stuff that has more than he knows what to do with.'

'Why can't we all go shearing, and make as much as will keep us for six months?' said George.
'I don't know what we'd do without the squatters.'

'Nor I either; more ways than one; but Jim and I are going shearing next week. So perhaps there
won't be any need for "duffing" after all.'

'Oh, Dick!' said Aileen, 'I can't bear to hear you make a joke of that kind of thing. Don't
we all know what it leads to! Wouldn't it be better to live on dry bread and be honest than
to be full of money and never know the day when you'd be dragged to gaol?'

'I've heard all that before; but ain't there lots of people that have made their money by all
sorts of villainy, that look as well as the best, and never see a gaol?'

'They're always caught some day,' says poor Aileen, sobbing, 'and what a dreadful life of anxiety
they must lead!'

'Not at all,' I said. 'Look at Lucksly, Squeezer, and Frying-pan Jack. Everybody knows how
they got their stock and their money. See how they live. They've got stations, and public-house
and town property, and they get richer every year. I don't think it pays to be too honest in
a dry country.'

'You're a naughty boy, Dick; isn't he, Jim?' she said, smiling through her tears. 'But he doesn't
mean half what he says, does he?'

'Not he,' says Jim; 'and very likely we'll have lots of rain after all.'

Chapter 8

The 'big squatter', as he was called on our side of the country, was Mr. Falkland. He was an
Englishman that had come young to the colony, and worked his way up by degrees. He had had
no money when he first came, people said; indeed, he often said so himself. He was not proud,
at any rate in that way, for he was not above telling a young fellow that he should never be
downhearted because he hadn't a coat to his back or a shilling in his pocket, because he, Herbert
Falkland, had known what it was to be without either. 'This was the best country in the whole
world,' he used to say, 'for a gentleman who was poor or a working man.' The first sort could
always make an independence if they were moderately strong, liked work, and did not drink.
There were very few countries where idle, unsteady people got rich. 'As for the poor man, he
was the real rich man in Australia; high wages, cheap food, lodging, clothing, travelling.
What more did he want? He could save money, live happily, and die rich, if he wasn't a fool
or a rogue. Unfortunately, these last were highly popular professions; and many people, high
and low, belonged to them here--and everywhere else.'

We were all well up in this kind of talk, because for the last two or three years, since we
had begun to shear pretty well, we had always shorn at his shed. He was one of those gentlemen--and
he was a gentleman, if ever there was one--that takes a deal of notice of his working hands,
particularly if they were young. Jim he took a great fancy to the first moment he saw him.
He didn't care so much about me.

'You're a sulky young dog, Richard Marston,' he used to say. 'I'm not sure that you'll come
to any good; and though I don't like to say all I hear about your father before you, I'm afraid
he doesn't teach you anything worth knowing. Then up
with the touch of verifying that a differentiation between limb movement and the object, not
born of mere sensation.

[88.] In this part because the touch is not in sight ahead, we examine whether this alone is able
to make us distinguish between eye movement and the object. We have already noted a single
feeling with respect to a single object, is not enough, but it is
not difficult demonstrate that the comparison of various sensations
we get this result.

Located one eye at a point A, looking at the object B, it is displayed at the bottom of the
visual field and projected on a plane. For clarity, imagine that the object B is a column in
the middle of a large living room, and that point A is an angle in the same part. The column
will seen as a dot printed on the opposite wall. If the eye moved, the column be presented
at another point, so that if we suppose that the eye turns around column, this will go on presenting
all points of all walls the classroom. This sequence of events can be verified in the same way,
assuming the column mobile and fixed eye: it is evident that if an observer situated in the center
column goes round, that, without the observer moves, it will be painted on every wall. Then
a visual sensation alone with regard to a single object, they could
not discern whether that moves the object or the eye.

But we add the simultaneous vision of other objects, and will not be difficult to discover how this
discernment is generated. Suppose that the eye at the same time you see the column, see other bodies
interposed between it and the walls, such as large chandeliers, lamps or too other columns. Let's
see what happens with the movement of the eye: the way the spine is projected at a different
point on the wall, it changes the position of all other objects, the other columns, chandeliers, lamps,
everything is projected onto different points: there is a change total position in all objects.
Let's see what happens without eye movement, moving single column, but it alters nothing: the
other objects are still designed in the same points.

Then the naked eye presents two orders of phenomena fully motion
different.

1. No one in which all objects move in position.

2. No one in which only the dumb one.

These two kinds of phenomena could not but be noticed, and it is clear
that with the help of reflection, excited and enlightened by the repetition
of the phenomena, it would infer when there is a total and constant
alteration of all objects, these are not that move but the eye, and
that on the contrary, if the change of position is checked only in
one or some objects, others staying in the same position, which moves
not the eye, but the objects that make different.

When everything is altered in around us, infer that the eye is what moves and when one or few
objects, follow that move them and not the eye. And although there is no only this is what would
happen but also what happens, because the ideas born of touch are
inherently limited and so is not it possible that that gives rise
to the movements of objects distant, which can not be touched.

[89.] I have shown that the alleged superiority of touch is unfounded; that is not true that the opinion
indicates the basis of our knowledge regarding to external objects, making it the cornerstone
of certain sensations transmitted by the other senses. Without it we can gain the security of
the existence of bodies; without it we form the idea of ​​surface and volume, without the knowledge
of the movement, without Reaching out to tell when this movement belongs to the object or the
body receiving printing. The theory of the feelings that I have said, the results deduced relations
of dependence or independence of the phenomena with each other and
with our will, all of it applies itself to the sight to the touch.

[90.] Summarizing the doctrines explained here is the following:

1. º distinguish sleep from waking, even apart from the objectivity
of the senses.

2. º distinguish two kinds of phenomena of internal and external sensation,
to dispense of objectivity.

3. º The way we make sure the existence of bodies.

4. º The feeling on the outside do not have similar item to what we represent, except the extension
and movement.

5. No Touch does not enjoy the privilege of being the touchstone of certainty.

6. No. All that we know through the senses is reduced to that there are external things, extensive,
subject to necessary laws, and causing the effects we called sensations.

CHAPTER XVI.

CAN THE OTHER SENSES.

[91.] La-Mennais has written: "Who says that a sixth sense does not disrupt the agreement of others?
What could melt the negative? Supongámonos different senses of that nature has given us, our
feelings and ideas "would not be different too?

Perhaps, to spoil all our science, suffice a slight modification in our bodies. Maybe there
are things organized so that their feelings being in opposition to the ours is true for us what
is wrong for them, and vice-versa. Because finally, although there is what is found necessary relation
between our sensations and reality of things? And even if there, what would make us know our
senses? "(Test on indifference. Tom. 2. chap. 13).

These words contain several extremely serious, worthy to be examined
carefully.

[92.] Is there an intrinsic inability to oppose a different organization than we possess, and
therefore, gender and order to a totally different sensations we experience? It seems not, and if this
impossibility is, man does not know.

Whatever the opinion is adopted regarding the manner in which external objects act on the soul through
the body's organs, not any necessary relation or even analogy between the object and the effect that
we produce.

A body surface receives the rays of the fluid we call light, those reflecting come to stop at
the retina, ie to another surface, which is in communication with the brain: So far so good,
everything is understood, there is a fluid that moves, ranging from a surface to another, and
that can cause this or that purely physical effect on the brain matter, but What relationship
is there between this and the impression of a completely different
order, called see? the impression that neither is the fluid, or movement,
but an affection that is closely conscious being living, thinking,
self?

If instead the mechanism of light fluid, we assume a completely different, for example the air
that vibrates and is about to hit the eardrum, what is essential reason for not producing a sensation
similar to that of sight? Must confess that critical reason can not be point to no. Who had
no idea of ​​the present organization, it would seem as incomprehensible one as the other.

[93.] He said hearing and sight, is applicable to the other senses: in all there is a body corporeal,
affected by a body: we see surfaces, or the one presented before
the other, or overlapping, we see movements of this or that class,
but how to save the vast distance of these physical phenomena is the
phenomenon of sensation?

For my part I find middle: this is a point where human intelligence is stopped, all appearances
indicate no more relationship between these two kinds of phenomena that set free by the will
of the Creator, if there is any necessary connection, this need is for man a secret. Consider
the tissues that receive the impression of objects, the mass that form the nervous system
through the sensation, and see what is the relationship between physical phenomena of this subject,
and an admirable set of sensible phenomena; not found.

[94.] Upload the difficulty point when one considers that the organs, even preserved without
injury any, cease to produce sensations from the moment they are cut off from the mass brain,
or that is having some disorder, and so that the vision takes place in the cavity the skull, in the
midst of the most complete darkness, and all the wonderful magic
of sensations can be presented to our mind the magnificent spectacle
of the universe, reaching deep into our souls the wonders of music
with us in exquisite taste dishes in delicate aromas, all this takes
place through the brain matter, ie a white material, apparently report
and rude, and that no one could suspect that was spent in so noble.

[95.] What reason is there to hit the nerve in communication with the mass, we to experience
the sensation we call seeing, and affected the nerve B, which we call hearing, and so the other
senses?

The reason will be, but we do not know, and probably not another that the free will of the Creator.
With this philosophy confesses its weakness, it is true; but would not it also expresses its scope,
seeing a phenomenon to another is immense distance, and can not be among them but the point of communication
established by the same hand of the Almighty? When there are secondary causes, the merit of
philosophy is to bring them; but when they do not exist, this merit is estimated to rise to the first.
A I do not know is sometimes more sublime for human reason, impotent efforts intemperate pride,
the understanding can also be high understanding their ignorance, because it is high understanding
including higher truths, and sometimes ignorance is also a really very high.

[96.] It is possible because a new meaning, or at least not in its existence found no impossibility.
If the deaf who have no idea of ​​the sounds, the blind do not know what they are colors, would
proceed very wrong to deny the possibility of feeling that is lacking; would run no more success
with us saying that it is not possible order of sensations different from what we have.

If we look to the light of reason the current system of sensations, not discovered any essential
dependence between them and their respective body, or between this
and the purpose and circumstances that is affected.

Why the impression of light on the eyes to cause me a feeling given
that it's unlikely the same impression on the other hand?

Why the brain could not get in many ways such an impression?

And besides, why should be fully the fluid that surnamed light, causing us this impression?
Discover What disgust that the same feeling to see emanating from other brain disorders? A
blow to the head gives us the feeling of many points of light, and
hence the saying vulgar "has made me see the stars in the middle of
the day.

" Must confess, that philosophy knows nothing about these mysteries, and so far has not been able
to enter them, nothing can answer to the issues proposed, is an order of events, but not a
necessary link between them; rather, judging by the ideas we have about minds and bodies, everything
leads to believe that the phenomena of our life, no more reason than the will of the Creator.

[97.]
If possible an entirely new order of sensations, it involves no contradiction an animal endowed
with a sixth or seventh sense: the imagination falls short of what would be the new sensations,
but the reason you do not see them any impossibility.

CHAPTER XVII.

EXISTENCE OF NEW DIRECTIONS.

[98.] Is it true that we ourselves have no more than five ways to feel? I coat some doubts
about it. To present clearly and to resolve issues giving foot should be set while the significance
of words.

What is felt? In the more ordinary acceptation, expresses the impression that it is transmitted
to us by any of the bodies of the five senses. Taken the word in this sense, clear is to be limited
to these alone, but considered it expresses some kind of phenomena animals, is to experience a condition,
caused by an impression of the body. And this is as true in the same general purpose use the
word feel, in a respecter but can, not limiting it to the impressions
of the five senses.

While it is true that when expresses this idea substantively, is the difference between feeling
and sensation; However, even in this case, the force of things has used repeatedly to feeling word
in meanings that have nothing to do with the five senses. So you say "the news caused a profound
sensation." "He could not resist the urge sensation so vivid and so on. etc., "in which case
it is clear that this is not to see, hear, smell, taste and play,
but an order of the soul completely different conditions.

[99.] He said the force of things leads to use the word in the broadest sense; and this force is
that it considered the matter, check to see that the meaning can is more accurate than circumscribed.
Because in the eyes of philosophy, the phenomenon of feeling is to be in the soul an affection
caused by an organic impression, and of course this condition is that there is of order whatsoever,
and regardless of the body also affected, the animal phenomenon is in substance the same. The
difference is in the kind of affection, and the organ that is the conduit, but the essence
of the phenomenon does not change.

And if we call sensations species to conditions as diverse as those of sight and touch, why
can not apply this name to other impressions made by any organ?

[100.] But whatever it is the use of the words feeling and sensation, the truth is that conditions
over the five senses, we experience many impressions caused by organic. What are the passions
of the soul but conditions arising from certain provisions of organs? Love, anger, compassion,
joy, sadness, and many others that we agitated and upset, are not often excited by the mere presence
of an object?

[101.] Tell you that there is an essential difference between sense impressions and of the passions,
is that those disregard any previous idea of ​​all reflection, and
these the always involve more or less unwrapped.

Thus, an object presented to our eyes open we can not see him, and always in the same way, and yet
this same subject about sometimes excite in us a passion, sometimes another, sometimes none, and
almost always very variation in their degrees of intensity. There is also the simple presence
of the object that we affects, are needed under different conditions, such as the memory of a benefit
or an insult, the idea of ​​their sufferings and so on., thus you see that there is a essential
difference between these two kinds of views.

While reflecting on the difficulty I have proposed, you will find that most specious as it is,
and however much truth they contain, not destroy what has been established over above. In fact,
I have not said that the new prints were not subject to conditions very different from those
that mediate the five senses, but on the contrary, I always assumed, that the difference could
be not only the kind of posters and diversity of the organ, but also in the way in which this
was affected, and circumstances that through him the sensation was
produced in the soul, only I have argued that the phenomenon was in
substance animal the same, we see in him the three things which constitute
its nature, corporeal object; body affected by this; posters produced
in the soul.

That this impression to exist, need Gadget of this or that idea, of this or that memory, does not
mean that the phenomenon exists, and that is the same: there is a new condition and nothing
else.

[102.] But even here you can make another observation: there is no need to admit that it is necessary
any idea or thought to be born in the soul certain impressions at the sight of an object: everyday
experience teaches us otherwise.

How does the presence of an object captivated in an instant a tender heart, and maybe innocent?
Where does this fascination sudden, not preceded by any idea that brings no thoughts, and just
the consent? No thought of rude pleasures, for it may not even know its existence experiencing
the emotion, and the first time feel in your chest a previously unknown perturbation; then it must
resort to organic disease, similar to what is experienced in other senses. Congratulations
may be necessary under certain conditions of age and temperament, it has been necessary in a
thousand objects one particular circumstances, of which no succeeds to realize to himself touched
the heart: but the truth is, there is an object external, an affection of the body, and an impression
on the soul, all coexisting bound by a mysterious bond, but undeniable.

In the phenomena related to reproduction is easy to notice a series
of vivid impressions, arising from the mere presence of objects, and
if it is true that often assume the action of some of the five senses,
despite the varied conditions that on this occasion occur in the soul,
belong to an entirely different order. And to know that these conditions
depend on the organization, are not necessary physiological knowledge,
just remember that age, health status, temperament, food, weather,
seasons, and other similar causes, have in this class of phenomena
a lot of influence.

[103.] Among the feelings and sensations is a
difference, but does not alter the essence of the event, considered
physiologically and psychologically, however seem to change some both
in its intellectual and moral. The passions are excited by commonly
an animated object and sensitive and therefore it seems that rather
there is a communication of spirit spirit, soul with soul, not body
to body. A look languid and painful not just a human being, but also
of an animal, instantly aroused our heart the feeling of compassion,
but the look does not cause this effect but as we that expresses the
suffering of living. This observation is accurate, but does not prove
anything but there is in the mysterious nature of channels through
which knowledge is transmitted to us of hidden things, but this transmission
is done by a body in a way that affects particular our organization. Men and women, horses and dogs, are very much alike. I know
which can talk best. As to the rest, I don't know whether there's so much for us to be proud of.

It seems that this cranky wretch of a mare had been sideling and fidgeting when Mr. Falkland
and his daughter started for their ride; but had gone pretty fairly--Miss Falkland, like my
sister Aileen, could ride anything in reason--when suddenly a dead limb dropped off a tree
close to the side of the road.

I believe she made one wild plunge, and set to; she propped and reared, but Miss Falkland sat
her splendidly and got her head up. When she saw she could do nothing that way, she stretched
out her head and went off as hard as she could lay legs to the ground.

She had one of those mouths that are not so bad when horses are going easy, but get quite callous
when they are over-eager and excited. Anyhow, it was like trying to stop a mail-coach going
down Mount Victoria with the brake off.

So what we saw was the wretch of a mare coming along as if the devil was after her, and heading
straight across the plain at its narrowest part; it wasn't more than half-a-mile wide there,
in fact, it was more like a flat than a plain. The people about Boree didn't see much open
country, so they made a lot out of what they had.

The mare, like some women when they get their monkey up, was clean out of her senses, and I
don't believe anything could have held her under a hide rope with a turn round a stockyard
post. This was what she wanted, and if it had broken her infernal neck so much the better.

Miss Falkland was sitting straight and square, with her hands down, leaning a bit back, and
doing her level best to stop the brute. Her hat was off and her hair had fallen down and hung
down her back--plenty of it there was, too. The mare's neck was stretched straight out; her
mouth was like a deal board, I expect, by that time.

We didn't sit staring at her all the time, you bet. We could see the boy ever so far off. We
gathered up our reins and went after her, not in a hurry, but just collecting ourselves a bit
to see what would be the best way to wheel the brute and stop her.

Jim's horse was far and away the fastest, and he let out to head the mare off from a creek
that was just in front and at the end of the plain.

'By George!' said one of the men--a young fellow who lived near the place--'the mare's turning
off her course, and she's heading straight for the Trooper's Downfall, where the policeman
was killed. If she goes over that, they'll be smashed up like a matchbox, horse and rider.'

'What's that?' I said, closing up alongside of him. We were all doing our best, and were just
in the line to back up Jim, who looked as if he was overhauling the mare fast.

'Why, it's a bluff a hundred feet deep--a straight drop--and rocks at the bottom. She's making
as straight as a bee-line for it now, blast her!'

'And Jim don't know it,' I said; 'he's closing up to her, but he doesn't calculate to do it
for a quarter of a mile more; he's letting her take it out of herself.'

'He'll never catch her in time,' said the young chap. 'My God! it's an awful thing, isn't it?
and a fine young lady like her--so kind to us chaps as she was.'

'I'll see if I can make Jim hear,' I said, for though I looked cool I was as nearly mad as
I could be to think of such a girl being lost before our eyes. 'No, I can't do that, but I'll
TELEGRAPH.'

Chapter 10

Now Jim and I had had many a long talk together about what we should do in case we wanted to
signal to each other very pressing. We thought the time might come some day when we might be
near enough to sign, but not to speak. So we hit upon one or two things a little out of the common.

The first idea was, in case of one wanting to give the other the office that he was to look
out his very brightest for danger, and not to trust to what appeared to be the state of affairs,
the sign was to hold up your hat or cap straight over your head. If the danger threatened on
the left, to shift to that side. If it was very pressing and on the jump, as it were, quite
unexpected, and as bad as bad could be, the signalman was to get up on the saddle with his
knees and turn half round.

We could do this easy enough and a lot of circus tricks besides. How had we learned them? Why,
in the long days we had spent in the saddle tailing the milkers and searching after lost horses
for many a night.

As luck would have it Jim looked round to see how we were getting on, and up went my cap. I
could see him turn his head and keep watching me when I put on the whole box and dice of the
telegraph business. He 'dropped', I could see. He took up the brown horse, and made such a
rush to collar the mare that showed he intended to see for himself what the danger was. The
cross-grained jade! She was a well-bred wretch, and be hanged to her! Went as if she wanted
to win the Derby and gave Jim all he knew to challenge her. We could see a line of timber just
ahead of her, and that Jim was riding for his life.

'By----! they'll both be over it,' said the young shearer. 'They can't stop themselves at that
pace, and they must be close up now.'

'He's neck and neck,' I said. 'Stick to her, Jim, old man!'

We were all close together now. Several of the men knew the place, and the word had been passed
round.

No one spoke for a few seconds. We saw the two horses rush up at top speed to the very edge
of the timber.

'By Jove! they're over. No! he's reaching for her rein. It's no use. Now--now! She's saved!
Oh, my God! they're both right. By the Lord, well done! Hurrah! One cheer more for Jim Marston!'

    .   .   .   .   .

It was all right. We saw Jim suddenly reach over as the horses were going stride and stride;
saw him lift Miss Falkland from her saddle as if she had been a child and place her before
him; saw the brown horse prop, and swing round on his haunches in a way that showed he had
not been called the crack 'cutting-out' horse on a big cattle run for nothing. We saw Jim jump
to the ground and lift the young lady down. We saw only one horse.

Three minutes after Mr. Falkland overtook us, and we rode up together. His face was white,
and his dry lips couldn't find words at first. But he managed to say to Jim, when we got up--

'You have saved my child's life, James Marston, and if I forget the service may God in that
hour forget me. You are a noble fellow. You must allow me to show my gratitude in some way.'

'You needn't thank me so out and out as all that, Mr. Falkland,' said Jim, standing up very
straight and looking at the father first, and then at Miss Falkland, who was pale and trembling,
not altogether from fear, but excitement, and trying to choke back the sobs that would come
out now and then. 'I'd risk life and limb any day before Miss Falkland's finger should be scratched,
let alone see her killed before my eyes. I wonder if there's anything left of the mare, poor
thing; not that she don't deserve it all, and more.'

Here we all walked forward to the deep creek bank. A yard or two farther and the brown horse
and his burden must have gone over the terrible drop, as straight as a plumb-line, on to the
awful rocks below. We could see where the brown had torn up the turf as he struck all four
hoofs deep into it at once. Indeed, he had been newly shod, a freak of Jim's about a bet with
a travelling blacksmith. Then the other tracks, the long score on the brink--over the brink--where
the frightened, maddened animal had made an attempt to alter her speed, all in vain, and had
plunged over the bank and the hundred feet of fall.

We peered over, and saw a bright-coloured mass among the rocks below--very still. Just at the
time one of the ration-carriers came by with a spring cart. Mr. Falkland lifted his daughter
in and took the reins, leaving his horse to be ridden home by the ration-carrier. As for us
we rode back to the shearers' hut, not quite so fast as we came, with Jim in the middle. He
did not seem inclined to talk much.

'It's lucky I turned round when I did, Dick,' he said at last, 'and saw you making the "danger-look-out-sharp"
signal. I couldn't think what the dickens it was. I was so cocksure of catching the mare in
half-a-mile farther that I couldn't help wondering what it was all about. Anyhow, I knew we
agreed it was never to be worked for nothing, so thought the best thing I could do was to call
in the mare, and see if I could find out anything then. When I got alongside, I could see that
Miss Falkland's face was that white that something must be up. It weren't the mare she was
afraid of. She was coming back to her. It took something to frighten her, I knew. So it must
be something I did not know, or didn't see.

'"What is it, Miss Falkland?" I said.

'"Oh!" she cried out, "don't you know? Another fifty yards and we'll be over the downfall where
the trooper was killed. Oh, my poor father!"

'"Don't be afraid," I said. "We'll not go over if I can help it."

'So I reached over and got hold of the reins. I pulled and jerked. She said her hands were
cramped, and no wonder. Pulling double for a four-mile heat is no joke, even if a man's in
training. Fancy a woman, a young girl, having to sit still and drag at a runaway horse all
the time. I couldn't stop the brute; she was boring like a wild bull. So just as we came pretty
close I lifted Miss Falkland off the saddle and yelled at old Brownie as if I had been on a
cattle camp, swinging round to the near side at the same time. Round he came like one o'clock.
I could see the mare make one prop to stop herself, and then go flying right through the air,
till I heard a beastly "thud" at the bottom.

'Miss Falkland didn't faint, though she turned white and then red, and trembled like a leaf
when I lifted her down, and looked up at me with a sweet smile, and said--

'"Jim, you have paid me for binding up your wrist, haven't you? You have saved me from a horrible
death, and I shall think of you as a brave and noble fellow all the days of my life." And if you seviyanas hey say that if that
if Malaga, say that is chickweed. Jerez is the key in der cante. I declare that toos the sages
of the world.

When Rafael was felt strongly he had to terminate this period of sweet intimacy. One evening
he spoke alone with Mr. Fermin. He could not stay there, and soon reach the tenants, and home entertainment
Marchamalo regain her small town. In addition, Don Pablo announced plans to tear down the
mansion, to build that castle with which dreamed as a glorification of his family. Rafael explain
how their presence in the vineyard? It was a shame that a man of his energies to remain there,
without occupation, living under his godfather.

The matter seemed forgotten that night. He was not afraid to be persecuted, but he was determined
not to return to her old life.

- With vast, godfather had your honor right. Neither this is an honest way to make bread, nor
is there jembra to put up with a waiter how much money you bring home may die crummy.

He felt no fear, never!, But had his plans for the future. Wanted to obtain a family, like his father,
as his godfather, and not spend her life by throwing them in check
on the mountain.

Seek a more honest and peaceful occupation, but knew hunger.

And that's when Mr. Fermín, using his influence with Dupont, Rafael made Matanzuela overseer
of the farmhouse, owned by the nephew of the late Don Pablo.

The so Luis Jerez had again become a man, after a continuous pilgrimage all universities in Spain,
looking for professors who did not have leeway effort to frustrate future lawyers. His uncle had
an obligation to pursue a career, and while it lived, had resigned to lead the life of a student,
adjusting to close remittances and augment them with fierce loans, for which he signed in
the eyes how many papers they wanted to introduce closed loan sharks.

But to see the front of the family his cousin Paul and his next oldest, had refused to continue longer
comedy of their studies. He was rich, did not want to waste time on things that nothing interested
him. He took possession of his property, started the free existence of pleasure with which he had
dreamed of his close student life.

He traveled throughout Spain, but it was not to pass a subject here and beyond: aspired to be an
authority on the art of bullfighting, a great man of the fans, and went from place to place next
to your favorite matador, witnessing all of their runs. In winter, when resting their idols,
lived in Jerez in the care of their estates, and this care was passed
night at the Circle Caballista, heatedly discussing the merits of
his killer and the inferiority of their rivals, but with such vehemence,
that if a wound received years before a bull, of which there were
no bones or had been dropped or in place tentábase clothing over the
gun, the knife, the whole arsenal carrying on his person, as a guarantee
of value and the arrogance with which solved their issues.

No horse came out beautiful and Jerez stud price, not to buy it, engaging Bid with her cousin,
who was richer than him. At night, the mountaineers of the grocery stores will were entered
as a harbinger of storm, confident they would end up breaking bottles and plates and throwing
chairs through the air, to prove it was a real man and could then
afford all at triple price.

His ambition lay in being the continuation of the glorious San Marquis Dionisio, but in the Circle
Caballista said of him that was just a caricature.

- Le Farta the
estate, the one of the blessed scored - Mr. Fermin said after learning
of feats of Louis, whom he knew since childhood.

Women and the brave were the two passions of Master. With them was not very generous, wanted to be
adored by his merits rider arrogant, believing in good faith Jerez balconies all shook with the pounding
of hearts hidden when passing riding the last horse he had just purchased. With the court with
him, pests and bullies were more splendid. There was around the end of a bully famous Jerez sad not been
there he attracted by his liberality. Those who went to prison did not have to worry about
their fate, Don Luis was a good friend and also to give them money, they admired. When late-night carousing
at the end of the convenience stores, he felt drunk, scorned their loved ones to fix all his admiration
bronze in men who accompanied him. Was to show him the scars of his wounds, which described
his heroic fights. Many Sometimes, in the Circle Caballista pointed to a man Malcarado friends
waiting for him at the door.

- That's the Goat - said with the pride
of a prince who speaks of his great generals .-- A man who was dragged
along the ground tassels.

Between shooting and stabbing is over fifty scars on the skin.

I looked at all with insolent superiority, as if the scars were a
statement buddy of self-worth, and lived happily believing that everything
Jerez no one would dispute his guapeza with men and their good fortune
with women.

When the foreman Marchamalo spoke in favor of Rafael, the gentleman
admitted immediately.

I had heard the boy, was his own (and he said this took the air guard a teacher), I remembered certain
shots in the mountains and the fear that had the the shelter. Nothing, that stayed with him
and liked men.

- I will place in my farmhouse Matanzuela - said stroking Rafael friendly slap, like a new disciple
.-- The overseer I have is a short-sighted old media, which laugh the farmhands. And we know
what are the workers, poor people! With them, bread in one hand, and stick in the other. I need
a man like you, who put them in waist look after my interests.

And Rafael went to the farmhouse, not returning to the vineyard more than once a week, when
I was Jerez to talk to the master of the affairs of the farm. I often had to look at the house
of one of its protected. I got in bed, sitting on the cushion, resting in another head. The new
overseer laughed alone the bluster of his master, more attentive to recommend the hardness and
"metiese waist" to the lazy who worked their fields, to learn about agricultural operations, blaming
the poor harvests the farmhands, a scoundrel who would not work and wished that the masters were
to become servants, as if the world could turn upside down.

Don Luis came to forget about their hobbies and their amorous exploits bullying when he spoke boorish
people of the fields, driven by false apostles wanted to divide it all. He had studied (as
declared pompously at the Circle Caballista, regardless of the smiles of those who heard him),
he knew what he wanted the workers were utopias, that is, utopias (and repeated with pleasure the
word), and that all that happened was because governments do not "put into shape" for the laborers,
and also by lack of religion. Yes sir, religion: it was the brake of the poor, and as there
was less, the underdog, under the pretext of hunger, they wanted to eat the above.

These words were no longer smile Caballista partners, but those approved earnest gestures, with
all their faith in rich farmers, who shrugged his shoulders when a proposed deluded swamps and
canals, and every year large parties coasting to the Virgin of Merced, pulling it in supplication
just missing the water to their fields.

Despite these ideas that spread Luis in his moments of seriousness, saying that better went
about things if the governor, Don Pablo Dupont abhorred his cousin,
considering a shame to the family.

This relative, who renewed the scandals of San Dionisio, aggravated, according to Dona Elvira
plebeian in origin, was a calamity in a house that had always instilled respect for its noble
and holy customs. To make matters worse were the Marquis girls, Lola and Mercedes. The times
when his aunt choked with indignation, surprised by the night a grid floor of their hotel, talking
with the couple, which were renewed almost weekly! Tan lieutenants were soon back, as gentlemen's
horses, or young Englishmen, employees on desks, which were excited by stripping the country-style
turkey and made laugh Andalusian girls with British broken. There was no boy in Jerez had not
its time to talk with marquesitas unwrapped. Faced them all: just stand at their gates to enter
into dialogue, and without stopping passersby were persecuted the laughter and hisses sounded
ironic that behind him. Dupont's widow could not dominate his nieces, and they, in turn, and grew
up, showed themselves more insolent the devout lady. It was in vain that his cousin banned
from the bars. Burlábanse him and his mother, adding that they were not born to nuns. Listened hypocritical
gesture talks of the confessor of Dona Elvira recommending submission, and made use of all
kind of easy ways to communicate with the leading men on foot and
on horseback roamed the streets.

A Master of the Horse, son of a farmer, a great friend of the house Dupont, fell in love Lola, asking
her to marry in haste, as if afraid that he escaped.

Dona Elvira and her son accepted the application: The Circle raised eyebrows the value of that boy
marrying a daughter of the Marquis of San Dionisio.

This marriage was to release the two sisters. The single went to the other emancipate joyous
end of the sullen and devoted aunt, and a few months back to resume husband at home watching
habits near Dupont.

Mercedes spent the night in the privacy fence in tight with the couple, his sister with an
air of acompañábala lady, and talked with others to not waste time. The husband protested,
trying to rebel. But the two were indignant against him because he dared to interpret these
diversions innocent in a way offensive to her modesty.

Which of the two provided dislikes Marquis, as they were called in the city, the Dona Elvira
austere! ... Mercedes, the single, escaped with a rich Englishman. From time to time vague
news came that made pale with anger to the noble lady.

Sometimes they saw in Paris, others in Madrid, leading a life of elegant courtesan. Frequently
changed protectors, as attracted by his grace dozens picaresque. Further, in certain vanities produced
a great impression the title of Marchioness of San Dionisio, who had joined his name, nobility and
the crown that adorned their shirts at night and the sheets of a bed so popular as a main street
sidewalk.

Dupont's widow thought he would die to know such things. Lord, and for this were born the illustrious
men of his family, viceroys, archbishops and captains, giving the monarch titles and domains!
To serve as a prospect so much glory to a bad woman! ... And yet it was the best of both worlds.
At last he had fled for not insult about his family, and if she lived in sin, was among men
of a certain lineage, always decent, as is influenced in her respects to the rank of his family.

But
there was another, the eldest, married woman, and she wanted to end all killing relatives
shame. Married life after the escape of Mercedes, was hell.

The husband lived in perpetual suspicion, going blind in his suspicions, not knowing who to
be fixed because his wife looked equally to all men, as if it were offered to the eyes, talking
with a freedom that encouraged all kinds of daring. Fermin was jealous of Montenegro, which
had just arrived from London, and resumed his child intimacy Lola
frequent visitors, attracted by its picaresque language.

The domestic scenes ended with blows.

The husband, on the advice of friends, went to the slap and stick to tame the "wild beast",
but the little animals that justified the nickname, because when
stirred with vigor and aggressiveness of a feral child worthy of his
illustrious father, returned the blows so that was always the spouse
who was spared worse.

Often presented in the Circle Caballista with scratches on his face and bruised signals.

- With this you can not - he said friends in a tone of compassion .-- It is very funny woman
for you.

And celebrating the energy of Lola, the admired, with the secret hope of some day the disadvantaged.

The
scandal was so great that the husband retired to his parents and Marcasite was finally able to live
at home.

- Go away - the day her cousin said Dupont .-- You and your sister are our shame. Flee away and
where I will send you the necessary to live.

But Lola said with a lewd gesture, delighting in shock to his devoted family member. He pleased not
to go, and did not leave. She was very Flemish liked the land and its people. Would leave little
more than death.

Madrid walked some time with her sister, but his travels were short lived. Was a cañí, legitimate
daughter of the Marquis of San Dionisio. Not to take from it its juerguecitas until dawn, touching
palms and heels sitting with their skirts at the knees! That do not deprive the local wine,
it was his blood and happiness! If the family was raging, raging. She wanted to be a gypsy
like his father. Hated the gentlemen, he liked Pavero men in hats, and if they had zajones the better,
but real men, smelling block male and sweaty. And walking the fine blonde beauty with porcelain
meat grocery stores and inns, dealing with a fraternity exaggerated to the singers and prostitutes
that involved in binges, requiring that tuteasen, and laughing with nervous joy of drunk when
men, stupefied by wine, pull out the knives and females huddle frightened in a corner.

This life of drunkenness, noise, fights and alcohol that had seen fondling girl in the parental
home, atraíala ancestral hard, giving it without remorse, as whether
to continue a family tradition.

In their nocturnal outings, catching arm rustic lover enjoyed his momentary infatuation, was
with Louis Dupont and his entourage of happy people.

Cousins ​​called themselves by their distant relative, got drunk together, and Luis said his
decision to go to death with anyone who does not confess that Marquesita was "the woman Barbiana
of the earth." But despite the retirements of Lola, which allowed the skull appreciate their physical
secrets, and that more than once accompanied her to her house through the deserted streets, struggling
to contain their outbursts of hysterical that drove the scandal their relationship never became
a friendly intimacy. Luis felt certain hindrances in the desire and later left for the easy
business, as if Cohiba memory of the period of childhood they had spent together.

Commented citywide Marquesita scandals of the exhilarating much amazement
of the people quiet.

The same thing they saw in the main streets or in the elegantly dressed Country Fair in a luxurious
carriage, as it appeared disheveled, wrapped in a shawl walking copying of the girls wild
and answering the blandishments of the men with words blush many. He liked to smile with mysterious
gestures of complicity in the peaceful gentlemen she passed by with their families. After laughing
like crazy thinking complaints exploding the marital home and solemn marriages that honored
her had tried when she lived with her husband.

In one long side of the street, with tables the major casinos, had
kissed a friend exaggerated passion transport between the shouting
of the people who came to the door.

His last love was a young dealer in pigs, an athlete and warbler flat with living in the suburb.
One secret to this strong male's crazy. Spoke of him with pride, delighting in the contrast between
his birth and occupation of her lover. Occasionally suffered fits of levity and was absent
from the hut of the suburbs for a few days. The uncouth lover not wanted, making his return for
safe, and to return the wayward bird, whole neighborhood put on alert
with the blows and screams out the balcony Marquesita with her hair
down, asking for help, until a paw the started of the iron and got
inside to continue the thrashing.

If a friend spoke with buzzing tone of loving beatings, he answered with pride:

- He hits me because I can see, and I love him because he is the only one who understands me.
My swineherd is a man.

The scandals of the Marquesita outraged many, and rejoiced at the most. Popular people looked at
with some sympathy, as if their debasement flattered egalitarian instinct from below. Wealthy
families and devotees who could not deny their relationship to those of San Dionisio, looked
before as a title of pride, said with resignation: "It must be crazy, God will touch your soul
to repent. "

Those who resigned were not Dupont: Don Pablo and his mother, who returned to his hotel moody
and confused every time they saw on the streets the blond bun and
Lola insolent smile.

Les seemed that people were less respectful to them because of poor female dishonor family.
Even thought they saw in the raised certain smile, as if the insult them joy inferred that this
crazy relatives. Dupont lords began to frequent less the streets of the city, passing many days
on his farm in Marchamalo to avoid meeting the Marquesa and the people
who commented on his eccentricities.

This move away from Jerez allowed Dupont make their dreams on Marchamalo. Broke down the old
house and built new wineries, a beautiful house for his family, a chapel spacious and rich
as a temple, and a square tower with pointed battlements overlooking the waves of hills covered
with vines, which formed the great Marchamalo domain. Everything was new and solid, built with
great waste of money. Only left the house standing Dupont of the tenants, so that the farm
does not completely lose its traditional character, retaining The
smoky kitchen many years, in which laborers were sleeping around of
fogaril on a rush mat, only bed that gave them the Lord.

Fermín Montenegro, to go on holidays to visit his family, was always
with their owners.

Thus grew insensibly his dealings with Don Pablo. In the middle of the countryside, under the
bright blue sky, seemed to soften the imperious character of Dupont, making treat their subject
with more affection than on the desktop.

Watching the waves of strains that covered the slopes white, rich admired grower the fertility of his
farm, modestly attributing God's protection. Some spots extended their tragic barren desolation
among the foliage of the branches.

Traces were phylloxera that had ruined half Jerez.

Growers, crushed by falling wines, could not afford to replant their vineyards. It was a land
that aristocratic and expensive that only the rich could cultivate. Put back into operation a cost
aranzadas well as maintaining a decent family for a year. But the house was Dupont affluent
and could deal with the plague.

- Look, Ferminillo - said Don Paul, - all these clearly going to plant the American vine. With
this, and, above all, with God's help, you'll see how the thing goes well. The Lord is with those who
love Him.

Dona Elvira, meanwhile, did not descend to make confident of his thoughts to the family of Montenegro,
but deigned to speak with some frankness, which caused astonishment in their household in
the city. The noble lady was softened his pride living in the countryside. He spoke with Mr.
Fermin trying to figure out what was going Jerez church on Sundays
with Maria de la Luz, for mass ... To see the daughter of the foreman
abstract, putting his thoughts far, far away in the farmhouse where
he lived Rafael, the good lady played this sadness as a desire to
retreat, and offered his protection.

- No, ma'am - the girl said
smiling, - I do not want to be a nun.

A strip me of life.

Fermín Montenegro was not a secret for spiritual troubles, large setbacks suffered by the widow
of Dupont because of business. His son had to deal people of all classes, heretics and men without
religion, foreigners who drank wine of the house, and going through Jerez were to be greeted
with the treat they deserve good customers. Be good servants of the Lord and have to treat their
enemies as if they were Same!

In vain the Fathers of the Church of San Ignacio dissipated his scruples remembering the importance
of business and the influence exerted so powerful a house on the religiosity Jerez. Dona Elvira
only reconciled with its famous wine cellars where once a year out
for Rome a cask of wine, sweet and syrupy, for the Mass Pope on the
recommendation of several bishops, friends of the house. The honor
of serving as soothing. Still, what troubles did not suffer those
nasty blond foreign who had the audacity to read the Bible in their
own way and in their language, without believing in His Holiness or
go to Mass! ...

Montenegro knew one of the recent troubles of the
pious lady, who had reported the servants of the house.

The Dupont
had a Swedish traveler, the best agent for your business. Put thousands
and thousands bottles of wine produced Marchamalo fire in northern
countries almost endless nights and sunny days, which last month.
The salesman, after many years service to the house, had come to Spain,
to Jerez, to personally meet to Dupont. Don Pablo had thought indispensable
to dinner with his family.

Horrible torment that her mother suffered
at the stranger, huge body, red and talkative, with the childlike
joy of the Northmen when they come into contact with the sun and wines
from warmer countries. 'We're putting up a yard on a little plain about a mile from here.
When they find it, it'll be an old nest, and the birds flown.'

'Well, if that ain't the cheekiest thing I ever heard tell of,' says I laughingly. 'To put
up a yard at the back of a man's run, and muster his cattle for him! I never heard the like
before, nor any one else. But suppose the cove or his men come across it?'

''Tain't no ways likely,' says father. 'They're the sleepiest lot of chaps in this frontage
I ever saw. It's hardly worth while "touching" them. There's no fun in it. It's like shooting
pheasants when they ain't preserved. There's no risk, and when there's no risk there's no pleasure.
Anyway that's my notion.'

'Talking about risks, why didn't you work that Marquis of Lorne racket better? We saw in the
papers that the troopers hunted you so close you had to kill him in the ranges.'

Father looked over at us and then began to laugh--not long, and he broke off short. Laughing
wasn't much in his line.

'Killed him, did we? And a horse worth nigh on to two thousand pounds. You ought to have known
your old father better than that. We did kill A chestnut horse, one we picked out a purpose;
white legs, white knee, short under lip, everything quite regular. We even fed him for a week
on prairie grass, just like the Marquis had been eating. Bless you, we knew how to work all
that. We deceived Windhall his own self, and he thinks he's pretty smart. What I suppose, and
what I think about at face value, is that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune
president of the republic, or chief alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does
the will of the most or more worth by the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do
not provide relief and support for this whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day
in a cultured nation in Europe, would be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover
and friend, very generous patron of the sciences and arts, would by his side to a composer of
operas such as Wagner, to some excellent Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects,
sculptors, painters, poets, writers and scholars. Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and
reign in Spain he so identified with the national spirit and national thought then, would
cominero and with no less suspicious and no less cumbersome than it already did, but drifting
stream of time, far from being a fan, it would be a freethinker, but surreptitiously, with firmness,
and seek for different orientations, as they say now, that enlargement and prosperity of their states
that undoubtedly sought when there appeared for the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the
lofty, and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke,
two devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and other
good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject. And
the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection. Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated
and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he
dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to the place with the license absolute, it becomes
a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents
will bless and love him.

Even before that Luciano was an activist in the Pearl of the Antilles, from infancy almost, or
almost no, Luciano and Hope were dating, they were chained by the flowery sweet loop of the
most chaste and delicate love.

In the novel Snow and mud, whose author is Mr. José Joaquín Domínguez, master, to I mean, holy
cathedral of Guadix, everything I had to figure is beautifully told in full, with rare and
pure elegance of style, with spontaneous naturally and with such vividness and richness of color
so that credit with excellent and inspired writer who does, further demonstrating that paints what
he has seen, taking it from life and feel and love and reflected in his soul all that beauty, not
only as a faithful mirror but adorned, glorified and enlightened
by ideals also glows.

The love story of Snow and mud would be so nice and peaceful, although
less sensual sick and more ethereal than that of Daphnis and Chloe,
if not, as already indicated, by a rogue Lucas, son of the chief.

He throws it all away in the most unexpected, brutal and bloody.

As naturalísimo, lovers Luciano and Hope arrive at the end of their legitimate desires, and receive
the nuptial blessing in the church, but coram popular when the crowd
and general rejoicing, leaving the church the newlyweds, Lucas appears,
is thrown on Luciano like a tiger on its prey, and kills him with
two accurate and terrible stabbing.

Pitiful is the fact. Not without plausibility, although it is strange that someone, inveterate
cynical and vicious criminal who is, resort to murder so little pretense. For more than compliance
with the proverbial phrase or sentence that says that nothing is too dangerous or too difficult to
do when you have the mayor father, is even more strange that the
murder of Luciano go unpunished, and even that is applauded by the
higher authority, which is indicated and is presumed by the end of
the novel. Of course there was a risky feeling, but it wasn't such bad fun while it
lasted. We were out all day running in the cattle. The horses were in good wind and condition
now; we had plenty of rations--flour, tea, and sugar. There was no cart, but some good packhorses,
just the same as if we were a regular station party on our own run. Father had worked all that
before we came. We had the best of fresh beef and veal too--you may be sure of that--there
was no stint in that line; and at night we were always sure of a yarn from Starlight--that
is, if he was in a good humour. Sometimes he wasn't, and then nobody dared speak to him, not
even father.

He was an astonishing man, certainly. Jim and I used to wonder, by the hour, what he'd been
in the old country. He'd been all over the world--in the Islands and New Zealand; in America,
and among Malays and other strange people that we'd hardly ever heard of. Such stories as he'd
tell us, too, about slaves and wild chiefs that he'd lived with and gone out to fight with
against their enemy. 'People think a great deal of a dead man now and then in this innocent
country,' he said once when the grog was uppermost; 'why, I've seen fifty men killed before
breakfast, and in cold blood, too, chopped up alive, or next thing to it; and a drove of slaves--men,
women, and children--as big nearly as our mob, handed over to a slave-dealer, and driven off
in chains just as you'd start a lot of station cattle. They didn't like it, going off their
run either, poor devils. The women would try and run back after their pickaninnies when they
dropped, just like that heifer when Warrigal knocked her calf on the head to-day.' What a man
he was! This was something like life, Jim and I thought. When we'd sold the cattle, if we got
'em down to Adelaide all right, we'd take a voyage to some foreign country, perhaps, and see
sights too. What a paltry thing working for a pound a week seemed when a rise like this was
to be made!

Well, the long and short of it is that we mustered the cattle quite comfortably, nobody coming
anext or anigh us any more than if we'd taken the thing by contract. You wouldn't have thought
there was anybody nearer than Bathurst. Everything seemed to be in our favour. So it was, just
at the start. We drafted out all the worst and weediest of the cattle, besides all the old
cows, and when we counted the mob out we had nearly eleven hundred first-rate store cattle;
lots of fine young bullocks and heifers, more than half fat--altogether a prime well-bred mob
that no squatter or dealer could fault in any way if the price was right. We could afford to
sell them for a shade under market price for cash. Ready money, of course, we were bound to have.

Just as we were starting there was a fine roan bull came running up with a small mob.

'Cut him out, and beat him back,' says father; 'we don't want to be bothered with the likes
of him.'

'Why, I'm dashed if that ain't Hood's imported bull,' says Billy the Boy, a Monaro native that
we had with us. 'I know him well. How's he come to get back? Why, the cove gave two hundred
and fifty notes for him afore he left England, I've heard 'em say.'

'Bring him along,' said Starlight, who came up just then. 'In for a penny, in for a pound.
They'll never think of looking for him on the Coorong, and we'll be there before they miss
any cattle worth talking about.'

So we took 'Fifteenth Duke of Cambridge' along with us; a red roan he was, with a little white
about the flank. He wasn't more than four year old. He'd been brought out from England as a
yearling. How he'd worked his way out to this back part of the run, where a bull of his quality
ain't often seen, nobody could say. But he was a lively active beast, and he'd got into fine
hard fettle with living on saltbush, dry grass, and scrub for the last few months, so he could
travel as well as the others. I took particular notice of him, from his little waxy horns to
his straight locks and long square quarters. And so I'd need to--but that came after. He had
only a little bit of a private brand on the shoulder. That was easily faked, and would come
out quite different.

Chapter 12

We didn't go straight ahead along any main track to the Lower Murray and Adelaide exactly.
That would have been a little too open and barefaced. No; we divided the mob into three, and
settled where to meet in about a fortnight. 

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled with the literati. You are
a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while you hide
the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among many who
were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood that these
large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial foundations;
each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed from opinion, all
teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the preceptors
that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found among them heavenly
souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand Lama, had
great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings, which
had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had
been so dangerous, can be very helpful, especially Quando a prudent
government that hinders grange Influx left:? but profits may result
from the colossal wealth of the contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel. Was the crowded waiting room ladies of all kinds of wizards
of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister.

They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that this guy steals the provinces; disfigured
his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had his tastes, and hoped the women would soon
replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies have
them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants to hate him.
At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores, but still
alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto. The
conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who had by
rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired,
that all benefits had been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years
of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.

Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man,
and they loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had Babuca
eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints against
the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that could achieve
on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with so much energy,
complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia strengthened their
reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that
sacrificeth quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his
sweetheart. I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius
had dinner tonight with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the beautiful
lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without honor
possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow home of the
beautiful Theon. Some old Vestal whisper it, but most charities do that together herself that the
bite; not commit the slightest injustice all interests in the world,
to her lover gives advice always generous, just glory by it, and would
blush if their presence on one occasion broken? to do good, because
there is no greater stimulus to virtuous actions, which have the judge
and witness of his conduct which longs for a beloved one to deserve
appreciation.

Do not miss Babuca the appointment, and saw a house that was the emporium of delights. They
queen Teona, with each spoke the language he understood: his natural understanding dwell dexaba that
of others; liked almost without meaning was so kind and charitable, and to give more luster
all his skills, was very beautiful.

Babuca met since it was Scythian and sent by a genius, if more time stopped in Persepolis, Teona
would make him forget Ituriel. Affection took the city whose residents were friendly, courteous
and good, but gossips, frivolous and vain. Feared Whether it was ordered to Persepolis, and
even feared the bill that would give.

Did so to give it the following: statutory command to the best of people, who founded a small
statue, made of all metals, and land and most precious stones and more vile, and it took Ituriel.
? You will make pieces, said to him, this beautiful statue, it is not all gold and diamonds? Comprehended
Ituriel emblem, and was determined not to amend or even try to Persepolis,
and dexar that walked the world as it goes, "If all is not well, at
least everything is tolerable.

Persisted as Persepolis, and Babuca was far from complaining, as did Jonas that anger that
was not destroyed Nineveh. True, who has spent three days in the womb of a whale, do not spend
such a good mood as he has been in the works, in comedy, and have dinner with people from
fine deal.

End Babuca vision.

* * * * *

Memnon

HUMAN or sanity.

He placed on the head one day Memnon the wrongheaded idea of ​​being
completely sane, that few There are men who have not passed through
the head like crazy.

       Memnon went thus: For be very sane and very happy consequeencia,
simply drag dexarse ​​no passions: something very easy, as everyone
knows.

First, I will never love any woman, and seeing dire finished a beauty
inside me: One day is the face wrinkling; this turgid and round chest
has to turn soft and straight, that as well populated bald head has
to stay: and just look at me now as I see then, so that pretty head
is not it makes me lose mine.

Secondly, I will always be sober, but I tempted by the candy, exquisite wines and the incentive
of society. I is listed the result of gluttony, head charged stomach upset, loss of reason,
health and time, and so only eat what need, I will enjoy sound health, and will always clear and
bright ideas. Thing is this so easy, it is not worthwhile to get away with it.

Then continued Memnon, one must not neglect their flow: my desires are moderate, I have my money
that I feel good yields and good bonds held by the General Treasurer
of Nineveh, and I need to live without depending on anyone, which
is the greatest fortune, because he never I see you in the cruel precision
of going to kiss the hands of courtiers, no one will envy, and I'll
be the envy of anyone, if not more easy.

I have friends, he said finally, and he remains, it never makes bad third; not ever be angry
with me, nor I with them, even in This provides difficulty.

Formed so its planecico of moderation and hike for its fourth, is Memnon hint to the window and
saw two ladies who went through streets of bananas, which had immediate
home.

Was old one, and not afflicted apparently nothing, the other girl was cute and had traces of be
very sorrowful, sighing, and crying, and that it gave him more grace. Hastened away much our
wise, not with the beauty of the lady (he was sure not to surrender to this weakness) but if
by the despair in which the track. Baxo, and approached the young Ninevites, with the intention
of prudent to give consolation. Contol is beautiful with the most naive and tender expression
of damage it to a guy who had not, with that device had been deprived of a flow that never had
possessed, and fears that caused his outbursts.

You seem to me prudent man said to him, and if I hicierais Please come to my house, and discuss
my issues, I am certain that I sacariais the cruel predicament I see. Memnon did not hesitate
to camp out for maturely discuss its affairs, and give good advice.

The bereaved lady brought him a well-scented toilet, and forced him to sit very courteous sofa on
a dock, where they were cross-legged facing each other. The lady spoke Eye shoals, Quando Quando
in it were the tears, and when the up, always ran into the eyes of sane Memnon. His reasons were loving
too much, and much more Quando both looked. Memnon took to heart his affairs, and every moment
growing up in the desire to serve the beautiful and unhappy person. With the warmth of the conversation
dexaron little by little found opposite each other, and having crossed legs, advising Memnon so
closely, and being so affectionate advice, that neither could speak affairs, and knew where they
were.

While in this comes, as the reader has imagined, the uncle, came armed qual to the nines, and
the first thing he said was he would kill, as was just, the wise Memnon and his niece, and the last
thing that could forgive, if given a lot of money. Saw himself pointed Quanto Memnon had to
give, and thanks to those fortunate times worse had not result to fear that even America was
not discovered, nor were the beautiful women afflicted as dangerous as now.

Confused and desperate Memnon was returned to his home, where he found a note inviting me to
intimate dinner with some friends.

If I stay home alone, he said, will have concerns with the mood my sad adventures, eating, and
falling evil, but it make a frugal meal with my friends intimate, and with his pleasant company
to forget the nonsense that this morning I made. Was to treat, and seeing that I was a bit sad,
he was forced to drank to dispel his melancholy. The wine used in moderation is medicine for
the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the wise Memnon, and got drunk. Proponenle desktop
play a hand: a game where you go through recently, is an innocent
diversion.

Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about his word. Give rise to
a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate friends a cup head
you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and with an eye less.

Having
slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh, to
give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had made a bad
faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families. Memnon be spiteful
palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the bankrupt,
and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos twenty feet
in circumference, and gowns thirty tail. One that he knew something, he said the sideways facing
you: iJesus, how awful! Y another that he knew more: Good afternoon, sir Memnon, really, I'm
glad Mr. Memnon much to see you:? like that you are one-eyed, Mr.
Memnon? and said this, he left without waiting for response.

Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able to throw at the feet of the monarch. His Majesty
arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times, and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign
with great kindness, and handed him one of his lieutenants, to give her account. Call The
satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are,
because you dare to give the king a memorial that has not passed through my hands, and you commit
to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew
a maid service to my dear. Do not give more step in the matter, at your peril good eye you
have left.

Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and
most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated by a herniosa lady, had drunk,
he had played, he had an eye removed, and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.

Confused,
lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead, and going to
enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf of its creditors.
Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning, which was still
walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight of Memnon with
his patch.

Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the walls of his house Entrol fever,
is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream a heavenly spirit, And he shone
like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no head or tail, and not like any thing.
Who are you? Memnon said to him

.

Father got vexed at last and makes a sign to old Crib; he fetches him such a 'heeler' as gave
him something else to think of for a few miles. He didn't hang back much after that.

The three other chaps went their own road. They kept very dark all through. I know their names
well enough, but there's no use in bringing them up now.

Jim and I cuts off into the town, thinking we was due for a little fun. We'd never been in
a big town before, and it was something new to us. Adelaide ain't as grand quite as Melbourne
or Sydney, but there's something quiet and homelike about it to my thinking--great wide streets,
planted with trees; lots of steady-going German farmers, with their vineyards and orchards
and droll little waggons. The women work as hard as the men, harder perhaps, and get brown
and scorched up in no time--not that they've got much good looks to lose; leastways none we
ever saw.

We could always tell the German farmers' places along the road from one of our people by looking
outside the door. If it was an Englishman or an Australian, you'd see where they'd throwed
out the teapot leavings; if it was a German, you wouldn't see nothing. They drink their own
sour wine, if their vines are old enough to make any, or else hop beer; but they won't lay
out their money in the tea chest or sugar bag; no fear, or the grog either, and not far wrong.
Then the sea! I can see poor old Jim's face now the day we went down to the port and he seen
it for the first time.

'So we've got to the big waterhole at last,' he said. 'Don't it make a man feel queer and small
to think of its going away right from here where we stand to the other side of the world? It's
a long way across.'

'Jim,' says I, 'and to think we've lived all our lives up to this time and never set eyes on
it before. Don't it seem as if one was shut up in the bush, or tied to a gum tree, so as one
can never have a chance to see anything? I wonder we stayed in it so long.'

'It's not a bad place, though it is rather slow and wired in sometimes,' says Jim. 'We might
be sorry we ever left it yet. When does the steamer go to Melbourne?'

'The day after to-morrow.'

'I'll be glad to be clear off; won't you?'

We went to the theatre that night, and amused ourselves pretty well next day and till the time
came for our boat to start for Melbourne. We had altered ourselves a bit, had our hair cut
and our beards trimmed by the hairdresser. We bought fresh clothes, and what with this, and
the feeling of being in a new place and having more money in our pockets than we'd ever dreamed
about before, we looked so transmogrified when we saw ourselves in the glass that we hardly
knew ourselves. We had to change our names, too, for the first time in our lives; and it went
harder against the grain than you'd think, for all we were a couple of cattle-duffers, with
a warrant apiece sure to be after us before the year was out.

'It sounds ugly,' says Jim, after we had given our names as John Simmons and Henry Smith at
the hotel where we put up at till the steamer was ready to start. 'I never thought that Jim
Marston was to come to this--to be afraid to tell a fat, greasy-looking fellow like that innkeeper
what his real name was. Seems such a pitiful mean lie, don't it, Dick?'

'It isn't so bad as being called No. 14, No. 221, as they sing out for the fellows in Berrima
Gaol. How would you like that, Jim?'

'I'd blow my brains out first,' cried out Jim, 'or let some other fellow do it for me. It wouldn't
matter which.'

It was very pleasant, those two or three days in Adelaide, if they'd only lasted. We used to
stroll about the lighted streets till all hours, watching the people and the shops and everything
that makes a large city different from the country. The different sorts of people, the carts
and carriages, buggies and drays, pony-carriages and spring-carts, all jumbled up together;
even the fruit and flowers and oysters and fish under the gas-lights seemed strange and wonderful
to us. We felt as if we would have given all the world to have got mother and Aileen down to
see it all. Then Jim gave a groan.

'Only to think,' says he, 'that we might have had all this fun some day, and bought and paid
for it honest. Now it isn't paid for. It's out of some other man's pocket. There's a curse
on it; it will have to be paid in blood or prison time before all's done. I could shoot myself
for being such a cursed fool.'

'Too late to think of that,' I said; 'we'll have some fun in Melbourne for a bit, anyhow. For
what comes after we must "chance it", as we've done before, more than once or twice, either.'

    .   .   .   .   .

Next day our steamer was to sail. We got Starlight to come down with us and show us how to
take our passage. We'd never done it before, and felt awkward at it. He'd made up his mind
to go to New Zealand, and after that to Honolulu, perhaps to America.

'I'm not sure that I'll ever come back, boys,' he said, 'and if I were you I don't think I
would either. If you get over to San Francisco you'd find the Pacific Slope a very pleasant
country to live in. The people and the place would suit you all to pieces. At any rate I'd
stay away for a few years and wait till all this blows over.'

I wasn't sorry when the steamer cleared the port, and got out of sight of land. There we were--where
we'd never been before--in blue water. There was a stiff breeze, and in half-an-hour we shouldn't
have turned our heads if we'd seen Hood and the rest of 'em come riding after us on seahorses,
with warrants as big as the mainsail. Jim made sure he was going to die straight off, and the
pair of us wished we'd never seen Outer Back Momberah, nor Hood's cattle, nor Starlight, nor
Warrigal. We almost made up our minds to keep straight and square to the last day of our lives.
However, the wind died down a bit next day, and we both felt a lot better--better in body and
worse in mind--as often happens. Before we got to Melbourne we could eat and drink, smoke and
gamble, and were quite ourselves again. We'd laid it out to have a reg'lar good month of it
in town, takin' it easy, and stopping nice and quiet at a good hotel, havin' some reasonable
pleasure. Why shouldn't we see a little life? We'd got the cash, and we'd earned that pretty
hard. It's the hardest earned money of all, that's got on the cross, if fellows only knew,
but they never do till it's too late.

When we got tired of doing nothing, and being in a strange place, we'd get across the border,
above Albury somewhere, and work on the mountain runs till shearing came round again; and we
could earn a fairish bit of money. Then we'd go home for Christmas after it was all over, and
see mother and Aileen again. This in yes,
it is a fact of our soul, witnessed by the internal sense, but knowing that fact of experience,
is something very different from the same experience as you to know this, we make the transition
from the subjective to the objective, referring to what we experience outside in the lower.

Objects refer to different points in space, we consider each other out: say that this instinct
in question is a condition of our subject and experience sensitive, is to enter a fact sterile.
The difficulty lies in knowing why we have the instinct of such a reference, that the representation
of an extension is in our soul; CHAPTER why such subjective lies in a simple being, it has to
offer to our perception as the image of an external thing really big.

[125.] The Transcendental Aesthetic can propose the following problems:

1.

No Explain what the subjective representation of the extension, quite
apart of all objectivity.

2. º Why this representation is in our soul.

3. No. Why would a be one, must contain within itself the representation of the manifold, and a
being unextended, that of the extension.

4. º do we move from the ideal extension to the real.

5. º determine the extent to which the extension can be applied to
what is said of other sensations to which they are regarded as phenomena
of our soul, no such object on the outside, and no further correspondence
with the outside world that the ratio of effects to causes.

[126.] What is the subjective representation of the extension, irrespective of any objectivity?
An act of our soul: there is no further explanation: who knows what it takes, who not I have not, except
for higher intelligence, which may know what is such representation, not experience it just
like us.

[127.] Reached that can not explain why our soul is in the representation the extension, might
as well ask why we are intelligent and sensitive. For us there is no a priori reason, but such
has made us the Creator. Such representation is can be found in us, and is in effect, so be
it experience, but that experience Internal is the limit of philosophy
above there is nothing for us that is the subject of immediate observation.

Reasoning leads to the discovery of a cause that has brought us; phenomenon but not a root of
the phenomenon of experience.

[128.] Why would a be one, must contain the representation of the manifold, and a being unextended,
that of the extension? This amounts to raise the issue of intelligence that through what is
intelligence, is one and simple, and capable of perceiving the multiplicity and composition.

[129.]
Why do we move from the ideal extension to the real? by a natural
impulse irresistible confirmed with the consent of reason, as I have
shown in Volume I, and also in this, when dealing with the objectivity
of the senses.

[131.] According to this latter problem is resolved, the question is resolved in favor or against idealists.
If applicable to the extension, which is said of the other sensations, idealism triumphs, the
real world, if there is a being that has nothing similar to what we think.

So that in dealing with feelings (Lib. II, Chapters VII, VIII and IX, and Lib. III, chap. IV)
evidence that the extension is a real thing, regardless of our feelings; and I also explained
(Lib. II, cap. VIII, and Lib. III, chap. VI) represents the multiplicity we and continuity: this
is enough to combat idealism, as well as to be understood to some
extent, what the extension, but as in those places had not been even
discussed the idea of ​​space, closely linked to the extension, it
was not possible enter another line of rising above considerations
that the phenomenal order, you look to the extension under a transcendental
aspect, examining themselves, ignoring all relations with the world
of appearances.

This is what I intend to do in chapters following.

[132.] Entered a very rough terrain: it is to distinguish things which are of apparent than real
closure, the understanding, that we always walk accompanied by sensible representations, must
do without them, what amounts to be some struggle with a condition
subject to which it is naturally in the course of their functions.

CHAPTER XIX.

CONSIDERATIONS ON THE EXTENSION, abstracted from the phenomena.

[133.] It is not long be alone, but a group of beings need the extension contains parts, some out
of others, and therefore different, the bond between them is not
the identity as well as unite, represent different, because nothing
binds to himself.

According to this it seems that the extension itself, as distinct from the extended things, not
nothing fake extension as a being whose very nature can be investigated, is delivered to a
game of imagination.

The extension is not identified with any of the united beings, considered in particular, but
it seems the result of their union. This is verified, and suppose the extension generated unextended
dot, spot or extensive, but infinitely divisible. If we assume unextended points, it is clear
that the extension is not them, then, that extensive and inextensible, are contradictory things.
If the means extensive, nor identify with the extension: because
it includes the idea of ​​a whole, and no everything is identical
with any of its parts: in a line of four feet wide, no identity between
the same line and each of its parts equal to one foot.

Just as we consider these parts of a foot, we can pretend of an inch, and divide to infinity,
in no case be verified that some is equal to another child that is made, then any extension
is identical with taken extensive beings in particular.

[134.] Wrapping extension the idea of ​​multiplicity, it seems that the extension should look,
not as a being in itself but as a result of the union of many things, but what is such a result?
is what we call continuity, we have seen (Lib. II, Cap. VIII) be
the extension that is not enough variety.

This comes in the idea of ​​number, and yet the number does not represent us an extended thing.
Also designed a set acts, powers, activities, substances, beings of various kinds, without conceive
extension, however, that in these concepts enters the manifold.

[135.] Then continuity is needed to complete the idea of ​​the extension. What is continuity? being
a party outside of others, but together. But what means out, what
mean together?

Inside and out, together and separately, involving extension, assume the same you want to
explain, the thing defined in the definition comes under the same concept needs to be defined.
Indeed, when looking what is the continuity of the extension, he asks, what is to be in and
out, and together and separately.

[136.] Should not forget this observation not to be satisfied with the explanations is found in
almost all books. Define the extension by the words in and out, no ie nothing in philosophical,
is expressed in different words the same thing. No doubt that if this is simply the phenomenon
record is as simple to use this language, but the philosophy is very little satisfaction. This
is a practical explanation; but not speculative. The same is true of the definition of the
extension in space or places. What is the extension? the occupation of a place - but what is
the place? - a portion of the finished space for certain areas: - What is space? - this extension
they believe placed the bodies, or the ability to receive .-- But even assuming alleged the existence
of space as an absolute thing, what is in the same bodies of ability
to fill the space?

Who does not see a thing explained itself, there a circle is not out? The extension of space
is explained by the ability to receive; the extension of bodies by the ability to fill: there
is always intact the idea of ​​extension: not defined: it is expressed with different words
that mean the same thing.

To assume the existence of space as an absolute thing, nothing moves forward, but also this
assumption is entirely gratuitous. Taking the extension of space as a term reference by which to
explain the extension of bodies, is also to found what they assume to be sought.

If these words, inside and out, we explain by referring to various designated points or appointed
in the space, we incur the same error, we define the very thing itself;
because the same difficulty we have with respect to space to see what
is inside and outside and together and separately, or adjacent and
distant.

If we assume for the extension of space as an absolute thing, and try to explain to her about
other extensions, we are the illusion more complete: it is to explain the extension itself, the space
needed be explained as the others: Terminate presupposing is the question to be resolved.

[137.] The extension with respect to its size, seems to be independent of the extended thing,
in one place. With absolute firmness, can present itself an extension with the same dimensions,
in spite of continuous change extended thing. Assuming the passage of a series of objects for
a fixed visual field, extended things constantly vary, and the extension is the same. Suppose
a canvas that will run behind a window we have in sight: the thing extensive continuum is different,
because that part of the canvas we see at the moment A is different from that seen at time
B, and yet the extension in size, unchanged. So much to surfaces, it is not difficult to apply
the same doctrine to volumes. A place can be filled on an infinite number of subjects, leaving the
same volume capacity. In the identity of the extension designed, have no part of the vessel
walls, because in the same place that it occupies, can be placed
infinite vessels of the same extension: the surrounding air, or another
body that surrounds the walls either vessel, it has nothing to do
with the identity of the extension, because the air can changed, and
indeed are constantly changing, but the volume is altered.

[138.] The fixity of the size, notwithstanding the variety of objects, there is no evidence in
for the pure subjectivity of the extension, even when involving objects indiscernible that have
changed, otherwise will result, which would prove the range of dimensions for objectivity of
them: and therefore the argument against opponents twist a with the same force. This peer shows that
there are objects that can cause different similar impression, and that we can form an idea of
​​a particular dimension, or a figure, regardless of the particular object that corresponds
to or may correspond. No one doubts that representation of the dimensions is in us, no need to refer
to anything particular: the question is whether these dimensions
are made, and what is its nature, regardless of their relationship
with us.

[139.] If we accept that continuity is not designed external object,
or space pure or in the body What reduces the corporeal world? to
a set of beings that a way or another, they exert their action upon
our being and in a certain order.

Note that the difficulties are objecting against the continued phenomenal held not are undone by
appealing to the needs of the organization 's body to be sensitive. Who say: how can external beings
exert action upon us, if they themselves have no continuity with that face us? May influence
how our bodies? manifestaria they have not understood the status of the matter: it is evident
that if we strip the world external real continuity, leaving only the phenomenal, she will be
deprived of our same organization, which is but a part of this universe. Here is a relationship
reciprocal, a kind of parallel events and facts, which are explained and completed versa. If the
universe is a set of beings that act upon us in a certain order, our organization will be another
set of beings who will be influenced in the same order; or can not be explained as any two things,
or explain one explains the other: so that this order is fixed and constant, and correspondence
the same, nothing is altered, regardless Regardless of the assumptions
adopted for the explanation of the phenomenon.

[140.] Also note that in this part of philosophy, which is known reality
is, to pass the tests to explain the phenomenon, and not be in contradiction
with the order of our ideas.

One could object to those who remove the external world or phenomenal qualities apparent continuity,
destroying the geometry that is based on the idea of ​​continuous phenomenal but this difficulty
falter at their base, because it assumes that the geometric idea is phenomenal, when it is transcendental.
We have seen that the idea of ​​extension is not a feeling, but a
pure idea, and that imaginary representations that awareness, not
the idea, but forms of the same idea is coated.

[141.] A great extension presents us with a certain size, and geometry ignores of all sizes. The theorems
and problems relate to the figures in general, regardless absolute size, and when this comes into
consideration, it is only in relative terms. Into triangles of equal bases, the greatest height will
be larger in area: here the word more in terms of size, it is true, but not to any absolute
size, but purely relative question, rather than the magnitude of the relation of magnitudes. Thus the theorem
check, whether we speak of triangles of a huge extension, as infinitesimal triangles. After
completely ignores the geometry of the magnitudes considered as phenomena, and only uses them
as the sensible representation perception may help to intellectual.

[142.] This is an important truth that will show up more and more to fight the system Condillac in
the treaty of ideas, where I will show that even those we have of bodies, are or may be a
feeling transformed. According to these principles, the geometry is the science of an order of beings,
which sensitizes pure ideas in a phenomenal representation. This representation is necessary,
provided that the science of geometry is to be submitted by to this
phenomenon, but in itself and considered the science in all its purity,
not necessary that representation.

[143.] Lest this seem so strange doctrine, and this more acceptable, ask if the pure spirits
possess the science of geometry, it is true that yes, otherwise serious must conclude that
God, the author of the universe, to whom with profound truth has been called the great mathematician,
does not know geometry. Now, does God have such representations we envision the extension? No:
these representations are a kind of continuation sensitivity, which is not in God, are the exercise
of the internal sense, not is in God. These are the representations to which St. Thomas calls
phantasmata, which according to the same holy Doctor, there are neither in God nor in any
pure spirit, even in disembodied soul. It is then possible, and there is actually the science
of geometry, without the sensible representation, then there is no objection to distinguish
two extensions, a phenomenal, a real one, not that it be destroyed or reality or the phenomenon,
provided that is left between the two due correspondence so that the thread that connects our being
with other beings is not broken, putting in contradiction of our
nature conditions with objects that are offered (IV).

CHAPTER XX.

IF absolute magnitude.

[144.] This doctrine will make it more plausible if we look above
all perceptions to purely intellectual on the extension, it reduces
knowledge of order and relationships.

In the eyes of science, even geometric, it seems that nothing is absolute: the absolute in all
With regard to the extension, is a rude imagination, that the observation of these phenomena
enough to destroy.

In order of appearance, there is no absolute magnitude, all are relative even We formed an idea
of ​​magnitude, but with regard to another that serves as a measure.
What is absolute is the number, not the extension: the absolute magnitude
as numbered but not itself. In an area of ​​four square feet are enclosed
in two ideas: the number of the parties to respect, and class of these
parts: the number is a fixed idea, but class of these parts is purely
relative. Well, there's something pleasant in
it; and it makes you think human nature ain't quite such a low and paltry thing as some people
tries to make out. Anyhow, when we went away our good little landlady and her sister was that
sorry to lose us, as you'd have thought they was our blood relations. As for Jim, every one
in the house was fit to cry when he went off, from the dogs and cats upwards. Jim never was
in no house where everybody didn't seem to take naturally to him. Poor old Jim! As to the third relation, namely that of action a case involving
a body, can be found in all agents capable of acting on area, but it is clear that this situation
that it will be very different from that conceive in bodies or in its entirety: it is about
a completely different order, which rather refers to the pure idea of ​​causality, not to
the intuition of space.

[193.] It is clear that we can conceive of a being that is not body or part of the body, or
exert no action on them: in which case this will not be any three relations expressed and then
not be in any place: and that is here or that is there, which is
close or distant you are, will use words without meaning.

[194.] In light of this doctrine is easily resolved the following issues.

Where would be a pure spirit that did not have any causal relationship
or influence of any kind, on the corporeal world? anywhere.

The answer does not seem strange but who did not understand the question is absurd. In the
case of course, nowhere; because where it involves a relationship, and here there is none.

Where were pure spirits, if there were no corporeal world? anywhere:
to Unless you mean that they would be in themselves.

But then the word will not mean the situation that we speak here, but rather the existence or
the spirit, or your identity himself.

Where was God before breeding the world? was, and was not anywhere: because there was no parties.

[195.]
Here you'll notice a mistake of Kant. Philosopher who has thought this space was conceived
by us as a condition of all existence in general, and this has founded one of his reasons for
holding that space was a purely subjective. In explaining in the second edition of his Critique
of Pure Reason, how to understand the subjectivity space, appears to state that we do not even
conceive of the intellectual order of things pure, no relation to space. Makes the observation
that in natural theology, being of an object of intuition can not be sensible either for us
or for himself, is careful not to attribute to his intuition or how to see, time and space, conditions
of human intuitions, "but adds, with what right can proceed well as has been done before in
space and time the forms of things in themselves, and forms such that as conditions of existence of
things à priori, there remain even after have destroyed everything with the thought, because
as conditions of all existence in general, should be also of the existence of God. If space and time
does not make them forms objective of all things, just subtract them subjective forms of our mode of
intuition, both internally and externally. Kant is right in that space and time should not be
considered as real forms, incapable of being annihilated, and therefore necessary and eternal,
but not reach the reason why the dilemma that if we do aims to space and time objective forms
of all things, we are compelled to turn them into subjective so that in the opposite case space
and time would be a condition of existence the same God.

[196.] We consider space as the current condition of the existence
of things situable; but not everything.

In the pure spirits were conceived without the existence relation to any place, and therefore
independent of position in space.

At this point, as all records relating to the purely intellectual order, are found in extremely
important doctrines theologians worthy of being consulted by those who want to deepen philosophical
questions, they could have been able to find the author of the Critique of pure reason, comments
that would have clarified problems whose solutions will embarrassed: in the present instance, would
have been able to see how inaccurate is that space is a condition the existence of all things,
finding the beautiful and deep theory with many Scholastic explain the presence of God in the
corporeal world, the angels in different places, their movements from one point to another without
passing through the middle, and the manner in which the soul is all around the body, and all
in any of the parties hereto. In these as little work as worthy of being consulted, there would
have noticed the German philosopher who the presence in a case of
spirits, was something entirely different the presence of bodies,
and that had nothing to do with the intuition of space nor in basis
of representation is sensible, even as a geometric idea.

[197.] Search St. Thomas (1. P. slope. 8. Art. 1.) If God is in all things, and responds yes:
but to prove his assertion, no need to lay hold of everything is located, before instead, you miss
the idea of ​​space, and appeals to the causal. "Being God the same being in its essence, it
is necessary to be raised is its own effect: as the swell is characteristic of fire. This effect,
God will cause things not only when they begin to be for the first time, but when kept in the
self: as the light air, while maintaining light, the sun arises. It is necessary therefore that
while the thing has being, God is This, according to the manner in which it is being: being
is the most intimate that there is any thing, and what is more deeply
inherent to it: because that's all that formal is the thing: thus,
God is in all things, and intimacy.

"

Being located in space is to be contained therein, and we think all that we consider situated
therein: St. Thomas rejects this sense, when it comes to spiritual
beings, and says that while things are corporeal as content, the spiritual
and Instead, they contain things that are.

In the second article asks whether God is in all places, place, and says that God is in all things
giving them being, and the strength and operation, and in all places, giving being and capacity
virtutem locativam. We propose the argument that incorporeal things not in any place, and responds
with the following highly philosophic words: "The incorporeal things are not in place by contact
dimensive amount, but by contact activity, virtutis. "Then, explaining how he can be in different
indivisible Places says: "the indivisible is of two kinds, one that is the end of the continuum,
as permanent point in time thereafter. The indivisible in the permanent, can not be in many
parts of a place, or in many places, owing to having a situation certain: just as indivisible
in the action or the movement can not be in many around the time because it has an order determined
by the movement or action. But there indivisible one that is out of all kinds of continuous
and thus substances incorporeal like God, the angel and the soul called indivisible. What is
indivisible Thus, it is not applicable to continuous as something that pertenenezca, but as it
touches its activity: and so that it can be extended according to one or many objects, to the
small or, at large, is in one or many places and in a small or big. "

What could be more clear, referring to the intuition of space, that when a thing is all in one
place, it has nothing out of that place? and yet the holy Doctor, rising on sensible representations,
sits firmly that God may be all in all, all in any part, as the soul is all in any part of the
body. Why? because what is called in all bodily things, refers to the amount, and the whole the disembodied
essence is all that is therefore not commensurate with quantity, nor tight anywhere.

The Treaty of angels, (1. P. slope. 52. Art. 1.) Saying that are in place, warns this is stated wrongly,
æquivocè [2].

 
the angel and the body, because the body is in place, applied to him by
contact dimensive quantity, but the angel the amount is only virtual,
ie, in exercising its action on any body: which is not to say that the
angel is located in the continuous, ongoing in situm habeat.

The Treaty of soul, (1.P. cuest.70. Art.8.) Argues that this, is all around the body and all in
either party, and again to distinguish between essence and all fully quantitative, using a
similar argument we've seen with respect the angels. Those who have laughed at this doctrine,
which is found much deeper the more you think about it, have expressed with regard to surface
relations with spiritual things corporeal. In general, it is dangerous to laugh of views held
by great men in matters as serious, because if you do not succeed, have at least strong reasons
in its favor. Nothing more contrary to the representations sensitive to the possibility of
being one thing to the same time in different places; but nothing more philosophical than this possibility,
when you have thoroughly analyzed the relationship extension of the unextended things, and has discovered
the difference that the situation will quantitative causal situation.

[198.] Infiérese of these doctrines that being in space is not a general condition of all stocks,
even according to our conception: for a well conceived thing to exist, without regard to any
place. At this point, the imagination is confused with understanding, and it is believed impossible
for this so it is just for that. It is true that anything you can imagine, without reference to points
of space, and that therefore the case that we even in dealing with the objects of pure understanding,
always offers some representation sensitive, but it is true that the understanding is consistent
with these representations, as that is false. As the imagination is a kind of continuation of the sensitivity
or is an internal sense, and the basis of feelings is the extension, we can not exercise this
internal sense, but we offer the space, as we have seen, is but the idea of ​​extension in general.
Thus, the situation in space is a general condition of all the things
on the senses, but not as understood.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

CONTINGENCY corporate relations.

[199.] The situation in place, is the relationship of one body with another, "these relationships
are necessary? Conditionally, yes, essentially, no, I mean that God has established well, and
in this sense are necessary: ​​but God could have established otherwise and may even alter the
present, without changing the essence of things.

If supported, as one can not, a correspondence between the subjective
and objective or between appearance and reality, it is not possible
to deny that the relations of the bodies are constant, this constancy
arises from a need.

But, the current order is found subject to fixed laws, does not prove that they reside in the essence
of things, so that, assuming the existence of objects, their relations have not been very different
than they are today.

[200.] To say that the current order of the universe is intrinsically necessary, would be necessary
know its very essence, and we can not reach that far, because the objects are not present to our
understanding, but immediately, and in one aspect, namely, the which puts them in relation
to our sensory faculties.

The best proof of ignorance in which we are about the essence of bodies, is the great division
in this part has reigned in the schools, arguing about the extent, or dimensions, constituted
the essence of bodies, and others stating that the extension was
nothing more than an accident, not only different from corporeal substance,
but also separable.

The deep darkness that surrounded the issues in question to investigate elements of the corps,
said that these beings are unknown in to its essence, and only know of them, which has no
relation to our sensibilities.

[201.] The aspect under which there is a being, need not contain all
of nature: bodies say that there is only what we feel, is to build
our schools in order of things in themselves: an intolerable pretension
to be experienced at every step the limits of their activity, which
in its relations with the corporeal world is almost always in a passive
disposition, and that when he wants to exercise its powers in foreign
he is obliged to abide by the laws of the external world, on pain
of struggling with obstacles absolutely invincible.

If we ignore the essence of bodies, nothing we can decide on what is intrinsically need in them except
the composition, which appears to us, even in the sensible order,
and we can not strip them without incurring a contradiction.

Simplicity and composition, involving being and nothing, so in the same object is inconsistent.

[202.]
Of these doctrines is inferred that in all things appertaining to the relations of bodies, we must refrain
from judging the point of view whatsoever, and limit the conditional. We can say, 'this happens
now, this has to happen now established according to the order; " but we can not say, "this happens,
and this has to happen for absolute necessity." Transit the first proposition to the second,
is the knowledge that the aspect under which presents us with the outside world, is the image
of its essence, knowledge that no man may have.

[203.] One of the gravest mistakes of Descartes was taking in this dispute: the form the essence
of bodies in dimensions, is to confuse the real world the phenomenal, taking one aspect of things
by their nature. It is true that extension is affecting us, and this is the basis of the relations
of our sensitivity with the external world, but to infer that this world here considered in
its essence, is not more than what is presented in the dimensions,
it's like were taken by the essence of man, the lines that constitute
her figure.

[204.] The diversity of aspects under which it is offered to our senses the external world is
a warning that we must not confuse what it is for all with what has relative. A man deprived
of one sense, it will run, if the world follows has more issues than he perceived, what we know
about the manner in which the objects are presented to the pure spirits,
nor about the many other phases that could offer to our sensibilities?

So let your secrets to nature: no limit omnipotence, stating that the order the world is intrinsically
necessary so that relations can not be present altered without contradiction, and when asked
about the possibility of a new order relations between beings that surnamed bodies, not resolve the
question slightly, by taking only one type of everything, the skinny scope of our powers. What
would we think the blind man who laughed at those who see, to hear them talk about the relationships
of objects as seen.

Such we present ourselves in the eyes of a pure spirit, when we were talking about the impossibility
of a different order than is offered to our sensibilities.

[205.] If we look to the light of this doctrine, the first principles of physical science we'll
see that hold much of parole, because they are only true, on the assumption that the data supplied
are made by experience. If the occupation of a place, if the relationship of places, things are
not essential to the body, it the distances and consequently the movements are made conditional,
in which truth exists only under certain circumstances. Thus all the natural sciences, which
as we have seen, are reduced to calculation of extension and motion, do not penetrate the essence
of things, and are limited to one aspect, which is presented to our experience. By way that in these
sciences there is nothing absolute in all the rigor of the word, and in this part are far away from
metaphysics, which, or does not know anything, or know things absolutely
necessary.

This doctrine has need further clarifications, to be found in Chapters
following.

CHAPTER XXIX.

SOLUTION OF TWO PROBLEMS.

[206.] Theory variables representing the relations of bodies, is not by necessity entails the ruin of
all the natural sciences? Can there be science when there is no object to? can be compatible
with the variability need?

The natural sciences have two parts: a physical and other geometrical: the first involves Data
supplied by the experience, the second form their calculations according
to the same data. Alter the order of the relations of external things,
and the data will be different; we have a new experience which will
be a new physical science: the calculation is the same, but new data
correspond to new results. Behold the faint difficulty. All physical
sciences lie in the observation, all combinations run on data supplied
by observation, then all the physical sciences involve a conditional
part, are not entirely absolute. Don't go planting in
the gully, or some one 'll think you're wanted, and let on to the police. Ride about the country
till I give you the office. Never fear but I'll have word quick enough. Go about and see the
neighbours round just as usual.'

Jim and I was quite stunned by this bit of news; no doubt we was pretty sorry as ever we left
Melbourne, but there was nothing for it now but to follow it out. After all, we were at home,
and it was pleasant to think we wouldn't be hunted for a bit and might ride about the old place
and enjoy ourselves a bit. Aileen was as happy as the day was long, and poor mother used to
lay her head on Jim's neck and cry for joy to have him with her. Even father used to sit in
the front, under the quinces, and smoke his pipe, with old Crib at his feet, most as if he
thought he was happy. I wonder if he ever looked back to the days when he was a farmin' boy
and hadn't took to poaching? He must have been a smart, handy kind of lad, and what a different
look his face must have had then!

We had our own horses in pretty good trim, so we foraged up Aileen's mare, and made it up to
ride over to George Storefield's, and gave him a look-up. He'd been away when we came, and
now we heard he was home.

'George has been doing well all this time, of course,' I said. 'I expect he'll turn squatter
some day and be made a magistrate.'

'Like enough,' says Jim. 'More than one we could pick began lower down than him, and sits on
the Bench and gives coves like us a turn when we're brought up before 'em. Fancy old George
sayin', "Is anything known, constable, of this prisoner's anterseedents?" as I heard old Higgler
say one day at Bargo.'

'Why do you make fun of these things, Jim, dear?' says Aileen, looking so solemn and mournful
like. 'Oughtn't a steady worker to rise in life, and isn't it sad to see cleverer men and better
workers--if they liked--kept down by their own fault?'

'Why wasn't your roan mare born black or chestnut?' says Jim, laughing, and pretending to touch
her up. 'Come along, and let's see if she can trot as well as she used to do?'

'Poor Lowan,' says she, patting the mare's smooth neck (she was a wonderful neat, well-bred,
dark roan, with black points--one of dad's, perhaps, that he'd brought her home one time he
was in special good humour about something. Where she was bred or how, nobody ever knew); 'she
was born pretty and good. How little trouble her life gives her. It's a pity we can't all say
as much, or have as little on our minds.'

'Whose fault's that?' says Jim. 'The dingo must live as well as the collie or the sheep either.
One's been made just the same as the other. I've often watched a dingo turn round twice, and
then pitch himself down in the long grass like as if he was dead. He's not a bad sort, old
dingo, and has a good time of it as long as it lasts.'

'Yes, till he's trapped or shot or poisoned some day, which he always is,' said Aileen bitterly.
'I wonder any man should be content with a wicked life and a shameful death.' And she struck
Lowan with a switch, and spun down the slope of the hill between the trees like a forester-doe
with the hunter-hound behind her.

When we came up with her she was all right again, and tried to smile. Whatever put her out
for the time she always worked things by kindness, and would lead us straight if she could.
Driven, she knew we couldn't be; and I believe she did us about ten times as much good that
way as if she had scolded and raged, or even sneered at us.

When we rode up to Mr. Storefield's farm we were quite agreeable and pleasant again, Jim makin'
believe his horse could walk fastest, and saying that her mare's pace was only a double shuffle
of an amble like Bilbah's, and she declaring that the mare's was a true walk--and so it was.
The mare could do pretty well everything but talk, and all her paces were first-class.

Old Mrs. Storefield was pottering about in the garden with a big sun-bonnet on. She was a great
woman for flowers.

'Come along in, Aileen, my dear,' she said. 'Gracey's in the dairy; she'll be out directly.
George only came home yesterday. Who be these you've got with ye? Why, Dick!' she says, lookin'
again with her sharp, old, gray eyes, 'it's you, boy, is it? Well, you've changed a deal too;
and Jim too. Is he as full of mischief as ever? Well, God bless you, boys, I wish you well!
I wish you well. Come in out of the sun, Aileen; and one of you take the horses up to the stable.
You'll find George there somewhere.'

Aileen had jumped down by this time, and had thrown her rein to Jim, so we rode up to the stable,
and a very good one it was, not long put up, that we could see. How the place had changed,
and how different it was from ours! We remembered the time when their hut wasn't a patch on
ours, when old Isaac Storefield, that had been gardener at Mulgoa to some of the big gentlemen
in the old days, had saved a bit of money and taken up a farm; but bit by bit their place had
been getting better and bigger every year, while ours had stood still and now was going back.

Chapter 15

George Storefield's place, for the old man was dead and all the place belonged to him and Gracey,
quite stunned Jim and me. We'd been away more than a year, and he'd pulled down the old fences
and put up new ones--first-rate work it was too; he was always a dead hand at splitting. Then
there was a big hay-shed, chock-full of good sweet hay and wheat sheaves, and, last of all,
the new stable, with six stalls and a loft above, and racks, all built of ironbark slabs, as
solid and reg'lar as a church, Jim said.

They'd a good six-roomed cottage and a new garden fence ever so long. There were more fruit
trees in the garden and a lot of good draught horses standing about, that looked well, but
as if they'd come off a journey.

The stable door opens, and out comes old George as hearty as ever, but looking full of business.

'Glad to see you, boys,' he says; 'what a time you've been away! Been away myself these three
months with a lot of teams carrying. I've taken greatly to the business lately. I'm just settling
up with my drivers, but put the horses in, there's chaff and corn in the mangers, and I'll
be down in a few minutes. It's well on to dinner-time, I see.'

We took the bridles off and tied up the horses--there was any amount of feed for them--and
strolled down to the cottage again. I do not
think that neither the climate nor the soil, or fertility, or the exuberance of nature and
its products are or have been among us as in India and in ancient Egypt, nor are could never produce
similar effects.

They say other thinkers, who think little, that all our evil comes from the bad governments.
This statement is unworthy of refutation. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not
anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All men,
and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to eat
turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul
lifted to covet. No one not ambitions.

If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest nations.

It
follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean, who
are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all, because we do not spend and spend
without discretion and without splendor.

Suffer from this defect and have traditionally suffered in Spain for individuals and the state.

At
the time of Philip II, when we were at the peak of prosperity, when
dominábamos and despojábamos many regions where

The land yielded
their miners us, His pearls and coral Ocean;

Campanella was astounded
that so much wealth is dissipated without knowing how, and we're always
without real and borrowing.

    "Est, said, admiration dignum, so
    divitiarum consumatur quomodo vis, Ullo sine emolument, cum fere
videamus Regem laborare perpetual destitution, atque etiam ab mutual
ALIIS accipere.

"The same thing happened then between individuals in the State.


Then Aileen laughed, and Jim comes to the rescue and says--

'Dick doesn't remember you, Gracey. You've grown such a swell, too. You can't be the little
girl we used to carry on our backs.'

'Dick remembers very well,' she says, and her very voice was ever so much fuller and softer,
'don't you, Dick?' and she looked into my face as innocent as a child. 'I don't think he could
pull me out of the water and carry me up to the cottage now.'

'You tumble in and we'll try,' says Jim; 'first man to keep you for good--eh, Gracey? It's
fine hot weather, and Aileen shall see fair play.'

'You're just as saucy as ever, Jim,' says she, blushing and smiling. 'I see George coming,
so I must go and fetch in dinner. Aileen's going to help me instead of mother. You must tell
us all about your travels when we sit down.'

When George came in he began to talk to make up for lost time, and told us where he had been--a
long way out in some new back country, just taken up with sheep. He had got a first-rate paying
price for his carriage out, and had brought back and delivered a full load of wool.

'I intend to do it every year for a bit,' he said. 'I can breed and feed a good stamp of draught
horse here. I pay drivers for three waggons and drive the fourth myself. It pays first-rate
so far, and we had very fair feed all the way there and back.'

'Suppose you get a dry season,' I said, 'how will that be?'

'We shall have to carry forage, of course; but then carriage will be higher, and it will come
to the same thing. I don't like being so long away from home; but it pays first-rate, and I
think I see a way to its paying better still.'

'So you've ridden over to show them the way, Aileen,' he said, as the girls came in; 'very
good of you it was. Operations troops
of the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires will give us chances of finding other specimens of this
nature, which has been miraculous check the pacification of these kingdoms, and the mighty hand
of God Almighty wanted to keep under the soft domain of our August Monarch, D. Carlos III, Christians,
the just, the magnanimous and most gracious of Sovereign.

Lost that day the rebels as they had in their camp, they took many mules horses, cattle of all
kinds, furniture, effects, and in particular the food, which had stockpiled for some months: fled
scattered everywhere who escaped from the action, and the army of King, the day he went to the
village of Azangaro, capital of the province this name, which also was empty like the others,
and only found it to Lieutenant the priest, who informed the General had been obliged to consume
the consecrated, profane fearing the rebels, because they had tried many times to take his
life and steal the jewels of the church. Was sent to camp half a league, to take center Paruro
columns and Cotabamba, who had come to that neighborhood two days earlier, and Soon to be learned
from a prisoner who Cristoval Diego Tupac Amaru and his nephews retired with the troops that followed
them, turned away from the town of Puno, after having fought four consecutive days, and that
all the night before and that day, had passed close Paruro column, which was far only the body
of the army as a league. Immediately sent to the Commanding General was informed of the regiment
of Colonel cavalry of Cuzco, Rocafuerte Marquez, who a short time he returned with D. Isidro
Guiasola, his second in command, who commanded since the first one was hurt, D. Manuel of
Castile, and both of them certified to be true because the prisoner had said.

Guisasola reprimanded by the general of his negligence in not having
been part of a new so weighty, apologized to different excuses inconsequential,
which gave enough credit to arrest him and put him in martial, as
rightly deserved, for there was doubt reason, that the tyrant and
his nephews Cristoval Diego achieved the leak, which would still have
surely if the commander and his troops had been completed column monitoring
and activities that were necessary at times so critical.

Do not let it be practiced by some errands for his capture, because they learned news also
for answer, that those rebels had stayed that night at the ranch of one of his confidants, was
far only league and a half from the camp. Left on his follow up 11-1/2 at night Col. dragons,
D. Gabriel de Aviles, a detachment of 200 men, but were useless their errands, and had stayed back
confirming the main rebel in the same place indicated, and that without doubt would have been
arrested if he had pursued the column of Paruro as it should.

At dawn on the day immediately, started the Commanding General, taking the path of Putina, with the
intent to make every effort to meet the chiefs of the rebellion, but That same afternoon he
learned from a prisoner, who followed another direction, and having also varied the next day,
failed to be certified else was useless to follow them, because they retired rapidly to the province
of Carabaya, nearly abandoned all his, and that poorly were followed by 100 persons of both sexes,
but still showing, would not submit to continue rebellion with commitment
and consistency, told the villagers along which, columns were about
to get some lions, tigers and other wild beasts that devour the army
Spanish, getting to these barbaric fantasies, the fools of those unhappy
I believe unfortunate countries and lend a blind obedience.

It also heard the same time, several prisoners who were uniform answer to the General Relations,
the Indians of the provinces of Chucuito Omasuyos and Pacajes, still the site of town of Puno,
and that had reduced to such terms, which was close to surrender.

With this news it was decided, that a detachment of 1,000 cavalry and 2,000 Indians Anta assistants,
in charge of the Army General Staff, D. Francisco Cuellar, to receive up to double shifts
for Carabaya province, not only in order to pursue and seek to arrest the traitors, rather than avail
himself of the Andes, but also for to punish those infamous provinces, which have been among
those who have hated, most stubborn enemies of the Spanish name. Paruro provinces and Chumbivilcas,
continued still in their riots. A highlighted contain D. Manuel Castilla, mayor of the First,
and D. Francisco Laizequilla, chief justice of the second, so that they went without waste
of time to pacify the troops themselves, who served in the military: and Major General with
the rest of his determined aim to Puno with the aim of freeing that
town of conflicts in which they were, and to acquire secure state
news City of Peace, Ponds and other provinces of the Sierra, whose
fate ignored entirely, to have the rebels closed the steps and have
intercepted all communication with them.

Having started with this endeavor Ocalla field that night, in which the proximity Father was found
dead Fray Jose Acuna, religious Order of Santo Domingo, conventual Cuzco, and manager of the
estates that have this religion in those territories. The next day the army continued the march,
and the half hour was seen from a plain dilated the high mountain of Puquina Cancari, almost all
of stone, and so steep that not rise more than a trail so narrow and difficult. As they approached
the van, dragon soldier, who was once the general, warned in a ravine, located front, recognized
as two or three Indians, but some residents believe that would be valley, ignoring the leniency
with which they were treated, had participated in that rough, fear of deserved punishment, he ordered
them not to harm or annoy anyone, and went on to a ayllo, which was about a quarter of a mile:
whose neighbors who would as about 80 of both sexes, went out to meet troops of the King, and kneeled
down in front General, with many tears they asked pardon their crimes.

Condescended to his pleas, and commanding them to present all the sacks of potatoes which he has
to supply the army, I was very little bread, giving it the would be paid in good faith, to
their fair prices in their own presence. At this time, D. José Maria Acuña, commander of the
column Cotabamba, arrived at full gallop to give notice to the General, who had been obliged to
halt the rear, near the mountain where he had just spend the rest of the army, because the
Indians that were in it, had had the audacity to toss and precipitate gauges to the troops, however
their number did not exceed 100 persons of both sexes.

With this notice was for 80 rifle, to punish this daring, indeed unexpected, the sight of the whole
army, and ordered to suspend the march, fell the same General cavalry regiment of Cuzco, to surround
the hill on his lap, and prevent none of those daring escape rebels. But they were far from
being intimidated with immediacy of the troops who were heading to the attack, remained obstinate,
without thinking rather than to die or to defend the post, which dealt with the utmost boldness
and audacity, favored stones both very high, which put them to shed, ignoring offers of forgiveness,
them to an officer Cotabamba troops, whom responded with fury, that before wanted to die than
to be pardoned. Inflamed this barbaric troops resolution, attacked with the greatest ardor, and they
were giving to the crest of the hill, where is it any longer was impossible to escape from the
hands of his opponents, many a desperate party elected of the falling down, plunging from a height
of more than 200 yards to shatter before to surrender, and the remaining asylum sought by the concave
of the rocks, where they made recent efforts to defend, without taking
the least notice of the repeated voices our soldiers shouted, offering
forgiveness again, sorry for the situation where they were.

But nothing was enough to diminish that ferocity, and it was necessary to some of us with evident
danger of their lives looking for, to get them out of deep caves in which they had been, where
they were left to rip, rather than surrender: and there was a rebel, who won the third of the rifle
to the soldier who was chasing him, he struggled boldly with intent to cast him down headlong,
and they have been achieved by the rugged terrain, if not a colleague speedy help. Thus continued
the defense until they died all who had the temerity to undertake it, which fact will be very doubtful,
to those by distance or by the wrong concept that had been so far the Indians of Peru, can not make
a sound mind that despised value their lives, to sustain terrible sedition.

It was already approaching the army near the town of Puno, and for news positive of his situation,
determined the Commanding General to dispatch a self D. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, who commanded
in it, among other precautions, "said he, going to all diligently to help him with powerful forces,
and to advance the state news that was the town of Juliaca. But then the march got in, and found
no the response was not until night, when he was already camped six leagues from distance, where
he became an officer of the garrison of that town, with your response commander, in which she
participated by 12,000 sites still be Indians, who followed the Tupac-Catari flags, those who
fought with more tenacity, and that his troops were tired by the repeated assaults they had
suffered and declined. Moment he had feared perish with all his soldiers and neighbors at the hands
of the besiegers, as they had made efforts to render them by force or by famine, but had gained new
strength, and had the most comfort with the news of the proximity of the troops of King, manifesting
from after the demonstration to give due thanks to the Almighty, for a happiness that not expected,
he told the rebels with a peal of bells and repeated bursts of the artillery and light fittings.
But these, far from feeling the accident, taxes novel by an Indian deserter, had done the same
demonstrations of joy, with their boxes, speakers and repeated revelry, shouting to the besieged,
that the king's army had just arrive, and leave mandated by the Inspector
General of the kingdoms, D. José Antonio Areche, was in his favor
to punish them for the many Indians who had died, and then would verify
Joseph Gabriel Tupac-Amaru had acted under orders of his Majesty,
whose expressions were only the effect of political cunning that the
caudillo Tupac-Catari and their captains had seduced and deceived.

General made the mood to spend that night two miles from Puno, submitted to before their eyes
the next day very early, and having enough time for the operation that you agreed to practice,
and take steps as may be necessary, but at two in the Later he had notice that the rebels had
again assaulted with intent to pass the sword all his defenders, before it received the relief
they expected. Aceleróse progress and At 4 pm they found the army in front of the villa, and
saw the ground General As he had been informed. With the presence of troops stopped the enemy
King action when, retiring to a mountain once, quite high, and the army camp on his lap for being
late, and be very weary soldiers of the march, with resolution to attack the next morning, to which
end she was warned to Orellana, who at the time observations began the attack, would make a departure
to the garrison, to cut off their retreat. When they were taking all measures to verify, came
to camp on Orellana magistrate, accompanied by many officers, and joyfully reported that the
rebels had forsaken his situation that night, and was admitted, it had divided into several
pieces, each following a different direction.

Expressed with the greatest demonstrations of joy thanks, and said it would have retired and
left the village, if the mayor of Arequipa, Baltasar Semanat, I would given the help that he
had been asked to do so without the risk of being intercepted. It also shows the priest D. Casimiro
Rios, a native of Puno, who was imprisoned by the Rebels on the road to Arequipa, drawing his escape
the precipitation with which the rebels had retired. This said, who commanded the army of
the rebels an Indian named Andrea Guara, as Catari general, who to persuade his subjects that
his escape did not result the presence of Spanish troops, led them
to believe the field by be lifted very sick leave to heal his homeland.

In this way the constant freed overlooked defenders of the town of Puno, which therefore time
site had been a stubborn, refusing to attack the rebels from both parties; that is, those harassed
by the Chucuito, which followed the Apas Julian, surnamed Tupac-Catari, under the title of
Viceroy of Tupac-Amaru, and the other of the efforts of Indians in the provinces of Azangaro,
Lampa and Carabaya, which under the orders of different warlords, and even those of Tupac-Amaru
Cristoval Diego, sought with dogged bad record held that town and sacrifice to their fury the
lives of its inhabitants, whose commitment to I encouraged the consideration, that this barrier
removed, is entirely at your disposal dilated those domains, and in them was no longer the King
another city that of Peace, which also saw in his hands, provided they could meet the strength
and espugnacion devote his hard, as they had already begun: graduating this company the only
one they needed to strengthen its tyrannical dominance in every province of the Sierra, as we shall
see later, because now it is necessary to go back some steps to take Since its inception the
site of Puno, and the reasons that forced his Corregidor, D. Antonio
Orellana, to form the project of resisting the rebels in that small
space: resolution moves that just deserves to posterity, in order
that the constancy, loyalty and spirit of the vassal, and others who
accompanied him, as stimuli to imitate an action that is all the more
admirable, as it were not satisfied even the slightest knowledge or
principles art of war.

Reported the atrocity committed by José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru with its mayor, D. Antonio Arriaga,
the provinces and Chumbilvicas Cailloma course had given him obedience, and trying to seize
the other, that of Lampa, D. Vicente Ore, eager to drown in principle the violent fire of rebellion
which began to be experienced as more close to that of ink, issued the corresponding call
on magistrates of Azangaro, Carabaya, Puno, Chucuito, Arequipa and La Paz, for one to help with the
attempt to all the efforts that were possible, and to dispel the ideas of rebellion. Together,
thus the forces in the capital of Lampa, and appointed commander
of all D. Francisco Davila officer who had been a Marine, was discussed
that D. Antonio de Orellana march with his men the people of Ayabirí
to reinforce that important since it is reputed as a border: but at
the two-day retreat was ordered, along with 100 men but which led
his orders, as indeed verified, restoring again to Lampa.

At the same time escaped the same Order to Colonel Azangaro militia, and Lieutenant Colonel Lampa
those that occupied him with some troops from their respective provinces, but these represented, giving
some considerations to support his opinion remain in it. Notwithstanding the foregoing by those officers,
realizing that it was absolutely forces necessary to collect a point to act in concert, and
with free of them, they repeated the orders that without loss of time practicing than previously
had ordered them but when they received was so near the enemy, who could not check withdrawal without
confusion, many falling into the hands of the rebel, and juntándosele others either with the
vile idea of ​​following his infamous flag, or to ensure their maximum, trusting in the offers that
had published.

This event shocked no little courage, and determined to put together a council of war, resolve what
was to egecutar, considering the situation in which they were, and benefits collected by the rebel
Sangarara and other places, and he had also fallen in Ayabirí hands, the greater part of gunpowder
and bullets that had been stockpiled for defense. The Colonel and Lieutenant Colonel of the
regiment of militia cavalry did Lampa also present on this occasion, that its militants were also
suspected by the effect had caused in their hearts the artificial lure of the promises of the usurper;
and met all these circumstances, it was the party to withdraw the people of Cavanillas what is
not practiced, owing to the aforementioned militias would not meet, either espressi the grounds, or
because, possessed of fear, obey disgusted that provision, and implemented
only those Chucuito Paucarcolla and led by their mayors, Orellana
and Moya, who came to Lampa, Carabaya Azangaro and the people above,
from where they came from the last three for the city of Arequipa,
requesting the help that Ore had asked beforehand, and the first two
returned to their respective provinces militia troops with them, where
they remained some time with the resolution to defend: but knowing
that Tupac Amaru was the capital of Lampa, suspicious of the Chucuito
movement of its provinces, which were already very restless, retired
to Arequipa, and even Orellana.

Harassed by the cries of neighbors who wanted to save their lives and property, was compelled to
seek a safe haven, to 12 miles away from that town, and wait with less shock that I had requested relief,
accompanied only by the few who were fully determined to continue, hereby removing the occasion
those provinces that may attempt to redeem their interests pardon suspicious, with the attempt
to arrest him, for delivery after the leader of the rebellion as requested.

Verified its determination on December 11, 1780, after being released by the way, Joseph Gabriel
Lampa had gone through, and that his army was heading to long hours towards Puno. Command before
carrying it out, bring all neighbors who stayed, and encouraging their expressions as he could,
he hastily called it bore the highest fidelity to our rightful Sovereign, and to guard against
sedition and deceptions of the tyrant, and they left secured the few weapons they had, so it does
not take possession of them the enemy, left without waste of time towards the Sierra, where it remained
until acquired news, that after of many ravages and outrages committed in the Province of
Lampa, and left secretly order to their own provinces, to burn it and surrender it, had fallen
unexpectedly to the provinces of the viceroyalty of Lima, with the troops that followed him,
thinking they would be and such other serious reasons, that slowed the relief they had asked
the magistrates Peace and Arequipa, and to restore the obedience due the nine provinces had embraced
the infamous party rebel, determined to pass in person to Arequipa, to overheating instances, to
ensure that aid as he had requested.
 There wasn't a cloud in the sky; it was safe to be a roasting hot day, but it was cool
then. The little waterhole where we learned to swim when we were boys was deep on one side
and had a rocky ledge to jump off. The birds just began to give out a note or two; the sun
was rising clear and bright, and we could see the dark top of Nulla Mountain getting a sort
of rose colour against the sky.

'George and Gracey 'll be over soon after breakfast,' I said; 'we must have everything look
ship-shape as well as we can before they turn up.'

'The horses may as well go down to the flat,' Jim says; 'we can catch them easy enough in time
to ride back part of the way with them. I'll run up Lowan, and give her a bit of hay in the
calf-pen.'

We went over to the yard, and Jim let down the rails and walked in. I stopped outside. Jim
had his horse by the mane, and was patting his neck as mine came out, when three police troopers
rose up from behind the bushes, and covering us with their rifles called out, 'Stand, in the
Queen's name!'

Jim made one spring on to his horse's back, drove his heels into his flank, and was out through
the gate and half-way down the hill before you could wink.

Just as Jim cleared the gate a tall man rose up close behind me and took a cool pot at him
with a revolver. I saw Jim's hat fly off, and another bullet grazed his horse's hip. I saw
the hair fly, and the horse make a plunge that would have unseated most men with no saddle
between their legs. But Jim sat close and steady and only threw up his arm and gave a shout
as the old horse tore down the hill a few miles an hour faster.

'D--n those cartridges,' said the tall trooper; 'they always put too much powder in them for
close shooting. Now, Dick Marston!' he went on, putting his revolver to my head, 'I'd rather
not blow your brains out before your people, but if you don't put up your hands by----I'll
shoot you where you stand.' I had been staring after Jim all the time; I believe I had never
thought of myself till he was safe away.

'Get your horses, you d----d fools,' he shouts out to the men, 'and see if you can follow up
that madman. He's most likely knocked off against a tree by this time.'

There was nothing else for it but to do it and be handcuffed. As the steel locks snapped I
saw mother standing below wringing her hands, and Aileen trying to get her into the house.

'Better come down and get your coat on, Dick,' said the senior constable. 'We want to search
the place, too. By Jove! we shall get pepper from Sir Ferdinand when we go in. I thought we
had you both as safe as chickens in a coop. Who would have thought of Jim givin' us the slip,
on a barebacked horse, without so much as a halter? I'm devilish sorry for your family; but
if nothing less than a thousand head of cattle will satisfy people, they must expect trouble
to come of it.'

'What are you talking about?' I said. 'You've got the wrong story and the wrong men.'

'All right; we'll see about that. I don't know whether you want any breakfast, but I should
like a cup of tea. It's deuced slow work watching all night, though it isn't cold. We've got
to be in Bargo barracks to-night, so there's no time to lose.'

It was all over now--the worst HAD come. What fools we had been not to take the old man's advice,
and clear out when he did. He was safe in the Hollow, and would chuckle to himself--and be
sorry, too--when he heard of my being taken, and perhaps Jim. The odds were he might be smashed
against a tree, perhaps killed, at the pace he was going on a horse he could not guide.

They searched the house, but the money they didn't get. Jim and I had taken care of that, in
case of accidents. Mother sat rocking herself backwards and forwards, every now and then crying
out in a pitiful way, like the women in her country do, I've heard tell, when some one of their
people is dead; 'keening', I think they call it. Well, Jim and I were as good as dead. If the
troopers had shot the pair of us there and then, same as bushmen told us the black police did
their prisoners when they gave 'em any trouble, it would have been better for everybody. However,
people don't die all at once when they go to the bad, and take to stealing or drinking, or
any of the devil's favourite traps. Pity they don't, and have done with it once and for all.

I know I thought so when I was forced to stand there with my hands chained together for the
first time in my life (though I'd worked for it, I know that); and to see Aileen walking about
laying the cloth for breakfast like a dead woman, and know what was in her mind.

The troopers were civil enough, and Goring, the senior constable, tried to comfort them as
much as he could. He knew it was no fault of theirs; and though he said he meant to have Jim
if mortal men and horses could do it he thought he had a fair chance of getting away. 'He's
sure to be caught in the long run, though,' he went on to say. 'There's a warrant out for him,
and a description in every "Police Gazette" in the colonies. My advice to him would be to come
back and give himself up. It's not a hanging matter, and as it's the first time you've been
fitted, Dick, the judge, as like as not, will let you off with a light sentence.'

So they talked away until they had finished their breakfast. I couldn't touch a mouthful for
the life of me, and as soon as it was all over they ran up my horse and put the saddle on.
But I wasn't to ride him. No fear! Goring put me on an old screw of a troop horse, with one
leg like a gate-post. I was helped up and my legs tied under his belly. Then one of the men
took the bridle and led me away. Goring rode in front and the other men behind.

As we rose the hill above the place I looked back and saw mother drop down on the ground in
a kind of fit, while Aileen bent over her and seemed to be loosening her dress. Just at that
moment George Storefield and his sister rode up to the door. George jumped off and rushed over
to Aileen and mother. I knew Gracey had seen me, for she sat on her horse as if she had been
turned to stone, and let her reins drop on his neck. Strange things have happened to me since,
but I shall never forget that to the last day of my miserable life.

Chapter 17

I wasn't in the humour for talking, but sometimes anything's better than one's own thoughts.
Goring threw in a word from time to time. He'd only lately come into our district, and was
sure to be promoted, everybody said. Like Starlight himself, he'd seen better days at home
in England; but when he got pinched he'd taken the right turn and not the wrong one, which
makes all the difference. He was earning his bread honest, anyway, and he was a chap as liked
the fun and dash of a mounted policeman's life. As for the risk--and there is some danger,
more than people thinks, now and then--he liked that the best of it. He was put out at losing
Jim; but he believed he couldn't escape, and told me so in a friendly way. 'He's inside a circle
and he can't get away, you mark my words,' he said, two or three times. 'We have every police-station
warned by wire, within a hundred miles of here, three days ago. There's not a man in the colony
sharper looked after than Master Jim is this minute.'

'Then you only heard about us three days ago?' I said.

'That's as it may be,' he answered, biting his lip. 'Anyhow, there isn't a shepherd's hut within
miles that he can get to without our knowing it. The country's rough, but there's word gone
for a black tracker to go down. The Director of cigars, D. Francisco de Paula Sanz, sugeto adorned with the best circumstances
and qualities, was in town by chance, and as a result of the commission I was under his charge
for the establishment of this branch moved from its spirit bizarre and tired of the contemplations
that were used with the rebels wanted to attack them with their dependent and some neighbors who loved
him, and leaving the city with this attempt, day 16 February, 1781 arrived at the foot of
the hills of the Punilla, they were housed Indians, who fell immediately to try to present
the fight, believing that the small number who opposed them, assured of his party maturity. Bore
so much violence and many that little piece, which consisted of 40 men alone, not enough value
for the resistance, and yielding to the increased number and force, was necessary to think
the withdrawal, which had all perished by the disorder are that the egecutaron, unless it have come
to hold the company of grenadiers militants, unable to prevent lost life in the fray D. Francisco
Revilla, and two riot police who accompanied him in his unfortunate Luckily, it came after Flores
although the largest number of people served little diligence, for entering the night.

The gentle and natural genius please the Director Sanz, accompanied
by his generosity, made him esteemed of all, less than Flores, who
had had some trouble for the different thinking.

Sanz, everything was fire to punish the insolence of the rebels, and Flores, phlegm all circumspection
and contemplate, whose conduct, mormurada usually caused lampoons denigrating his honor, called
a coward, daring to say, he was affectionately part of the rebellion, and reached both the boldness
of the public who expressed their feelings and rude satirical verses with meanings, sent home
the same night of the attack of 16, a portion of chicken, not knowing who had been the author
of this untimely gift. The next day the neighbors were submitted in writing, stating they were
ready and willing to go after the enemy. Cried all anticipated his last wreck, cried openly, that
failure led them to attack, would come out without the Commander, and as required of so effective
as repeated suggestions that increased with the unfortunate event of the Director, determined for
20 of the February attack the Indians Punilla. Would be at 12 that day, when our troops launched,
and arriving at the field was presented to Commanding a pretty sight, which he announced the
victory, and it was recognized that a growing number of wives, mixed and confused among the troops,
he wished to go forward in function: this rare phenomenon, as flattered the taste, drew tears
from that chief, who egercitó all ability to deter dangerous falls short of effort, with which
only had already achieved immortal glory, and though they eased the burning, could never achieve
withdraw, and remained in the battlefield, or to inspire their presence encouragement to the soldiers,
or to serve any hardship relief.

Two in the afternoon when touched to attack the enemy, who was stationed in the heights of three
rough and craggy mountains, which lead to dangerous to climb: but this difficulty pawned the
value of our people, who were so eager to come to blows, and pursued
with heroic courage, the Indians soon suffered the assault, winning
gracefully the tops of those steep hills, taking with the edges of
the sword to all that did not withdraw his escape leaving the battlefield
400 bodies, with little or no loss on our part, and its free result
of the blockade the city in such a short space of time, he could say
with Major General Julius Caesar - Veni, vidi, vinci.

Solemnized this festive cheers of victory live the King, and illuminating the city for three
nights surrendered to the All-Mighty due thanks, demonstrating the joy with all those attesting
signs with love, sincerity of affection. This destruction of the enemy brought several favorable
consequences, and would have been greater if he had advance action: scared because Chayanta province,
deposed any concerns, and to check their repentance, delivered to the chief perpetrators were
Damaso and Nicolas Catari, Santos Hachu, Simon Castillo and several others who all died in three
styles: that this mockery of Divine Providence hopes of offenders, providing fall into the hands
of justice, when creating but exempt from its rigor.

This fact shows how convenient it was to win the moment, and work with activity against insurgents,
taking the consternation in which they were by the happy event the Punilla, rather than lay down
their espunto: for suspicion and distrust of the Commander, and more political than military,
made him see a slow detrimental to the cause public. And faltered in a sea of ​​doubt, spent the time
doing prejudices, with which conceal their management, which could have changed with repeated
tests of loyalty and bravery he had given the residents of La Plata, who just have complained
about the concept earned him, because he felt they were unable to sustain offensive operations
in the field open without the help of veterans who were expected:
it should not be tempted this circumstance, because something has
to venture into extremes cases in which no-show another resource.

These arrests led to not a few evils, particularly in the provinces chicha and Lipes, who
rose up after that event, because they met the superiority they had, and they manifested such
behavior, and were not very formidable Commander and weapons that were in the city of La Plata,
where winning even after they were satisfied to return to closed in terms of its premises, without
thinking about the remedy of the disasters Agen: to contribute also to have followed the same
system, the imperial town of Potosí, who believed so filled with duty to shield their precious mines.

When
I was to be held at the home of Commander, D. Ignacio Flores, with a banquet, great success
of the action of Punilla, received the sad news of the horrifying fact occurred in the town
of Oruro, which is dismayed by the spirits of all the guests, and filled with bitterness,
despite becoming the pleasure that had prevented. And as one of the most notable occurrences
of this general uprising, it can be unpleasant relates to extension, and all the circumstances
requiring an event of this nature.

The origin, therefore, and the causes of this tragedy funestísima were been reported in that villa
fatalities occurred in the provinces of Chayanta and Ink, with an edict issued José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru,
in which expressive of all its cruel and ambitious intentions: what, arrived at news of the mayor,
D. Ramon de Urrutia, along with causing extragear in the provinces
of Lampa and Carabaya, determined to prevent him for any event.

Companies formed the cholos and neighbors, to discipline in the handling of weapons, allocating
different sites for teaching, which he visited twice weekly, and learned like the doctrine of their
masters: some certainly did not approve such a measure, or because were addicted to the main
rebel Tupac Amaru, whose coming were eager, or more likely, because they were his confidants.
They were attending only those that act to emulate they taught, they were Europeans, and to
form various criticisms about its operations, the while fixed insolently
opposed to the crown placards, denouncing the government the mayor
and other judges.

Among them one day dawned December 25, 1780, in announcing the murder, that after egecutaron with
Europeans, and conduct Zaheri D. Fernando Gurruchaga, ordinary Mayor, who had that year with denigrating
insults his person, and justice. It also prevented individuals from the Cabildo, refrain European
Mayors choice, because if this was happening, would not last eight days, it would rise and would
be a victim of his anger, being thieves, and that to avoid such a disastrous event, had to name just
Mayors Don Juan de Dios and Don Jacinto Rodriguez.

The Corregidor, careful with these public threats and insolent pretensions: he acted vigilante
pesquiza in the investigation and the authors, but more accurate measures and judicial as practiced
extrajudicial, could never know the truth to punish offenders, In order to keep everyone quiet
and good harmony, from always tended income to his district.

Come election day, by the year 1781, proposed to appoint the members sugetos meritorious and
honest, of good character and who love justice, so that they could charges play correctly, with
the maturity and trial prescribed by law, and required the critical circumstances in which the
kingdom was. To this end they proposed to D. José Miguel Llano and Valdez, Patricia, D. Joaquin Rubis
de Celis, and D. Manuel de Mugrusa, Europeans, with a view of the rod to come out of the house of
Rodriguez, who pretended it hereditary, and that neither they nor any of its partial and domestic,
were chosen because they made Sugetos 18 years that these were possessed
of those jobs, never allowing others were appointed by the unbridled
ambition of government that ruled them, and also for avoid injustice
and violence estorsiones, titled egecutaban judges in all class of
people, valid from unlimited despotism which had acquired, which protected
all sorts of vices, which vitiated their dependents and servants.

Rodriguez this transcended by the idea, prevented some changes and differences to the election day,
however prevailed in favor of justice, and left elected those proposed by the Mayor, who loathed
cruelly Rodriguez, the dissimilarity customs and birth and not being
able to hide the poison that locked their hearts, to see they had
taken the command, as so many years had usurped, took their mask to
be seen to clearly senses against him.

D. Jacinto was to die for with vomiting that caused the anger of the snub, and D. John left the
village for his wit haste, leaving at home warned that none of their customers come out to the
runs bulls, who regularly held to mark the new Mayors to the public, or that he These lend them
anything they desired used for soft drinks. In this day began to discover the league that
he had formed with them the priest of the parish church. It happened then that was the custom
from time immemorial, which finished the election, and confirmed by the mayor in the chapter house,
spent all of the major church council to hear the Mass of Thanksgiving, lobbyists went to the pia
demonstration, but being as to the church doors, went to meet the sacristan to say that there
was no mass, because none had given alms.

Things were in this critical state, when the news of the death of Tomas Catari; and believing
the mayor of Paria, D. Manuel Winery, which removed this seditious
disturber of the public tranquility, it would be easy sugetar the
province, collecting taxes and real distribution, determined to go
into it with weapons and people.

Asked for this to help you with Urrutia soldiers, who denied, preventing consequences could
not be good: but evil Bodega recommended, gathered 50 men, paid at his expense, and set off to
the people of Challapata but where he and his companions, paid with his life Thin determination.

With this, the Indians were persuaded Challapata, Condo, poop and other towns immediate, the
mayor of Oruro to the Paria had assisted with weapons and people to punish, from that day
threatened the town and the mayor, protesting desolate, and kill them all its inhabitants. Agregóse
to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos at that time was as chaplain on the
plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping his malicious plan, said he had heard
that the Indians were ready to Challapata Oruro to invade, and that the main reason that impelled
them was to know that daily egercicio therefore considered appropriate to be suspended, for
without more care than this, sosegarian are the spirits of those rebels because of his resentment only
nacia that provision. The mayor, and was not given assent to the notices that religious, or
because they penetrate the interior, did not alter his measures, that were born smoothly continuous
and care, because, resentful of this, did not stop in front dire news spread that moments threatened
by the insult offered by the surrounding Indians.

In this conflict be doubted that the means should be chosen: there were no weapons or ammunition;
hacíanse public councils and secrets, nothing is resolved for lack of money in the box of their
own, or to put it more property, no such case, because many years ago had taken possession
of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez. Nor could go to the royal treasury, because he resisted
the officers, optional claiming not to be drawn amount, without order expresses the superiority;
and last resort, it was thought that the neighbors contribute with a donation, nor took effect,
the extreme poverty in which they were.

In these troubles manifested the zeal of D. Treasurer Salvador Parrilla, giving 2,000 pesos
in cash for their own interests, to that the militia were quartered, and ammunition were prevented in
the meantime was given party to the hearing, to deliberate what they had fit. With this amount
was begun preparations, they stood at 300 salary men were named captains and other officers, to
the service: D. Manuel Serrano, formed a company of the most infamous mob of people, and appointed
his lieutenant Don Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, that was after one of the most outstanding
in this tragic scene.

And the troops quartered, many dissensions arose due to the low subordination of soldiers,
no official law on the supply of the Prest said, and other reasons, that originated, but by the
disposition of the spirits, that the grounds grievances.

Day 9, at ten o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks of the company Serrano crying
out for relief to others, and asked the cause, said aloud Sebastian Payer: - "Friends, countrymen
and peers, be certain that you try the most treacherous betrayal against us by the escutcheons:
comunicárseme this news just for my daughter in any Sometimes we can best provide clear evidence
of our love of country, but in this: do not deem in all our lives, sacrifiquémoslas happy to defend
freedom, converting all humility and performance, we have had with the Spanish Europeans, anger
and wrath, and end up once with this damn race. "They immediately spread throughout the town this
reasoning, and motion in militia companies that were not neglecting D. Nicolas Herrera stoke
the fire, telling everywhere with more vivid colors, his malicious intent might suggest, the
conspiracy of the Europeans.

Paying Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez, and in that Today
went to them in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where this was coming down drunk, badly that
commonly suffered. Among other productions of drunkenness, came up with the nonsense that the
mayor wanted him hanged, together with his brothers, Don Manuel Herrera
and others neighbors.

The heat of chicha, which had altered the payer, it did facilitate the murder that after egecutaron,
treating it with D. Nicolas de Herrera, often processed sugeto a thief and robber public.
In that no one was satisfied that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some of his wicked companions
were deposited many bars and bags of silver coin in the face of D.
José Endeiza, whom he considered more of 50.000 pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to his table many friends, too wealthy, and agreed that both
were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his wealth to live in the house where
he was staying. The flow dam so large was the main origin of this unfortunate event. D. Nicolas
Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published in all Paying over the reasoning,
and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D. Casimiro Delgado, who at the time was playing
with D. Manuel Amezaga, Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo, the Order of San Agustin. They
were all thrown to the novelty, and resolved to go to warn the militia that threatened misfortune:
determination, indeed, improper sugetos those, and has many overtones of seditious, because without
thinking of consequences went to the barracks, called Captain D. Bartolomè Menacho and to others,
and gave notice of what they knew, making prevention of to beware. With this and the voice of
treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had spread throughout
the town, came flooding troops to the barracks, mothers, wives and
sisters of those who were quartered, about wearing weapons to defend
himself and others with the most tender voices, asked with tears dejasen
the recess.

To this he added the soldiers, incited by Payer, were persuaded it was true the conspiracy: some
claimed that the mayor had prevented a mine to blow them suddenly, others shouted that they
had no doubt, because he had Arrimadas stairs suddenly rob the yard of his home. All was confusion,
disorder and confusion without any basis, for the wickedness of these and other tantalizing spices
invented seditious to shake things down. In this line spent the night in continuous shock, and
said the day after 10, abandoned the barracks: one addressed to his houses, and others gathered
by Payer, presented to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting that as his Lieutenant Colonel debian communicate
what is premeditated against them, they were ready to obey blindly, thus giving a misleading
diagnostic test of the subordination he had, who, upon hearing the complaints, he told them
not to return to the barracks, and remaining with some confidence, secretly warned them rioted
that night, and they said the manner in which it had to practice.

Had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos, the Order of St. Francisco,
under the pretext of liberating some soldiers who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, the who were
hiding in priest's house, but his real purpose was to convene the the Indians for that day. D.
In the same distributed Jacinto to its black, and some of its raised by the rooms and people
immediately, for with the help of these, bending forces and make his attempt, mounted his horse,
went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together with all Indians, mulattos and mestizos, who worked
in them and gave them orders that precisely go down by the Cerro de Conchopata to the town after nightfall.
 One brand, he said, was like a long-handled shovel. It turned
out to be--D. [*] TD--Tom Dawson's, of Mungeree. About a hundred of his were in the mob. They
had drawn back for Mungeree, as was nearly all frontage and cold in the winter. He was the
worst witness for us of the lot, very near. He'd noticed everything and forgot nothing.

     * In the original text, the horizontal bar is represented by
     a capital "I" rotated 90 degrees, and a bit lower than
     centre--but from the description, '--D' may be better, where
     the '--' represents the upright of the T in TD.--A. L.,
     1997.--

'Do you recognise either of the prisoners in the dock?' he was asked.

'Yes; both of 'em,' says he. I wish I could have got at him. 'I see the swell chap first--him
as made out he was the owner, and gammoned all the Adelaide gentlemen so neat. There was a
half-caste chap with him as followed him about everywhere; then there was another man as didn't
talk much, but seemed, by letting down sliprails and what not, to be in it. I heard this Starlight,
as he calls hisself now, say to him, "You have everything ready to break camp by ten o'clock,
and I'll be there to-morrow and square up." I thought he meant to pay their wages. I never
dropped but what they was his men--his hired servants--as he was going to pay off or send back.'

'Will you swear,' our lawyer says, 'that the younger prisoner is the man you saw at Adelaide
with the cattle?'

'Yes; I'll swear. I looked at him pretty sharp, and nothing ain't likely to make me forget
him. He's the man, and that I'll swear to.'

'Were there not other people there with the cattle?'

'Yes; there was an oldish, very quiet, but determined-like man--he had a stunnin' dorg with
him--and a young man something like this gentleman--I mean the prisoner. I didn't see the other
young man nor the half-caste in court.'

'That's all very well,' says our lawyer, very fierce; 'but will you swear, sir, that the prisoner
Marston took any charge or ownership of the cattle?'

'No, I can't,' says the chap. 'I see him a drafting 'em in the morning, and he seemed to know
all the brands, and so on; but he done no more than I've seen hired servants do over and over
again.'

The other witnesses had done, when some one called out, 'Herbert Falkland,' and Mr. Falkland
steps into the court. He walks in quiet and a little proud; he couldn't help feeling it, but
he didn't show it in his ways and talk, as little as any man I ever saw.

He's asked by the Crown Prosecutor if he's seen the bull outside of the court this day.

'Yes; he has seen him.'

'Has he ever seen him before?'

'Never, to his knowledge.'

'He doesn't, then, know the name of his former owner?'

'Has heard generally that he belonged to Mr. Hood, of Momberah; but does not know it of his
own knowledge.'

'Has he ever seen, or does he know either of the prisoners?'

'Knows the younger prisoner, who has been in the habit of working for him in various ways.'

'When was prisoner Marston working for him last?'

'He, with his brother James, who rendered his family a service he shall never forget, was working
for him, after last shearing, for some months.'

'Where were they working?'

'At an out-station at the back of the run.'

'When did they leave?'

'About April or May last.'

'Was it known to you in what direction they proceeded after leaving your service?'

'I have no personal knowledge; I should think it improper to quote hearsay.'

'Had they been settled up with for their former work?'

'No, there was a balance due to them.'

'To what amount?'

'About twenty pounds each was owing.'

'Did you not think it curious that ordinary labourers should leave so large a sum in your hands?'

'It struck me as unusual, but I did not attach much weight to the circumstance. I thought they
would come back and ask for it before the next shearing. I am heartily sorry that they did
not do so, and regret still more deeply that two young men worthy of a better fate should have
been arraigned on such a charge.'

'One moment, Mr. Falkland,' says our counsel, as they call them, and a first-rate counsellor
ours was. If we'd been as innocent as two schoolgirls he couldn't have done more for us. 'Did
the prisoner Marston work well and conduct himself properly while in your employ?'

'No man better,' says Mr. Falkland, looking over to me with that pitying kind of look in his
eyes as made me feel what a fool and rogue I'd been ten times worse than anything else. 'No
man better; he and his brother were in many respects, according to my overseer's report, the
most hard-working and best-conducted labourers in the establishment.'

Chapter 18

Mr. Runnimall, the auctioneer, swore that the older prisoner placed certain cattle in his hands,
to arrive, for sale in the usual way, stating that his name was Mr. Charles Carisforth, and
that he had several stations in other colonies. Had no reason for doubting him. Prisoner was
then very well dressed, was gentlemanly in his manners, and came to his office with a young
gentleman of property whom he knew well. The cattle were sold in the usual way for rather high
prices, as the market was good. The proceeds in cash were paid over to the prisoner, whom he
now knew by the name of Starlight. He accounted for there being an unusual number of brands
by saying publicly at the sale that the station had been used as a depot for other runs of
his, and the remainder lots of store cattle kept there.

He had seen a short-horn bull outside of the court this day branded 'J-E' on the shoulder.
He identified him as one of the cattle placed in his hands for sale by the prisoner Starlight.
He sold and delivered him according to instructions. He subsequently handed over the proceeds
to the said prisoner. He included the purchase money in a cheque given for the bull and other
cattle sold on that day. He could swear positively to the bull; he was a remarkable animal.
He had not the slightest doubt as to his identity.

'Had he seen the prisoner Marston when the cattle were sold now alleged to belong to Mr. Hood?'

'Yes; he was confident that prisoner was there with some other men whom he (witness) did not
particularly remark. He helped to draft the cattle, and to put them in pens on the morning
of the sale.'

'Was he prepared to swear that prisoner Marston was not a hired servant of prisoner Starlight?'

'No; he could not swear. He had no way of knowing what the relations were between the two.
They were both in the robbery; he could see that.'

'How could you see that?' said our lawyer. 'Have you never seen a paid stockman do all that
you saw prisoner Marston do?'

'Well, I have; but somehow I fancy this man was different.'

'We have nothing to do with your fancies, sir,' says our man, mighty hot, as he turns upon
him; 'you are here to give evidence as to facts, not as to what you fancy. Have you any other
grounds for connecting prisoner Marston with the robbery in question?'

'No, he had not.'

'You can go down, sir, and I only wish you may live to experience some of the feelings which
fill the breasts of persons who are unjustly convicted.'

    .   .   .   .   .

This about ended the trial. There was quite enough proved for a moderate dose of transportation.
A quiet, oldish-looking man got up now and came forward to the witness-box. I didn't know who
he was; but Starlight nodded to him quite pleasant. He had a short, close-trimmed beard, and
was one of those nothing-particular-looking old chaps. I'm blessed if I could have told what
he was. He might have been a merchant, or a squatter, or a head clerk, or a wine merchant,
or a broker, or lived in the town, or lived in the country; any of half-a-dozen trades would
suit him. The only thing that was out of the common was his eyes. They had a sort of curious
way of looking at you, as if he wondered whether you was speaking true, and yet seein' nothing
and tellin' nothing. He regular took in Starlight (he told me afterwards) by always talking
about the China Seas; he'd been there, it seems; he'd been everywhere; he'd last come from
America; he didn't say he'd gone there to collar a clerk that had run off with two or three
thousand pounds, and to be ready to meet him as he stepped ashore.

Anyhow he'd watched Starlight in Canterbury when he was riding and flashing about, and had
put such a lot of things together that he took a passage in the same boat with him to Melbourne.
Why didn't he arrest him in New Zealand? Because he wasn't sure of his man. It was from something
Starlight let out on board ship. He told me himself afterwards that he made sure of his being
the man he wanted; so he steps into the witness-box, very quiet and respectable-looking, with
his white waistcoat and silk coat--it was hot enough to fry beefsteaks on the roof of the courthouse
that day--and looks about him. Needs modern trade
forced the monopolists of one of the first wines of the world to intervene in these intrigues
and combinations, which were with the cognac's main export of the house. At the bottom of the cellar
was the fourth shipment of references, "the library house, "as Montenegro. A shelf units with glass
doors kept aligned in compact rows thousands and thousands of small bottles, carefully covered,
each with its label in the States has a date. This agglomeration of the bottle was like history
business of the house. Each bottle bore the sign of a consignment, the reference of a liquid constructed
in accordance with the wishes of the consumer. To repeat the consignment was not the customer
rather than remember the date, and the manager of the references sought the sample, developing
new liquid.

The shipping warehouse contained four thousand different wines to boot combinations. In a room
dark, no other light than a berth sealed with a red glass was the camera obscura. There the
technical review, the light beam through the glass of wine newly opened barrel.

According to the references or the letter sent from the desktop, combined with the new wine various
liquids and then marked with clarion on the faces of the number of barrels jars that had to
be extracted from each to form the mixture. The cast aside, guys went sturdy, body shirt, sleeves
rolled up and the wide black belt snugly to the kidneys, going from side to side with metal jars,
wine racked to barrel combination new shipment.

Montenegro had known since childhood to winemaker shipping. It was used more old home. He had
glimpsed as a child the first Dupont, founder of the establishment. The second had been treated as a
partner, and the current chief, Dupont Young had had on their arms and joined the familiarity
of paternal confidence he inspired fear Don Pablo with his imperious character of the owner
to old style.

It was an old man who seemed swollen by the atmosphere of the winery. Your skin, furrowed by
wrinkles, had the brightness of eternal moisture, as if the wine
vanished penetrated by all pores and runs off the edge of his mustache
in tears.

Isolated in his cellar, bound to silence by the long confinement in
the dark room, I felt itching to talk when there was any desktop,
especially Montenegro, that, as he could be a son of the house.

-
What about your father? - Fermín asked .-- Whenever in the vineyard,
huh?

... There is better than this damp cave. For sure I will live longer.

And look at the role offered Montenegro, made a face of disgust.

- Another job out! - Ironically exclaimed .-- Wine combined for shipping! ... Well go business,
Mr. God. We used the first home of the world, unique, our wines and our country's screeds.
Now we make concoctions, wine foreigners, Wood, Port, Marsala, or imitate the Tintillo of
Rota and Malaga. And for this God farming wines of Jerez and strengthens our vineyards! To
deny our name ... Come I feel a desire for an end to phylloxera for not holding back any more
fakes and lies!

...

Montenegro knew the quirks of the old. Not had a packing list that burst in curses against the decline
of the wines of Jerez.

- You have not reached the proper time, Ferminillo - continued, - why take things so composure.
You are from the modern, who believe that things are going well because we sell cognac much
as any house of foreign countries, whose vineyards produce only crap, God grant without the slightest
semblance to Jerez ... Tell me, you who have run world, where have you seen our Palomino grape,
nor of vintages, or the battery Mantua, or the Cañocaso, neither canine nor the Pedro Ximenez? ...
What have you to see! It is only breeding earth is a gift from God ... and, as rich, cognac or
wine manufacture of imitation because Jerez, Jerez true is no longer fashionable, say these gentlemen
from abroad! Here are just warehouses.

These are liquor stores, drugstores, anything but what they were
in another time and come on, that makes me want to fly away never
to return, when you present with these confetti, asking me to do another
fake.

The old man heard indignant responses Fermín.

- These are requirements of modern commerce, Mr Vincent, have changed business and pleasure
the public.

- Well, do not drink, porra!, Leave us alone, without requiring them to dress our wines, will
keep them safely stored for they age, and I am sure someday we will look for justice coming to
its knees ... This has changed a lot. The England must be lost. No need to tell me, too I
see it getting here visits. Before British came under the winery, but the passengers were
people of distinction: Lords and Lords, the lowest. Gave glory to see how air apimplaban lordship.
Cup from here, to place an order! Cup there to compare!, And so went to the winery, serious as
priests, until the output had to lie on the buggy to take them to the inn. Know and do justice
to taste good ... Now, when playing in Cadiz boat English, arrive in droves, with a guide at the front,
prove anything because there is free and, if buy something, they are content with bottles
of three pesetas.

Do not know drunk with nobility: shouting, arm brawl and go staggering
down the street to the lads laugh.

I thought before all the English were rich, and it turns out this gang are traveling in any
thing, cobblers or London shopkeepers to take the air out the savings of the year ... So leave
the business.

Montenegro smiled listening to incoherent lamentations of the old.

- Furthermore - continued the grocer - in England, as here, the customs are lost old. Many English
people do not drink more than water, and, as I have said, it is not elegant after eating, the ladies
are going to talk to a room, while men remain drinking up the servants to take the trouble to remove
them from under the table. They no longer need evening as a nightcap, a couple of bottles
of sherry that cost a bunch shillings. Those who still get drunk to prove they are gentlemen,
they use what they call long drinks - is not this, you who have been there? - crap that cost
little and allow drinking and drinking before apimplarse, the wischy with soda and other disgusting
concoctions. Ordinariness dominates. Xerrrez as no longer ask when they come here and find
it for free. The only Jerez we appreciate the land, will soon just
buy us.

They drunk with cheap stuff, and so leave their affairs.

In the Transvaal almost burst. The best day I pasted into the sea with all its handsomeness.
Decay: no longer are the same those times when the house was a warehouse Dupont little bigger
than a shack, but sent their bottles to your cellar and Mr. Pitt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Velintón and
other gentlemen whose names appear on the sills oldest large winery.

Montenegro was still laughing when he heard these laments.

- Laugh, boy, laughing. You are all the same: they have known good and you wonder the I find
that bad old today. You know how they paid before the boot of thirty a arrobas? Well, was worth
230 pesos, and has now sold in some years to 21 pesos. Ask your father, but less old than I,
also called the golden era. The money flowed in Jerez as well as the air. There were planters
who used and lived calanes in a shack on the outskirts and poor, lit by a lamp, but to pay a
bill threw a bag they had under the pine nightstand like a sack of potatoes, Nah, you take
and ounces! Workers in the vineyards charged thirty to forty real wages, and allowed the fantasy
of going to the block in surrey and patent leather shoes. Nothing newspapers, or harangues,
or rallies. Wherever people gathered sounding guitar, streak released each and every ram that
God is shaking like meat ... If Fernando Salvatierra had appeared then, your father's crony, with
all these things poor and rich, land deals and rivoluciones, we have offered a reed and had
said: "Sit your honor on the floor, comrade, drink, sing, take a dance with if this young lady
like and do not mind bad blood in our lives, which is not of the worst "... But the British soon
as we drink, the money comes less frequently in Jerez, and thereby hidden condemned that nobody
sees. Workers in the vineyards and have won ten real face of vinegar. In case you have to trim
with a knife or scissors, kill each other, there Mano Negra and the square of the prison were
given stick to men what had not been seen in many years Jerez. The laborer just click like
a hedgehog spoken to, and love is worse than before. You do not see the gentlemen alternating
with the poor in the vintage, dancing and flirting with girls as a young farmhand. Guard runs
the civil field and in the times we went bandits on the roads ... And everything what, sir?
As I say, because the English are fond of fucking and whischy ignore the good wood cutting,
or palm, or any other of the excellence of this blessed land ...
What I say money, money come, come back here, as in other times, pounds,
guineas and shillings and no more strikes, and sermons Salvatierra
and his supporters, and the evil acts of civilians, and all the misery
and shame that we now see!

...

The bottom of the hold out a cry calling Mr. Vicente.

He was a doubter cast aside with the white numbers drawn in front
of a boot and asked for clarification the storekeeper.

- I, son!
- Shouted the old man .-- Beware of mistakes in medicine!

...

And he added to Montenegro:

- Let that slip of paper in the darkroom and I hope that you drop your hands before you get
me more recipes, as if I were a chemist.

The old man walked with slow step and swaying to the bottom of the
cellar, and Montenegro came it through the cooperage shop before returning
to the desktop.

It was a large yard with sheds, under which striking coopers worked
with their decks rings that held the wood.

The casks to medium build, with only top secured by iron hoops, opened their staves over a fire
of chips that warmed, bending to facilitate closure.

Home business forced it to a ceaseless production workshop.

Hundreds of barrels out of it every week to be shipped in Cadiz,
spreading wines Dupont worldwide.

On one side of the courtyard stood a tower formed with staves. At the top of the fragile edifice
two students were picking up throwing them from below, mixing, adding new height to the fragile
construction that exceeded the roof and threatened to collapse, swaying at the slightest movement
as a house of cards.

The head of the cooperage, a stocky, good-natured smile, approached Montenegro.

- How is Don Fernando? ...

Felt by the agitator great respect from his days as a laborer.

Protection Dupont and ductility that folded all his hobbies, he had raised. But as compensation
to the servility that had become the head of the workshop, had a secret affection for the
revolutionary and their associates at the time of misery. Thoroughly learned how he had gone
the presidio Salvatierra and their future life plans.

- I'll go
see him when he can - he said, lowering his voice, - the master does
not find out ... Yesterday we had big party at the church of the Jesuits
and by the afternoon I went with my girls to visit Mrs. ... I know
that you passed the day.

I have said here at the winery.

With the fear of a server that is afraid to lose fat enough welfare, gave advice to the young.
Ojo, Ferminillo! The house was full of informers. When he was aware, would not be Don Pablo surprising
news that had already had visited Montenegro Salvatierra.

And as if afraid to talk too and someone watching him, took his leave hurriedly Fermin, returning
to the side of the workers who beat the drums. Montenegro continued Later, entering the main
cellar of the house, where they kept the old sills aged and aged wines.

It was like a cathedral, but a white cathedral, crisp, bright, with its five naves separated columns
of three rows of simple capital. Agrandábase the footsteps same in a temple. The vaults thundered
with the sound of voices repeating widened by the echo. The walls were torn by the white glass
windows and two gable there were two large rosettes, also white, one of which penetrated the
sun, moving light beam in the restive iridescent dust molecules.

Along the colonnades alineábase in swaths of wealth of the house, the triple row lying barrels,
which were in their faces the figure for the year of harvest.

There were barrels venerable covered with cobwebs and dust, so wet the wood, which seemed close
to undone. They were the patriarchs of the cellar: they were baptized with the names of heroes
who enjoyed worldwide fame when they were born. A barrel is called Napoleon, another Nelson;
had adorned with the royal crown of England, because they had drunk monarchs of Great Britain.
An ancient oak, completely isolated, as if the friction with others could be gutted, exhibited
the venerable name of Noah. It was the most senior the house dated from the mid eighteenth century
and the first of the Dupont had acquired and as a relic. Near it were ranged other barrels they
did under the shield Spain's real names of all the monarchs and infants
who had visited Jerez in course of the century.

The rest of the hold filled samples of all crops, from the first years of the century. A single
barrel spreading a pungent perfume, which, as I said Montenegro, "filled mouth water. " He
was a famous vinegar, one hundred and thirty years old.

And the smell uníanse dry and pungent sweet perfume of sweet wines, and soft leather, the dry.
The alcoholic vapor transpired oak barrels and the smell of the drops spilled on the ground
for the transfer, permeated with the scent of the quiet gentle madness
atmosphere of the cellar, white, like an ice palace, trembling under
the caress of inflamed by the sun glasses.

Fermin went through, and was already out of it when he heard his name called from the bottom.
Experienced a shock to know the voice. Was 'the master', who accompanied some outsiders. With
him was his cousin Luis, a Dupont was lower only in some years to Don Pablo, respected him
as head of the family, without depriving him of this in great trouble
with his behavior disarray.

Dupont accompanied the two newlyweds who had come from Madrid, teaching holds. He was an old friend of
a gay life in Madrid comrade who had sat head end by marrying.

- You have to get out of here drunk - Dupont said the young newlyweds .-- It ritual: we would consider
disgraced if a friend out of this house it came.

And Dupont the most benevolent smile welcomed with the words of his cousin, while listing the
excellence of each wine famous. The manager of the winery, stiff as a soldier, placed before
the barrels with two glasses in one hand and the other compromise, a rod iron topped by a narrow
saucepan.

- Saca, Juanito! - Imperiously ordered the master.

The compromise was sinking into different barrels, and in one fell
swoop, without spilling a drop, he filled the glasses.

Out air and light golden wine, crowned with brilliant falling into the glass, spreading around
an intense perfume of old age.

All shades Amber, from light gray to pale yellow, shining in those dense liquid view as oil, but
in a clear transparency. A distant exotic perfume, which made fantastic flowers think of a supernatural
world where there was eternal, emanated of these liquids extracted from the mystery of the casks. Life
seemed to accrue to the palate; charged senses new intensity, the blood burned in his trampling
on circulation and the smell was excited feeling unknown longing,
as if sniff a new electricity in the atmosphere.

The couple drank all travelers, after resist weak protests Luis invitations.

-
Hi, Barbie! - Dupont told the child to see Montenegro .-- How is your
family?

One day of these go into the vineyard. I want to try a horse that
I bought yesterday.

And after shaking hands with Montenegro and take several pats on the shoulders, satisfied able
to demonstrate the strength of his big hands to those friends, he turned his back.

Fermin had great confidence in this gentleman. It tuteaban, had grown up together in the vineyard
Marchamalo, with that frankness of treatment enabled the Dupont family.

With Don Pablo, the situation was different. The master did not differ from Fermin in over half
a dozen years, also had seen him as a boy running through the vineyard in the late times Don
Paul, but now was the head of the family, the head of the house, and he understood the authority
to use old, grim and indisputable as God, with shouts and outbursts
of anger, just sensed the slightest disobedience.

- Stay - briefly
ordered Montenegro, - I have to talk.

And he turned back to continue talking to strangers of his treasure of wines.

Fermin, forcing him to silent and shrunk as a servant in idle for between the barrels, he looked
at Don Pablo.

He was still young, it had reached forty, but his body disfigured obesity despite the active life
you rider drove his enthusiasms.

The arms seemed short to get some rest on the bulging curved contour of your body. His youth revelábase
only chubby face, full lips and projections on which the virility had drawn only a slight mustache.
The curly hair on the forehead forming a loop tight, a Monet that often took his meaty hand. Was
usually, kind and peaceful, but enough to be disobeyed or disappointed believed to redden it face,
his voice reedy piping tone of anger. The concept was the authority, the habit of sending from
his youth seeing the front of the wineries the death of his father, made him a despotic with
subordinates and his own family.

Fermín feared without hate. He saw a sick person, "a degenerate",
capable of the greatest extravagance by religious exaltation. For
Dupont, the master it was by divine right, as the former kings. God
wanted me there were rich and poor, and those below should obey the
above, because they ordered a social hierarchy of celestial origin.
It was not stingy in matters of money, rather, was generous in compensation
for services, although his generosity had a lot of fickle and intermittent,
looking more in terms of people sympathetic that on its merits. Sometimes,
to find in the street workers dismissed from their warehouses, indignant
because they greeted him. "You! - Said imperiously, - even when you're
in my house Your duty is to greet me forever because I was your master.
"

And this Don Paul, who with industrial strength accumulated by
his predecessors and with the impetuosity of his character was the
nightmare of a thousand men, made a show of humility and reached servility
as a secular priest or monks of various orders established Jerez visited
him at his desk. Tried to kneel down to kiss his hand, not doing because
they prevented it with a kindly smile, celebrated with a gesture of
satisfaction that visitors will tuteasen to employees, calling Pablito,
as in the time that was his pupil.

Jesus and His Holy Mother, above
all business combinations! They watched over the interests of the
house and he was not just a simple sinner, were just receiving their
inspirations. The lock creaked, the great iron door swung back, and
we were swallowed up in a tomb--a stone vault where men are none the less buried because they
have separate cells. They do not live, though they appear to be alive; they move, and sometimes
speak, and appear to hear words. Some have to be sent away and buried outside. They have been
dead a long time, but have not seemed to want putting in the ground. That makes no change in
them--not much, I mean. If they sleep it's all right; if they don't sleep anything must be
happiness after the life they have escaped. 'Happy are the dead' is written on all prison walls.

What I suffered in that first time no tongue can tell. I can't bear now to think of it and
put it down. The solitary part of it was enough to drive any man mad that had been used to
a free life. Day after day, night after night, the same and the same and the same over again.

Then the dark cells. I got into them for a bit. I wasn't always as cool as I might be--more
times that mad with myself that I could have smashed my own skull against the wall, let alone
any one else's. There was one of the warders I took a dislike to from the first, and he to
me, I don't doubt. I thought he was rough and surly. He thought I wanted to have my own way,
and he made it up to take it out of me, and run me every way he could. We had a goodish spell
of fighting over it, but he gave in at last. Not but what I'd had a lot to bear, and took a
deal of punishment before he jacked up. I needn't have had it. It was all my own obstinacy
and a sort of dogged feeling that made me feel I couldn't give in. I believe it done me good,
though. I do really think I should have gone mad else, thinking of the dreadful long months
and years that lay before me without a chance of getting out.

Sometimes I'd take a low fit and refuse my food, and very near give up living altogether. The
least bit more, and I'd have died outright. One day there was a party of ladies and gentlemen
came to be shown over the gaol. There was a lot of us passing into the exercise yard. I happened
to look up for a minute, and saw one of the ladies looking steadily at us, and oh! what a pitying
look there was in her face. In a moment I saw it was Miss Falkland, and, by the change that
came into her face, that she knew me again, altered as I was. I wondered how she could have
known me. I was a different-looking chap from when she had seen me last. With a beastly yellow-gray
suit of prison clothes, his face scraped smooth every day, like a fresh-killed pig, and the
look of a free man gone out of his face for ever--how any woman, gentle or simple, ever can
know a man in gaol beats me. Whether or no, she knew me. I suppose she saw the likeness to
Jim, and she told him, true enough, she'd never forget him nor what he'd done for her.

I just looked at her, and turned my head away. I felt as if I'd make a fool of myself if I
didn't. All the depth down that I'd fallen since I was shearing there at Boree rushed into
my mind at once. I nearly fell down, I know. I was pretty weak and low then; I'd only just
come out of the doctor's hands.

I was passing along with the rest of the mob. I heard her voice quite clear and firm, but soft
and sweet, too. How sweet it sounded to me then!

'I wish to speak a few words to the third prisoner in the line--the tall one. Can I do so,
Captain Wharton?'

'Oh! certainly, Miss Falkland,' said the old gentleman, who had brought them all in to look
at the wonderful neat garden, and the baths, and the hospital, and the unnatural washed-up,
swept-up barracks that make the cleanest gaol feel worse than the roughest hut. Why do not intend to reduce the constant loyalty of many that bound
by the obligations of their birth, they would have sacrificed everything for the Sovereign: I just
want to give a positive idea of ​​the state in which generally were those provinces.

Provisions and José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru as accurate to start his meditated usurpation, did not
stop more reflections. He took over that our Court was determined to hold a war against the
English, who occupied all his attention: the cries of excessive merchants and traders against the new
taxes he repeated many times buyers from its stores and counters, for no other reason than to lose
its excess profit had penetrated the hearts of not only Indians but the spirits of all: that lend
pleasing the ears to the voices of freedom and independence, and its own mayor, D. Antonio Arriaga,
was excommunicated by the Bishop of Cuzco, whose providence Espedido recklessly by that prelate,
sometimes as dangerous, he had drawn from the souls of its provinces, submitted to it thought it could
not more favorable situation to establish their rule and persuaded accidents which recognized
by all, would find widespread support for his daring attempt put it in egecucion. Not far from the
truth, and would have surely been verified his plans if, as it began, had followed the method of
support to all those under his banner were presented, effectively ruling, but the fierce rendered
unusable condition of their commanders, and the barbarism of some troops who failed to obey repeated
orders that many had given, to be egecutase in this way, and to not offend or for harm to the
Spanish creoles, mestizos, cholos and baboons in their persons or property.

Well penetrated by the Inspector General, D. José Antonio de Areche, and Field Marshal D. José
del Valle, the dire dire consequences that could be expected from the critical situation in
which the kingdom was not immediately soured, and choosing headquarters " Cuzco, devoted all
his attention to seek the means to quickly contain progress and authority of the rebel, who every
day increased dramatically. If I'd been a Catholic,
like Aileen and mother, I should have settled what the Virgin Mary was like when she was alive,
and never said a prayer to her without thinking of Miss Falkland.

While I was dying one week and getting over it another, and going through all the misery every
fellow has in his first year of gaol, Starlight was just his old self all the time. He took
it quite easy, never gave any one trouble, and there wasn't a soul in the place that wouldn't
have done anything for him. The visiting magistrate thought his a most interesting case, and
believed in his heart that he had been the means of turning him from the error of his ways--he
and the chaplain between them, anyhow. He even helped him to be allowed to be kept a little
separate from the other prisoners (lest they should contaminate him!), and in lots of ways
made his life a bit easier to him.

It was reported about that it was not the first time that he had been in a gaol. That he'd
'done time', as they call it, in another colony. He might or he might not. He never said. And
he wasn't the man, with all his soft ways, you'd like to ask about such a thing.

By the look of it you wouldn't think he cared about it a bit. He took it very easy, read half
his time, and had no sign about him that he wasn't perfectly satisfied. He intended when he
got out to lead a new life, the chaplain said, and be the means of keeping other men right
and straight.

One day we had a chance of a word together. He got the soft side of the chaplain, who thought
he wanted to convert me and take me out of my sulky and obstinate state of mind. He took good
care that we were not overheard or watched, and then said rather loud, for fear of accidents--

'Well, Richard, how are you feeling? I am happy to say that I have been led to think seriously
of my former evil ways, and I have made up my mind, besides, to use every effort in my power
to clear out of this infernal collection of tombstones when the moon gets dark again, about
the end of this month.'

'How have you taken to become religious?' I said. 'Are you quite sure that what you say can
be depended upon? And when did you get the good news?'

'I have had many doubts in my mind for a long time,' he said, 'and have watched and prayed
long, and listened for the word that was to come; and the end of it is that I have at length
heard the news that makes the soul rejoice, even for the heathen, the boy Warrigal, who will
be waiting outside these walls with fresh horses. I must now leave you, my dear Richard,' he
said; 'and I hope my words will have made an impression on you. When I have more to communicate
for your good I will ask leave to return.'

After I heard this news I began to live again. Was there a chance of our getting out of this
terrible tomb into the free air and sunshine once more? However it was to be managed I could
not make out. I trusted mostly to Starlight, who seemed to know everything, and to be quite
easy about the way it would all turn out.

All that I could get out of him afterwards was that on a certain night a man would be waiting
with two horses outside of the gaol wall; and that if we had the luck to get out safe, and
he thought we should, we would be on their backs in three minutes, and all the police in New
South Wales wouldn't catch us once we got five minutes' start.

This was all very well if it came out right; but there was an awful lot to be done before we
were even near it. The more I began to think over it the worse it looked; sometimes I quite
lost heart, and believed we should never have half a chance of carrying out our plan.

We knew from the other prisoners that men had tried from time to time to get away. Three had
been caught. One had been shot dead--he was lucky--another had fallen off the wall and broke
his leg. Two had got clear off, and had never been heard of since.

We were all locked up in our cells every evening, and at five o'clock, too. We didn't get out
till six in the morning; a long, long time. Cold enough in the bitter winter weather, that
had then come in, and a long, weary, wretched time to wait and watch for daylight.

Well, first of all, we had to get the cell door open. That was the easiest part of the lot.
There's always men in a big gaol that all kinds of keys and locks are like large print to.
They can make most locks fly open like magic; what's more, they're willing to do it for anybody
else, or show them how. It keeps their hand in; they have a pleasure in spiting those above
them whenever they can do it.

The getting out of the cell was easy enough, but there was a lot of danger after you had got
out. A passage to cross, where the warder, with his rifle, walked up and down every half-hour
all night; then a big courtyard; then another smaller door in the wall; then the outer yard
for those prisoners who are allowed to work at stone-cutting or out-of-door trades.

After all this there was the great outer wall to climb up and drop down from on the other side.

We managed to pick our night well. A French convict, who liked that sort of thing, gave me
the means of undoing the cell door. It was three o'clock in the morning, when in winter most
people are sleepy that haven't much on their minds. The warder that came down the passage wasn't
likely to be asleep, but he might have made it up in his mind that all was right, and not taken
as much notice as usual. 

[226.] Although these functions in the current order, dependent on certain conditions to which
they are subject the bodies, however, considered in itself, as are a modification of the soul,
present no essential relationship with the corporeal world. It seems then that would be contrary
to the principles of sound philosophy, to say that the disembodied soul can not experience conditions
similar to those felt while it is in this life. If this does not refute the soul separate, why
repugnant to other spirits?

The sensitive faculties are a kind of perception of a lower order, although see beings united
to bodies, are carried out immediately by a corporeal body, far from repugnant to the simplicity,
the demand: and for this reason we have seen, that matter is incapable feel (Lib II, Cap. II.).
Serious philosophers are of opinion that the causality of the bodies with respect to the feelings,
is merely casual, and this opinion is the difficulty to explain how a compound can be produced
conditions of any kind in a simple. Far because it has no contradiction between the simplicity
and the sensory faculties, there is a link required: no composite
being can be sensitive.

[227.] Perhaps one could believe that there is no longer any doubt as to the possibility of sensation,
regardless of the bodily organs, and to say otherwise would must maintain that God can not produce
itself, which occurs through the causes second.

The observations made so far, seem to exhaust the issue, but on reflection more about it, we'll
have to see what is little more than intact.

We should not forget that here we limit ourselves to consider the powers sensitive in comparison
to a single attribute of beings, simplicity. This limits on so the question, making it not be solved
only under one aspect. Simplicity, is a negative property: to say that one thing is simple, we
deny the parties, but not assert any of its properties: we say what is not, not what it is. From
this it follows, arguing that the sensitive powers not inherently repugnant to a pure spirit, we
restrict the proposition, and we would express more accurately if,
instead of saying "The sensitive faculties are not repugnant to a
pure spirit," we should say: "The sensitive faculties not repugnant
to the simplicity of a pure spirit.

"

[228.] This latter observation has in my view, the question in its true view: the rest is confusing
ideas, and solve problems without sufficient data. In effect: who knows, if disgust is not
between sensitivity and simplicity be found between sensitivity and some attribute that we
do not know? this argument not valid for the human soul, which we know is capable of feeling,
but applies to the other spirits, which neither know the essence,
nor have we undergoes what is the nature of their powers of perception.

[229.]

One of the distinctive characters of sensory perception, is the reference to objects individual,
and this, not with regard to the essence of them, but as being somewhat provision, which varieties
do not affect his inmost nature. The same extension, which objectify instinct and reflection,
is rather a result of the relations of beings entering the large compound, not the beings themselves.
This shows that the powers sensitive are the last grade in the order of perception, because their
functions are limited to indicate when that has a certain disposition of external objects, without
teaching anything on their nature. As pure spirits are in a higher degree in perceptual scale
of beings, and one of the characters of intelligence is to penetrate the intimate nature of
things may well be that higher intelligence to than ours, they hate the sensitive faculty,
not for reasons of simplicity, but the gender of their perception.

[230.] This we can guess based on a matter of analogy, what happens
to us themselves.

Sensible representations are often useful aids for the perception purely intellectual, but there
is no doubt that sometimes we get pregnant and confused. Any will have experienced that in the very
abstract meditations on objects, representations sensitive are a kind of hindrance of intelligence,
which we would like to get rid For some moments, if it were possible to our weakness. Sensible representations
seem in such cases, to shadows that stand between the intellectual eye and object be linking
the need for continuous stirring, slows and weakens the perception. We propose For example, think
about causality, it is clear that this idea taken in the abstract, should not can not get any
sensible representation, and however much we try, representation occurs to us: now is the same word
causality, written or spoken; now the image of a man running any thing now of any other agent,
but never we may dispose of any sensible representation. The understanding is compelled to
say continually to himself: "this is not the idea of ​​causality, that is an image, a comparison,
an expression "unmarried defending illusions that would make it particularly confusing universal,
the necessary quota, appearance with reality.

[231.] From the above we infer that the reluctance of the sensitive faculties to nature of a pure
spirit, could very well arise from the nature of his own intelligence,
which, because of his perfection, not agree to this duality of perception
we experience in ourselves.

The object of the intellect is the essence of the thing, quidditas, as expressive of the scholastics;
and sensitive performances tell us nothing about the essence. We offer a look of things, and
even this is limited to the perception of the extension, for in that respect to other sensations,
but rather experience a subjective fact that instinct and reason do we attribute to external causes,
we can not perceive the same arrangement of objects.

[232.] This latter observation suggests to me one that can support the conjecture that, in rising
intelligence to some degree, is incompatible with the sensitive faculties.

In feelings We note, we would say even anything about that aspect or disposition of the external world
if they had to base the extension, what do you reduce the corporeal world if we assume unextended?
Having thus shown (Chap. II.) That the extension, but based on some feelings, no is direct and
immediate object of sensation, is the only thing in the sensitive faculties makes us feel something
about the reality of objects is not really sensible. Then if the character of intellectual perception
is to know the reality of the object, the more intelligence is raised, more distant find the feeling,
being able to get case that intellectual and sensory faculties are incompatible in the same
subject.

[233.] Will understand better the strength of the observation above,
casting a glance at the scale of beings, and noticing what happens,
as they are more perfect.

The isolation of a being, indicates imperfection: the slightest idea that we form an object, is when
you conceive of absolute limits to its existence, without any internal activity, or external,
completely inert. So we figured a stone has its existence with shape: it is what has been
done, and nothing else: it retains the form that you have given but did not involve any activities,
to communicate with other beings has no conscience what is, in all relationships is completely passive,
receives, but does not give or can give.

[234.] As things rise in the level of perfection ceases isolation: with the passive properties,
combining the active, such agents conceive corporeal While not yet reached the status of living,
and take an active part in the production of phenomena emerging from the laboratory of nature.
In these beings, to more than have, find what they can: their relationships with others are many and
varied: its existence not limited to his own circle, it expands,
communicating in some way to rest.

[235.] As you enter the order of organic beings, and we find ourselves with a more nature expansive:
life is a continuous expansion. The living being, somehow extends to time they have ceased to exist,
confining itself reproductive germs, not itself only for itself but also for others in its
smallness, is nothing more than an imperceptible link in the great
chain of nature, but this link vibrates, so to speak, and their vibrations
propagated to the farthest reaches.

[236.] When life rises to the feeling, spreads even more, the feelings, somehow locked in the
universe with the consciousness of what they experience, is put into new relationships with all
that work on it. The perception is immanent, that is, lies in the same subject, but combined
with the subjectivity of objectivity, by which the universe is to be reflected in a point.
So just being there in itself is somehow the other things, verifying the saying of the scholastics,
so full of deep meaning: "What we know is the thing known." The feeling there is some order, are
the more perfect The less subjective: the noblest, are what put us in communication with objects
strictly speaking, those which are not limited to the experience
of the objects that cause us, but knowledge of what they are.

[237.] There for the objectivity of the sensations a base that is the extension: and this, and
is not directly and immediately felt: the only thing that moves us as it were, to the outside, is not
proper sense. The extension, which teaches us something about the reality of beings, with respect
to certain provisions of them together, is rather the subject of intelligence sensitive to a power,
the sensation is over, and science is born. And science is not limited what appears to objects,
but to what is in them, the understanding does not stop in the subjective,
passes into the objective, and when you can not reach reality, it
expands by regions of possibility.

[238.] In this look just throw on the scale of beings, is that perfection of these is proportional
to its expansion, that, as they are more perfect, leaving more of the own field, and enter the
outside. Here is that perception, the highest, is less subjective: the smallest degree what
the feeling is limited to what is experienced by the subject percipient,
the highest level, intelligence, dispenses with the experienced and
deals real, and its own object.

[239.] We should infer from the above that if we know the intimate nature of pure spirits, you may
find that the sensitive faculties, were completely incompatible with the elevation of his mind: and
that the analogies based on the nature of our perceptions, are useless, referring to a way of understanding
more perfect than ours. Whatever, it must be acknowledged that the issue would be resolved in
a very incomplete if we had limited to one aspect of simplicity, and that considerations the nature
of intelligence should make us cautious not to assert as possible,
perhaps we would not be, if we knew more about the nature of things.

[240.] So far I have spoken referring to the inner possibility of things, what we will think
of reality? this is a matter of fact that can only be solved with
data provided by experience, and these data are missing: because we
are not in immediate communication, or with separate souls, nor with
pure spirits.

[241.] If we find any reason to deny the soul all the sensitive faculties, as soon as it is
separated from the body, and equal to all the pure spirits could find, rather than the essence of
things, in consideration of the purpose for which these powers are used. The soul, while united
to the body, presides over an organization subject to the general laws of the corporeal universe.
In exercising its functions as convenient, it needs to be in constant communication with his
own body and the around him, taking sensible intuition of corporate relations, being advised
by pain of any disorder that occurs in your body, and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an
instinct that guided and tempered by reason, I can tell helpful or necessary. When the soul
is not attached to the body, there is no reason to have any of these diseases need to target
not having them in their actions: and as this reason militaria with respect to all pure spirits,
you can guess the cause of the difference that should exist between the state of our soul in this
life, and spiritual beings not attached to any body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may
be in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be
so sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no
separate soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we could not say with complete
security sensitive conditions that they were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve,
it seems to strip the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful powers
that help them over their understanding, is a powerful mobile many
of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ​​pain or pleasure, but by mediating conditions of
feeling. In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple
acts of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that
we feel a pleasure in what you do not want.

After wanting and not wanting their own, and while in this life, do not involve pleasure or
displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever it
is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical
issues could be resolved by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful
set of faculties we call heart does not fall into the pit, but flies
with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real world
has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent soul
scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we must assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw
boundaries to the Almighty, calling impossible that the sight of a
sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are
subjected to the test of reason.

What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate nature of the objects, and
that therefore can exist or cease to exist, without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can
not be together in one place.

For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with abstraction of the body, is talking
about nothing. Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of
bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can be
considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will match
perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part of
another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In
both cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration
is no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which Place
the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only when the two objects
are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which case the impenetrability
is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what is supposed to separate,
that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then the geometric
impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because that exists in
the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty
of contradictions.

It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this point,
the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal globe,
as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that
it is not the regular order, which contradicts such assumptions, but
the very essence of things.

In this case, stated that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that analysis of
this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ​​place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so
that I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The situation
of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension
of each individual body is but a set of relations of its parts together,
to reach or to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will
be approached by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A TRIUMPH OF RELIGION IN THE FIELD OF PHILOSOPHY.

[249.] From the analysis I just made in the preceding chapters, is that objects extensive two things:
variety and continuity: the first is absolutely necessary if there be extension: various parties in
this fall, and difference can not be identical without manifest contradiction, continuity posters
displayed in the sensitive, is not essential to extended things, because there is only the
result of a set of relations, inseparable in the current order of sensitivity, but not absolutely
necessary in the order of reality. Transcendental philosophy, rising above the sensible representations,
leaving the phenomena and into the contemplation of things themselves, not discover in any part
the need for such relationships, and is forced to consider them as simple facts that could cease
to be, without any contradiction.

Thus the correspondence is saved phenomenon of reality, and harmonizes the internal with the external
world, but do not move to this all the subjective conditions of that so, than necessary for our representations,
it is also in itself and absolute necessity.

[250.] Having reached this point of transcendental philosophy, the spirit is as set a high peak,
from which to discover new worlds, and grateful to say, and comforting
the experience, between these worlds is discovered a new proof for
the divinity of the Catholic religion, and received a very salutary
lesson for not surrendering to the ravings a senseless philosophy,
which believes contradictions spot wherever you are offered August
shades.

[251.] There is in the Catholic religion a mystery that the Church celebrated with ceremonies
Augustus, and that the Christian worships with faith and love. The unbeliever has been the
holy tabernacle, and smiling with contempt, said: "Here is a monument of superstition, behold
the man loving the absurd. "There is still a work of theology, but philosophically, I could
do without responding to the objections of unbelief, but it seems very timely occasion to Drop difficulties
raised by the superficiality and lightness that I can not help seize it. The genre of the work
forces me to be brief on this topic, but the importance claims that the object does not overlook,
mostly when Catholic authors who have Solid writing philosophy have
also made some clarifications on this matter, in places have thought
more appropriate, and particularly when dealing with the extension. 'Most
of the coves that bolt from Berrima takes down the southern road to get across the border into
Port Philip as soon as they can work it. They always fancy they are safer there.'

'So they are in some ways; I wouldn't mind if we were back there again,' I said. 'There's worse
places than Melbourne; but once we get to the Hollow, and that'll be some time to-day, we may
take it easy and spell for a week or two. How they'll wonder what the deuce has become of us.'

The night was long, and that cold that Jim's beard was froze as stiff as a board; but I sat
on my horse, I declare to heaven, and never felt anything but pleasure and comfort to think
I was loose again. You've seen a dog that's been chained up. Well, when he's let loose, don't
he go chevying and racing about over everything and into everything that's next or anigh him?
He'll jump into water or over a fence, and turn aside for nothing. He's mad with joy and the
feeling of being off the chain; he can't hardly keep from barking till he's hoarse, and rushing
through and over everything till he's winded and done up. Then he lies down with his tongue
out and considers it all over.

Well a man's just like that when he's been on the chain. He mayn't jump about so much, though
I've seen foreign fellows do that when their collar was unbuckled; but he feels the very same
things in his heart as that dog does, you take my word for it.

So, as I said, though I was sitting on a horse all that long cold winter's night through, and
had to mind my eye a bit for the road and the rocks and the hanging branches, I felt my heart
swell that much and my courage rise that I didn't care whether the night was going to turn
into a snowstorm like we'd been in Kiandra way, or whether we'd have a dozen rivers to swim,
like the head-waters of the M'Alister, in Gippsland, as nearly drowned the pair of us. There
I sat in my saddle like a man in a dream, lettin' my horse follow Jim's up hill and down dale,
and half the time lettin' go his head and givin' him his own road. Everything, too, I seemed
to notice and to be pleased with somehow. Sometimes it was a rock wallaby out on the feed that
we'd come close on before we saw one another, and it would jump away almost under the horse's
neck, taking two or three awful long springs and lighting square and level among the rocks
after a drop-leap of a dozen feet, like a cat jumping out of a window. But the cat's got four
legs to balance on and the kangaroo only two. How they manage it and measure the distance so
well, God only knows. Then an old 'possum would sing out, or a black-furred flying squirrel--pongos,
the blacks call 'em--would come sailing down from the top of an ironbark tree, with all his
stern sails spread, as the sailors say, and into the branches of another, looking as big as
an eagle-hawk. And then we'd come round the corner of a little creek flat and be into the middle
of a mob of wild horses that had come down from the mountain to feed at night. How they'd scurry
off through the scrub and up the range, where it was like the side of a house, and that full
of slate-bars all upon edge that you could smell the hoofs of the brumbies as the sharp stones
rasped and tore and struck sparks out of them like you do the parings in a blacksmith's shop.

Then, just as I thought daybreak was near, a great mopoke flits close over our heads without
any rustling or noise, like the ghost of a bird, and begins to hoot in a big, bare, hollow
tree just ahead of us. Hoo-hoo! hoo-hoo! The last time I heard it, it made me shiver a bit.
Now I didn't care. I was a desperate man that had done bad things, and was likely to do worse.
But I was free of the forest again, and had a good horse under me; so I laughed at the bird
and rode on.

Chapter 21

Daylight broke when we were close up to the Black Range, safe enough, a little off the line
but nothing to signify. Then we hit off the track that led over the Gap and down into a little
flat on a creek that ran the same way as ours did.

Jim had managed for father and Warrigal to meet us somewhere near here with fresh horses. There
was an old shepherd's hut that stood by itself almost covered with marsh-mallows and nettles. 

Followed José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru in the footsteps of all tyrants, and knowing how easily drifts
the populace of appearances that he was courting, because it penetrates the mysteries of the
usurper, he began publishing edicts of extortion that he suffered unbearable the nation, the bloated
pension unfairly tolerated, the wrongs that were repeated at customs, and tight set, that
the Indians were victims of the greed of the magistrates, who sought to enrich all means, regardless of
the injustices and humiliations that originated, whose modest complaints that they often represent
their excesses, were for nothing but to incite anger and revenge, and finally it was all wrong,
tyranny and ambition, that his intent was only reduced to seek the good of the Fatherland, with
extermination of the wicked and thieves. Thus explanations this rebel, to seduce towns, swelling
the party, and going armed to the edges of their anger to those who opposed him, invaded the
provinces of Azangaro, Carabaya, Ink, Calca and Quispicanchi that degree by force or declared
their party, at whose instance followed the same course those of Chucuito Pacajes Omasuyos, Larecaja,
and part of the Yungas of Misque, Cochabamba and Atacama. As general as the uprising, or were
experienced unprecedented tragic events, whose description was necessary for blood sudase the
pen, and our characters were tears.

With the many Indians who had assembled to Tupac Amaru, and weapons
that had already been seized, decided to go on Cuzco, to take possession
of this city, and made his attempt, crown on it, as the ancient capital
of the Peruvian empire, with all the solemnities to imitate the custom
of his old powers.

Availed of this population many fugitives from the provinces immediately, which frightened of the damage
caused the tyrant, but did not think their lives for that environment, and when they were imagining
leaving the city, and it was futile trying to resist the rebel, prevented D. Manuel Villalta,
mayor Abancay, who had served in the royal army with the rank of lieutenant colonel. This game
officer, ignoring the fears, and the experience of their profession, those spirits up shot,
he picked up the militia, and ordered things so difficult to project Rebel, who contributed much to
the chiefs and Chicheros Ink, Rozas and Pumacagua, whose loyalty and the Chuquiguancas, shone like a
bright star in the middle of the black darkness of the rebellion, offering the gift of loyalty worth
sacrificing some lives of their families and all the farms they owned.

Known by the tyrant how hard it was to take the Cuzco, abandoned the effort, after some attacks,
which was rejected by its neighbors gloriously, directed and governed by Villalta, who removed
a dam hand that already had, and lost that hope, contracted to continue the raids and robberies
against the Spanish.

Declared and everywhere war, and people and campaign without resistance, they could escape the
first insults, fled to the cities and villages that were more immediate. In Cochabamba only,
parts of the Yungas (with whom valleys bordered by Ayopaya), came more 5,000 people of both sexes and
all ages, who led the mayor, D. José Albisuri. Not because the Spanish people of missing the alteration
and suspicion that offered the large vulgar, but because the risk seemed less egecutivo, although
leaflets were fixed daily and songs were heard in favor of Tupac-Amaru, against the Europeans and
the government. Agitated care Viceroys of Lima and Buenos Aires, Exmos. Gentlemen, D. Agustin
de Jauregui and D. Juan José de Vertiz, thought seriously remedy many ills.
 I declare I begin to feel quite wicked, and as if I could fight the police
myself.'

'Well spoken, Miss Marston,' said Starlight, just lifting his hat and making a bit of a bow
like, just as if she was a real lady; but he was the same to all women. He treated them all
alike with the same respect of manner as if they were duchesses; young or old, gentle or simple--it
made no odds to him. 'We must have your assistance if we're to do any good. Though whether
it wouldn't be more prudent on your part to cut us all dead, beginning with your father, I
shouldn't like to say.'

Aileen looked at him, surprised and angry like for a second. Then she says--

'Captain Starlight, it's too late now; but words can never tell how I hate and despise the
whole thing. Always or almost always, by of the
most perverse qualities, often comes a good or average among the ingredients that make up the
character of each person. The most outrageous whore, which, abusing the senile lasciviousness
and pursuing it with diabolical cunning, arrives to take over the heart and wealth an old fool, and
generally be kind to be forgiven their rascalities, even without the slightest glimmer of goodness
in his soul, and to calm his conscience in check balance of its shares any good to counterbalance
the bad. I'm not saying Nicole, the stepmother of the Marquise Ramona, is a creature of pure evil
unlikely. There are or should Nicole had many real life and in society in which we live.


'I shall be all right,' he said, 'after a week's riding again.'

'And where are you going when you leave this place?' she asked. 'Surely you and my brothers
never can live in New South Wales after all that has passed.'

'We must try, at all events, Miss Marston,' Starlight answered, raising up his head and looking
proud. 'You will hear something of us before long.'

We made out that there was no great chance of our being run into at the old place. Father went
on first with Crib. He was sure to give warning in some way, best known to father himself,
if there was any one about that wasn't the right sort. So we went up and went in.

Mother was inside. I thought it was queer that she didn't come outside. She was always quick
enough about that when we came home before, day or night. When I went in I could see, when
she got up from her chair, that she was weak, and looked as if she'd been ill. She looked ever
so much older, and her hair was a lot grayer than it used to be.

She held out her arms and clung round my neck as if I'd been raised from the dead. So I was
in a kind of a way. But she didn't say much, or ask what I was going to do next. Poor soul!
she knew it couldn't be much good anyway; and that if we were hunted before, we'd be worse
hunted now. Those that hadn't heard of our little game with the Momberah cattle would hear
of our getting out of Berrima Gaol, which wasn't done every day.

We hadn't a deal of time to spare, because we meant to start off for the Hollow that afternoon,
and get there some time in the night, even if it was late. Jim and dad knew the way in almost
blindfold. Once we got there we could sleep for a week if we liked, and take it easy all roads.
So father told mother and Aileen straight that we'd come for a good comfortable meal and a
rest, and we must be off again.

'Oh! father, can't Dick and Jim stop for a day?' cries out Aileen. 'It does seem so hard when
we haven't seen Dick for such a while; and he shut up too all the time.'

'D'ye want to have us all took the same as last time?' growls father. 'Women's never contented
as I can see. For two pins I wouldn't have brought them this way at all. I don't want to be
making roads from this old crib to the Hollow, only I thought you'd like one look at Dick.'

'We must do what's best, of course,' said poor Aileen; 'but it's hard--very hard on us. It's
mother I'm thinking of, you know. If you knew how she always wakes up in the night, and calls
for Dick, and cries when she wakes up, you'd try to comfort her a bit more, father.'

'Comfort her!' says dad; 'why, what can I do? Don't I tell you if we stay about here we're
shopped as safe as anything ever was? Will that comfort her, or you either? We're safe today
because I've got telegraphs on the outside that the police can't pass without ringing the bell--in
a way of speaking. They were all there,
without knowing why, or what, without knowing for sure who it was
that brought them together.

The field had circulated the news that evening, at dusk, would be a great revolution, and they came
exasperated by the miseries and persecutions of the strike, taking
in the Gaza an old pistol, sickles, knives or shears terrible that
one could reverse to blow a head.

They had something else: the faith that accompanies any crowd in the early stages of rebellion,
credulity, which makes the most absurd excited about news, exaggerating
each which on their own to deceive himself, believing that the true
strength to weight their crazy inventions.

The initiative for the meeting, the first story, the thought work of Madrid, a young stranger
which had appeared in the field of Jerez in the middle strike, rousing his simple with bloodthirsty
sermons.

Nobody knew, but he was a boy of great verbosity and bird account, judging by the friendships that
he displayed. Salvatierra had sent him as he said, to fill in his absence.

The great social movement that would change the face of the world, due to start in Jerez. Salvatierra
and other less famous men were already hidden in the city, to present at the time appropriate.
The troops would join the revolutionaries just enter them in the population.

And the gullible, the imaginative vividness of their race, mending the story, embellishing it
with full details. Blind faith was spread by the groups.

I was not going to take more blood than rich people. The soldiers were with them were also officers
next to the revolution. Until the civil guard, so hated by the braceros deserve sympathy momentarily.
The tricorn also sided with the people. Salvatierra walked in it and his name was enough to accept
all the supernatural miracle.

The oldest, who had witnessed the September uprising against the Bourbons, were the most gullible
and trusting. They had seen and not need anyone to try on things. The rebel general, the chiefs
of the army, had not been more than automatons, within the power
of the great man of the land.

Don Fernando had done everything he ships had revolted, he had thrown the battalions against troops
Alcolea came from Madrid. What he did to dethrone a queen and prepare the abortion of a Republic
premature, was not to repeat it when it was nothing less than to conquer the bread the poor? ...

The
history of that country, the tradition of the land Cadiz province revolutions influenced on
the credulity of the people.

They had seen with so much ease, from night to morning thrones topple and ministries, and to
take prisoners to kings, no one doubted the possibility of a revolution
more important than before, it would ensure the welfare of forlorn.

The hours passed and the sun began to hide, but the crowd knew with sure what was waiting and
how long he would stay there.

Zarandillo uncle was from one group to another to satisfy their curiosity.

He had escaped Matanzuela, fighting with the old woman who wanted to prevent the passage, against
the advice of the overseer, reminding him that at his age was not
at adventures.

I wanted to see up close what was a rigolución of poor witness the blessed time (if ever)
where workers of the land remain with her for kidneys, breaking it
into small pieces, filling the vast and uninhabited properties, making
his dream.

Trying to recognize people with weak eyes, wondering immobility of groups, uncertainty, lack
of plan.

- I have served, guys - said, - I have done the war, and this is now paves same battle. Where
you have the flag? Where is the general? ...

As much as it revolved around his eyes cloudy, saw only groups of people who seemed Aboba by
endless waiting. Neither general or flag!

- Bad, bad - I muttered .-- Zarandillo paece güelvo me to the farm. The old woman was right;
This Güel to death.

Another curious was also from group to group, listening to the conversations.

Capers was with double hat sunk just the ears, shaking his body, with
feminine swagger within ragged suit.

The farmhands acogíanlo with laughter. Does he even there? ... Would give a gun when they entered
the city, to see if was fighting with the bourgeoisie as a bold.

But the answer to the proposition gypsy with exaggerated gestures of fear. People of race did not like
war. Take it a gun! Do we have seen many Roma were soldiers?

...

- But it does rob steal - he said others .-- When touching upon how
you cast you put the body, porridge!

And laughing like a monkey capers, rubbing his hands as he spoke of
looting, flattered in atavistic instincts of race.

A former farmhand of Matanzuela reminded his cousin Mari-Cruz.

- If you are a man, capers, tonight you can get revenge. Take this scythe and gets in the Rogue
belly Don Luis.

The Roma refused the deadliest tool of the group fled to hide her tears.

Began to get dark. Day laborers, tired of waiting, moving, breaking
out in protest.

See! Who sent there? Were they going to stay overnight in Caulin? Where was Salvatierra To be
present! ... Without it went anywhere.

The impatience and discontent gave rise to a head. They heard the voice of thunder Juanon on
the cries of the people. Your athlete's arms rose above their heads.

- But who gave the order to meet ...? "The Madrid? Let's see: come, if they look.

The workers of the city, the core partners of the idea that he had left and had Jerez efforts to
re-enter the country people are grouped around Juanon, guessing him as the leader who would unite
all wills.

They found, at last, at Madrid, and Juanon approached him to see what they were doing there.
The stranger expressed with great verbosity, but without saying anything.

-
We have gathered for the revolution, that is, for social revolution.

Juanon kicked impatiently. Salvatierra But what? Where was Don Fernando? ... The Madrid had not seen
him, but he knew, he was told that was awaiting Jerez input of the people. I also knew, or
rather, had been told that the troops would be with them. The prison guard was walking in the garlic.
There was only presented, and the soldiers doors would open, releasing all imprisoned comrades.

The
giant was thought for a moment, rubbing his forehead as if to help with these Progress rubs his muddled
thinking.

- Okay - after a long pause said .-- This is a matter to be men, or not to be: getting into the
city and what comes out, that or go to sleep.

Shone in his eyes cold resolution, the fatalism of those who resign themselves to be drivers men.
Poured on him the responsibility of a rebellion that had not prepared.

Knew much of seditious movement, and those people who seemed absorbed
in the twilight, without being able to explain why he was there.

-
Comrades! - Shouted imperiously .-- A Jerez those with kidney!

Let's get the our poor brothers prison ... and what is third.

Salvatierra is there.

The first to approach the makeshift leader, was Trebujena Paco, the
bracero rebel dismissed from all the villages, as he walked the field
with his donkey selling liquor and revolutionary roles.

- I'm going
with you, Juanon, as the mate Fernando ahead.

- He who is man, and
be shy, follow me! - Continued Juanon large screams, no certainly
lead to know where peers.

But despite appeals to manhood and shame, most of those gathered is backwards instinctively.
A murmur of distrust, of immense disappointment, elevábase of the
crowd.

Most, passed suddenly noisy enthusiasm to suspicion and fear. Her fantasy of southern, always ready
for the unexpected and wonderful, had made them believe in the emergence of Salvatierra and
other famous revolutionaries, all mounted on spirited steeds, as
arrogant and invincible warlords, followed by a large army which miraculously
emerged land.

Subject to accompany these powerful aids in its entry into Jerez,
reserving the easy task of killing the vanquished, and awarded her
wealth!

And instead of this, I spoke to go alone in that city, that drew on the horizon, over the
last glow of the setting sun and seemed to wink satanically his eyes
red lighting, as drawing them into an ambush.

They were not fools. Life was hard on her too much work and perpetual hunger, but worse was
to die. A house! Home! ...

And the groups began to march in the direction opposite to the city
to get lost in the shadows, not wanting to hear the insults and the
most exalted Juanon.

These, fearing defections facilitate immobility gave the marching orders.

- A Jerez! A Jerez! ...

Out on the road.

Were a thousand city workers, and men-beasts that The meeting had
been smelling blood and they could not withdraw, as if instinct urges
them superior to his will.

Juanon Next, among the most courageous, walked the Maestrico, the boy who passed night in the Gañanía,
teaching reading and writing.

- I think we're going wrong - he said
to his companion .-- vigorous march blindly.

I have seen men running at Jerez, to warn our arrival. We expect, but not for anything good.

-
You will Cayas, Maestrico - said imperiously leader, who, proud of his office, welcomed as the
least objection .-- irreverence Cayas you, that is. And if you fear, as you najas others. Here
we are not cowards.

- I coward - the boy simply said .-- Forward, Juanon. Pa what life is worth! ...

They marched in silence, with bowed head, as if they would attack
the city.

Trotting as if he wished to leave as soon as possible to the uncertainty that accompanied them
in their career.

The Spaniard explained his plan. A jail then: to get the fellow prisoners.
There they join the troop.

And Juanon, as if he could order anything that was not for his voice, he repeated loudly:

- A prison, boys! To save our brothers!

They took a long detour to get into the city by a street, as if they were ashamed treading the well-lit
wide roads.

Many of these men had been in Jerez very few times, unaware of the
streets and followed their conductors with docility a herd, thinking
concerns the way out of there if they were forced to flee.

The avalanche was moving black deaf and dumb crowd of steps that touched the floor. Cerrábanse
the doors of the houses, apagábanse the lights in the windows.

From a balcony insulted a woman.

- Scoundrels! Ordinary riffraff!

Hopefully I'll be damned, that's what you deserve!

...

And in the stones of the pavement, echoed the shock of breaking a clay pot without that the fragments
reached anyone.

Marcasite was that from the balcony of livestock pigs, indignant against that mob, unpleasant
for its ordinariness, who dared threaten decent people.

Only a few raised their heads: The others followed later, insensitive to the ridiculous aggression,
anxious to reach as soon as possible to meet friends. Those who were in the city recognized the
Marquis, and answered his insults away with words so classic as immodest. But what that tip! Not
to hurry, she had been given a spanking by under skirts ...

The column was somewhat reflux to the top of the hill leading to the square of the Prison: The
worst site shadow of the city. Many of the rebels remembered the comrades La Mano Negra: there
had given them stick.

The square was deserted, the ancient convent converted in prison had closed all openings, with no
light bars. Until the guard was hiding behind the big gate.

He stopped the head of the column to enter the plaza, resisting the
push from those who came behind.

No! Who would help? Where were the soldiers who were to join them?

...

They soon know. Broke down a fence shooting a flame, a red line dissolving in smoke. A huge, dry
whiplash shaken the plaza. Then another and another until nine, which people, still in shock,
seemed infinite in number. It was the guard, made fire before they were put in front of the guns.

Surprise and terror gave some a naive heroism. Advanced screaming,
arms open.

- Do not throw, brothers, that we have sold! ... Brothers,
do not come from poor! ...

But the brothers were hard to ear, and
kept shooting. Suddenly the crowd started in the fear of leakage.
They ran all downhill, cowardly and brave, pushing each other, violated,
as if they whipped their backs those shots that were shaking the empty
square.

Juanon and more energetic, turning a corner contained the
flood of men. Groups rallied, but smaller, less compact. They were
no more than a hundred men. The gullible leader swore in a low voice.

-
To see: the coming of Madrid: we explain this.

But it was useless
to look for. The Madrid had disappeared in the dispersion, was hidden
in the streets to the sound of gunfire, as everyone who knew the city.
There were only Juanon beside those who were marching from the mountains
and grope through the streets, amazed to go from side to side, seeing
no one, as if the city were deserted.

- Ni Salvatierra is in Jerez,
or know anything about this - said .-- I Maestrico to Juanon paece
that have us harm.

- So I think - said the athlete .-- What we JACER?
Since we're here, let's go to center of Jerez, to Long Street.

Undertook
a march in disarray inside the city. What were relieved, instilling
a certain value, was not encountering obstacles or enemies. Where
was the guard civil? Why hide the troops? The fact remain locked in
their barracks, leaving the city in their hand, they infused the absurd
hope that it was still possible the emergence of Salvatierra, in front
of the rebel troops.

They arrived without any obstacle to Larga street.
No precaution on arrival. The road was clean transients, but in casinos
showed themselves illuminated balconies, the lower floors had no other
close to the gates of crystals.

The rebels went to the societies
of the rich hate glancing, but not just stop. Juanon expected an outburst
of anger of the miserable herd: to be prepared to interfere with his
authority as chief to mitigate the disaster.

- These are the rich!
- Said in the groups.

- Those of us who grow fat gazpacho dog.

-
Those who steal from us. Mial how to drink our blood ...

And after
a brief detention, the parade continued hastily, as if they were to
some party and feared arriving late.

Wielding the terrible shears,
sickles, knives ... To go aside the rich and would how rolling their
heads on the pavement! But there was to be on the street, they all
felt some reluctance to push the gates, as if the crystals were an
insurmountable wall.

The long years of subservience and cowardice
weighed on the rude people to be against their oppressors.

We went up Nulla Mountain the same way as we remembered doing when Jim and I rode to meet father
that time he had the lot of weaners. We kept wide and didn't follow on after one another so
as to make a marked trail. It was a long, dark, dreary ride. We had to look sharp so as not
to get dragged off by a breast-high bough in the thick country. There was no fetching a doctor
if any one was hurt. Father rode ahead. He knew the ins and outs of the road better than any
of us, though Jim, who had lived most of his time in the Hollow after he got away from the
police, was getting to know it pretty well. We were obliged to go slow mostly--for a good deal
of the track lay along the bed of a creek, full of boulders and rocks, that we had to cross
ever so many times in a mile. The sharp-edged rocks, too, overhung low enough to knock your
brains out if you didn't mind.

It was far into the night when we got to the old yard. There it stood, just as I recollect
seeing it the time Jim and I and father branded the weaners. It had only been used once or
twice since. It was patched up a bit in places, but nobody seemed to have gone next or nigh
it for a long time. The grass had grown up round the sliprails; it was as strange and forsaken-looking
as if it belonged to a deserted station.

As we rode up a man comes out from an angle of the fence and gives a whistle. We knew, almost
without looking, that it was Warrigal. He'd come there to meet Starlight and take him round
some other way. Every track and short cut there was in the mountains was as easy to him as
the road to George Storefield's was to us. Nulla Mountain was full of curious gullies and caves
and places that the devil himself could hardly have run a man to ground in, unless he'd lived
near it all his life as Warrigal had. He wasn't very free in showing them to us, but he'd have
made a bridge of his own body any time to let Starlight go safe. So when they rode away together
we knew he was safe whoever might be after us, and that we should see him in the Hollow some
time next day.

We went on for a mile or two farther; then we got off, and turned our horses loose. The rest
of the way we had to do on foot. My horse and Jim's had got regularly broke into Rocky Flat,
and we knew that they'd go home as sure as possible, not quite straight, but keeping somewhere
in the right direction. As for father he always used to keep a horse or two, trained to go
home when he'd done with him. The pony he rode to-night would just trot off, and never put
his nose to the ground almost till he got wind of home.

We humped our saddles and swags ourselves; a stiffish load too, but the night was cool, and
we did our best. It was no use growling. It had to be done, and the sooner the better. It seemed
a long time--following father step by step--before we came to the place where I thought the
cattle were going to be driven over the precipice. Here we pulled up for a bit and had a smoke.
It was a queer time and a queer look-out. 

Had attended the universities of Lima and Cuzco, where he learned enough to excel among their peers.
Not content with the chiefdom, which was hereditary in his family, requested be recognized as
legitimate offspring of the ancient dynasties of Peru, and had already achieved resume the title of
Marquis of Oropesa who had led their predecessors. [3]

Concerned with ideas of revenge, he felt the need to gain renown, and poured his flow to become
customers. Also got in touch with the most influential people the clergy, whom he painted with
more colorful the humiliation suffered by the Indians. Moved by their complaints, the bishops of
La Paz, Cuzco, and other prelates of Peru, had King passed through Santelices, Governor of
Potosi, very inclined to favor the natives, whose votes were a big weight for the credit he enjoyed
at court. Carlos III, fair and magnanimous prince, had noted with interest these appeals, and to address
them rightly called with Santelices had to sit on its Board of India.

With so prosperous auspices, D. Blas Tupac-Amaru, José Gabriel immediate kinsman, went to Madrid
to request the suppression of the half and the deals.

All announced a happy ending, when the Grim Reaper's life cut short these philanthropists, not
without suspicion of having been poisoned.

Alone, and exposed to the resentment of those who had been reported, it was decided Tupac-Amaru
to grab a violent discretion. Hallab of mayor in the province of ink such a Arriaga, greedy
and inhuman man, who abused power to satisfy their unquenchable thirst for wealth. Become hateful
to the people whom he tyrannized, this was the first victim who was sacrificed. Under the pretext
of celebrating the day with pomp of the monarch, the chief drew him to Tungasuca, where instead
of entertainment I expected, was condemned to expiate their crimes
on the scaffold.

The same fate was reserved for the mayor of Quespicancha [4], which saved life, leaving their
rich stores, and more than 25,000 pesos that had collected in the coffers the Treasury.

These remains, spread generously among the troops, widened the sphere
of action of these disturbances. Public officials, following the example
of the magistrates, who were the main target of the animosity of the
people, forsook their posts, and let open the field to the rioters. It was a fine, clear morning; everything looked beautiful, 'specially to me
that had been locked up away from this sort of thing so long. The grass was thick and green
round the cave, and right up to the big sandstone slabs of the floor, looking as if it had
never been eat down very close. No more it had. It would never have paid to have overstocked
the Hollow. What cattle and horses they kept there had a fine time of it, and were always in
grand condition.

Opposite where we were the valley was narrow. I could see the sandstone precipices that walled
us in, a sort of yellowish, white colour, all lighted up with the rays of the morning sun,
looking like gold towers against the heavy green forest timber at the foot of them. Birds were
calling and whistling, and there was a little spring that fell drip, drip over a rough rock
basin all covered with ferns. A little mob of horses had fed pretty close up to the camp, and
would walk up to look curious-like, and then trot off with their heads and tails up. It was
a pretty enough sight that met my eyes on waking. It made me feel a sort of false happiness
for a time, to think we had such a place to camp in on the quiet, and call our own, in a manner
of speaking.

Jim soon woke up and stretched himself. Then father began, quite cheerful like--

'Well, boys, what d'ye think of the Hollow again? It's not a bad earth for the old dog-fox
and his cubs when the hounds have run him close. They can't dig him out here, or smoke him
out either. The neighborhood had
fled away in search of day labor servitude, looking to become a rich meadow influential public
lands that gave the bread to their families.

And this trouble of property, excessive and barbarous, was still tolerable in certain parts of Andalusia,
being by far the masters, living in Madrid on the income sent to them sharecroppers and administrators,
content with the proceeds of property which had not been and by extension
all yielded much luck.

But in Jerez, the rich over the poor was at all times, to make their influence felt. Centaur
was a tough, proud of his strength, which sought to combat, was intoxicated
on it and enjoyed defying the wrath of the hungry, to tame as the
wild horses in branding.

- The rich laborer here is that the worker
- Salvatierra said .-- His gallant animality and impulsive even more
painful misery.

Wealth was more visible there than elsewhere. Wine growers, owners warehouses, exporters, with
their extraordinary wealth and its ostentatious extravagance, embittered by the wretched poverty.

-
Those are two real one-man work all day - continued the revolutionary
- pay up to fifty thousand pieces by a renowned horse.

I've seen and I've seen a lot Gañanía blocks of Jerez, where they keep those beasts that are useless
and only serve to flatter the pride of their masters. Believe me, Fermín, is in this land thousands
of rational beings, that bed with aching bones on the mat of the farmhouse, converted to wake in
horses.

He absolutely hated not large estates.

It was a facility for communism of the earth, generous dream whose realization often thought
next. The smaller was the number of land owners, the more easily solve the problem and be interested
in unless the cries of the dispossessed.

But the solution was away, and meanwhile, indignábanle the growing poverty, abjection moral of the
servants of the earth. I was amazed at the blindness of the people happy clinging the past.
Taking possession of the land into small parts to workers, as in other regions of Spain, for
centuries retard the revolution in the fields. The small grower who loves his piece of land as
an extension of the family, is harsh and hostile to all innovation revolutionary, even more than the
real rich. Any new idea considered a threat to his poor welfare and fiercely repelled. Giving
those people the possession of the ground, delay the moment of supreme Justice dreamed of Salvatierra,
but even if it were, benefactor comforted his soul in mind momentary relief from misery. Arise
villages in the wilderness, those farms would disappear isolated, sullen appearance barracks or
prison, and the animals return to the mountains, leaving the flat for a living man.

But Fermin, listening to his master, shook his head with negative
signs.

- All remain the same - said the youth .-- The rich do not
care about the future, or believe any precautions needed to slow it
down.

Their eyes are on the neck, and if anything they see, is backwards.

As emerging leaders in their class and have at their service rifles we pay everyone laugh down
rebellions. Also, know the people.

- That which you say - Salvatierra said, - they know the people and not fear.

The revolutionary thought in the Maestrico at that boy who had been laboriously writing in light of the
candle, in the Gañanía of Matanzuela. Maybe that simple soul looked better the future through their
simple faith, which he with his anger, he longed to destroy immediately all evil. The first was to create
new men, before going to the deletion of outdated world. And thinking about the miserable and unwilling
crowd, he spoke with some sadness.

- In vain have tried to speed on this earth. The soul of our people
is the same that time of the domains. Stored in the depths the resignation
of the servant.

Not a pleasant letter, by no manner of means. I was glad I didn't get it while I was eating
my heart out under the stifling low roof of the cell at Nomah, or when I was bearing my load
at Berrima. A few pounds more when the weight was all I could bear and live would have crushed
the heart out of me. I didn't want anything to cross me when I was looking at mother and Aileen
and thinking how, between us, we'd done everything our worst enemy could have wished us to
do. But here, when there was plenty of time to think over old days and plan for the future,
I could bear the savage, spiteful sound of the whole letter and laugh at the way she had got
out of her troubles by taking up with a rough old fellow whose cheque-book was the only decent
thing about him. 

[165.] Seems to have excogitating the aforementioned distinction not seen in the precision of
admit infinite divisibility in natural bodies. Reflecting on this point is easy to see that
having the difficulty with regard to mathematical bodies, mystery Subsisting entirely philosophical.
This mystery is estimated that there may be a limit point to the division, while there is rather
extensive, and that if to signal this limit is reached simple points, then there is no way
to reconstitute the extension. For so the difficulty arises from the very nature of things large,
whether conceived and realized, and real order can not but suffer all the disadvantages of
the ideal. If dotted unextended no extension can be conceived, can not be the extension true,
and if the extension is not thought likely to limit its division until to simple points, what will
happen to own the real: these disadvantages of being born very essence of extension, are inseparable
from it.

CHAPTER XXIII.

POINTS unextended.

[166.] Against the existence of unextended points militate two powerful reasons: first, which
must involve the infinite in number, it does not seem possible otherwise, arriving to the
simple, based on the length, and second, that even if infinite in number, are unable to result
in the extension. These two reasons are so powerful that they excusable all musings to the contrary,
because no matter how strange they may seem, cease to be when compared
with the strangeness that is so simple form the extended, and that
any portion of matter is to be an infinite number of parts.

[167.] Does not seem possible to arrive at unextended points but going through an infinite division:
unextended it is zero in the order of the extension, and a decreasing geometric progression do
not get to zero but continuing it to infinity. What that tells us the mathematical calculation
makes us sensitive imagination. Wherever there are two parts together, there is a face which are touching,
and one on the outside that is not in contact. Separating internal outside, we find two new faces,
one contact and another not. Following the division, same thing happen to us, then to come
to the unextended, we have to go through a series infinite: in other words what to say that never
comes. By way to continue the division to infinity we are compelled to assume infinite parts, and
therefore, the existence of an infinite number today. From the moment we assume existing this
infinite number, it seems to us becomes finite, as we see and an end to the division, and above
all we see larger numbers than him. Suppose that the infinite number parts are in a cubic inch:
I say the numbers are larger than this course infinity: for example, a cubic foot contains 1728 times
the so-called infinite content in the cubic inch.

It follows that the opinion of unextended points, wanting to avoid the infinite division, is
to fall into it; and their opponents flee proposing unextended point
seems at last come to recognize its existence.

The imagination is lost, and the understanding is confused.

[168.] The other difficulty is no less intractable, suppose that we have come to the points unextended,
how can we reconstitute the extension? Unextended it is dimensionless, then by more join points
unextended form no extension. Imaginémenos who meet two points as neither occupy any place,
any more than fill the two together. Can not said to interpenetrate, as there is no penetration
when there is no extension, what should be say is that being all
zero in the order of extension, their sum, however large the number
of addends, it will not be anything extensive.

[169.] Here occurs a difficulty: it is true that only a sum of zero
results in zero; but it is something accepted among mathematicians,
that certain expressions equal to zero, can product taken for a finite
amount, if multiplied by the other infinite.

0 +0 +0 +0 + Nx0 = 0, but if we: (0 / M) = 0, and multiply the expression by (M / 0) = infinity
result (0 / M) x (M / 0) = (0xM) / (Mx0) = (0 / 0) which can be equal either to a finite amount,
which will express by A. This demonstrates even with single elementary principles of algebra,
and passing to the sublime, we have (dz / dx) = (0 / 0) = B, expressing
the differential coefficient B, which can be a finite value.

"These doctrines mathematics can help explain the generation of long, starting from unextended
points? I think not.

Since then jumps to the eyes, not being the multiplication rather than an addition abbreviated
if an infinite addition of zeros can not give more than zero, nor can be otherwise the multiplication,
but the other factor is infinite. Why then the mathematical results tell us otherwise? It is
true that there is such a contradiction, it is only apparent. In the propagation of infinitesimal
by the infinite product can be obtained by a number finite, because the infinitesimal is not
considered as a true zero, but a number less than every imaginable, but it's still something.
From the moment you are missing to this condition, all operations would be absurd, because nothing
would be on a cigar. Shall we say by this that the expressions (dz / dx) = (0 / 0) are only
approximate? No, because express the relation of the limit of decreasing, which verifies that
it is equal to B, only when the differentials are equal to zero, but as the geometer does not
consider more than the limit itself jumps all the intervals of decrease, and placed course
at the point where the real accuracy.

Why then operates on these amounts? because the operations are a kind of algebraic language that
mark the path that has followed in the calculations, and recall the bond limit to the amount
to which it relates.

[170.] In the unit, not a number, is the number. Why no extension points can not be the Chapter? The
disparity is large. In unextended, as such, does not enter rather than the negative perception
of the extension, but the unit, while it denied the number, denial is not their nature, nobody
has ever defined the unit to "the negation of number 'and all the unextended define "what has
not extension." Unity is a be any taken in general, not considering it, division, and the number
is a set of units, then the idea of ​​entering the unit number of an undivided being, not being
but the number that repetition of this unit.

Every number is fixed in the unit, through what is number it is contained
in a particular way: the length can not be resolved in unextended,
but proceeding to infinity, or making the decomposition in a way that
we not reached.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A GUESS ON THE TRANSCENDENTAL NOTION OF THE EXTENSION.

[171.] Arguments militating both for and against unextended points, and the infinite divisibility
of matter, they all seem conclusive: so that the understanding as they have encountered suspicious
shows contradictory. Cree find absurd in infinite divisibility, absurd, if he says limits, absurd,
denies the points unextended, absurd, if supported. When attacking the contrary opinion feel
invincible; but their strength becomes profound weakness, as soon as you establish and defend
own. Yet the reason can not contradict: two contradictory demonstrations would be the contradiction
of reason itself and would be to their utter ruin, the contradiction since there can not exist, but
in appearance. But where is the knot?

How unleashed? Who can get flatter? Heavy reliance on this point would a sure sign of a lack of
understanding the state of the question, and vanity would stay punished resulting convinced ignorant.
With these caveats, let me give some comments about this mysterious question.

[172.] I am inclined to believe that research on the first elements of matter you have a mistake
it impossible to reach the result. If the extension is sought Points can be unextended, and the
method used is to imagine approximate and see if they can fill some of the space. This in my
view, be equivalent to denial that correspond to the statement. Unextended point is given us nothing,
but the denial of the extension, when we require it to deal with other space require you to be unextended
is extensive. There seems to be here a game of imagination makes us assume the extension, in
the very act that is intended to assist his generation primitive. The space, as you see it,
is a true extension, and second I said, is the idea of ​​the extension in full generality: they
pretend it has to fill unextended space, is to require the extension not to become extension.
It is true that this is precisely what is requested, and that, therefore, here's the whole
point of the difficulty, but The mistake seems to be that this difficulty
is the want to solve by the simple juxtaposition method, and therefore
it requires something unextended points obviously contradictory.

[173.] To find out about the regeneration of the extension, it would need to be able to remove
all sensible representations of all the ideas that are more or less affected by phenomenon, and
to move to the contemplation of the same reality as simple eye with look as sharp as a pure spirit, it
would be necessary that all geometric ideas forms could shed phenomenal, I mean of all representations
of the imagination; and offer the refined understanding of everything that mixes with the sensible
order, would need to know to what extent the extension, the real
continuity, is in line with the phenomenal that is, the perceived
object delete everything that is related to the subject that perceives.

[174.]

We saw that in the course were two things: variety and continuity; respect to the first, we
make no difficulty arising from the unextended points: provided there are multiple units, is the
number, are those simple or compound. The secret is in continuity, in that it presents sensible
intuition as clear as the basis of the representations of the imagination, and yet the understanding
entangled with inextricable ties. Perhaps you could say that continuity, regardless of representation
sensible and considered only in the transcendent order that is in reality as can be offered to a pure
spirit, is nothing more than the constant ratio of many beings, which are of such nature that
may occur in the sensitive being the phenomenon called representation, and be perceived in that
intuition which is like your recipent and is called representation space.

With this scenario, the extension in the external world is real, not
just as a principle of causality of our impressions, but as an object
subjected to the necessary relationships we conceive.

[175.] But then, you ask, does the external world is as we imagine?
should respond to this by noting that according to what has been said
when dealing with sensations, it is necessary to deprive him of what
these are subjective, and that an innocent illusion, became a target
and that, as to the extension, there was actually of us, regardless
of our feelings, but, considered in itself, has no nothing that this
attribute, but what they perceive the pure understanding, without
mixing any sensible representation.

[176.] There appears to be no objection to support this theory, which states at once reality of
the corporeal world and dispel the difficulties of the most unalloyed idealism. To present in
a few words my opinion I will say that the extension itself, the whole universe in itself, is
known as God, and in the knowledge of God does not mix any of these representations sensitive
who is always accompanied by our weak perception.

In this case, the remainder of the extension is positive in a certain order multiplicity constant.
The continuity itself is nothing more than this order, and as significantly represented in
us, is a purely subjective that does not affect reality.

[177.] Until you can point to a reason that we have been given sensible intuition. Our soul is
linked to an organized body, ie a set of beings associated with relationship consistent among
themselves and with other bodies in the universe. For harmony is not broken and the soul who presided
over the organization to exercise his functions as appropriate, needed
it to have a continuous representation of the whole body relations
themselves and to strangers.

This representation should be simultaneous, and independent of intellectual combinations: for without
this was not possible to exercise the powers animals, with the promptness and perseverance that
requires the satisfaction of needs life. For this reason we will be given to all sentient beings,
even the short of reason, the intuition of the extension or space, which is to be in the living
as a limitless field where portray different parts of the universe.

CHAPTER XXV.

ORDER HARMONY REAL, GREAT, and ideals.

[178.] In the external world we can consider two kinds: one real,
another phenomenal, the One is its own absolute: the second is relative
to the being who perceives the phenomenon by First, the world is,
for the second, appears.

A pure intellectual being knows what the world is a being that appears sensible experience.
In ourselves we can see this duality as sensitive, we experience the phenomenon: as smart as
we know the reality, we strive to descry by through reasoning and
conjecture.

[179.] The external world in its real nature, quite apart from the phenomenal is not an illusion.
Their existence is known to us not only the phenomena but also for
the principles of pure understanding, superior to all individual and
contingent.

These principles, data supported an experience, that is, sensations whose existence we witness
the inner sense, we ensure that the objectivity of sensation, or the reality of an external
world, is true.

[180.] The distinction between essential and accidental, and between the absolute and relative
was known at school.

The extension was not considered as the essence of bodies, but as an accident, the relations
of the body with our senses, were not supported immediately in essence, but in accidents. The
essence of bodies, constituted matter and substantial form together: the material receiving
the form, and acting as matter. Neither the matter nor the substantial form were immediately obvious
to the sense, this perception needed for the determination of the figure and other accidents
than the essence of the body.

So sensitive objects scholastics distinguished three classes: own,
common and accident: proprium, commune, et per accidens.

Itself is offered immediately to sense, and is not seen but one: the color, sound, smell, and
taste. The common, is perceived by various senses, as the figure, which is the subject of sight
and touch. The accidental, or per accidens, is not directly perceived by any sense, which
is hidden under the sensible qualities, and we discover through of these, such as substances.
Per accidens sensible, is linked with the sensible qualities; but these do not offer an understanding
as the original image, but as a sign the thing signified. Here is that the sensible per accidens,
no emission was supposed species to reduce the act to the faculties of sensation: it was rather sensible
intelligible.

[181.] In the corporeal universe, considered in its essence, there
is no need to assume anything which is similar to the sensible representation,
but it is necessary to assume a correspondence between the object
and the idea, otherwise it would be necessary to admit that geometrical
truths can be refuted by experience.

[182.] Although the extension is not more than an order of beings that we can not be perfect
concept, not possible to debug Serna any form sensible ideas, this
order must correspond to our ideas, and even to our sensible representations,
as necessary to verify the truth of ideas.

It is evident that the phenomenal order, although other than real, is nevertheless bound by it
and depends on it, by law constant: if we assume that there is a parallel between reality and
the phenomenon, and in that no There are all necessary conditions to meet the demands of this,
there is no reason why the phenomena are subject to constant laws, and not suffer in our experience
continuous disturbances. Not assuming a fixed and constant correspondence between reality and
appearance, the world we are thrown into chaos, and we find it impossible any constantly experience
orderly.

[183.] Unwrap the preceding observation. One of the elementary propositions geometry says the vertex
opposite angles are equal. To demonstrate its truth, I need internal intuition of two intersecting
lines extending from both sides, but the proposition geometry is
not limited to any particular those intuitions, but extends to all
the imaginable, with no limit on their number, without any determination
as to measure angles or to the length of the lines, nor to their position
in space.

Behold the pure idea, encompassing countless cases, where no sensible intuition is more than
one, if it is a time, and several isolation, in the case of representations succession. The understanding
is not confined to state this relationship between ideas, but the same applies to reality, and says
wherever they perform the conditions of this ideal order, be verified in the same real I'm
seeing in my ideas, and if these conditions not performed accurately, in proportion of this
will be checked more or less the relationship expressed: the more delicate than the actual
lines are cut, the closer to perfection, as to be straight, much more about the relationship
be verified equal angles. This belief is based on the principle of contradiction, which would be distorted
if the motion is verified, and is confirmed by experience, as it can somehow reach the conditions
stipulated in the order ideal.

[184.] Now, in reality what is it that corresponds to that proposition? line real or existing,
will be an order of beings, two intersecting lines are two orders of beings, with a particular
relationship, the angle will be the result of this relationship, or rather the relationship
same, and equal opposite angle is the correspondence of these relations on account equality,
for the continuation of the same order in another way. This set of relationships between the orders of
beings, and the correspondence of these orders to each other, is
what in reality corresponds to the pure geometrical idea, or rather
to the whole idea of ​​separate representation sensitive.

As long as the relations of the idea have their corresponding objects in the relations of reality,
the geometry exists not only in the ideal order but also in the real. As the phenomenon, or is
the sensible representation, is subject to the same conditions the idea, having also in the order
of phenomena in certain relations the same reason that the idea and in fact, will line the idea
and reality of the phenomenon, and explained why the intellectual order is confirmed by the experience,
and this in turn receives all the address of that security.

[185.] This harmony must have a cause, it is necessary to find a principle which can be found
sufficient reason for this remarkable agreement among so many different things, and here there
are new problems that overwhelm some other understanding and widen it and encourage him, with the
magnificent spectacle before their eyes, and the vast field that give to go.

CHAPTER XXVI.

NATURE OF THE REAL ORDER RELATIONS WITH THE GREAT.

[186.] The agreement of the idea of ​​the phenomenon and reality, is it necessary, that is founded
the essence of things, or has been set free by the will of the Creator?

If the world had no more true than that expressed by the sensible
representation, if appearances included a carbon copy of the inner
essence of things, would need say that this agreement is unchangeable,
that things are nothing more than what they seem, and that assuming
they exist, must be such as they seem, and this of absolute necessity,
because that nothing can be in contradiction with its notion of incorporation.

What is now extensive, would necessarily be large, and can not fail to be the same way that it
seems to us, and under the same conditions: the relation of bodies
to each other would be necessarily subject to the same laws phenomenal:
all that was to depart from this order would be a contradiction, that
does not fall under the power or omnipotence.

[187.] The bodies appear to us in sensible intuition with amounts determined and are in some
fixed ratio, which we calculated and compared with a stationary extension, which we imagine
space. Due to the magnitude bodies occupy a certain place, also determined but changeable with movement.
On the relation of magnitudes, occupy greater or lesser place, and self-mutually exclusive:
we call this exclusion impenetrability. The question offered here is the following: the determination
of magnitudes, and the relationship of them with respect to the occupation of places, are things that
are absolutely necessary so alteration wrap your contradiction? not.

[188.] The relationship at all, considering this as a portion of pure space, does not mean nothing, for
we have already seen that this space is not more than a mere abstraction of our understanding, and
that in itself has no reality, is nothing. Then the relationship to him, is also nothing on
account of the relationship is zero when the term needed to be ordered. Then all the relations
of bodies to the places, can not be anything but relations bodies together.

[189.] This is the main point of view on these issues, the understanding is confused when it starts
by assuming the space an absolute nature, necessary relationships with all bodies. Remember
the doctrine of the chapters (XII, XIII, XIV and XV) where explains how to engender in us the
idea of ​​space, which object corresponds to the reality and how, and they will see that these
relations absolute and essential, we find among the bodies and an empty capacity and real, are illusions
of our imagination, an effect that we treat not quite the ideal order,
that does not separate from sense impressions.

In these questions, you can not understand anything, not even the sense of them, if not make
an effort to achieve this separation, as far as possible to our nature. If this is achieved, the issues
I shall discuss in subsequent chapters, seem very philosophical, and its resolution, if not
true, at least plausible, but if confuse things as different as are the purely intellectual
order, and sensitive issues such seem absurd. It is unacceptable idealism that destroys the
real world, but it is nevertheless empiricism that annihilates the ideal order, if we could
not rise above representations sensitive, we should renounce the philosophy, leaving the thinking,
and limiting ourselves to feel.
 I don't
say we regularly went in for drinking; but we began to want it by twelve o'clock every day,
and to keep things going after that till bedtime. In the morning we felt nervous and miserable;
on the whole we weren't very gay till the sun was over the foreyard.

Anyhow, we made it up to clear out and have the first go-in for a touch on the southern line
the next week as ever was. Father was as eager for it as anybody. He couldn't content himself
with this sort of Robinson Crusoe life any longer, and said he must have a run and a bit of
work of some sort or he'd go mad. This was on the Saturday night. Well, on Sunday we sent Warrigal
out to meet one of our telegraphs at a place about twenty miles off, and to bring us any information
he could pick up and a newspaper. He came back about sundown that evening, and told us that
the police had been all over the country after us, and that Government had offered 200 Pounds
reward for our apprehension--mine and Starlight's--with 50 Pounds each for Warrigal and Jim.
They had an idea we'd all shipped for America. He sent us a newspaper. There was some news;
that is, news worth talking about. Here was what was printed in large letters on the outside:--

                   WONDERFUL DISCOVERY OF GOLD AT THE TURON.

We have much pleasure in informing our numerous constituents that gold, similar in character
and value to that of San Francisco, has been discovered on the Turon River by those energetic
and experienced practical miners, Messrs. Hargraves and party. The method of cradling is the
same, the appliances required are simple and inexpensive, and the proportional yield of gold
highly reassuring. It is impossible to forecast the results of this most momentous discovery.
It will revolutionise the new world. It will liberate the old. It will precipitate Australia
into a nation.

Meanwhile numberless inconveniences, even privations, will arise--to be endured unflinchingly--to
be borne in silence. But courage, England, we have hitherto achieved victory.

This news about the gold breaking out in such a place as the Turon made a great difference
in our notions. We hardly knew what to think at first. The whole country seemed upside down.
Warrigal used to sneak out from time to time, and come back open-mouthed, bringing us all sorts
of news. Everybody, he said, was coming up from Sydney. There would be nobody left there but
the Governor. What a queer start--the Governor sitting lonely in a silent Government House,
in the middle of a deserted city! We found out that it was true after we'd made one or two
short rides out ourselves. Afterwards the police had a deal too much to do to think of us.
We didn't run half the chance of being dropped on to that we used to do. The whole country
was full of absconders and deserters, servants, shepherds, shopmen, soldiers, and sailors--all
running away from their work, and making in a blind sort of way for the diggings, like a lot
of caterpillars on the march.

We had more than half a notion about going there ourselves, but we turned it over in our minds,
and thought it wouldn't do. We should be sure to be spotted anywhere in New South Wales. All
the police stations had our descriptions posted up, with a reward in big letters on the door.
Even if we were pretty lucky at the start we should always be expecting them to drop on us.
As it was, we should have twenty times the chance among the coaches, that were sure to be loaded
full up with men that all carried cash, more or less; you couldn't travel then in the country
without it. We had twice the pull now, because so many strangers, that couldn't possibly be
known to the police, were straggling over all the roads. There was no end of bustle and rush
in every line of work and labour. Money was that plentiful that everybody seemed to be full
of it. Gold began to be sent down in big lots, by the Escort, as it was called--sometimes ten
thousand ounces at a time. That was money if you liked--forty thousand pounds!--enough to make
one's mouth water--to make one think dad's prophecy about the ten thousand pounds wasn't so
far out after all.

Just at the start most people had a kind of notion that the gold would only last a short time,
and that things would be worse than before. But it lasted a deal longer than any of us expected.
It was 1850 that I'm talking about. It's getting on for 1860 now, and there seems more of it
about than ever there was.

Most of our lives we'd been used to the southern road, and we kept to it still. It wasn't right
in the line of the gold diggings, but it wasn't so far off. It was a queer start when the news
got round about to the other colonies, after that to England, and I suppose all the other old
world places, but they must have come by ship-loads, the road was that full of new chums--we
could tell 'em easy by their dress, their fresh faces, their way of talk, their thick sticks,
and new guns and pistols. Some of them you'd see dragging a hand-cart with another chap, and
they having all their goods, tools, and clothes on it. Then there'd be a dozen men, with a
horse and cart, and all their swags in it. If the horse jibbed at all, or stuck in the deep
ruts--and wasn't it a wet season?--they'd give a shout and a rush, and tear out cart and horse
and everything else. They told us that there were rows of ships in Sydney Harbour without a
soul to take care of them; that the soldiers were running away to the diggings just as much
as the sailors; clergymen and doctors, old hands and new chums, merchants and lawyers. They
all seemed as if they couldn't keep away from the diggings that first year for their lives.

All stock went up double and treble what they were before. Cattle and sheep we didn't mind
about. We could do without them now. But the horse market rose wonderfully, and that made a
deal of odds to us, you may be sure.

It was this way. Every man that had a few pounds wanted a horse to ride or drive; every miner
wanted a wash-dirt cart and a horse to draw it. The farmer wanted working horses, for wasn't
hay sixty or seventy pounds a ton, and corn what you liked to ask for it? Every kind of harness
horse was worth forty, fifty, a hundred pounds apiece, and only to ask it; some of 'em weedy
and bad enough, Heaven knows. So between the horse trade and the road trade we could see a
fortune sticking out, ready for us to catch hold of whenever we were ready to collar.

Chapter 24

Our first try-on in the coach line was with the Goulburn mail. We knew the road pretty well,
and picked out a place where they had to go slow and couldn't get off the road on either side.
There's always places like that in a coach road near the coast, if you look sharp and lay it
out beforehand. This wasn't on the track to the diggings, but we meant to leave that alone
till we got our hand in a bit. There was a lot of money flying about the country in a general
way where there was no sign of gold. All the storekeepers began to get up fresh goods, and
to send money in notes and cheques to pay for them. The price of stock kept dealers and fat
cattle buyers moving, who had their pockets full of notes as often as not.

Just as you got nearly through Bargo Brush on the old road there was a stiffish hill that the
coach passengers mostly walked up, to save the horses--fenced in, too, with a nearly new three-rail
fence, all ironbark, and not the sort of thing that you could ride or drive over handy. We
thought this would be as good a place as we could pick, so we laid out the whole thing as careful
as we could beforehand.

The three of us started out from the Hollow as soon as we could see in the morning; a Friday
it was, I remember it pretty well--good reason I had, too. Father and Warrigal went up the
night before with the horses we were to ride. They camped about twenty miles on the line we
were going, at a place where there was good feed and water, but well out of the way and on
a lonely road. There had been an old sheep station there and a hut, but the old man had been
murdered by the hut-keeper for some money he had saved, and a story got up that it was haunted
by his ghost. It was known as the 'Murdering Hut', and no shepherd would ever live there after,
so it was deserted. We weren't afraid of shepherds alive or dead, so it came in handy for us,
as there was water and feed in an old lambing paddock. Besides, the road to it was nearly all
a lot of rock and scrub from the Hollow, that made it an unlikely place to be tracked from.

Our dodge was to take three quiet horses from the Hollow and ride them there, first thing;
then pick up our own three--Rainbow and two other out-and-outers--and ride bang across the
southern road. When things were over we were to start straight back to the Hollow. We reckoned
to be safe there before the police had time to know which way we'd made.

It all fitted in first-rate. We cracked on for the Hollow in the morning early, and found dad
and Warrigal all ready for us. The horses were in great buckle, and carried us over to Bargo
easy enough before dark. We camped about a mile away from the road, in as thick a place as
we could find, where we made ourselves as snug as things would allow. We had brought some grub
with us and a bottle of grog, half of which we finished before we started out to spend the
evening. We hobbled the horses out and let them have an hour's picking. They were likely to
want all they could get before they saw the Hollow again.

It was near twelve o'clock when we mounted. Starlight said--

'By Jove, boys, it's a pity we didn't belong to a troop of irregular horse instead of this
rotten colonial Dick Turpin business, that one can't help being ashamed of. They would have
been delighted to have recruited the three of us, as we ride, and our horses are worth best
part of ten thousand rupees. What a tent-pegger Rainbow would have made, eh, old boy?' he said,
patting the horse's neck. 'But Fate won't have it, and it's no use whining.'

The coach was to pass half-an-hour after midnight. An awful long time to wait, it seemed. We
finished the bottle of brandy, I know. I thought they never would come, when all of a sudden
we saw the lamp.

Up the hill they came slow enough. About half-way up they stopped, and most of the passengers
got out and walked up after her. As they came closer to us we could hear them laughing and
talking and skylarking, like a lot of boys. They didn't think who was listening. 'You won't
be so jolly in a minute or two,' I thinks to myself.

They were near the top when Starlight sings out, 'Stand! Bail up!' and the three of us, all
masked, showed ourselves. You never saw a man look so scared as the passenger on the box-seat,
a stout, jolly commercial, who'd been giving the coachman Havana cigars, and yarning and nipping
with him at every house they passed. Bill Webster, the driver, pulls up all standing when he
sees what was in Starlight's hand, and holds the reins so loose for a minute I thought they'd
drop out of his hands. I went up to the coach. There was no one inside--only an old woman and
a young one. They seemed struck all of a heap, and couldn't hardly speak for fright.

The best of the joke was that the passengers started running up full split to warm themselves,
and came bump against the coach before they found out what was up. One of them had just opened
out for a bit of blowing. 'Billy, old man,' he says, 'I'll report you to the Company if you
crawl along this way,' when he catches sight of me and Starlight, standing still and silent,
with our revolvers pointing his way. By George! I could hardly help laughing. His jaw dropped,
and he couldn't get a word out. His throat seemed quite dry.

'Now, gentlemen,' says Starlight, quite cool and cheerful-like, 'you understand her Majesty's
mail is stuck up, to use a vulgar expression, and there's no use resisting. I must ask you
to stand in a row there by the fence, and hand out all the loose cash, watches, or rings you
may have about you. Don't move; don't, I say, sir, or I must fire.' (This was to a fidgety,
nervous man who couldn't keep quiet.) 'Now, Number One, fetch down the mail bags; Number Two,
close up here.'

Here Jim walked up, revolver in hand, and Starlight begins at the first man, very stern--

'Hand out your cash; keep back nothing, if you value your life.'

You never saw a man in such a funk. He was a storekeeper, we found afterwards. He nearly dropped
on his knees. Then he handed Starlight a bundle of notes, a gold watch, and took a handsome
diamond ring from his finger. This Starlight put into his pocket. He handed the notes and watch
to Jim, who had a leather bag ready for them. The man sank down on the ground; he had fainted.

He was left to pick himself up. No. 2 was told to shell out. They all had something. Some had
sovereigns, some had notes and small cheques, which are as good in a country place. The squatters
draw too many to know the numbers of half that are out, so there's no great chance of their
being stopped. There were eighteen male passengers, besides the chap on the box-seat. We made
him come down. By the time we'd got through them all it was best part of an hour.

I pulled the mail bags through the fence and put them under a tree. Then Starlight went to
the coach where the two women were. He took off his hat and bowed.

'Unpleasant necessity, madam, most painful to my feelings altogether, I assure you. I must
really ask you--ah--is the young lady your daughter, madam?'

'Not at all,' says the oldest, stout, middle-aged woman; 'I never set eyes on her before.'

'Indeed, madam,' says Starlight, bowing again; 'excuse my curiosity, I am desolated, I assure
you, but may I trouble you for your watches and purses?'

'As you're a gentleman,' said the fat lady, 'I fully expected you'd have let us off. I'm Mrs.
Buxter, of Bobbrawobbra.'

'Indeed! I have no words to express my regret,' says Starlight; 'but, my dear lady, hard necessity
compels me. Thanks, very much,' he said to the young girl.

She handed over a small old Geneva watch and a little purse. The plump lady had a gold watch
with a chain and purse to match.

'Is that all?' says he, trying to speak stern.

'It's my very all,' says the girl, 'five pounds. Mother gave me her watch, and I shall have
no money to take me to Bowning, where I am going to a situation.'

Her lips shook and trembled and the tears came into her eyes.

Starlight carefully handed Mrs. Buxter's watch and purse to Jim. I saw him turn round and open
the other purse, and he put something in, if I didn't mistake. Then he looked in again.

'I'm afraid I'm rather impertinent,' says he, 'but your face, Miss--ah--Elmsdale, thanks--reminds
me of some one in another world--the one I once lived in. Allow me to enjoy the souvenir and
to return your effects. No thanks; that smile is ample payment. Ladies, I wish you a pleasant
journey.'

He bowed. Mrs. Buxter did not smile, but looked cross enough at the young lady, who, poor thing,
seemed pretty full up and inclined to cry at the surprise. Good-night!'

The driver gathered up his reins and shouted to his team, that was pretty fresh after their
spell, and went off like a shot. We are like fish in the sea, do you understand, capers? Fish living in
the same water in which dissolved his grandparents and the germs that beat their successors.
Our water is the environment in which we exist: space and earth live surrounded by those who
were and those who will. And I, capers friend, when I feel like to mourn no one remembering
the mound, the sad futility of the florets surrounding it, I think mom is not there completely, that
something has escaped, be moving through life, I encountered friendliness attracted to a mysterious,
and accompanies me by engaging in touch as soft as a kiss ... "Lie," a voice yells at me thinking.
But I desoigo, I dream, I invent beautiful lies for my comfort. Maybe in this breeze brushes we face,
there is something gentle and trembling hands I caressed one last time before going to prison.

The
gypsy had ceased to moan, watching their eyes African Salvatierra, enlarged by amazement. I
did not understand most of his words, but discerned in them a hope.

-
According to this, do you think your market that Mari-Cru has not
completely died too?

What can I watch it even when ajogue me your memory? ...

Salvatierra he felt influenced by the cries of the family, the agony he had seen, by the misery
of that body that swayed a few steps inside the car.

Poetry Sad night, the silence torn at intervals by screams of pain flooded his soul.

If, capers he feel about his beloved dead.

Some of it would go up to her face as a perfume, plowing the earth with the hoe and the groove
again send his nose the freshness of the soil removed. Some would also its soul in the ears
of wheat, poppies red dripping gold flanks of the harvest, the birds singing at dawn when the
human herd going into the pit, in the bushes of the mountain, about fluttering insects which
frightened by racing mares and snorting bulls.

- Who knows - went on the rebel - whether those stars which appear
as blinking your eyes high, there is something at this time of the
light of those other eyes that you loved so much, capers?

...

But the look of astonishment betrayed Roma, who had some compassion, as if he thought crazy Salvatierra.

-
You scared the greatness of the world, compared to the smallness
of your poor dead, and back.

The glass is too big for a tear is true. But the drop is lost the sea ... and yet there it is.

Salvatierra
went on, as if to convince himself. What was the greatness or smallness? In a drop of liquid
were millions upon millions of beings, all life own: as many as men
roamed the planet.

And one of these agencies infinitesimal enough to kill a human being, to decimate a nation with the
epidemic. Why not were to influence men, microbes of the infinite, in that universe, within
which was the force of his personality? ...

After the revolution seemed to doubt his words, repent of them.

- Perhaps this belief is tantamount to cowardice: you can not understand
me, capers.

But Ay! Death! The mystery, spy us and follows us, mocking our superb and our satisfaction! ...
I despise it, I laugh at it, I hope without fear to rest than once, and me, lots. But men love,
and love makes us tremble for those around us, destroy our energy, makes us fall flat on his face,
trembling cowards before that witch, inventing a thousand lies, to console us for their crimes.
Oh, unless you love! ... What animal would be as brave and fearless man!

The car, rattling his departure, had left the gypsy and Salvatierra,
who stopped to speak.

And did not see him. Served as their guide their distant chirp and family plan, marching behind, rushing
back the bass motion of your pain.

- Bye, Mari-Cru! - Shouted the little ones, as acolytes of a religion .-- funeral has been
killed our cousin! ...

And when they were silent for a moment, turned to sound the voice
of the old, desperate, shrill, as the pain of a priest.

- Gone is
the white dove, the gypsy durs, the rose bud before opening!

... Sr. God! What do you think that only the good ajogas? ...

VII

On reaching the vintages with the month of September, the wealthy
were more concerned Jerez the attitude of the workers who the good
result of the collection.

In The Circle Caballista, even more cheerful gentlemen forgot the merits of their ponies, the
excellence of their dogs and the elegance of the girls whose ownership is disputed, not speak
only of those people tanned, weathered by the penalties, dirty, smelly and resentful eyes that provided
arms to their vineyards.

In many societies, recreational occupied almost all lower Long Street, not talking about something
else. What else wanted the workers in the vineyards? ... Wages earned real ten, ate the stew
in bowls that they were settled without the love intervene, they had an hour off in winter and
two in summer, to avoid choking limestone on the sparks flying, they gave up eight cigarettes
per day and slept at night, most of them having a blanket over cattail mats. A true connoisseurs
of such tenants, "and still complained and demanded reforms threaten with the strike? ...

In the horse, which owned the vineyard showed themselves suddenly softened by piety, and spoke of
the farmhands of the estates. Those poor things were really deserving better luck! Two real wages,
a ranch across tasteless food and sleep in Dresses soil, less warm than the beasts. It was
logical for them to complain, not vineyard workers who lived as if they were gentlemen compared
to the farmhands.

But the owners of the estates protested indignantly, seeing that they intended to throw on them
all the weight of the danger. If not reciprocated bracero better, because the product was farmhouse
was not for more. Could compare wheat, barley and cattle with those famous vineyards in the world,
throwing gold gushing from its branches, and in certain years gave their owners a profit if saliesen
easier to steal from the roads? ... When rejoiced in such a fortune was to be generous, give
a little of welfare parle they supported their efforts. Workers complained
with good reason.

And the gatherings of the rich, passed in a continuous fight between the owners the two sides.

His
life of leisure had become paralyzed. The wheel stood still, the cards were not open on the green
table, spent the best girls on the sidewalk without windows overlook
groups the heads casinos throwing compliments and sly winks.

The concierge of the Horse, he was crazy looking for the key to what is pompously titled library in the
articles of association: a hidden closet in the darkest corner of the home, poor foolish as cupboard,
showing through their windows dusty and cobwebbed, a few dozen books that no one had opened. The
lords they felt stung partners suddenly by the desire to learn, to train for what they called social
question and every evening watching the closet as a tabernacle of science, hoping to appear
the key to seek her inside the light they wanted.

It was not really big its rush learn from those things that brought socialism to the workers
scrambled.

Some were outraged to read the books before. Lies, all lies, to embitter existence! They did
not read and were happy. Why do not they do the same those Silly camp, which took off hours at night
to his dream of forming a circle around Comrade they read newspapers and pamphlets? The man, the
more ignorant, more blissful ... Y Abomination looks threw the closet of books, like a reservoir
of evil, while keeping the cabinet was unhappy in her womb a wealth of volumes harmless given
away for the most part by the Ministry at the request of deputy district;
verses the Virgin Mary, and patriotic song books, guides for the breeding
of canary and rules the domestic rabbit reproduction.

While the rich vied with each other or be outraged by examining the claims of workers, they remained
in an attitude of protest. The strike had begun in part, with a lack of cohesion showed the spontaneity
of the resistance.

In some vineyards owners, driven by fear of losing the harvest, "passed around", but stroking
in the rancorous mind the hope of retaliation and that the clusters were at the winery.

Other, richer, "they were ashamed," as stated in knightly arrogance, refusing to any settlement with
the rebels.

Don Paul Dupont was the most spirited of them. Lost before her store to get out to that mob.
Irle impositions with him, he was the father of her workers, and caring not only for supporting
your body, but the health of your almo, freeing the "crass materialism!"

- It is a "matter of principle" - declared on your desktop to employees,
who moved yes the head even before he spoke .-- I am able to give
them what they want, and more.

But do not ask me, that I require! This is to deny my sacred rights of love ... To me the money
I care little, and the proof is that rather than give, the better I harvest is lost Marchamalo.

And Dupont, aggressive in defending what he called his rights, not only refused to hear claims
of the laborers, but was expelled from the vineyard to all that is
meant as long before agitators who tried to rebel.

Marchamalo remained in very few tenants, but Dupont had replaced the
strikers Jerez with Gypsy and girls coming from the mountains to the
abundant bait wages.

As the harvest did not require great hardships, Marchamalo was full of women crouched cutting
slopes in clusters, while from the way the strikers insulted private work for his "ideas."

The rebellion of the laborers had coincided with what Louis Dupont entitled his period seriously.

The
skull had ended by surprise with its cousin, the powerful new behavior ... No women and scandals!
La Marquesa and did not remember him, offended by its detours, had become to join the pig handler,
"the only man who could make it go."

The gentleman looked sad when he talked about his famous binges. It
had gone forever: no one could be young forever.

Now he was a man, but seriously man and useful. He had something in his head, his former teachers,
the Fathers of the Company recognized him. I did not think stopping on his way to conquer a
position as high politics as his cousin was in the industry. Other, more wicked than himself,
ran land issues and were heard by the government, back in Madrid, as viceroys of the country.

Of past life preserved only with the brave friendships, strengthening
their courtship new bullies.

The pampered and kept for the purpose of which will serve as backup in his political career.
Who would face his first election, seeing him in so honored company! ... And to entertain
the honorable court, was dining at the grocery and getting drunk
with them.

This does not undermine their respectability. An occasional Jumer was no reason so that no
one is shocked. Customs of the earth! In addition, this gave some popularity.

And Louis Dupont, convinced of the importance of his person, going
from one casino to another speaking the "social question" with vehement
gesticulations that endangered the bottles and glasses line the tables.

Caballista

shunned in the Circle gatherings of young people, which only reminded him of his past follies
to applaud, suggesting larger ones. He sought the conversation "Parents serious', the great planters
and wealthy farmers, who began to hear with some attention, recognizing that he had a good head
Perdis.

Dupont hinchábase with vehement speech by talking about the country's workers. Repeating what
he had heard from his cousin and religious who frequented the house of Dupont, but exaggerating
solutions, with an authoritarian and brutal burning to the taste of his hearers, so rude people
as rich, who found pleasure in breaking down bulls and tame wild horses.

For Luis, the question was very simple. A little charity, and then religion, many religions, and
stick to it gets out. With this social conflict had just called and was all as a mill pond. How
could they complain about the workers, where there were men as his cousin and many of those present
(here the audience appreciative smiles and movements approval), which
was charitable to a fault and unfortunately could not attend without
reaching into his pocket and give a hard, and even two?

...

Answered rebels this charity was not enough, and that, despite this, many people lived in poverty.
What could the owners to remedy what was hopeless? Always there would be rich and poor, hungry
and sated, only the insane or criminals could dream of equality.

Equality! ... Dupont used a ironic that his audience excited. All jokes that the noblest of human
aspirations had inspired his cousin Paul and his court priests, repetíalos
Luis with a very firm conviction, as if they were the summary of universal
thinking.

What was that for equality? ... Anyone could grab home, if he liked, and he, in turn, would steal
the neighbor's jacket, because it was necessary, and the other would
take the paw on the woman over there, because the considered of your
choice.

The sea, gentlemen ... Does not deserve four shots or the straitjacket that spoke of such equality?

And
the laughter of the speaker, uníanse the laughter of all partners. Crushed socialism! What grace
and what that boy had gab! ...

Many old gentlemen shook their heads with a patronizing air, recognizing that Luis was needed
elsewhere, it was unfortunate that his words were lost in this atmosphere of smoke snuff, and the
first time would have to satisfy your taste, listen to the whole of Spain that criticism from the
stands just as sparkling.

Dupont, emboldened by the general assent, still talking, but now grimly. The people down, I needed
before wages, was the consolation of religion. Without religion we live raging, a victim of all kinds
of unhappiness, and this was the case of workers Jerez.

Do not believe in anything, not going to Mass, the priests mocked, thought only of the degollinas
social revolution and executions of bourgeois and Jesuits had no hope of eternal life, comfort
and compensation for the misery here below, which are insignificant
they last only a few dozen years, and as a logical outcome of such
impiety, were their poverty harder, with new dark tones.

One herd, sad and without God, deserved their punishment.

Not to complain of their masters, because they they struggled to get back on track! That accountability
to the real authors of their misfortune, Salvatierra and others like him, who had snatched the
faith!

- Besides, gentlemen - harangued the young gentleman with intonation tribune - what will be
achieved by increasing the wages? Promoting the service and nothing else. These people do not save:
the people have not saved before. Let's see: I submitted a laborer that I have saved your savings.

All
were silent, shaking his head in assent.

No one had the worker required by Dupont, and he smiled in triumph, hoping in vain to be wonderful
to achieve savings a fortunilla on his wages of a few real.

- Here - continued with solemnity - no taste for work and thrift.

You see the worker in other countries work harder than this earth and save a little capital for
old age. But here! ... bracero here as a young man thinks only in catching someone neglected girl
behind a haystack or Gañanía during sleep, and old, barely meeting few cents, used in wine
and gets drunk.

And all at once, as if suddenly lost his memory, with great severity
anathematized vice workers.

What could be expected from a mob without another illusion in life than to drink? ... Well said Dupont.
Drunk! People abject misery perpetuated of his condition, females raping like animals! ...

The Master knew the means of ending the anarchy. The government played much of the blame. In those
hours, having started the strike, had to take a battalion Jerez, army, if need be, and guns, many
guns. And he complained bitterly about the neglect of above, as if the army of Spain had one
mission for the rich store of Jerez for them to live peaceful, and would amount to a felony
not to fill the streets and fields of pants bayonets bright red,
just the tenants showed some dissatisfaction.

Luis was a liberal, very liberal. Dissented on this point teachers of the Company, who spoke
Don Carlos with enthusiasm, saying it was "the only flag." He was with his command, and not once
mention the real people who do not cast forth the title ahead His Majesty, as if they could hear
from far-fetched these samples respected and rewarded what he wanted. It was liberal, but their
freedom was of decent people. Freedom for those with something to lose, and for the common people,
all the bread possible, and stick, long stick, the only way to annihilate the evil that man
is born with and develops without the restraint of religion.

He knew the story, had read more than those who listened and deigned to share with you of his knowledge,
kindness protective.

- You know you - say - why France is richer and more advanced than us? ... Because the bandits
grasped the Commune, and was charged a few days more than forty thousand of those points. He used
the barrel and ametrallodora to finish quicker with the mob, and
everything was clean and quiet ... To me - the gentleman continued
Ph.D. air - I do not like France, because it is a Republic and that
there are decent people forget God and do mockery of his ministers.

But I want for this country a man as Thiers. This is what needed here, a man who smiles and machine
gunned the bastard.

And smiled to show he was able to be as Thiers as the other.

The conflict in Jerez as arranged in twenty-four hours. To give him the authority and would what
ero good.

The following performances of La Mano Negra, had had some effect. The mob quailed before the
gallows erected in the square of the prison.

But this was not enough. Desirable to remove a loose drain the beast rebel forces. To send
him already be in prison the hubs of all societies of the field workers brought revolt in the city.

But
it also seemed bland and insufficient, and immediately be rectified with propositions more fierce.
Ero better harass the rebels, abort the plans came prepared, "prick to jump out early, "and once
placed in an attitude of rebellion, to them and that there was not one! Much civil guard, many horses,
many artillery.

For that held the weight of the rich contributions, whose best part was taking the army. If not
so, what they were for the soldiers who so expensive side, in a country that had to sustain wars?
...

As a precaution, should suppress the evil shepherds who rose up the herd misery.

- To all those who walk on the field, in Gañanía Gañanía, spreading evil and vile papers poisonous
books, four shots.

Those who cast howl harangues and barbarity in those meetings to bells covered with at night in
a ranch or in the vicinity of a tavern, four shots. And the same to those in the vineyards, disobeying
their masters and the pride of knowing read, learn to their colleagues
in the nonsense that bring the papers ... A Fernando Salvatierra four
shots ...

But sir, just said it seemed to repent.

A flush instinctive troubled his eloquence.

Goodness and virtue of that rebel infundíanle some respect.

Same as approved their plans, they remained silent, as if they were
repugnant to include the revolutionary in throw lavish distribution.

It was a crazy admiration imposed, a saint who did not believe in God, and those landlords felt
for him a respect equal to the Moor to the holy man mad curses him and threatens him with his stick.

-
No - continued the gentleman, - in a straitjacket Salvatierra, and
to be spread their doctrines in a madhouse what you have left.

The public approved of these solutions Dupont. The owners of the herds of horses, old Pin grizzled
who spent hours looking at the bottle with a priestly silence, its
gravity broke the young man smiled.

- Er Tié talented boy - said
one .-- Talk like a diputao.

And the others approve.

- You will Pablito, his cousin, that take it out when yeguen elections.

Luis felt fatigued at times of triumphs to harvest in the casinos, the amazement inspired by his
sudden seriousness to former colleagues of gay life.

Hobbies reborn fun with the little people.

- I'm sick of snobs - the man said nonchalantly over his loyal acolyte the Goat .-- Come and field,
a little fanfare body thanks you.

And with the desire to remain under the protection of his powerful
cousin, you've passed the day in Marchamalo, feigning interest in
the outcome of the harvest.

The vineyard was full of women, and Luis liked dealing with those girls mountain to thank the gentleman
laughed, and appreciated their generosity.

Maria de la Luz and her
father as an honor hosting the regularity with which Louis visited
the vineyard. The noisy Matanzuela adventure, was hardly a distant
memory. Things sir! These people, traditionally accustomed to respect
the noisy pleasures of the rich, disculpábanlos as if it were a duty
of youth. 

Mr. Fermin was aware of the great change that was made
in Don Luis, his boasts serious man, and saw with pleasure that came
to the Vineyard to escape the temptations of the city.

Her daughter
also warmly welcomed the gentleman, calling him sir as in the days
of his childhood, and laughing all through. Was the master of Raphael,
and someday she would be his servant in that farm, he saw all the
time with imagination, like the nest of their happiness. Of revelry
scandal that had so incensed against the overseer, barely remembered.
Young master showed himself repented of his past, and people, to take
a few months, I had forgotten the entire farm scandal.

Luis showed
great love for life Marchamalo. Sometimes at night he was surprised
and stayed to sleep in the tower of Dupont.

- I'm there as a patriarch
- he told his friends Jerez .-- Surrounded by girls who love me as
if his dad. We could see it would make
bad blood some day; but there was such a lot of gold being got just then that people didn't
bother their heads about anything more than they could help--plenty of gold, plenty of money,
people bringing up more things every day from the towns for the use of the diggers. You could
get pretty near anything you wanted by paying for it. Hard work from daylight to dark, with
every now and then a big find to sweeten it, when a man could see as much money lying at his
foot, or in his hand, as a year's work--no, nor five--hadn't made for him before. No wonder
people were not in a hurry to call out for change in a place like the Turon in the year 1850!

The first night put the stuns on us. Long rows of tents, with big roaring log fires in front
hot enough to roast you if you went too near; mobs of men talking, singing, chaffing, dealing--all
as jolly as a lot of schoolboys. There was grog, too, going, as there is everywhere. No publics
were allowed at first, so, of course, it was sold on the sly.

It's no use trying to make men do without grog, or the means of getting it; it never works.
I don't hold with every shanty being licensed and its being under a man's nose all day long;
but if he has the money to pay for it, and wants to have an extra glass of grog or two with
his friends, or because he has other reasons, he ought to be able to get it without hardships
being put in his way.

The Government was afraid of there being tremendous fights and riots at the diggings, because
there was all sorts of people there, English and French, Spaniards and Italians, natives and
Americans, Greeks and Germans, Swedes and negroes, every sort and kind of man from every country
in the world seemed to come after a bit. But they needn't have been frightened at the diggers.
As far as we saw they were the sensiblest lot of working men we ever laid eyes on; not at all
inclined to make a row for nothing--quite the other way. But the shutting off of public-houses
led to sly grog tents, where they made the digger pay a pound a bottle for his grog, and didn't
keep it very good either.

When the police found a sly grog tent they made short work of it, I will say. Jim and I were
close by, and saw them at the fun. Somebody had informed on the man, or they had some other
reason; so they rode down, about a dozen troopers, with the Commissioner at their head. He
went in and found two casks of brandy and one of rum, besides a lot of bottled stuff. They
didn't want that for their own use, he believed.

First he had the heads knocked in of the hogsheads; then all the bottled wine and spirits were
unpacked and stowed in a cart, while the straw was put back in the tent. Then the men and women
were ordered to come outside, and a trooper set fire to the straw. In five minutes the tent
and everything in it was a mass of flame.

There was a big crowd gathered round outside. They began to groan when the trooper lit the
straw, but they did nothing, and went quietly home after a bit. We had the horses to see after
next day. Just before the sale began, at twelve o'clock, and a goodish crowd had turned up,
Starlight rides quietly up, the finest picture of a new chum you ever set eyes on. Jim and
I could hardly keep from bursting out laughing.

He had brought up a quiet cobby sort of stock horse from the Hollow, plain enough, but a wonder
to go, particularly over broken country. Of course, it didn't do to bring Rainbow out for such
work as this. For a wonder, he had a short tail. Well, he'd squared this cob's tail and hogged
his mane so that he looked like another animal. He was pretty fat, too.

He was dressed up to the nines himself, and if we didn't expect him we wouldn't have known
him from a crow. First of all, he had a thick rough suit of tweed clothing on, all the same
colour, with a round felt hat. He had a bran new saddle and bridle, that hadn't got the yellow
rubbed off them yet. He had an English hunting whip in his hand, and brown dogskin gloves.
He had tan leather gaiters that buttoned up to his knees. He'd shaved his beard all but his
moustache and a pair of short whiskers.

He had an eyeglass in his eye, which he let drop every now and then, putting it up when he
wanted to look at anybody.

When he rode up to the yard everybody stared at him, and one or two of the diggers laughed
and began to call out 'Joe.' Jim and I thought how sold some of them would have been if he
turned on them and they'd found out who it was. However, he pushed up to the auctioneer, without
looking out right or left, and drawled--

'May I--er--ask if you are Mr.--er--Joseph Stevenson?'

'I'm Joe Stevenson,' says the auctioneer. 'What can I do for you?'

'Oh!--a--here is a letter from my friend, Mr. Bernard Muldoon, of the Lower Macquarie--er--requesting
you to sell these horses faw him; and--er--hand over the pwoceeds to--er--me--Mr. Augustus
Gwanby--aw!'

Stevenson read the letter, nodded his head, said, 'All right; I'll attend to it,' and went
on with the sale.

It didn't take long to sell our colts. There were some draught stock to come afterwards, and
Joe had a day's work before him. But ours sold well. There had not been anything like this
for size, quality, and condition. The Commissioner sent down and bought one. The Inspector
of Police was there, and bought one recommended by Starlight. They fetched high prices, from
fifty to eighty-five guineas, and they came to a fairish figure the lot.

When the last horse was sold, Starlight says, 'I feel personally obliged to you, Mr.--aw--Stevenson--faw
the highly satisfactory manner in which you have conducted the sale, and I shall inform my
friend, Mr. Muldoon, of the way you have sold his stock.'

'Much obliged, sir,' says Joe, touching his hat. 'Come inside and I'll give you the cheque.'

'Quite unnecessary now,' says Starlight; 'but as I'm acting for a friend, it may be as well.'

We saw him pocket the cheque, and ride slowly over to the bank, which was half-tent, half-bark hut.

We didn't think it safe to stay on the Turon an hour longer than we were forced to do. We had
seen the diggings, and got a good notion of what the whole thing was like; sold the horses
and got the money, that was the principal thing. Nothing for it now but to get back to the
Hollow. Something would be sure to be said about the horses being sold, and when it came out
that they were not Muldoon's there would be a great flare-up. Still they could not prove that
the horses were stolen. There wasn't a wrong brand or a faked one in the lot. And no one could
swear to a single head of them, though the whole lot were come by on the cross, and father
could have told who owned every one among them. That was curious, wasn't it?

We put in a night at Jonathan Barnes's on our way back. Maddie got the earrings, and Bella
the making of a new riding habit, which she had been wanting and talking about for a good while.
Starlight dressed up, and did the new chum young Englishman, eyeglass and all, over again,
and repeated the conversation he had with the Inspector of Police about his friend Mr. Muldoon's
illness, and the colts he recommended. It was grand, and the girls laughed till they cried
again. Well, those were merry days; we DID have a bit of fun sometimes, and if the devil was
dogging us he kept a good way out of sight. It's his way at the start when fellows take the
downward track.

    .   .   .   .   .

We got back safe enough, and father opened his eyes when he saw the roll of notes Starlight
counted over as the price of the colts. 'Horse-breeding's our best game,' says the old man,
'if they're going to pay such prices as this. I've half a mind to start and take a lot over
to Port Phillip.'

Chapter 25

Our next chance came through father. He was the intelligence man, and had all the news sent
to him--roundabout it might be, but it always came, and was generally true; and the old man
never troubled anybody twice that he couldn't believe in, great things or small. When I was
practicing this iniquitous diligence, was an Indian who came from the province of Tinta and turning
to D. Jacinto, he said, was sent by the Inca Tupac Amaru, and that this charge mirasen with great
respect and reverence to temples and priest not to harm any to the natives, and that only by
pursuing and finish at the escutcheons. And having asked for the letters, responded that the
day before his companion had come with a specification for D. Jacinto, that were repeated acclamations
of the infamous name of the tyrant, to be heard repeat in public squares and streets for all
sorts of people, with great joy, running all with flags and other demonstrations of joy, who imitated
D. Manuel de Herrera from balcony of his house, waving a white handkerchief, and accompanying
this action with the same words than the others, they were saying, "live Tupac-Amaru," which was returning
to pronounce the town, full joy. The mob of natives, who heard this news as favorable to his ideas,
expressed the joy that caused, and some tried to find out, because it ensured the Indian very soon
would be in the city of La Paz.

D. Jacinto Rodriguez, agreed with the wife of the captain of those militias, D. Clemente Menacho,
the Spanish attempted to use all the costume of the Indians. Emerged from this line the streets, dressed
in black velvet with rich gold overlays, threatening to all would be victims of the rebels,
but he imitated, because they were European persuade, to who agreed to get rid of death, and
at one point wanted to achieve the transformation, men taking the shirt or unco soon the Indians,
and the ladies leaving their neat short skirts, wore the coarse and long acsos of the Indian.
When they were employed in these and other provisions, the news came that the Indians were approaching
Challapata. Went to meet the field as to the others, but came only 40 of the most major and at the head
of them D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, and then they entered the square, was sent bells ring, then
going to stay in the house that was driving, where were either given away and cared for. Going
through the E-Street, took weapons King, which were fixed on the door of the administration,
pisándolas and outraged, with whose daring demonstrations had they meant the reign of our deceased
August Sovereign, D. Carlos III. These Indians had come with the specious pretext of assisting
the village, who said that to defend it had 40,000 men ready, but met it was all invention of
malice existed since time is occupied in order to assignments and waivers landowners of their estates
to their community, what's egecutaron owners of them with deeds, to prevent death, wanting to lose
their first goods to their lives. And as far the Indians were made owners of that population,
elated by the money they had paid, and the rewards of Rodriguez and partial, and contemplating
higher refused obedience, and would not egecutar the order that had given them to withdraw,
before more insolence returned by the night to plunder, rushed home and D. Store Francisco Polo,
which will not be served a Creole for freedom, and as Dawn in this operation, were seen by the
owner, who came to pray to D. Jacinto remedied that excess: what heard by the Indian Governor
of Challata, D. Lope Chungara, pitying such havoc, neighbors came together resolved, and cast
them to the Indians together, and the order given, that whoever does not kill him, habiéndola
egecutado in two or three of the most daring attempt was reached, leaving the others without
resistance.

This was the cruel and bloody event in the town of Oruro, where not only experienced tyranny on
the part of Indians and cholos rebels, but also of some priests and bishops religions. European
one, and perhaps the most benefited from his countrymen, fellow daily
on their desks, locked the doors so that none could benefit from its
closure, saying goodbye inhumanly and with greater violence, Don Francisco
Duran and D. José Arijon, respectable old who tried.

But much more was tyrant, seeing inside the convent to D. José Isasa, who flee from persecution, had
jumped the walls of the corral, the that also output in the middle of the day, setting out with outrage
to which they were received between the clubs, spears and slings his enemies. No less worthy of
his ministry was another, although he allowed his religious persecution any protection, appropriated
an grown much gold jewelry, pearls and diamonds, which put trust in his cell religious, was
sacked by his fear of the rebels, in consequence of having found it to a European, so that
according to prudent regulation, usurped over 70,000 pesos strong. The priest of the village,
continuing wrong doctrine, received from D. Jacinto Rodriguez a bar of silver, whose value amounted
to about 2,000 pesos, and a gold mancerina he sent the stolen, that held the vote to the Europeans
killed in the tumult, content to bury them all together in a hole, and apply some mass. None
of these or other ecclesiastical superiors made the slightest demonstration to prevent the Indians
broke into the churches, all consented to it, possessed of fear, and so tired sore, was to see
that after the churches polluted, it can host the holy and tremendous sacrifice of the Mass,
the priest buried in the place that was violated, The bodies of the residents who died of disease.

Satisfied
and the accomplices of tyranny, with so many tragic events, tried to gloss over their evil
with some specific pretext, if were subject to the obedience of the King. Mine was supposed
effective, built by the mayor from his home to the barracks: they formed car, which witnesses
were the same as murderers and some boys, whom his own authority ages dispensing Chief Justice,
D. Jacinto Rodriguez, making them sign statements, they had made in advance by the lawyers
address and Megia Caro. Wanted to test the fact the mine own eyes, had been constructed secretly
persuaded, as had commanded, but it came out wrong thinking, Porge responsible for this evil left
work with the consideration of the offense, and having passed the
exam the royal scribe, D. José de Montesinos, found only a hole, which
was not addressed to any party, but but followed the process full
of evils and defects, and had the audacity to refer to the Audiencia
of Charcas to delude his ministers.

It also invented daily infamous continuous news, in order that the faithful few neighbors do not raise
the cry; sometimes claimed that had ravaged the city of La Plata, other than in Potosí Creoles,
united and confederated with the Indians of the mita, had slain all the Europeans, and in the
City of Peace had wanted egecutar the same betrayal that in that town, and that had killed 200 Europeans
and 300 natives, with further developments of this nature, ran the evil of terror and submission
to the loyalists.

Rodriguez all enjoyed the distinction of usurped control with greater satisfaction, trusting in the blind
subordination to them had the Indians, but faded all hope the morning of March 9, which was
suddenly attacked his house, the trusted them both, and nothing less trying to take away the
heads and destroy all the villa. Played immediately to question: joined the militia, and were
rejected the Indians lost 60. This made them change behavior, since leaving excessive contemplation
with which they were treated, especially D. Jacinto, who was persuaded would come to his aid
after the fire, as they had previously egecutado: but disillusioned, he had cast some rocky areas,
fix the militia, and gathering ammunition defense.

Retired the Indians in this lesson to their villages, farms, began to call from them to those
of the other provinces immediate luring them with money stolen in
the looting Oruro.

They occupied the roads to prevent the entry of food, taking the lives of the drivers, and taking
advantage of all that led: so that those neighbors were reduced to suffer the greatest needs.
Every night he played question, by repeated warnings from entering the Indians to destroy the
village, who took advantage of the occasion cholos to continue stealing whatever they could,
until March 18, which was verified; dawn on the tops of the hills of San Felipe and nipples
6.000 to 7.000. Went out to fight, they killed a few, and there were some injuries on the part of
Oruro who lost, lost hope to overcome the heights were occupied, increasing consternation and
was strengthened the party of Indians with more items arriving by the minute, and placed in
Cerro de San Pedro. Showed again the battle, which admitted the neighbors but only began the
attack, returned to take the pads, but 14 who were killed with one
of his captains, whose head was hoisted at the tip of a spear.

In this show gained new effort, and forgotten the resentment against the Europeans, for their
own convenience, thought to look for those who had escaped and were hiding, to help the defense,
whose commission is tasked D. Clemente Menacho, with all his company, who said to a religious
Mercy, could draw freely to some who knew he was in his cell because he had pardoned general
for them. In fact left the convent D. Antonio Goiburu, and D. Manuel Puche, they were received
with arms and shows good faith, and subsequently identified to do the same which were, joining
up to 18 who had the happiness to save themselves from the furor of the last conspiracy. Together
with the natives, and knowing that the Indians who had occupied the hills immediately to Oruro,
remained in the Chosequirí, distant two leagues, decided to follow them and attack, in which action,
which lasted all day 19, got killing 120 and defeat them entirely: from that day feeling the beneficial
effects of this triumph, because the Indians began to implore pardon, and offered to hand over
the heads that had moved, as egecutaron later, leading to the leaders of the peoples of Sorasora,
Challacocho and poop. D. Jacinto Rodriguez and other chiefs of the military, agreed an agreement
with them, on condition that they attend the village with the necessary supplies to keep your
neighborhood.

No less pain because of the havoc that the revolt was in the town of San Pedro de Buena Vista, Chayanta
province, which, although had the fortune of castigating the audacity Indians as haughty and haughtiness,
assaulted him in the months of November and December 1780. Eager to resist its fury as small
population, poor ammunition assisted war and mouth, again with greater strength for the month
of February, 1781 to intensify attacks and assaults. The priest, Dr. D. Isidoro José de Herrera,
who is competing looked up with a great view, a profound wisdom, and a long-standing loyalty, urging
his parishioners to the highest on record, and to not to tarnish his ugly soot from the disloyalty.
This issue could avoid the risk pastor flight: but he scruple abandon conscience that afflicted flock,
sometimes so tight that needed his help, Thin with a hope that his respect and authority could
quench the ravenous flame remained in the village.

With this heroic resolution banner hoisted by a Saint-Christ, and so sacred effigy Spanish exhorted
and rebuked the rebels: but these, despising those divine aid that will cross the All-Mighty hand
of his minister, repeated beatings with a shower of stones, and although
ours for seven continuous days worked wonders courage and perseverance,
not only rejecting the furious efforts that were undertaken by that
bastard, but injuring and killing many, and the forces yielding to
the stubborn insistence and unequal numbers of the enemy, and being
exhausted by hunger and thirst, with total lack of gunpowder and bullets,
and without the aid he had repeatedly asked the Commander Military
Court of La Plata, 30 miles away alone, determined as a last resort
leave the church, believing that the respect due to God's house was
the most impregnable strength, which saved their lives.

But outrage or outrageous! it was not so, because with shame the same rationale, and contempt
of the adorable Sacrament of the sacred images and all the heavenly court, the temple became
a den of outlaws, which sacrilegious hands took the life of the priest and to five priests,
the sword from more than 1,000 people, among men, women and creatures, leaving the sanctuary become
a sea of ​​innocent blood, and sprinkled with her altars.

Esperimentóse the same tragedy in the town of Caracoto, Sicasica province, where blood of the
Spanish, shed on the church came to cover the ankles of the sacrilegious assailants: Tapacari
in the Cochabamba province had the same fate which the living: reaching the cruelty of the
rebels to both excess, they wanted to bury alive the wives Spanish, for what they had already opened
a hole in the plaza, could bury them all. Exercised in this town to the extreme cruelty. Out
of the church to a Spanish, who had benefited from the altar with
six sons and dragged him to his house, gave him the knife in hand,
pointing out with cruel stripes, to which was the executioner of his
own blood, in the presence of the woman who was ahead of her pregnancy.

Resistíose the unhappy this barbaric egecucion, and by the loving prayers of the mother, as the
tender sobs children, but were sufficient to show compassionate soften the hardened hearts of
those tyrants who beheaded the father resolved, and the children in sight of the mother for more
inquiries and tears that used to deliver them, and having an abortion with the pain and fright,
went mad to examine the fetus, and finding that it was male, took his life, before expiring
naturally.

In Palca, in the same province of Cochabamba, the same tyranny and committed sacrilege killing many
people of all sexes and ages, and the priest D. Gabriel Arnau, who finished shock and shoved
to the foot of the sacred interests, taking into the hands of the Blessed Sacrament Altar, which
was the most sacrilegious ESPONSE TO desecration: India and the host taking a consecrated, ran
with her hands, saying, "Look deception, we suffer from these Rogues, this cake was made by
the sacristan with flour that I drove the valley, and then we pretend that it is God Sacrament.
"So also in the village fell victim Arque of sedition all Spanish neighbors, set out in it and
its broken. It attacked the people of quilt, and egercitaron same cruelties, binding to a cure, Dr.
D. Martin Martinez de Tineo, who maneater led him in the tumult,
where he was wounded by a clubbed in the head, because he would not
assent to his proposals, that would give them no stripes, to learn
the doctrine.

This church was maintained with the utmost integrity, to view the danger that threatened him: asking
if the whip, he replied, yes, when should give reason for not wanting to instruct in the Christian
obligations. Reproducianle Indians would give them only 20 or 25 lashes, to which he replied that
if they made this necessary, punish them with 50, as he had used until then, remained inflexible
to these and other proposals they were doing, opposed to his ministry. But as his zeal and arranged
couducta, with the many alms to, infinite and perquisites that continually interests he forgave,
he had become very dear to all, saved my life, and now free from their oppressors, passed without
delay to the capital of the province, where he became bathed in his own blood, and performing in
the main square, without doing any proceeding, be brought into the wound a measure of Our
Lady of Copacabana, surrounded by a large contest, he exhorted those present, saying: Where is
the loyalty and religion of Cochabamba, which does not prevent much damage and sacrilege? And teaching
the wound, said: "Look how he treats priests and ministers The Sanctuary do not believe in the
vain bids Tupac Amaru a traitor, all will be victim his tyrannical ambition, because its intent
is to release all the Spanish blood; good witnesses are the cruelties egecutadas in Arque, Tapacari,
Palca and other peoples.

"And repeating same reasons, gave a lot of laps around the square and streets of the town, which shook
the minds of those cholos, who were wavering in faith, and announced with leaflets and songs,
I was about to embrace the rebel party, which was founded reasons to fear a tragedy as bloody as
similar to that of Oruro, which would result inevitable loss of the whole kingdom, because
the province has more than 20,000 men of all castes, which pass through Spanish, able to handle
weapons and as brave as determined.

This zealous pastor was the principal motive for Cochabamba are rooted in faith, linking God for
this medium in the province's remedy as detestable revolt: not well understood because the lofty
thoughts of the rebels, moving to the edges of knife to all Indians who were not legitimate,
when armed with spears alone sticks out boldly, and made them know their effort. These brave provincial
became the terror of the rebels, because they had repeated meetings, left campaigns watered with
the blood of the enemy, to be motivated by his bravery the content if any to avoid repeating
the unspeakable atrocities that were experienced at the beginning of the commotion. These strong
men have made known that armed and disciplined applicable, did not have to envy the most hardened
veteran troops. It is true that I have noticed too little inclination to obedience and pillage,
but these flaws its rise the lack of discipline and evil egemplo that gave them their commanders
and officers.

Known by the mayor, D. Felix Jose Villalobos, the good disposition of the Cochabamba and secured
their loyalty, ordered 600 men, who under the command of D. Joseph Ayars, saliesen to know the
devastation that was experienced in his province. He headed this command with Arque streams in search of
the enemy, who waited in the vicinity of Bedspread people, confident in their greater number,
and occupying the advantageous situations. Presentóles battle, who admitted bold, making them
a long and stubborn resistance, until defeated and placed in an embarrassing disorderly flight,
left bodies strewn and waste, at the disposal of the victor, the prominent hills that had by
impregnable. Uploaded victory after the tragic event of Oruro, directed his march to that
villa, where he entered, neglecting the Rodriguez expressed disgust and partial by setting in
place the arms of the Sovereign, who had been a few days before trodden, and waving the flags
in the streets real and most major places: and then having spent three days at the destination,
leaving some food for relief neighborhood and retired to Cochabamba, but in Oruro had the audacity
to remove the second time weapons SM, after his departure verified. To avoid the cruelties of
other went Tapacari body of men of equal strength, that after having fought the rebels, escaped
timely Spanish to the women, who had already collected and confined
them to the cruel attempt to bury alive.

On the part of Tarata took them founded suspicion, that were never verified by the activity of its heal
D. Mariano Moscoso, whose zeal and known were able to implement effective remedies loyalty, sacrificing
much of their interest for afford many soldiers of those militias, which serve to contain the
audacity of malcontents. These were not ravaged by the King, from Tucuman to Cuzco, but the
cities of La Plata and Peace, which the towns of Potosi, Cochabamba and Puno, for Chucuito in
the province had been similar thefts and deaths of Spanish and priests having regard also to the
Mizque some troubles that gave no little care.

The continuous and repeated warnings that successively received from these major events the
Excellent. Mr D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, Viceroy of Buenos Aires, he determined to rid of some
troops, but of the few forces that was to attend to the needs and fears that all those costs caused
in the war with the British

.
 Every man to his taste, they say.

Well, between this new fad of the old man's and our having a notion that we had better keep
quiet for a spell and let things settle down a bit, we had a long steady talk, and the end
of it was that we made up our minds to go and put in a month or two at the diggings.

We took a horse apiece that weren't much account, so we could either sell them or lose them,
it did not make much odds which, and made a start for Jonathan Barnes's place. We got word
from him every now and then, and knew that the police had never found out that we had been
there, going or coming. Jonathan was a blowing, blatherskiting fool; but his very foolishness
in that way made them think he knew nothing at all. He had just sense enough not to talk about
us, and they never thought about asking him. So we thought we'd have a bit of fun there before
we settled down for work at the Turon. We took old saddles and bridles, and had a middling-sized
swag in front, just as if we'd come a long way. We dressed pretty rough too; we had longish
hair and beards, and (except Starlight) might have been easy taken for down-the-river stockmen
or drovers.

When we got to Barnes's place he and the old woman seemed ever so glad to see us. Bella and
Maddie rushed out, making a great row, and chattering both at a time.

'Why, we thought you were lost, or shot, or something,' Bella says. 'You might have sent us
a letter, or a message, only I suppose you didn't think it worth while.'

'What a bad state the country's getting in,' says Maddie. 'Think of them bush-rangers sticking
up the bank at Ballabri, and locking up the constable in his own cell. Ha! ha! The police magistrate
was here to-night. You should have heard Bella talking so nice and proper to him about it.'

'Yes, and you said they'd all be caught and hanged,' said Bella; 'that it was settin' such
a bad example to the young men of the colony. My word! it was as good as a play. Mad was so
full of her fun, and when the P.M. said they'd be sure to be caught in the long run, Maddie
said they'd have to import some thoroughbred police to catch 'em, for our Sydney-side ones
didn't seem to have pace enough. This made the old gentleman stare, and he looked at Maddie
as if she was out of her mind. Didn't he, Mad?'

'I do think it's disgraceful of Goring and his lot not to have run them in before,' says Starlight,
'but it wouldn't do for us to interfere.'

'Ah! but Sir Ferdinand Morringer's come up now,' says Maddie. 'He'll begin to knock saucepans
out of all the boys between here and Weddin Mountain. He was here, too, and asked us a lot
of questions about people who were "wanted" in these parts.'

'He fell in love with Maddie, too,' says Bella, 'and gave her one of the charms of his watch
chain--such a pretty one, too. He's going to catch Starlight's mob, as he calls them. Maddie
says she'll send him word if ever she knows of their being about.'

'Well done, Maddie!' says Jim; 'so you may, just an hour or two after we're started. There
won't be much likelihood of his overhauling us then. He won't be the first man that's been
fooled by a woman, will he?'

'Or the last, Jim,' says Bella. 'What do you say, Captain? It seems to me we're doing all the
talking, and you're doing all the listening. That isn't fair, you know. We like to hear ourselves
talk, but fair play is bonny play. Suppose you tell us what you've been about all this time.
I think tea's ready.'

We had our innings in the talking line; Jim and Maddie made noise enough for half-a-dozen.
Starlight let himself be talked to, and didn't say much himself; but I could see even he, that
had seen a lot of high life in his time, was pleased enough with the nonsense of a couple of
good-looking girls like these--regular bush-bred fillies as they were--after being shut up
in the Hollow for a month or two.

Before we'd done a couple of travellers rode up. Jonathan's place was getting a deal more custom
now--it lay near about the straight line for the Turon, and came to be known as a pretty comfortable
shop. Jonathan came in with them, and gave us a wink as much as to say, 'It's all right.'

'These gentlemen's just come up from Sydney,' he said, 'not long from England, and wants to
see the diggings. I told 'em you might be going that way, and could show 'em the road.'

'Very happy,' says Starlight. 'I am from Port Phillip last myself, and think of going back
by Honolulu after I've made the round of the colonies. My good friends and travelling companions
are on their way for the Darling. We can all travel together.'

'What a fortunate thing we came here, Clifford, eh?' says one young fellow, putting up his
eyeglass. 'You wanted to push on. Now we shall have company, and not lose our way in this beastly
"bush", as they call it.'

'Well, it does look like luck,' says the other man. 'I was beginning to think the confounded
place was getting farther off every day. Can you show us our rooms, if you please? I suppose
we couldn't have a bath?'

'Oh yes, you can,' said Maddie; 'there's the creek at the bottom of the garden, only there's
snakes now and then at night. I'll get you towels.'

'In that case I think I shall prefer to wait till the morning,' says the tall man. 'It will
be something to look forward to.'

We were afraid the strangers would have spoiled our fun for the evening, but they didn't; we
made out afterwards that the tall one was a lord. 

He spoke enthusiastically about the operation of branding, that Don Fernando had never seen.
The yegüerizos sow casting their ties to the wild horses, holding them by the ears, while
the iron was heated in a fire of dried cow dung, and to be the red mark, wham, applied it to the
side, burning the hair and skin being marked forever the cross and the crescent. And with some
sympathy for Salvatierra, knowing thus ignored some things that were for the most interesting overseer
of the world, he continued explaining the regime to which young horses are subjected, all the operations
carried out by voluntary in their enthusiasm for the rider.

First the moor, coming from the freedom of the pasture, to become accustomed to eat at the manger,
then went to the field, compared to the farmhouse, with big head and a long rope, to go round like
a ring, and learn to dams, to put the leg back where they put the front, or beyond, if possible.
After that came the operation supreme place the chair on the backs, their wild nervousness accustomed
to this bonded; accustom them to the crupper, and stirrups. And finally they were mounted to give them
turns, hold the top rope, then managing them with the reins. Foals he had unbroken, almost
wild animals, they inspired fear many! ...

He spoke with pride of their energy fighting with wild beasts and willingness to neigh and bit
the air, kicking, rising vertically or dunking your head on the ground while coceaban in space, but
so could be freed from the oppression of their legs steel, until finally, after a mad race,
which seemed to find the obstacles to crush the rider, became sweaty and defeated, submitting entirely
to the hand the editor.

Rafael was arrested in the narrative of his exploits horse, seeing the shadow of a person Chart
door on the bottom of violet light of dusk.

- Ah! Is that you? - He laughed .-- Pass, Capers, have no fear.

In came a young man of small stature, moving cautiously sideways, as if afraid touching the wall. In
its early shrinkage seemed to implore forgiveness for all that do. Her eyes glowed in the dark
as well as strong and sharp teeth. Approaching in light of the candlestick, Salvatierra was
set at the copper color of his face, in the corneas of eyes, which seemed stained with snuff,
in the hands of two colors, pink palm and the back of a black man who became even more intense under
the fingernails. Despite the cold, wearing summer blouse, a pleated guayabera, still wet from
the rain, and the head was two hats, one inside the other, of different colors, as their hands.
The below showing a brand new gray and white on the underside of
its wings, the top was old, a reddish black, with frayed edges.

Rafael grabbed the lad by the shoulder, making it balanced, and presented it to Salvatierra with
a comic gravity.

- This is Capers, which Nah, you probably have heard.

The more gypsy thief too Jerez. If there were any justice, would
have long ago dao club in the plaza of the Jail.

Capers jumped to escape the claws of the overseer, and shaking hands feminine gestures, eventually
chased.

- Oops!, Zeno Rafa and how bad it is uzté ... Jozu! And what he says this man!

The overseer continued frowning and deep voice:

- Work at Matanzuela
with his family for many years, but is a thief like gypsies toos and
should be in prison.

"Nah, you know why it comes with two hats? Pa filling chickpea or beans so I neglect: and he does
not know the best day I stick a shotgun.

- Jozu! Senor Rafa! But what does Nah, you, blessed? ...

And clasped her hands in despair, looking eagerly Salvatierra and
telling children:

- Nah, you do not believe him, Zeno, is very bad
and I say that by rotting blood.

For the salusita my mare that too is a lie ...

And he explained the mystery of the two overlapping hats had soaked to the ears around his face
in a halo of rogue two colors.

The one below was the new, the Holidays and unsheathed when I went
to Jerez.

In the days of work did not dare leave at the farm for fear of the companions, who allowed
all sorts of jokes with him because was "a poor gypsy", and covered it with the old so it does
not lose his gray and silky it was his pride.

Exacerbating the overseer continued to gypsy peasant humor that delights in anger the poor in spirit
and the homeless.

- Hey, capers, you know who is this guy? It is the gift Fernando Salvatierra.

Did not never heard of him? ...

Gypsy nodded in amazement, opening her eyes wide.

- For some nombrao which is the breast! In the last two hours Gañanía
Jablan no more than him.

For many years, sah! M 'cones glad one preson so fine and so one. Well mers is that their is someone:
has the face of gobernaor.

Salvatierra smiled at the gypsy's fawning obsequiousness. Unhappy that he did not know categories;
judged by the reputation, and considering him a powerful figure,
an authority, trembling, hiding his embarrassment with fawning smile
of races ever prosecuted.

- Don Fernando - continued the overseer
.-- Nah, you have friends abroad could fix the trip to Capers.

To see if that land was so lucky as their bonuses.

And speaking of Capers, gypsy dancers who gave a hit in Paris and in many Russian cities, whose
names could not remember the overseer. His portraits included to on boxes of matches, the newspapers
talked about them, they had diamonds in abundance, dancing theaters and palaces and one of them
had won a Grand Duke, or panjandrum Rafael remembered what another title, taking her to a castle
where he lived like a queen.

- And that too, Don Fernando, a wise monkeys, so ugly and black as his cousin here today; a
gawky, which I have seen small chickpeas robbing farmhouses and other
seeds vivacious rats, no more than one gypsy and a shameless that
put coloraos men.

Is that what they like those big shots? Come on, man, is to laugh! ...

And laughing, actually, to think that living as a great ladies those wenches coppery, ember-eyed,
he had seen loitering dirty and crusty in the fields of Jerez.

Capers spoke with some pride of their premiums, but regretting the different sort of way family.
They made a queen and he with his poor mare, his younger brothers, and Mari-Cruz, your poor little
cousin, always sick, winning two reals in the farmhouse! Thank you very much and that gave them
work every year knowing that they were good! ... Their premiums were about culling not written to the
family and is not sent or this. (And did crack the nail of a thumb between the teeth of a
horse.)

- Breast: paece lie that my uncle to behave so badly with his family,
being a cañí.

With so much wanted him tried to stop me! ...

But far from being indignant, he broke into praise of Uncle capers,
a man of initiatives, tired of going hungry in Jerez and be in danger
of going to jail if strayed a donkey or a mule, had thrown the guitar
over his shoulder, not stopping with all their "wins" as he called
the daughters, even the Paris.

And laughed ironically capers simplicity of porridge, of all people
who dominate the world and oppresses the poor Gypsies, recalling some
leaflets and newspapers that had seen the portrait of his respected
uncle, looking their pins jacha mouth, and face a thief, under a hat
like a steeple Catita and surrounded by columns printed in a tongue
spoken in the mademoiselle Capers and celebrated her grace and beauty,
repeating every six rows Ollé!

Ollé! ... And his uncle, for greater solemnity, was called Captain
Capers! "Captain of what?

... Y their cousins, mademoiselle, you were robbed by big shots who were afraid of the father
terrible you gentleman, who had so often philosophically strumming the guitar in the stores,
while the girls were hiding with the gentlemen in the rooms beyond. Joshua, who banter! ...

But
the gypsy went quickly from laughter to melancholy, sprightly incoherence bird of his soul.
Oh, if I lived their partner, who had been an eagle, compared with this brother who was so fortunate!
...

- Your father died? - Salvatierra said.

- Yes, sah, a fart in the cemetery, and being good, you Yamo er crow's there.

And Capers continued his lamentations. If I had not killed the poor thing! Instead of premiums
he and his brothers would enjoy so much wealth.

And he claimed in good faith neglecting as insignificant the difference
of sex, not giving any value to the ugliness spicy cousins, believing
that his fortune was due to skill in singing, for which the pobresita
of his mare, his cousin Mari-Cruz and he was worth far more than all
the Capers who roamed the world.

The overseer, looking sad gypsy ofrecíale protection.

His fortune was made. There was Don Fernando, with its influences of character, we had booked
a job.

Capers opened his eyes, fearing ridicule.

But fearing a foul if he did not thanks to that man, overwhelmed
with sugary words Salvatierra, as he looked the overseer, not knowing
where I was going to stop.

- If, porridge - Rafael .-- Already have
continued employment.

The breast will make Seviya executioner or Jerez: what you choose.

The gypsy jumped, showing his comic outrage with an overflow of words.

-
Cursed!

Arrastrao! Mala spank shotgun, Rafael Sr., in his gut renegrísimas! ...

He paused in his cursing, seeing that they served to delight the overseer, and added with malicious
intent:

- Gave premit mers that when you go to his vineyard of Don Paul, you cunt-faced RESIBIR Lent.

Rafael
and not laugh. He feared that the gypsy, in the presence of Don Fernando, spoke of her love
godfather's daughter, and was quick to dismiss.

- Take a cigarette and get out ... hoodoo. Your mother will be waiting.

Capers was due to the docility of a dog. Saying goodbye to Salvatierra extended his mulatto
hand, repeating that he waited in the Gañanía and people walked to revolt presonages know that
a so high was in Matanzuela.

When he left, the overseer spoke to Don Fernando de los Capers and other Roma from the farmhouse. Were
families who worked years and years in the same house, as if they
were part of it.

Were easier to handle, men and women, that other people of the Gañanía. With them there was no fear rebellion,
strikes, or threats. They were both beggars and thieves, but shrink from threatening gestures
with the docility of a persecuted race.

Rafael had only seen the gypsies working the land in this part of
Andalusia.

The people love the horses seemed haberles expelled from the industry, which was his worldwide,
forcing them to seek life in the cottages.

Women were better than men: dry, black, angular, with masculine trousers
under the skirts, doblábanse the whole day to weed the wheat and starting
seeds.

A Sometimes, when not watching closely, apoderábase of them breed laziness, desire to remain motionless,
staring at the horizon without seeing anything or think about anything.

But so sensed the proximity of the overseer, ran the alarm at the slang that was his only force
strength, which isolated them from the hostility of colleagues.

- Cha, hustle, which sinela er jambo!

"Listen, working, watching the master!"

And each one gave his task, with zeal, with efforts so funny, often Rafael could not help laughing.

Had
closed the night. The dust fell like rain water on the stones of
the courtyard.

Salvatierra talked about going to the Gañanía, ignoring the protests of the overseer. But, really,
was hard to sleep there, a man of merit? ...

- You know where I come from, Rafael - said the revolutionary .-- I have eight years of sleeping
in worst sites and among people more unhappy.

The overseer made a gesture of resignation and called Zarandillo, who was on the block. The
old will serve as a passenger, he stayed there.

- I should enter the Gañanía, Don Fernando.

You have to keep some one of authority; if not, take one and trust is lost.

And speaking of that authority, with firm conviction, respecting it as necessary, after of having
violated many times in the rough adventures of his youth.

Salvatierra and old came out of the courtyard between the barking of dogs, following the outside
wall and came to a shed which gave entrance to the Gañanía.

Under that lined the outside several jars with water supply for the
braceros.

Those who felt thirsty, passing the stifling heat of chill Gañanía the night, and a dock that
looked like liquid ice water, the wind struck them sweaty backs.

Upon crossing the door, Salvatierra felt in his lungs the rarity of the air, while struck his smell
a stench of damp wool, rancid oil, clay and conglomerate, slimy flesh.

It was a long narrow piece, which seemed even bigger by the dense atmosphere and lack of light.
In the background was the home, which burned a fire of dried cow dung, firing a foul odor. A
candle flame as a mark his red and shimmering tear in this environment nebulous. The rest of the room,
completely dark, was in darkness palpitations of life. Guessed the presence of a crowd under
the shroud of shadows.

Salvatierra, to reach the center of the miserable room could see better. At home boiled monitored
several pots made by women on their knees, and sat under the lamp
the aerator, the second officer of the house, which accompanied the
laborers to cut and watched their tasks, exciting with tough words
which together with the overseer was what the government called the
farmhands farmhouse.

The herder was the only one who had a chair in the Gañanía, others, men and women would eat on the
ground. Beside him crouched Manolo Trebujena with friends, getting their spoons in hot soup
screw. The fog was dissipating in the eyes of Salvatierra, already accustomed to this atmosphere
stifling. Then he saw in the corner groups of men and women sitting in the packed earth or
rush mats. Rain, cutting its work by mid-afternoon, they had done to advance the evening meal.
About the bowls of hot slop, talking and laughing moving spoons with
some calm.

Sensed that the next day would be closure, forced idleness, and wished to remain awake late into the
night.

The appearance of the Gañanía crowding of people, evoked the memory of Salvatierra the memory
of the prison. They whitewashed walls, but here less white, smoked by the fuel vapor animal foul,
oozing fat by the continuous rubbing of unwashed bodies. Same hooks on the walls, and hanging
from them all the regalia of poverty, knapsacks, blankets, mattresses gutted, colorful blouses,
hats dirty shoes countless heavy patches with sharp nails.

In prison, each had a backpack, and the Gañanía only very few could afford this luxury. Most
were sleeping on mats, without undressing, resting his aching bones work on hard ground. Bread,
cruel divinity forced to accept the existence miserable, rolled in
pieces on the floor, or are exhibited in the hooks, among the rags,
in huge teleras six pounds, as an idol who could be reached only after
a curvature day overwhelming.

Salvatierra was fixed on the faces of those people who watched him with curiosity, suspending for an
instant food, still holding hands with the spoon in the air.

Under the hats were deformed only covers misery, suffering and masks hunger. Young people had
the vigorous freshness few years. Laughed reflecting their eyes mocking spirit of the race, the
joy of living, without the burden of a family rejoicing the isolated man, which is considered miserable,
you can always move forward. But men showed premature aging, broke into full maturity, the trembling
of valetudinarians, revealing about his aggressiveness in the eyes enlivened by flashes phosphorescent
fierce, cramped with the resignation other than just waiting for death the only freedom.

Bodies were dried, shriveled, annealed by the sun, cracked skin. Food, poor and weak, does not
become the slightest padding between the skeleton and its envelope. Men who had not yet forty
years, showed their emaciated necks, flabby skin and puffed, strained
tendons with aging.

The eyes, in the depths of basin, surrounded by an aura of wrinkles, shining like stars fading
in the background a well. Their physical misery was the result of prolonged fatigue and over
years, bland diet of bread, just bread. The bodies seemed carved rough and angular an ax, others
were deformed and grotesque as being produced by a potter, many remembered, so twisted and gnarled
trunks, wild olive trees in the pastures. The black arms, with the
sharp ridges of a forced gym, looked like twisted branches.

Y stacking of these unhappy exhaled a pungent odor of sweat of the hungry, clothing attached to
the body for months, fetid breath, every breath apestante of misery.

The women even offered a more painful.

Some were gypsies, old and ugly as witches, with tanned skin and copper appeared to have passed
through the fire of all Sabbaths. The girls were painful and senseless beauty of anemia, flowers withered
life that before opening; teens white skin, pale as paper masks,
which the sun I could not warm up, dyeing it at intervals with tiny
spots of color of bran.

Virgin eyes wide open, as if surprised to be born with blue lips the pale pink gums that reveals
the misery of the blood.

The sad and dull hair excited peeked under the handkerchief, keeping in tangles and grain chaff
ground. The chest was the most monotonous uniformity of the wilderness, so that breathing is
marked fabric under the slightest trace of the mounds seductive advance proud as a crest of
sex. Their hands were large and lean and bony arms and men. When
walking, moved about her skirts in a faint ease as if they only exist
within air, and sitting, the fabric marked angles without the faintest
hard roundness. Work, bestial fatigue, had stalled the development
of feminine grace. Only a few betrayed under their shell charms sex,
but there were very few.

Forced to endure the same hardships that
the male herd, only remembered that they were women when late at night,
dark and Gañanía, crammed into a corner were disturbed his sleep weary
load females by the boldness of the young men, that groped while the
old farmhands, cured of the illusion of life, snoring wildly as if
to sleep quicker to recover lost strength.

Salvatierra was at home
when he saw the crowd gate stood up offering his seat. Zarandillo
uncle sat on the floor next to Don Fernando, and he, looking around,
found Capers eyes and teeth gleaming horses smiling.

- Look your
honor, Sr.: This is my mom.

And he showed an old gypsy, Aunt Capers,
who had just stew off the heat chickpea by three little boys sniffed
ravenously, brothers of capers and a skinny girl, and large pale eyes,
was his cousin Mari-Cruz.

- "So your honor is that Don Fernando as
nombrao? - Said the old .-- Well, God give him a lot pa fortune and
a lot of life to be the stand of the probes.

Deposited on land and
the pot, sat with his family around him. It was a meal extraordinary.
The whiff of the beans provided some excitement in the Gañanía, making
converge many looks of envy in the group of Roma. Zarandillo had questions
for the old mockingly. It was a new world.

One thing's certain; Jim and I would never have had the chance of seeing as many different
kinds of people in a hundred years if it hadn't been for the gold. No wonder some of the young
fellows kicked over the traces for a change--a change from sheep, cattle, and horses, ploughing
and reaping, shearing and bullock-driving; the same old thing every day; the same chaps to
talk to about the same things. It does seem a dead-and-live kind of life after all we've seen
and done since. However, we'd a deal better have kept to the bulldog's motter, 'Hang on', and
stick to it, even if it was a shade slow and stupid. We'd have come out right in the end, as
all coves do that hold fast to the right thing and stick to the straight course, fair weather
or foul. I can see that now, and many things else.

But to see the big room at the Prospectors' Arms at night--the hall, they called it--was a
sight worth talking about--as Jim and I walked up and down, or sat at one of the small tables
smoking our pipes, with good liquor before us. It was like a fairy-tale come true to chaps
like us, though we had seen a little life in Sydney and Melbourne.

What made it so different from any other place we'd ever seen or thought of before was the
strange mixture of every kind and sort of man and woman; to hear them all jabbering away together
in different languages, or trying to speak English, used to knock us altogether. The American
diggers that we took up with had met a lot of foreigners in California and other places. They
could speak a little Spanish and French, and got on with them. But Jim and I could only stare
and stand open-mouthed when a Spanish-American chap would come up with his red sash and his
big sheath-knife, while they'd yabber away quite comfortable.

It made us feel like children, and we began to think what a fine thing it would be to clear
out by Honolulu, and so on to San Francisco, as Starlight was always talking about. It would
make men of us, at any rate, and give us something to think about in the days to come.

If we could clear out what a heaven it would be! I could send over for Gracey to come to me.
I knew she'd do that, if I was only once across the sea, ready and willing to lead a new life,
and with something honest-earned and hard-worked-for to buy a farm with. Nobody need know.
Nobody would even inquire in the far West where we'd come from or what we'd done. We should
live close handy to one another--Jim and Jeanie, Gracey and I--and when dad went under, mother
and Aileen could come out to us; and there would still be a little happiness left us, for all
that was come and gone. Ah! if things would only work out that way.

Well, more unlikely things happen every day. And still the big room gets fuller. There's a
band strikes up in the next room and the dancing begins. This is a ball night. Kate has started
that game. She's a great hand at dancing herself, and she manages to get a few girls to come
up; wherever they come from nobody knows, for there's none to be seen in the daytime. But they
turn out wonderfully well-dressed, and some of them mighty good-looking; and the young swells
from the camp come down, and the diggers that have been lucky and begin to fancy themselves.
And there's no end of fun and flirting and nonsense, such as there always is when men and women
get together in a place where they're not obliged to be over-particular. Not that there was
any rowdiness or bad behaviour allowed. A goldfield is the wrong shop for that. Any one that
didn't behave himself would have pretty soon found himself on his head in the street, and lucky
if he came out of it with whole bones.

I once tried to count the different breeds and languages of the men in the big room one night.
I stopped at thirty. There were Germans, Swedes, Danes, Norwegians, Russians, Italians, Greeks,
Jews, Spaniards, Frenchmen, Maltese, Mexicans, Negroes, Indians, Chinamen, New Zealanders,
English, Irish, Scotch, Welsh, Australians, Americans, Canadians, Creoles, gentle and simple,
farmers and labourers, squatters and shepherds, lawyers and doctors. They were all alike for
a bit, all pretty rich; none poor, or likely to be; all workers and comrades; nobody wearing
much better clothes or trying to make out he was higher than anybody else. Everybody was free
with his money. If a fellow was sick or out of luck, or his family was down with fever, the
notes came freely--as many as were wanted, and more when that was done. There was no room for
small faults and vices; everything and everybody was worked on a high scale. It was a grand
time--better than ever was in our country before or since. Jim and I always said we felt better
men while the flash time lasted, and hadn't a thought of harm or evil about us. We worked hard
enough, too, as I said before; but we had good call to do so. Every week when we washed up
we found ourselves a lot forrarder, and could see that if it held on like this for a few months
more we should have made our 'pile', as the diggers called it, and be able to get clear off
without much bother.

Because it wasn't now as it was in the old times, when Government could afford to keep watch
upon every vessel, big and little, that left the harbour. Now there was no end of trouble in
getting sailors to man the ships, and we could have worked our passage easy enough; they'd
have taken us and welcome, though we'd never handled a rope in our lives before. Besides that,
there were hundreds of strangers starting for Europe and America by every vessel that left.
Men who had come out to the colony expecting to pick up gold in the streets, and had gone home
disgusted; lucky men, too, like ourselves, who had sworn to start for home the very moment
they had made a fair thing. How were any police in the world to keep the run of a few men that
had been in trouble before among such a mixed-up mob?

Now and then we managed to get a talk with Starlight on the sly. He used to meet us at a safe
place by night, and talk it all over. He and his mates were doing well, and expected to be
ready for a start in a few months, when we might meet in Melbourne and clear out together.
He believed it would be easy, and said that our greatest danger of being recognised was now
over--that we had altered so much by living and working among the diggers that we could pass
for diggers anywhere.

'Why, we were all dining at the Commissioner's yesterday,' he said, 'when who should walk in
but our old friend Goring. He's been made inspector now; and, of course, he's a great swell
and a general favourite. The Commissioner knew his family at home, and makes no end of fuss
about him. He left for the Southern district, I am glad to say. I felt queer, I must say; but,
of course, I didn't show it. We were formally introduced. He caught me with that sudden glance
of his--devilish sharp eyes, he has--and looks me full in the face.

'"I don't remember your name, Mr. Haughton," said he; "but your face seems familiar to me somehow.
I can't think where I've met you before."

'"Must have been at the Melbourne Club," says I, pulling my moustache. "Met a heap of Sydney
people there."

'"Perhaps so," says he. "I used to go and lunch there a good deal. I had a month's leave last
month, just after I got my step. Curious it seems, too," says he; "I can't get over it."

'"Fill your glass and pass the claret," says the Commissioner. "Faces are very puzzling things
met in a different state of existence. I don't suppose Haughton's wanted, eh, Goring?"

'This was held to be a capital joke, and I laughed too in a way that would have made my fortune
on the stage. If you wanted, you no longer
I! A burst of grief! ... Christ! Paece lie that I'm dead yet! ...

They were silent for a long time.

Absorbed in his thoughts, no longer heard the noise of the fun, feminine
voice that was singing songs.

- Fermin - suddenly said the overseer
.-- You're the only thing that could occur to fix everything.

This is why he had waited out the desktop. He knew his great influence on family. Maria de la
Luz respected him more than his father, and became languages ​​of their wisdom.

Education in England, and the praise of the foreman, who saw his son
intelligence almost as big as his teacher, influenced the girl, eating
in your brotherly kindness a great deal of admiration.

Rafael did not dare to speak the godfather: he was afraid. But Fermin was waiting around,
and trusted him.

- What you tell him to do, that will ... Ferminillo, do not forsake
me, protect me.

You are my employer, I would like to get in and go on an altar candles
and pray to a litany.

Fermin darling me: do not leave me, save me. Soft rock that, in heart, catch me, because otherwise
I and I fall to prison or the madhouse.

Montenegro exaggerations mocked the whimpering of his friend.

- Okay, man, do what you can, but do not weep, nor let go of those prayers, you look like Don
Pablo, my principal, when spoken of God.

Mariquita see: I'll tell him you: I'll tell the very indina what they deserve. What, are you
happy now? ...

Rafael cleaned the tears, and smiled with childlike simplicity, showing
his teeth square of crisp white.

But his joy was impatient. When thinking Fermín see Mariquita?

- Men, tomorrow. On the desktop we are very busy in the year-end settlement. English accounts
give me too busy.

The strapping young man made a gesture of annoyance.

Tomorrow! ... One more night of no sleep, to mourn misfortune, of cruel uncertainty, not knowing
whether to expect anything.

Montenegro laughed at the sadness of the overseer. But how to put the love of mankind! Daba
desire with the rod tip to that young man, like an overgrown child and angry.

- No, Fermin, and I ask you Sallu. Do something for me, see at once and you will draw a soul
with grief. Nothing you say on the desktop: the gentlemen you want,
you spoil your child.

And he besieged with pleas burning, with caressing words, to be at
once sighted with his sister.

Montenegro yielded, overcome by anxiety fine fellow. That would Marchamalo same evening, lie
the head of the desk saying that her father was ill. Don Ramon was
good and would turn a blind eye.

The impatient Rafael then told that they were shorter than the evening of January and the need take
advantage of the time.

Fermín called the servant, who missed the paucity of the two friends, inviting them to ask for
more. Everything was paid! Don Luis had an open mind! ...

Leaving Rafael, went directly to the street, fearing that the master
could see him with his eyes red.

Fermín poked his head into the room of revelry, and after accepting a glass of Dupont fled
from it, trying to catch him by the lapels, for her to stay.

Before the afternoon was Marchamalo Fermin.

Rafael took him on the rump of his horse. His impatience made him twitch his heels, spurring
the animal.

- Are you going to pop it, great! - Shouted Montenegro, sticking his chest to the back of the
rider .-- That weigh much both!

...

But Rafael only thought about the next interview.

- In the very carriage of St. Elias would I take, Ferminillo for you to see before the cunt.

They
stopped at the tavern on the road near the vineyard.

- Do you want
to wait? - Said the overseer .-- I will gladly wait here until the
day of Judgement.

I felt impatient to know the resolution of the girl. But Fermin did not want wait for him. Planned
to spend the night in the vineyard. He continued the march on foot, while Raphael was announced
to voices that would come to fetch the next day.

When Mr. Fermin saw the arrival of her son, she asked anxiously if
anything happened Jerez.

"Nothing, Father." He came to spend the night with the family as on the desktop had given permission
for lack of work.

The old appreciated the visit, but without discarding had expressed concern that the arrival of
his son.

- I thought, to see that something bad happened in Jerez, but still
nothing happens, will happen soon.

Yo, from here, I know everything, never missing a friend of the other wineries that brings me blow
what they think the strikers. Furthermore, in the tavern repeat what they hear on carriers
ranches.

And the foreman told his son of a meeting that the workers were to be held on Next on the plains
of Caulin. Nobody knew who gave the orders, but the call had circulated by word of mouth through
the countryside and the mountains, and would join thousands of men,
coming up to the limits of the province of Malaga, all the wages they
earned in the Jerez countryside.

- A true revolution, son.

Come in all this a stranger, a boy called the Madrid, speaking of
killing the rich and share the treasures of the city.

People seems crazy, everyone thinks that tomorrow will succeed and
that was just misery.

The Madrid uses the name of Salvatierra, as works by his orders, and many say, as if have seen,
that Don Fernando is hidden in Jerez and presented at the time of
revolution.

What do you know this? ...

Fermín shook his head in disbelief. Salvatierra had written some days before without state intentions
to return to Jerez. Doubted that was true travel. In addition, we seemed unlikely this attempt
at revolt.

It would be an alarm over the many invented of the desperation of the hungry. Amounted to an attempt
madness invasion City troops being there.

- I see you, Father, how are met in Caulin, everything is reduced to shouting and threats, and at
meetings in the ranch.

And Don Fernando, do not pass you off. I have the conviction you are in Madrid. It is not so
foolish as to go to engage in crazy like this.

- I myself believe,
son, but about what might happen tomorrow seeks you mix with those
crazy, if you enter the city.

Fermín looked around, eyes searching for her sister. Finally Mary left the house Light, smiling at
his Fermín, welcoming his visit with exclamations of joyful surprise.

The boy looked at her intently. Nothing! Not to talk to Rafael, I could not guess sadness those
who had cut his loves.

It was more than an hour without being able to speak alone with his sister. In the stares Fermin
seemed to guess the girl some of his thoughts. It aims to show impassive but his face, as soon
paled with the transparency of the wax, as flushed with a rush of blood.

Mr. Fermín down the slope of the vineyard, going to meet some carriers passing down the road. His
keen eye of a peasant were recognized from above. They were friends, and wanted They know
what they were talking on the ranches of the meeting the next day.

When left alone the two brothers, their eyes met in the middle of
an awkward silence.

- I have to talk, Mariquita - at last the boy
said with determination.

- Then start anytime, Fermín - she answered
.-- I guessed quiet accent to see that something was coming.

- No,
not here.

Father could return, and what we have to talk takes time and quiet.
Let's take a walk.

And the two set off down the hill, down the slope opposite the highway. Down and between strains
on the back of the tower, going to a limiting line cacti the great
vineyard on this side.

Maria de la Luz tried to stop several times not wanting to go that far. Wished to speak regarding
prior to exit from its agonizing uncertainty.

But the brother was reluctant to start the conversation pisasen while the land under the supervision
of his father.

They stopped at the fence of prickly pears, along with a wide gap revealed a copudo olive grove
after which the sun descending branches.

Fermin had his sister to sit on the bank, and planting himself before her, said sweet smile
to encourage her to trust:

- Let's see, Loquillo: you tell me why you broke with Rafael, why
did you fired like a dog, causing her such pain that the poor seems
to be dying.

Maria de la Luz seemed to take a joke issue, but was pale and his smile was the tension a sad face.

-
Because I love him, because I cansao him, ea! It is a dull boring me. Am I not owner to want a
man like me? ...

Fermin spoke like a rebellious child.

I was lying: he was known in his face. Could not hide that still loved Rafael. There was something
in everything that he knew needed for the good of the bride and groom,
to put back together.

This Boredom Lie! Lie bully that girl power that was expressed to justify breaking Mariquita Rafael!
She was not bad, it could not deal with such cruelty to her old boyfriend. What! Is that how
you break a love affair started almost as a child?

So farewell to a man after to have had it for years and years, as it were, sewn skirts? There
was something his conduct could not be explained, and it was necessary that she be told. Was
not his brother unique and the best of friends?

Do not tell him all the things you did not dare say father, by the respect he inspired in him?
...

But she was insensitive to caressing and persuasive tone of his brother.

- There is nothing of that - said firmly, craning his chest as if to rise .-- All are your
own inventions. No more, I'm tired of dating, I have no man, I spend my life with father and
you. Who better than you? Gone the bride and groom!

The brother greeted these words with a gesture of disbelief.

Lying again! Why soon tired of the man he had wanted? What causes powerful had broken so quickly
love? ... Mariquita Ah! He was not so stupid to swallow an apology
unmeaning.

And as the girl, to hide his embarrassment lifted his voice, repeating
strongly owned their will and could do whatever was to their liking,
Fermin began to chafe.

- Ah, young lady fake!

Alma hard! Heart song! Do you think a man is left when one you think, after having entertained
for years at the gate, maddened groups with little words, saying
that he wants more than life?

For much less them advantage of some the heart of a stab ... Shout: repeats that do what you
please: I think in that unhappy, while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually
a shame, crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez. And that for you
... For you, that you behave worse than a gypsy!

For you vane! ...

Exalting impulses of his anger, he spoke of the sadness of Rafael,
the weeping gesture that had implored his aid, the anguish awaiting
the outcome of mediation.

But he could not talk anymore.

Maria de la Luz, passing suddenly from resistance to discouragement began to mourn, increasing
their groans and tears as the story progressed Fermín of the desperation
loving boyfriend.

- Oh, poor baby! - Wailed the girl, forgetting
all pretense .-- Oh, my Rafael my gun!

...

Softened the voice of the brother.

- I want, do not you see? you want. Tell what you yourself. Why make him suffer? Why that stubbornness,
that he makes you desperate and you mourn?

And boy, leaning on her sister wrapped her in their prayers or shoulders
pushed violently, sensing the gravity of the secret that he hid Ladybug
all trance want to know.

The girl was silent. Listening to his brother groaned as if each of his words penetrated in his
soul, twitching with the pain of torn wounds, but did not open his mouth feared saying too much
and just crying, wailing populated by the silence of the afternoon.

- Talk - shouting imperiously Fermín .-- Say something. You want to Rafael, you may want more
than before. Why do you separate yourself from it? Why do you say goodbye? This is what interests
me, your Silence scares me. Why? Why? Speak, woman, speak, or I'll kill you.

And rudely pushed Maria de la Luz, which, like I could not stand up under the weight of emotion,
was lying in the ditch, his face in his hands.

Began to sunset. You could see the cherry colored disk, behind the branches of olive, and the
black through a lattice. Its last rays, flush with ground, heat with an orange glow the colonnade
of trunks of olive trees, tangles of plants land, the curves of the
body of the girl lying on the ground.

The poignant film erizábase prickly pears as a light skin.

- Speak, Ladybug - Fermin's voice roared .-- Say why you do that.

Say it for your life! Mira you drive me crazy! Tell your brother, your Fermín!

The girl's voice went dim, murky, distant, of that lump lying.

- Do not want ... because I love him very much. I can not love him,
because I love him too much to unhappy.

And with these words as if nerving confusing, Mariquita stood, staring Fermin with his eyes filled
with tears.

Could beat her, could kill her, but she would never speak to Rafael. He had vowed that if considered
unworthy of him, abandon him, although it destroyed her soul. It was a crime rewarding love so intense
that their future existence by introducing something that might insult Raphael, so good, so noble,
so loving.

There was a long silence.

The sun had disappeared.

Now the black olive branches stand out against a sky violet color with a light gold stripe
single horizon.

Fermin was silent, as if terrified by the contact of the mysterious truth, whose touch and feel
believed.

- According to that - he said with a solemn calm - you consider yourself unworthy of Rafael. Flee
because there is something in your life that can be embarrassing,
make you unhappy.

- Yes - she said without lowering his eyes.

-
What is it?

Talk: I believe that a brother should know.

Maria de la Luz went back to hide his head between his hands. Never: Do not speak, had enough
said. It was a torment beyond his strength. If Fermin wanted some, should respect his silence,
let alone that he needed fed. And the rattle of their tears, torn from again the calm of twilight.

Montenegro
showed himself as despondent as his sister. After his outbursts of anger, he felt weak, softened,
humbled by the mystery, that only he could descry.

He spoke softly, with humility, reminding the young the close affection which united their
lives.

They had not met his mother and held for small Fermín the void left
by the death that woman, whose face, kind and sad, barely remembered.

How many times, at the age other guys are sleeping in a warm lap, had a mother for her, rocking
dead of sleep, their cries and suffering manotones? How many times in the days of misery, when
the father was unemployed, had suppressed their hunger to give it
the scraps that would give him other children, peers of their games?

... When she suffered childhood diseases, his brother, who just passed
the head of the edge of the bed, had watched, had stayed with her
without fear of infection.

They were more than brothers, half of his life had been spent together, in touch from the feet
to the front, mixing their breath, their sweat confusing. Each of them did not know what in
his or her body was treated as the other.

Then, when older, this brotherly love soldier by the pain of a sad childhood, had widened. He did
not intend to marry, as if his mission in the world was living at next to his sister, seeing
happy with a good and noble man as Rafael, devoting all his life to the children she had ... To
not keep secrets Fermín Mariquita. Ran him, in moments of doubt, rather than the father ... And
now, the ungrateful, as if suddenly harden your heart, let him suffer impassive, without revealing
the mystery of your life!

- Ah, poor heart! Bad sister!

... And how little I knew!

These reproaches Fermin said breathlessly, as if to mourn, caused more María effect that the
threats and violence before.

- Fermin ... would be dumb to not suffer,
because I know the truth will hurt.

Ay, My Jesus! Breaking my soul to the two men most want! ...

But as the brother demanded, it was hoped, and was what God wanted ... Was upright again and
spoke, without a gesture, without moving only his lips, staring on the horizon, as if in a dream
and tells the story of another person.

Fermin began to get dark and it seemed that all the shadows of twilight
it ran into Skull, clouding his mind, numbed with pain or drowsiness.

Intense cold and chilling, a cold grave, clawing his back.

It was the light breeze of the night, but Fermin seemed like a wind of ice, an ice tornado coming
from the pole for him, just for him.

Maria de la Luz was talking impassive, as if recounts the misery of another woman. Its words
evoked images quick thinking brother.

All I saw Fermin: drunkenness general of the last night of the harvest, the intoxication of
the girl, its collapse as a body inert in the corner of the vats,
and after the arrival of the gentleman to take advantage of the fall.

-
The wine!

The Cursed wine! - Said Maria de la Luz with an expression of anger, causing the liquid Golden
responsible for his misfortune.

- Yes, the wine - repeated Fermín.

And with the thought evoked Salvatierra, recalling his anathema to the evil deity regulating all actions
and affections of a people enslaved by it.

Then her sister's words made him see the awful awakening to fade the
sad delusion of drunkenness, outrage that repelled a man she did not
love, and he still seemed more unpleasant after his easy victory.

It was all over for Maria de la Luz.

Tired evidenced by the strength of his words. And could not be the man she loved. Should appear
cruel, pretending indifference, to make him suffer as a frivolous girl, rather than tell the truth.

She
prevailed in the female common concern that confuses love with virginity
physics.

A woman could only be the wife of the man they carry as a tribute of submission, the integrity
of his body.

She should be like her mother, like all good women knew. The virginity of the flesh was as important
as love, and when we lost, but was by chance, without any will, had to resign, bending his head,
saying goodbye to this and follow the path of life alone and sad,
while the unhappy lover away On the other hand looking for a new ballot
box closed and unbroken love.

Maria de la Luz For evil was irremediable. Rafael loved, the boy's despair increased his enthusiasm,
but never speak to him again. Was resigned to the fact that they had by cruel trick man rather
than loved.

Fermín What did this? Should not it repel her boyfriend, but it's shattered soul? ...

Fermin was silent, his beard in the chest and eyes closed, with immobility death. He looked like a
walking corpse. Suddenly, awakened the human beast rears and roars
to misfortune.

- Ah, outcast bitch! - Roared .-- Bad skin! ¡....!

And
the supreme insult to women's virtue out of his mouth shot Maria de
la Luz. Stepped forward, looking lost and fists. The girl, as if the
painful revelation had sunk into insensibility of idiots, not close
their eyes, not stirred head to avoid the blow.

Fermin's hand without
touching it fell again. It was a flash of ferocity, nothing more.
Montenegro recognized no right to punish his sister. In the mists
of blood color passed before his eyes, thought he saw the bright blue
glasses Salvatierra, cold smile of great goodness. What would the
teacher be there? ... Forgive, undoubtedly, to enfold the victim in
the boundless compassion that inspired the sins of the weak. In addition,
there was the wine as the main culprit: the golden poison, the devil
of amber, spreading its perfume madness and crime.

Fermin was silent
a long time.

- From all of this - he said at last - not a word to
the father. The old man would die.

Sissy nodded in assent.

- If
you were to Rafael - continued - not a word either. I know him: the
poor boy go to prison because of you.

The warning was useless. To
avoid the revenge of Raphael, had lied to her, pretending their cruel
diversions.

Fermin went on grimly, but urgently, without admitting
reply. She Louis Dupont marry ... What you hated? What had fled from
him after that night horrible? ... As this was the only solution.
With the honor of his family played no sir impunity. If you do not
want to love, tolerate him for duty. The same Luis would get it, to
ask for her hand.

- I hate you! I hate! - Ladybug said .-- Do not
come! I do not want to see you! ...

But their protests were dashed
to the firmness of his brother. She could send in their affections,
but was above the honor of his home. Be single, hiding their shame,
with the sad consolation of not having deceived Rafael, could satisfy.
But what about him was his brother? How could I live, looking at all
hours to Luis Dupont, without demanding compensation for their outrage,
thinking that the gentleman was laughing inside of his achievement,
to face him? ...

- Shut up, Mariquita - said harshly .-- A silent
and be obedient. Because as a woman has no able to keep you, let your
brother defend the family honor.

Had closed the night and the two
brothers launched uphill return home. It was a slow climb, painful
legs were trembling, ringing in the ears, panting her breasts, as
if a huge weight will crush them. Carrying on their shoulders he seemed
dead giant, which had to weigh on the rest of his life.

The brothers
had a bad night. During the evening suffered the torment of having
to smile the poor father, to continue their conversation about the
events that were preparing for the next day Fermin to express their
views on the assembly of the rebels in the plains of Caulin.

The
young man could not sleep. Guessed, the other side of the septum,
the Ladybird insomnia; heard continued revolver from his body on the
bed, burst into sighs painful.

Shortly after dawn, Fermín Marchamalo
left, addressing without saying goodbye to his Jerez family. Going
down the road, the first thing he saw was a tavern next to Rafael,
on his horse, standing in the middle of the road, like a centaur.

-
When you come so soon, something that ties Bueno dicirme - said the
tall boy with a confidence Fermin candida it almost brought tears
.-- Drops by that mouth, Ferminillo dear, what results from the study
bring your embassy? ...

Montenegro had to make a violent effort to
lie, hiding with his vague words embarrassment.

The case was going
so well, not too bad. Could rest assured: women's whim without foundation.
The insist that everything is fixed. What mattered was that Mariquita
I wanted the same as before. Could be sure of this.

Which face of
angel, radiant and joyful, that of the tall boy! ...

- Anda, Ferminillo:
climb on the haunches, room! Funny! I'm going to carry Jerez a tell
Jesus. You have more talent and labia, and more that in his head that
the abogaos toos Caiz together, Seville and even Madrí ... If I know
what I grab when latch I looked for my child! ...

The pony was galloping,
spurred by the overseer. He needed to run, sucking air violence, sing
for joy to output, while Fermin behind him, almost crying, innocent
joy of watching, listening to the songs you spent on the skirt, as
if it was again for you, thanks to brother. Talk of money,
it was like the dirt under your feet--in one way, certainly--as the dirt was more often than
not full of gold.

We could see things getting worse on the field after a bit. We didn't set up to be any great
shakes ourselves, Jim and I; but we didn't want the field to be overrun by a set of scoundrels
that were the very scum of the earth, let alone the other colonies. We were afraid they'd go
in for some big foolish row, and we should get dragged in for it. That was exactly what we
didn't want.

With the overflowing of the gold, as it were, came such a town and such a people to fill it,
as no part of Australia had ever seen before. When it got known by newspapers, and letters
from the miners themselves to their friends at home, what an enormous yield of gold was being
dug out of the ground in such a simple fashion, all the world seemed to be moving over. At
that time nobody could tell a lie hardly about the tremendous quantity that was being got and
sent away every week. This was easy to know, because the escort returns were printed in all
the newspapers every week; so everybody could see for themselves what pounds and hundredweights
and tons--yes, tons of gold--were being got by men who very often, as like as not, hadn't to
dig above twenty or thirty feet for it, and had never handled a pick or a shovel in their lives
before they came to the Turon.

There were plenty of good men at the diggings. I will say this for the regular miners, that
a more manly, straightgoing lot of fellows no man ever lived among. I wish we'd never known
any worse. But on every goldfield there's scores and scores of men that always hurry off there
like crows and eagles to a carcass to see what they can rend and tear and fatten upon. They
ain't very particular whether it's the living or the dead, so as they can gorge their fill.
There was a good many of this lot at the Turon, and though the diggers gave them a wide berth,
and helped to run them down when they'd committed any crime, they couldn't be kept out of sight
and society altogether.

We used to go up sometimes to see the gold escort start. It was one of the regular sights of
the field, and the miners that were off shift and people that hadn't much to do generally turned
up on escort day. The gold was taken down to Sydney once a week in a strong express waggon--something
like a Yankee coach, with leather springs and a high driving seat; so that four horses could
be harnessed. One of the police sergeants generally drove, a trooper fully armed with rifle
and revolver on the box beside him. In the back seat sat two more troopers with their Sniders
ready for action; two rode a hundred yards ahead, and another couple about the same distance
behind.

We always noticed that a good many of the sort of men that never seemed to do any digging and
yet always had good clothes and money to spend used to hang about when the escort was starting.
People in the crowd 'most always knew whether it was a 'big' escort or a 'light' one. It generally
leaked out how many ounces had been sent by this bank and how much by that; how much had come
from the camp, for the diggers who did not choose to sell to the banks were allowed to deposit
their gold with an officer at the camp, where it was carefully weighed, and a receipt given
to them stating the number of ounces, pennyweights, and grains. Then it was forwarded by the
escort, deducting a small percentage for the carriage and safe keeping. Government did not
take all the risk upon itself. The miner must run his chance if he did not sell. But the chance
was thought good enough; the other thing was hardly worth talking about. Who was to be game
to stick up the Government escort, with eight police troopers, all well armed and ready to
make a fight to the death before they gave up the treasure committed to their charge? The police
couldn't catch all the horse-stealers and bush-rangers in a country that contained so many
millions of acres of waste land; but no one doubted that they would make a first-rate fight,
on their own ground as it were, and before they'd let anything be taken away from them that
had been counted out, box by box, and given into their charge.

We had as little notion of trying anything of the sort ourselves than as we had of breaking
into the Treasury in Sydney by night. But those who knew used to say that if the miners had
known the past history of some of the men that used to stand up and look on, well dressed or
in regular digger rig, as the gold boxes were being brought out and counted into the escort
drag, they would have made a bodyguard to go with it themselves when they had gold on board,
or have worried the Government into sending twenty troopers in charge instead of six or eight.

One day, as Jim and I happened to be at the camp just as the escort was starting, the only
time we'd been there for a month, we saw Warrigal and Moran standing about. They didn't see
us; we were among a lot of other diggers, so we were able to take them out of winding a bit.

They were there for no good, we agreed. Warrigal's sharp eyes noted everything about the whole
turn-out--the sergeant's face that drove, the way the gold boxes were counted out and put in
a kind of fixed locker underneath the middle of the coach. He saw where the troopers sat before
and behind, and I'll be bound came away with a wonderful good general idea of how the escort
travelled, and of a good many things more about it that nobody guessed at. As for Moran, we
could see him fix his eyes upon the sergeant who was driving, and look at him as if he could
look right through him. He never took his eyes off him the whole time, but glared at him like
a maniac; if some of his people hadn't given him a shove as they passed he would soon have
attracted people's attention. But the crowd was too busy looking at the well-conditioned prancing
horses and the neatly got up troopers of the escort drag to waste their thoughts upon a common
bushman, however he might stare. When he turned away to leave he ground out a red-hot curse
betwixt his teeth. It made us think that Warrigal's coming about with him on this line counted
for no good.

They slipped through the crowd again, and, though they were pretty close, they never saw us.
Warrigal would have known us however we might have been altered, but somehow he never turned
his head our way. He was like a child, so taken up with all the things he saw that his great-grandfather
might have jumped up from the Fish River Caves, or wherever he takes his rest, and Warrigal
would never have wondered at him.

'That's a queer start!' says Jim, as we walked on our homeward path. 'I wonder what those two
crawling, dingo-looking beggars were here for? Never no good. I say, did you see that fellow
Moran look at the sergeant as if he'd eat him? What eyes he has, for all the world like a black
snake! Do you think he's got any particular down on him?'

'Not more than on all police. I suppose he'd rub them out, every mother's son, if he could.
He and Warrigal can't stick up the escort by themselves.'

We managed to get a letter from home from time to time now we'd settled, as it were, at the
Turon. Of course they had to be sent in the name of Henderson, but we called for them at the
post-office, and got them all right. It was a treat to read Aileen's letters now. They were
so jolly and hopeful-like besides what they used to be. Now that we'd been so long, it seemed
years, at the diggings, and were working hard, doing well, and getting quite settled, as she
said, she believed that all would go right, and that we should be able really to carry out
our plans of getting clear away to some country where we could live safe and quiet lives. Women
are mostly like that. They first of all believe all that they're afraid of will happen. Then,
as soon as they see things brighten up a bit, they're as sure as fate everything's bound to
go right. It is clear that this part has to touch the ear incalculable
superiority. This when seen by juxtaposition, you need to go on objects and even different parts of oneself,
whether to receive various impressions: This requires a long time for small numbers they are.
If the objects do not act by juxtaposition, but otherwise, still need more time for the succession,
and is much less variety. Compare this to slow the speed with which the ear perceives all sorts of
sounds in musical combinations, the endless inflections of the voice, the number of joints
different, the endless noise of all species without interruption feel and classify, and refer
to their corresponding objects.

The simultaneity of sensations so vast in the ear, is extremely low in touch: when exists in this,
it is only in relation to few objects, but in that it extends to many and different.

But what most victoriously decide the superiority of hearing about touch is the ease He gives us
to get in communication with the spirit of our fellow human beings through the word facility
resulting from the rapid succession that we have noted above. No doubt this spirit to spirit communication
can also be set by touch, words expressing the characters quite bulky to be distinguished, but
what immense difference between these prints and ear? Even if the habit and concentration of
all forces sensitive, potentially a facility provided walk the lines with his fingers, which
greatly exceeds what we see in the most skilled players of musical instruments, how can you
compare a similar speed with which gives us the ear? How much time will not be necessary for
some tables where you go writing a speech we hear in a few minutes? Also, to be heard, all men
have, the media, you just use the organs to the other is necessary to prepare the tables, and
some they can not be useful, but for an object, and can not serve simultaneously for two people,
when heard through a man communicates only a short time many of ideas to thousands of listeners.

CHAPTER
XII.

IF ONE COULD GIVE IDEA OF HAVING A SURFACE.

[64.] I have made palpable inferiority of touch with regard to the sight and hearing; and thus
have been felt the strangeness of you have been loved as a base point of all knowledge, based
in the certainty of the judgments to which the other senses lead us, and established by the sovereign
arbitrator to rule on appeal in the last questions that may be provided.

I have also said not true that only by touch can make the transition inside to the outside world,
or of the existence of sensations to the objects that the cause: for that to have fought over
the main reason, or rather the only one in which trying to cement this privilege, I have shown
the way in which this transition is with respect to all the senses, based on the nature and
sequence of the internal phenomena.

I tried that too and the only feeling that objetivábamos was the extension; and in all others,
there was only one causal relationship, that is, a certain link feeling or an internal phenomenon,
with an external object, but nothing to this trasladásemos similar to what we experienced at
that.

[65.] Concerning to the extension, there are two ways that are sure to inform us of it: touch
and vision; dispense for now, whether it is a real feeling that the extension have, or if an idea
of ​​a different order, which results from the feeling. Intending discuss this point later, for now
I will confine myself to compare the view with the touch regarding to give the sensation of extension,
or if you like, to provide what is necessary in order to form idea
of ​​it.

Since then check to see that the extension is under the domain of touch, and this recital extension
not only surface but also in volume. A sight not be denied the same power with respect to the
surface, it is impossible to do without at the same time be offered at least one plane. Unextended
point may not be painted on the retina, from when an object is painted has painted parts. Not
even by an effort of imagination unextended colors can conceive:
what is a color if there is no surface on which spreading?

[66.] Condillac has been so hard on the eyesight, which has refused to grant the ability to
perceive the extent or even in surface. As the philosopher is one of the that have contributed
most to the spread and entrenchment of an opinion so wrong, I will examine doctrine, and the reasons
therefor.

A simple reading of the chapters in the exposed, the eyes jump was not quite sure of the truth
of it, feeling upset by inexperience and reason.

The Treaty of sensations (f p., c. XI), which examines the ideas of a limited man the sense of sight,
sits distinguish the colors to our eyes, because they seem form a surface which they occupy
one hand, and then asks, "our statue judging that is at once colorful, would you feel to itself
as a kind of surface red? "It must be noted that according to Condillac, the statue limited to
one sense you would think the feeling itself, that is, would think that is smell, sound or taste,
according to were the nose, ear or palate, the senses that had in-Office, for which reason, if
the sensations of sight enter the area, the statue should believe
surface red.

Dispense with the accuracy of these comments, especially the main point which is the relationship of
sight to the surface.

[67.] According to Condillac, the statue would not believe a painted surface, that is, perceiving
color, would not perceive the surface. Let's talk at the same philosopher, for its sufficient
own words to condemn his opinion and uncertainty discover that the professed or the darkness
that she suffered. "The idea of ​​the extension is the perception of many some other things outside,
this perception can not deny it to the statue, because he feels repeating itself off as many times
as there are colors that change, while it the flesh, you feel out of green: while it is green,
you feel out of the flesh; and so do the rest. "Anyone would think that according to these principles,
Condillac was to establish that the view gives an idea of ​​the extension, because that makes us perceive
things, some outside the other, as according to the author, is precisely the idea of ​​extension;
but on the contrary, Condillac, further away from the true path, is unfortunately lost, and to be
more at odds with the principles just settle, significantly alters the state of the question and
continues, "but to be distinct and accurate idea of ​​a magnitude, you need to see how things
were perceived some other, are linked, are completed each other, and as all boards have limits
that circumscribe. "This, again, is to alter the state the question: for now is not a distinct and
accurate idea, but only a idea. The extent to which the hearing could improve the idea of ​​extension,
this is a question different, but jumps to the eyes if the eye alone
can give us an idea of ​​extension, the continued exercise of this
sense would go perfecting the same idea.

[68.] La statue, Condillac's opinion, could not feel limited to no limit because they would know
nothing outside itself, but do not just tell the author that the
statue you would think the different colors, these are one off from
others, and when serious one would feel out the other?

Is not there by chance with this one, not one but many limits?

This argument is not hiding at all to Condillac, after having asked if yo the statue surface
modified by a blue bordered with white, blue would think not over, says, "at first sight would
be inclined to think so, but the contrary opinion is much more plausible. "And why? "The statue
can not feel long for this area but as each one gives you the same modification, each should
produce the sensation of blue; but if it is modified in the same way by a foot of the surface by
an inch or a line can not be represented in this modification, a magnitude rather than another,
then does not represent any, then a sensation of color brings a sense of extension. " It is
easy to see that the same or Condillac supposed to be played, or not say anything conducive
to resolve the issue. According to him the statue is modified in the same way by a foot of a painted
surface by a line that, if by this he means that the two modifications are identical in every
respect, is the same as to prove, because this is precisely what is disputed, namely, whether the
different surfaces also produce sensation magnitude different, and if you mean, as he shows his
words, that the sensation as color, and only in color, is the same in his foot in a line, tells
the truth very true, but we are not useless. Undoubtedly, the sensation of blue, as blue is the
same in different sizes, and nobody thinks of denying it, but the question is not 're at it,
the remaining question is whether a same color, the sensation of sight is modified in different
ways, according the range of magnitudes where the painted surface is presented. Condillac denies it,
rather than from an uncertain and fluctuating, but I think this refusal is as baseless, which
can prove quite the opposite.

[69.] Condillac I wonder if there can be no surface color, if you can paint on retina unextended
object, if we can not even conceive of a color without extension,
none of this possible: then the vision is necessarily accompanied
by the extension.

[70.] Condillac extension gets the idea that some things are presented to us out of others;
This, he admits, is verified with the sensation of color, then the vision of what Colorado must
produce the idea of ​​the extension. The evasion of Condillac, is extremely weak: tells us
that to get an idea of ​​the extension is necessary to take the limits, but first took place
and proved by the same author's doctrine, that these limits are felt; and besides, is very
singular pretension of giving sight to give us the right idea an unlimited extension, and refuse to
produce idea of ​​limit: as if the same thing see the extended, not
born the idea of ​​limited, or other causes, the same limitation the
body, as if it were not feeling more inconceivable that the limited
unlimited.

But I would assume that the boundary is not felt, the unlimited extension
longer extension "?

Is it not rather the extension of excellence? Does the idea of ​​endless space, being unlimited,
longer extension idea?

[71.] Put in front of the eyes two red circles, one of an inch in diameter, and another of a rod, irrespective
of any sense of touch is the effect produced in the retina will be
the same?

Obviously not: this is opposed to experience, reason is opposed founded the laws of reflection
of light and mathematical principles. If this impression is different the difference will be
felt, then the difference of the magnitudes can be appreciated.

But I suppose that ignoring the experience and reason, insists on the claim that any the feeling
of the two circles is the same: I am going to make palpable the surprise and even absurdity
of this opinion. Imagine that the two circles are colored red and finished by a blue line,
take the small circle and put a more confusing within their centers; wonder: does the eye see
the figure, not see the small circle within the larger? Is not see the blue line that completes
the circle of an inch in diameter, contained within the other blue
line that completes the circle of a rod? is clearly yes.

Now, feel extension, is it nothing but feel some parts out of others? feel the difference
magnitude is not feeling the greatest about the other and holding each other? is evident yes.
Then feel the magnitude of the eye, then feel the extension.

[72.] Still can be confirmed more and more the truth I'm showing. Experience teaches us, and when
this did not exist, reason would tell us that the visual field has a limit, according to the
distance at which we are the object. So when we set eyes on a wall of great extension, we
do not see any, but a part of it. Suppose that in a visual field is an object of a given quantity,
but not very full or surface covered by the eye, according to the system of Condillac, the vision
can not be different, provided the color is the same, which will result that the feeling will be
identical whether the object occupies a small part of the visual
field, whether it occupies almost everything.

Result also, that if the visual field is a great blank canvas for example a hundred yards square,
and the object is a blue canvas of a square yard, the feeling is the same as if the canvas
Blue was an inch or ninety yards square.

[73.] These arguments that at least on confused, they must be offered to Condillac, rendered
him speak with hesitation, and even contradictory. We have already been noted in the above passages,
but is still clearer in the following. "We need the term to express precisely the feeling he
has of the statue itself changed many colors at once, but at last she knows that there is in
many ways, is perceived somewhat like a red point beyond which there are others in which she returns
to find; and in this respect we can say that it feels long. "Before, we had said that the color
not it be extended to the statue, until instructed by the light touch, form eyes the habit
of referring the simple and unique feeling, to all points of the surface; Immediately afterwards, says
the opposite as we have seen, and it feels large statue: and the ideologue can not find another
way to avoid contradiction, but to warn the feeling of the extension would be vague, as it
would have no limits. This is a contradiction that it is palpable above where does this lack
of limits? if a visual field a hundred yards of white surface, are
assumed various shapes of different colors, green, flesh, the sight
perceive the limits of those figures, as is evident where it Condillac
has discovered that endlessness that speaks to us?

[74.] The observation that, although the sensation of color wrap the extension, not follow that produjese
us up because of that we do not draw from the sensations all ideas they contain, but only those
which we noted, although very real, does not lead to anything in the present instance, it is
not what we might draw from sensation, but what is in it, and if that Condillac Seats can
touch the remove the extension idea what right can deny this power
with respect to the view, assuming that the idea of ​​extension is
contained in both sensations?

If I am not mistaken, there is here a tacit confession of the falsity of his opinion. The idea
of extension will be in the sense of sight, but we can not remove it, why? because is vague, but
then who takes the year, bringing the comparison and reflection,
make it accurate? The difficulty is to acquire one way or another,
the improvement is the work time.

She'd thrown her arms round my neck and was sobbing on my shoulder when she finished. I took
her over to the sofa, and made her sit down by the side of me.

'Kate,' I said, 'this won't do. There's neither rhyme nor reason about it. I'm as fond of you
as ever I was, but you must know well enough if you make a bolt of it now there'll be no end
of a bobbery, and everybody's thoughts will be turned our way. We'll be clean bowled--the lot
of us. Jim and I will be jugged. You and Jeanie will be left to the mercy of the world, worse
off by a precious sight than ever you were in your lives. Now, if you look at it, what's the
good of spoiling the whole jimbang for a fancy notion about me? You and I are safe to be first-rate
friends always, but it will be the ruin of both of us if we're fools enough to want to be more.
You're living here like a regular queen. You've got a good husband, that's proud of you and
gives you everything you can think of. You took him yourself, and you're bound to stick to
him. Besides, think of poor Jeanie and Jim. You'll spoil all their happiness; and, more than
all--don't make any mistake--you know what Jeanie thinks of a woman who leaves her husband
for another man.'

If you let a woman have a regular good cry and talk herself out, you can mostly bring her round
in the end. So after a bit Kate grew more reasonable. That bit about Jeanie fetched her too.
She knew her own sister would turn against her--not harsh like, but she'd never be the same
to her again as long as she lived.

The lamp had been put out in the big hall. There was only one in this parlour, and it wasn't
over bright. I talked away, and last of all she came round to my way of thinking; at any rate
not to want to clear off from the old man now, but to wait till I came back, or till I wrote
to her.

'You are right, Dick,' she said at last, 'and you show your sense in talking the way you have;
though, if you loved as I do, you could not do it. But, once more, there's no other woman that
you're fonder of than me? It isn't that that makes you so good? Dick Marston good!' and here
she laughed bitterly. 'If I thought that I should go mad.'

What was I to do? I could not tell her that I loved Gracey Storefield ten times as much as
I'd ever cheated myself into thinking I cared about her. So I swore that I cared more for her
than any woman in the whole world, and always had done so.

This steadied her. We parted good friends, and she promised to keep quiet and try and make
the best of things. She turned up the lamp to show me the way out, though the outer door of
the hall was left open night and day. It was a way we had at the Turon; no one troubled themselves
to be particular about such trifles as furniture and so on. There was very little small robbery
there; it was not worth while. All petty stealers were most severely punished into the bargain.

As I stood up to say good-bye a small note dropped out of my breast-pocket. It had shifted
somehow. Kate always had an eye like a hawk. With one spring she pounced upon it, and before
I could interfere opened and read it! It was Gracey Storefield's. She stood for one moment
and glared in my face. I thought she had gone mad. Then she threw the bit of paper down and
trampled upon it, over and over again.

'So, Dick Marston,' she cried out hoarsely, her very voice changed, 'you have tricked me a
second time! The companies of cavalry of Puno, and the Tiquillaca, commanded by D. Andres Calisaya, This
second village chief, with others of the Chucuito, opposed to those who tried attack by the Cerro
de Queroni, but never locked combat, because undertaken fled to the slopes of the mountain,
and down when our retired. As was decided that Captain D. Juan Asencio Monastery, with the assistant
D. Francisco del Castillo, and some other officials from other provinces, incorporated with the
rifle company, advanced supported by the cavalry, as egecutaron happily, pushing back the enemy to
mountains, was the result of which free people everywhere. Function lasted until six in the evening:
it repeatedly attacked the enemy with all his might, that as it is passed from 18.000 the combatants,
and ours only came to 1.400. The fixed number of the dead were, we could not investigate because
they looked after they are removed promptly, but in response to live and continued to fire
they suffered, were to be believed many, and the highest number of wounded. Of us was hurt Chucuito
Governor a rifle bullet that pierced his left thigh, and dislocated the same Orellana foot of
a fall from his horse, which briefly noticed discomfort, and continued the action. Other officers
and soldiers were also wounded, and some of them dangerously, but ended happily the result
of his injuries.

At night, doubled the care and safety precautions to prevent a surprise;
but the rebels abandoned the site, leaving only a piece to conceal
his withdrawal: to provide coverage to better their true intention,
which maintained its cautious view used to make some proposals to
the clergymen who placed themselves to parley its immediacy, again
asking the person be handed the magistrate Orellana, and publish the
They sent camp, commanded by the traitor see José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru,
entertaining part of the morning with these and other stratagems,
something more subtle and warned, regularly than a nation renowned
thought humble and uneducated, to disappeared all in search of the
first who gave up the effort.

Then Reconocióse was certain the entire withdrawal, and no doubt would go in much disorder,
it was decided remain upon the villa companies that were considered necessary for safekeeping,
and the rest of the troops out in scope, under the command of Colonel Chucuito militias, D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza, were pulverized to the rear with the prevention of too strive not with enemies. He managed
to achieve a league and a half away, on a mountain not very high, to the left the real way
of Cuzco. The minute they were immediate, the first alighted, and unite them without waiting
for the others, began the fire on some Indians, who separated the bulk of his army occupied
and defended a short eminence of stone, where they were rejected instantly, and went to meet
with others, in the top of the hill, which was where they had their charges. There was renewed fighting
with incredible bravery of obstinacy and both sides, because without the rifle, he believed
more suitable for entertaining to the contrary, wreaking havoc on them, which was also defended
with courage and perseverance. However could have achieved a glorious action, if companies of cavalry
had copied to the forefront the few who fought with courage and bravery, but in spite of zealous
activity that sought to carry the fight their Commander Mendiolaza could not reduce the persuasion
or the example I gave, putting himself at the head of them, making he fire the enemies amid
a flurry of stones which they threw their slings from close range, and seeing that nothing could,
abandoned the attempt which had proposed stay in that place until the next day to continue the
attack, and play sent the call to retire to Puno, as they performed. But the same disobedience
of troops caused the disorder, and perish in the function and removed six of us: rather than
bought enemies to much price advantage because they had more casualties, having suffered more
than two hours, a high heat to them by the musketry.

Although it managed to repulse the rebels in Puno, who founded the trust in futility that were
directed against the Indians of that village where people traveled, caused dire misfortunes.
In the village of Coata wiped himself every day to Spanish and mestizos who may have to blows, and
the same happened in the Capachica. On the other part, the people of Yunguyo Desaguader Cepita
Chucuito province, declared by the party of rebellion and joined the province Pacajes, preventing
pass an extraordinary, Orellana dispatched by the Commander of the Peace, asking him appoint
a sugeto able to maintain and defend that position should be considered already in care to that
as a result of the fall of the horse was unable to continue as important Object: and considering
that he had been fruitless diligence, did not think of another thing that prevented damage to
lower than expected, and resist invasions that repetition of the
insurgents.

Also Chucuito Governor, then he knew the alteration of the first towns in the province, asking
the media to calm down, and having tried on board, war which seemed more appropriate, submit proposed
to contain armed men those movements, to which no Orellana agreed by the consideration that,
being arising the same cause as others, it was essential that the whole province were moved,
and Thus detachment getting locked in the center of it: as indeed it happened to that, the Governor
particular order, are sent to the chief's Pomata, D. José Toribio Castilla, who was killed
with 25 men who accompanied him on his own people, who took occasion to declare to the neighbors
discovered by the rebel side.

With the news of this second unfortunate event, the same magistrate determined to send all militias
in the province, who marched under the guidance of Captain D. Santiago Road and on arriving
at Juli recognized the bloody havoc of all the inhabitants of that town, which passed by the Spanish,
whose assets had been plundered, without getting rid of the sacred temples of anger and profanity,
taking the rebels for asylum after the mountaintops immediate. Upon entering our people in the population,
they found the plazas and streets flooded of blood and bodies thrown everywhere and found no
one who would give them reason of that fateful show: until the noise of some fusilazos who shot
at Indians who descended to the foot of some hills to bother them, they go to the priests
and a few others who managed to escape, tucked into the most secret places, and assured the captain
Road that there were no other hidden, gathered his people and went back to the campaign all
those who had had the happiness of freedom from the careful application
of the Indians and went back to the vicinity of YLAB, where he had
participated as occurred, and accordingly was determined in a council
of war to continue its withdrawal, but did not obey, until he forced
many Indians Acora people who suddenly declared by the usurpudor whose
novelty Orellana said to them that went for a body troops under his
command, only to sustain the withdrawal, because the just care of
their capital did not allow anything else, not least stay away from
it for long.

Shortly after his arrival, he received the news that the Indian rebels were on Puno: The Governor
communicated Chucuito, Moya, and called him, warning exploited the moments to help him. He
raised his field and was launched at twelve o'clock at night, leaving willing to follow him as
the only way in those critical circumstances, which effectively egecutaron immediate morning
to Chucuito Acora escorting the neighborhood, and those July and had escaped YLAB, whose populations
are immediately seized by the rebels, and delivered to the flames in jail, the gallows and
some private houses, looting in Furniture churches which tried to protect the sacred shadow of
his respect. For Azangaro part of our weapons were happier, as a small detachment, released by
Orellana under the command of D. Calisaya Andres, chief of the village of Tiquillaca, did not
Capachica only relief but also to cover those Pusi, Saman, and Caminaca Taraco that infested by
the rebels, chastened by death of some, and removing the livestock they had. So also D. Melchor
Frias and Castellanos, at the head of the faithful Indian peoples of Mañazo, Vilque, Cavana,
and Cavanilles, who had come forward to provide their people King's service, he traveled the road
of Arequipa, and he defeated a party of thieves, commanded by an Indian named Juan Mamani, who
had intercepted, slaying him and to many of his people, after a stubborn resistance, of whose
results were Free Spanish 20 wives who were prisoners, and the Indians
seized a faithful considerable deprivation, from how much they had
stolen from the people and roads.

Esponse is withdrawn as Chucuito militias to its capital, Captain D. Santiago Road, inquired of
the Board of War, established in Puno, if withdrawal should continue until incorporated into that
town with the other troops, stay in defense of the city, if attacked by enemies, since the
drain and Cepita, continued the conquest across the province, and in this case begged succor
you with live ammunition. Responded the Board, which is franquearian, not only ammunition but
also that it would strengthen with people who are considered necessary, then to report the
number of enemies who threatened, but at the same time he wrote privately to the Governor Moya
commander, to attempt to withdraw all the troops, provisions made to discover any animosity
between these two magistrates, who regularly undergoes Unfortunately, when many have part in
military operations, as everyone wants to own a glory that is envied even those who are unable to acquire
it, and that many misfortunes have followed hard after repair, as happened on this occasion,
for while it was decided, determined Chucuito attack the garrison of a party of Indians coming
to him. Standing in the road, and engaged in combat in the summit and slopes of a mountain of very
harsh and difficult climb, at a distance of half a league from the city, where the value was
not enough that the enemy attacked known to gain advantage, and came up to meet him the next
morning, already found the situation improved, but still fought a long time without fruit.

In the afternoon the enemy recognized the little damage they received from a mason, with which sought
to offend, and determined to seize him, as indeed he got, attacking precipitation suddenly and
those who defended him, who put in a shameful and hasty flight, which followed a total disorder
in others. Indians do not miscarry this favorable opportunity presented to them, and upload it again
with all the fugitives, followed them to lock them in the city, in the scope of which killed many
of the ours. The Indians did not dare to penetrate even into the population, and retired In
the foothills of the mountains that dominate it, after having set fire to a few ranches around,
satisfied with the benefits they had achieved, but the confusion extremity where were those
militants, led to a total lack of obedience, and without repair the danger to which esponian,
scattered and disordered fled to Puno, arriving many the same night, referring to that event
with mournful wailing and greatly exaggerated the number enemies that made up to the immense.
Novelty Difundióse instantly throughout the villa, and dismayed by this sort of tensions, which
Orellana came to suspect trying to leave their troops, so that was obliged to take great precautions
to avoid it, and to the Next morning, though the missing part of Lampa not just fears of new attack
Chucuito marched to three companies of cavalry, in order to investigate the situation of Indians,
and which enters the same city if the road was disengaged, but with orders not to engage in
any function, but only supports withdrawal Officers and soldiers who had remained, and also to pick
up the wretched Spanish of that neighborhood, and seek to free them
from the fury of the Indian rebels.

They let the enemies this task to the same city, but was cautious because immediately occupied
a gorge inevitably more difficult to withdrawal, which warned by the commander, while he was
gathering all who had been in Incas, it was necessary to throttle back, yet he was obliged to
open Step by force, whose stock lost some soldiers, unable to avoid the havoc The rebels did
in those who sought to save the shelter of this relief, in which also lost his life occasion
the priest of the Church of Santa Cruz de Juli, he could avoid the first risk of loss in the
commotion of his people. The first to arrive to Puno referred the conflict in which they supposed
to Chucuito, with news of which sent Orellana gets ready musketry all determined to go in
person to help her, and by the act of undertaking the , they arrived other circumstances that
varied widely, ensuring it had delivered the Most of the people, and came back a little with the
three companies incorporated of cavalry, and also was useless to go for those who had not been
able to pass the gorge where the rebels were posted, because inevitably had already perished.
Reasons they did suspend the output, and very soon gave him the most just cause for feeling
He recognized the deception and lack of many sugetos estimation, particularly of D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza and others, which forced him again to send balza be carried to the lake to the
immediate banks to Chucuito, to liberate some who had hidden in the straw, reed call, that
abounds.

Then they left the city cited the three companies of cavalry, entered
the Indian rebels without resistance, and executed the most atrocious
cruelties.

Killed more than 400 Spanish and mestizos of either sex, without reserve the creatures chest. Within
the priest's house, the cathedral seeking asylum, went to many unhappy sword. With sacrilegious
audacity desecrated temples, without the veneration and respect due serve a shield to those
who had hidden in them, because removing them at the doors of the church, they took away the lives
on the threshold of the house of the Lord. Determined to pass the same Orellana the third
day his troops to prevent some, if he could, so many horrors, but again penetrated with sorrow
to view the pitiful sight he found the streets and squares, and disastrous idea that the entire
population had reduced to ashes, and only had occasion to recognize the skill with which the
zeal of D. Claveras Peter had moved days before more than 240 Puno quintals of quicksilver and important
roles for SM, which were in the royal treasury, which also got involved in the fire all the
people. There was in it other than Spanish the two priests and a few clergy, who also awaited
the death that day, intifada the inhuman leader of the rebels, if not declared the camp site
where they supposed hidden SM flows, the danger averted by the arrival of Orellana, whom expressed with
tears of her heart, and then thought about returning to Puno, traffic which carried the enemy
to the Gorges, with intent to cut up, as it had been earlier: but they were frustrated the plan to
have bet some Rifle pickets who held them with the loss of three or four of the most daring.

At
the same time or with little difference, the Indians of that part of Azangaro, doubling their efforts,
back on the people of Capachica, whose faithful Indians had some mestizos rejection of the principles,
but finally gave in to the crowd, which empowered the population,
used the same cruelties on the other, from the sword and to all the
Spanish people white, which may have to blows.

So, there were no nearby Spanish Puno others that sought to invoke that with time the shadow
of the trenches of that town, which was like a small island in the middle of Loyalty a sea
of ​​rebellion that surrounded on all sides. Indian rebels Desaguadero Omasuyos and Pacajes
rid of care that gave them the province of Chucuito, with total ruin of their capital, were warned to
attack to Puno, in concert with those who occupied Lampa provinces and Azangaro. This risky situation
to the truth, compelled him Orellana to ask for some relief to the captain of grenadiers of the regiment
of infantry veteran of Lima, D. Ramon Arias, and colonel of militia, D. José Moscoso, with a detachment
of 500 Arequipa men had left, and lies nine leagues away alone, but only replied that they had no
orders from their chiefs to cross, much less wanted to send ammunition and food she will buy,
if that ground before; as executed, leaving the center to Orellana provinces revolted those without
more resources than they had in the short-occupied premises, where he was alone, because Moya
Governor was compelled to go to Arequipa to heal the wound as a result of he had received in
the thigh in the attack of the day March 11. This statement left see rebel Chucuito the day
April 9, 1781, and until the next morning were marching to occupy the neighboring mountains that
dominate to Puno. Orellana had increased some defenses to resist. He raised a tower at the site
Guansapata advantageous, which placed a cannon and a mason, with the corresponding musketry
for safekeeping. Inside the villa reinforced trenches, and grew, opening new pits in places
that seemed weaker. I had three more guns, he did cast in all diligence, and sought to provide
themselves with powder and ball, with which orders are hopes conceived to repel the rebels
who tried to invade later.

In fact, the morning of 10 immediate woke up, forming a semi-circle on the hilltops, where attempted
to seize a portion of livestock, leading to hostilities beginning this term and remove the
subsistence of the garrison and neighborhood. To avoid this highlighted companies of cavalry,
and although they had the orders not to commit, could not contain, and rushed to the enemy:
so that not only thwarted his attempt, but also evicted the land they occupied.

After the operation which had been referred to these companies, commanded bet Orellana outside
the population, towards Chucuito Avenues because it was discovered that part the bulk of enemies,
who were quick to lock them some lasting escaramusas until two in the afternoon, it came out
to support part of the musketry, causing a fire continued on that liberalized. From the turret
of Guansapata and square are made also quite fire with artillery, whose shots coming with opportunity
and success, caused some havoc on the enemy, who retreated to the most fearful eminent Orcopata
hill, until with the approach of night ceased all hostilities on both part without the one we
had perished, but many of his own, with a number who had significant injuries. On the opposite side
and Hill had been stationed Quicksilver from morning a party of enemies, who were kept in constant
motion, gesturing to undertake the Indians Mañazo entire period of the attack others. With the
idea of cut and is not held in the other, Orellana gave the order for a task cavalry come
out to attack them, which so aptly egecutó, which came at the same time Paucarcolla faithful
Indians, and stay Guaca Moro, who took them from behind. And to be sure but the try and force
them to surrender, the position was reinforced with some pickets Rifles, who arrived very late
and were unable to rise to be very rough and dangerous: they stated obstacles to retreat to the
square, where some went very abused the hondazos who had received, which is why it took the provindencia
of command the Indians stay faithful and maintain their position, and that the guard Mañazo
the opposite slope until the next morning, they probably thought would be achieved, whether
the low compliance and no warning of the chief had given them no Bastinza the means of escape.
Thus the second invasion resisted the village suffered Pano, and although the number of enemies
that rushed, was not as great as in the first less the confidence was not taking it, but disappointed
by the same method to withdraw at night, with only the difference of having followed their flight
without stopping anywhere, for long afraid to come out the garrison in scope, as in fact he
practiced Orellana it some distance, to prevent damage to suspicious egecutasen Icho Indians
from the jurisdiction of the province, which until then had not missed to the fidelity, diligence
fails, because when he came to this town, and had his throat cut to all the Indian revenge
this inhumanity, the fidelity of their husbands who were enrolled in Pano, constantly following its legitimate
sovereign flags

.


One man was a bit in front--riding a fine horse, too. The next one had a led horse, on which
rode poor old Jim, looking as if he was going to be hanged that day, as Billy said, though
I knew well he wasn't thinking about himself. I don't believe Jim ever looked miserable for
so long since he was born. Whatever happened to him before he'd have a cry or a fight, and
it would be over. But now his poor old face looked that wretched and miserable, as if he'd
never smile again as long as he lived. He didn't seem to care where they took him; and when
the old horse stumbled and close upon fell down he didn't take notice.

When I saw that, my mind was made up. I couldn't let them take him away to his death. I could
see he wouldn't live a month. He'd go fretting his life about Jeanie, and after the free life
he'd always led he'd fall sick like the blacks when they're shut up, and die without any reason
but because a wild bird won't live in a cage.

So I took aim and waited till they were just crossing the creek into the forest. The leading
man was just riding up the bank, and the one that led Jim's horse was on the bit of a sand
bed that the water had brought down. He was the least bit ahead of Jim, when I pulled trigger,
and sent a ball into him, just under the collar-bone. I fired high on purpose. He drops off
his saddle like a dead man. The next minute Billy the Boy raises the most awful corroboree
of screams and howls, enough for a whole gang of bush-rangers, if they went in for that sort
of thing. He emptied four chambers of his revolver at the leading trooper right away, and I
fired at his horse. The constable never doubted--the attack was so sudden and savage like--but
there was a party of men hid in the brush. Billy's shots had whistled round him, and mine had
nearly dropped his horse, so he thought it no shame to make a bolt and leave his mate, as seemed
very bad hit, in our hands.

His horse's hand-gallop growed fainter and fainter in the distance, and then we unbound poor
Jim, set his feet at liberty, and managed to dispose of the handcuffs. Jim's face began to
look more cheerful, but he was down in the mouth again when he saw the wounded man. He began
at once to do all he could for him. We stopped a short distance behind the brush, which had
already helped us well.

Jim propped up the poor chap, whose life-blood was flowing red through the bullet-hole, and
made him as comfortable as he could. 'I must take your horse, mate,' he says; 'but you know
it's only the fortune of war. A man must look after himself. Some one'll come along the road
soon.' He mounted the trooper's horse, and we slipped through the trees--it was getting dark
now--till we came to our horses. Then we all rode off together. We took Billy the Boy with
us until he put us on to a road that led us into the country that we knew. We could make our
own way from there, and so we sent off our scout, telling him to ride to the nearest township
and say he'd seen a trooper lying badly wounded by the Bargo Brush roadside. The sooner he
was seen to, the better chance he'd have.

Jim brightened up considerably after this. He told me how he'd gone back to say good-bye to
Jeanie--how the poor girl went into fits, and he couldn't leave her. By the time she got better
the cottage was surrounded by police; there was no use being shot down without a chance, so
he gave himself up.

'My word, Dick,' he said, 'I wished for a bare-backed horse, and a deep gully, then; but it
wasn't to be. There was no horse handy, and I'd only have been carried into my own place a
dead man and frightened the life out of poor Jeanie as well.'

'You're worth a dozen dead men yet, Jim,' I said. 'Keep up your pecker, old man. We'll get
across to the Hollow some time within the next twenty-four hours, and there we'll be safe anyhow.
They can't touch Jeanie, you know; and you're not short of what cash she'll want to keep her
till this blows over a bit.'

'And what am I to do all the time?' he says so pitiful like. 'We're that fond of one another,
Dick, that I couldn't hardly bear her out of my sight, and now I'll be months and months and
months without a look at her pretty face, where I've never seen anything yet but love and kindness.
Too good for me she always was; and what have I brought her to? My God! Dick, I wish you'd
shot me instead of the constable, poor devil!'

'Well, you wasn't very far apart,' I says, chaffing like. 'If that old horse they put you on
had bobbed forward level with him you'd have got plugged instead. But it's no use giving in,
Jim. We must stand up to our fight now, or throw up the sponge. There's no two ways about it.'

We rattled on then without speaking, and never cried crack till we got to Nulla Mountain, where
we knew we were pretty safe not to be followed up. We took it easier then, and stopped to eat
a bit of bread and meat the girls had put up for me at Jonathan's. I'd never thought of it
before. When I took the parcel out of the pocket of my poncho I thought it felt deuced heavy,
and there, sure enough, was one of those shilling flasks of brandy they sell for chaps to go
on the road with.

Brandy ain't a good thing at all times and seasons, and I've seen more than one man, or a dozen
either, that might just as well have sawed away at their throats with a blunt knife as put
the first glass to their lips. But we was both hungry, thirsty, tired, miserable, and pretty
well done and beaten, though we hadn't had time to think about it. That drop of brandy seemed
as if it had saved our lives. I never forgot it, nor poor Maddie Barnes for thinking of it
for me. And I did live to do her a good turn back--much as there's been said again me, and
true enough, too.

It was a long way into the night, and not far from daylight either, when we stumbled up to
the cave--dead beat, horses and men both. We'd two minds to camp on the mountain, but we might
have been followed up, hard as we'd ridden, and we didn't like to throw a chance away. We didn't
want the old man to laugh at us, and we didn't want to do any more time in Berrima--not now,
anyhow. We'd been living too gay and free a life to begin with the jug all over again.

So we thought we'd make one job of it, and get right through, if we had to sleep for a week
after it. It would be slow enough, but anything was better than what we'd gone through lately.

After we'd got down the mountain and on the flat land of the valley it rested our feet a bit,
that was pretty nigh cut to pieces with the rocks. Our horses were that done we dursn't ride
'em for hours before. As we came close, out walks old Crib, and smells at us. He knew us in
a minute, and jumped up and began to try and lick Jim's hand: the old story. He just gave one
sort of sniff at me, as much as to say, 'Oh! it's you, is it?' Then he actually gave a kind
of half-bark. I don't believe he'd barked for years, such a queer noise it was. Anyhow, it
woke up dad, and he came out pretty sharp with a revolver in his hand. As soon as he saw the
old dog walking alongside of us he knew it was right, and begins to feel for his pipe. First
thing father always did as soon as any work or fighting or talking was over was to get out
his pipe and light it. He didn't seem the same man without it.

'So you've found your way back again, have ye?' he says. 'Why, I thought you was all on your
way to Californy by this time. Ain't this Christmas week? If there were more than this, where she would
equal, would have the same effect: experience shows otherwise.

In addition, we conceive extension in pure space, and yet we do not see the body. This when there
is no mobility, and space is stationary.

Does not exist when there is no capacity to produce prints, and the mere extension of space does
not have this capability.

Then the simple idea of ​​the extension does not contain, even in the state of our knowledge,
the whole idea of ​​the body. Ignore what the essence of this: but we know who enters on the idea
that it have, something more than extension.

[39.] When it is said that the body is inconceivable without extension, not to say that the
extension is the concept that constitutes the essence of the body. This essence is unknown to
us, and therefore we can not know what goes on it or not. Behold this fair sense inseparability
of the two ideas, extension and body. As we have no knowledge à priori bodies, and how much
they know, even their existence, received from sense, everything
we think or imagine about the bodies, must involve the serving as
the basis of our feelings.

This basis as we have seen above, is the extension: no she does not feel, and without therefore,
the body ceases to exist for us, or reduced to a being that does not stand out from others.

Will
clarify these ideas. If stripping the bodies of the extension, and leave you only the nature
of a being, because of the impressions I get, then this is no different for me a spirit that I
produjese the same effects. I see the paper, and gives me the impression a white surface. No
doubt God could produce in my mind the same sensation, without there being any body. So assuming
that I knew to my feeling not carries a large foreign object, and that alone is caused by something
that works on me it is clear that in my mind would be two things: 1. ª The phenomenon of sensation,
which in every case would be the same. 2. ª The idea of ​​being that occurs to me, and this idea
would have more than a being different from me, that works on me:
it would have in relation to external two ideas, distinction and causality.

Now,

to this role dispossession of the extension, what's left? Same as above. 1. º A internal phenomenon
witnessed by my conscience. 2. º The idea of ​​a cause of this phenomenon. Nothing more.

I do not know if this is still a body, but I know that the idea of ​​the body such as I am, I get
something else: I know this for me, no different from other beings, and that if his innermost
nature is something that distinguishes them, this something is unknown to me (V. cap. 1).

[40.] Here as in what direction I say the idea is for us inseparable extension of the body. But this
does not follow that these things are identified, and to deepen matter, may be found to exist
away from this identity, and body extension are two entirely different things. We have seen
that this was true by referring to the idea, which is an indication
that the same happens in reality.

[41.] Few have more clear ideas of extension geometrically considered, all attempt to explain it
is useless simply by intuition we know better than I could tell us volumes. This idea itself
is so bright that it is based on a body science, the most extensive and obvious that humanity
has: geometry. Then there are reasons to believe we know the true essence of extension, considered
in itself, because we know its necessary properties, and provided evidence that it lies our
more scientific edifice. And yet this idea is not found, or impenetrability, nor any of the properties
of the body on the contrary, we see an indifferent capacity for all of them. Conceive so easily
penetrable and impenetrable extension; empty as full, white and green with properties to be
in relationship with our bodies as without them. Extension conceive a disposition to affect
body to another, as in the pure space: in the sun that illuminates and warms the world, as in
the vague dimensions of an entirely empty vastness.

CHAPTER VII.

SPACE-NOTHING.

[42.] As explained in previous chapters may have noticed, that's ideas always mixed extension
of space, and when you want to set the real nature of that, we also offer questions about
the nature of this.

It is not possible explain any of those things, if left in the dark some of them, for the same
I shall deal at length on issues of space, so under ideal appearance as real, because only
this way we can proceed with some clarity in determining the nature of the extension.

[43.] Space: This is one of the deepest mysteries in the natural order offered the skinny man's
understanding. The more you delve into it, but it is dark: the spirit is as immersed in that
darkness that we figured out there in the vast depths of imaginary spaces. Know whether what you
experience are illusions or realities. For a moment he seems to have reached the truth, and
then discovers that it has narrowed its arms a vain shadow. Form speeches that other matters
would have to inconclusive and that are not in this, because they
are in opposition to others who also seem conclusive.

It would seem that it meets the limit to its research, has put the Creator: and that the endeavor
to pierce, fades, feels his flagging energy, your life extinguished, like all living on leaving
the element of its own.

When some philosophers are going slightly on space issues, and flattering to explain in two words,
it can be assured that either have not thought much about the difficulty that they hold, or to
meditate, they have not understood. Not proceed so, Descartes, Malebranche, Newton, and Leibniz.

Deepening
the bottomless pit is not wasting time in useless discussion, even if not be reached to find what
you are looking for, you get a very good result because touch the limits set to our spirit. It
is appropriate that we know what we can know and what is not, of this knowledge takes the philosophy
considered very high and profitable. Moreover, even with little hope of good result, it is
not possible to leave without test an idea it touches so close to the base of all our knowledge
concerning corporeal objects: the extension.

There is some reason to investigate where all philosophers have been investigated: What do
we know if long centuries of efforts to them is reserved the light, as the reward of constancy?

[44.]
What then is the space?

Is it something in reality? Is it just an idea? If an idea "Corresponds to an object in the
external world? Is it a mere illusion? The word space, is empty of meaning?

If you do not know what is the space, let us at least the sense of
the word with this Somehow we will post also in the state of the art.

By space we mean the extension imagine that placed the bodies: the ability to contain, to which
we attach no no quality of them, except the extension itself.

Assuming an airtight vessel, whose inside is empty, reduced to nothing As it is contained, and without
in any way be introduced nothing new, this cavity that capacity is, and in our understanding,
can be filled with body, that is a part of space. Imagine the world as a huge vessel in which they
are contained all the bodies: vaciémosle suddenly behold a cavity
with equal space the universe.

Let us imagine that beyond the limits of the world, there is capacity for other bodies behold
endless space or imaginary.

The space is presented at first sight, but as infinite, at least as indefinite. Because at any point
where a body placed conceive, you can also conceive move, describing
all sorts of lines taking variety of directions, and away indefinitely
the place where he was.

Next to that ability, to those dimensions, not limit them to imagine
whatsoever.

Then the space is presented as indefinite.

[45.] Will be no pure space?

Settle some that space, irrespective of any surface of bodies, and considered as a simple interval,
is pure nothing, admitting that he alone, can be tested two bodies are really distant, and
also add that even if the whole universe reduced to nothing, except
a single body, this could vary from place to move.

I think opinion holds that the contradictions that are difficult to reconcile. Who says extension-all,
it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking.

[46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be
distant. The idea of ​​distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means,
is nothing. If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty
words.

To say that nothing can own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of
being and not being at the same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge.

[47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave
standing the same difficulty. This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls
are fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same.

[48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between
the surfaces, they nevertheless left with the ability to contain,
observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same, but the
distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always
retain the same capacity, which is absurd.

We therefore advance a step: need to explain what that capacity, that distance, the question
is still intact.

[49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the
surfaces, not volume is destroyed that form, and the idea of ​​this
volume enters the building.

But I reply that the idea of ​​wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there
is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing.

[50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first
sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others. The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of
contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want. I repeat that
this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact
distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial
of contact, and be all you can be.

The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line
like a million miles. This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist.

[51.]
Far from the idea of ​​distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary,
the contact can only be explained by the distance. If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces,
as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because
there is no distance. In the idea of ​​contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses,
nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression:
contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away. Contiguity
has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial. Two things
can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between
the same points.

[52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption
that are attributed to capacity and distance.

Suppose an area of ​​two feet in diameter, entirely empty. Within that space is not over: if space
is nothing, nothing left.

I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement? It seems certain; there
is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance
to go. In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area
is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full. Neither empty nor filled
can be no movement of bodies in the interior of the sphere, and this movement is not a body
within another body, but in space: 1. º For the bodies are impenetrable: 2. No. Because when
it fills the area after having been empty, the body can not find
another body goes, and whoever comes out when the field is empty,
it moves through space it leaves, in which nothing but himself, and
nothing remains in dating him.

After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement. Now, if the content space is a pure
nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist. The movement can not exist
nor be conceived, but walking distance; this is essence, if the distance is nothing, anything goes,
then no motion. What will it mean the body has traveled half the diameter, or one foot? If this
is nothing, no mean nothing.

I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property.

[53.]
However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that
can be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant
extension. Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that
based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all knowledge:
in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties. If this proposition is not
admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle
of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that nothing
can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the idea of ​​nothing can be founded
a science as geometry, that refer to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.

CHAPTER VIII.

OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE.

[54.] If space is something, what is? Here is another very serious difficulty: to combat the
opponents have been easy to hold the position you choose, not be so. Could it be said that
space is nothing but the same extension of bodies, which conceived
abstract, which gives an idea of ​​what we call pure space, and that
the diversity of points and positions, are but modifications of the
extension?

As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies,
where there will be no blank body. He had every reason
to believe that he would have had no difficulty in arresting the famous Starlight, who, under
the cognomen of the Honourable Frank Haughton, has been for months a partner in this claim.
The shareholders were popularly known as "the three Honourables", it being rumoured that both
Mr. Clifford and Mr. Hastings were entitled to that prefix, if not to a more exalted one.

'With characteristic celerity, however, the famous outlaw had shortly before quitted the place,
having received warning and been provided with a fast horse by his singular retainer, Warrigal,
a half-caste native of the colony, who is said to be devotedly attached to him, and who has
been seen from time to time on the Turon.

'Of the Marston brothers, the elder one, Richard, would seem to have been similarly apprised,
but James Marston was arrested in his cottage in Specimen Gully. Having been lately married,
he was apparently unwilling to leave his home, and lingered too long for prudence.

'While rejoicing, as must all good citizens, at the discovery of evil-doers and the capture
of one member of a band of notorious criminals, we must state in fairness and candour that
their conduct has been, while on the field as miners, free from reproach in every way. For
James Marston, who was married but a short while since to a Melbourne young lady of high personal
attractions and the most winning amiability, great sympathy has been expressed by all classes.

So much for the "Star". Everybody is sorry for you, old man,' he says to Jim. 'I shouldn't
wonder if they'd make you a beak if you'd stayed there long enough. I'm afraid Dick's dropping
the policeman won't add to our popularity, though.'

'He's all right,' I said. 'Hurrah! look here. I'm glad I didn't finish the poor beggar. Listen
to this, from the "Turon Banner":--

                            'BUSH-RANGING REVIVED.

'The good old days have apparently not passed away for ever, when mail robberies and hand-to-hand
conflicts with armed robbers were matters of weekly occurrence. The comparative lull observable
in such exciting occurrences of late has been proved to be but the ominous hush of the elements
that precedes the tempest. Within the last few days the mining community has been startled
by the discovery of the notorious gang of bush-rangers, Starlight and the Marstons, domiciled
in the very heart of the diggings, attired as ordinary miners, and--for their own purposes
possibly--leading the laborious lives proper to the avocation. They have been fairly successful,
and as miners, it is said, have shown themselves to be manly and fair-dealing men. We are not
among those who care to judge their fellow-men harshly. It may be that they had resolved to
forsake the criminal practices which had rendered them so unhappily celebrated. James Marston
had recently married a young person of most respectable family and prepossessing appearance.
As far as may be inferred from this step and his subsequent conduct, he had cut loose from
his former habitudes. He, with his brother, Richard Marston, worked an adjoining claim to the
Arizona Sluicing Company, with the respected shareholders of which they were on terms of intimacy.
The well-known Starlight, as Mr. Frank Haughton, became partner and tent-mate with the Hon.
Mr. Clifford and Mr. Hastings, an aristocratic society in which the manners and bearing of
this extraordinary man permitted him to mingle without suspicion of detection.

'Suddenly information was furnished to the police respecting all three men. We are not at present
aware of the source from which the clue was obtained. Suffice it to say that Sir Ferdinand
Morringer promptly arranged for the simultaneous action of three parties of police with the
hope of capturing all three outlaws. But in two cases the birds were flown. Starlight's "ame
damnee", a half-caste named Warrigal, had been observed on the field the day before. By him
he was doubtless furnished with a warning, and the horse upon which he left his abode shortly
before the arrival of Sir Ferdinand. The elder Marston had also eluded the police. But James
Marston, hindered possibly by domestic ties, was captured at his cottage at Specimen Gully.
For him sympathy has been universally expressed. He is regarded rather as a victim than as
an active agent in the many criminal offences chargeable to the account of Starlight's gang.

'Since writing the above we have been informed that trooper Walsh, who with another constable
was escorting James Marston to Bargo Gaol, has been brought in badly wounded. The other trooper
reports that he was shot down and the party attacked by persons concealed in the thick timber
near Wild Horse Creek, at the edge of Bargo Brush. In the confusion that ensued the prisoner
escaped. It was at first thought that Walsh was fatally injured, but our latest report gives
good hope of his recovery.

'We shall be agreeably surprised if this be the end and not the commencement of a series of
darker tragedies.'

Chapter 33

A month's loafing in the Hollow. Nothing doing and nothing to think of except what was miserable
enough, God knows. Then things began to shape themselves, in a manner of speaking. We didn't
talk much together; but each man could see plain enough what the others was thinking of. Dad
growled out a word now and then, and Warrigal would look at us from time to time with a flash
in his hawk's eyes that we'd seen once or twice before and knew the meaning of. As for Jim,
we were bound to do something or other, if it was only to keep him from going melancholy mad.
I never seen any man changed more from what he used to be than Jim did. He that was the most
careless, happy-go-lucky chap that ever stepped, always in a good temper and full of his larks.
At the end of the hottest day in summer on the plains, with no water handy, or the middle of
the coldest winter night in an ironbark forest, and we sitting on our horses waiting for daylight,
with the rain pouring down our backs, not game to light a fire, and our hands that cold we
could hardly hold the reins, it was all one to Jim. Always jolly, always ready to make little
of it all. Always ready to laugh or chaff or go on with monkey tricks like a boy. Now it was
all the other way with him. He'd sit grizzling and smoking by himself all day long. No getting
a word out of him. The only time he seemed to brighten up was once when he got a letter from
Jeanie. He took it away into the bush and stayed hours and hours.

From never thinking about anything or caring what came uppermost, he seemed to have changed
all on the other tack and do nothing but think. I'd seen a chap in Berrima something like him
for a month or two; one day he manned the barber's razor and cut his throat. I began to be
afraid Jim would go off his head and blow his brains out with his own revolver. Starlight himself
got to be cranky and restless-like too. One night he broke out as we were standing smoking
under a tree, a mile or so from the cave--

'By all the devils, Dick, I can't stand this sort of thing much longer. We shall go mad or
drink ourselves to death'--(we'd all been pretty well 'on' the night before)--'if we stick
here till we're trapped or smoked out like a 'guana out of a tree spout. We must make a rise
somehow, and try for blue water again. I've been fighting against the notion the whole time
we've been here, but the devil and your old dad (who's a near relative, I believe) have been
too strong for us. Of course, you know what it's bound to be?'

'I suppose so. I know when dad was away last week he saw that beggar and some of his mates.
They partly made it up awhile back, but didn't fancy doing it altogether by themselves. They've
been waiting on the chance of our standing in and your taking command.'

'Of course, the old story,' he says, throwing his cigar away, and giving a half laugh--such
a laugh it was, too. 'Captain Starlight again, I suppose. The paltry vanity of leadership,
and of being in the front of my fellow-men, has been the ruin of me ever since I could recollect.
If my people had let me go into the army, as I begged and prayed of them to do, it might have
been all the other way. I recollect that day and hour when my old governor refused my boyish
petition, laughed at me--sneered at me. I took the wrong road then. I swear to you, Dick, I
never had thought of evil till that cursed day which made me reckless and indifferent to everything.
And this is the end--a wasted life, a felon's doom! Quite melodramatic, isn't it, Richard?
Well, we'll play out the last act with spirit. "Enter first robber," and so on. Good-night.'

He walked away. I never heard him say so much about himself before. It set me thinking of what
luck and chance there seemed to be in this world. How men were not let do what they knew was
best for 'em--often and often--but something seemed to drive 'em farther and farther along
the wrong road, like a lot of stray wild cattle that wants to make back to their own run, and
a dog here, a fence the other way. A man on foot or a flock of sheep always keeps frightening
'em farther and farther from the old beat till they get back into a bit of back country or
mallee scrub and stop there for good. Cattle and horses and men and women are awful like one
another in their ways, and the more you watch 'em the more it strikes you. If both parties feel, or both feel all the sound, or each a portion of
it, if you both feel completely, one is of leftovers, since not rather than try to explain
the realization of the phenomenon, already tested with another single. If each party feels, not
entirely sound, but a portion of it, we have the split tone. What is the division of a sound?

Moreover, even made the imaginary sound division, not for us to explain the phenomenon; because
the sound felt by A, it will not be felt by B, then it can never be a full feeling.

Pretend that A and B are brought into relationship, communicating each other of their share? but in this
case we have to feel all its own, and also what the community B, then What's the B if A feels
everything? Why not put all the feeling early on A? Jump to the eyes that such communication
is an absurd hypothesis, because it would result that feeling that the total would be essential parts
of the successive communication each other, and each felt the same and what send the other, forming
thus, not a single sensation but had few parts, and outputs is not a sentient being alone but
in the same number of parts.

This communication scenario is finally ended up in the admission of our system because recognizing
the need for unity to be the sensation. Why is communicated Regarding the parties would have
felt? because it could otherwise become the overall feel, and in this way would be done to get
each part of herself that had not. And to what end? so that each felt it all, then the feeling
needs to be any in a single subject, then he refuses to step the unit, it is recognized necessary.

[14.]
The parts A and B, or would be simple or not, if they were simple,
why insist on holding materialism, if the purpose was to arrive at
simple things?

To say that sensation is a effect of the organization, and yet be put in a simple, is a manifest
contradiction; simple because it can not be organized, there is no organization when no organized
party. If it is accepted to be simple, and he gets the feeling, then the organization will be, if you
will, a means, a conduit, or an indispensable condition for the realization of the phenomenon; but
it is not the subject of this, but simple. If the parties are not simple, be composed of others,
in which case you can ask of them, like the first; In the absence of simple beings to reach or come
to infinity. If you support this process, Being sensitive is not one, but infinite, and the difficulties
we had with single two parts A and B, are multiplied to infinity, resulting in each being sensitive,
not a but infinite, and every sensation is not one but infinite.

[15.] Grave difficulty arises here. If the matter is incapable of feeling, the soul of Gross is
not matter, if intangible, the spirit, which can not be accepted.

This difficulty vanishes setting well-meaning words. There is a difference be intangible spirit,
every spirit is immaterial: But not all be immaterial spirit. Heritage, means denial of matter, spirit
means something more: because that for this understand a single word being endowed with intelligence
and free will. The soul of be as intangible gross without any spirit.

Some say: it is not body is spirit, no middle ground between these two kinds of beings. Why? What
is so great cover safety? If you say that there is no middle ground between the material and
intangible, it would seem good, for indeed there is no medium between the yes and no, any thing
is or is not, but the idea of ​​spirit goes into much more than simple denial of matter; comes
the idea of ​​an active, intelligent and free.

[16.] But then, they say, what is the nature of the soul of the brute? and I ask, What is the nature
of most of the things we offer? This nature "Know themselves or their actions? Our very soul,
maybe we see intuitively? Why Ventura did not know the acts that we have consciousness? Well, in
a similar way the sensitive soul known for their acts, that is, the feeling, know that is not matter,
because the matter is incapable of feeling, and to the way of our soul we know it a simple
being, the active ingredient with intelligence and freedom, we say that the soul of brutes is
a simple being endowed with the power of feeling and instincts and appetites the sensible order.

I
do not know what this is active itself considered, but his actions
reveal him as me superior force to the bodies, as one of many activities
that give life to nature.

I find that life-giving power in a portion of matter admirably organized, and conspires to an
organization whose purpose is the harmonious exercise of the powers of this living we call animal
not knowing what that force in itself, does not prevent me to affirm its existence, and that
the phenomena revealed to me in an incontestable.

[17.] What then is the fate of these souls or those vital forces in
destroying they enliven the organization?

Is it reduced to nothing and can not be broken not consist of parts? Will they continue to exist,
waiting for their turn to chair a new organization? Here are several questions that determine
who is good to examine then separately.

If the soul of brutes has no parts, disorganization can not perish;
not disorganized which is not organized, and it is not that which
has no organized party.

From this it follows that the soul of brutes can not perish by corruption itself, for so it has
to verify all be that is not composed of matter. I do not see that under this aspect can offer
no difficulty, but the question is unresolved but its negative part, because so far we only
know that the soul of brutes is not corrupted or decomposition does not die; fáltanos know
what it is, is it overwhelms? Are you still there? and if so, in what way? These are different questions.

Above
all it should be noted here fit conjecture, rather on the possibility
of reality, philosophy can make us descry what might have, not what
is, as reality can be to us not known without experience, and that
we need in this case.

In good philosophy, when asked what is on this point, the best answer is: no I know, when asked
what could be, then enter the reasoning based on general principles, and particularly in the analogy.

[18.]
It is often said that nothing is destroyed, this proposition was necessary explanations. What
means to annihilate? cease to be, without remaining anything that had before, if disorganized
a body, no longer as an organized body, but the matter remains, there is as annihilation. Is
it true that nothing is destroyed?

According to some, one must distinguish between substances and accidents; as the latter are
a kind of incomplete beings, there is no objection to leave to be without remaining anything from
them, but that will not annihilate itself disappearance says: so we see that things are continually
transformed, ie suffering from a succession accidents, which no longer exist when the thing ceases to
be amended as respective. As to the substance, if there would cease to be true annihilation;
but this does not take place because no substance is destroyed. So some people think, I do not know
what is truth in this system because I do not know which is the solid foundation that can buttress.
If a substance for an object, in ceasing this why could not annihilate? A being raised, you need
continuity of action breeder Being conservative, thus stated that conservation is a continuous
creation and when leaving the object that is intended to raised substance, what problem will
it be annihilated? I do not see that this repugnant and to the wisdom or the goodness of God,
when an architect has an instrument to stop serve, or discard as unusable: in God this would be equivalent
to removing the conservative action, and the creature, to be reduced to nothing, if not repugnant
to the wisdom and goodness of God that an organized being is disorganized or ceases to exist
and be organized, why they hate which a substance ceases to exist when they had fulfilled the
purpose for which it was intended? this it follows that it would not be contrary to sound
philosophy to hold that the souls of brutes are reduced to nothing.

[19.] But suppose you do not want to go to annihilation, is there any problems or continue in its
existence? if any, is not reached.

What might?

I do not know, but it is permissible to surmise that absorbed back in the deep of nature would
be useless.

Nor do we know they serve many other beings, not However, neither denying its existence so, or
we question its usefulness. Who has told us the life force that resides in the rough not having
any object in destroying she encouraged the organization? The destruction of a plant "by chance
brings extinction of all vital forces in this living? and those forces, to exercise its action
about being organized is just destroyed, "left by chance to be useful in the mysterious laboratory
of nature? Who told us that a vital force can not be useful but exerted on an object of our
observation? Who told us that in the secret nature of the vital forces do not act in ways very different,
very many, and the effects of their activities do not occur in very different ways, according
to circumstances they are all in conformity to the laws established by the infinite wisdom?
The great profusion with which they are scattered seminal materials, the number of germs find
that everywhere, the immense amount of subject matter in processing and assimilation in living
the mysteries of generation in the plant and animal All this does not indicate that the universe
is shed by a number of vital forces, which operate in very different ways and on a scale of amazing
extension? Who assures us that one vital principle is unable to produce very different phenomena
according to the which is subject to conditions? which lies in the acorn is not the same as
the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes for a few centuries? If experience
not testify who would be able to suspect that the vital principle of a worm report and foul
is the same as a beautiful butterfly? See it as it is contrary neither to the reason or experience,
to suppose that the soul of brutes, that life force in them lies, whatever it is, continues to
destroy the organization after his body, and absorbed back into the treasures of nature, preserved
in them, not as a useless, but exerting its activity in different ways according to the conditions
subject to which it is [I].

CHAPTER III.

Sleep and wakefulness.

[20.] The fact the feeling is linked with others, and this link is
much of our knowledge.

It has been said tone is quite confident that it was not possible
to demonstrate feelings by the existence of bodies, because one thing
that those being purely inside, it was possible that would lead us
to infer the existence of an external one, and there was no objection
to all our feelings were a set of individual phenomena locked inside
our soul.

At first glance it seems impossible to drop the difficulty: no But if you examine it thoroughly,
they will see that you have been given more importance it deserves.

[21.] The first objection is often made against the testimony of the senses is based on difficult
to distinguish with certainty the waking state of sleep. Sleeping receive impressions similar
to those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life? The Abbe de
La-Mennais, with that exaggeration that characterizes him, has said: "Those who prove that
the whole life is a dream, a chimera indefinable would do more than
what they could all philosophers to date.

"

I think this is in serious difficulties, but I can not persuade me to be insoluble. I first of all
to examine whether sleep and wakefulness are different, not only in the eyes of sense common,
but also on the right. La-Mennais intended that only the court's consent community can achieve
a final and satisfactory, I am convinced that the reason severe cases
can reach the same result to leading us together, the inner meaning,
common sense and common consent, or in other words, the testimony
of our being and that of our peers.

[22.] The man finds itself in a completely satisfactory assurance of difference between sleep and
waking, to know that we are awake we do not need the testimony of others.

The difference between these states must be sought not only to the clarity and vividness of
feelings, and current certainty that they engender.

Undoubtedly, sometimes in the dream images presented to us as clearly as if we were awake,
and that the certainty is now complete. Who has not experienced during sleep, lively joy or
terrible anguish?

It is true that some, very rarely, disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed
the question of whether we dreamed, but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure
that the dream does not go along with this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of
our state, and the illusion that we suffer. For the ordinary, the duration of sleep, I have
no doubt about what we dream, and embracing a friend with a tender effusion, or cried uncontrollably
over his grave, under the same conditions we would produce the reality.

[23.] The difference is not in the current uncertainty, because on the contrary, usually have
complete certainty. Where is it? Indicates how the reason? How comes philosophy in support
of the internal sense and common sense? This is what we are going to examine.

Regardless of whether sensations have some relation to external objects, whether his testimony
is sufficient for this or that case, and considering them only as phenomena of our soul, there
are two completely different orders of characters acts very marked:
the sleep and wakefulness.

In the depths of our souls, these two states are entirely different: even in the idealistic system,
we must recognize this distinction.

Reflecting on what we experience from which we live, or from which! what happens within us, we can
see that there is in our being two kinds of phenomena.

A regular and steady, experienced two sets of feelings: the one most or less clear, more or
less alive, simply limited to the subject without the assistance of many of our faculties, and especially
without reflection on themselves, in pursuit are other, always clear, always alive, accompanied
by acts of all our faculties, with reflection on them, on their difference of the above, with complete
subjection to our free will in all matters relating to vary, modify, and reproduce them disappear
in a thousand different ways.

I see the paper on which I write, I reflect on this vision, and I take it off when I want and
return to have it when I like, and I link this feeling with others,
and a thousand thoughts, with a thousand fancies, if I like it.

What happens to me in this act, has ever happened to me, and goes on while I check on me this
series of events in this state I call waking; but if you dream of writing, even if it did not happen
that often, if not direct hit pen, not to see it clear, all confused, I do not feel that simultaneous
exercise of all my faculties, not reflect on the state where I am, I am with the full awareness of
what I do with that domain myself, with the clear light and lively in the waking state is
poured over all my actions and their objects. Dispierto, I think what I did, as I do, what do
I remember the dreams and qualify for illusions, and judge them as unrelated species, extravagant,
and compare them with the order and the consequence of what is being offered at the vigil.
None of this while I sleep: maybe There will be a clear feeling, living, but in a way independent
of my will; is an isolated printing is the use of a single power, without the help of others,
without fixed and constant comparisons, as I get when I'm awake, and above all this phenomenon
disappears shortly, or return to be plunged into a state that I have no conscience of me, or go
into another, which reproduces the same set of phenomena than before: clear lucid related; undergoing
the test of reason compared to each other and with the above. Then, apart from any idea of
​​the outside world, and even every other being outside ourselves, we the accuracy of the distinction
of the two orders of phenomena, we understand the words, sleep and wakefulness.

When it has tried to attack the certainty of our knowledge on the basis of the difficulty to distinguish
between these states, has seized on a futile argument, supported by a made entirely false.
So far I believe in the impossibility of distinguishing philosophically waking from sleep, rather
that I think the difference between these two states is a of the
most clear and certain of our nature.

Established this truth, and of course no doubt that the sensations experienced during sleep, are not produced
by external objects, and therefore has not ever taken the as a means of getting the truth,
let us turn to another question of greater difficulty and importance.

CHAPTER IV.

RELATIONSHIP OF AN EXTERNAL WORLD SENSATION.

[24.] Our feelings do they have any relation to external objects or phenomena are simple of our
nature? The existence of this inner world that is the set of scenes
offered by the feelings, can we infer the existence of an external
world?

This is not the practice but the theory: this question relates only to the forces of reason, not to
the voice of nature: the stronger voice than any speech, and it is impossible to resist. Whatever
the result we shall give a philosophical examination relations between the ideal and the real
world, it must submit to the need for our nature that makes us believe in the existence of
such relationships. Humanity in the vast majority of individuals, not ever thought, and probably
think, in such examination, and yet, for her, the existence of a real world, different from
us, and continuous communication with us is immune from doubt.

Nature is before that philosophy.

Do not want to indicate that the reason is powerless to express the legitimacy of the inference
It follows that the real from the ideal, or the existence of the external world of the inmate;
I intend only to draw a boundary philosophy, if not shown, at least inspire you sobriety in
their research, and mistrust in the results. And in effect, jump to the eyes must be wrong
to oppose science to contradict a necessity and a fact palpable does not deserve the name of philosophy,
which is set to fight a law that subjects his unwavering rule of humanity, even the philosopher
who dares against this law to protest. All she can say against this law will be as specious
as desired; but not more than an idle reverie, reverie that if the weakness of the understanding
bastare to undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in another life has come
to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries, and how they link those links whose contact
points can spot the reason, while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible
that link at all stages of their existence.

[25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause
other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each
other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these
two orders of phenomena present characters very different.

Now there is in me to represent the country where I was born and lived in my first years. It
clearly gives me the broad plain with its fields and meadows, with their low hills that are now isolated
mounds, now extend in several directions flattening to be confused with the level of flat or gradually
rising until joining with the branches of the mountains. I see the high mountain range that
surrounds this whole plain, and that makes it a vast basin, where no more output can be seen
by the party of the south, and the occasional crack that seems to rip into some points raised
by the great wall nature. All this represents me very well inside me, notwithstanding further
than a hundred leagues away: and I represent many times I will, and by the time I want. Perhaps
that may happen without the help of my will offer me the same show, but I'm always free to
distract me, running down the curtain so to speak, for not see that
scene as well as to rise again when I feel like to witness it.

What happens in that instance I was checked against many others, and so I experience within myself
a series of events that I represent external objects, but without
any need to force me to be subjected to them, they take them off and
reproduce with simple acts of my own free will.

At the same time I feel in me happens that another class of phenomena that are not pending my
will, I can not stir or remove when I want, but are subject to certain
conditions, of which I can not do without, on pain of not achieving
what I propose.

Now that I'm experiencing is a picture, or common language, I see a picture I have before. Let
this be a purely internal, and observe the conditions of their existence,
irrespective of any external reality, including that of my body and
the organs through which they passed me, or seem to spread the feeling.

Now

experience the feeling .... now, what has mediated? the sensation of movement, has produced another
sensation of seeing and vision that has destroyed the first, or from the ideal to the real
language, I brought her hand between his eyes and the object. How is it that while is the last sensation
I can not play the first? If there are external objects, if my feelings are produced by them,
it is clear that subject to the conditions that they impose on them: but if my sensations are
nothing more than internal events, then there is no way to explain it.
 All the night through we rode before we got
to the top of Nulla Mountain; very glad to see it we were then. We took it easy for a few miles
now and again, then we'd push on again. We felt awful sleepy at times; we'd been up and at
it since the morning before; long before daylight, too. The strangeness and the chance of being
followed kept us up, else I believe we'd have dropped off our horses' backs, regular dead beat.

We lost ground now and then through Warrigal not being there to guide us, but Jim took the
lead and he wasn't far out; besides, the horses knew which way to steer for their grass at
the Hollow. They wouldn't let us go much off the line if it was ever so dark. We gave 'em their
heads mostly. The sun was just rising as we rode across the last tableland. We got off and
stumbled along, horses and men, down the track to the Hollow. Dad and Warrigal hadn't come
back; of course they couldn't stand the pace we did. They'd have to camp for a bit, but they
both knew of plants and hiding holes, where all the police in the colony couldn't find them.
We knew they'd turn up some time next day. So we let go our horses, and after a bit of supper
laid down and slept till well on in the afternoon.

When I looked round I saw the dog sleeping at Jim's feet, old Crib. He never left father very
far, so of course the old man must be home, or pretty close up. Siguiéronse prison without halting its secretary, Fermin Aguirre, sugeto Spanish and
not of common birth, who for the ambitious fantasy of having appointed Viceroy of that province,
embraced the seditious party, and others who were decorated with several titles, to divide the
husband of the four that had been proposed rule: and exhalation as a visiting its troops commanded
all near the village, at two miles away, who managed to secure to the other accomplices of the
mob. So, afternoon were 100 inmates in the prisons of the main and most had distinguished
themselves in this conspiracy. Were taken by the commander after all precautions and Orders convenient
to make a sorpesa, and those required to resist the rebels, if they tried to invade the town, as stated,
to liberate their leaders. Placed double advanced guard, chose the church to make a last stand, ordered
rounds, appointed patrol, ordered the accuracy of the service, and increased their vigilance and
care in proportion increasing their risk. Militia called Suipacha people, who were by the King
and Tarija, reinforcing the few relics that had remained faithful, and before unfair that they
could recover the terror instilled by arms of the Sovereign, the resolution of that operation,
the unexpected imprisonment of their leaders, and of all the circumstances action as occurring
in particular, named items to avoid the damage that followed on all bounds of the province that were
moved, and that the rebels committed atrocious cruelties, forcing the inhabitants to come fugitives
Spanish, to welcome the shadow of the newly arrived troops. Diary was helpless widows and orphans
afflicted, that by abandoning their farms, and home comforts, they met in Tupiza to Commander
exposes his sufferings, with the loss of his parents, husbands and property which I had taken
the rigor of tyrants, aggressors, who egercitaron their barbarism, with more excess elsewhere in the
minerals we took, Ubinas, Tatasi, Portugalete and Great Chocalla, insulting to the priests, desecrating
the temples, and committing the most sacrilegious deaths in them, large theft, shattering the
mills, and destroying the work mine. Reseguin Oíales affably, consoled them all with tenderness,
and looking ofrecíales for them, as a parent beneficial for their children, promised to restore
them their property, and shed the last drop of blood in its defense, and for such a just cause.

The
sedition of this province had some circumstances, which is more frightening to the general that
undergoes in Peru, and could have given much care, unless it been cut so timely progress. The principal
author and head of her, Luis Laso de la Vega, was caste cholos, more Spanish than Indian,
and was serving sergeant as those militias, whom was accompanied
by a bold and some special genius that they made a distinction between
his own.

This wicked, favored by the mayor, D. Francisco Garcia de Prado, corresponded to his benefactor
with the greatest ingratitude, forging this plot, to usurp the command of the provinces of
Chichas, Lipes, Cinti and Porco, taking advantage of fermentation that had caused the edicts
and measures of main commissioners Tupac Amaru rebels, and other movements, which also forced
the mayor to collection of some ammunition, and to assemble in Tupiza militia regiment of that name, cholos
and mestizos compound, which served Laso, who was called to his ambitious and daring thoughts,
March 6, taking the spot of the journal, to touch the spirits of his fellow soldiers, who were
soon to be seduced, and shaking the reins of obedience, began dictating to them how excesses
will and suggested to the leader egemplo which followed the Indians and the village surrounding, growing
in such turmoil acceleration, which disappointed Prado of any fruit they produced their persuasion
and authority, had no recourse but to seek asylum in his house with some of their own. Besieged
in Laso it with a flood crowd, vainly tried to break his horse sometimes favorable than it
had to be on the run and run the risk that at moments grew, but their efforts were useless watching
to find out, decided to defend until ultimately favored the doors and windows of your house, from
where it started to fire at the crowd that had surrounded him, which made the same way; lasting
the confusion until midnight, when dead and some other tired and weak to continue the defense,
the rebels managed to burn down the house, and blow up the spare powder that had collected for
munitions that troop, and dropped a canvas wall penetrated to corral the Indian Nicolas Martinez,
and found her dazed in a corner mayor, approached to him and promptly beheaded him, and he drank
much of his blood. Could have been saved if undertaken in advance would escape, as well as
advising some sugetos intentioned, but it was less sensitive die than abandon their interests acquired
at the expense of general discontent, which put him in that state and situation.

After the assailant released the death of his mayor and others who accompanied him, entered
the rebels at home, inasmuch as it had been ransacked, and during the night made many excesses
and disorders in the population and its surroundings, as in the estate of Salo, where Indians
encouraged by the example of Tupiza, plotted against its owner, D. Paxsi Salvador, whom was beheaded
and captured the substantial assets she possessed: through which and others of like nature,
Laso rid of that could cause sugecion sugetos, and now free from this obstacle, he thought
only the domain to ensure that proposed. It headlined Governor and Captain General of that province
by Tupac Amaru, by issuing without loss of time, his secretary Aguirre,
circulars and announcements for all the jurisdiction in which ordered,
under the severe penalties, join him to contribute to the defense
common, shake the misrule and oppression in which the magistrates
had placed the customs, excises and other branches of finance, again
established.

The parish priest of villa, Dr. D. José Dávalos, tried to dissuade them from the principles
and quiet, using the most humble supplications and efficient trades, but did not get more than
permission to give burial to the bodies, whose diligence practiced with the greatest piety, was
not enough to contain such tensions, which lost the obedience and respect to justice, they soon
also lost in the Lord's house, entering it as a portion riotously Indians filled with rage, they
dug up the corpse of Prado, and cut off his head, took the audience de la Plata, as declared
some, or his Inca, according deposed others. The truth is, the Indian governor of the town of
Santiago de Cotagaita, who had remained loyal to the center of the rebellion, sought and gave
him burial in the church its people with all due solemnity, and turned to the Indians that led
to suffer the punishment he justly deserved such a criminal offense, but this example, neither the
repeated measures practiced by some neighbors honest, prevented all parties submit to pay obedience
to the usurper, the chiefs, governors, second and curacas, ensuring support their ideas to sacrifice
their lives and property for freedom.

Such was the state in which they were those provinces, when the commander D. José Reseguin
came to them with their small number of troops. The weight of such grave care, and the crowd
obstacles he encountered and that at times were increased, were not enough to stop him nor
to intimidate, rather, knowing how convenient it was not losing a moment in such Occasionally,
immediately gave the highest activity to the remedy of so many grown evil, constantly seeking
the most appropriate and effective remedies to prevent them. His work active, their spirit and
determination were undoubtedly the levees that held back the speed that ran the progress of
the revolt, and those who put down the voracious flames had begun to burn with too much violence, stirred
by the sweet enticing offerings that promised freedom to the edicts of Tupac-Amaru, scattered by the
commissioners in all parties, which did not fail to penetrate to the hearts of the inhabitants of
the province of Tucuman, whose natives were beginning to be available to support the troubles gladly
Tungasuca raised in Chayanta and having no qualms about publicly
expressing what a pleasure they would be the domain of an owner who
claimed freedom from oppression that were considered.

On March 18 received the first specifications of the commander D. Ignacio Flores, which communicated
the happy success which he had Punilia the attack, news of which had acquired Reseguin few
hours earlier by some voices vague, but before long the exhilaration of such disturbed important
to notice, because the same evening he learned from D. Juan Domingo de Reguera, which was presented
clerical dress, Gold fugitive wit, it was Pedro de la Cruz Condori Main Indian people Challapata
Chayanta province and Governor of the Cerrillos General entitled Tupac-Amaru, with more than
4,000 rebels who were being treated and obeyed with the greatest veneration. Representing a
lot of authority, adorned with the insignia corresponding the supposed character, speaking with
integrity, have manifested the spirit and resolution, with some ability to perform the command
obtained, and premeditated attack Tupiza to free the criminals who were imprisoned in their
jails. He added, that three Indian brothers, names, one of Tupac-Amaru, and the two remaining
Damaso and Nicolas Catari, had entered some villages, ensuring personages were pretending, and
that the natives without further examination, and obeyed blindly following them, with who had
assembled a considerable body, able to overcome the efforts of the few neighbors fair, which had been
held by the King until then in some populations, those which abandoned hastily, afraid of death
and forced the terror instilled by those tyrants everywhere, with killings, robberies and outrageous
excesses. Major Tax of this series of calamities, and it was very convenient saves in its principles,
or persuaded with the delay or increase would take more circumspection and authority the new leaders,
making every moment of greatest strength, saliesen arranged to meet him three detachments, composed
of veteran troops and militia, who arrived by different paths at once the spot where he was camped
Condori Pedro de la Cruz, he attacked the agreement and seek capture. Indeed came to his view, as
they had been prevented, and recognizing the short number of men presented to them, looked with great contempt,
and advancing with few of their own, to talk with the commander D. José Vila, Deputy Dragons
expedition, he proposed the boldest confidence to return, or is incorporated, because otherwise,
it would be a victim of the wrath of its people, it was known temerity to try otherwise the
sight of the forces that had present. Far from being intimidated this officer, whose bizarre
spirit credited after repeatedly throughout the time of the rebellion, he played was delivered,
and does not lead to that spilled the blood of those unfortunates who brought deceived. Whose
expressions, heard by one of the Indians who accompanied him, ordered the grave in action to fire
a stone at him which Alonso told by Messiah out of their own body, pulled a gun and the bullet
pierced the chest of the attacker before he had to implement its attempt begun. This unexpected
accident scared the others who accompanied Condori, and dazed undertook a hasty flight, to join
with more distant, between those who took the disorder, and inserted between all the confusion, which
usually causes the diversity of views, but did not think that the leak leaving in the hands of
his revered our general, who have been properly secured, continued to Great Chocalla in search of
three brothers who had the same fate, and sixth day departure, returned to Tupiza with all
these prisoners, full of glorious satisfaction and not a little pleased with some Spanish, because
they saw recovered much of the wealth they had usurped. He was also arrested at the same time the
deputy of that cure people, the degree D. Jose Vasquez de Velasco, owing to having been justified
accompanied to Condori in the cheers that were made of Tupac-Amaru, in the public squares
of doctrine, after having made the demonstration of blessing that rebel troops, begging favor
with the Almighty for the happiness of their weapons, and invited me to follow him to the
attack Tupiza than premeditated, contributing to the authority of his character to enact edicts
and spreading seditious letters which he used to stir the spirits, which are expressive of as follows:
-

Charter of the rebels.

Lord Chief WELL AS NATURAL SPANISH CREOLE MESTIZOS OF THE DOCTRINE OF SANTIAGO Cotagaita: -

Dear
Sirs .-- "With the greatest civility and attention which is due to humane treatment, make this
to Vds. as Governor-elect for these provinces, on behalf of MDS José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Inca
King of this vast viceroyalty of Peru, and talking to you represent in his quality of ambassador,
I say: - That the order to which I have come to this province, and I write this, is, to know the
views and opinion of their wills in case to vassalage, which taking their consent, would which
deliberated Vds. party to that lean, and I warn its opinion: that is, if up to become vassals
under the banners of the King, whose piety and clemency tends to nothing more than to the preservation,
peaceful tranquility and comfort of all civilians, natural and mixed Spanish and Creole, and
other sugetos of any quality or condition, born in our lands, taking them out of the tax and
heavy yoke until the day we have underweight had so oppressed by the tyrannical government
of Spain, with her breasts unbearable, that did not seem anything other than a total servitude slavery,
like the captivity of Babylon, where the Jewish people of God, groaned. So having seen with mature
under all these reasons, in the name of God, our Lord, and after he referred in our Monarch, Inca,
rather invite them to come to peace and harmony than to make war. But if you call and ignoring
this sweet treat, we would like Vds. surprise, then undergo rigorous
punishment that prevents our Monarch in edict, which refer rather,
to point out, that are imposed Vds. purposes as holy and righteous
intentions leading untapped at this company.

And in the course Vds. and other key individuals that make up this
body, support this party proposed to them, shall be public and convenient
places, then read on tone sides and proclamation, so that all understand
and are commonly imposed on its content.

"We also make known to DVDs, so you do not live suspicious, misleading or confusing, as in this
Tatasi doctrine or Chocalla I have in prison, to apply the death penalty to certain bandits and outlaws,
who pretending to be commissioners of our monarch, Inca, and usurping several titles poachers,
committed many crimes of treachery and murder, and dragged many Spanish and mestizo residents
of several villages, as they are, Tolapampa, Ubinas, eastern Chocalla and others only brought the
evil to steal and his inordinate greed. Contemplating Unfortunately the story that runs through
here, that in the town of Santiago are dead Governor natural to her, and do not know what Spanish
Creole, to warn those natives egecutar are contained in these deaths, without authority or reason
of having committed, that does not command our pious monarch, but only to refute the bad government
to exterminate or expulsion of European magistrates, and armed all the Indians and Spanish
Creole defend him, if by any of the ports of this kingdom come upon armed soldiers opposed, and
opposed to his crown.

"And because I trust in his Divine Majesty, who in His infinite mercy Vds. support this proposal,
I am but, to whom I pray they keep for many years. Chocalla, and March 19, 1781 .-- BLM your humble
servant of you, their good wishes. "

The Governor, D. PEDRO DE LA CRUZ CONDORI.

Edict for the Province of Chichas.

D. José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Indian real blood, and the main trunk:
- "I know to the countrymen Creole inhabitants of the province and
its vicinity Chichas that seeing the heavy yoke that oppresses us
with both breast and the tyranny of those who run for this office,
without consideration of our misfortunes, and exasperated them and
their wickedness, I have determined shake off this yoke unbearable,
and contain the evil government that experience of the leaders that
make up these bodies, for which reason the public died in the mayor
of this scaffold Ink province, to whose defense came to her in the
city of Cuzco, a portion of escutcheons dragging to my beloved natives,
who paid with their lives for their courage and daring.

I feel only the Creole countrymen, whom has been my intention to not follow them any harm,
but we live like brothers, and gathered in a body, destroying Europeans. All of which looked more
mature with the agreement, and that this claim does not preclude the most Mild to our holy Catholic
religion, but only to suppress both disorder, after having measures taken by those here who have
been conducive to the shelter, protection and conservation of the Spanish Creoles, Mestizos,
Zambos and Indians, and peace of mind, since all and fellow countrymen, as born in our lands, and
the same origin of natural and also having had all these oppressions and tyranny of the Europeans
- has been it convenient to let them know these peasants Creoles, who if they choose that opinion,
no they will damage or lives or estates, but if you disregard this my warning it do not, will experience
his undoing, turning my gentle in rage and fury, reducing the province to ashes, and as I say,
I have the strength, weight, and at my disposal these neighboring provinces in natural union between
Creoles and outside the other provinces also are my orders, and thus deemed not in short is
my warning that is born of my love and mercy, which tends to the
common good of our kingdom, as it ends to pull all Spanish countrymen
and natives of the unjust slavery that have suffered.

Looking at the same time as its main objective to stop the offenses to God Our Lord, whose
ministers, priests Lords, have the proper appreciation and veneration to their states, just as religions
and monasteries, whose pious and righteous intention with which I
come, I hope of divine mercy, as intended by it to effect me shine
and rule for a business you need all your support for your happy success.

"And

so that they have understood, fixed copies of this edict, in places
is considered appropriate in that province, where I know who follow
this advice, to reward loyalists and punish the rebels, who will know
your good, and then alegareis not ignorance.

Is all I can say. Lampa, and December 23, 1780.

"

D. Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Inca.

There was no longer in the province any leader who could provide care. The items veteran troops
that had been allowed to see throughout their jurisdiction, had filled in respect to the Indians
living in villages, and were beginning to discern some signs of submission their neighbors, because hasty
diligence Governors came to Tupiza Indians, beg pardon, expressing greater care in credit had
not come for formally revolt, which resulted in the commander, to substantiate the causes to inmates
I had learned, which was verified militarily, and justified the crimes were the last 23 major
ordeal, and the rest were condemned to prison and flogging: egecutó everything without the
slightest novelty occurred in spite of the threats had published in some papers satirical attack
that promised to liberate the town oppressors. It continued for official jealous that the more accurate
and active measures to recover stolen goods, and the Spanish who had died, and those who were
fugitives. Managed to gather more than 2,500 pesos, which returned to their owners, preceded proceedings
precise justification of legitimacy, and delivered goods to court dead, no more responsible
than to pray to keep interested parties to pay, by some days at his expense, the militias
who had enlisted with a view to saving to the exchequer this expense, he willingly agreed that,
in response to the many benefits they provided.

Alert after the establishment of the public tranquility, and considering that to get it was
necessary to ensure the apprehension of punishment entirely, which in some peoples susistia
had contributed to much of this conspiracy, I decided to publish in all churches, by their
priests, the following edict: -

D. José Reseguin, Dragrones Lieutenant Colonel, Commander in Chief of the body of this kind destined
to the square of Montevideo and commissioned by the Superior Government of Buenos Aires to the pacification
of the rebellious provinces of Peru.

"I know that having come to this town of Tupiza with a portion of people, which has arranged
to pass the city of La Plata, the Excellent. Mr D. Juan Jose de Vertiz y Salcedo, Viceroy Governor
and Captain General of the provinces of Rio de la Plata, & c., to establish the peace and quiet
of which were shaken and revolted, one of them is Tarija and Chichas,
found desirable to know the governors, priests, and other second villagers
of their jurisdiction are maintained without any novelty in their
homes, continuing the work, chores and work, what he did before the
present riots, because otherwise undergoes the most severe punishment.

It also ordered that to any individual who is present, secure and
put at my disposal, to avoid onwards, these malicious seize the opportunity
to surprise and seduce simple minds of the Indians, stealing properties,
and committing many heinous acts, worthy the greater penalty.

So let them know also that the King's troops and weapons do not come with other aim than to
dispel these troubles, punish the guilty and restore everywhere good order and administration
of justice.


After the song was over, Moran swore he'd have another one. She'd never sing for him any more,
he said, unless she took a fancy to him, and went back to the Weddin Mountains with them.

'It ain't a bad name for a mountain, is it, miss?' says he, grinning. Then, fixing his black
snake's eyes on her, he poured out about half a tumbler of brandy and drank it off.

'By gum!' he says, 'I must have a dance; blest if I don't! First chop music--good room this--three
gals and the missus--course we must. I'm regular shook on the polka. You play us a good 'un,
Polly, or whatever yer name is. Dan Moran's goin' to enjoy himself this night if he never sees
another. Come on, Burke. Patsey, stand up, yer blamed fool. Here goes for my partner.'

'Come, Moran,' says Burke, 'none of your larks; we're very jolly, and the young ladies ain't
on for a hop; are ye, miss?' and he looked over at the youngest Miss Whitman, who stared at
him for a moment, and then hid her face in her hands.

'Are you a-goin' to play as I told yer?' says Moran. 'D'ye think yer know when yer well off?'

The tone of voice he said this in and the look seemed to frighten the poor girl so that she
started an old-style polka there and then, which made him bang his heels on the floor and spin
round as if he'd been at a dance-house. As soon as he'd done two or three turns he walks over
to the sofa and sits down close to Miss Falkland, and put his arm round her waist.

'Come, Fanny Falkland,' says he, 'or whatever they call yer; you're so dashed proud yer won't
speak to a bush cove at all. You can go home by'n by, and tell your father that you had a twirl-round
with Dan Moran, and helped to make the evening pass pleasant at Darjallook afore it was burned.'

Anything like the disgust, misery, and rage mixed up that came into Miss Falkland's face all
in a moment and together-like, I never saw. She made no sound, but her face grew paler and
paler; she turned white to the lips, as trembled and worked in spite of her. She struggled
fierce and wild for nigh a solid minute to clear herself from him, while her beautiful eyes
moved about like I've seen a wild animal's caught in a trap. Then, when she felt her strength
wasn't no account against his, she gave one piercing, terrible scream, so long and unnatural-like
in the tone of it that it curdled my very blood.

I lifted up the window-sash quick, and jumped in; but before I made two steps Jim sprang past
me, and raised his pistol.

'Drop her!' he shouts to Moran; 'you hound! Leave go Miss Falkland, or by the living God I'll
blow your head off, Dan Moran, before you can lift your hand! How dare you touch her, you cowardly
dog!'

Moran was that stunned at seeing us show up so sudden that he was a good bit took off his guard,
cool card as he was in a general way. Besides, he'd left his revolver on the piano close by
the arm-chair, where his grog was. Burke and Daly were no better off. They found Starlight
and Warrigal covering them with their pistols, so that they'd have been shot down before they
could so much as reach for their tools.

But Jim couldn't wait; and just as Moran was rising on his feet, feeling for the revolver that
wasn't in his belt (and that I never heard of his being without but that once), he jumps at
him like a wallaroo, and, catching him by the collar and waist-belt, lifts him clean off his
feet as if he'd been a child, and brings him agen the corner of the wall with all his full
strength. I thought his brains was knocked out, dashed if I didn't. I heard Moran's head sound
against the stone wall with a dull sort of thud; and on the floor he drops like a dead man--never
made a kick. By George! we all thought he had killed him.

'Stash that, now,' says Burke; 'don't touch him again, Jim Marston. He's got as much as 'll
do him for a bit; and I don't say it don't serve him right. I don't hold with being rough to
women. It ain't manly, and we've got wives and kids of our own.'

'Then why the devil didn't you stop it?' says Starlight. 'You deserve the same sauce, you and
Daly, for sitting there like a couple of children, and letting that ruffian torment these helpless
ladies. If you fellows go on sticking up on your own account, and I hear a whisper of your
behaving yourselves like brutes, I'll turn policeman myself for the pleasure of running you
in. Now, mind that, you and Daly too. Where's Wall and Hulbert?'

'They went to yard the horses.'

'That's fair game, and all in the day's work. I don't care what you take or whom you shoot
for that matter, as long as it's all in fair fight; but I'll have none of this sort of work
if I'm to be captain, and you're all sworn to obey me, mind that. I'll have to shoot a man
yet, I see, as I've done before now, before I can get attended to. That brute's coming to.
Lift him up, and clear out of this place as soon as you can. I'll wait behind.'

They blundered out, taking Moran with them, who seemed quite stupid like, and staggered as
he walked. He wasn't himself for a week after, and longer too, and threatened a bit, but he
soon saw he'd no show, as all the fellows, even to his own mates, told him he deserved all he got.

Old Jim stood up by the fireplace after that, never stirring nor speaking, with his eyes fixed
on Miss Falkland, who had got back her colour, and though she panted a bit and looked raised
like, she wasn't much different from what we'd seen her before at the old place. The two Misses
Whitman, poor girls, were standing up with their arms round one another's necks, and the tears
running down their faces like rain. Mrs. Whitman was lying back in her chair with her hands
over her face cryin' to herself quiet and easy, and wringing her hands.

Then Starlight moved forward and bowed to the ladies as if he was just coming into a ballroom,
like I saw him once at a swell ball they gave for the hospital at Turon.

'Permit me to apologise, Mrs. Whitman, and to you, my dear young ladies, for the rudeness of
one of my men, whom I unhappily was not able to restrain. I have had the pleasure of meeting
Mr. Whitman, and I hope you will express my regret that I was not in time to save you from
the great annoyance to which you have been subjected.'

'Oh! I shall be grateful all my life to you, and so, I'm sure, will Mr. Whitman, when he returns;
and oh! Sir Ferdinand, if you and these two good young men, who, I suppose, are policemen in
plain clothes, had not come in, goodness only knows what would have become of us.'

'I am afraid you are labouring under some mistake, my dear madam. I have not the honour to
be Sir Ferdinand Morringer or any other baronet at present; but I assure you I feel the compliment
intensely. I am sure my good friends here, James and Richard Marston, do equally.'

Here the Misses Whitman, in spite of all their terror and anxiety, were so tickled by the idea
of their mother mistaking Starlight and the Marstons for Sir Ferdinand and his troopers that
they began to laugh, not but what they were sober enough in another minute.

Miss Falkland got up then and walked forward, looking just the way her father used to do. She
spoke to Starlight first.

'I have never seen you before, but I have often heard of you, Captain Starlight, if you will
allow me to address you by that title. Believe me when I say that by your conduct to-night
you have won our deepest gratitude--more than that, our respect and regard. Whatever may be
your future career, whatever the fate that your wild life may end in, always believe there
are those who will think of you, pray for you, rejoice in your escapes, and sorrow sincerely
for your doom. I can answer for myself, and I am sure for my cousins also.'

Here the Misses Whitman said--

'Yes, indeed, we will--to our life's end.'

Then she turned to Jim, who still stood there looking at her with his big gray eyes, that had
got ever so much darker lately.

'You, poor old Jim,' she said, and she took hold of his brown hand and held it in her own,
'I am more sorry than I can tell to hear all I have done about you and Dick too. This is the
second time you have saved me, and I am not the girl to forget it, if I could only show my
gratitude. Is there any way?'

'There's Jeanie,' just them two words he said.

'Your wife? Oh yes, I heard about her,' looking at him so kind and gentle-like. 'I saw it all
in the papers. She's in Melbourne, isn't she? What is her address?'

'Esplanade Hotel, St. Kilda,' says Jim, taking a small bit of a letter out of his pocket.

'Very well, Jim, I have a friend who lives near it. She will find her out, and do all for her
that can be done. But why don't you--why don't all of you contrive to get away somehow from
this hateful life, and not bring ruin and destruction on the heads of all who love you? Say
you will try for their sake--for my sake.'

'It's too late, Miss Falkland,' I said. 'We're all thankful to you for the way you've spoken.
Jim and I would be proud to shed our blood for you any time, or Mr. Falkland either. We'll
do what we can, but we'll have to fight it out to the end now, and take our chance of the bullet
coming before the rope. Good-night, Miss Falkland, and good luck to you always.'

She shook hands heartily with me and Jim, but when she came to Starlight he raised her hand
quite respectful like and just touched it with his lips. Then he bowed low to them all and
walked slowly out.

When we got to the public-house, which wasn't far off, we found that Moran and the other two
had stayed there a bit till Wall and Hulbert came; then they had a drink all round and rode
away. The publican said Moran was in an awful temper, and he was afraid he'd have shot somebody
before the others got him started and clear of the place.

'It's a mercy you went over, Captain,' says he; 'there'd have been the devil to pay else. He
swore he'd burn the place down before he went from here.'

'He'll get caught one of these fine days,' says Starlight. 'There's more risk at one station
than half-a-dozen road scrimmages, and that he'll find, clever as he thinks himself.'

'Where's Mr. Whitman, Jack?' says I to the landlord (he wasn't a bad sort, old Jack Jones).
'What made him leave his place to the mercy of the world, in a manner of speaking?'

'Well, it was this way. He heard that all the shepherds at the lower station had cut it to
the diggings, ye see; so he thought he'd make a dart up to the Castlereagh and rig'late the
place a bit. And is not that good philosophy confuse effects causes, but
not knowing anything but the physical phenomenon, one can stick to it: limited by what touches
to the cause, to the abstract idea of ​​causality, which offers nothing in particular, and therefore
does not enter into combination in their scientific work. Newton was immortalized with his system
of universal attraction, and yet begins confess his ignorance about the cause of the effect
that slogan. When you exit the phenomena and the calculation to which they give rise, it enters
the realm of metaphysics.

[21.] The natural sciences appreciated qualities of bodies that have nothing to do with extension,
such as heat and the like, what appears scuttle said about the extension. However, this difficulty
vanishes as specious consideration the way in which science measures these qualities, and the
final result, far from ruining the I've set, it consolidates, extends
and clarifies.

How can see the heat? Why relation to the feeling that causes us? in any way. Al enter a very
hot piece live experience a sensation of heat, Soon it disappears
to continuing the same temperature.

Shaking the hand of another, We find more or less hot or cold, as we have ours.

Heat and cold are measured, not themselves, nor with respect to our feelings, but the effect
produced, and this leaves no changes to the extension.

The thermometer we determine the temperature the greater or less elevation of mercury in one
line. Its Grades are expressed in parts of the line marked on it.

I know that what we try to see is something different from the extension, but the truth is that
can only be achieved by referring to it, sticking to effects which are modifications thereof.
Thus, the degree of heat that results in the boiling water, it is appreciated Reaumur thermometer
in the grade 80, and with the naked eye know this degree the agitation
of the water, that is, by motion, also related to the extension.

At the same reduces the rarefaction and condensation of bodies, it is only occupy more or less space,
have greater or smaller, and therefore greater or lesser extent.

[22.] In the light and colors we know nothing scientifically, but regard to the different directions and
combinations of light rays, since in arriving at the same sensation of this or that kind, and we
limit ourselves to feel, do not know what else but sorry. Combining different modes of light rays and
directing them as appropriate, we know we can change our feeling,
but here it no more than knowledge Scientific extension in the middle
of which we use, and consequently experienced feeling him.

Everything else is completely unknown to us.

[23.] The same could apply to all other sensations, including touch. What is what surnamed
hardness of a body? This resistance we feel when we play. Well, if we ignore the feeling that
in itself offers us nothing but the awareness herself, what do we find? impenetrability. What
is meant by impenetrability? The inability to occupy two bodies at the same moment the same
space. We are already with the extension. If we understand the cohesion strength of the molecules,
what is the cohesion? In the juxtaposition of the parties in such a way that can not be separate
but very hard. And what is it separate?

It is going to occupy a different place than it occupies. Hay again here as the ideas of extension.

The
same sound, scientifically we know nothing but respect to extension and movement. It is known that
the musical scale is expressed by a series of numbers representing
fractional air vibrations.

[25.] Similarly the fourth proposition is demonstrated, namely, that lacking the idea of ​​extension,
lack of any idea of ​​corporeal thing, as we ran out of fixed of any kind with respect to the
phenomena that walk entirely blind. Just do the test to be convinced of this. Dispense for a
moment the idea of ​​extension, and notice that it is impossible
to take a step.

The examples given in the preceding paragraphs to test the second proposition, other explanations
are useless.

[26.] The extension, though essentially composed of parts, has, however, something fixed, unchanged,
and somewhat simple. There are more or less extensive but not different species it. A straight line
is more or less long than the other, but not long in different ways.

A flat surface will be greater or less than another, but not differently. A volume of a particular class
will be greater or less than another of the same species, but not differences way.

When we say that the idea of ​​the extension taken objectively, there is some sort of simplicity,
not meant to be a simple thing entirely, because that adds to its object is essentially composed,
nor is it to disregard the essential elements complete, which are the three dimensions, or another
idea that also engages in it, that is, their ability to be limited
in several ways, or its limited, only about to note that all figures
are enough differences in these fundamentals, which in itself is never
changed, they always offer to our understanding the same thing.

Compare a line with a curve. The line is an address constant. The curve is one direction always
varied. What is an address provided varied? a set of directions straight infinitely small. Thus
the circle is considered as a polygon infinite sides. Then, with the single variety of directions,
reduced to infinitesimal values, curve is formed.

This theory explains the difference of right to the curved, it is obviously applicable to surfaces
and volumes.

Compare a ring with a pentagon: What's in the second that is not the first? one hand but on
the perimeter and in the area, the space formed by the triangle by diagonal shot from an angle
to another immediately. But the lines are of different species one
and another?

Are the surfaces themselves are distinguished, but by being terminated from differently? Not. What is
the termination? Not the same limitation?

Then the essential extension of the idea, namely, direction and boundaries,
always remain unchanged.

This intrinsic fixity is indispensable to science: the mutable, may be subject to perception, but
not of scientific perception.

CHAPTER IV.

FACT OF THE EXTENSION.

[27.] Let us go on other issues more difficult. Does the extension itself, regardless the idea is
something? if anything, what is it? Do you identify with the body? Is your essence? Is it the same
as the space?

I have shown (Lib. II. Cap. IX.) Extension that exists outside of us: it is not a pure illusion
of our senses, and is therefore resolved the first question: namely, if the extension is something.

Whatever
its nature, whatever it is our ignorance on this point, is in reality something that corresponds
to our idea of ​​extension.

Whoever denies this truth, need to be resigned to deny everything, except the consciousness
of itself, if also do not try to raise doubts about it. Say what you idealists, there is not,
nor has there been no sane man who has seriously doubted the existence of an external world: This
conviction is a necessity for man, against whom forcejaria in vain.

The outside world is to us inseparable from what it represents to us the idea of ​​extension: or
does not exist or is extensive. If we are persuaded that he is not extensive, it is not difficult to
convince that does not exist. For my part, find much difficulty in conceiving the world without
extension and without life: when he believed that his extension is a pure illusion, would think no
work nor is more than illusion its very existence.

[28.] And it is noteworthy that although there is no difficulty in granting that ignore the
nature close of the extension, however it must be acknowledged as we know it something: ie dimensions,
and serves as a basis for geometry. For so the difficulty is not to know what the extension is
considered geometrically, but what is in reality. The geometric essence we know it: but we
need to know if this same essence done is something else to be confused with real, or if a property
is only known to us, know without being to which it belongs. Without this distinction, we would
deny the basis of geometry it is evident that if we knew the essence of the extension as aforesaid,
no sure whether we would build it on the air, when we raise the idea of ​​extension whole science
of geometry.

[29.] Thus, under this aspect, we are also confident that the extension exists outside of us who are
true dimensions. This idea comes from the world's need external as we said above, and the dimensions
on the outside, must be subject to the same principles that we think, otherwise subverted the very
idea that we formed the external world, and I mean not a real circle can be a circle geometry,
but that he has verified that this, in proportion to the increased or less accurately with
ever built, and that beyond the scope of the instruments most perfect
and delicate, I can imagine in the very reality of things a circle
or other As figure that approaches the idea you want to geometric.

The finest art not point never an indivisible point, and draw a line without any latitude but
on the same surface where the trace is infinite divisibility, to my mind can conceive it one case,
in which reality is infinitely close to the geometric idea.

[30.] La astronomy and physical sciences all lie on the assumption that the extension real,
is subject to the same principles as the ideal, and that experience
is so close more to the theory, the more accurately fulfilled in the
first conditions of the second.

The art of constructing the mathematical tools, today led to a perfection
amazing, look also the ideal order, as the real rate, and progress
in this, is the approximation to the models offered him.

The theory directs the operations of the practice, and these in turn confirms the result expected
from theory. Then the extension exists not only in the ideal order, but also in real, then the
extension is something, regardless of our ideas, then geometry, the vast representation of a
world of lines and figures, has a real object in nature.

How come the correspondence of the real and ideal? This will examine the next chapter.

CHAPTER V.

GEOMETRIC ACCURACY IN NATURE MADE.

[31.] The disagreement we noticed between the phenomena and geometrical theories, leads us to
believe that reality is rude, and that the purity and accuracy are only in our ideas. This is a
mistaken view that comes from lack of meditation. The reality is so geometric and our ideas
of geometry there is performed, in all its purity, in all its rigor in all its accuracy. No
wonder the reader of this paradox: either soon convinced that this paradox is a proposition very
rational, very real, very well founded.

Above all it should prove that the ideas which are the elements of geometry, have actually existing
objects, subject to the same conditions as these, without any difference. If we show this
can easily infer the geometry in all its rigor, there is not only in the order of ideas, but also
in the facts.

[32.] Let's start point. In the ideal order, the point is an indivisible thing, limit line, a generator
of it, and it occupies a particular place in space.

Limit line, because irrespective of any length, we reached the point, who, to avoid we fade
completely or reduce us to a pure nothing, losing the understanding every object, we need to consider
it as a term of the line which is, as shortens, it is about continuous,
but may not ever come to him, while conserving length.

Generator of the line for when we want to form an idea of ​​dimension linear, we consider the
point in motion. The occupation of particular place in space is another essential condition for
the idea of ​​the point, whether to serve in geometric figures. The center of the circle is a
point: in itself is indivisible, does not fill any space, but if it is to serve as a center,
it is necessary that we refer to all radios, to this needs to occupy a specific position, equidistant
from the points of the circle. In general, the geometry required dimensions, and these are necessary
starting points, through which pass, in ending, and with respect
to which measure the distances, inclinations and all that relates
to the position of lines and planes, none of this could be conceived
if the point, but unextended, unoccupied in space a particular location.

[33.]

Is there something in nature that corresponds to the geometric point, which satisfies all conditions
as accurately as you can desire of science in its purest idealism? I yes.

In considering the arcane philosophers divisibility of matter, have adopted different opinions. One states
that there unextended points where the division is completed, and that all compounds are formed.
The other says that it is impossible to reach items simple, but the
division can be carried to infinity, moving continuously the limit
of composition, which however can not be achieved.

The first of these views an admission made geometric points, the second, but does not seem so favorable
to this realization, is to stop it.

Unextended molecules are the geometric point made, in all its accuracy. Are limit the dimension,
for in them end the division, are a generator of the dimension, They therefore that the extension
form, occupying a particular place in space, for which of these bodies
form with all its determinations in the same space.

Then, sticking to this opinion, professed by such eminent philosophers such as Leibnitz and Boscowich,
it appears that the geometric point exists in nature with all the accuracy of a scientific nature.

The
opinion that denies the existence of unextended points, admits, however, and must support by
necessity, to the infinite divisibility. The length is over, then there is the division between them,
these sides at the same time, or are extended or unextended, if unextended, is needed to course
and support the opinion of unextended points, if extensive, are susceptible to division, and
thus it is necessary or become indivisible points or continue the division until the infinity.

He
noted that this opinion, although clearly not as favorable as the
other, to the existence actual geometric points, finally coming to
recognize this accomplishment.

The parties that divide the compound is not made with pre-existing division but to the division,
for that this is possible is necessary that the parties exist, they exist, not because they can
divide, but you can split them because they exist. This opinion is therefore not explicitly
supported existence of unextended points, but admits he can walk all over them forever, not
only in the ideal order but also in real, for the divisibility no
claims of ideas, but of matter itself.

Congratulations to our experience have a limit on the division, but the divisibility itself
is not a being endowed with more resources than we could bring more division there, on this
scale there are no limits, then as a last resort where we are with God infinite power division
can lead to infinity, as seen in Infinite Intelligence an instant all those parts that would
make the division.

Now, regardless of the difficulties that are subject to an opinion which seems to assume the existence
of that which refuses, ask if all the geometric accuracy may require more rigorously than is
in the points which would come to the almighty infinite consider
exercising divider action for all eternity, or in other terms, parts
seen by the infinite intelligence in an infinitely divisible.

This does not only satisfies our imagination and our ideas with regard to accuracy, but seems
to go beyond what they achieved. Experience teaches us that to imagine a point unextended it
is impossible: and to think in purely intellectual, is no more than conceive the possibility of
the infinite divisibility suddenly placed in the final analysis: certainly end is still far from
that in which the set, not the abstraction, but the vision of infinite
intelligence.

If there is a geometric point, there is a geometric line, which is no more than a series of
unextended points, or if we are not recognizing this quality, a series of extremes to which
the division is about continuing to infinity.

The set of geometric lines form surfaces, that of these the solid line being found, and in nature and
in its formation, the real order of the ideal.

[34.] This theory of geometry made, embraces all the sciences that aim to nature. When one says
for example that the reality does not correspond exactly to the theories of mechanics, it comes with
a lot of impropriety: it should say rather that it is not reality that fails, but the means
to experience, what is attributed to the fact should be attributed to the limitation of our
experience.

The center of gravity on a body is the point at which converge all
the forces of gravitation found in the same body.

The mechanics of this point is indivisible, and under to such a case, establishes and proves
his theorems and poses and solves their problems. Here the mechanical stops and starts the driver,
which in practice can not ever find that rigorous center of gravity, of course in theory. Discuerdan
operations of principles; and it is necessary to correct them away
from what these prescribed. Why? Is that the nature there is no center
of gravity with all the accuracy that science is? not; center exists,
it is not he missing, but the means to find him. Nature is so there
like science, neither left behind: what can not follow them are our
media experience.

The mechanic determined that indivisible point
is the center of gravity, assuming surface without thickness, lines
without breadth, and length divided into a designated point in space,
but without any extension. A satisfies these conditions dutifully
nature: point exists, and not really to blame for the limitation of
our experience. 'Come on, Dick. I never thought poor old dad
would be run down like this.'

'Or he's got them!' says Starlight, curling his lip in a way he had. 'I don't believe your
old governor's dead till I see him. The devil himself couldn't grab him on his own ground.'

Chapter 38

We all pulled up at the side of the gully or dry creek, whatever it was, and jumped off our
horses, leaving Warrigal to look after them, and ran down the rocky sides of it.

'Great God!' Starlight cries out, 'what's that?' and he pointed to a small sloping bit of grass
just underneath the bank. 'Who are they? Can they be asleep?'

They were asleep, never to wake. As we stood side by side by the dead men, for there were four
of them, we shook so, Jim and I, that we leaned against one another for support. We had never
seen a sight before that like it. I never want to do so again.

There they lay, four dead men. We didn't know them ourselves, but guessed they were Hagan and
his lot. How else did they come there? and how could dad have shot them all by himself, and
laid them out there? Were Daly and Moran with him? This looked like Moran's damnable work.

We looked and looked. I rubbed my eyes. Could it be real? The sky was dark, and the daylight
going fast. The mountain hung over us black and dreadful-looking. The wind whimpered up and
down the hillside with a sort of cry in it. Everything was dark and dismal and almost unnatural-looking.

All four men were lying on their backs side by side, with their eyes staring up to the sky--staring--staring!
When we got close beside them we could see they had all been shot--one man through the head,
the rest through the body. The two nearest to me had had their hands tied; the bit of rope
was lying by one and his wrist was chafed.

One had been so close to the man that shot him that the powder had burnt his shirt. It wasn't
for anything they had either, for every man's notes (and one had four fives and some ones)
were pinned to them outside of their pockets, as if to show every one that those who killed
them wanted their blood and not their money.

'This is a terrible affair, boys,' said Starlight; and his voice sounded strange and hoarse.
'I never thought we should be mixed up with a deed like this. I see how it was done. They have
been led into a trap. Your father has made 'em think they could catch him; and had Daly and
Moran waiting for them--one on each side of this hole here. Warrigal'--for he had tied up his
horse and crept up--'how many bin here?'

Warrigal held up three fingers.

'That one ran down here--one after one. I see 'em boot. Moran stand here. Patsey Daly lie down
behind that ole log. All about boot-nail mark. Old man Ben he stand here. Dog bite'm this one.'

Here he stooped and touched a dead man's ankle. Sure enough there was the mark of Crib's teeth,
with the front one missing, that had been kicked down his throat by a wild mare.

'Two fellow tumble down fust-like; then two fellow bimeby. One--two--three fellow track go
along a flat that way. Then that one get two horses and ridem likit Fish River. Penty blood
tumble down here.'

This was the ciphering up of the whole thing. It was clear enough now. Moran and Daly had waited
for them here, and had shot down the two first men. Of the others, it was hard to say whether
they died in fair fight or had been taken prisoners and shot afterwards. Either way it was
bad enough. What a noise it would make! The idea of four men, well known to the Government,
and engaged in hunting down outlaws on whose head a price was set, to be deliberately shot--murdered
in cold blood, as there was some ground for thinking to be the case. What would be the end
of it all?

We had done things that were bad enough, but a deliberate, cold-blooded, shameful piece of
bloodshed like this had never been heard of in New South Wales before.

There was nothing more to be done. We couldn't stay any longer looking at the dead men; it
was no use burying them, even if we'd had the time. We hadn't done it, though we should be
sure to be mixed up with it somehow.

'We must be moving, lads,' said Starlight. And next to the shoe and the bazaar could be seen revoked
and the beautiful façade of the house, situated in the central and widest street in town. Behind
this house and in uninterrupted succession, had patios, yards, stables, tinados, warehouses,
barns, press, oil mill, and in short, everything that can hold and has a wealthy farmer and
owner of Andalusia. The back door that gave entrance these barns, one could say that was outside
the walls of the village, if people have walls, while the main door, as stated above was at the
center.

The teacher Raymond never wanted to commit or be mixed in politics, but suddenly had to change.
He had done fusion and had agreed to be head of that party Villalegre
politician and mayor.

He was a widower, was already fifteen years. And it was about seven he had his only son, D. Raimundo
Roldán Chain, studying or walking and idling in Madrid, then on this point differ not a little the
authors. Also differ about the cause of the long and uninterrupted absence the child, attributing
one happier than widowhood Recollect father, for which there embarrassment or scandal was the
presence of the child, and others attributing it to indifference and arrogance the latter, who lived
in Madrid as elegant and illustrious gentleman, who spoke of his
house manor, and repelled back to the place to see the plebeian coarseness
of his father and the early fundamental and shoe tenaciously preserved.

Since

this was, D. Raymond was given in Madrid tone very noble, and gentle presence, his sartorial
elegance and used to spend the money due, paid to nobility no credit short.


'By gum! he's been hit bad enough,' says Jim. 'Look here, and here, poor old dad!'

'There's not much "poor" about it, Jim,' says Starlight. 'Men that play at bowls must expect
to get rubbers. They've come off second best in this row, and I wish it had been different,
for several reasons.'

Dad was hit right through the top of the left shoulder. The ball had gone through the muscle
and lodged somewhere. We couldn't see anything of it. Another bullet had gone right through
him, as far as we could make out, under the breast on the right-hand side.

'That looks like a good-bye shot,' says Starlight; 'see how the blood comes welling out still;
but it hasn't touched the lungs. There's no blood on his lips, and his breathing is all right.
What's this? Only through the muscle of the right arm. That's nothing; and this graze on the
ribs, a mere scratch. Dash more water in his face, Jim. He's coming to.'

After a few minutes he did come to, sure enough, and looked round when he found himself in bed.

'Where am I?' says he.

'You're at home,' I said, 'in the Hollow.'

'Dashed if I ever thought I'd get here,' he says. 'I was that bad I nearly tumbled off the
old mare miles away. She must have carried me in while I was unsensible. I don't remember nothing
after we began to get down the track into the Hollow. Where is she?'

'Oh! we found her near the cave, with the saddle and bridle on.'

'That's all right. Bring me a taste of grog, will ye; I'm a'most dead with thirst. Where did
I come from last, I wonder? Oh, I seem to know now. Settling accounts with that----dog that
insulted my gal. Moran got square with t'other. That'll learn 'em to leave old Ben Marston
alone when he's not meddling with them.'

'Never mind talking about that now,' I said. 'You had a near shave of it, and it will take
you all your time to pull through now.'

'I wasn't hit bad till just as I was going to drop down into Black Gully,' he said. 'I stood
one minute, and that cursed wretch Hagan had a steady shot at me. I had one at him afterwards,
though, with his hands tied, too.'

'God forgive you!' says Jim, 'for shooting men in cold blood. I couldn't do it for all the
gold in Turon, nor for no other reason. It'll bring us bad luck, too; see if it don't.'

'You're too soft, Jim,' says the old man. 'You ain't a bad chap; but any young fellow of ten
years old can buy and sell you. Where's that brandy and water?'

'Here it is,' says Jim; 'and then you lie down and take a sleep. Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or
Christians who had married with their Wives, or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha,
or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and
then were burned alive over a slow fire, all prisoners, with qual it built the family remained
very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the
quale sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy all
the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there. Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:?
But that sin? Speak without rezelo. For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of
the pious inquisitor gave me some light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not
convicted of more than Exercises, discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on
to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her
party. Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop of Chiapas,
where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert them
to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half of the
victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the
island where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray
to the Virgin Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian.
iQue honest people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable
enemies in Constantinople, and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the
street, and that separate suits their masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek
Patriarch, who had accused me of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the
divan a hundred sticks on the soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins. Hanged
the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there a month,
I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in the sad
precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful Circassian,
who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the mosque.
One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are the sacramental
words of the Turks; I thought you were the love, And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.
Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood, a man
of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a thousand
sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and I
found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom
I left paying a lot of sequins, not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where could
live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a
faithless infidels and soul. There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy,
the Jesuits The Chinese wanted to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans
it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told
him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope. Commission gave the supreme council a first
mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff, who had at his command four brackets, which
seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme, after hundred and forty prostrations, before
His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope and if it was true that the prince had to
come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope was a clergyman of more than seventy years,
that his statements were far more than four thousand miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China,
that his army was two thousand soldiers standing guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned,
and I could sleep without His Majesty fear. This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as
did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this
monarch in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous
ceremony that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom
which had swept the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all
the filth of the soul. It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan
religious whole, since it had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and
had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything,
and nobody talked about anything but his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as
it was not that of the sacred majesty of the Most Serene Emperor
Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas heads cut every Friday, after
to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to adjudicate
between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who locked, lacking
the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence in Europe had
very principles governing sovereign rightly his states, and also frequeentaban churches, without taking
life so their parents and siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter realized
expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him on other occasions I had happened, send saddle
camels, and went with the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great
Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter, was this executed in the
main square, without flattery confessed all that was very fair palace
his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them for violating the laws
of nations. He was answered by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth,
and our wool curl, your skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct
laws of nature, we must always be enemies. At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack
animals, to force us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos haceis
we pierce the mountains to get a kind of yellow powder that nothing is good, and that's no good,
or very, a chive Egypt. Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land,
and if not you cut the noses and ears.

There was replicated as discrete reasoning. I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears
and my nose, and after a year I rescued. Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable
in the earth, I determined to see no more than my household gods:
I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most
pleasant condition of human life.

       

End of the voyages of castigating.

       

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four
thousand five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen, and
calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully
twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more
common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating
in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant
from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and some
have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the
Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking
the years, fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical.

Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects a very small
insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding regular,
and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises. The mufti
of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious, ill-sounding,
rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to see if the substantial
form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose
salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two hundred and twenty years which had lasted
the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read, and
was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet
to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking
in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of
mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces
attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that
now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went
he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch.

Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that
is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham,
curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to
prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that
has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was
in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see new
things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized
that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous,
since there from six thousand feet height.

Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became
a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of
great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely
gave account of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets
girls and big load.

I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation
very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER
II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

She'd dressed herself up that afternoon just a little bit more than common, poor thing, and
put a bit of pink ribbon on and trimmed up her hat, and looked as if she began to see a little
more interest in things. It didn't take much to make her look nice, particularly on horseback.
Her habit fitted her out and out, and she had the sort of figure that, when a girl can ride
well, and you see her swaying, graceful and easy-like, to every motion of a spirited horse,
makes you think her handsomer than any woman can look on the ground. We rode pretty fast always,
and it brought a bit of colour to her face. The old horse got pulling and prancing a bit, though
he was that fine-tempered he'd carry a child almost, and Jim and I thought we hadn't seen her
look like herself before this for years past.

It was a beautiful warm evening, though summer was over, and we were getting into the cold
nights and sharp mornings again, just before the regular winter weather. There was going to
be a change, and there were a few clouds coming up from the north-west; but for all that it
had been quite like a spring day. The turf on all the flats in the Hollow was splendid and
sound. The grass had never been cut up with too heavy stocking (which ruins half the country,
I believe), and there was a good thick undergrowth underneath. We had two or three little creeks
to cross, and they were pretty full, except at the crossing places, and rippled over the stones
and sparkled in the sun like the brooks we'd heard tell of in the old country. Everything was
so quiet, and bright and happy-looking, that we could hardly fancy we were the men we were;
and that all this wild work had been going on outside of the valley that looked so peaceful
and innocent.

There was Starlight riding alongside of Aileen on his second-best horse, and he was no commoner
either (though he didn't come up to Rainbow, nor no other horse I ever saw), talking away in
his pleasant, easy-going way. You'd think he hadn't got a thing to trouble him in the world.
She, for a wonder, was smiling, and seemed to be enjoying herself for once in a way, with the
old horse arching his neck, and spinning along under her as light as a greyhound, and as smooth
as oil. It was something like a pleasant ride. I never forgot that evening, and I never shall.

We rode up to the ruined hut of the solitary man who had lived there so long, and watched the
sun go down so often behind the rock towers from his seat under the big peach tree.

'What a wonderful thing to think of!' Aileen says, as she slipped down off her side-saddle.

We dismounted, too, and hung up our horses.

'Only to think that he was living here before we were born, or father came to Rocky Flat. Oh!
if we could have come here when we were little how we should have enjoyed it! It would have
seemed fairyland to us.'

'It always astonishes me,' said Starlight, 'how any human being can consent to live, year after
year, the same life in the same place. I should go mad half-a-dozen times over. Change and
adventure are the very breath of my nostrils.'

'He had the memory of his dead wife to keep him,' said Aileen. 'Her spirit soothed the restless
heart that would have wandered far into the wilds again.'

'It may be so,' said Starlight dreamily. 'I have known no such influences. An outlaw I, by
forest laws, almost since the days of my boyhood, I shall be so till the day of my death,'
he added.

'If I were a man I should go everywhere,' said Aileen, her eyes sparkling and her face regular
lighted up. Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the
traveler, nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to
rejoice, 'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said
the traveler. Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two,
he said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is
dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our
five moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that
of our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and
that other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior
to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than
real needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed,
but I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish
facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness
of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino
is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near, counting
as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one point, a
moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of water
in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous in
this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive
than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and
revive differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of
metamorphosis, it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have
been in countries where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained,
but are everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature,
which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless
profusion. So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the
gift of thinking and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties
globe. ? Qantas of these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale
we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred,
to wit the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt,
replied the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate
room, and in all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in
all proportions. Your globe is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject
has a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested?
Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven
colors. The strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all
quanta have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet
is a face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and was
answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on.

The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered in his travels
up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to Saturn. Finally,
having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many things, and having
discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey
together philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our
two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision
of mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew,
it came to make bitter complaints.

This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred
feet high, but repaired with the boy through his body. iha cruel!
exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when I had just
given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime
abandoned by traveling with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino
legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you
our five moons, and less changeable our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced
her, weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with
a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments. Just had walked a hundred
and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted on this planet, where they stopped
a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have given to
the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found
something hard to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the
library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop of ... allowed me to register
their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize
such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million
miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our
globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons, but
I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be
possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they
seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable
inn, and went forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales
in the wilderness, and continue to the next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without finding hostel.
After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to people who had
come from Jupiter. However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went
into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each step
ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far
the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other
leg stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse
the comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something
that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot. They returned after the etab first place, having
seen the raft, almost imperceptible to them, they call the Mediterranean, and another pool boy
with big name around our den Oceano; the dwarf gave him water to half a leg, and barely had wet the other
heels.

Were and came up and abaxo, making quanto could be determined whether or not it was inhabited
this Balloon baxaronse, acostaronse, tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate their
eyes and hands with the petty things that go dragging Baxo here, who had no more slight feeling
for where they might fall under suspicion of us and our brothers the other inhabitants of this
globe.

The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living
on earth, and his first reason was that there had been none. Micromegas given to understand with
great civility, which was not founded consequeencia because, he said to him, with your eyes
so kids do not see some stars of Quinquagesima magnitude that I can distinguish very clearly. ?
Colegis why there is such a star?

If I have tempted all, 'said the dwarf. And if not you have felt what it is? he said the other.
If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if it is so irregular, and a configuration
that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine chaos. ? Not see these streams, which runs
any right, these ponds and are round or squares, or oval or any regular figure, all these bumps pointed
that this bristling, and I have entered on your feet? (And wanted to talk about the mountains).
? Do not you notice the way around the globe, flattened at the poles, and spinning around the
sun so confused direction, which by necessity climates of both poles have to be uneducated?
What forces me to believe that there is really living in, is that no one who had reason floor
would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have common sense people, but after it is
presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You say that you all here appears irregular because
everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn. Well, for the same reason is perhaps
some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed variety in my journeys? Replied the
Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if the heat she had not broken the thread
of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose these, that they were very nice bright, though
tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred pounds, and fifty the most petite. Some grabbed
the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished, microscopes were excellent: grabbed
as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied to one eye, while Micromegas
is served another two thousand and five hundred feet. At first they saw nothing with them,
since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that was required. After the inhabitants
of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely
laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb, she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed
at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited
our world he imagined then that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to
guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will.
Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined the animal patiently, bag of consideration
that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse for our two walkers to believe
that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a microscope, package distinguish
other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that by that time returned
from the polar circle, a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had
hitherto thought. They brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the coast of
Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there
is to vnder rope. I I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort
on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take
very mana the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on
a "not too tight, not estruxarle.

Lo here a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of
Saturn and Sirius put the pretense animal in the palm of the hand.

The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion;
sailors caught barrels of wine, toss them at the hand of Micromegas,
and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts circle,
their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally
both were busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers,
and it was a club with an iron tip nailed him a foot in the index
finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become something
The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at
first, as its microscope barely enough to distinguish a ship of a
whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous as a man.

I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop the consideration here,
and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king, but do not lump in the
ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that had a hundred avos thousand of an
inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe terraquueeo in hand, and had bodies
similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these substances, and I gather that
is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small place that has since been restoring
force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this book, have your troop put
hats two feet higher, but I warn you that, however you do, always will be the and his soldiers
about infinitely small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for managing to descry the atoms of which
I speak! Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time, the
seed of which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas like
that of when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements, and continued its
operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension cord to his partner of one of its microscopes journey!
I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So they said, and
they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight. Saturnino
passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy watching in the
propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed."

However Enganabanle appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when
do not use microscopes.

CHAPTER VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then?
as the organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential
to consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something
equivalent to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought
not, little does, which were falling in love? ?

Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying a word,
or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest
thing to a child a syllogism?

My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries.

I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs
later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered, and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what
one of her thumb made the point a kind of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an
ear, the circumference funnel took the ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers
were introduced circular one, so that, through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well
the buzz of our insects abaxo here, and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding
after the French. So did the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers,
on hearing about quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes
that he was dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf
is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without being overheard.
They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very tiny, very sharp
as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his knees and one
on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all these precautions
and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator is pleased to
produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because impenetrable
secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but I despise anyone, and I give
you my protection.
 Then she
told me that she had always had the same sort of feeling towards him. 'When I saw him first
I thought I had never seen a man before--never one that I could care for or think of marrying.
And now he has told me that he loves me--loves me, a poor ignorant girl that I am; and I will
wait for him all my life, and follow him all round the world. I feel as if I could die for
him, or wear out my life in trying to make him happy. And yet, and yet,' she said, and all
her face grew sad, and put on the old look that I knew so well, so hopeless, so full of quiet
bearing of pain, 'I have a kind of feeling at my heart that it will never be. Something will
happen to me or to him. We are all doomed to sorrow and misfortune, and nothing can save us
from our fate.'

'Aileen, dear,' I said, 'you are old enough to know what's best for yourself. I didn't think
Starlight was on for marrying any woman, but he's far and away the best man we've ever known,
so you can please yourself. But you know what the chances are. If he gets clear off, or any
of us, after what's been done, you're right. But it's a hundred to one against it.'

'I'll take the odds,' says she, holding up her head. 'I'm willing to put my life and happiness,
what little there's left of it, on the wager. Things can't well be worse.'

'I don't know,' I said. 'I ought to tell you--I must tell you something before we part, though
I'd a deal rather not. But you'll bear it better now than in a surprise.'

'Not more blood, more wickedness,' she said, in a half-whisper, and then she looks up stern
and angry-like. 'When is this list of horrible things to stop?'

'It was none of our doing. Moran and Daly were in it, and----'

'And none of you? Swear that,' she said, so quick and pitiful-like.

'None of us,' I said again; 'nor yet Warrigal.'

'Then who did it? Tell me all. I'm not a child. I will know.'

'You remember the man that was rude to you at Rocky Flat, and father and he fired at one another?'

'Of course I do, cowardly wretch that he was. Then Moran was waiting for them up the gully?
I wondered that they did not come back next day.'

'They never came back,' I said.

'Why, you don't mean to tell me that they are all dead, all four?--those strong men! Oh, surely
not, Dick?' and she caught hold of my arm, and looked up into my face.

'Yes, Aileen, all. We came after and followed up dad, when we got home; it's a wonder he did
it by himself. But we saw them all four lying stretched out.'

She put down her head and never spoke more till we parted.

    .   .   .   .   .

We turned back, miserable enough all of us, God knows. After having Aileen to make the place
bright and pleasant and cheer us all up losing her was just as if all the little pleasure we
had in our lives was dropped out of them--like the sun going out of the sky, and the wind rising;
like the moon clouding over, and a fog burying up everything--dark and damp, the same as we'd
had it many a time cattle-driving by night. We hardly spoke a word to one another all the way
home, and no wonder.

Next day we all sat about, looking more down on our luck, dad said, than any day since we'd
'turned out'. Then Starlight told him about him and Aileen, how they'd made it up to be married
some day or other. Not yet, of course; but if he could get away by Melbourne to some of these
places--the islands on the Pacific coast, where vessels were always sailing for--he didn't
see why his luck shouldn't change. 'I have always thought your daughter,' he says to father,
'one of the grandest women I ever met, in any degree, gentle or simple. She has had the imprudence
to care for me; so, unless you have some well-grounded objection--and I don't say you haven't,
mind you, I should if I were in your place--you may as well say you're contented, and wish
us luck!'

Father was a long time before he said anything. He sat there, looking very sullen and set-like,
while Starlight lit a cigar and walked quietly up and down a few paces off.

Dad answers at last. 'I don't say but what other lads would have suited better if they'd come
off, but most things goes contrary in this world. The only thing as I'm doubtful of, Captain,
is your luck. If that's bad, all the trying and crying won't set it right. And it's great odds
as you'll be caught or shot afore the year's out. For that matter, every one of us is working
for Government on the same road. But the gal's a good gal, and if she's set her fancy on you
I won't block her. You're a pair of dashed fools, that's all, botherin' your heads with the
like at a time like this, when you boys are all more likely to have a rope round your necks
than any gal's arms, good or bad. Have your own way. You always managed to get it, somehow
or other, ever since I knowed ye.'

After this father lit his pipe and went into the cave.

By and by he comes out again and catches the old mare.

'I ain't been out of this blessed hole,' he says, 'for a month of Sundays. I'm dead tired of
seeing nothin' and doin' nothin'. I'll crawl over to old Davy's for our letters and papers.
We ain't heard nothing for a year, seems to me.'

Dad was strong enough to get about in the saddle again, and we weren't sorry to get shut of
him for a bit. He was that cranky at times there was no living with him. As for ourselves,
we were regular wild for some sort of get away for a bit of a change; so we hadn't talked it
over very long before we made up our minds to take a run over to Jonathan Barnes's and have
a bit of fun, just to take the taste out of our mouths of Aileen's going away.

We had to dress ourselves very quiet and get fresh horses--nags that had nothing particular
about them to make people look, at the same time with a bit of go in them in case we were pushed
at any time.

No sooner said than done. We went to work and got everything ready, and by three o'clock we
were off--all three of us, and never in better heart in our lives--for a bit of fun or devilment;
it didn't matter which came first.

When we got to Jonathan's it was latish, but that didn't matter to us or to the girls neither;
they were always ready for a bit of fun, night or day. However, just at first they pretended
to be rather high and mighty about this business of Hagan's.

'Oh! it's you, is it?' says Bella, after we walked in. 'I don't know as it's safe for us to
be knowing such dangerous characters. There's a new law against harbouring, father says. He's
pretty frightened, I can tell you, and for two pins we'd be told to shut the door in your faces.'

'You can do that if you like now,' says I; 'we shan't want telling twice, I daresay. But what
makes you so stiff to-night?'

'Why, Hagan's business, of course,' says Maddie; 'four men killed in cold blood. Only I know
you couldn't and wouldn't be in it I'd not know any of ye from a crow. 

Areche, Medina and Mata-Linares, authors of such atrocities, received honors and applause: but
the appearance of the victims, their last cries, their quivering members, their bodies destroyed
by force of torments, such memories are not so easily erased the memory of men, [5] and must
perpetuate the story to give these names to the hatred of centuries.

A few examples give the annals of nations of a dreadful carnage. Not only be tormented and
sacrificed to Tupac-Amaru, his wife, his son, his brothers, uncles, brothers, and confident,
but is banned in all his mass of kinship, however remote that they were the degrees of consanguinity
that united them. Spared only to a child of eleven, son of Tupac-Amaru, who after having witnessed
the torture of their parents and relatives, was sent to Spain, where he died shortly afterwards.
So it must be apocryphal title Fifth grandson of the last Emperor of Peru, who took Juan Bautista
Tupamaru to achieve the Government of Buenos Aires a pension for life. [6]

The only useful result of this great new organization was shaking the Court Spain gave to the
administration of its overseas provinces, and the abolition of the divisions. This was legitimized
the principle invoked Tupac-Amaru to improve the lot of Indians, they found after their delegates,
managers more accountable, and therefore more comprehensive than the magistrates.

RELATIONSHIP HISTORY &

* * * * *

While the cruel and bloody disturbances,
which have excited and encouraged the Indians in the provinces in
South America have been the sole cause of many unfortunate miseries,
as its inhabitants have continued, it is nevertheless must admit that
the real and formal origin of them is none other than the general
corruption of customs, and the utmost confidence or neglect that until
now has lived on this continent.

       So it seems it is clear from the facts themselves, and persuade all
circumstances.

In some years been carried on were recognized in the same America many of those services and disorders
that are likely to cause the biggest revolution to a state, it no longer among its inhabitants was
another union that the sides and parties. The public good was sacrificed to special interests: the
power and respect to the laws, he was only a name vain oppression
and inhumanity and horror inspired not to the more than men accustomed
to see the crime succeed.

Hatred, treachery, usury and incontinence represented in their respective theaters, the most
tragic scene, and lost the modesty broke the sacred laws and civil scandal reprehensible.

Such was the unhappy state of these provinces in the matter of discipline, and not better it
was concluded in order to the security and defense of them, they were not weapons, ammunition
or other supplies for the war lacked officers and soldiers who understood the art of war: because,
although the capital of this vast kingdom, such as Lima and Buenos Aires, are good and intelligent,
like the fire of rebellion is ignited in the center of the same provinces
and almost at the same time at all, and the distance from one to another
capital is a thousand leagues at least, did not result in anything
other than to make inevitable the damage, because although they had
named regiments of militia, whose strength was grown in the statements
sent to the Court, it was learned later that only existed in the imagination
of the formed, perhaps some decent view of their high character, that
produced the utility patent rights and other imposts.

 His eyes was bound up mostly; he had
a big shade over 'em, and was half the night swabbing and poulticing, and putting lotion into
'em. He'd got sandy blight that bad it would take months to get right. Once you get a touch
like that it's a terror, I can tell you. I've had it that bad myself I had to be led about.

After a lot of talking, that Jim was to try his luck as the Rev. Mr. Watson's coachman, he
was mad to get away somehow, and such another chance might never turn up in a month of Sundays.
He would have plenty of time to shave his beard and make himself look as like as ever he could
to Joe Moreton. Maddie said she'd see after that, and it would be as good as a play. Lucky
for old Jim we'd all taken a fancy at the Turon, for once in a way, to talk like Arizona Bill
and his mates, just for the fun of the thing. There were so many Americans there at first,
and they were such swells, with their silk sashes, bowie knives, and broad-leafed 'full-share'
hats, that lots of the young native fellows took a pride in copying them, and could walk and
talk and guess and calculate wonderful well considering. Besides, most of the natives have
a sort of slow, sleepy way of talking, so it partly came natural to this chap, Joe Moreton,
and Jim. There couldn't be a better chance, so we thought we'd stay a day and give Jim a send
off all square and regular. It wasn't no ways too safe, but we wanted a bit of a jollification
and we thought we'd chance it.

That night we had a regular good ball. The girls got some of the young fellows from round about
to come over, and a couple or two other girls, and we had no end of fun. There was plenty of
champagne, and even Jim picked up a bit; and what with being grateful to Maddie for giving
him this lift, and better in spirits on the chance of seeing Jeanie again, he was more like
his own self. Maddie said he looked so handsome she had half a mind to throw over Joe Moreton
after all. But as missing and the right, and begin to discover your evil
intention, far from producing the good effects that are promised in this submissive offer only
served to act as tyrants more. Rogábales humbly, and tried to dissuade alleged complaints with
the Europeans, he said to them that everything was false and fabricated by malice of those who
persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these means of gently, began to manage their slings,
rehearsing the way she had to use them.

These are the causes from which it originated so cruel rebellion against the majesty and Europeans;
but I'll add another to my view is the main foundation of this bloody event. They made 10 years, who
undergoes a total backlog of work of mine, so that now there was no one to carry formal work,
or could pay to the owner as necessary to their preservation and rotating, being the only thing
that supported the neighborhood, which brought the total decline miners to their constitution
so unfortunate that those who were counted in the main, and other times possessed flow bounds,
as were Rodriguez, Herrera, Galleguillos and others were in a state of destitution, discovered
in many thousands, and the King, as with other individuals, without being able to pay, or
continue the work of their work, lack media. The Europeans, who were the only enablers, no longer
wanted to supply them with much some, and desperate to find no remedy for distress, and chancel
debts, plotted This rebellion, which will be uncertain times to come, by all deaths, robberies,
sacrilege, desecration and other cruelties egecutaron.

Forced the militants, the many prayers and persuasions that were used by several sugetos, entered
the barracks, after the prayer of that day, Feb. 10, not stay in it as other nights, but only to
deceive their masters with this apparent obedience, and with a view to give them the loans
that they had assigned. While were paid, were heard in the streets and squares, many voices and
screams of boys and others mob, who firing stones with slingshots, they put the people in quite some
consternation. A question this time played with the bell of the matrix, as had been prevented
for that all came together for the post said. Practicáronlo well, but could not find out who
have touched, or that order, forcing the mayor to bet a company should command in every corner
of the square, if it had some unexpected assault. When they were taking these and other provisions
to guard, he heard the sound of various horns, which one extremity to another or correspond
to confirm the entry of Indians as was decided that some saliesen to reconnoiter, who returned
with the news that there was no one in that neighborhood, and cracked the case, found that those
who blew the trumpets, were two black D. Jacinto Rodriguez, D. Nicolas de Herrera, and Isidore
Quevedo, that together with this news for Europeans, they were easier to get your desperate attempt.
Insured these that there was nothing to fear from the Indians, somewhat reassured, and went
to dinner together at home Endeiza. But the first dish put on the table, entered D. Joseph Cayetano
de Casas, shedding much blood, a dangerous thrust, which had given the natives, because they
stood as to fall around the corner matrix, which was keeping with his company, and while referring
their misfortune and some claimed was the conspiracy of the natives against them, they heard
that flashed from thousands of square stones and balconies towards the house, and determined
to defend themselves to the last extremity, took the firearms they had, to fire on rioters and
resist the insult: but detúvolos the same owner, D. José de Endeiza, sugeto of exemplary life,
knowing who it was inevitable death of all, they reasoned that, full of Christian zeal which animated
him. "Come, friends and colleagues, there is no remedy, we all die, it is verified to be the sedition
against us: we have more crime than being European, and having collected our flow, to secure
them, sight of the natives. Comply at all the will of God, we do not lack the confidence of
his mercy and forgiveness we hope it of our sins: and therefore we shall give account to the court
as fair, do not do any death or relocate this crime to the presence of God, and so you seek to
shoot their guns air, and without thinking smite any: maybe just get the sound intimidating, and
make their escape. "Thus, with tears in his eyes, pulled the line prevented, which proves not
to have hurt any of the natives with more than 200 shots fired, and even then it wanted to
assert the opposite, was an invention of the authors of the mutiny.

The tumultuantes angry, furious and full of anger, flashed a hondazos against balconies, and
others tried to burn down the house.

The women were employed in hauling stones the more solid and stronger than found in the mines,
taking care not to men is missing provision. 4.000 already passed the mutineers, increased risk
of Europeans, locked Endeiza's house, and waited for a few moments were a victim of the mob. To
avoid this, left the Church of the Blessed Sacrament of Mercy, whose diligence did not help
anything than to increase the crime of those barbarians with the greatest sacrilege: for detached
of all humanity, also missed the veneration and respect due to the God of heaven and earth, because
they ignored the real presence, and continued the assault on the house. The magistrate, rather
than hear any shooting, went to the house of D. Manuel de Herrera, and he strongly urged go
out with him through the streets to appease the tumult, to see if we got their respect what
had not been achieved after having used many means, to which he answered no was time, and played happily
with the priest of Sorasora, D. Isidoro Velasco and others, to whom little interest was consternation
in the village. Seeing the mayor disillusioned, and made sure that sought to take his life,
was obliged to undertake escape to save her, and from the same household as Herrera took the
field without carrying prevention one for the road, and taking of Cochabamba, managed to take refuge
in the town, capital of that province.

Rioters continued their investigation, and not to faint from the company, shouted some in the streets:
- "Come, Creole and Creole, carrying stones to slay escutcheons for
they were our enemies, "and irritate and inspire the minds, they said
sometimes "And took his head to Don Jacinto Rodriguez:" others "have
killed 30 civilians ours."

But among them who excelled more than all was D. Juan Montesinos, who said to great Voices:
- "Go both men and women to my house and take out wood and straw to set fire, and finish escutcheons
with these traitors, "as practiced immediately, fire balconies and main store, which, forced to
leave through the roof these unfortunate European were passed to the neighboring houses. Then
they warned, they took all the avenues and Finding no other recourse but to flee by the front
door, were resolved to egecutarlo, but seized with a furious crowd of natives, they would kill
and would out, until they were torn apart and unknowable. While some were engaged in these cruelties,
and burn the house, some in conjunction with the women, looted shops and high houses, where up
to 700,000 pesos treasured the Europeans themselves, and others, would have persuaded the
insurance, placed in his power, in the species of gold, silver sealed, rods, cones, effects
of Castilla and the earth: having already looted before the store of a creole, called Pantaleon
Martinez, on the pretext that it was complicit in the course attempt by Europeans, for which
reason was to lose all their assets, and die with them.

At five in the morning of day 11 could be seen as the pitiful sight of many dead lying in the
streets, naked and so shattered, that needed to be examined with great prolixity to know. Not content
with this revenge, were sent to the site carrying outrageous roll, and then passed them to the
threshold of the prison where they were held two days most of them
being fed to the dogs.

It is understood in this misfortune, D. José Endeiza, D. Juan Blanco, D. Miguel Salinas, D.
Juan Pedro Ximenez, D. Juan Vicente Larra, D. Sunday Pavia, D. Ramon Llano, D. Cayetano José
Casas, D. Antonio Sanchez, D. Francisco Palazuelos others were unknown, and five black. Followed the
murderers taking on clear day egecutaban the thefts, saying publicly what they had won a great
war, and that I played right, and going to prison after they opened the doors, drove out all prisoners,
and then left saying in a loud voice, Long live our chief justice, D. Jacinto Rodriguez, walking
together with great mirth and joy, touching boxes and trumpets him out of his house, made him
turn to the main square, and repeating the cheers, I turned to her, and having gone to the
priest vicar the balconies of the chapter house, to ask what it was seeking to appease, all
answered with one voice: - We by Chief Justice Don Jacinto Rodriguez, and others that the mayor
and then go escutcheons the place, banished to view our.

At noon of the day began to get some pieces of Indians, playing their loud horns, and armed with
slingshots and sticks. With horror of nature could be seen that after filing the obedience
to D. Jacinto, to ensure their customary demonstrations of performance, they were coming to defend
his life, which gratified expressions generously Salian running together with the natives to see
the dead, so fierce unloaded again their anger against the mangled
corpses, giving clubs, trying all bloody their hands and bathe in
that innocent blood.

From there they went to the houses of D. Manuel Herrera, the captain Menacho, and his brother
D. Antonio Quiros, whom he distinguished with equal honors. The rest of the afternoon he was
employed to examine the houses where some had presumed flow for plunder, and to recognize the
most secret places where they suspected had been hiding some European, those who had liberated
the night before. Continued to enter in Indian troops, who were convened in the vicinity. They
came with white flags, and left the natives to receive them, giving them lots of hugs, and urged them
to ensure the entry to the mother church in search of fugitives Europeans, and when they could
not if any to the hands, at least, is hiciesen deliver the weapons they had hidden in it. Got this
because the cure, so as not to violate the sacred, were given several pistols and swords; but
not happy with them, demanding that others with insolence, and not taking the cure so to please,
determined to get to the top of the roll to preach, and be discipline in public, which act far to
soften, they provoked laughter, and insolent again, he fired some hondazos, with their effective
insinuation made him good to get off quickly. In that time he had taken in procession Prior of
San Agustin, together with the communities of San Francisco and La Merced, the devotional statue
of the Holy Christ of Burgos, carried in procession through the streets, squares and outskirts
of the village, but the old one with him: and without any appreciation or respect as sacred image,
the Creoles occupied, together with the Indians, in plundering the house of Corregidor. And when he
begged the Father Prior would be directed down the street from the Inn of Jerusalem, to see if
it contained the Indians who were knocking down the door of the store of D. Francisco Resa, I egecutó,
but nothing could get, whether caused by the Indians began to declare his apostasy to the Catholic
religion, which until then had professed judged: it said aloud, that this image is not supposed
more than any piece of maguey or pasta, and as these and other deceptions were suffering by
painters.

He was beginning to feel the consternation that caused the Indians, who had entered the town in the
space of 6 hours, the number went from 4,000, convened by D. Jacinto Rodriguez and partial, one
of them said to enter the time of Paria, which came in peace, for the day before had left 25 sugetos
to stop and hinder his coming, because they were not longer needed, when he had achieved the desired
success. But the news had looting and flow that still existed, was no incentive to obey the
order of retire, and multiplied so that it is incredible the excessive
number as he walked the streets, divided into troops, playing their
horns, and firing stones with slings, so that all people of distinction
Christianity and was sheltered in churches, imploring the mercy of
the Almighty, and expecting instant death.

During the night occupied in looting homes and shops of Europe. D. Francisco Rodriguez, the mayor,
the priest pastor and other priests, tried on 12 in the morning to contain the robberies,
which were egecutando shop and house of D. Manuel Bustamante, but nothing could get, because
burst in these voices: "Death to the Mayor, because he knew his countrymen insult" to this
Indians continued shouting, district, commune, word they used when they wanted to kill or
stealing, as if to say all at one. Not verified this havoc, because the mayor managed to get
in safety through the same turmoil.

The opening day 13 sent Cabildo D. Jacinto Rodriguez, and when they boasted was to take some Providence,
just went to that received from Chief Justice, who had employment possessed with only the authority
of the rebels. Before going into the chapter house, he approached the gates of the main church,
and made some demonstrations of wanting to hold the Indians, who tried to enter and desecrate
the temple, looking to the Europeans, so the priest had resisted until then: but persuaded by
Rodriguez and D. Manuel de Herrera, agreed as to fall twelve of the most major. The pretext
was to remove only the mayor, which they believed was in the Bobeda. The priest assured them
that there was such, however simple or maliciously added that four Europeans had already confessed.
Indians who desired nothing, burned anger, and full of fury entered
the church by force, opened Bobeda, and Indian more daring than men,
penetrated the most hidden.

They found none, but as was both the desire for revenge against the mayor, got out the coffin, which
had deposited the body of D. Francisco Mollinedo, postmaster, who had a few days before deceased;
mandáronlo unpinning, believing the mayor was inside, but not finding, took the knife and
unloaded on the corpse, its fury, giving many stabs. Went afterwards to recognize the second time
the church, and found Don Miguel State, which killed in the same cemetery also found Don Miguel
Bustamante, and bringing the web Town Council, presented him with Don Live Jacinto Rodriguez,
was asked if he had to kill, and having decided as they entered the jail, to load the prison,
ignored of the order, and said loudly: "You have called us to kill escutcheons, and now you want to only
enter the prison, they should not be so "and using common voice commune, killing one unhappy. Continued
desecrating the temple, peering with light the most hidden places him, cercáronle, and brought
out D. Vincent D. Fierro and Francisco Resa of a neighboring house, whom they also killed.

Primed and Indian temples desecrate and kill the Europeans, entered the church and convent San
Agustin, found in the street with D. Agustin Arregui, Creole, and wanting to kill because they found
Europe to escape, he said: "I am not escutcheon, but Creole: entered the convent, where five escutcheons
with their weapons. "But for sure, they took him with them, and after having sought the most secret
places, gave cruel death, because not having found them, were persuaded wanted to get away with
this deception. There were those who be notified shortly after the hiding place to search, and
re-entering with bent fury, Don found Ventura Ayarra, D. Pedro Martinez, D. Francisco Antonio
Cacho and a Frenchman, who had taken an hour before the habit of religion: those who perished
also to the hands of those barbarians.

14 day dawned surrounded by a multitude of Indians Convent of Mercy, and to ensure Dam climbed
to the roof, and going with the biggest insult in the church, recognized
all, and finding under the mantle of Our Lady of Dolores, Don José
Bullain, pulled him out to shove, and killed him.

They returned in droves to the church, and found that those who had been taken out to D. Jose Ibarguen,
woman dress, costume it took to be confused with sex, and while praying with others, accused
him a native. Acometiéronle furious known for shoes and torn from the arms of his own consort,
whom the pain forced to leave in pursuit of her husband, and whom he consoled the murderers, to say
"Do not cry, we do not our fault, because they will egecutamos by order of D. Jacinto Rodriguez.
"He ran in search of a pardon, but when he returned, found her husband naked, torn. At that
moment found below a walk to a black slave D. Azero Diego, and he gave the same death. Followed
these and other cruelties, which were increased with the coming than 6,000 Indians from Sorasora,
who united to the others, looking with equal fury and care to the Europeans: they found in
a loft to D. Pedro Lagran, who had freed her life the first night
of mayhem, and led him into the place where he finished in the same
manner than the others.

This was seen hit by ambition and greed of four or six sugetos, the greatness of the All-Mighty,
desecrated their temples, neglected their sacred images usurped the immunity of churches and the homes
of Rodriguez, as these were the best asylum to escape death, as did so many Europeans, either
by the partnerships an old friendship, and to provide coverage or their heinous crimes, with
some pious deeds: but the Lord's house, altars and shrines were polluted, neglected and abused
by this vile villain.

At night, the Indians forsake the Convent of Mercy, he fought in D. José Knight, D. José Lorzano,
and D. Manuel Puch, for the diligence of a religious, but believing the commander that the seditious
incendiary church because of this forced them to leave to a house they had designed, dressed in ordinary
attire. The unfortunate D. José Knight with the confusion was separated from the others, and
was compelled to remain among the tumultuous, until midnight, which led him to being discovered
D. Jacinto Rodriguez Having said he did not know him, ended at the hands of traitors, with the
most cruel death can devise iniquity. They were also victims of their fury 14 blacks of Europe,
no more crime to be their slaves. Looting followed consecutively 20 houses, and according to
prudent regulation, ascendjeron theft up to two million pesos, having died Europeans not only contained
the villa, but also those of all the surroundings, which heads wore the Indians, to introduce
the new Chief Justice, who made them bury clandestinely.

Confidence wavered and D. Jacinto Rodriguez, and began to fear that had them called, joined the
Indians, and prevent them be maintained after only one day in the village, offered boxes would
give them real weight to each, which fact the next egecutó day 15,
with no more authority than they please: and agreed with royal officials
opened doors of the treasure of King, and extrageron four pouches,
and sending them back together, it I fulfilled that promise, and made
them understand by the priest, who had no need remaining within the
population, and each received weight, to withdraw their stays.

"My children, he told me, as your priest and vicar, and on behalf of the whole neighborhood,
I give due thanks for the faithfulness with which you came to defend, escutcheons killing these
rogues, we wanted to take life to betray all Creoles a thousand times thank you, and I pray
you retire to your homes, and as it I have seen, are dead, and if you had incurred any excommunication
or censure Make every act of contrition, to receive absolution. "
 It was as good as a play. I got up as near as I dared once or twice, and
I couldn't hardly keep from bursting out laughing when I saw how grave he talked and drawled
and put up his eyeglass, and every now and then made 'em all laugh, or said something reminded
him of India, where he'd last come from.

Well, that was a regular fizzer of a spree, if we never had another. The racing was very fair,
and, as luck would have it, the Dawson horses won all the big money, and, as they started at
longish odds, they must have made a pot of money, and Starlight too, as he'd gone in a docker
for their stable. This made them better friends than ever, and it was Dawson here and Lascelles
there all over the course.

Well, the day went over at last, and all of them that liked a little fun and dancing better
than heavy drinking made it up to go to the race ball. It was a subscription affair--guinea
tickets, just to keep out the regular roughs, and the proceeds to go to the Turon Jockey Club
Fund. All the swells had to go, of course, and, though they knew it would be a crush and pretty
mixed, as I heard Starlight say, the room was large, the band was good, and they expected to
get a fair share of dancing after an hour or so.

Starlight and the Dawsons dined at the camp, and were made a good deal of--their health drunk
and what not--and Starlight told us afterwards he returned thanks for the strangers and visitors;
said he'd been told Australia was a rough place, but he never expected to find so much genuine
kindness and hospitality and, he might add, so much refinement and gentlemanly feeling. Speaking
for himself, he had never expected, considering his being a total stranger, to be welcomed
so cordially and entertained so handsomely, more particularly at the mess of her Majesty's
goldfields officials, whose attention on this occasion they might be assured he would never
forget. He would repeat, the events of this particular day would never be effaced from his
memory. (Tremendous cheering.)

After dinner, and when the champagne had gone round pretty reasonable, the Commissioner proposed
they should all adjourn to the ball, when, if Mr. Lascelles cared about dancing, he ventured
to think a partner or two could be found for him. So they all got up and went away down to
the hall of the Mechanics' Institute--a tremendous big room that had been built to use as a
theatre, and to give lectures and concerts in. These sort of things are very popular at diggings.
Miners like to be amused, and have plenty of money to spend when times are good. There was
hardly a week passed without some kind of show being on when we went there.

I walked down quietly an hour or so before most of the people, so as to be in the way to see
if Aileen came. We'd asked her to come on the chance of meeting us there, but we hadn't got
any word, and didn't know whether she could manage it nor whether George would bring her. I
had a sort of half-and-half notion that perhaps Gracey might come, but I didn't like to think
of it for fear of being disappointed, and tried to make believe I didn't expect her.

I gave in my ticket and walked in about eight o'clock, and sat down pretty close to the door
so that I could see the people as they came in. I didn't feel much up to dancing myself, but
I'd have ridden a thousand miles to have had the chance of seeing those two girls that night.

I waited and waited while one after another came in, till the big hall was pretty near filled,
and at nine o'clock or so the music struck up, and the first dance began. That left the seats
pretty bare, and between listening to the music and looking at the people, and thinking I was
back again at the old claim and passing half-an-hour at a dance-house, I didn't mind the door
so much till I heard somebody give a sort of sigh not very far off, and I looked towards the
door and saw two women sitting between me and it.

They were Aileen and Gracey sure enough. My head almost turned round, and I felt my heart beat--beat
in a way it never did when the bullets were singing and whistling all about. It was the suddenness
of it, I expect. I looked at them for a bit. They didn't see me, and were just looking about
them as I did. They were dressed very quiet, but Gracey had a little more ornament on her,
and a necklace or something round her neck. Aileen was very pale, but her beautiful dark hair
was dressed up a bit with one rosebud in it, and her eyes looked bigger and brighter than they
used to do. She looked sad enough, but every now and then Gracey said something that made her
smile a bit, and then I thought she was the handsomest girl in the room. Gracey had just the
same steady, serious, kind face as ever; she'd hardly changed a bit, and seemed pleased, just
like a child at the play, with all that was going on round about.

There was hardly anybody near the corner where they were, so I got up and went over. They both
looked at me for a minute as if they'd never seen me before, and then Aileen turned as pale
as death, and Gracey got altogether as red, and both held out their hands. I sat down by the
side of Aileen, and we all began to talk. Not much at first, and very quiet, for fear notice
might be taken, but I managed to let them know that the police had all been called off in another
direction, and that we should be most likely safe till to-morrow or next day.

'Oh dear!' says Gracey, 'wasn't it awfully rash of you to come here and run all this risk just
to come to Bella Barnes's wedding? I believe I ought to be jealous of that girl.'

'All Starlight's fault,' I said; 'but anyhow, it's through him we've had this meeting here.
I was dead against coming all the time, and I never expected things to turn out so lucky as
they have done.'

'Will he be here to-night?' Aileen says, very soft and timid like. 'I almost wished I'd stayed
away, but Gracey here would come. Young Cyrus Williams brought us. He wanted to show his wife
the races, and take her to the ball. There they are, dancing together. George is away at the
races.'

'You will see Starlight about ten or eleven o'clock, I expect,' I said. 'He's dining with the
Commissioner and the camp officers. They'll all come together, most likely.'

'Dining at the camp!' says Aileen, looking regularly perished. 'You don't mean to say they've
taken him?'

'I mean what I say. He's here with the Mr. Dawsons, of Wideview, and has been hand-and-glove
with all the swells. I hardly think you'll know him. It's as much as I did.'

Poor Aileen gave another sigh.

'Do you think he'll know me?' she says. 'Oh! what a foolish girl I was to think for a moment
that he could care about a girl like me. Oh! I wish I had never come.'

'Nonsense,' says Gracey, who looked a deal brighter on it. 'Why, if he's the man you say he
is, this will only bring him out a bit. What do you think, Di--I mean Mr. Jones?'

'That's right, Miss Storefield,' says I. 'Keep to the company manners to-night. We don't know
who may be listening; but I'm not much afraid of being bowled out this particular night. Somehow
I feel ready to chance everything for an hour's happiness like this.'

Gracey said nothing, but looked down, and Aileen kept turning towards the door as if she half
hoped and was half afraid of seeing him come in. By and by we heard some one say, 'Here comes
the Commissioner; all the camp will be here now,' and there was a bit of a move to look at
them as they came in.

Chapter 42

A good many gentlemen and ladies that lived in the town and in the diggings, or near it, had
come before this and had been dancing away and enjoying themselves, though the room was pretty
full of diggers and all sorts of people. But as everybody was quiet and well behaved, it didn't
make much odds who was there.

But, of course, the Commissioner was the great man of the whole place, and the principal visitors,
like the Mr. Dawsons and some others, were bound to come along with him. Then there were the
other Government officers, the bankers and surveyors, lawyers and doctors, and so on. All of
them took care to come a little late with their wives and families so as to be in the room
at the same time as the swell lot.

Bella Barnes was going to marry a surveyor, a wildish young fellow, but a good one to work
as ever was. She was going to chance his coming straight afterwards. He was a likely man to
rise in his office, and she thought she'd find a way to keep him out of debt and drinking and
gambling too.

Well, in comes the Commissioner and his friends, very grand indeed, all dressed like swells
always do in the evening, I believe, black all over, white tie, shining boots, white kid gloves,
flower in their buttonhole, all regular. People may laugh, but they did look different from
the others--showed more blood like. I don't care what they say, there is such a thing.

Close by the Commissioner, laughing and talking, was the two Mr. Dawsons; and--I saw Aileen
give a start--who should come next, cheek by jowl with the police magistrate, whom he'd been
making laugh with something he'd said as they came in, but Starlight himself, looking like
a regular prince--their pictures anyhow--and togged out to the nines like all the rest of 'em.
Aileen kept looking at him as he lounged up the ballroom, and I thought she'd fall down in
a faint or bring herself to people's notice by the wild, earnest, sad way she looked at him.
However he'd got his clothes and the rest of it that fitted him like as if they'd been grown
for him, I couldn't think. But of course he'd made all that right when he went to Sydney, and
had 'em sent up with his luggage in Mr. Dawson's drag.

Though he didn't seem to notice anything, I saw that he knew us. He looked round for a moment,
and smiled at Aileen.

'That's a pretty girl,' he said to one of the young fellows; 'evidently from the country. I
must get introduced to her.'

'Oh, we'll introduce you,' says the other man. 'They're not half bad fun, these bush girls,
some of them.'

Well, a new dance was struck up by the band just after they'd got up to the top of the room,
and we saw Starlight taken up and introduced to a grand lady, the wife of the head banker.
The Commissioner and some of the other big wigs danced in the same quadrille. We all moved
a bit higher to get a good look at him. His make-up was wonderful. We could hardly believe
our eyes. His hair was a deal shorter than he ever wore it (except in one place), and he'd
shaved nearly all but his moustache. That was dark brown and heavy. You couldn't see his mouth
except when he smiled, and then his teeth were as white as Warrigal's nearly and as regular.
There was a softness, too, about his eyes when he was in a good temper and enjoying himself
that I hardly ever saw in a man's face. I could see Aileen watching him when he talked to this
lady and that, and sometimes she looked as if she didn't enjoy it.

He was only waiting his chance, though, for after he'd had a dance or two we saw him go up
to one of the stewards. At night more appropriate
measures taken to guard against the danger threatening the immediacy of the enemy, and quite right
to seize the occasion to egecucion of caution, and indeed were not useless, because at 2 in the
morning gave notice Guansapata Castle, which set in motion. Orellana sent immediately to obtain
weapons to the troops, it was not intended to defend the positions and left the room to see for himself
the intention, and found that the rebels had actually fallen to the foot of the heights occupied,
but suspended the continuation of his departure until the morning 6-1/2, where divided into
many pieces, and a movement of both armies, led first to the fourth attack, with more desperation
and ferocity than the previous, making gestures, expressing the trust which had the maturity day.

Why
not fainted those brave defenders constant, but rather in spite of continuous effort and care, suffered
in the days and nights of background, it showed his commander fearlessly
willing to stamina, and each occupying the position had noted, it
was all over the enemy with the most constant bravery.

Its main effort was directed to the trenches who ruled D. Francisco Barreda, D. Juan Monasterio
and D. Juan Caceres, because they recognized since the preceding day, which was abandoned James
Castle, whose fire the pony shed, and prevented the rebels near too much to them, like advancing
egecutaron repeatedly with obstinacy, however it was always rejected. On the back of the church
of San Juan, rushed to equal or greater effort, but contained D. Martin Cea with his squad of riflemen,
and cavalry Calacoto and Juliaca, reinforced by the slingers of the same people who had Orellana
Sent bet that post since the beginning of the attack. D. trench Juan Caceres flattered the hopes
of the enemies, and therefore repeated against it with more vivacity their efforts and attacks,
because having already succeeded in forcing the previous days, the persuaded that that place
could open the way they wanted to the interior of the villa; so that Orellana was necessary to help
with some soldiers who separated from others, where the danger and the need was not so much,
to increase their strength with some troops, of which was kept in reserve to go where more attention
by such occurrences. It was the general conflict and enemies constantly redoubled their attacks,
fighting with desperate obstinacy, confident in the crowd, opposed to that our constant resistance
everywhere when D. Andres Calisaya with a piece of horse made a turn at the top of the village,
passing through Guansapata Castle fell into Orcopata through the multitude of enemies who occupied
this post, and at the expense of bizarre and determined action, not only managed to surprise,
but leaving much admired courage, the besieged had a short interval to take some breath. But
very soon became again, and with greater commitment, to hostilities prevented from useful to break
down the walls the enclosure and sought an entry less difficult and dangerous, as indeed did
so, penetrating to the back of the Inn of Santa Rosa, where they set fire to houses on that
side, that already is considered possession. But a short time enjoyed the privilege, because they
were evicted from that post by the adjutant, with the troops under his command, who, after their rejection,
promptly interrupted the progress of the flames.

The commander of artillery, D. Francisco Vicenteli, always attentive to the passages that were considered
most at risk, addressed them from the main square a high heat, and so well, which punished and
contained to the rebels, until little by little they were giving up and retiring in the vicinity
of the population, and putting it on the side of the neighboring mountains. D. Antonio Urbina was
also a sustained fire from the Castle Guansapata, the son of very useful, particularly to
prevent the multitude of Indians, who tried to force Barreda, who
commanded the trenches and Monastery, they succeeded.

The Santiago, in charge of D. Javier Martin Esquire, directed their fire more frequently to the campaign,
where he fought cavalry contrary to ours, held again and a corps of slingers. From the fort located
at the four corners of the chief's house D. Anselmo Bustinza, they fired a gun at his own expense
cast, with which it defended part of the campaign was found on that side, and not just contained
to the besiegers, but also freed the fire to the whole neighborhood had suffered the misfortune
of Tambo de Santa Rosa, for being distant from the defense. Well that was the only win they got
that day: short in reality, and that in no way corresponded to the loss they had suffered in
so many and as repeated assaults, in which they had established an effort and consistency that could
not never expected or believed in a nation that had previously been considered a character fickle
and weak. The action lasted until half past three in the afternoon, when they had committed
all enemy forces, separating the attack that sent Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, his headquarters,
rather than those of the Chucuito, thereby delaying their stubborn half hour but fruitless errands,
and removed all their camps, the garrison held to attend to their wounded, who passed 100, not
the dead who came to 60, more than rifle range, the loss can be deemed significant when compared
with those experienced in previous attacks, while proving the courage and determination with
which led in this. But love and constancy that encouraged the besieged, far from Apopka, became
even harder at the sight of the unhappy fate of their companions, and prepared to generous determination
to resist the assault the next day they saw as inevitable, when the first lights to warn the novelty
of that night have suddenly disappeared Tupac-Amaru Cristoval Diego and all his companions with such
haste that left rich field wearing umbrellas against the sun's rays, and many provisions that seized
consignments of the besieged, for the recognition of the campaign, and few days after they disappeared
also those who had come from the part of Chucuito, as is referred. Favorable effects which
caused the immediacy and presence of Lima troops with so much opportunity, that the defenders had to
undergo immediate and the end of the needs and dangers and the lack of ammunition and ammunition,
as a result of being frustrated all hopes of receiving relief from the cities of La Paz and
Arequipa. First, because all I needed to attend to their own needs and defense, and second, by
refusing entirely to lend its mayor, D. Baltazar Senmanat.

Finally free of all garrison and neighborhood of the town of Puno on the day May 24, 1781, and
the glory that they were spectators of their resistance, the troops of the viceroyalty of Lima,
field to a mile away, it remains to choose the means for their preservation and safety. I thought
the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, follow the marches with the army of knob to the
other provinces who were rebellious in the jurisdiction of Buenos Aires, sugetarlas and relieve
the city of La Paz, which on this occasion had learned the besieged a considerable number of rebels,
led by Julian Apas Catari Tupac, but many very poderosass reasons keep you from doing this
project, being among the most powerful considerable desertion of his troops was increasing
every day, but they knew a certain freedom as not to fall into enemy hands, or savior, providing
hereby discretion to swell his forces with weapons that are seized; evils which had increased
considerably after it was disclosed he had to remove them more from
their homes, and expose not only to new dangers, but also to the rigors
of a the most painful season of the year, and by the excessive frosts
and by the sterility of fields for the survival of mules and horses.

Determined in such a critical situation together all army chiefs to hear their opinions, considering
that their strength had been reduced to 1,100 men of arms between guns and lances, and 450 Indians
on the board and made all suitable reflection, felt their voice agreement will answer immediately verify
removal to the city of Cuzco, because otherwise lost foolproof troops and weapons that were,
without few remaining, fans of the glory of the Sovereign, the they submit a further appeal
to perish in vain at the hands of the rebels. Well thought However, with maturity and reflection,
who asked the circumstances of the case, he joined his-Chief the conclusions to the other,
and resolved the retreat to Cuzco, which announced to the troops held with many cheers, and after
seeing it was learned that this order will be dilated, had agreed to drop that night 30 soldiers
militants with 150 Indian allies.

Made this determination, did the call to D. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, and for fter that
the state in which they were the provinces bordering with the city of Peace, as you said, if
conceived it could keep on, the town of Puno the help of 100 riflemen, which was all I could
leave, but the gallantry and courage commander, playing in his garrison the same defects that
had caused the prodigious diminution of that army, and that they would be free of those 100 men who
offered him, said they attended and well thought out the difficulties encountered, and fermentation
they were in immediate those provinces, graduating impossible conservation and livelihood Puno with
only one reinforcement, or at least he is not responsible for the continuation to of his defense
and considering the other hand the General D. José del Valle could not dismember but the number
of its troops to respond to emergencies that could happen in the withdrawal who had determined,
he found it hard to resolve and need to send the abandonment of that people who for so long
had frustrated all efforts made to espugnarle rebels; and consequent to this were given orders
to come out the garrison and neighborhood, giving three days of time to evacuate: minor term
that still later, reduced to two only.

This determination in the extreme consternation of neighbors, and not a little to Orellana,
who felt view reduced to such a wretched state, after having established their continued loyalty
to both Sovereign, with the suffering of countless calamities and work for the preservation
and defense of that town, which was abandoned the day May 26, 1781, with a general feeling of
how she had benefited from other provinces, and so these as the natural left abandoned their homes
all the furniture in the state that possessed because they were not may lead, owing to the great
shortage of baggage they had. Came close to 5.000 people of both sexes and all ages, the most on
foot and without Auxillia to monitor progress: pitiful sight that cruelly Heria in the heart of
Orellana, without discretion to do less painful, to which there were the difficulties of driving
the wounded who could not leave, because it inevitably would have been a victim of the rebels. The
garrison consisted of 136 rifle, 440 spearmen to foot, 64 artillery, 308 cavalry, 104 slingers,
and 1346 Indians of the same species, collected and from villages that had been kept faithful.
Orellana commanded before leaving the town of Puno, nailing all the guns, and buried in deep wells, because
they had no discretion or convenience for removal by the lack mules, and to prevent them from taking
over the rebels. He devoted all his care after to make suitable provision for his people was gathered
in the march with the troops de Lima, and even did it in part, failed to order and precision anyone
who wanted Major General D. José del Valle, for each occupied in the care and driving of his
family, too much of the training astray, and so it was impossible camps adhere to the dimensions
required by regulations for such military cases, it was so much embarrassment to watch, the growing
number of families which led. Some conceive best way to survive in Arequipa, went to the city, but
most would not deviate from their Commander Orellana, the honorable purpose of sacrifice for
the service of the Sovereign, in transactions that were undertaken subsequently against the rebels.

Marches
followed the Commanding General, heading straight to Cuzco, in relics its army garrison and Puno
neighborhood, and the center of so many troubles, had the relief to get some flour, coca and rice
and other supplies had been sent Orellana to seek to Arequipa, to the subsistence of the garrison:
relief distributed among all minor shortages of supplies to experiments. To the capital of anything
uncomfortable Lampa rebels, but since she began to feel and effects of the withdrawal, because
divided in many small divisions, is allowed to see placed on the heights immediately to the road
to benefit from these oversights, and load up the sides of the army and rear, killing cruelly
to those who are detained or astray.

In this conformity and untold work followed by a country enemy troops, not only destitute,
but also completely deserted. Transit through the Ventilla, near the town of Pucara, Puno
the unfortunate neighbors who came on foot, took the right path for Ayabirí. The enemy laid
them, warning they were separated and defenseless, and managed egercer their accustomed cruelties
on them killing many men, women and children, and seizing also of most of their poor luggage,
thus continuing in the withdrawal itching to Vilcanota end of the viceroyalty of Buenos Aires,
near which attacked to ours with so much courage, and with an air of confidence that at least
thought to get the advantage of becoming owners of cattle and baggage, but as it moved from
1.000, it was easy reject and frustrate his designs.

Fter writing again and D. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, the Inspector D. José del Valle, from Yanarico,
as it seemed appropriate on the need that had to repopulate and maintain the town of Puno,
whose response was in the town of Quiquijana, full of pitiful considerations by leaving the situation
in the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires, and the disastrous consequences could result from the abandonment
of that people, whose attention was ordered to suspend progress with all the families extracted,
in order to put them back in a better ratio as soon as possible to his home, where the Viceroy of
Lima approve it: but reproducible Orellana some serious thoughts that occurred to him again, for
being so far ahead, ordered him to remain at the city of Cuzco with everyone who was driving,
where every man is assign it any relief that serves their livelihoods,
to make the situation less painful unfortunate that they were, as
indeed was observed, considering them a daily moderate gratification
so they could stay.

In the Sichuan people found the Inspector D. José del Valle to Major General D. Francisco Cuellar,
who as stated in their place, he had stressed to the province of Carabaya to to pursue and kindle
the traitor Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, his nephews and how to accompanied him. The rebels had
so carefully closed communication, which in any as long as this official was kept separate, only
came into the hands of the General a letter from him in saying to him had not received any
notice of the status and situation in which he was the army which was not strange, considering the
cruelty of the rebels, who in the village Santiago de Pupuja had arrested a self addressed to
him, and he had cut the ear, nose and hands, whose inhuman punishment,
immediately reported in that province had intimidated to such extremes
to all its inhabitants, that none wanted to be agreed carry a letter,
but being offered large sums for this hearing.

So that to this occasion could not tell D. José del Valle success of the active measures of this
officer, all fruitless, because the main rebels chose the extraordinary journeys and lost, and with
a higher proportion of hidden surveillance to the persecuted. Had on their way and take four glorious actions,
which defeated the insurgents, causing and raised serious damage, and proving themselves in all
their military skill, and the most constant desire to sacrifice for the service of the sovereign.

Since
becoming the military line that divides the two vice-royalties, was the defection of the troops
militia, and the Indian subsidiary of Anta and Chincheros, so exorbitant, that came D. José
del Valle reasonable grounds to suspect to abandon it entirely in the elderly risks, because
they no longer stimulated the greed of plunder that had stopped in part until then. But overcome
many obstacles, hardships and work, as it befell during that retreat, came to the city of Cuzco,
the day July 3, 1781, with the few troops that were left, diligence could not verify the neighborhood
Orellana Puno, convoys through 5 thereof, and by the arrest he had
made, as have been obliged to follow a slower start, owing to the
difficulties that occurred, little comfort and the proportions of
families who followed him.


And a horse race, don't they love it? Wouldn't they give their souls almost--and they do often
enough--for a real flyer, a thoroughbred, able to run away from everything in a country race.
The horse is a fatal animal to us natives, and many a man's ruin starts from a bit of horse-flesh
not honestly come by.

But our racing ain't going forward, and the day's passing fast. As I said, everybody was looking
at the horses--coming along with the rush of the thoroughbred when he's 'on his top' for condition;
his coat like satin, and his legs like iron. There were lots of the bush girls on horseback,
and among them I soon picked out Maddie Barnes. She was dressed in a handsome habit and hat.
How she'd had time to put them on since the wedding I couldn't make out, but women manage to
dress faster some times than others. She'd wasted no time anyhow.

She was mounted on a fine, tall, upstanding chestnut, and Joe Moreton was riding alongside
of her on a good-looking bay, togged out very superior also. Maddie was in one of her larking
humours, and gave Joe quite enough to do to keep time with her.

'I don't see my horse here yet,' she says to Joe, loud enough for me to hear; but she knew
enough not to talk to me or pretend to know me. 'I want to back him for a fiver. I hope that
old Jacob hasn't gone wrong.'

'What do you call your horse?' says Joe. 'I didn't know your father had one in this race.'

'No fear,' says Maddie; 'only this horse was exercised for a bit near our place. He's a regular
beauty, and there isn't a horse in this lot fit to see the way he goes.'

'Who does he belong to?' says Joe.

'That's a secret at present,' says she; 'but you'll know some day, when you're a bit older,
if you behave yourself. He's Mr. Jacob Benton's Darkie now, and you bet on him to the coat
on your back.'

'I'll see what I think of him first,' says Joe, who didn't fancy having a horse rammed down
his throat like that. 

Yet no sooner knew the Indians were camped at the hill, projecting the assault of city, was infused
in all her neighbors generous resolution to defend, even unto the last drop of blood, and because
they were the same courage and caution, winning moments outposts were placed to observe more closely
the movements of the enemy; cutting the streets with adobe walls, which are improperly called
trenches, stood out some companies of militia garrisoned for their walls. The Regent in a continuous
expedia agitation ruling on providence, and the Ministers, hiding the fear that dominated them with
zeal and love for the Sovereign, took charge of the companies formed Lawyers Guild, prowl
and patrol every night, recognizing the advanced sentries. But like all principles lacked the
art of war, served as confusion over security that its proceedings, which also contributed not a little
to create new disputes on its alleged powers, and those that had the Commander of the weapons.
Sin embargo all this, felt in neighboring supportive, but you have wanted lower later, bulking
mistrust to cover negligence, error and failure to attend and activity resolutely blind to the
source whence came these changes, being easy to understand, that if his principles had acted
with courage and determination that ask such cases, would have avoided such havoc, as followed,
and death more than 40,000 Spanish people, and much larger number of Indians who have been
victims of these civil dissensions.
 We were close by the winning post when they came past; they
had to go another time round.

The Sydney horses were first and second, the diggers' favourite third; but old Rainbow, lying
well up, was coming through the ruck hard held and looking full of running. They passed close
by us. What a sight it is to see a dozen blood horses in top condition come past you like a
flash of lightning! How their hoofs thunder on the level turf! How the jockeys' silk jackets
rustle in the wind they make! How muscle and sinew strain as they pretty near fly through the
air! No wonder us young fellows, and the girls too, feel it's worth a year of their lives to
go to a good race. Yes, and will to the world's end. 'O you darling Rainbow!' I heard Aileen
say. 'Are you going to win this race and triumph over all these grand horses? What a sight
it will be! I didn't think I could have cared for a race so much.'

It didn't seem hardly any time before they were half-way round again, and the struggle was
on, in good downright earnest. One of the Sydney horses began to shake his tail. The other
still kept the lead. Then the Turon favourite--a real game pebble of a little horse--began
to show up.

'Hotspur, Hotspur! No. Bronzewing has it--Bronzewing. It's Bronzewing's race. Turon for ever!'
the crowd kept yelling.

'Oh! look at Rainbow!' says Aileen. And just then, at the turn, old Jacob sat down on him. This was the man named hand. The giants, to thank for the increase of wages, working
as a desperate, attacking the earth with his spade, not breathing just between blows, and the
other unfortunates had to imitate him not to be outdone, maintained, with superhuman efforts,
the level of the partner who served as an incentive.

At night, exhausted with fatigue, entertained the hopes of the last ranch playing cards, or
humming. Don Paul had strictly forbidden them to read newspapers. His only Joy was on Saturday
when the evening came from the vineyard, Jerez way to go to Mass, as they said. Until Sunday
night with their families were delivering ajorros women, the part
of wages that they remained after paying the cost.

The priest showed his surprise to see that the tenants had been in Marchamalo being Sunday.

-
Because they are very good, father - said the foreman with an accent because they want much hypocrisy
.-- The Man, and was enough to tell them I from Don Pablo about the
party, the poor little pa will not go voluntarily stay home.

Dupont's voice calling to his illustrious friend Urizábal father caused him to abandon Foreman,
going to church, escorted by Mr. Paul and his family.

Mr. Fermin was then that his son was walking with Don Ramon, the head of the desktop, a path.
Spoke of the beauty of the vineyards. Marchamalo again be what in his time most famous, thanks
to the initiative of Don Pablo. Phylloxera had killed many strains which were the glory of the
house Dupont, but the current leader had planted on the slopes devastated
by the parasite American vine, an innovation not seen in Jerez, and
the famous property return to its former glory without fear of new
invasions.

For this was the party; so that the blessing of the Lord covered with their eternal hills Marchamalo
protection.

The head of the desk watching the waves excited by vineyards and burst into lyrical praise. He
was in charge of advertising the house, and his pen old journalist, intellectual expired, leaving
leaflets, brochures, reports, letters in the fourth page of the newspapers, touting the glory
of the wines of Jerez, and especially Dupont house, but in a pompous style, solemn, sung, which
did not actually guess if it was sincere or a joke that Don Ramón
was allowed with his boss and the public.

By reading, had no choice but to believe that the sherry was as indispensable as bread and those
who drank were not sentenced to death next.

- Mira, Fermín, my son - said with intonation speech .-- How beautiful vineyards! I feel proud to
lend my services to a household that owns Marchamalo. This is not in any nation, and when
I hear about the progress of French military power Germans or the
British naval pride, replied: "Okay, but where are these wines like
Sherry?

"Everything that is said of this wine is very pleasing to the eye, willingly to the nose, palate
and delight the repair of the stomach. Did not you think so? ...

Fermín nodded and smiled, as if guessing what was going to tell Don Ramon. He knew by heart periods
prospects oratorios of the house, valued by Don Paul as the most
glorious specimens of profane literature.

Whenever occasion was the old employee's repeated in a tone declamation, intoxicated with the savoring
of his own work.

- Wine, Fermin, is the universal drink par excellence, the healthiest of all that man used for nutrition
or pleasure. Is the drink that earned the honors of intoxication a god of paganism. Drink is
sung by Greek and Roman poets, the celebrated by painters, praised by doctors. In wine, the poet
finds inspiration the boldest soldier, the worker force, ill health. In wine enjoyment is the
man and joy and the old fortress. The wine excites the intellect, stirs the imagination, strengthens
the will, keeps energy. We can not explain the Greek heroes and their admirable poets, but
under the stimulus of the wines of Cyprus and Samos, and the company's license Roman is incomprehensible
to us without Falerno wines and Syracuse. We can only imagine the heroic resistance of the Aragonese
peasant at the site of Zaragoza, without rest and without food, seeing that, besides the admirable
moral power of his patriotism, had for their support porroncillo
physical with red wine ... But within that covers wine production
many countries, what amazing variety of classes and types, colors
and aromas, and how to highlight Sherry at the head of the aristocracy
of wine!

Do not you think the same, Fermin? Can not find is right and well said all I can think of ...?

He
nodded. Everything I had read many times in the introduction of vast catalog of the house,
a notebook with a view of the cellars of Dupont, and its many agencies, accompanied by the
history of the house and praise for his dishes, the masterpiece Don Ramon, the master gave
to customers and visitors with a white binder blue, the colors of
the Purísimas painted by Murillo.

- The wine of Jerez - continued
solemn tone Chief desktop - not an upstart, an article by the fickle
high fashion, her reputation is well seated by ancestry, not Drink
only pleasing, but it is irreplaceable therapeutic agent.

With the bottle of sherry received the friend in England, with the bottle of sherry it is donated
to the recovering Scandinavian countries and India restored to the English soldiers his forces
depleted by fever. The sailors with Jerez combat scurvy, and the saints missionaries have reduced
with him in Australia in cases of anemia caused by weather and the suffering ... How, gentlemen,
not to perform such wonders a good sherry and genuine source? In it are legitimate and natural
alcohol wine with salts that are proper; astringent tannin and ethers stimulant, causing your
appetite for nutrition body, and sleep for restoration. It is both a stimulant and a sedative,
excellent conditions are not met in any product, at the same time is at Sherry, pleasing to
the palate and the eye.

Ramon paused for a moment to catch his breath and recreate in the echo of his eloquence, but immediately
went on, looking fixedly Fermín, as if it were a difficult foe convincing:

- Unfortunately, many people believe sherry taste when they drink unclean sophistication. In
London, under the name of Jerez, heterogeneous liquids are sold. We can not compromise with
this lie, gentlemen.

Sherry is like gold. We admit that gold is pure, middle-or low-grade, but we can not admit that gold
is called double. Only Giving sherry wine sherry vineyards, and aged that recreated with their
stockholders and they export, under the honest firm, unblemished credit houses, such as Dupont
Brothers. No house can be compared with it: it covers all branches; cultivated the vine and
develops the must; stored and aged the wine itself is dedicated to the export and sale, and also distilled
grape, producing its famous cognac. Its history spans nearly a century and a half. The Dupont
are a dynasty, their strength does not support assistants or associates, plant vines in its
own grounds, and strains have been born before Dupont nurseries. The grapes are pressed on Dupont
wineries, and the barrels in fermenting wine is made by Dupont. In warehouses Dupont is aged
and aged the wine under the supervision of a Dupont, and Dupont encasca and exported without the
intervention of other interested parties. Wherefore, Dupont legitimate wines in security that
is the house that preserves, pure and genuine.

Fermín laugh listening to his boss, exhaust released from the fragments of prospectuses and claims,
she kept in her memory.

- But Don Ramón! If I did not buy or carry a bottle!

... If I'm home!

The head of the desk seemed to wake from his nightmare speech, and laughed just as his subordinate.

-
Maybe you've read in the publications of the house much of this, but agree with me that it is
not bad. Furthermore - continued ironically - the great men live
under the weight of our greatness and how we can not leave it, we
repeat.

He looked at the areas covered by vines, and continued in a tone of sincere joy

- I am glad that American vines have been replanted with the large
gaps left by the phylloxera.

I advised him many times to Don Pablo.

So soon will increase production, and businesses that go wrong, will go even better. Now you can
return whenever the pest: for this will pass.

Fermin made a gesture which invited confidence.

- Frankly, Don Ramon, who do you think is more? "In the American vine, or blessings that parent
strains were cast? ...

Don Ramón stared at the girl as if to look in his eyes.

- Little boy! Boy! - Said sternly.

After the light turned around with some alarm, and continued in a low voice as if strains could
hear:

- You know me: I treat you with confidence because you are unable to walk with murmurs and because
I've seen the world and has desasnado abroad. What do I come with questions? You know I keep
silent and let things roll. I have no right to more. Dupont house is my refuge, if come out of
it, would have to return with all my offspring to the desperate poverty of Madrid. I here as
a drifter who is resting and make good what they give, not allowing criticize their benefactors.

The
memory of the past, with its illusions and its displays of independence,
aroused in him a blush.

To reassure himself wanted to explain the radical change in his life.

- I retired, Fermin, and no regrets. There are still many who were my companions miseries and
passions, which remain faithful to the past with a result that is stubbornness. But they are
born heroes and I am only a man who thinks eating as the first function of life ... Also, I got
tired of writing for the glory and ideas, sweat for others and live in perpetual poverty. One
day I said I can only work to be big man or for food. And because he was convinced that the
world could not feel the slightest emotion for my retirement, and had come to learn that I am,
I collected I titled ideal gear, I decided to eat, and making certain drums given by me in the
papers to the house Dupont, I got into it forever, and I can not complain.

Don Ramon thought he saw in the eyes of some reluctance by Fermín cynicism expressing and he
hastened to add:

- I am who I am, boy. If I scratch it, appears to be. Believe me, that bites apple fatal speaking
these gentlemen friends of our principal, not ever remove the like lips. Envelope changes
to stay alive, but of soul ever! Which question once, and reason and criticism, no longer believes
that sincere devotees as ever, believes it advised him the reason, or because they impose
their convenience. So when you see one, like me, talk about faith and belief, tell lies because
for you, or to deceive himself to provided some reassurance ... Fermin, my son, the bread I
did not win gently, but at the cost of baseness of soul, give me shame. I, who in my time was of
pride and virtue spiked hedgehog ... But I think his back to my daughters, who want to eat and
dress and everything else that is needed to catch a husband, and while this is not even this I
keep stealing.

Don Ramon thought he saw his friend again in a gesture of sympathy.

- Despréciame all you want: young people do not understand certain things can be pure, so that
your people suffer more than ... In addition, boy, I'm not sorry of what they call my apostasy.
I am a disappointed ... "Sacrifice for this people? For the worth! ... I spent half my life
waiting raging hunger and loose. Come on, tell me, When has really lifted this country? When
we had a revolution? ... The only really was the year 8, and if the country rebelled was because
he had kidnapped a few princes and infants who were born dumb and evil by hereditary instinct;
and the popular beast shed his blood so they could return these gentlemen, who appreciated many
sacrifices to send some to prison and others to the gallows. Famous people! Anda and Sacrifice
expecting something from him ... After that there have been revolutions, all statements have been army
mutinies by the personal antagonism thrive or, if something was served
indirectly, to seize them currents of opinion.

And now the generals and do not rise, because they have everything they want, and care at
the top of flatter, chastened by history, the revolution is over! Those who work for it and become
fatigued sudan both succeed or bring forth out of water in baskets
... Greetings to the heroes from my door retirement!

... but do not give any step to accompany them. I do not belong to his glorious class; poultry'm
quiet and well primed, and I regret it when I see my old Comrade Fernando Salvatierra, your father's
crony, winter clothing in summer and Summer in winter, eating bread
and cheese, with a cell reserved in all prisons Peninsula and molested
at every step by monitoring ... Very nice, the newspapers published
the hero's name, maybe the story comes to talking about it, but I
prefer my table the desk, my chair, which makes me think of the canons
in the choir together, and generosity Don Paul, who is splendid as
a prince who know take the air.

Fermin, bothered by the ironic tone with which he won, satisfied with
his servants, spoke of Salvatierra, was to answer, when the top of
the imperious voice rang esplanade Dupont and heavy claps of people
calling his foreman.

The campaign launched in space on the third touch. Mass was to begin. Don Pablo, from the steps
of the chapel, covered in a look at all his flock and entered it
in haste because he wanted to help people build mass.

The crowd of
workers filled the chapel, remaining all standing, with a surly gesture
I did lose Dupont, at times, all hope that people are grateful that
the care they had with their souls.

Near the altar, sitting on red
chairs, were the ladies of the family, and behind relatives and employees.
The altar was decorated with mountain herbs and flowers in the greenhouse
Hotel of Dupont. The acrid scent of wild bouquets, mingled with the
smell of tired, sweaty flesh exhaled crowding of the laborers.

Yes, almost incredible as it may seem to our readers and persons at a distance imperfectly
acquainted with exceptional phases of colonial life, the robber chief (and, for all we know,
more than one of his aides-de-camp) was among us, foremost among the betting men, the observed
of all observers in the grand stand, where, with those popular country gentlemen, the Messrs.
Dawson, he cheered the winners in the two great races, both of which, with demoniac luck, he
had backed heavily.

We narrate as a plain, unvarnished truth that this accomplished and semi-historical personage
raced a horse of his own, which turns out now to have been the famous Rainbow, an animal of
such marvellous speed, courage, and endurance that as many legends are current about him as
of Dick Turpin's well-known steed. He attended the marriage, in St. Matthew's Church, of Miss
Isabel Barnes, the daughter of our respected neighbour, Mr. Jonathan Barnes, when he presented
the bride with a costly and beautiful diamond ring, completing the round of his vagaries by
dining on invitation with the Commissioner at the camp mess, and, with that high official,
honouring our race ball with his presence, and sunning himself in the smiles of our fairest
maidens.

We are afraid that we shall have exhausted the fund of human credulity, and added a fresh and
original chapter to those tales of mystery and imagination of which the late Edgar Allan Poe
was so masterly a delineator.

More familiarly rendered, it seems that the fascinating Captain Starlight--"as mild a mannered
man" (like Lambre) "as ever scuttled a ship or cut a throat," presented himself opportunely
at one of the mountain hostelries, to the notice of our good-hearted squires of Wideview, Messrs.
William and John Dawson. One of their wheelers lay at the point of death--a horse of great
value--when the agreeable stranger suggested a remedy which effected a sudden cure.

With all their generous instincts stirred, the Messrs. Dawson invited the gentleman to take
a seat in their well-appointed drag. He introduced himself as Mr. Lascelles, holding a commission
in an Indian regiment of Irregular Horse, and now on leave, travelling chiefly for health.

Just sufficiently sunburned, perfect in manner, full of information, humorous and original
in conversation, and with all the "prestige" of the unknown, small wonder that "The Captain"
was regarded as a prize, socially considered, and introduced right and left. Ha! ha! What a
most excellent jest, albeit rather keen, as far as Sir Ferdinand is concerned! We shall never,
never cease to recall the humorous side of the whole affair. Why, we ourselves, our august
editorial self, actually had a bet in the stand with the audacious pretender, and won it, too.
Did he pay up? Of course he did. A "pony", to wit, and on the nail. He does nothing by halves,
"notre capitaine". We have been less promptly reimbursed, indeed, not paid at all, by gentlemen
boasting a fairer record. How graciously he smiled and bowed as, with his primrose kid gloves,
he disengaged the two tenners and a five-pound note from his well-filled receptacle.

The last time we had seen him was in the dock at Nomah, being tried in the great cattle case,
that "cause celebre". To do him justice, he was quite as cool and unconcerned there, and looked
as if he was doing the amateur casual business without ulterior liabilities.

It is in the interests of justice, doubtless, that thou be hunted down, and expiate by death-doom
the crimes which thou and thy myrmidons have committed against society in the sight of God
and man. But we cannot, for the life of us, take a keen interest in thy capture. We owe thee
much, Starlight; many a slashing leader, many a spicy paragraph, many a stately reflection
on contemporary morals hast thou furnished us with. Shall we haste to the slaughter of the
rarest bird--golden ovaried? We trow not. Get thee to the wilderness, and repent thee of thy
sins. Worse still Quando
me wonder if it was produced by Brahma Vishnu, or if both are eternal. God is my witness,
I do not know, and it is easy to see in my answers. Reverend father, I say, explain to me as the
bad floods the whole earth. I'm so far ahead as I do this question: sometimes I say that everything
is most perfect, but those who have lost their flow and its members in the war do not want
to believe, I do, and go back to my house overwhelmed with my curiosity and my ignorance.
 'Blest if I can make head
or tail of it. Half what them fellows puts down is regular rot. Why couldn't he have cut it
a bit shorter, too?'

Chapter 44

'The "Banner" comes next,' says Starlight, tearing it open. 'We shall have something short
and sweet after the "Star". How's this?

                               STARLIGHT AGAIN.

This mercurial brigand, it would appear, has paid Turon another visit, but, with the exception
of what may be considered the legalised robbery of the betting ring, has not levied contributions.
Rather the other way, indeed. A hasty note for Mr. Dawson, whom he had tricked into temporary
association by adopting one of the disguises he can so wonderfully assume, requested that gentleman
to receive the Handicap Stakes, won by his horse, Darkie, alias Rainbow, and to hand them over
to the treasurer of the Turon Hospital, which was accordingly done.

Sir Ferdinand and the police had been decoyed away previously nearly 100 miles by false intelligence
as to Moran and his gang. Our town and treasure were thus left undefended for forty-eight hours,
while a daring criminal and his associates mingled unsuspected with all classes. We have always
regarded the present system--facetiously called police protection--as a farce. This latter
fiasco will probably confirm the idea with the public at large. We, unlike a contemporary,
have no morbid sympathy with crime--embroidered or otherwise; our wishes, as loyal subjects,
are confined to a short shrift and a high gallows for all who dare to obstruct the Queen's
highway.'

'That's easy to understand, barrin' a word here and there,' says father, taking his pipe out
of his mouth and laying it down; 'that's the way they used to talk to us in the old days. Dashed
if I don't think it's the best way after all. You know where you are. The rest's flummery.
All on us as takes to the cross does it with our eyes open, and deserves all we gets.'

'I'm afraid you're right, governor; but why didn't these moral ideas occur to you, for instance,
and others earlier in life?'

'Why?' says father, getting up and glaring with his eyes, 'because I was a blind, ignorant
dog when I was young, as had never been taught nothing, and knowed nothing, not so much as
him there' (pointing to Crib), 'for he knows what his business is, and I didn't. I was thrashed
and starved, locked up in a gaol, chained and flogged after that, and half the time for doing
what I didn't know was wrong, and couldn't know more than one of them four-year-old colts out
there that knocks his head agin the yard when he's roped, and falls backards and breaks his
neck if he ain't watched. Sent extraordinary new Commander of the Peace, asking some Relief of people,
weapons and military equipment with which to securely hold their resolution but only got her answer,
considering that they had not yet come into his hands awaiting instructions, I could not get out
of that city, or provide other species relief that they will be assisted by the neighboring provinces,
or retire in the most convenient, if your tasks are not sufficient to maintain the province
and honor Sovereign's arms.

Then found myself Lampa immediate provinces, and Carabaya Azangaro involved in painful confusion,
the rioting, robbery and death, who committed them José commissioners Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, treating
them with unprecedented cruelty, and using whatever means they dictated his tyranny to swell
his party, not only recruiting the Indians, but also collecting livestock for their livelihoods, and
usurping the royal tribute, as your order egecutaba D. Pacoricona Blas, chief of the village
of Calapuja, to reinforce the army of the tyrant that was on the city of Cuzco. Also made sure
the other hand, these same commissioners tried to attack the town of Puno, and continue to the
espugnacion the immediate Chucuito, to seize more than 300 quintals of quicksilver, which
had in those royal coffers to promote immediate minerals. All these circumstances waving Orellana's
heart, but at the same time he stated in his determination, eager prevent such unfortunate and
extraordinary evil. Full therefore these thoughts, and love and zeal for the interests of
SM, did not hesitate to sacrifice in their service. With this plan delivered the orders to get
ready all his people, even some from other provinces, who sought safety under the cover of
his, and after the magazine found was all forces in 130 rifle, 390 spearmen on foot, and 140 cavalry,
84 armed men with swords and 80 only with sticks and slingshots, which made up the total of 824
men.

Verified these first steps, and complete the number of spears that had mandated in the same province,
and also prepared the other things that seemed essential followed the prudent conduct of joining
all those who composed the main part but militias, and to the priests and priests, whom he said
his thoughts out in search the traitors who raided the provinces and particularly the immediate
Lampa. Gave them News of weapons, ammunition and troops and militia who had at his command, representóles
the benefits and advantages that could be expected for the receipt of that province, and recovery
others, if Heaven deign to bless and prosper their healthy intentions, and concluded begging give him
their opinion, and you represent all the problems that they considered fair, to vary it if it was
accurate. All compliant and willingly acceded to his ideas and approved the determination that
they had said, offering to sacrifice their lives in the just defense of the fatherland, for
which, taking advantage of good disposition in which all were out to war, gave orders for
the march, and in spite of the discomfort station that offered rigorous water, checked out of
the town of Puno, on the day February 7, 1781, without stopping in the river floods, which opposed
short no difficulties his step the following day, between the towns of Paucarcolla Caracoto,
in which post ended to be certified was true that the Commissioner of Tupac-Amaru roamed the villages,
divided into three pieces, and that the former was located near Saman, Taraco and Pusi. Since
then decided to go catch him, and followed their march to the river of Juliaca, who commanded the
cavalry wade across, intending to attack the rebels suddenly; but suspended, for having advised
the priest of Taraco, that the Indians were passing Saman river, which was about six leagues.
This notice is addressed him with 24 riflemen and 60 lancers, but when he had already been
rushed with the news that acquired I was in Juliaca. Without pausing a second ship sent the
few soldiers who had, and at two o'clock in the morning came to end up passing that river flowing,
and was immediately in search of enemies, who favored the dark of night, had withdrawn at a
greater distance. Walking followed five leagues, because the mules could not pass and horses, and
this line reached a piece of 52 rebels at 6 am, to whom summoned him to surrender Nicolas
Sanca cruel, with title of Colonel of Tupac-Amaru, caused those riots, but they responded
with insults, calling them rebels and rebels and then rushed furious: Dare they paid, leaving
everyone dead he undertook.

Among the papers that he found, had some original proceedings and testimony, which had fought
the traitor Tupac-Amaru, led to expedite the recruitment needed, that prevented the punishment
of the pastors and other clergy who opposed his orders: and also
found a letter from a mayor, who quoted the chief justice of the province
Azangaro, as the rebel, to stay together in Chingora, Andres Ingaricona,
also commissioned to gather the Indians of the peoples of Achay, Nicasio
and Calapuja all incorporated with the said Nicolas Sanca, rushed
troops to the body of Orellana, while passing the river of Juliaca:
novelty him back immediately for the rest of his troops had found
and crossed the river, and careful of that reunion, proposed hinder
any cost.

With this design, directed his march toward the town of Lampa by Calapuja, forcing him to go
this route the cries of a woman, who represented violence suffered many in that town, by a party of
300 Indians, governed by Ingaricona. But he practiced for more steps, then could not discover, or
the situation, nor the whereabouts of the Indian rebels, and decided to spend the night in
the plains of Surp, in whose camp was able to declare it a spy, sent to punish him after with some whipping,
who confessed were located at the top of the mountain, called Catacora. Without waiting for more
news, moved off to find the enemy, and he found little time occupied the eminence, flaunting
their flags, which fluttered ceaselessly accompanying demonstration of continuous shouting and
confused, but soon abandon that position, to climb to a more eminent, which was the bulk of its
troops.

Orellana searched in vain for the climb, because there was no sidewalk or any side that allowed
the access to the top of the mountain that had bet the enemy, whose difficulty is increased
with heavy rain and hail that experienced for some time. Knew the difficulty and was maintained
with some circumspection, until it was necessary to indulge the bodies of his troops, who asked to
effectively guide them to attack. In effect, divided their musketry in half, marching in different
directions, relying on the rocks to get closer to the rebels, with less risk of throwing stones
with obstinacy with slings. The riflemen and a few soldiers armed with swords, engaged combat,
and full of fire fighting, moving hastily to greater bravery, but few not to be confused and defeated
in the eminence of the crowd that awaited them.

Let them fall Orellana in action, and went in search of others to persuade them, representing
to the laudable example of his companions were not enough efforts to pawn, and wary of a unfortunate
accident with the approach of night, he had to play the withdrawal, which took place without
further loss of two men falling down. He had five serious injuries and many other slightly, and
the same Orellana received a blow of stone, which after to have broken the lower jaw, went to
hit you in the chest. The Indians had many wounded, 30 dead, with loss of some loads of little
consideration, and yet that was not achieved greater the advantage of us this day, took the
contrary the darkness of the night to go in search of Colonel Sanca, who after having abandoned
delivered to the flames the people of Lampa, came to camp with his people to some hills eminent
that is located just ½ mile from the field of Orellana.

With this news deemed useless and dangerous to continue their efforts, and determined to go back
to the Balza Juliaca, to serve not only to the insults that are brought against the province,
but also to maintain fidelity to the Indians of that village, and to those of Caracoto, Cabana
and others, who stood, even by the King. During the march was vehement indications chief of
the infidelity of Pacoricona that followed him, whom he seized and secured lead, and, having
halted in the vicinity of Chingora, warned that the summit discovered the Indian mountains
divided into two pieces, and the one going to the Balza Juliaca, inferred that tried to seize
them to cut off the retreat. To avoid this, set in motion, eager to attract them to a meeting
if they tried object, and approached the town of Coata, where I could find the number of Balza
was needed to move his troops and making them part of tilt at the
place where it fell the Indians retreated to eminence, where the strongman
who ruled asked the reason why the chief was driving Pacoricona prisoner,
being innocent, and then summoned secure his freedom, and given the
person of Orellana, because otherwise inevitably would experience
ruin.

They paid a few who left the asylum eminence, the boldness of his master, and following the proposed
idea, continued the march to camp in the plain of Ayaguacas, where they spent the night on the
arms, the care given the immediacy of the enemy.

The chief of Caracato, driven by their loyalty, said the order he had received the Indian Colonel Sanca,
to enlist the people of his village cut those Juliaca Rafts and Suches, which are enforceable
under severe penalties on behalf of the Inca, King and Lord of Peru that Orellana suspicion
of rebellious thought was none other than allowing him cut, and attack the town of Puno and
Chucuito to pass more freely into the city Pacajes Peace-forward reason why their march to
the vicinity of Coata, field edges River. And without losing time issued orders for 25 balza
condugesen Village Capachica, and stayed a day in this position and to rest his troops, as to know
the status of weapons: exercise due diligence, because the next day an Indian in that vicinity
warned that the enemies came marching, ready for the attack; as indeed was verified, and at noon
had already come down from the mountains, and came forward with an air to rush the field occupied
by our troops. Was advantageous, because the left was resting on the mighty river of Coata,
his right covered by a lake, and the back but did not allow a narrow peninsula formed by the
waters, whose input placed 25 men on horseback for the safety of the mules and cattle were and
locked in his room.

Recognized the rebel commanders, and Sanca Ingaricona so advantageous situation, and was raised
among them the dispute over whether it should or not take the attack: resistíalo the second
against the wishes and efforts of the first, I wanted stubbornly tackled, considering the small
number who opposed him, who believed even smaller than it really was, for having ordered the
infantry to sit down to await the moment of combat: disposal who certified the enemy in his opinion,
and was persuaded that the packages that were seen were baggage charges, placed that way to
serve as backup to the impulse of stones in their slings. Concerned the deception and Ingaricona
opinion, supported by a chief of the province of Carabaya, that they had built in the act
of the dispute, resolved to attack expecting victory, seizing weapons and ammunition for referral
to Tupac Amaru. With this attempt were approaching, and when they were immediate Some proposals were
made by Lieutenant peaceful healing of Nicasio, and ecclesiastical D. Manuel Salazar, persuaded
that those who surrendered their arms, take advantage of the pardon and general pardon, which
in the name of SM had been published, but they answered boldly by an Indian, who did not need
it, much less recognized and for their Sovereign King Spain, but only to their Inca, Tupac-Amaru,
and since then began to make some movements, and at four o'clock
in the afternoon was advancing in great haste to attack.

Formed a semi-circle, which ruled Ingaricona right side, Sanca left, and center the Carabaya
chief, which ended the dispute in favor of the first: but those who came to the Sanca orders
came warm, with great reluctance in combat; effects undoubtedly of the opposition he had expressed
his captain.

They began the attack by the 25 men guarding the acaballo to step up the rear, and inlet was
placed where the cattle were mutated and of course they tried to seize, attacks and strengthen
the efforts: so, it was also necessary to bend the resistance strengthen that position with
25 other men. In this situation was almost surrounded by people Orellana, and considering it
was time to attack the contrary, was formed in battle placing the musketry in the center. The spears,
swords and sticks, broken in half to the sides, supported by the little horse that was left, and
sending to fourth conversion by right and left half, rushed at once to the Indian Ingaricona and Sanca,
which were held for some time with tenacity, fighting bravely until the SANCO gave way, after
losing some men, and began a hurried flight, thrown into a deep stream, where some drowned, and
the rest followed the retreating with the greatest disorder, to avail of the neighboring mountains.
This accident gave rise to which the rebel troops that carried him to let him in their shameful
flight, and stir over the center and right of the enemy, commanded by Ingaricona, who fought
with the greatest obstinacy, to leave gracefully had held the opinion that their chief. But
the effort required winning piece that charged impetuously, had to give the order and record
the Orellana troops, who engaged in action, how many rebels were killed opposed, to that intimidated
by the gun fire continued, went on the run.

Victory was complete, and followed the reach to the mountains and hills, which sought to rely the counter
to save their lives, but death and horror followed everywhere in the field and left over 400 dead. Tended
the zeal of Salazar licensed to exhort to the dying, persuading them that in his last agony sweet
invoke the names of Jesus and Mary, but had to complain very much for your love at the sight
of the pertinacity with which breathe out. The action lasted two hours, and got the win, was
held with repeated shouts of Long live the King, and adding the comfort, that none of us had
Preco, whose particular benefit is attributed precisely to the Queen of the Purisima Concepcion,
whose image was placed in the main banner, and in the hearts of the soldiers, who devoted and
confident, imploring his assistance to maturity, because the rebel forces amounted to 5,000
fighters, not counting a large number of women, who stubbornly followed, and they were not useless,
because stones constantly driving to men, so that not lacking in the act of combat. Some paid
with his life fiercely, by more than Commander tried to stop it, persuading his soldiers do
not use the value object so weak, but rarely can contain the anger of the military, engaged
in monitoring enemy.

It reviews the next day weapons, and found some broken and many twisted by Indians have used
the precaution of covering with a very thick and hard leather for withstand the blows of the swords
and spears, and having explored the campaign for some items, did not see any rebel in all nearby,
it was inferred that they had walked all withdrawal night, as indeed, it was learned soon after,
were in the mountains of stay of Chingora. Orellana passed the river with these stories, with
the intention of cutting to them that Juliaca had led, but found none who opposed it, rather,
the Guaca Indian village and its surroundings, chastened, or frightened by the history function,
presented humbly asking forgiveness and general pardon of their lives and finances, they were
granted, of course, without inferring any prejudice, and continuing to march to Puno, went happily
in this village, after having remained in the twelve year days, and since then repeated to the
Sovereign Empress of Heaven solemn thanks for the careful protection that deigned to dispense weapons
of SM, as it was recognized first cause of this happiness.

Resent the Indians of the advantages enjoyed by those who followed the royal flags and in continuation
of their seditious ideas, did not fail diligently to collect all the forces they were possible,
to attempt to attack the town of Puno, and removed these impediments, bring their invasions freely
to the other provinces, and reach Oruro, which had declared openly rebel. Orellana carefully watched
his movements, and certified I could not resist the enemy in the campaign, determined to defend
within the village and wait for it to the enemy.

For this achievement, sent without delay to open pits, lift trenches in the positions most needed,
abastecióse of ammunition and mouth, possible shortages in which he was, and still considered
very inferior to the efforts the rebel forces had met the Governor of Chucuito, D. Ramon Moya who had
by this time returned to his province, to act in concert, offensive and defensively. Verified
this attempt, they were still were not enough to resist enemy, and determined to call for backup
to Commander and Board of City Real Estate of Peace, but only managed a consignment of 10,000
pesos, for the relief of troops was defeated on the fly, Indians and Larecaja Omasuyos. Confirmábanse
from day to day news, that a rebel army composed of 18,000 Indians and swollen for several items of Atuncolla,
Vilque and Totorani, was already in the town of Juliaca, a distance of only nine Puno leagues,
under the command of Lieutenant General mestizo, named Maverick, Ramon Ponce, and colonels,
Pedro Andres Bargas and Ingaricona, who left shed for all Spanish blood parties, without distinction
of sex or age, for those who have encouraged of them were victims of his cruelty and rage.
In fact the day March 10, 1730, at 11 am, occurred in the immediate stage with great clamor and
Puno din of drums and bugles, alternating with bursts of musketry,
to authorize new flags waved, while stretching out the crowd went
into the mountains, that surrounded the population, so they held a
estencion three leagues.

 Mr. Knightley
must have had some sort of notion of the hand; he was wonderful quick at picking up the points
of the game.

He said nothing, and looked as cool as you please, smoking his cigar as if he had nothing on
his mind and wanted a rest. The lady sat quite still and pale, but her beautiful eyes kept
wandering round from one to another, like some pretty creature caught in a trap. Dr. Schiller
found it hard lines on him to keep quiet all this time--he couldn't hold it in no longer.

'Good heafens!' he says, 'are you men, and will not say nodings when you haf such an ovver
as dis? Subbose you shood us all, what then? Will not the whole coundry rice and hund you down
like mat docks?'

'That won't make it any better for you, mate,' says Moran, with a grin. 'When you and he's
lying under that old tree outside, it'll make no odds to yer whether our rope's a long or a
short 'un.'

'Quite right, Moran,' says Mr. Knightley. 'Doctor, he has you there.'

Starlight moved a step or two over towards him, as if he was uncertain in his mind. Then he
says to Wall and Hulbert--

'See here, men; you've heard what Moran says, and what I think. Which are you going to do?
To help in a brutal, cowardly murder, and never be able to look a man in the face again, or
to take this money to-morrow?--a hundred and seventy each in notes, mind, and get away quietly--or
are you going to be led by Moran, and told what you are to do like children?'

'Oh come, Dan, let's take the stuff,' says Wall. 'I think it's good enough. What's the use
of being contrary? I think the Captain's right. He knows a dashed sight more than us.'

'He be hanged!' says Moran, with eyes glaring and the whole of his face working like a man
in a fit. 'He's no Captain of mine, and never was. I'll never stir from here till I have payment
in blood for Daly's life. We may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. I've sworn to have
that man's life to-night, and have it I will.'

'You'll have ours first, you bloodthirsty, murdering dog,' says Starlight; and, as he spoke,
he slipped his revolver into Mr. Knightley's hand, who covered Moran that moment. I drew mine,
too, and had Wall under aim. Starlight's repeating rifle was up like lightning.

Mrs. Knightley covered her eyes, the old woman screamed, and the doctor sat down on a chair
and puffed away at his meerschaum pipe.

'We're three to three, now,' says Starlight; 'you've only to move a finger and you're a dead
man. Wall and Hulbert can have a hand in it if they haven't had shooting enough for one evening.
Do your worst, you black-hearted brute! I've two minds to take you and run you in myself, if
it's only to give you a lesson in manners.'

Moran's face grew as black as an ironbark tree after a bush fire. He raised his revolver, and
in one second we should have been in the middle of a desperate hand-to-hand fight; and God
knows how it might have ended hadn't Hulbert struck up his arm, and spoke out like a man.

'It's no use, Dan, we won't stand it. You're a dashed fool and want to spoil everything for
a bit of temper. We'll take the notes and let Mrs. Knightley and the doctor clear out for Bathurst
if you'll say honour bright that you'll be at the Black Stump by to-morrow evening at five,
and won't give the police the office.'

Moran, slow and sulkily, put down his hand and glared round like a dingo with the dogs round
him--as if he didn't know which to snap at first. Then he looked at Mr. Knightley with a look
of hellish rage and spite that ten devils couldn't have improved upon, and, throwing himself
down on a chair, drank off half a tumbler of brandy.

'Settle it amongst yourselves, and be----to you,' he said. 'You're all agin me now; but, by----,
I'll be square with some of ye yet.'

It was all over now. Mr. Knightley took a match out of the silver match-box at his watch-chain,
and lit another cigar. I saw the tears trickling through Mrs. Knightley's fingers. Then she
turned away her head, and after a minute or two was as calm and quiet as ever.

'You know your way about the place, Wall,' says Mr. Knightley, as if he was in his own house,
just the same as usual; 'run up the horses, there's a good fellow; they're in the little horse
paddock. Mrs. Knightley's is a gray, and the doctor's is a mouse-coloured mare with a short
tail; you can't mistake them. The sooner they're off the sooner you'll handle the cash.'

Wall looked rather amused, but went out, and we heard him rattle off to go round the paddock.
The doctor went upstairs, and buckled on a long-necked pair of old-fashioned spurs, and Mrs.
Knightley walked away like a woman in a dream to her own room, and soon afterwards returned
in her riding-habit and hat.

I foraged about and found the side-saddle and bridle in the harness-room. Everything was in
tip-top order there--glass sides for keeping the dust off the four-in-hand harness and all
that kind of thing. All the bits and stirrup-irons like silver. There wasn't much time lost
in saddling-up, you bet!

We watched pretty close lest Moran should take a new fancy into his head, but he stuck to the
brandy bottle, and very soon put himself from fighting or anything else. I wasn't sorry to
see it. The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven fabric
by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female that
is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who has
for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies
that she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal
with priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society, and
not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends that estimated that cared for her,
and some of which, despite all his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting
favors those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the austere virtue,
but neither the sanctity prohibited. How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid
falling into the abyss, or tried to remove it after without demanding
in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn away,
but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate that such person
is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona arrives, therefore
the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there to assist it or to look for
it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the
aristocratic society that has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused
with the simplicity even in the thinking of fictional people and despised
material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years,
carefully educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means, industry or
resource to earn an honest living. It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music,
French, English, and hand work to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short,
it is worth two or three pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The
chasm is too note the strong author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such
a depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death or infamy. Ramona driven
by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible dilemma:
either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as the unhappy
Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is not missing,
his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt on the other end
of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin uglier, dirtier
and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural
order and reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender
in the torero someone to protect her brutally without requiring payment,
but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly.

They had notes for counters, and I could see, as I looked over every now and then, that each
man was doing all he knew to best the other. Sometimes one had the show; sometimes the other.
We got tired and had another smoke and turned in. The beds were snug and comfortable. Mr. Knightley
showed us where to go, and we wanted a good night's rest bad enough.

Just before I turned in I went up to the table. They looked as keen at it as if they'd just
began, and I heard Starlight say, 'I owe you a hundred now. I'll play you double or quits.'
So I left them to it. I could see they were not on for bed just then. Both men were cool enough,
but I could see that Starlight (and I'd never known him to touch a card before) was one of
those men that would never rise from the table as long as he had a shilling left, and would
stake everything he had in the world upon the turn of a card.

We all slept sound, but most of us were up at sunrise. It doesn't do for chaps in our line
to be caught napping, and the police might have got wind where we were at work. We had our
horses to look to, and to give a look round in a general way to see if things were right.

Starlight and Mr. Knightley didn't turn out, they took it easy, perhaps they'd been up later
than us; anyhow, they didn't show till breakfast, when they both made pretty fair time over
the eatables.

My word! it was a breakfast, though we'd got a bit tired waiting for it. The old cook had hashed
up the turkey; it was stunning, almost better than the day before. Then bacon and eggs, grilled
steak, fresh bread and butter, coffee and tea, watercresses. Really, I thought we never should
stop. It was lucky the police didn't come, or we shouldn't have done much in the fighting line,
or the runaway either. As it turned out, Sir Ferdinand wasn't so very far off the line, but
he took another road. He never had any luck somehow in following us up, though he had some
first-rate chances. Moran was off his feed, and wouldn't come in. He took a nip and walked
down to the creek. We were all glad enough to get shut of him.

After breakfast and a turn round the stables, blest if Starlight and Mr. Knightley didn't have
out the cards again, and at it they went as fresh and keen as ever. We didn't know what in
the world to do with ourselves till it was time to start to ride out to the Black Stump, where
we were to meet the doctor and collar the 500 Pounds. They didn't waste a minute of their time,
till about half-past twelve Starlight puts down his cards very gently, and says he--

'I'm afraid we have no more time to spare. I've enjoyed the play more than I have done anything
for years. I leave you 100 Pounds now in notes, and you must take my I O U for the balance.
What bank shall I pay it into?'

'The Australian,' says Mr. Knightley. 'At your convenience, of course.'

'Within a month,' says Starlight, bowing. 'And now a glass of wine and a biscuit, it's time
to be off.'

We had something as good, nearer the mark than that, and Moran sat down too, and played a good
knife and fork. He'd come to, after his booze, and was ready for any fresh villainy, as usual.
He didn't let on to be nasty, but he looked sulky enough, and I saw his eye fixed on Mr. Knightley
and Starlight now and then as if he'd have given a good deal to have had them where they hadn't
so many at their backs.

Chapter 46

We ate well and drank better still at the lunch, although we had such a regular tuck-out at
breakfast time. Mr. Knightley wouldn't hear of any of us shirking our liquor, and by the time
we'd done all hands were pretty well on. Moran himself began to look pleasant, or as good a
sample of it as I'd ever seen in him. I live a hundred leagues
from Persepolis, I say it has declared war, and I leave the point my family, and, as usual,
I will seek their fortune or death, because I have nothing to do. ? And your comrades, he said
Babuca, there are not more educated than you? No, 'said the officer, only our main Satraps
are those who know about it Fixo We cut their throats.

Introduxo Babuca was astonished with the generals, and hinted at its familiarity. At last he said
to one: The cause of the war twenty years has been plaguing Asia, comes originally a contest
of a eunuch in one of the wives of the great king of Persia, with an office the great king of
the Indies. We tried a right which was produced with a short difference triesimo Darice, and as both
the prime minister of India as the sustained with dignity nuestio the rights of their respective
love, ignited the minds, and went out to each side bell a million soldiers. Each year is necessary
to recruit these armies with four hundred thousand men. Grow deaths, fires, logging ruins,
suffering the universe, and follows the enemy. Our minister and the Indian protest very frequeencia
that moves them nothing but the happiness of the human lineage, and every protest a city is
destroyed, or ravage some provinces.

Having the other day spread the word that was going to make peace, gave the Indian general and
Persian battle all haste, which was bloody. Babuca saw all the errors and all the abominations
that were committed, and was witness to the machinations of the main satraps, who made quanto
was in his hand so that lost its general officers saw killed by his own troops, he saw soldiers
who had killed their comrades dying, by taking away some bloody rags, broken and covered in
filth, I enter the hospitals where the wounded had, perished almost all the inhuman neglect
of those who paid their weight in gold the king of Persia for relief. ? Are men these, exclaiming
Babuca, or are beasts? Ha, well I see that must be destroyed Persepolis.

Concerned with this idea way to the Indian camp, where, according to what he had predicted,
received him with much entertainment as that of the Persians, and which witnessed the same excesses
that had filled him with horror. Ha, ha, he said to himself, if he wants the angel Ituriel exterminate
the Persians, also have to exterminate the Indians the angel of the Indies. Having been informed
of quanto then more finely in both armies had happened, he knew actions magnanimous, generous
and humane, which astonished and enthralled him. Unexplained deaths, exclaimed,? as you can gather
so much elevation so clumsily and with so many virtues crime?

Declarose peace soon, and the leaders of both armies, which had only its interest actually shed
the blood of so many fellow beings, they went to seek his court award respectively, since none
had won the victory. Peace was celebrated in public writings announcing the kingdom of virtue
and happiness on earth. Thank God, he said Babuca; Persepolis will be the abode of the purest innocence,
and will not be destroyed, as they wanted damn those geniuses without further delay we see this
capital of Asia.

I reach this vast city by the old entrance, still mired in barbarism, and that inspired disgust
for his rough disarray. I felt all this portion of the time people who had built, that we must
confess, is qual regardless of the effort to exalt the former at
the expense of modern, that in all things the first tests are always
rough.

Then he put Babuca gentio a crowd of more pork quanto compound and more ugly both sexes can be
found, the qual entered all haste in a dark and gloomy room. The buzz continued, the movement felt,
and the money that some people in a dish casting, let him know I was in a public market, but when
he saw that many wives kneels, apparently looking at what they had in front, and indeed men aside,
I perceive that he was in a temple. Rough voices, Subalpine, out of tune and bargain they
made in the vault poorly articulated sounds resonate, like the voice of cerdudos animals in the
plains of La Mancha respond to curved and sharp instrument the flame. Tapabar ears, but then
had to cover his eyes and nostrils, when he saw entered into the temple a few uncouth with
shovels and hoes. They raised such a large stone threw a right hand and left hand land that gave
off a stench intolerable, put after a death in the hole they had made, and returned to lay the stone.
iCon burying these people, exclaimed Babuca, their dead in the same places where they worship
the divinity! icon that are paved with corpses their temples! I no longer fear the pestilential
ailments that afflict so frequeencia Persepolis, is capable of poisoning around the globe terraqueeo
rot so many dead and many live pressed together in one place. IHA, which is Persepolis dirty
people! Doubtless the angels want to destroy, to build another city more beautiful, and populated
with people more neat, and what better chant: Providence know what you do, do not get into take
his idea.

And the sun was approaching the middle of his career, and had Babuca to go to eat at the other
end Village, home of a lady who had given her husband a letter of recommendation that was an
officer in the army. He traveled thousands upon thousands of streets in Persepolis, saw other
temples well decorated, where more educated people attended, and where they heard a harmonica
music, repair public sources, although they made wonderful effect defective, was fresh and pleasant
Street trees, gardens, where we breathed the most delicious smells, and gathered Vian plants
of the most remote villages. Marveled to see magnificent bridges, as they were intended to
pass a stream without getting your feet wet wading is the four-fifths anus; step by wide streets
and magnificent, filled with palaces on either sidewalk, and entered Finally the lady's house with
a society of decent people waiting for him to eat. Was your home clean and well decorated, the
lady was a girl, beautiful, discreet and courteous, and society friendly, and it said Babuca one
another: no doubt he had lost the trial Ituriel angel, when wanted to destroy a city so fulfilled.
But very soon warned that the lady, who at first had asked him for his loving new husband, to
speak more lovingly food a boy wizard. Then he saw a judge before his own wife to a thousand
compliments to a widow, the qual with one hand clasped the neck of the magistrate, and gave the
other a young man very nice and modest. The first one up from the table was the wife of the
magistrate, is in a locked cabinet away to confer with his spiritual director, eloqueentisimo man, that
such power had to reason with her, he came back embarrassed face, wet eyes, his voice tremulous
and faltering steps.

Babuca then started to the apprehension of that was right Ituriel genius. With the dowry had
Granger confidence, he knew the secrets that very day the lady, will fio their qual affection
to the boy wizard, ensure that all houses would find the same Persepolis that had been hers.
Babuca inferred that such a society could not last, that all the houses were to be struck by
jealousy, revenge and feuds, which constantly had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had
to kill their husbands to processions their wives, or of being killed by them finally to very
well destroy Ituriel once an abandoned village to horrendous disorders.

After

eating was one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle a crowd of
both men and women who had gone there to kill time. Climbed a magician to a high machine and
pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided in several parts so it was not necessary
to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, no reason is exalted,
and came out sweating and breathless. Then people awoke, and believed that he had attended
an instruction. Babuca said: "This quanto good man has done has been for the hell of two or three
hundred citizens own, but his intention was good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.

Brought
him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was
celebrated every day of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner
part via a palace.

Were so beautiful spectacle most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps
arranged in order, at first believed Babuca that came down to this party. In brief dexaron be seen
in the vestibule of the palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language
was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity.
No one is sleeping, we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests
of general admiration and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations
of the kings, love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no
doubt were the preachers of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had
just heard, and even made purpose of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which
show similar you reconcile with Persepolis forever.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished
moral sublime.

Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor, where am
in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture,
he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me a child: I
am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse things in the city, Ituriel
had little reason to be so angry.

Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous. Brought
him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many
courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, let him
see his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the
merchant, for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten. While writing,
knocked on the door and entered the merchant who brought him to his pocket Babuca forsaken had
been forgotten on the counter. ? As possible, he said Babuca, so that you may be generous and
scrupulous, after having had face to sell your buxerias four much more than they're worth?
There throughout the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come
to bring the pocket, but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple
in value, you've been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this
is so true that if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and
there is more thing however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these
trifles, that same feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start,
a good car, and good horses. This craving is the one who gives life to the industry, and keeps
the fine taste circulation and abundance. The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive
than you the same trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire. Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time,
and then delete it from his book.

Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering
himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he
confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having taken a vow of
poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another vote humility. That said, I leave to
Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.

Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission
for reform. Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove
all others. If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended
to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed. Babuca Pasmabase that there is none
that by building the universe, did not want to be the referee. Then a man Presentosele I was
semi-magician, qual said to him: The great work is going to comply, and has returned to Zerdust
earth: therefore I request that you ampareis against the Grand Lama. ? With that against the pontiff
monarch replied Babuca, which lies in Tibet? - against the same .--? For what? you make him
war, and alistais against an army? - not that, but says that man is free, and we do not believe: we
write against the tomes do not read, and we've heard hardly mind, because we just condemn, as an
owner who sends remove caterpillars from their garden. Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who
profess the wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those
who preached humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons to Ituriel
to destroy all this race.

He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers
for recreation. Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey. They did not
ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their
own, but never to their peers, except the householder. If you said one is a saying acute baxaban
others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors. Were less cautious than mages
because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and
reputation of a great man. They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams.
Habiaseles Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate
an author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his
plays never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get
to be your guy. Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that
might suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests. Babuca believed
that very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.

Just pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned
them the character of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files
in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres
pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do
not know. Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
 The wild ducks swam and splashed in the little waterhole above the house. Two or
three of the cows were walking down to the creek, as quiet and peaceable as you please. There
was some poultry at the back, and the little garden was done up that nicely as it hadn't been
for many a day.

After I'd pretty well settled in my own mind that there was no one anext or anigh the old place,
I drew up by degrees, bit by bit, and sneaked across the creek. I was just making for the barn
when I saw two horsemen pop up sudden round the back of the house and ride towards the front
gate. I saw with half an eye they were Sir Ferdinand Morringer and a trooper.

Lucky for me they were looking up the gully instead of my way, and, though my heart nearly
stood still, I rode as hard as I could lick for the gate of the barn, which was betwixt me
and them. They never looked round. They were too much taken up with watching the spot where
Hagan and his lot were found. I had just time to chevy straight into the barn and pull off
my saddle and bridle and hide under the hay when they shifted full towards where I'd been and
then hung up their horses. The trooper tied his to a dead branch of a tree, and then went moving
about. I was mortally afraid of his stumbling against something and spoiling the whole affair.

It seems Sir Ferdinand had never given up the notion of our turning up at Rocky Flat some day
or other; so he used to take a turn himself that way every now and again on the chance, and
a very good chance it nearly turned out to be. Besides this, it seems since he'd heard of her
being at the ball at Turon he'd taken a great fancy to Aileen, and used to talk to her as much
as she'd let him, when she was at George Storefield's and any other place where he met her.
He wouldn't have had much chance of saying the second word, only he was a good-natured, amusing
sort, and always as respectful to her as if she'd been a lady. Besides, Aileen had a kind of
fancy that it might make things no worse for us if she was civil to him. Any way, she thought,
as women will do, that she might get something out of him perhaps once in a way that would
be of use to us. I don't believe as it would make a scrap of difference one way or the other.
And, like people who try to be too clever, she was pretty near being caught in her own trap
this time. Not that I blame the poor thing, she did all for the best, and would have given
the eyes out of her head, I believe, to have done us real good, and seen us clear of all our
troubles.

Well, she brings a chair out on the verandah, and Sir Ferdinand he sat down on a bench there
for half-an-hour, talking away and laughing, just as gentlemen will to pretty girls, no matter
who they are. And I could see Aileen look up and laugh now and then, pleased like. She couldn't
help it. And there was I stuck in the confounded barn among the straw all the time looking
out through one of the cracks and wondering if he was ever going to clear out. Sometimes I
thought the trooper, who was getting tired of dodging about doing nothing, couldn't be off
seeing my horse's tracks leading slap into the barn door. But he was thinking of something
else, or else wasn't much in the tracking line. Some men would see a whole army of fresh tracks,
as plain as print, right under their noses and wouldn't drop down to anything.

However, last of all I saw him unhitch his horse and take the bridle on his arm, and then Aileen
put on her hat and walked up to the top of the ridge along the stony track with him. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few robberies. They said, though against
all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are not
usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden lady, and very mild condition,
Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend father obsequiabanla Punalini and
Aconiti the reverend father, a religious congregation no longer exists, and put according to
both of giving me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned and excommunicated. Rome Dexe
very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was
for my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast
people, and they sold it very cheap to those who wanted to buy their
meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other
two pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful
weather stricken by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with violence,
and that was the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says
and does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and secondly
because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San
Patricio, astounded that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary,
though he hoped that it would take to put on the altars, so I had
a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it
can attain salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions,
the republic could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals.
Then sighing a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this
town is being so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable dogma
of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me. I however, until they reached the
fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a country
where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge covered
terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen, infants
and the princesses. In front of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return to
one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for those who can not be. Heard a
Spanish major these reckless words and I left side. I figured we
were going to see a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the
Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed the king and
the people. I'm making quite a
fortune by the butter lately. These diggings are wonderful places to send up the price of everything
we can grow.'

So she got out the frying-pan, and she and I and mother had some veal chops, with a slice or
two of bacon to give it a flavour. My word! they were good after a forty-mile ride, and we'd
had nothing but corned beef in the Hollow lately. Fresh butter and milk too; it was a treat.
We had cows enough at the Hollow, but we didn't bother ourselves milking; bread and beef and
tea, with a glass of grog now and then, was the general run of our grub.

We had a talk about the merry time at the Turon races, and Aileen laughed in spite of herself
at the thought of Starlight walking down the ballroom to be introduced to her, and being taken
up to all the swell people of the place. 'He looked grander than any of them, to my fancy,'
said she; 'and oh! what a cruel shame it seems that he should ever have done what keeps him
from going among his equals as he was born to do. Then I should never have seen him, I suppose,
and a thousand times better too. Given in the town of Tupiza, to March 20, 1781. "

JOSE Reseguin.

Produced this diligence, all favorable effects were expected, because with unspeakable diligence
were many Indian leaders, representing their people, to ensure Commander his most constant resolution
to remain loyal, so that in such a short time the province was entirely peaceful, and without the
immediate suspicion that waiting impatiently the arrival of the troops, to the same tests
and demonstrations of loyalty. Became to work the mines, and journeyed through the streets
and roads without care, he sent la Plata and Potosi the portmanteau of correspondence from the
public, who was arrested in Mojo, and everything went back to take the order after the rebels,
and after some arrangements governance and caution, Reseguin was moving again, the 5th of
April 1781, for the people of Santiago de Cotagaita, where he had done to advance to captain
Savoy infantry, D. Joaquin Salgado, with 50 men to hold that neighborhood, and encourage their militiamen
who had the glorious determination to stay loyal and counteract efforts and persuasions of the rebels,
whose heroic action becomes entitled to a perpetual memory.

Reseguin used only two days on the road, however the league is 18, and be undertaken a strong tertian,
whose accident suffered more than a third of the soldiers and nearly all the officers, neither
of which was an obstacle for him to stop immediately substantiate causes more than 80 inmates who were
in those prisons, learned at the outputs who had made those loyal militia, among whom were some major
heads the conspiracy of the province of Lipes, complicit in the death of their mayor, D. Francisco
Revilla, whom they examined and justified his crimes, was sentenced eleven to death penalty and
the other to prison. Among the first occurred suceoo has a lot of miraculous. One of them,
guilty of two deaths, and in the tumultuous confusion of the doctrine of Tatasi had taken
and abused his priest inside the church, with heavy blows, and several Sometimes he had put
the knife to slay his throat, was found dead the day had been verified in his person the last
ordeal, what part was given immediately Commander, who the evening before he had made the statement,
without notice you indisposition a: and believing that the accident was born of desperation or
some effect of neglect, sent you recognize, what egecutado, they found the arm and hand which
had committed sacrilege, completely emaciated to the bone, as if a skeleton of many years, and
the sleeve of his jacket full of worms: all that aware Reseguin, decided to crash by hanging
and the priest explain the numerous competition was present, the origin and the causes of
that wonder.

Criminal matters concluded, cared Reseguin meaning to the loyal inhabitants of Cotagaita This
would make the Sovereign his loyalty purge, and exhorted them to continue their good intentions,
thanking them on behalf of the King for his distinguished services: which accounted for those
neighbors, along with other Spanish Tupiza and who had delivered throughout the province with the
most expressive demonstration of respectful gratitude hailed their deliverer, and offering direct to
the Almighty the most solemn vows for the happiness of whom I had returned to the peaceful possession
of their former homes and farms. But fearing even those tensions, which had not yet convalesced the
terrifying horror that led in their hearts the ravages and cruelties of tyrants, I led a representation,
for it to stop, which is expressed as follows: -

Representation.

"Officials, residents and inhabitants of this province, and to consider fairly tax VS the sorry
state that have constituted the riots, murders and robberies of Indians some unknowns, have
been introduced in several parishes of this jurisdiction, shedding seditious letters, publishing
edicts and orders, on behalf of the principal rebel José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru: reaching the audacity
of these, to planting nooses in point Stencil, to execute on them to all that, as loyal subjects
and good servers of our legitimate sovereign, not adhere to the ideas of the head of rebellion,
which know at first sight, there are others who yearn for the subversion
of this kingdom, and placed violently in the possession of it.

"But even to the understanding of VS none of this is covered up, news of the patient being egecutar
next gear that meets at the city of La Plata, leaving the province, which is the rampart and
accurate entry of Peru, abandoned to the discretion esponse of the enemy, that minerals located
in the towns of Ubinas, Chocalla, Tatasi, Esmoraca, Santa Catalina, La Rinconada, Lipes and Atacama,
after having killed the judges and leading citizens of these peoples, remain vigilant, waiting
for VS to withdraw the troops under his command, to enter with fire and blood in this town and
elsewhere in the province, making victims rigor, we find it necessary, as good stewards and
faithful subjects of the King Our Lord, represent VS, which is their obligation to protect with
the arms of the sovereign is province, otherwise, the real incomes of tobacco, sales taxes and
e, are watched abandoned, its directors ESPONSE TO loss of life, or put to flight, as also all
loyal, who found without any defense, lack of weapons and ammunition necessary, to join the
army and come into season, we will need to abandon our beautiful homes and property, to preserve
life, however, that the zeal of honor of God, and defend the SM domains, we need to stand firm
containing the raids by the rebels, to lose the last drop of blood. But look at us defenseless and
natural right to preserve the life we ​​lead, not to separate us from the service of His Majesty,
and yes to leave the province, leaving refiners and work egercicio of mine, that it will benefit
both the royal treasury, and included in VS troop command, way to their destination, where
the most refiner give proof of our fidelity and love the Sovereign.

"The damage from VS to leave this province, it is his Majesty, for all events is well known as
the branch of taxes is lost annually more than 20.000 pesos, and the fifths and bouquets for
the work of gold and silver mines, up from 50.000 pesos: and regard to branch sales taxes, tobacco
revenue and emails, rather considerable amount pesos. So, so in the reimbursement of real estate,
as in that of individuals faithful to SM will be harmed by more than a million pesos annually,
and is not under consideration, the VS be aware that, should this be the transit, through which
the Mail Buenos Aires to Peru, and wherever located is conducted for the city of Buenos Aires,
and that all trade in the provinces of the earth: so that, this is the only accurate door to
intern all of Peru, because we also have to conduct of food aid to the streets of Potosi and
Chuquisaca, which abandoned this province, were under siege, completely exposed to starvation
to surrender to the enemy.

"The mind of His Excellency. Viceroy Lord must not persuade us that is precisely what VS present
in Chuquisaca, having first a need for greater attention to be remedied, because for these
cases, which are not prevented, we believe given the necessary powers to VS to operate according
to his wise knowledge and military skill had fit.

"Zeal for the honor of God, and worship of the holy religion we profess, is one of the VS items
that should fix the attention, it is noteworthy that the Indian rebels, unabashedly to the sacred
temples and ministers of Jesus Christ, to be thrown to the profanation intrepid of them, as
they have in that town egecutado Chocalla, slaying in the same Don Church Francisco Javier Carbonell,
and this in Tupiza, removing the corpse from the grave the mayor, and cut off his head, and in the
Tatasi seized the priest of that doctrine, and having him on his knees, threatened with a knife
his throat, until by dint of prayers and cries got to let him live, having summoned out of exile to
that doctrine formal, and do not administer the spiritual nourishment
to his parishioners.

"We as infallible immediately to his departure, more bitter the minds of the rebels, following
policies harmful to rise on command, subdue this province, and pregnancy all traffic from it: but
do not doubt that taken care of serious matters VS you need to stay in this province, until
further order of His Excellency. Viceroy Lord, stop the resolution of his motion, or at least
verify if, leave a detachment of troops veteran to guard this jurisdiction, with whose support it
will not be difficult, to the chiefs of this province, the military maintain the best foot,
obedience and service of the sovereign. But if you disregard our strong representation and
causes that we present, abandon, at any time will not be responsible to the King or God of the
loss of this province and abandonment of religion, leaving us with a transfer to this, if necessary
to the Sovereign and Lord Viceroy, which we have fulfilled our part that we are obliged and protest
to make VS responsible for all damages that you continue to SM to
abandon it, keeping it on the day under its protection.

"Our Lord preserve you many years. Tupiza, and March 17, 1781."

Antolin of Manuel de Montellano Chabarri .-- .-- .-- Santander José
Pedro Pizarro Leon .-- José de los Rios Dávalos .-- Peter Julian Calvete.
- Ramon Ignacio Burgos José Dávalos .-- .-- .-- José Alberto Puch
Aranibar .-- Felipe Martinez.

Commandant General D. José Reseguin.

Reseguin answered her verbally in the most benign and effective for comfort, and despite their
small number of troops, determined to leave D. Joaquin Soria, Lieutenant infantry regiment of Savoy,
accredited official spirit and conduct, with 25 veterans and Salta: detachment that seemed enough,
and to reassure them, to sustain The expedition, which had prepared those own militias entered
the province Lipes, with a view to prisoners to the main heads of this survey, free the wife of
the late mayor, who still held prisoner, dressed in their use, and in service one of the major
Indian and also to finally secure the peace of those natural disturbances whose hands were
given the province of Porco, which gave rise in Yora, drank and other towns, some restless
spirits, which gave no little care and disclose to the imperial villa of Potosi, that he was
often threatened with being overrun by those insurgents, whose fears were taking greater increase
for military incompetence natural and judicial robes in a Governor, who startled and precavia
more than what was necessary, to the threats directed at her daily rebels in order to keep continuous
allowance until the successful operations Reseguin all misgivings were calm, as it expresses
the same Governor D. Jorge Escobedo, in a letter dated April 9, 1781, in which Minister says
that: "I trust the quiet is restored in these places, because it seems expressed fear that
the first steps has given you: for yesterday, there were other letters that intercede for them
is asking for forgiveness, and drank at this hour may be imprisoned major. "These and other news,
it acquired the Commander assured him good state they were in that immediate and provinces, and
considering them as free from infection that they had introduced a measure of the rebels, determined
to set out the 11th of that month of April, without waiting for the departure of the expedition
of Lipes, by care later called their attention. But it did not take long to know, had had the happiest
success; fulfilled exactly as he had warned in the instructions Don left Antolin of Chabarri,
and whom she appointed Commander and militias Cotagaita Santiago, who led this operation correctly,
playing time all orders that are entrusted.

Reseguin continued marches, forcing allowed him as his weakness, and the many patients who had,
struggled to overcome the difficulties that befell him on this occasion, they were repeated
in all instances that made him sometimes D. Ignacio Flores, for to get closer to the Plata.
Traffic peoples took great pains to give further evidence Loyalty, welcomes you with the most
expressive shows that allowed them the unhappy constitution that had been shortly before. They had
arranged accommodation, the food ready and baggage requirements: be exceeded in the care of
the sick, went out to meet long Indian distance governors, with their second and curacas, with
dancing and music to use, to demonstrate the ease and complacency with which he received: so
that seemed not that country had been any alteration. These circumstances gave him the satisfaction
Silver reached the 19 day of that month, where he entered through the cheers a large village,
accompanied by that commander, and all the officers of militia and many people in the first
distinction, who had come to receive this small number men, covered with laurels, and immortal
glory, I could not delete the course time, nor obscure the dark shadows of envy.

The continued repeated warnings that he received on the way D. Cristoval Lopez, the gigantic
body that took the revolt in the provinces of the Sierra, I did rush gear he could, and being already
in the vicinity of Salta to the troops under his command, took orders Colonel D. Andres Mestre,
governor of Tucuman, so that with all the possible acceleration approaches, considering that 300
men of the militia of that government, intended to serve in Peru, had lost their obedience
to their commander and officers who maneater in search of him back home gift. And also because
I knew that the Indians Toba, allied with the vicinity of the city of Jujuy, trying to invade
and plunder.
 Many a good drink of cold milk we had
there in the summers that had passed away. Well, well, it's no use thinking of those sort of
things. They're dead and gone, like a lot of other things and people--like I shall be before
long, if it comes to that.

We had breakfast pretty comfortable and cheerful. Mother looked pleased and glad to see me
once more, and Aileen had got on her old face again, and was partly come round to her old ways.

After breakfast Aileen and I went into the garden and had a long talk over the plan we had
chalked out for getting away to Queensland. I got out a map Starlight had made and showed her
the way we were going to head, and why he thought it more likely to work than he had done before.
I was to make my way down the Macquarie and across by Duck Creek, George's station, Willaroon;
start from there with a mob of cattle to Queensland as drover or anything that would suit my book.

Jim was to get on to one of the Murray River boats at Swan Hill, and stick to her till he got
a chance to go up the Darling with an Adelaide boat to Bourke. He could get across from there
by Cunnamulla towards Rockhampton, and from there we were safe to find plenty of vessels bound
for the islands or San Francisco. We had hardly cared where, as far as that goes, as long as
we got clear away from our own country.

As soon as Jeanie got a word from Jim that he'd sailed and was clear of Australia, she'd write
up to Aileen, who was to go down to Melbourne, and take mother with her. They could stop with
Jeanie until they got a message from San Francisco to say he'd safely arrived there. After
that they could start by the first steamer. They'd have money enough to take their passages
and something handsome in cash when they got to land.

Aileen agreed to it all, but in a curious sort of way. 'It looked well,' she said, 'and might
be carried out, particularly as we were all going to work cautiously and with such a lot of
preparation.' Everything that she could do would be done, we might be sure; but though she
had prayed and sought aid from the Blessed Virgin and the saints--fasting and on her bare knees,
night after night--she had not been able to get one gleam of consolation. Everything looked
very dark, and she had a terrible feeling of anxiety and dread about the carrying it out. But
she didn't want to shake my courage, I could see; so she listened and smiled and cheered me
up a bit at the end, and I rode away, thinking there was a good show for us after all.

I got back to the Hollow right enough, and for once in a way it seemed as if the luck was on
our side. Maybe it was going to turn--who was to know? There had been men who had been as deep
in it as any of us that had got clean away to other countries and lived safe and comfortable
to the day of their death--didn't die so soon either--lived to a good round age, and had wives
and children round them that never knew but what they'd been as good as the best. That wouldn't
be our case; but still if we once were able to put the sea between us and our old life the
odds would be all in our favour instead of being a hundred to one that we weren't placed and
no takers.

Starlight was glad enough to see me back, and like everything he tackled, had been squaring
it all for our getting away with head and hand. We wanted to take everything with us that could
do us any good, naturally. Father and he had made it right with some one they knew at Turon
to take the gold and give them a price for it--not all it was worth, but something over three-fourths
value. The rest he was to keep for his share, for trouble and risk. There was some risk, no
doubt, in dealing with us, but all the gold that was bought in them days wasn't square, not
by a lot. But there was no way of swearing to it. Gold was gold, and once it was in the banks
it was lumped up with the rest. There was a lot of things to be thought of before we regularly
made a move for good and all; but when you make up your mind for a dart, it's wonderful how
things shape. We hadn't much trouble dividing the gold, and what cash there was we could whack
easy enough. There was the live stock that was running in the Hollow, of course. We couldn't
well take them with us, except a few of the horses. We made a deal at last with father for
them. He took my share and Starlight's, and paid us in cash out of his share of the notes.
All we wanted was a couple of horses each, one to carry a pack, one to ride.

As for dad, he told us out, plump and plain, that he wasn't going to shift. The Hollow was
good enough for him, and there he was going to stop. If Jim and I and Starlight chose to try
and make blank emigrants of ourselves, well and good. He didn't see as they'd have such a rosy
time getting over to these new townships on the other side. As you, he said to these gentlemen, the
short number of scholars who certainly kill anyone for money, I pray you tell me quale are your
occupations. Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher, measured lines, combined numbers, we
agree on two or three points that mean, and divided on two or three thousand who do not understand.
It occurred to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino atoms thinkers, to know about that they were
consistent. ? Far is, he said this, since the star Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together:
Thirty-two degrees and one-half .--? Quanto far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of
the earth .--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken if any thought, but all they told him that weighed
nine hundred times less the same volume of water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than
gold. Astonished the little elves urgently Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe
that those were magic ones to whom a quarter of an hour before the intelligence had been denied.

Micromegas
finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you
no doubt that you will know better yet what is inside: say they know
what is your soul and how are your ideas.

Philosophers spoke all at the same time, as before, but all were of a different opinion. I quote
the most ancient to Aristotle, one pronounce the name of Descartes, that the Malebranche, that
that of Leibnitz, Locke and the other. The old peripatetic he said with confidence: The soul is
a entelechia, a reason under the qual is power being what it is, so what Aristotle says expressly,
pag. 633 of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc. I do not understand the Greek, 'said the giant.
Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ? Well, that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that
Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand, "said the sage, it must include language
that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the
womb has received all the metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has
been refined to go to school and relearn what we knew so well and
never gonna know.

For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues, who could both remember when I was in
your soul the womb of your mother, if had to be so ignorant Quando were your man with a beard.
? Y you mean by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the discurridor, I have no idea none
of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know what is matter? That if you answered
man. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure, has three dimensions, and is serious and
divisible. That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing that you think divisible, serious
and dark, I'll say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone of these attributes you know?
No, he said the other. Then you do not know that something is the matter.

Addressing Mr. Micromegas then another wise beyond his thumb had, asked who was his soul, and
he was doing.

Any thing, "replied the philosopher Malebranche; It is God who does everything for me, I see
it in everything I do in everything, and the one who all cooperation does not mine. Both mating
does not exist, "replied the philosopher of Sirius. ? And you, friend told him to Leibniz who
were there, you say? ? That is your soul?
 If we're to do the swell business we'd better do it apart, or else put an advertisement
into the "Turon Star" that Starlight, Marston, and Co. are giving up business and going to
leave the district, all accounts owing to be sent in by a certain date.'

'A first-rate idea,' says he. 'I'm dashed if I don't do it. There's nothing like making one's
exit in good form. How savage Morringer will be! Thank you for the hint, Dick.'

There was no use talking to him when he got into this sort of humour. Maybe
it would have had to give his fearless advocate Segurola, but had appeared Reseguin, who came to
his assistance with 5.000 men, full of enthusiasm for a victory that ended reporting in Yaco.

Many
jobs had ridden to this indefatigable officer, who for the first
time since his exit Montevideo, was forced to interrupt their work.

Although there was no recovering from a serious disease that he had assaulted, when it comes to
the news of a peace force that Tupac-Catari organized in the Rocks. Weak and exhausted by his
sufferings, is in his soul Reseguin force enough to revive their forces shot down. He wields his
sword, reaches to the rebels, The defeat, which another Marshal of Saxony at the battle of Fontenoi,
enters the village Peñas, loaded on the shoulders of its soldiers.
 He took nothing but his revolver, and didn't say where he was
going, but I pretty well guessed to say good-bye to Aileen. Just as he started he looked back
and says--

'I'm going for a longish ride to-day, Dick, but I shall be here late if I'm back at all. If
anything happens to me my share of what there is I give to her, if she will take it. If not,
do the best you can with it for her benefit.'

He didn't take Warrigal with him, which I was sorry for, as the half-caste and I didn't hit
it well together, and when we were by ourselves he generally managed to do or say something
he knew I didn't like. I kept my hands off him on account of Starlight, but there was many
a time my fingers itched to be at him, and I could hardly keep from knocking some of the sulkiness
out of him. This day, somehow, I was not in the best of tempers myself. I had a good lot on
my mind. Starting away seems always a troublesome, bothering sort of thing, and if a man's
at all inclined to be cranky it'll come out then.

Next day we were going to start on a long voyage, in a manner of speaking, and whether we should
have a fair wind or the vessel of our fortune would be wrecked and we go down with it no one
could say. This is how it happened. One of the horses was bad to catch, and took a little trouble
in the yard. Most times Warrigal was quiet enough with 'em, but when he got regular into a
rage he'd skin a horse alive, I really believe. Anyhow, he began to hammer the colt with a
roping-pole, and as the yard was that high that no beast could jump it he had him at his mercy.
I wouldn't have minded a lick or two, but he went on and on, nearly knocking the poor brute
down every time, till I could stand it no longer, and told him to drop it.

He gave me some saucy answer, until at last I told him I'd make him. He dared me, and I rushed
at him. I believe he'd have killed me that minute if he'd had the chance, and he made a deuced
good offer at it.

He stuck to his roping-stick--a good, heavy-ended gum sapling, six or seven feet long--and
as I came at him he struck at my head with such vengeance that, if it had caught me fair, I
should never have kicked. I made a spring to one side, and it hit me a crack on the shoulder
that wasn't a good thing in itself. I was in at him before he could raise his hands, and let
him have it right and left.

Down he went and the stick atop of him. He was up again like a wild cat, and at me hammer and
tongs--but he hadn't the weight, though he was quick and smart with his hands. I drew off and
knocked him clean off his pins. Then he saw it wasn't good enough, and gave it best.

'Never mind, Dick Marston,' says he, as he walked off; and he fixed his eyes on me that savage
and deadly-looking, with the blood running down his face, that I couldn't help shivering a
bit, 'you'll pay for this. I owe it you and Jim, one a piece.'

'Confound you,' I said, 'it's all your own fault. Why couldn't you stop ill-using the horse?
You don't like being hit yourself. How do you think he likes it?'

'What business that of yours?' he said. 'You mind your work and I'll mind mine. This is the
worst day's work you've done this year, and so I tell you.'

He went away to his gunyah then, and except doing one or two things for Starlight would not
lift his hand for any one that day.

I was sorry for it when I came to think. I daresay I might have got him round with a little
patience and humbugging. It's always a mistake to lose your temper and make enemies; there's
no knowing what harm they may do ye. People like us oughtn't to throw away a chance, even with
a chap like Warrigal. Besides, I knew it would vex Starlight, and for his sake I would have
given a trifle it hadn't happened. However, I didn't see how Warrigal could do me or Jim any
harm without hurting him, and I knew he'd have cut off his hand rather than any harm should
come to Starlight that he could help.

So I got ready. Dad and I had our tea together pretty comfortable, and had a longish talk.
The old man was rather down in the mouth for him. He said he somehow didn't expect the fakement
to turn out well. 'You're going away,' he said, 'from where you're safe, and there's a many
things goes against a man in our line, once he's away from his own beat. You never know how
you may be given away. The Captain's all right here, when he's me to look after him, though
he does swear at me sometimes; but he was took last time. He was out on his own hook, and it's
my belief he'll be took this time if he isn't very careful. He's a good man to fight through
things when once he's in the thick of 'em, but he ain't careful enough to keep dark and close
when the play isn't good. You draw along steady by yourself till you meet Jim--that's my advice
to ye.'

'I mean to do that. I shall work my way down to old George's place, and get on with stock or
something till we all meet at Cunnamulla. After that there ain't much chance of these police
here grabbing us.'

'Unless you're followed up,' says the old man. 'I've known chaps to go a deuce of a way, once
they got on the track, and there's getting some smart fellows among 'em now--native-born chaps
as'll be as good at picking up the tracks as you and Jim.'

'Well, we must take our chance. Too much love to their families and homes, and
the ambitious desire to harvest their crops, prompted a considerable defection, which faded As he
had planned, because he could not verify its retreat from the bridge Urcos so soon as it had
proposed, because suddenly all the Indians were gone Chincheros Anta, and most of the militia
force, which consisted force Army, for the small number of veterans that he had received was
successively notices of the chiefs of the other columns, in which he communicated the same incidents,
with troops from their respective commands, and also that he had been attacked by that of Langui
The rebels, led and directed by Diego Cristoval and Tupac-Amaru, the nights of 18 and April
20, which had two very bloody action, in which was considerably loss of the enemy and wounded
many of us, being included in this issue Commander, D. Manuel Castilla, and some senior officials.
Addressed these criticisms circumstances, it was necessary to have active measures, the early
replacement of deserters, that were used 11 days, and verified that measure, was put back in
motion with the body of troops under his command, forcing their marches as he could to address the people
His Sichuan Province Ink, with the intent to bring all his army in Collao, to pacify and sugetarlas
due obedience to the Sovereign.

To this end decided that the column by D. Manuel de Castilla, mayor
of Paruro, follow the path of the people of Macari, where he had to
halt to await orders later.

Cotabamba than commanded by the sheriff, D. José Maria Acuña, shall be directed for Czech Quequi,
Yauri and Coporaque, in order to reduce these people to obedience HO, and for better success
is incorporated into the mestizos and Indians of the peoples of the Quispicanche province, that
the zeal of the priest D. Loaira Philip, a native and resident the town of Oropesa, recruit their
own will, patenting the most earnest yearning with which was interested in the favorable events
of the King's Arms, governors and serving front of them. Another column of 1,000 men, under Colonel
Dragons army D. Gabriel de Aviles, pass to the nearby village of Muñoz, in order to acquire news
of that country, and to punish those rebels and the Commanding General, with the rest of the
army passed the line that divides the viceroyalty of Lima to Buenos Aires, where he found rebellion
with the greatest fury and cruelty, because Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, its new leader reckless
fearing that whites and mestizos in those provinces as arrestesen with treason, in strength of the
prizes offered for his capture, selected and implemented the barbarian party egecucion flooding
kill indiscriminately to all who were not of their caste, regardless of the age or sex, too punishing
and persecuting the priests and priests of those territories, his half-brother José Gabriel
had been treated with much consideration, and due respect to their sacred character. Uníanse
these misfortunes to a larger one, which was have formed by time, or shortly before, in the
village of Ayoayo, Sicasica province, another monstrous leader of rebellion, more cruel and
bloody than all of its class. This Julian was Apas, Indian poor and unknown, that of sacristan
became a pawn to wit, knowing then take advantage of the troubles raised by Tupac Amaru, helped
another, called Marcelo Street, so Giant became an authority, which ended in his devotion few
days Carangas provinces, Sicasica, Pacajes, Yungas, Omasoyos, Larecaja, Chucuito and others:
and to them that the Indians had more respect and veneration for his person, and should give
but rise to their persuasions, are surnamed Catari Tupac, Tupac coupling the Jose Gabriel and
the surname of Catari, typical of the three Hermon encouraged the first stirrings Chayanta
in the province. This horrific leader will repeatedly remind when it is time to refer the pitiful
events which led to these realms. Let us now troops to the viceroyalty of Lima, and to continue
the series of operations.

Major General continued, D. José del Valle, the marches, as he had thought to enter the jurisdiction
of the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires: the approach to the Pampa de Quesque, and spent the night,
were seen as 100 rebels, who had the audacity to fire at the vanguard
of the army, with only three rifles, accompanied by repeated this
hostility and broken cries, in saying to our people who were not so
cowardly as those of Ink province, who had just overcome, and then
it was very different esperimentarian the equilibrium and the constancy
of the Indians of the Collao.

When they had to find our army climbed to the top of a very high mountain covered with snow,
where would all the Retiro cattle. Appointed General Commander Don Anthony Calf, Sergeant Major
of the regiment Cuzco, with 80 riflemen to go up to punish his audacity: what this officer
egecutó bizarrely, killing twelve rebels, and removing some horses and sheep that much led the
field, and soon after it was revealed by four prisoners, townspeople Santa Rosa were the most
affectionate partial distinguished the glories of Tupac-Amaru, and who had accompanied him in his
most arduous undertaking, which determined the general punishment, and this attempt is launched
to the people. He entered the army without resistance and encircling the main square suddenly,
took off all who were there to would suffer the death penalty, the punishment of which occurred
in 20, having come about by just provindencia All-Mighty that falls the luck in the most famous
captains and immediate dependents the rebel, as verified later by those who remained alive.
But, however that this decision was as faithful in that village residents will never be approved
similar procedure, but has been supported by the benefits that resulted from having joined
the army, and suffered persecution and perseverance extraordinary subsidies which have made them rebels
continued.

The army continued Orurillo village, where some elderly, and found only a few wives, and asked his deputy
cure, D. Juan Bautista Moran, which was the reason why those neighbors had left their home espresso
had not reached their entreaties and persuasions, to convince them to wait quietly to the arrival
of the troops of the King, they were committed with the greatest obstinacy in refusing obedience,
and follow the flags seditious of rebellion-a procedure that forced the Commanding General to ensure
the capture of a few: and having succeeded in making two prisoners were passed immediately by
the arms and published that would be punished after that town and
its neighbors to the full extent of the war, once stubbornly wanted
to secede from the due obedience to his rightful owner.

Providence, understood by some who were present, they also observed Christian shows that a few
individuals of the army, had the effect of them to go in search of their relatives and friends,
and persuade him to submit submissive, as indeed did so, and in a short time they were coming in packs,
eager to provide the imagination of obedience to the king, vowing henceforth be faithful vassals.
Consequent to the orders that had the Colonel D. Gabriel de Aviles, was already encamped with
his column in the vicinity of Orurillo: that as they pass through Muñoa, ordered attack destamento
by 90 men to a piece of rebels who occupied those high, which were defeated with loss of 150
men killed, which led to having made an obstinate resistance, however, that their total does not
amounted to more than 400, and having learned the 6 May be more than 100 rebels were occupying
some thick walls of an ancient hill called Ceasiri, sent rob and surround, but he caught a little
bit of fire on our side, they saw as 500 enemies, mounted and armed with good spears, rammed to
the our three different parts, with the highest resolution and bravery, but that attacking
the body, was composed of 20 rifle, 80 militants and 600 Indians Chincheros who waited on time,
and little time to achieve victory, defeating the rebels, they left on the battlefield more than
100 people, and our only they were a part sergeant and two Indian cavalry Chincheros, being
wounded the captain and lieutenant Andaguaillas the company. Gathered this column to the army,
continued the path toward Asillo village, which also found entirely abandoned and deserted.
Only cure, D. José Maruri, went out to meet the Commanding General, no closer than four servants,
and told him that all the neighbors had forsaken their rooms and they found troops of the vanguard
that some thought should be submitted to implore pardon rendered of their crimes, and others insisted
that they were to join with the province of Azangaro, to oppose the passage of troops. But shortly
after it was found that the reasons for this church were hidden, produced with the most wicked
malice, and was one of those had attended more to the development of the main rebels, leading
to his neighbors doctrine, to be enlisted under its banners: and not content with having committed
this evil, they had also assisted with his wealth and effects. Commander securely General procedure
so wicked, kidnapping ordered all his papers, and were confirmed the perverse behavior because
it had been followed and found a friendly match with José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, and also with
Diego, who continued the unjust designs his brother, and finding confirmed their heinous crimes
intercepted documents are ordered him bound in a pair of shackles, and referred to the city
of Cuzco, so that resolved view of the Inspector General, D. José Antonio de Areche, was formed
because, or order him to consider imposing the punishment fair. And a warning to those who
disbelieve subjects also provided that D. Gabriel de Aviles come out the same night at the head
of a detachment well reinforced, with the order of the dawn the following day, is at the foot of a
mountain that had been placed to surround, and treat them with all rigor of arms, as indeed
egecutó, killing over 100 and take many mules, horses and spears, without having lost a man of
our side, not have been possible kill them they fled headlong so rough and muddy roads, which
was useless to continue to achieve them.

Continued once a day up our army, and soon after sighted the famous mount time Condocuyo appointed,
where the year of 1740 or made a stubborn 41-Indian defense Azangaro province against its mayor,
D. Alfonso Santa mutineers on complaints Flood deals they had made to those who, not being
able to reduce by force, was seen compelled to encircle and starve. There was this hill crowned
by enemies with flags, boxes and bugles, whose buzz accompanied by repeated and out of tune
vocals, which formed a noisy set so great that it seemed it was occupied by 100,000 men, repeating
incessantly the screams, all aimed to slander and insult our troops. There was also on the plain
considerable number of rebels, who retreated to all diligence to the heights their stores,
furniture and livestock. The beaters rushed to every stroke, contrary to the orders who were,
and so egecutaron abruptly and disunion, the rebels fell on them determinedly, not being able
to defend or liberate the prisoners, led also the deaths of fifteen dragons Lima troops following
them, without it being possible around this sensitive and unfortunate event the forefront, which
sought to stride closer for this purpose.

East and the whole Spanish army of insurgents, and occupied the foot of that mountain of Condorcuyo,
Indians Chincheros Anta and shouted that if he fell to the obedience His Majesty would be
forgiven in good faith, and would restore to their homes peacefully, but they stubborn answered
them boldly, that his object was to go to Cuzco, to give freedom to his idolized Inca, and that
this concept if they go on their way accommodated. It was learned later by some prisoners, who commanded
the rebel camp D. Pedro Vilca-Apas commander appointed by the caudillo Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru,
and that the army had all Indians in the provinces of Azangaro and Carabaya.

Well reviewed the situation of the rebels, and that it was useless to reduce them by gentle
means, was determined to attack the next day, the Commanding General ordered dividing his army
into four columns, which stand at different positions, rush to Mountain time, allocating one of
them only in order to turn the enemies and take them in the back, in order that batiese and chasing
fugitives who escape the three others, which was set in motion two hours before the others, and
all the prevention not move until the signal for the attack. Consequent to these caveats, placed
each in the post I had mentioned, and the firing of two cannon shots
started determinedly to rise, and the rebels went to meet with the
same resolution, and before while the fight became general, that the
enemy made a stubborn resistance, aided a few pens that were fortified
since 1741, and then had placed in state of the best defense.

Stationed in them, they managed to repel the army Lieutenant Colonel, D. Manuel Campero, which
at the head of a column of 1,500 men attacked by the left with courage and bravery, but also resisted
the enemy, suffering a high heat his gun, because they were committed to sustain and defend a
very precise step where had to climb. This day our troops credited his tenacity and spirit,
and not a little evidence the rebels, until surpassed by ours, also contributed to the Indians
Chincheros Anta, were evacuated and put to flight, leaving the battlefield more than 600 bodies, unable
to find the number of wounded would be many, because suffered a fire on our side too, in fact
almost always shot at a distance of half rifle

.
 Just then in comes the landlady to sharpen up the man at the bar.

'Haven't you served those drinks yet, Bob?' she sings out. 'Why, the gentlemen called for them
half-an-hour ago. I never saw such a slow-going crawler as you are. You'd never have done for
the Turon boys.'

We all looked at her--not a bad-looking woman she'd been once, though you could see she'd come
down in the world and been knocked about a bit. Surely I knew her voice! I'd seen her before--why,
of course--

She was quicker than I was.

'Well, Dick!' says she, pouring out all the drinks, taking the note, and rattling down the
change on the counter, all in a minute, same as I'd often seen her do before, 'this is a rough
shop to meet old friends in, isn't it? So you didn't know me, eh? We're both changed a bit.
You look pretty fresh on it. A woman loses her looks sooner than a man when she goes to the
bad. And Jim too,' she goes on; 'only to fancy poor old Jim turning up here too! One would
think you'd put it up to meet at the township on some plant of that sort.'

It was Kate, sure enough! How in the world did ever she get here? I knew she'd left the Turon,
and that old Mullockson had dropped a lot of his money in a big mining company he'd helped
to float, and that never turned out gold enough to pay for the quicksilver in the first crushing.
We'd heard afterwards that he'd died and she'd married again; but I never expected to see her
brought down so low as this--not but what we'd known many a woman that started on the diggings
with silks and satins and a big house and plate-glass windows brought down to a cotton gown
and a bark shanty before half-a-dozen years were over.

Jim and I both looked queer. The men began to laugh. Any one could see we were both in a fix.
Jim spoke first.

'Are you sure you're not making a mistake, missis?' says he, looking at her very quiet-like.
'Take care what you say.'

He'd better have held his tongue. I don't know whether she really intended to give us away.
I don't think she did altogether; but with them kind of women it's a regular toss up whether
they'll behave reasonable or not. When they're once started, 'specially if they think they've
not been treated on the square, they can't stop themselves.

'Take care what I say!' she breaks out, rising her voice to a scream, and looking as if she'd
jump over the bar-counter and tear the eyes out of me. 'Why should I take care? It's you, Dick
Marston, you double-faced treacherous dog that you are, that's got a thousand pounds on your
head, that has cause to care, and you, Jim Marston, that's in the same reward, and both of
you know it. Not that I've anything against you, Jim. You're a man, and always was. I'll say
that for you.'

'And you're a woman,' groans out poor Jim. 'That's the reason you can't hold your infernal
tongue, I suppose.'

Kate had let the cat out of the bag now and no mistake. You should have seen the drover and
his men look at us when they found they had the famous bush-rangers among them that they'd
all heard so much about this years past. Some looked pretty serious and some laughed. The drover
spoke first.

'Bush-ranger here or bush-ranger there,' he says, 'I'm going to lose a dashed good man among
cattle; and if this chattering fool of a woman had held her tongue the pair of ye might have
come on with the cattle till they were delivered. Now I'm a man short, and haven't one as I
can trust on a pinch. I don't think any more of you, missis,' he says, 'for being so dashed
ready to give away your friends, supposing they had been on the cross.'

But Kate didn't hear. She had fallen down in a kind of fit, and her husband, coming in to see
what the row was about, picked her up, and stood looking at us with his mouth open.

'Look here, my man,' says I, 'your wife's taken me and this gentleman,' pointing to Jim, 'for
some people she knew before on the diggings, and seems to have got rather excited over it.
If it was worth our while to stay here, we'd make her prove it. You'd better get her to lie
down, and advise her, when she comes to, to hold her tongue, or you might be made to suffer by it.'

'She's a terror when she's put out, and that's God's truth,' says the chap; and starting to
drag her over to one of the bits of back bedrooms. 'It's all right, I daresay. She will keep
meddling with what don't consarn her. I don't care who yer are or what yer are. If you knowed
her afore, I expect ye'll think it best to clear while she's unsensible like.'

'Here's a shout all round for these men here,' says I, throwing a note on the bar. 'Never mind
the change. Good-bye, chaps. This gentleman and I have some business together, and there's
no bush-ranging in it, you may take my word.'

We all left then. The men went back to their cattle. Jim rode quietly along the road to Cunnamulla
just like any other traveller. I went down and saddled up my horse. Disappear, with the
armies and the laws made by the powerful, all the antagonism between the happy and the unfortunate,
all deposits and cruelties that make the earth into a prison. Only men would. And this could be
achieved as soon as the vast majority of human The immense army of misery, it knew its strength,
refusing to hold for longer the work of the tradition! ...

Salvatierra humanitarian sentimentality was flattered by this generous dream of innocence.
Change the world without blood, with a theatrical coup, using the magic wand instruction, without
such violence that repelled a gentle soul and always ending with the defeat of the unfortunate
and cruel reprisals from powerful! ...

The Maestrico still maintained their belief with a faith that illuminated her candid eyes. Ay!
If the poor know what they know who are rich ... These are strong and rule, because wisdom
is at your service. All discoveries and inventions of science fall in their hands, are for
them, just the waste coming from below. If anyone out miserable mass, rising capacity, rather than
remaining true to its origin, paying sibling support, deserted his post, turning their backs
on a hundred generations of grandparents slaves, crushed by injustice, and sold his body and
intelligence to tormentors, begging for a place among them. Ignorance was the worst servitude,
the most heinous martyrdom of the poor. But the isolated and individual instruction was useless:
it only served to be deserters, defectors, who were quick to side with the enemy. They were instructed
all at the same time: to acquire the bulk of his force knowledge, appropriate blow the great achievements
of human reason.

- Everyone! You know what I mean, Don Fernando?

All at once, shouting "We want no more trickery I do not serve for more to continue. "

And Ferdinand nods approvingly.

Yes, all at the same time, so had to be: all, shedding the skin of bestiality resigned, only
garment that tradition tended to keep on his shoulders.

But again the Gañanía sight, full of shadow and smoke, cover your eyes believed all mankind exploited
and unhappy. Some had just eat soup, with which cheating their hunger, while others stretched,
satisfied belch, believing that it added digestion nothing broken force of his life, all appeared
brutish, nasty, no will out of his condition, believing in miracles as dimly only hope, or thinking
in Christian charity to let him rest a minute in a desperate roll the costs of poverty. Much
time had to elapse before these poor people open his eyes and learn the way! Who could wake, infusing
faith that poor boy who was walking in the dark, with eyes fixed
on a distant star himself see!

...

The group of the idea, leaving the clean bowl of gazpacho and came to sit on the ground around
Salvatierra. Seriously, rolled cigars, as if this operation completely absorbed his thoughts. The
snuff was their only pleasure, and had to calculate the duration of poor pack throughout the week.
Manolo had Trebujena pannier out of your ass a tonelillo of brandy and served drinks in the center
of a circle. Came to him, eagerly sick, the old farmhands of stout parchment face and beard,
his eyes shining in the comfort of alcohol. Young drew the strip coins copper, after long hesitation,
and drinking, mentally justifying the extraordinary costs with the absurd idea that the next
day did not work. Some girls, of loose gestures, move cautiously, with passage of cats, to be
confused with groups of the boys, shrieking when they offered them a drink after numerous tweaks
and rubs brutal desire.

Listened to Juanon Salvatierra, a former comrade who worked on the
plantation had the trip to Jerez, only to see him when he arrived
the prison.

It was a huge man, stalwart, with high cheekbones, square jaw and
fiery, the tough and wiry hair invading the forehead and deep eyes
that, at times, glowed with the green glow of the cats.

He had been a gardener, but his reputation as unruly and quarrelsome, he had to devote to work
of the villages, finding only Matanzuela occupation, thanks to Rafael,
who protected him for being a friend of his godfather.

Juanon inspired respect to all Gañanía. It was an impulsive, without relapse of despair: a strong
will to be imposed on partners.

Sentences spoken slowly and Salvatierra, looking at the same time people with a pout superiority,
accompanied by frequent spitting on the floor.

- This has changed a lot, Fernando. We paatrás and the rich are more owners than ever.

Salvatierra Tuteaba to use companion and spoke with contempt for working people. The young people
and saw there: believing happy with a drink and no more thought than to endorse to colleagues.
There was nothing to look at the coolness with which they had witnessed the arrival of Salvatierra.
Many have not felt the curiosity to approach him, had even smiled ironically, as if to say: "A
liar again." To them were liars the the old newspapers they read aloud liars who spoke of the
strength of association and a possible revolt: they were only really three and two real gazpacho
of wages, and with this, some drunk from time to time and the assault of a worker, which afflicted
with the begetting of a new poor, considered themselves happy while
lasted in them the optimism of youth and strength.

If still the urge strikes, was by the noise and clutter that they brought. Of the former, there
were still many faithful to the idea, but timid spirits, fearful,
hunched in fear that they instill known the rich.

- We suffered a
lot, Fernando.

While you were over there suffering, that we have transformed.

And speaking of the reign of terror which reduced to silence all around the countryside. The rich city,
hated by the servants of the field, watched over them with a cruel and relentless gesture to
hide fear of them had. Poníanse Lords on guard at the slightest disturbance. Suffice it to comply
with some mystery some day laborers in a herd on a ranch in the countryside, so that when the rich
sounded the alarm bell in newspapers in Spain, and reach Jerez new soldiers and civil guard
run the country threatening to anyone who was not consistent with the smallness of the wages
and food poverty. La Mano Negra!

Always that ghost, enlarged by the exuberant imagination of Andalusia, which looked after the
rich keep alive and standing to move so the farmhands formulated the slightest request! ...

To sustain its injustices and traditional servitude, required the state of war, pretend that
lived between hazards, complaining of government because they are not protected enough. If the
laborers asked to be given them to eat like humans, they smoke dejasen
a cigarette more hours of sun scorching summer, they would increase
the two real a few cents, everyone was shouting from above reminding
La Mano Negra, stating that would rise.

Juanon, driven by anger, stood up. La Mano Negra! What was that? He had suffered persecution
for believing affiliated to it and certainly did not yet know what it was. For months had
been in jail with other unfortunates. We drew on the evening of closure, to hit him in the dark
solitude of the country. The questions of men uniform butts that were accompanied by crunching
their bones, that is crazy beating exacerbated with your negatives. Even in the body bore the scars
of these gifts of the rich and Jerez. I could have died without that he answers like their tormentors.
Company knew to defend the lives of day laborers and resist the abuse of masters, he was part
of them, but the Black Hand, the terrific partnership with daggers
and vendettas, not knowing a word.

As proof of his fictional existence, there was only one death, a murder in a vulgar country of
wine and blood, and the killing a few workers were killed by garrote vile, and hundreds of unhappy
as he lived in prison suffering torments that some cost them existence. But since then the masters
had to lift a scarecrow as a flag, La Mano Negra, and did not intend
the poor in the countryside the slightest movement towards their welfare,
that raised the specter gloomy dripping blood.

All authorized the grim memory. For the slightest lack a man were beaten in field, the laborer
was a suspicion against which everything was legal. The excesses of zeal authority is appreciated
and rewarded, and who dared to protest he imposed silence the memory of La Mano Negra. Chastened
young people with this sample, men had fear, and the rich back in the city, with the imagination
fortified wine from their cellars, still adding caps to his ghost, hanging ornaments new terror,
enlarging so that the very people who had been born speaking of him
as horribly Legendary happened in ancient times.

Juanon stopped, and his companions remained terrified by the specter of imagination South, which
appeared black rags covering their entire field of Jerez.

The Gañanía, after dinner, he had recovered the calm of the night. Many men slept lying on their
mats with a weary snoring, breathing at ground fumes smothering the
embers of dung.

In the background, women, sitting on the floor with skirts puffed up like mushrooms, contábanse
recounted stories or miraculous cures occurred in the mountains of the miracle of the virgin.

A elevábase bass motion in a low voice above the murmur of conversations. Roma were which continued
its extraordinary food. Capers aunt had taken from under their skirts a bottle of wine to celebrate
their good fortune in the city. The offspring came to sip on the cast, but the sight of wine
was enough to spread the joy. Capers with eyes on her mother, who was the eldest of his admiration,
sang together with muted clapping that beat all the family. The gypsy whined "their grief
and penalties "with that false sentimentality of popular song, adding
that" to hear a bird had fallen from thousands feeling the feathers,
"and the old and its people cheered and praised his grace as enthusiastically
as if they praise themselves.

Capers cut short the song to speak to his mother, with the inconsistency of the gypsy Whimsical jumping
from one thought to another.

- Mare, and what we are unlucky pobresitos gypsies!

The porridge are all kings, alcardes, Juesas and general and are not ná canis.

- Caya, Malange! Nor is carselero dengún gypsy and executioner ... Go, fool, take another.

And resumed singing and clapping with renewed vigor.

A farmhand offered a glass of brandy to Juanon, which rejected its paw.

- That's what we lost - sententiously said .-- The Cursed drinking.

And supported by the gestures of approval Maestrico, who had kept his writing accoutrements
to join the group, outlawed Juanon intoxication. I forgot those people miserable especially when
drinking. If men came to feel sometime, would not the rich more than open the doors of their
cellars to beat.

Many in the group protested Juanon words. What could a poor but drink to forget their misery?
And broke the respectful silence imposed by the presence of Salvatierra,
spoke many a time, to express their pain and anger.

The food was increasingly worse, the rich abusing their strength, that they had instilled fear
and propagated.

Only at the time of threshing were given a chickpea stew: the remainder of bread, only bread, and
in many places, priced. Exploited to their most pressing needs. Previously, to plow the land, for
every ten plows had a man stand, which occupied the site his retirement
a time to get rid of waste gazpacho.

Now, to save this alternate, given five cents a mite, on condition not to leave the team but
the stomach was the most cruel torment appeals, and this we called
them a sad irony, "selling the ... site more ignoble of the body.

Every year more farms coming to the women of the mountains. Females were submissive, the weakness
female made them fear the aerator and struggled in his work. The Manijero, recruiters, coming
down the mountain in front of their bands driven by hunger.

Described in the villages the Jerez countryside as a place of abundance, and families trust
the daughters Manijero just entered puberty, thinking, with a heartless greed in the real that would
bring collected after the working season.

The aerator of Matanzuela and some of the circle, who were Manijero
protested.

Men of which have not slept Gañanía habíanse clustered around Salvatierra.

- We are Mandaa - Aerator said .-- What we JACER, poor us? That the masters, which are sent to
us.

The old Zarandillo intervened as well, regarded as falling within
the so-called government farmhouse.

The masters! ... They could fix everything, only to remember some of the poor; to be charitable,
very charitable.

Salvatierra, who listened impassively to the words of the day laborers, stirred, breaking his
silence to hear the old man. Charity! And for what it was? To keep the poor in slavery, waiting
for the crumbs that silenced his hunger for a moment and prolonged
bondage.

The charity was selfishness masquerading as virtue, the sacrifice
of a small part of handout superfluous whim.

Charity No: Justice! To each his own!

And the revolutionary inflamed the talk: he left her smiling coldly;
brillábanle the blue eyes behind the glasses, the fire of rebellion.

The charity had done nothing to dignify man. Nineteenth centuries led to reign; was sung by poets
such as divine inspiration, the happy extolled as the greatest virtues, and the world was
like the day she first appeared with doctrine of Christ. The experience was long enough to appreciate
its usefulness.

It was the most impotent and anemic virtues. Had words of love for the slave, but did not break
his chains, gave a loaf to slave modern, but the child did not dare criticism against the social
organization that was condemned to misery for the rest of his life.

The charity, supporting the needy for a moment to take forces, was so virtuous as the peasant
who feeds birds in his yard and keeps it primed, to devouring time.

Nothing had done this under pale to free the men.

It was the rebellion, protest desperate, he had broken the bonds of the old servant, which would
emancipate the employee modern, flattered with all kinds of rights ideals, except the right bread.

Salvatierra,
in the exaltation of his mind, he wanted to squeeze all the ghosts with which had terrified
and entertained for centuries to the needy, not to hinder the happy calm of the privileged.

Social justice could only save men, and Justice was not in heaven, lived on earth.

Over a thousand years had resigned themselves pariahs, with thought
put into the sky, hoping in an eternal compensation.

But the sky was empty. What was unfortunate and believe in him? God had gone to the rich, appreciated
as a virtue worthy of eternal glory, the that now and then dividing
it between a piece of his fortune, while retaining full and reputed
as a crime of welfare claims below.

Although the sky existed, the unfortunate would refuse to enter it as a place of injustice and
gets the same privilege where you spend your life suffering, he who
lives in wealth distracting their boredom with the voluptuousness
of the charity.

Christianity was a lie, distorted and exploited by those above to justify and sanctify his usurpation.
Justice, not Charity!

Welfare on the unhappy land and that the rich should be reserved, if desired, the possession of heaven,
opening the hand drop their earthly plunder!

Les Miserables could not expect anything from above. Above their heads there was only one infinite
insensitive to human despair: another world that ignored the miserable lives of millions of
worms on this area dishonored by selfishness and violence.

The hungry, which had a thirst for justice, should only rely on themselves.

Top, if only to die! Others come back, which would spread the seed germinating in the furrows
fertilized blood. Standing and moving the horde of misery, not God but the rebellion, lighting
the way the red star, the eternal hell of religions, indispensable guide for all the great movements
of humanity! ...

The group of laborers listened in silence to the revolutionary. Many followed his opening words
eyes wide as if to absorb the view.

Trebujena Juanon and nodding their head movements.

They had read so confused Salvatierra said, but they moved it's mouth
as a vibrant music of passion.

The old Zarandillo not afraid to break the atmosphere of enthusiasm,
speaking with his sense practical.

- Too it is fine, Don Fernando.

But the poor need to live pa land and the land is Masters.

Salvatierra stood proudly.

The land was not anyone. What men had created to appropriate it as his work? The land belonged
to those who worked it.
The unfair distribution of wealth, increasing poverty with increasing
civilization; the powerful taking advantage of all the mechanical
inventions, designed to suppress body work and only served to make
it heavier and brutalizing; all evil of humanity come from the appropriation
of land by a few thousand men they sow not yet collected, while millions
of people make abortion down their treasures of life suffering a hunger
for centuries.

Salvatierra's voice echoed in the silence of the Gañanía
as a battle cry.

- The world is beginning to awaken from their dream
of thousands of years, protests have been stolen in its infancy. The
land is yours: no one has created and belongs to everyone. If it exists
some improvement, your work is of black hands, who are your titles.
Man is born with the right to breathe air, the sun heats it, and should
take possession land that sustains him. Cultivate the soil for another
pick the harvest belong to you but you, miserable, debased by thousands
of years of bondage, doubt of your right hand forward fearing lest
you believe thieves. Which captures a piece of land, by excluding
others, which delivers it to the human beasts to do so occur while
he remains idle, that's the really robs his fellows.

IV

The two
mastiffs that guarded at night around the tower Marchamalo ceased
to doze under the arcades of the house of wineries, with the body
in a circle, supporting in the tail ferocious jaws.

Irguiéronse both
at the same time, sniffed the space and balance after a certain hesitation,
roared, throwing down with a vineyard that was overwhelming urge to
jump land between their legs.

They were animals almost wild, fiery
eyes and red mouth bristling with teeth that gave cold. The two jumped
on a man who walked bent by between strains outside the slope on the
straight path leading from the road to the tower. Sir Ferdinand gave a nod, and a pair of handcuffs
were slipped over his wrists.

'You told the police the way I went?' says I. 'It's all come out of that.'

'Thought they'd grab you at Willaroon,' says he, looking at me quite sorrowful with his dark
eyes, like a child. 'If you hadn't knocked me down that last time, Dick Marston, I'd never
have done nothing to you nor Jim. I forgot about the old down. That brought it all back again.
I couldn't help it, and when I see Jimmy Wardell I thought they'd catch you and no one else.'

'Well, you've made a clean sweep of the lot of us, Warrigal,' says I, 'poor Jim and all. Don't
you ever show yourself to the old man or go back to the Hollow, if you get out of this.'

'He's dead now. I'll never hear him speak again,' says he, looking over to the figure on the
grass. 'What's the odds about me?'

    .   .   .   .   .

I didn't hear any more; I must have fainted away again. Things came into my head about being
taken in a cart back to Cunnamulla, with Jim lying dead on one side of me and Starlight on
the other. I was only half-sensible, I expect. Sometimes I thought we were alive, and another
time that the three of us were dead and going to be buried.

What makes it worse I've seen that sight so often since--the fight on the plain and the end
of it all. Just like a picture it comes back to me over and over again, sometimes in broad
day, as I sit in my cell, in the darkest midnight, in the early dawn.

It rises before my eyes--the bare plain, and the dead men lying where they fell; Sir Ferdinand
on his horse, with the troopers standing round; and the half-caste sitting with Starlight's
head in his lap, rocking himself to and fro, and crying and moaning like a woman that's lost
her child.

I can see Jim, too--lying on his face with his hat rolled off and both arms spread out wide.
He never moved after. And to think that only the day before he had thought he might see his
wife and child again! Poor old Jim! If I shut my eyes they won't go away. It will be the last
sight I shall see in this world before--before I'm----

The coroner of the district held an inquest, and the jury found a verdict of 'justifiable homicide
by Sir Ferdinand Morringer and other members of the police force of New South Wales in the
case of one James Marston, charged with robbery under arms, and of a man habitually known as
"Starlight", but of whose real name there was no evidence before the jury.' As for the police,
it was wilful murder against us. Warrigal and I were remanded to Turon Court for further evidence,
and as soon as we were patched up a bit by the doctor--for both of us looked like making a
die of it for two or three weeks--we were started on horseback with four troopers overland
all the way back. We went easy stages--we couldn't ride any way fast--both of us handcuffed,
and our horses led.

One day, about a fortnight after, as we were crossing a river, Warrigal's horse stopped to
drink. It was a swim in the middle of the stream, and the trooper, who was a young chap just
from the depot, let go his leading rein for a bit. Warrigal had been as quiet as a lamb all
the time, and they hadn't a thought of his playing up. I heard a splash, and looked round;
his horse's head was turned to the bank, and, before the trooper could get out of the river,
he was into the river scrub and away as fast as his horse could carry him. Both the troopers
went after him, and we waited half-an-hour, and then went on to the next police station to
stop till they came back.

Next day, late, they rode in with their horses regularly done and knocked up, leading his horse,
but no Warrigal. He had got clear away from them in the scrub, jumped off his horse when they
were out of sight, taken off his boots and made a straight track for the West Bogan scrub.
There was about as much chance of running him down there as a brumbie with a day's start or
a wallaroo that was seen on a mountain side the week before last. I didn't trouble my head
that much to think whether I was glad or sorry. What did it matter? What did anything matter
now? The only two men I loved in the world were dead; the two women I loved best left forsaken
and disgraced; and I--well, I was on my way to be hanged!

I was taken along to Turon and put into the gaol, there to await my trial. They didn't give
me much of a chance to bolt, and I wouldn't have taken it if they had. I was dead tired of
my life, and wouldn't have taken my liberty then and there if they'd given it me. All I wanted
was to have the whole thing done and over without any more bother.

It all passed like a dream. The court was crowded till there wasn't standing room, every one
wanting to get a look at Dick Marston, the famous bush-ranger. The evidence didn't take so
very long. I was proved to have been seen with the rest the day the escort was robbed; the
time the four troopers were shot. I was suspected of being concerned in Hagan's party's death,
and half-a-dozen other things. Last of all, when Sub-Inspector Goring was killed, and a trooper,
besides two others badly wounded.

I was sworn to as being one of the men that fired on the police. I didn't hear a great deal
of it, but 'livened up when the judge put on his black cap and made a speech, not a very long
one, telling about the way the law was set at naught by men who had dared to infest the highways
of the land and rob peaceful citizens with arms and violence. In the pursuit of gain by such
atrocious means, blood had been shed, and murder, wilful murder, had been committed. He would
not further allude to the deeds of blood with which the prisoner at the bar stood charged.
The only redeeming feature in his career had been brought out by the evidence tendered in his
favour by the learned counsel who defended him. He had fought fairly when opposed by the police
force, and he had on more than one occasion acted in concert with the robber known as Starlight,
and the brother James Marston, both of whom had fallen in a recent encounter, to protect from
violence women who were helpless and in the power of his evil companions. Then the judge pronounced
the sentence that I, Richard Marston, was to be taken from the place whence I came, and there
hanged by the neck until I was dead. 'And might God have mercy upon my soul!'

My lawyer had beforehand argued that although I had been seen in the company of persons who
had doubtless compassed the unlawfully slaying of the Queen's lieges and peace officers, yet
no proof had been brought before the court that day that I had wilfully killed any one. 'He
was not aware,' would his Honour remark, 'that any one had seen me fire at any man, whether
since dead or alive. He would freely admit that. I had been seen in bad company, but that fact
would not suffice to hang a man under British rule. It was therefore incumbent on the jury
to bring in a verdict for his client of "not guilty".'

But that cock wouldn't fight. I was found guilty by the jury and sentenced to death by the
judge. I expect I was taken back without seeing or hearing to the gaol, and I found myself
alone in the condemned cell, with heavy leg-irons--worn for the first time in my life. The
rough and tumble of a bush-ranger's life was over at last, and this was the finish up.

For the first week or two I didn't feel anything particular. I was hardly awake. Sometimes
I thought I must be dreaming--that this man, sitting in a cell, quiet and dull-looking, with
heavy irons on his limbs, could never be Dick Marston, the shearer, the stock-rider, the gold-miner,
the bush-ranger.

This was the end--the end--the end! 

Then there was us with a set of beings subject to fixed laws, both in terms to our feelings as
between themselves, then there's the external world, then the inner us it represents, it is a
pure illusion.

CHAPTER VII.

ANALYSIS OF THE OBJECTIVITY OF THE SENSATIONS.

[36.] The external world, is just as we figured it? These beings that cause us feelings, and
we call bodies, are in fact what we believe? After demonstrate the existence of such beings,
and its necessary subjection to constant laws, do not yet we doubt
whether we have demonstrated the existence of bodies?

Is it enough for this object, have proven that there are external beings in relationship with
us and each other, through fixed and necessary laws, independent
of them and us?

[37.] To fully understand this question, it will be convenient simplified to a single object.

I
have to my view and in my hand an apple. As shown above, I am sure that There is an external being,
related to other beings and with mine by necessary laws, I am it
true that my views are different: see its color, shape and size, feel
his smell, taste experiment, I feel in the hand of their magnitude,
their weight, figure, its concavities and convex, and also hear the
faint sound bouncing when the nudging.

The idea of ​​body is a composite idea, and so the apple will be: a thing external large, colorful,
fragrant and tasty.

Whenever you meet these circumstances, that is, whenever I receive
an object the same views, I will say that I have in sight an apple.

[38.] Let us now examine the extent to which the object corresponds to the sensations it causes.

What
do we mean when we say we mean is something tasty? Nothing else but that makes us an impression
on the palate nice: the self is checked against the smell. Then the two words fragrant and tasty,
only express the causality of these feelings, resident in the external object. For the color, we can
say the same, because although commonly transfer the sensation to the object and put ourselves
in some contradiction to the philosophical theory color and light, this contradiction is only apparent,
since in the end, it examined the trial, only the printing is referred to specific objects,
for so when first we hear in the departments of natural colors are not the object easily get used
to reconcile the philosophical theory of meaning with the impression,
because in the end that theory does not alter the truth that such
and such impressions are coming from these or those points of different
objects.

[39.] In this part, it is difficult to explain the phenomena of feeling, no correspondence of
them with external objects, because this correspondence is enough to save them are really the cause
(or occasion) of them. It's not as easy task as regards the extension, as this property is as the
basis for all other sensitive, and regardless whether or not it is
the essence of bodies, the truth is that we can not conceive of body
where there is no extension.

[40.] This will feel the difference going from the extension to the other grades sensitive to following
observation. When we have not ever thought of the relation of external objects with our feelings,
we do not know what confusion on these points, and the color, smell, taste and even sound,
somehow transferred to the same objects, considering confused these as qualities inherent to
them. So the child and the rustic feel that is really green in the leaves, the smell is in
the rose, the sound in the Bell, taste the fruit. But it is easy to see that this is a confusing
trial that not realize to themselves clearly; trial that can be altered and even destroyed
without destroying or altering the overall relationship of our senses with objects. Thus, even
very young age, we got used to easily refer to the light color and up to set you on is definitely
not, but to look at him as an impression produced in our sense of the mysterious action of
this agent. The smell does not trouble us regarded as a sensation emanating from the action
of the waves of a body on organ of smell and the sound left to consider what something inherent
in the body sound, and we see it more than the impression conveyed in the direction of the vibration
of air, moved to turn the vibration of sound body.

These philosophical considerations which at first sight, it seemed to be in contradiction with
our view, do not alter the external world for us, not cause a disruption in the ideas we form of him,
only make us more secure attention in some relationships deslindábamos evil, and do not allow
us to attribute to objects, more than you actually have. We do limit the testimony of the senses
to the field they belong, in some measure rectified the judgments that had formed, but the world
remains the same as before, except that the charms of nature, found in more intimate relationship
with ourselves, noting that they have most part our organization and our soul than we imagined.

[41.]
But destroy the extension, removing foreign objects that quality,
let's pretend she is nothing more than a mere sensation, without knowing
anything except that there is an object we are the cause, and since
then, the corporeal world disappears.

The whole system of universe be reduced to a set of things that cause us different impressions,
but the extension removed no idea we form of the body, we do not know if everything we thought
about the world is more than a pure illusion. I am resigned to easily get rid of what they believed
in my childhood that the color I see in my hand is in it, that the noise it makes when hitting the
other is in it, but I can not in any way of removing the extension, I can not imagine the distance
from the palm to the tip of the fingers is not more than a mere feeling of there is only a
being that causes me, not knowing if in fact this distance exists. A I find tasty fruit, took the
honors work without much flavor, and considering philosophically, I have no problem admitting that
there is not anything like this taste, and if only, which is composed in such a way that affects
the body's palate convenient way for me to receive the pleasant sensation, but I can not get
to the fruit its extension, I can not in any way be considered as an indivisible thing, I am not possible
to look at the distances from one to another point of it as mere sensations. When I try by
itself viewed as indivisible object tasty, I strive in vain, and if for a moment I think I
come to conquer the instinct of nature, everything upsets me: with the same I do the right
fruit indivisible thing I do in the universe, and the indivisible universe not for me the universe,
my mind is confused, everything is destroyed around me: I suffer something more than the face of
the chaos, the chaos is to me something at least as well that horrible confusion of elements in appalling
darkness, but now suffer some more, as the corporeal universe, as he had conceived, come to naught.

CHAPTER
VIII.

Sense of the Extension.

[42.] Two senses perceive the extension, the sight and touch, smell,
taste, sound, walk accompanied by the extension, but are quite different.

The view that perceives nothing is not extended, the extension is
absolutely inseparable from that feeling.

Embedded a delicious harmony of many instruments, can be enjoyed
on the perception of sounds to forget the extension of the instruments,
air, and our bodies: but when looking at a picture, even in the midst
of the most ardent enthusiasm, can not disappear the extension.

If the transfiguration of Raphael remove the extension, the wonder disappears because the essence
of it, even considering it as a simple phenomenon of our soul, come continuity of necessity
and distances.

The same is checked against the touch, though not so generally. The hardness or softness, smoothness
or roughness, the angle or forcefully bring the extension: but it is undeniable that there are
some impressions of touch, which is not so clear that accompanied it. The sharp pain of a stitch,
and others who feel no cause known abroad, not so clearly relate to the extension, and seem to
have some that simplicity that distinguishes the impressions that
come to us for the conduct of other senses.

Since it is true that the extension belongs to perceive a particular way to the sight and touch.

[43.]
To form clear ideas about the extension in its relations with the sensation, the discuss in
some detail.

Firstly, it is noteworthy that the extension involves multiplicity, an extended being is necessarily
a set of beings: they will find themselves more or less linked together
through a bond that will form a whole: but this does not mean that
they are not many.

A beautiful picture which dominates the unity of thought of the artist, never ceases to be
a compound of many parts, the moral bond that unites them, not identified,
only the bonds, are ordered make them go to an end.

The very firm adherence to one another are the molecules that consists of the diamond, does
not make these molecules are different: the link material unites, not identified.

No multiplicity therefore no extension, where extension, there is a single being in any the rigor
of the word, but many.

[44.] But the multiplicity is not the extension, because there may be the first without the second.
Multiplicity of sounds is not the extension, the multiplicity of
flavors smells or not, we conceive multiplicity of beings of different
orders and in the material world, as in the moral and intellectual,
not to get involved in such multiple the idea of ​​extension.

Even limiting ourselves to a purely mathematical, we found multiple no extension in arithmetic
and algebraic quantities.

Then the multiplicity, while is necessary to constitute the extension is not sufficient alone
to establish it.

Reflecting on the kind of variety required to form the extension, we note you have to walk together with
the continuity. The feelings and views as of touch, involving Continuity: because I can not see
or touch, without receiving the impression of objects continuous, immediate one to the other,
coexisting in its duration and at the same moment I offered as continuing
with each other in space.

Without this continuity, multiplicity not the extension. For example, if I take four or more
points in the paper that write, and consider them an abstraction indivisible, this multiplicity is
not me the extension: I need to connect them by lines, at least imaginary, and in default
of continuity of the supposed body located, I will need to avail myself of continuity space: that
is, watch this space as a set of points, which refers below the former. For more efforts to make me
not be possible to consider as a set extension non-continuous indivisible points, or by lines:
one set will be for me as if other beings, they had nothing to do with the extension. It is noteworthy,
that if I give a particular place in space, is also linked by lines imaginary other points:
it no other way I can conceive of distances, or situation in space. That if he wanted it all
without, then step into nothingness or intellectual ie annihilate the whole idea of ​​the object,
or I move to another order of beings no relationship having either the extension or space. I have
left the area and feelings, and I'll be traced to the region of spirits.

[45.] Then the multiplicity and continuity are necessary to form the extension. What these two
conditions are sufficient? I think so, because where they exist, there is the extension: with
them two alone, entirely alone, we form the idea of ​​extension. The purpose of geometry is the
extension, and it only come multiplicity and continuity. The lines, surfaces, volumes, such as the
subject of geometry, disregard everything other than that continuity, look for the most abstraction.
Therefore it is enough empty space; or rather it would seem, that
this requires the empty space, because when he makes the application
bodies, can not find all the accuracy that was in continuity in the
abstract.

[46.] If the multiplicity and continuity in space are the extension, it exists objects really
cause us feelings. I have already shown that they are entitled to these external objects, based
on the relationship of the phenomena itself together, and the causes that produce them: so that
this relationship exists also with respect to the multiplicity and to continuity, then these two
properties are actually in nature. Prints we receive by sight and touch, even limited to a
single object, are multiple and both correspond to many objects,
are continuous and therefore correspond to continuous objects.

I will clarify something else is right. My eye fixed on a table gets an impression that comes
from many different points, is worthy of note that this impression is no interruption in entire
area that I offer. If as I have shown, the view from an external point sufficient to persuade me of
its existence, many me enough to be sure the of many, and the continuity of the posters I also
ensure the continuity of the points imprimentes.

If you touch an object seen, touch me confirms the testimony in the party he belongs to, ie
the multiplicity and continuity. I experience the same continuous succession of sensations,
which tells me the existence and continuity of the objects that cause them.

[47.] In short: the extension is the coexistence of many objects,
but in such a way they are one after another, to assure us both sensations,
then the testimony of the senses enough to be certain that there are
extended objects, and can produce several prints.

These ideas contain as caught up in the idea of ​​body: then the testimony of the senses we are
sure of the existence of bodies.

CHAPTER IX.

OBJECTIVITY OF THE SENSATION OF EXTENSION.

[48.] Tested and that the testimony of the senses is enough to ensure
the existence of bodies, see how far the ideas are correct that makes
us the same form.

Not enough to know that we can be sure of the existence of the extension
is necessary to investigate if she is in reality as it senses it is
presented, and what I say about the extension can be applied to other
properties of bodies.

In my opinion, the only feeling that we moved abroad, and we can not to move, is the extension,
all others refer to objects, just as effects to causes, not original copies. The smell, taste, sound,
we do not represent anything that is similar to the objects that cause them, but the extension
itself: the attribute extension to objects, and we can not conceive
without it.

The sound out of me is not sound, it is not more than just a vibration of air, produced by the
vibration of a body, the taste out me, not taste, is nothing but applied to a body organ, and
causes a modification, mechanical or chemical, and likewise takes place with the smell. Even
in the light and colors outside me, there is but one fluid falling on a surface, and direct or
reflexive reached or can reach the eyes, but the extension out of me, regardless of any relationship
with the senses, it is true extension, is something whose existence and nature need my senses.
When I am, or when I imagine, between my impressions and she, more than just the relationship of an
effect to a cause: there is representation, image interior of what exists on the outside.

[49.] In order to fully understand and feel vividly the truth of what I of seating, I am going
to give the reader a picture of which are eliminated on certain feelings, making note the
degree of elimination and can be reached which is not passed.

Suppose that all the animals once they lose the sense of taste, or
that all natural bodies are removed from the property caused by contact
with an organ the sensation we call flavor.

Despite this the external world exists as before. The same bodies that cause us feelings now
lost, continue to exist and may be applied to the same body that previously affected, causing sensations
in that part of touch, as soft or hard, cold or hot, or similar.

O tasty or bodies animal organs have undergone some change, with which it has cut the relationship
that had before: it is noted that a cause which once produced an effect, is now powerless to produce
it. This may have happened by a modification of the bodies, which in no way alters their nature,
as we see it, and also may not have moved them, has occurred this difference with only the alteration
of the organs. But in any case, the disappearance of sensation, has not removed the universe
anything like it, if the alteration has been verified only in the organs, external bodies are
intact, and if you have place in the body, this alteration has made them lose a property that
causes the sensation, but not a property represented by the sensation.

Already deprived of food for all tastes: the universe exists as before privémosle its smells, altering
the body odor, or the organ of smell. What result? what same as we have noted with taste. Odoriferous
bodies continue to exist, and even send our bodies the fumes that once produced the sensation
of smell, not there will be more novelty than the non-existence of this feeling in our bodies
lack the disposition necessary to receive the impression, or the universe will be gone causality:
more Not one thing represented by the sensation.

The gardens will be stripped of its beauty symmetrical the meadows of its freshness and greenery:
the tree will hold its lush canopy, and beautiful fruit continue to monitor the branches swaying
in the wind.

Let us continue our work of destruction, suddenly deafening to all animals. The concert musicians become
actors in a silent pantomime, the ringer pulling the rope, the metal will spin dumb conversations
are reduced to gestures oral, the cries of the gross will be nothing but open and close mouths, but
the air vibrate as before, its columns will come to hurt the ear drum as before, all exist
as before: nothing missing in the universe but a feeling.

 To their surprise, half hidden by a fallen tree, they
discovered a difficult but practicable track down a gully which finally opened out into a broad
well-grassed valley of considerable extent, in which cattle and horses were grazing.

No signs of human habitation were at first visible, but after a patient search a cave in the
eastern angle of the range was discovered. Fires had been lighted habitually near the mouth,
and near a log two saddles and bridles--long unused--lay in the tall grass. Hard by was stretched
the body of a man of swarthy complexion. Upon examination the skull was found to be fractured,
as if by some blunt instrument. A revolver of small size lay on his right side.

Proceeding to the interior of the cave, which had evidently been used as a dwelling for many
years past, they came upon the corpse of another man, in a sitting posture, propped up against
the wall. One arm rested upon an empty spirit-keg, beside which were a tin pannikin and a few
rude cooking utensils. At his feet lay the skeleton of a dog. The whole group had evidently
been dead for a considerable time. Further search revealed large supplies of clothes, saddlery,
arms, and ammunition--all placed in recesses of the cave--besides other articles which would
appear to have been deposited in that secure receptacle many years since.

As may be imagined, a large amount of interest, and even excitement, was caused when the circumstances,
as reported to the police, became generally known. A number of our leading citizens, together
with many of the adjoining station holders, at once repaired to the spot. No difficulty was
felt in identifying the bodies as those of Ben Marston, the father of the two bush-rangers
of that name, and of Warrigal, the half-caste follower always seen in attendance upon the chief
of the gang, the celebrated Starlight.

How the last members of this well-known, long-dreaded gang of freebooters had actually perished
can only be conjectured, but taking the surrounding circumstances into consideration, and the
general impression abroad that Warrigal was the means of putting the police upon the track
of Richard Marston, which led indirectly to the death of his master and of James Marston, the
most probable solution would seem to be that, after a deep carouse, the old man had taxed Warrigal
with his treachery and brained him with the American axe found close to the body. He had apparently
then shot himself to avoid a lingering death, the bullet found in his body having been probably
fired by the half-caste as he was advancing upon him axe in hand.

The dog, well known by the name of Crib, was the property and constant companion of Ben Marston,
the innocent accomplice in many of his most daring stock-raids. Faithful unto the end, with
the deep, uncalculating love which shames so often that of man, the dumb follower had apparently
refused to procure food for himself, and pined to death at the feet of his dead master. Though
the philanthropist may regret the untimely and violent end of men whose courage and energy
fitted them for better things, it cannot be denied that the gain to society far exceeds the loss. Space since it is the vastness of God.
Adopted this theory there is no objection to the space infinite, eternal, indestructible.

[69.] This opinion is against him, which destroys the simplicity of God. If the space is a property
of God, God himself, because everything in God is God.

Then, being essentially extended space, God is also extensive.

Clarke saw the force of this argument, force also made him feel the argument Leibnitz opponent,
but responds to it in a very weak. Says that space has parts, but not separate. Then, whether
as may be, does. It is true that the idea of space distinguish the parties, without separating
them, but really conceive him, and without they do not conceive of space. In this case, what evidence
will be reduced for of the immateriality of the soul?

If the infinite wisdom could be extensive, why may not be even more so the human soul?

Pushed by his favorite idea, Clarke came to write what was not expected of a man like him. "In matters
of this nature, he says, when speaking of parties, the parties understand separable compound, and
separated, such as those of the substance, which for this reason is always a compound, and not a
simple substance. The matter is not a single substance but a compound substance. Therefore,
in my opinion, the matter is incapable of thought. This inability does not come from the extension,
but that its parts are distinct substances, seduce and independent from each other "(Excerpt
from a letter.) This explanation tends to spoil simplicity of the thinking, then, that for simplicity
has always understood the absolute lack of parts, not this or that
kind of party.

The inseparability does not destroy the existence of the parties, only affirms the strength of
their cohesion.

[70.] It would also be feared that this doctrine opened the door to pantheism. At the same Clarke
he objected and that her soul to God is to the world, and although this is defended charge,
however there is always a difficulty in walking were not proposed, and yet no less serious.
If no objection to say that God is space, or that space is a property
of God, what is opposed to it say that God is the world, or that the
world is a property of God?

If the world is large, so is the space, if for God and space are not contradictory things in
one being, why it will be God and the universe?

Clarke said that the bodies are composed of different substances, but what is known about nothing
but bodies that are large, and which give us some impressions? clear is that not. Well then,
God is not opposed to the extension, let alone the causality of the impressions, would have no
objection to say that what Clarke called distinct substances, not more that parts, or if you
want properties of the infinite substance. Newton came to say that space was the sensorium of
God, and although Clarke argues against the expression Leibnitz Newton
had a very rational sense, as there was only a comparison, however
the German philosopher insists such luck on this charge that it makes
itself known he had done a word such terrible effect.

[71.] Anything mixing God with nature, or put in communication perennial it, except with purest acts
of intellect and will, leads to a slope very slippery, which is difficult
not to rush to the bottom, and the fund is pantheism, which is but
one phase of atheism (II).

CHAPTER XI.

OPINION OF FENELON.

[72.] The opinion of Clarke has much resemblance to that of Fenelon, who in his Treatise the existence
and attributes of God explains the vastness, in a way that at first sight surprising. It reads:
"After having considered the eternity and immutability God, who are the same thing, I must examine
its immensity. Being itself is sovereign; and being sovereign, it is all being in itself, having
all being in itself, has no doubt the extension; the extension is
a way of being that I have idea.

I've seen that my ideas about essences of things are real degrees of being, which currently exist
in God, and are possible out of him, because he himself can produce, then the extension is in
God, and he can make it to the outside, but it has locked in the fullness of his being. "

To some extent Fenelon's words can be interpreted with a sense that it rejects the common of
the theologians. Distinguish these two kinds of perfection: some that do not involve any imperfection,
such as wisdom, holiness, justice, others involving some imperfection, such as those belonging
to the bodies, extension, etc. Fig. The first ones are also called perfection simpliciter, are in
God formaliter, that is, such as they are, therefore, that its very nature does not include
any imperfection class, and therefore be in God, nor diminish or disfigure its infinite perfection,
the second, which is also called secundum quid perfections are in God, not formaliter because
the imperfection that involve repugnant to the infinite perfection, but VirtualIT eminent that
is, that whatever they contain of perfection, of being found in God, perfection infinite, infinite,
and that for this reason, God can produce on the outside, with its creative omnipotence, but
as pre-exist in the infinite, are purged of all limitation, all imperfection,
and identified with the infinite essence, have a way of be far superior
to what they are in reality what has been expressed in the word imminent.

These perfections secundum quid, has always had the extension.

[73.] If the illustrious Archbishop of Cambrai was cinemas this sense, nothing should observe
with regard to his doctrine, but the words that follow seem to indicate that he was inclined to
the opinion of those who say that space is the very immensity of God, "Why then, continues,
do not call it extensive and corporeal? because there is so much difference, as I have noted,
between attribute to God all the positive of the extension, and attribute it to a limit or a
negation: who sets the limits extension without change the extension in immensity; who puts
the extension to a limit, makes the body nature. "From these words one might believe Fenelon not
distinguish that two modes of being of the extension, as do theologians and God gives all the
positive of the extension, only that it gives no limit. This appears prove that God is properly
extended, though with infinite extension. With all due respect you deserve the illustrious shadow
of one of the first ornaments of the Catholic Church of one of the greatest men of modern
times, I dare say that such opinion I do not sustainable. A vast God properly, even with infinite
extension, is not God what is essentially composed of large, God
is essentially simple: these are contradictory things.

[74.] But we hear the illustrious prelate continues to expose and defend his opinion of the
follows. "Since we do not put limits to the extension, you take away the figure, divisibility,
motion, impenetrability, figure, because this is nothing more than a way of being bounded by a surface,
the divisiveness, because it is infinite as we have seen, can not be diminished, and therefore
not divided, or compound, or divided, the motion because if we suppose that a whole has neither parts
nor limits, can not move from its place because there can be a place outside the true infinite
can not change the arrangement in the situation of its parts, because that is not being made,
the impenetrability finally, because the impenetrability is inconceivable conceived two bodies
limited of which one is not the other, and can not occupy the same space than the other. These two
bodies do not exist in Chapter infinite and indivisible, then it is not impenetrable. Settled
these principles, it follows that all the positive of the extension is in God, without any or
figuratively, or capable of movement, or divisible, or impenetrable,
or palpable or measurable.

"

For this passage is clearly that Fenelon was far to imagine a God compound a God with parts repeatedly,
and in a few lines, strictly denied, as was expected from their high penetration, and purity
of doctrine. But this, except that leaves of righteousness of intent, does not satisfy the conditions
of philosophical accuracy. For the moment I confess naively, that if the extension is to be taken
in the proper sense, can not imagine how removing also removes limits the parties, on the contrary,
it seems that an infinite extension have infinite parts. If is infinite, you will not figure, because
the idea of ​​figure is enclosed the limit, but if true extension will be like a huge fund that can
be drawn All figures imaginable. She will not itself own any picture, but will be the recipient
of all the figures, the endless high sea where all will emerge. What it is drawn, will be in
it, the points with which the figures are completed, it will be. Who does not see this, the parties,
the composition?

The infinite extension will be unable to set, not by their lack beginning, not because of its
simplicity, but for their endless parties, for their infinite composition.

I agree that an infinite extension is not divisible, if we mean to divide separate; because in that
everything would be great fulfillment in office with a fixity infinite. So we imagine the space
with stationary parts, instead of the whole movement, with its inseparable parts, field of all
separations, but it is not separation but of division, if there is
extension True, it is divisible: conceive of space to its parts together,
but divisible; because that measure, we count them, and with respect
to them, we formed idea of ​​the magnitude, distance and motion of
bodies.

[75.] These reflections so obvious and so conclusive, could not hide the penetration the illustrious philosopher,
who seems to prefer the inconsistency of language or the dark, at the fatal corollaries that
flow from the first proposition. Had said without equivocation or restrictions everything
positive that the extension was in God, except the limit, had said limit the extension was
corporeal, and to convert the extension into immensity sufficient to remove the limit, and
therefore attributed to God real extension, though infinite, and then trying to explain and strengthen
their teaching, says that this extension has no part. What is an extension without parties? Is
there anyone who can conceive? Does the extension does not involve by necessity, an order of things
of which the few are out of the other? This has always been understood, therefore speak of an extension
without parts, is to talk about an extension improperly said, when speaking of such extension,
not enough to say that has no limits Needless to say, is of another nature, that the term extension,
is taken in a sense completely different. This seems to know, in spite of the darkness of the
above words when you get up on the wings of his religion and his genius, and continues: "God
is not in any place or at any time, for its absolute and infinite being has no relation to the
to places and times, which are nothing more than to be limits and restrictions. Ask if beyond the
universe, if it exceeds the tips of this at length, breadth and depth; is to propose a question
as absurd as asking if it was before the world was and whether will be when the world is not.
Just as in God there can be no past or future, there can be no nor more here or beyond, the continued
succession excludes any measure, excludes the vast any measure of extension and has not been,
not is, not here, not there is no more beyond any limit: it is absolutely, all expressions that
refer to some term, set it somewhere, inappropriate and indecent. Where is it? he is, and is
so Thus, it is necessary to beware of asking where, what is nothing by halves, with boundaries
so is some thing, which is nothing but the same thing, but God is not just something unique
and restricted all, is being, or better said, to put it more simply: it is, the fewer words are said of
him, but things are expressed: it is, beware of adding anything. "

[76.] In these great words, and others that can read in the same place, the elevation and the
grandeur of ideas about God and His vastness makes you forget the difficulties against first
proposition, if not false, or inaccurate, is not as clearly expressed desirable. Therefore,
I dare not claim that his opinion coincides with that of Clarke,
as in the eloquent writer, poet Christian and the philosopher seems
to rectify.

CHAPTER XII.

WHAT IS DESCRIBED IN THE AREA.

[77.] We have seen that reason is not based on the opinion of Descartes,
which completely confused space with the body, making the essence
of this include the extension thereof, and stating that wherever we
conceive space, there is no body.

But perhaps nearer to the truth who say, that in fact the space is not more than the same extension
of the body; regardless of whether they constitute the essence of them, and also denying its
infinity.

[78.] Examine this opinion. Analyzing the generation of the idea of ​​space is which is nothing
more than the idea of ​​extension in the abstract.

If I have before me an orange, I can get through abstractions to the idea of ​​a pure extension,
equal to that of the orange.

To do this begin to dispense with its color, taste, smell, softness or hardness, and as may
affect my senses. So I have no more than an extended being, which, if you spoil mobility, is
reduced to a portion of space equal to the volume of the orange.

It is clear that these abstractions I can make over the entire universe: what will give me the
whole idea of ​​space is the universe.

[79.] Here I am going to drop a difficulty that can be opposed to this explanation of the idea
of space, and I'll take advantage of this opportunity to clarify
some as the origin of the idea infinite space, or is the imaginary
space.

The difficulty is this: the idea of ​​forming a volume of space by the simple abstraction qualities
that accompany the extension, more space is inconceivable that an equal volume the body on which
abstraction has been made. Then the abstraction made on a Orange will not give us more than a volume
of space equal to that of an orange, as well as made about the universe, no more than give us
a volume of space equal to conceive in universe. But this will never prove the idea of ​​limitless
space, which gives us whenever we think of space in itself.

Solution. Abstracting, dispense with the particular and we rise to the ordinary. If gold make
abstraction of the properties that are gold, and attend only to those which has as metal, I prefer a much
more tin, the metal, it is necessary not only to gold, but also to
all other metals.

With the abstraction I erased the boundary separating gold from other metals, and I formed an idea
that extends to all, not specified or exclude. If the idea of ​​metal, abstracts what is metal, and
I stand only to what is mineral, I wiped another limit, and the idea is more general yet. And
if going by the same ladder, step on the idea of ​​inorganic, body substance to be, shall have
reached a point where the idea is extended to all [1].

This will check to see that leads to the generalization abstraction, blurring on the boundaries
that distinguish and how to separate the objects. Applying this doctrine to the abstractions on bodies,
find the reason for the idea of ​​unlimited space.

When the abstractions made on the orange, I'm only with the idea of ​​extension, I have not yet led
to abstraction at the highest point possible, because not even conceive of the extension in itself,
but the extension of the orange: conceive of its length, not the extension. But if without
that your, if I stick to the extension itself, so the idea of ​​figure vanishes, the extension
is delayed indefinitely, I can not point to any term, because any limit would give me a specific
extension, a particular extension, no extension itself. Then withdrawn as it borders the universe,
for by large this is, in reaching a limit, provides a particular extension, not the same extension.
Here's how it seems to engender in us the idea of ​​imaginary spaces.

[80.] This is explained by the simple order of understanding, we can
confirm with the observation of the phenomena of the imagination.

When I imagine the course of an orange I imagine a limit to this or that color, in this or that quality:
as one can not imagine contained no lines that end. This limit to our imagination, something is different
enclosing the extension and the extension of separating the enclosed, as if we are not submit
to feature something, we could not imagine him as a limit, would not fill its object being
to distinguish that which limits us. Then abstraction is not complete; because in the mind there
is still something very specific, which are the lines that are the limit. Delete these limits,
and expands the imagination, and in proportion as the limits removed,
it expands again, to sink into a sort of dark abyss, without end,
as we imagine the universe beyond.

Will clarify this explanation with a simple example. Our imagination is similar to a blackboard
that is painted a figure. When the wax see the white line, which is the figure, see also figure,
but if we delete the line, we are left with uniform Figure all the
wax.

And if we assume that the lines are removed indefinitely Ended waxed
look in vain for a figure, we have no more than a black surface to
be extended indefinitely.

Behold quite like the manner in which the imagination is born of
endless space.

[81.] When we ask for the extension of the idea in the abstract, yet
complete, we something contradictory.

The limit to the extension removes the generality destroys the generality the limit. There
is no abstract idea of ​​extension as limit.

After designing the extension in all its abstraction, conceive the extension without limit, and trying
the imagination to further the understanding, imagine an indefinite space.

[82.] Summarize this doctrine and deducing their consequences, we could say:

1.

No. That space is not more than the extension of the body itself.

2. º That the idea of ​​space is the idea of ​​the extension.

3. º That the different parts conceived in space, are the ideas of particular extensions, where
we have dispensed with their limits.

4. º That the idea of ​​infinite space, is the idea of ​​extension in all its generality, and thus ignoring
the limit.

5. º That the imagination of an indefinite space necessarily born of the effort of the imagination destroying
the boundaries, following the progress of generalization of understanding.

6. No. That where there is no body space.

7. No. That what is called distance is not nothing but the interposition of a body.

8. No. That all intermediate body disappearing, no distance, no immediacy because there contact,
by absolute necessity.

9. º that if two bodies alone in the universe is metaphysically impossible that distension each
other.

10. No. That big empty or small, coacervate or spread, it is absolutely impossible.

[83.] These are the consequences that follow from the doctrine set
forth in this chapter.

If the reader asks me what I think about them, and the principle
on which lie, confess naively, that although the principle seems true
and legitimate consequences, however, the strangeness of some of them,
and still more those of others that will be noticed in what follows,
I instill suspicion that the principle is hiding an error, or that
the reasoning inferred with the consequences, there is a flaw that
is not easily noticed.

Thus, more well present a series of conjectures and reasonings to support them, not a review well
established. With this, the reader will understand what I mean by the word demonstration, when
used hereinafter to see it again and again, being the deduction of some very strange consequences,
rather than in my opinion worthy of attention.

Say this, not just to explain what happens in my mind, but also to warn the reader against undue
reliance on these matters, whatever the opinion is adopted. Before to begin research on space and
I note that in these matters offer arguments in the opposite direction, they appear to be
equally conclusive, indicating that human reason reaches its limits, and the suspicion that
the investigation leaves the sphere is adhered to the spirit, for some primary condition of its
nature.

Anyway, let us continue guessing, and since we can not go beyond certain limits, we exercise understanding
the scroll in all its extension. So when we are on land high, encircled the bottomless abyss,
we are happy to walk around the circumference, looking at the immense depth beneath our feet.

I am now going to deduce other results, dropping in reaching the difficulties that are offered;
and making some applications whose immense significance produces
uncertainty and inspires timidity.

CHAPTER XIII.

NEW CHALLENGES.

[84.] If space is but the extension of the same bodies, the extension
will lack of container, ie have no place to stand.

This seems to be in contradiction with our most common ideas, as through what we conceive a thing
extensive, we think also the need for a place equal to it, which
can fit and position.

This difficulty, at first sight very serious,
very easily fades, denying that everything extensive need a different
place it in to register. What is this place? Is an extension where
it fits. Now, this extension or place, it must turn to another extension
that register, or not? if the first thing I will say the same about
the new place, which place the First, and so on to infinity. This
is clearly impossible, and therefore we agree that it is false that
any extension that needs another extension to register. And the extension
of space there would need another extension, just as the extension
the bodies did not need the space: there is no difference between
the two cases, then the need for a place for all extension, is an
imaginary thing that contradicts reason. Then the extension itself
can exist, then there is no objection to the bodies thus exists.

[85.]
What then must be the change of place? Nothing else but changing bodies
the respective position. This explains the movement.

Suppose three
bodies A, B, C, located in space: their distance are not more than
other bodies brought. The change occurs a new position, will movement.

[86.]
After a single body can not move. Because the motion involves necessarily
the run away, and no distance when there is only one body.

This result
at first sight it seems absurd, for going against our way of feeling,
and imagine However, if we examine with attention the same way to
imagine and feel, we see that our spirit phenomena are in accord with
this theory.

The movement does not mean anything to us, not sense,
is not perceived in any way, when we can not relate to the position
of different bodies together. Just as we were going into the church who should come rattling up on horseback but
Maddie Barnes and her husband--Mrs. Moreton, as she was now, with a bright-looking boy of ten
or eleven on a pony. She jumps off and gives the bridle to him. She looked just the same as
ever, a trifle stouter, but the same saucy look about the eyes. 'Well, Dick Marston,' says
she, 'how are you? Glad to see you, old man. You've got him safe at last, Gracey, and I wish
you joy. You came to Bella's wedding, Dick, and so I thought I'd come to yours, though you
kept it so awful quiet. How d'ye think the old horse looks?'

'Why, it's never Rainbow?' says I. 'It's twelve years and over since I saw him last.'

'I didn't care if it was twenty,' said she. 'Here he is, and goes as sound as a bell. His poor
old teeth are getting done, but he ain't the only one that way, is he, Joe? He'll never die
if I can keep him alive. I have to give him corn-meal, though, so as he can grind it easy.'

'I believe she thinks more of that old moke than me and the children all put together,' says
Joe Moreton.

'And why shouldn't I?' says Maddie, facing round at him just the old way. 'Isn't he the finest
horse that ever stood on legs, and didn't he belong to the finest gentleman that you or any
one else looked at? Don't say a word against him, for I can't stand it. I believe if you was
to lay a whip across that old horse in anger I'd go away and leave you, Joe Moreton, just as
if you was a regular black stranger. Poor Rainbow! Isn't he a darling?' Here she stroked the
old horse's neck. He was rolling fat, and had a coat like satin. His legs were just as clean
as ever, and he stood there as if he heard everything, moving his old head up and down the
way he always did--never still a moment. It brought back old times, and I felt soft enough,
I tell you. Maddie's lips were trembling again, too, and her eyes like two coals of fire. As
for Joe, he said nothing more, and the best thing too. The boy led Rainbow over to the fence,
and old George walked us all into the church, and that settled things.

After the words were said we all went back to George's together, and Maddie and her husband
drank a glass of wine to our health, and wished us luck. They rode as far as the turn off to
Rocky Flat with us, and then took the Turon road.

'Good-bye, Dick,' says Maddie, bending down over the old horse's neck. 'You've got a stunning
good wife now, if ever any man had in the whole world. Mind you're an A1 husband, or we'll
all round on you, and your life won't be worth having; and I've got the best horse in the country,
haven't I? See where the bullet went through his poor neck. There's no lady in the land got
one that's a patch on him. Steady, now, Rainbow, we'll be off in a minute. You shall see my
little Jim there take him over a hurdle yard. He can ride a bit, as young as he is. Pity poor
old Jim ain't here to-day, isn't it, Dick? Think of him being cold in his grave now, and we
here. Well, it's no use crying, is it?'

And off went Maddie at a pace that gave Joe and the boy all they knew to catch her.

    .   .   .   .   .

We're to live here for a month or two till I get used to outdoor work and the regular old bush
life again. There's no life like it, to my fancy. Then we start, bag and baggage, for one of
George's Queensland stations, right away up on the Barcoo, that I'm to manage and have a share in.

It freshens me up to think of making a start in a new country. It's a long way from where we
were born and brought up; but all the better for that. Of course they'll know about me; but
in any part of Australia, once a chap shows that he's given up cross doings and means to go
straight for the future, the people of the country will always lend him a helping hand, particularly
if he's married to such a wife as Gracey. I'm not afraid of any of my troubles in the old days
being cast up to me; and men are so scarce and hard to get west of the Barcoo that no one that
once had Dick Marston's help at a muster is likely to remind him of such an old story as that
of 'Robbery Under Arms'.

                                    THE END

 Notes on the text:

 General:

 The original serial of this story had roughly 29,000 more words than
 the version given here, but it should be noted that this version is the
 standard text that has been widely available since then.

 The combination of this story being a serial, with cuts from the
 original which may not have been perfectly executed, has led to a few
 discrepancies. Thus, in Chapter 2 it is mentioned that Patsey Daly
 was hanged, but in Chapter 44 the same character is shot to death. In
 Chapter 42, Starlight (as Mr. Lascelles) dances with Maddie Barnes one
 night, and the next day (in the same disguise) she does not recognise
 him. And then there are some gaps: In Chapter 24, the story line
 suddenly jumps from a scene where the characters are riding to the
 Hollow, to a discussion about selling horses. In Chapter 31, Dick
 Marston says "I did live to do her [Maddie Barnes] a good turn back..."
 but there seems to be nothing later in the story worth mentioning in
 this line. In Chapter 35, a reference is made to "old Mr. Devereux's
 box", which was apparently discovered in Chapter 22 or 23, but cut out
 from this edition.

 The story is still quite readable and enjoyable despite these things,
 but they are mentioned so that the interested reader may look further
 (if they desire) into obtaining an edition which includes the complete
 text in the original Newspaper serial; and to give a general idea what
 sort of things might have been cut.

 "Captain Starlight" was the name used by a real bushranger, Frank
 Pearson (1837-99), but Boldrewood claimed that his "Starlight" was a
 composite based in part on "Captain Midnight" and Harry Redford (ca.
 1842 to 1901), the latter of which stole a herd of cattle in a
 similar manner to that described in the book. The factual events
 that contributed to the story took place in the late 1860's and
 other periods; but Boldrewood set his story in the 1850's. The name
 "Starlight" is also used in Adam Lindsay Gordon's famous poem, "The Sick
 Stockrider".

 "Warrigal", the name of the half-caste character, is also an Australian
 term for the Dingo, or native dog.

 A couple other famous highwaymen are alluded to in the story.

      Dick Turpin, who is mentioned twice, was an English
      highwayman, 1706-39. There is apparently a legendary ride
      from London to York that is popularly attributed to him, the
      idea being that he established an alibi by covering the
      distance so swiftly after a robbery.

      Claude Duval was famous for being gallant to women. 

The magistrates, possessed of an insatiable ambition and useless with large deals, which were demanding
payment through the most tyrannical egecuciones, to the detriment of the laws and justice,
they had been cast in some provinces do eyeglasses, powder blue cards, instruction booklets
for the egercicio of infantry, and other genres, which far to serve utility, were burdensome
and harmful. On the other hand were seen also harassed of priests, no less cruel than the magistrates
for the collection of their perquisites that increased to infinity, inventing new and expensive
saints' script with which they made overgrow temporary gain, because if the Indian did not satisfy
the rights owed, and fastened when he attended the doctrine and to the explanation of the
gospel, and came to both the evil, which is embargoed their own children, holding them until they
are verified the entire satisfaction of the debt, which had regularly been getting by force the same
pastor.

Sometimes the Indians had previously expressed these righteous resentment resulting in the alteration
of several provinces, resisting and killing their magistrates, as in the Yungas of Chulumani,
ruling the Marquis of Villahermosa, which found it necessary, after having killed his Solascasas
dependent, to contain the weapons, which caused him to act. So also in Chumbilvicas Pacajes
and where removed lives to their magistrates, Castillo and Sugastegui, committing other excesses,
indicating a vast project, which would caution long and meditation, to throw off the yoke.

Whether it was weary and oppressed of the extortion and violence, tolerated, or insulted and
moved in a spirit of sedition that sowed the defendant Tomas Catari, with the specious pretext have
managed to cut taxes, rose to such a furious momentum, which in short time the fire burned all
the provinces. In the village of Pocoata, Province Chayanta declared the sedition, and giving the
Indians killed many Spanish, seized his sheriff D. Joaquin Alos, which retained in the village of
Macha, as hostages, to request insolent freedom of their leader Catari, and as the need arises throughout
the armed forces power, is irreparable damage resistance, was forced to save that life, was freed
from the punishment the offender Catari, achieving ease of prison soon it was: either because
the danger time presses, to induce prudence do not dwell on formalities, nor risk the public
quiet the scruples of authority or longer because unaccustomed to the Judges of Charcas had
to respect wastage their persons, suspicious forward pass bold, and saw diminished submission
excessively fastidious and have always intended.


 World--"Full of good passages, passages abounding in vivacity, in the
 colour and play of life.... The pith of the book lies in its singularly
 fresh and vivid pictures of the humours of the gold-fields,--tragic
 humours enough they are, too, here and again...."

 Manchester Examiner--"The characters are sketched with real life and
 picturesqueness. Mr. Boldrewood accomplishes the very difficult feat of
 enabling his readers not only to understand the bewildering complexities
 of mining law, but to be interested in the situations which arise out of
 their operation, while his fund of incident seems to be large enough
 to meet all the demands made upon it. By
late Austrian dynasty which had ruled over the world's best, Madrid was (let me vulgar expression) a cattle
pen. Where were the palaces, temples, monuments, statues? Anywhere. What we spend the wealth
of America? What used the loot of the subjugated peoples?

The destitution we worked so much or more than in the day, and humbled us destitution and made
us lowering of the height at which we had set.

On this day, the upward movement of European civilization itself bears us, and can not be denied
that in the midst of a thousand disappointments, one thousand two
hundred thousand troubles and mortifications of national pride, Spain
progresses and improves, but it costs good whipping.

Clumsiness in producing and slurred spend more to blame for these scourges.

I am a rabid theoretical free-forex trader. Bastiat and Cobden have convinced me, but in I'm
scared practice of free trade. What is in Spain that can compete freely with foreign products?
The wine perhaps, and with everything except the sherry, the other wine Spanish usually go
to France, I throw a little juice of berries, and alum root lily, and we will re-sell, giving
us a single bottle in the price we receive one or two or three arrobas.
That is, we take fifty or sixty bottles with the same liquid, with
the slight modification of the alchemist or apothecary.

 Saturday Review--"Mr. Boldrewood can tell what he knows with great point
 and vigour, and there is no better reading than the adventurous parts of
 his books."

