I am so happy that I feel as if something were going to spoil it all. Twenty years old to-day!
I wish mamma were alive to wish me many happy returns.

The cathedral is very beautiful in itself, and its situation is beyond all words of mine to
describe. I greatly admired the pulpit, which is supported by five pillars sunk into the backs
of squashed lions; but Mr. Copley, when I asked him the period, said, 'Pure Brummagem!'

There is a nice old cell for refractory monks, that we agreed will be a lovely place for Mrs.
Benedict if we can lose her in it. She arrives as soon as they can find room for her at the
Three Tuns.

Memoranda:--Casual remark for breakfast-table or perhaps for luncheon--it is a trifle heavy
for breakfast: 'Since the sixteenth century, and despite the work of Inigo Jones and the great
Wren (not Jenny Wren: Christopher), architecture has had, in England especially, no legitimate
development.' This is the only cathedral with a Bishop's Throne or a Sanctuary Knocker.

       *       *       *       *       *

He

    Durham, July 19.

O child of fortune, thy name is J. Q. Copley! How did it happen to be election time? Why did
the inns chance to be full? How did Aunt Celia relax sufficiently to allow me to find her a
lodging? Why did she fall in love with the lodging when found? I do not know. I only know Fate
smiles; that Kitty and I eat our morning bacon and eggs together; that I carve Kitty's cold
beef and pour Kitty's sparkling ale at luncheon; that I go to matins with Kitty, and dine with
Kitty, and walk in the gloaming with Kitty--and Aunt Celia. And after a day of heaven like
this, like Lorna Doone's lover--ay, and like every other lover, I suppose--I go to sleep, and
the roof above me swarms with angels, having Kitty under it.

She was so beautiful on Sunday. She has been wearing her favourite browns and primroses through
the week, but on Sunday she blossomed into blue and white, topped by a wonderful hat, whose
brim was laden with hyacinths. She sat on the end of a seat in the nave, and there was a capped
and gowned crowd of university students in the transept. I watched them and they watched her.
She has the fullest, whitest eyelids, and the loveliest lashes. When she looks down I wish
she might never look up, and when she looks up I am never ready for her to look down. If it
had been a secular occasion, and she had dropped her handkerchief, seven-eighths of the students
would have started to pick it up--but I should have got there first! Well, all this is but
a useless prelude, for there are facts to be considered--delightful, warm, breathing facts!

We were coming home from evensong, Kitty and I. (I am anticipating, for she was still 'Miss
Schuyler' then, but never mind.) We were walking through the fields, while Mrs. Benedict and
Aunt Celia were driving. As we came across a corner of the bit of meadow land that joins the
stable and the garden, we heard a muffled roar, and as we looked around we saw a creature with
tossing horns and waving tail making for us, head down, eyes flashing. Kitty gave a shriek.
We chanced to be near a pair of low bars. I hadn't been a college athlete for nothing. I swung
Kitty over the bars, and jumped after her. But she, not knowing in her fright where she was
nor what she was doing, supposing also that the mad creature, like the villain in the play,
would 'still pursue her,' flung herself bodily into my arms, crying, 'Jack! Jack! save me!'

It was the first time she had called me 'Jack,' and I needed no second invitation. I proceeded
to save her, in the usual way, by holding her to my heart and kissing her lovely hair reassuringly
as I murmured:

'You are safe, my darling; not a hair of your precious head shall be hurt. Don't be frightened.'

She shivered like a leaf.

'I am frightened,' she said; 'I can't help being frightened. He will chase us, I know. Where
is he? What is he doing now?'

Looking up to determine if I need abbreviate this blissful moment, I saw the enraged animal
disappearing in the side-door of the barn; and it was a nice, comfortable Durham cow, that
somewhat rare but possible thing--a sportive cow.

'Is he gone?' breathed Kitty from my waistcoat.

'Yes, he is gone--she is gone, darling. But don't move; it may come again.'

My first too hasty assurance had calmed Kitty's fears, and she raised her charming flushed
face from its retreat and prepared to withdraw. I did not facilitate the preparations, and
a moment of awkward silence ensued.

'Might I inquire,' I asked, 'if the dear little person at present reposing in my arms will
stay there (with intervals for rest and refreshment) for the rest of her natural life?'

She withdrew entirely now, all but her hand, and her eyes sought the ground.

'I suppose I shall have to--that is, if you think--at least, I suppose you do think--at any
rate, you look as if you were thinking--that this has been giving you encouragement.'

'I do indeed--decisive, undoubted, bare-faced encouragement.'

'I don't think I ought to be judged as if I were in my sober senses,' she replied. 'I was frightened
within an inch of my life. I told you this morning that I was dreadfully afraid of bulls, especially
mad ones, and I told you that my nurse frightened me, when I was a child, with awful stories
about them, and that I never outgrew my childish terror. I looked everywhere about. The barn
was too far, the fence too high; I saw him coming, and there was nothing but you and the open
country. Of course, I took you. It was very natural, I'm sure; any girl would have done it.'

'To be sure,' I replied soothingly, 'any girl would have run after me, as you say.'

'I didn't say any girl would have run after you--you needn't flatter yourself; and besides,
I think I was really trying to protect you as well as to gain protection, else why should I
have cast myself on you like a catamount, or a catacomb, or whatever the thing is?'

'Yes, darling, I thank you for saving my life, and I am willing to devote the remainder of
it to your service as a pledge of my gratitude; but if you should take up life-saving as a
profession, dear, don't throw yourself on a fellow with--'

'Jack! Jack!' she cried, putting her hand over my lips, and getting it well kissed in consequence.
'If you will only forget that, and never, never taunt me with it afterwards, I'll--I'll--well,
I'll do anything in reason--yes, even marry you!'

       *       *       *       *       *

He

    Canterbury, July 31,
        The Royal Fountain.

I was never sure enough of Kitty, at first, to dare risk telling her about that little mistake
of hers. She is such an elusive person that I spend all my time in wooing her, and can never
lay the flattering unction to my soul that she is really won.

But after Aunt Celia had looked up my family record and given a provisional consent, and Papa
Schuyler had cabled a reluctant blessing, I did not feel capable of any further self-restraint.

It was twilight here in Canterbury, and we were sitting on the vine-shaded veranda of Aunt
Celia's lodging. Kitty's head was on my shoulder. There is something very queer about that;
when Kitty's head is on my shoulder, I am not capable of any consecutive train of thought.
When she puts it there I see stars, then myriads of stars, then, oh! I can't begin to enumerate
the steps by which ecstasy mounts to delirium; but, at all events, any operation which demands
exclusive use of the intellect is beyond me at these times. Still, I gathered my stray wits
together, and said:

'Kitty!'

'Yes, Jack?'

'Now that nothing but death or marriage can separate us, I have something to confess to you.'

'Yes,' she said serenely, 'I know what you are going to say. He was a cow.'

I lifted her head from my shoulder sternly, and gazed into her childlike, candid eyes.

'You mountain of deceit! How long have you known about it?'

'Ever since the first. Oh, Jack, stop looking at me in that way! Not the very first, not when
I--not when you--not when we--no, not then, but the next morning, I said to Farmer Hendry,
"I wish you would keep your savage bull chained up while we are here; Aunt Celia is awfully
afraid of them, especially those that go mad, like yours!" "Lor', miss!" said Farmer Hendry,
"he haven't been pastured here for three weeks. I keep him six mile away. There ben't nothing
but gentle cows in the home medder." But I didn't think that you knew, you secretive person!
I dare say you planned the whole thing in advance, in order to take advantage of my fright!'

'Never! I am incapable of such an unnecessary subterfuge! Besides, Kitty, I could not have
made an accomplice of a cow, you know.'

'Then,' she said, with great dignity, 'if you had been a gentleman and a man of honour, you
would have cried, "Unhand me, girl! You are clinging to me under a misunderstanding!"'

She

    Chester, August 8,
        The Grosvenor.

Jack and I are going over this same ground next summer on our wedding journey. We shall sail
for home next week, and we haven't half done justice to the cathedrals. After the first two,
we saw nothing but each other on a general background of architecture. I hope my mind is improved,
but oh, I am so hazy about all the facts I have read since I knew Jack! Winchester and Salisbury
stand out superbly in my memory. They acquired their ground before it was occupied with other
matters. I shall never forget, for instance, that Winchester has the longest spire and Salisbury
the highest nave of all the English cathedrals. And I shall never forget so long as I live
that Jane Austen and Isaac Newt-- Oh dear! was it Isaac Newton or Izaak Walton that was buried
in Winchester and Salisbury? To think that that interesting fact should have slipped from my
mind, after all the trouble I took with it! But I know that it was Isaac somebody, and that
he was buried in--well, he was buried in one of those two places. I am not certain which, but
I can ask Jack; he is sure to know.

THE END

BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD

A Selection of Gift-Books

PUBLISHED BY GAY AND BIRD, 22 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, LONDON.

The books in this list can be seen at the chief Booksellers, but in any case Gay and Bird will
arrange to send any on approval to the nearest book-store, to suit the convenience of book-buyers,
upon receipt of postcard.

HOLIDAY EDITION. Illustrated by Charles E. Brock. Price 6s.

PENELOPE'S ENGLISH EXPERIENCES.

By KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN.

HOLIDAY EDITION. Uniform with the above and illustrated by Charles E. Brock. Price 6s.

PENELOPE'S EXPERIENCES IN SCOTLAND.

Over 150,000 copies of these two works have been sold in England and America, and the unanimous
opinion of the World's Press is expressed in the word 'DELIGHTFUL.'

'The reader is kept entertained in the brightest fashion throughout.... A true humorist.'--Literary
World.

'The most charming holiday book possible.'--Methodist Times.

'One of the very best holiday books.'--Sketch.

'So genial and jolly a book about Scotland is seldom written.'--Glasgow Herald.

'A delightful book, full of dainty humour and picturesque fun.'--World.

'Sure of a hearty welcome.'--Spectator.

'She is what is always and everywhere rare--a real humorist.'--Graphic.

'Penelope, Francesca, and Salemina leave Max O'Rell far behind, and might take the prize for
innocent fun even from Mr. Jerome.'--Dundee Advertiser.

'Irresistibly funny.'--Glasgow Daily Mail.

'Always a pleasure to read Mrs. Wiggin's books.'--Daily Telegraph.

'Mrs. Wiggin has a fund of genuine and refined humour that is simply irresistible.'--Pall Mall
Gazette.

'It is seldom that we have read a more delightful and humorous book than this.'--Church Times.

OTHER BOOKS BY KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN

=Penelope's Irish Experiences.=

Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 6s.

=A Cathedral Courtship.=

A New Edition, revised and enlarged. With six full-page Drawings by Charles E. Brock. Crown
8vo., 104 pages, cloth, 2s. 6d., or cloth gilt extra, with gilt edges, 3s. 6d.

=Marm Liza.=

Crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 6s.

Baron de Bookworms says: 'It is a story told with that rare combination of humour and pathos
that is genius.'

'Mrs. Wiggin has never written a better book, unless it be "Timothy's Quest."'--Queen.

=Polly Oliver's Problem. A Story for Girls.=

Fourth Edition. With eight illustrations, crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

'No page will be skipped; surely Louisa Alcott has at last found a successor.'--Scottish Leader.

=A Summer in a Cañon. A California Story.=

Illustrated, crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d.

'The work is a fresh and charming tale of country life in California, full of good spirits
and healthy thoughts.'--Scotsman.

=Village Watch Tower.=

Crown 8vo., cloth, tastefully bound, 3s. 6d.

Mr. W. L. Courtney, in the Daily Telegraph, says: 'It is the exquisite felicity of the whole
which strikes the reader; hardly a word too much, not a colour or a pencil-stroke amiss.'

=The Story of Patsy.=

Fifty-seventh Thousand. Illustrated, crown 8vo., cloth back, 1s. 6d.

=The Birds' Christmas Carol.=

One Hundred and Fiftieth Thousand. Eight charming illustrations, crown 8vo., cloth back, 1s. 6d.

=Timothy's Quest.=

Popular Edition. Ninety-sixth Thousand. Illustrated by Oliver Herford. Crown 8vo., tastefully
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

'The book is an almost perfect idyll. It is the best thing of the kind that has reached us
from America since "Little Lord Fauntleroy" crossed the Atlantic.'--Punch.

=Modern Daughters.=

Being Conversations with various American Girls and One Man. By Alexander Black. Profusely
illustrated with designs and photographs by the Author. Royal 8vo., elegantly bound in silk
cloth, with charming cameo portrait on side, 10s. 6d. net.

'Particularly fresh and original in idea is "Modern Daughters." Mr. Black has written some
exceedingly clever conversations, which give us verbal pictures, so to speak, of some characteristic
types of American womanhood. The chapters called "With a Gym Girl" and "With a Club Woman"
are specially successful. There is a perception and a sense of humour about them which make
them not only delightful to read, but worth thinking about afterwards. The illustrations, which
are excellent, consist mainly of portraits which would be recognised at once by anyone familiar
with the American Society of to-day--a fact which should make the book interesting to American
women in London. The volume is well and prettily bound, and its "get-up" is admirable. It is
quite a book to possess.'--World.

=The Ancient Mariner. A Choice Gift Book.=

By S. T. Coleridge. With six full-page illustrations reproduced in photogravure, and other
text illustrations by Herbert Cole. Foolscap 4to. Printed on one side of the paper only, by
T. and A. Constable, on a special antique wove paper, cloth, richly gilt side design, 5s. net.

ÉDITION DE LUXE, printed on hand-made paper and bound in half-vellum. Limited to 200 copies,
10s. 6d. net.

'The one thing that can justify this re-issue of Coleridge's classic poem is the excellent
illustrative work done by Mr. Cole.'--King.

'Nearly every feature of this little book is tasteful and appropriate. Praise is due to the
typography, paper, and binding, and, above all, to Mr. Cole's highly dramatic and spirited
designs, of which the best shows the bride, her groom, and the "merry minstrelsy" entering
the hall.'--Athenæum.

