 "And who asked you, Captain Broughton?" she answered, smiling.  "If
the journey was too much for your poor London strength, could you not
have waited till to-morrow morning, when you would have found me at the
parsonage?"  But she did not draw her hand away from him, or in any way
pretend that he had not a right to accost her as a lover.

"No, I could not wait.  I am more eager to see those I love than you seem to be."

"How do you know whom I love, or how eager I might be to see them? There is an old woman there
whom I love, and I have thought nothing of this walk with the object of seeing her."  And now,
slowly drawing her hand away from him, she pointed to the farmhouse which she had left.

"Patty," he said, after a minute's pause, during which she had looked full into his face with
all the force of her bright eyes; "I have come from London to-day, straight down here to Oxney,
and from my aunt's house close upon your footsteps after you, to ask you that one question--Do
you love me?"

"What a Hercules!" she said, again laughing.  "Do you really mean that you left London only
this morning?  Why, you must have been five hours in a railway carriage and two in a postchaise,
not to talk of the walk afterwards.  You ought to take more care of yourself, Captain Broughton!"

He would have been angry with her--for he did not like to be quizzed-- had she not put her
hand on his arm as she spoke, and the softness of her touch had redeemed the offence of her words.

"All that I have done," said he, "that I may hear one word from you."

"That any word of mine should have such potency!  But let us walk on, or my father will take
us for some of the standing stones of the moor. How have you found your aunt?  If you only
knew the cares that have sat on her dear shoulders for the last week past, in order that your
high mightiness might have a sufficiency to eat and drink in these desolate half-starved regions!"

"She might have saved herself such anxiety.  No one can care less for such things than I do."

"And yet I think I have heard you boast of the cook of your club."  And then again there was
silence for a minute or two.

"Patty," said he, stopping again in the path; "answer my question.  I have a right to demand
an answer.  Do you love me?"

"And what if I do?  What if I have been so silly as to allow your perfections to be too many
for my weak heart?  What then, Captain Broughton?"

"It cannot be that you love me, or you would not joke now."

"Perhaps not, indeed," she said.  It seemed as though she were resolved not to yield an inch
in her own humour.  And then again they walked on.

"Patty," he said once more, "I shall get an answer from you to-night,-- this evening; now,
during this walk, or I shall return to-morrow, and never revisit this spot again."

"Oh, Captain Broughton, how should we ever manage to live without you?"

"Very well," he said; "up to the end of this walk I can hear it all;-- and one word spoken
then will mend it all."

During the whole of this time she felt that she was ill-using him.  She knew that she loved
him with all her heart; that it would nearly kill her to part with him; that she had heard
his renewed offer with an ecstacy of joy.  She acknowledged to herself that he was giving proof
of his devotion as strong as any which a girl could receive from her lover.  And yet she could
hardly bring herself to say the word he longed to hear.  That word once said, and then she
knew that she must succumb to her love for ever!  That word once said, and there would be nothing
for her but to spoil him with her idolatry!  That word once said, and she must continue to
repeat it into his ears, till perhaps he might be tired of hearing it!  And now he had threatened
her, and how could she speak after that?  She certainly would not speak it unless he asked
her again without such threat.  And so they walked on in silence.

"Patty," he said at last.  "By the heavens above us you shall answer me.  Do you love me?"

She now stood still, and almost trembled as she looked up into his face.  She stood opposite
to him for a moment, and then placing her two hands on his shoulders, she answered him.  "I
do, I do, I do," she said, "with all my heart; with all my heart--with all my heart and strength."
And then her head fell upon his breast.

* * *

Captain Broughton was almost as much surprised as delighted by the warmth of the acknowledgment
made by the eager-hearted passionate girl whom he now held within his arms.  She had said it
now; the words had been spoken; and there was nothing for her but to swear to him over and
over again with her sweetest oaths, that those words were true--true as her soul.  And very
sweet was the walk down from thence to the parsonage gate.  He spoke no more of the distance
of the ground, or the length of his day's journey. That the was a while. Perhaps Mrs. Taylor had
borrowed the it. But had so it was something to repeat. You revolved it over in mind, off and
on her. Thus Mister. Taylor read a little aloud to Title. Mill, while Mr. Taylor took the a-needed
interval in a nook. A helpmeet must grow by the being. Mr. Mill wicket till fine face have led
his delight at the being. All help is long.

"" one eye was closer than much mutual-- her head had corners-- she
transport her chin in!

"John Stuart Mill care a day would not haul home; after meal he would go and call on Mrs. Taylor,
and inquire her stopped up to explain what have she intend by all help being
it was a other!

The Taylors were therefore complete cuppa when little Mr. Mill. She were surprised and delighted
days to downright see. He was the bit has embarrass, but could not almost forget what he was
he wanted to such Mrs. Morrow, and he finally got around to something else anyhow as useful. Summer.
Taylor had written own cannot on the" Subjugation of Female "--
would be Night Finery take it just with him and read it, or he would
he would like she to learn her read a young till it now?

Just, and the woman grows as i husband grows-- she can not stand if
she puts forth intelligent effort." to help and a is to help yourself.
In the Mr. Parsonage stopped to return might Raillery.

Taylor'element manuscript
and leave another little essay as he himself had told on a mutual
theme.

"Oh!  I am to keep that for London, am I?  But, nevertheless, Captain Broughton, I will not
invite you either to tea or to supper to-night."

"Surely I may shake hands with your father."

"Not to-night--not till--John, I may tell him, may I not?  I must tell him at once."

"Certainly," said he.

"And then you shall see him to-morrow.  Let me see--at what hour shall I bid you come?"

"To breakfast."

"No, indeed.  What on earth would your aunt do with her broiled turkey and the cold pie?  I
have got no cold pie for you."

"I hate cold pie."

"What a pity!  But, John, I should be forced to leave you directly after breakfast.  Come down--come
down at two, or three; and then I will go back with you to Aunt Penelope.  I must see her to-morrow;"
and so at last the matter was settled, and the happy Captain, as he left her, was hardly resisted
in his attempt to press her lips to his own.

When she entered the parlour in which her father was sitting, there still were Gribbles and
Poulter discussing some knotty point of Devon lore.  So Patience took off her hat, and sat
herself down, waiting till they should go.  For full an hour she had to wait, and then Gribbles
and Poulter did go.  But it was not in such matters as this that Patience Woolsworthy was impatient.
She could wait, and wait, and wait, curbing herself for weeks and months, while the thing waited
for was in her eyes good; but she could not curb her hot thoughts or her hot words when things
came to be discussed which she did not think to be good.

"Papa," she said, when Gribbles' long-drawn last word had been spoken at the door.  "Do you
remember how I asked you the other day what you would say if I were to leave you?"

"Yes, surely," he replied, looking up at her in astonishment.

"I am going to leave you now," she said.  "Dear, dearest father, how am I to go from you?"

"Going to leave me," said he, thinking of her visit to Helpholme, and thinking of nothing else.

Now, there had been a story about Helpholme.  That bedridden old lady there had a stalwart
son, who was now the owner of the Helpholme pastures.  But though owner in fee of all those
wild acres, and of the cattle which they supported, he was not much above the farmers around
him, either in manners or education.  He had his merits, however; for he was honest, well-to-do
in the world, and modest withal.  How strong love had grown up, springing from neighbourly
kindness, between our Patience and his mother, it needs not here to tell; but rising from it
had come another love--or an ambition which might have grown to love. The young man, after
much thought, had not dared to speak to Miss Woolsworthy, but he had sent a message by Miss
Le Smyrger.  If there could be any hope for him, he would present himself as a suitor--on trial.
He did not owe a shilling in the world, and had money by him-- saved.  He wouldn't ask the
parson for a shilling of fortune.  Such had been the tenor of his message, and Miss Le Smyrger
had delivered it faithfully.  "He does not mean it," Patience had said with her stern voice.
"Indeed he does, my dear.  You may be sure he is in earnest," Miss Le Smyrger had replied;
"and there is not an honester man in these parts."

"Tell him," said Patience, not attending to the latter portion of her friend's last speech,
"that it cannot be--make him understand, you know--and tell him also that the matter shall
be thought of no more." The matter had, at any rate, been spoken of no more, but the young
farmer still remained a bachelor, and Helpholme still wanted a mistress.  But all this came
back upon the parson's mind when his daughter told him that she was about to leave him.

"Yes, dearest," she said; and as she spoke she now knelt at his knees. "I have been asked in
marriage, and I have given myself away."

"Well, my love, if you will be happy--"

"I hope I shall; I think I shall.  But you, papa?"

"You will not be far from us."

"Oh, yes; in London."

"In London?"

"Captain Broughton lives in London generally."

"And has Captain Broughton asked you to marry him?"

"Yes, papa--who else?  Is he not good?  Will you not love him?  Oh, papa, do not say that I
am wrong to love him?"

He never told her his mistake, or explained to her that he had not thought it possible that
the high-placed son of the London great man should have fallen in love with his undowered daughter;
but he embraced her, and told her, with all his enthusiasm, that he rejoiced in her joy, and
would be happy in her happiness.  "My own Patty," he said, "I have ever known that you were
too good for this life of ours here." And then the evening wore away into the night, with many
tears, but still with much happiness.

Captain Broughton, as he walked back to Oxney Combe, made up his mind that he would say nothing
on the matter to his aunt till the next morning.  He wanted to think over it all, and to think
it over, if possible, by himself.  He had taken a step in life, the most important that a man
is ever called on to take, and he had to reflect whether or no he had taken it with wisdom.

"Have you seen her?" said Miss Le Smyrger, very anxiously, when he came into the drawing-room.

"Miss Woolsworthy you mean," said he.  "Yes, I've seen her.  As I found her out, I took a long
walk, and happened to meet her.  Do you know, aunt, I think I'll go to bed; I was up at five
this morning, and have been on the move ever since."

Miss Le Smyrger perceived that she was to hear nothing that evening, so she handed him his
candlestick and allowed him to go to his room.

But Captain Broughton did not immediately retire to bed, nor when he did so was he able to
sleep at once.  Had this step that he had taken been a wise one?  He was not a man who, in
worldly matters, had allowed things to arrange themselves for him, as is the case with so many
men. He had formed views for himself, and had a theory of life.  Money for money's sake he
had declared to himself to be bad.  Money, as a concomitant to things which were in themselves
good, he had declared to himself to be good also.  That concomitant in this affair of his marriage,
he had now missed.  Well; he had made up his mind to that, and would put up with the loss.
He had means of living of his own, the means not so extensive as might have been desirable.
That it would be well for him to become a married man, looking merely to the state of life
as opposed to his present state, he had fully resolved.  On that point, therefore, there was
nothing to repent.  That Patty Woolsworthy was good, affectionate, clever, and beautiful, he
was sufficiently satisfied.  It would be odd indeed if he were not so satisfied now, seeing
that for the last four months he had so declared to himself daily with many inward asseverations.
And yet though he repeated, now again, that he was satisfied, I do not think that he was so
fully satisfied of it as he had been throughout the whole of those four months.  It is sad
to say so, but I fear--I fear that such was the case.  When you have your plaything, how much
of the anticipated pleasure vanishes, especially if it be won easily.

He had told none of his family what were his intentions in this second visit to Devonshire,
and now he had to bethink himself whether they would be satisfied.  What would his sister say,
she who had married the Honourable Augustus Gumbleton, gold-stick-in-waiting to Her Majesty's
Privy Council?  Would she receive Patience with open arms, and make much of her about London?
And then how far would London suit Patience, or would Patience suit London?  There would be
much for him to do in teaching her, and it would be well for him to set about the lesson without
loss of time.  So far he got that night, but when the morning came he went a step further,
and began mentally to criticise her manner to himself.  It had been very sweet, that warm,
that full, that ready declaration of love.  Yes; it had been very sweet; but--but--; when,
after her little jokes, she did confess her love, had she not been a little too free for feminine
excellence?  A man likes to be told that he is loved, but he hardly wishes that the girl he
is to marry should fling herself at his head!

Ah me! yes; it was thus he argued to himself as on that morning he went through the arrangements
of his toilet.  "Then he was a brute," you say, my pretty reader.  I have never said that he
was not a brute.  But this I remark, that many such brutes are to be met with in the beaten
paths of the world's highway.  When Patience Woolsworthy had answered him coldly, bidding him
go back to London and think over his love; while it seemed from her manner that at any rate
as yet she did not care for him; while he was absent from her, and, therefore, longing for
her, the possession of her charms, her talent and bright honesty of purpose had seemed to him
a thing most desirable.  Now they were his own.  They had, in fact, been his own from the first.
The heart of this country-bred girl had fallen at the first word from his mouth. Had she not
so confessed to him?  She was very nice--very nice indeed. He loved her dearly.  But had he
not sold himself too cheaply?

