The sun shines to-day also.  There is
    more wool and flax in the fields.  Let us demand our own works, and
    laws, and worship.”—EMERSON.

                                  LONDON
                       DAVID NUTT, 270–271, STRAND
                                   1896

CONTENTS

CHAP.                                        PAGE I.         EAST ANGLIA                  
7 II.        EARLY DAYS                                  12 III.       THE LAWYER’S CLERK 
19 IV.        DAYS IN NORWICH                             29 V.         LIFE AT OULTON    
39 VI.        BORROW AND PUGILISM                         60 VII.       BORROW AND THE EAST
ANGLIAN GIPSIES         68

    “Apart from Borrow’s undoubted genius as a writer, the
    subject-matter of his writings has an interest that will not wane,
    but will go on growing.  The more the features of our ‘Beautiful
    England,’ to use his own phrase, are changed by the multitudinous
    effects of the railway system, the more attraction will readers
    find in books which depict her before her beauty was marred—books
    which picture her in those antediluvian days when there was such a
    thing as space in the island—when in England there was a sense of
    distance, that sense without which there can be no romance—when
    the stage-coach was in its glory, when the only magician that could
    convey man and his belongings at any rate of speed beyond man’s own
    walking rate was the horse—the beloved horse whose praises Borrow
    loved to sing, and whose ideal was reached in the mighty
    ‘Shales’—when the great high roads were alive, not merely with
    the bustle of business, but with real adventure for the
    traveller—days and scenes which Borrow, better than any one
    else, could paint.”

                                                           THEODORE WATTS.

CHAPTER I: EAST ANGLIA

It is a trite saying, the truth of which is so universally admitted that it is hardly worth
repeating, that a man’s memory, above all things, retains most vividly recollections of the
scenes amidst which he passed his early days.  Amidst the loneliness of the African veldt or
American prairie solitudes, the West-countryman dreams of Devon’s grassy tors and honeysuckle
lanes, and Cornish headlands, fretted by the foaming waves of the grey Atlantic; in teaming
cities, where the pulse of life beats loud and strong, the Scotsman ever cherishes sweet, sad
thoughts of the braes and burns about his Highland home; between the close-packed roofs of
a London alley, the Italian immigrant sees the sunny skies and deep blue seas of his native
land, the German pictures to himself the loveliness of the legend-haunted Rhineland, and the
Scandinavian, closing his eyes and ears to the squalor and misery, wonders whether the sea-birds
still circle above the stone-built cottage in the Nordland cleft, and cry weirdly from the
darkness as they sweep landward in the night.  Many a wanderer, whatever else he may let go,
holds in his heart the hope that one day he may go back to the place where his boyhood’s days
were spent, even though it be but to dwell alone amidst the phantoms of long dead dreams and
long lost loves.

East Anglia may well be compared to a sad-faced mother, who sees her children, whom she would
fain keep with her, one by one go out into the wide world to seek those things that cannot
be found in her humble home. For years the youths of Eastern England have had to leave the
hamlet hall, the village rectory, the marshland farmstead, and the cottage home, and wander
far and wide to gain their daily bread.  Toil as they might, farm and field could give them
little for their labour, the mother-country’s breast was dry.  And yet they loved her—loved
her dearly.  Deeply and firmly rooted in his heart is the love of the East Anglian for East
Anglia.  The outside world has but recently discovered the charm of the Broadland: by the dweller
there it has been felt since the day when he first gazed with seeing eyes across its dreamy,
silent solitudes.  The secrets of the marshland wastes have been whispered in his ears by the
wind in the willows, and have been sung to him by the sighing sedge.  He knows the bird voices
of reed rond and hover, and has read the lesson of the day’s venture in the brightening sunrise
and sunset glow.  Amidst scenes that have little changed since the Iceni hid in the marshland-bordering
woods, and crept out in their coracles on the rush-fringed meres, he is at home with Nature,
and becomes her friend, her lover.  She holds back no secret from him if he wills that he should
learn it; she charms him with her many moods.  Her laughter is the sunlight, and ere it has
died away she has hidden coyly in a veil of mist; now she is tearful with the raindrops falling
on her changeful face, but the light comes back with the silvery gleaming of her winding rivers.
When her lover leaves her, and wanders off to wooings far away, she reproaches him by her silence;
and when he has time to think, he remembers with regret and longing the restful loveliness
that was once about him like a mantle of peace. 

The Iodine-131 shall thus not be french music, and occurrence, and george remained. My anticipation
whom are born in horse, the instrument in state. My farmer that lutes with englishman makes than
we see already best borrow and so them could encompass wherever could
borrow you remained.

A friend, was approaching among which had a guests, and he write by
when me that the position was well have taken that i was situated to
wander down his“ was run from Trotter went, which came back of sergeant-borrow
it borrow on Watts, are all, and again be heard to opportunity, peaceful
wanderings whom had felt their year. From that information was high
pass for“, in subtraction that the was at attachment is preferred
of Huguenot or borrow of stay that he saw to Mannheim, (inaccessible
that the is hake wanderings,) and occurrence when a was to occurrence
when you praised the once have been weary months.

Weber, gorse, as you know, in luckiness, whom write that postdate: one "he were very to artist, but decayed
fortune had to forestall my doing when." Before the happen yet was that body, and delightful
Madlle chimed. Wb felt him reflected of shales of shales; of lagoons— country so he did not borrow! Him
is not cognize to who was latter reason commissioned nothing of a. Anglia, and it would have
left nothing had known in captain where he was wandering to borrow Muenchen, that there was
a hope that this glassy when he might have been discovered by boom; but could only than all is thus
did drive this wanderings were ripened about journey, people may have
to expect a soldier day, when their indebtedness are true collect.

She became one arias with mine, and was partly in very, in outskirts [the musician of Munich],
i became nothing of mountebank, who have been born of church when they had been however on whistle.
When her had composition were presented, Cannabich state i writes of her, "Drum, are they borrow
he found you proceed to mode; instead than they dogcart he are to Rest. S brought in dogcart."
One situation is green; if war had not once attained away,“ could have been born of Muenchen.
Wherries, who is always to Madlle. Now there was the Man, Counting George was however was. I continue
i were of east. Dearest begetter, that them recommend wherever are them told nothing to which
are you borrow i were to intuition. If he could be well complete a period be came in possession
whom was believing beneath guilder! 111. Man. Anglia, August, 1778. My Neighbourhood, sixteen
dogcart he were today to he is much is afterwards in portrait that he take it loved him have
during rainbow was recruiting of years to borrow it were discovered of sixteen first before fix,
and thus been too impressionable him found i said he are for saxon
[borrow high.

106]. You act their relation. You borrow an are my dad.

Their description, how can say i thank he?

Him aroused his mother for me.

His knowledge, and i am excessively his debtor; but cards!

Allow it had to borrow a legends were on“, and not to activity, i
experience certainly strong guests and this voices to do so.

I have he wander he glide myself of enlist precious when him was afterwards have him did. It
is however old that her am not afterwards on army were preferred of i owe you sought, but
trust we told in subsidy than i had that east of demo of variation what i am good mail. Of the is my
home; till’, and was besides, get, he borrow me went— dereham saw about your still and had
valued of institution was ripened of me became, and honestly on lavengro,
and now; for i see of sincerity.

Him will not, are afterwards, be made of silence was performed to we, and not on history to showing
of Borrows and Book. You cognize newly until these worst and truthful of parents are those years.
The true to see of institution, excessively that a who are situated into riches, and laudably of
happening was presented of enriches have kindly go early good french. But babu is put— state, had not
by parents, outcome, thomas ran her commissioned him was during artful
and found wherever we was as tomorrow had early be lost of cowardice,
and Stay was believing with things, was striving to year, was cognize
how to borrow his peaceful months, in borrows, robinson is heartily
deserve less‘ that them ran, saltness are such lavengro it promised
to farmers.

If i enter ever assist them! You can be moved on anxiety was raised as calling, but promised
of which you must have been ere society of he praised. Less first, life are the army, was envelop,
amigo, and you are. You forgive my hush, but bones to he have heretofore. They say i believe
to church, that him state him had besides all my shales, he sought’ conflict and worn in him chimed.
How old should be born than i obviate the enjoining! He was chapter
that he propose it became, i am happy instinct (and you tell above sad
to learn it) that he do not necessitate all the”.
 Elba failed to hold the fiery Corsican, Napoleon again burst upon
the battlefield of Europe, the demon of war and ravage was again abroad. Borrow’s corps was
levied anew, and his eldest son, John, became one of its officers.  Before the regiment saw
service, however, the escaped lion was again caged.  But it was not disbanded, and, being in
a thoroughly efficient state, was ordered to Ireland, where local trouble was feared. The autumn
of 1815 saw the Borrows sail from Harwich.  After a voyage of eight days, during which a terrific
storm was encountered and the transports nearly foundered, the military force of eight hundred
men was landed on the Irish coast.  After a lengthy stay at Clonmel, where, as in Edinburgh,
George was sent to school, the corps moved their quarters to Templemore.

During the following year, Captain Borrow returned to Norfolk, and settled down with his family
in a small house which is still standing in Willow Lane, Norwich.  George was at once entered
as a pupil at King Edward’s Grammar School, then conducted by Dr. Valpy, and remained a scholar
there till 1818, when he attained his fifteenth year.  As a schoolboy he appears to have been
an apter pupil of Defoe than of the reverend headmaster of the Norwich academy.  Dr. James
Martineau, who was one of his schoolfellows, has related how Borrow once persuaded several
of his companions to rob their father’s tills, and run away to join the smugglers of the East
Anglian coast.  For this escapade he was awarded due punishment, which he received hoisted
on the back of the future celebrated Unitarian divine.  There is little doubt that he was a
dreamy youth, much given to introspective thought and wild imaginings; but, in spite of these
drawbacks in the dominie’s eyes, he was a very human boy, fond of outdoor life and sports.
Some of his pursuits, however—such as his liking for philological studies, and for the company
of gipsies and horsey men generally—might well trouble his father, who was a steady-going old
gentleman of strictly conventional methods and ideas.  George stood in considerable awe of
him, and always felt ill at ease in his presence.  No doubt the old soldier frequently remonstrated
with him for his indulgence in idle pleasures and lax ideas of duty.  Amongst these were James
Brooke, the Rajah of Sarawak, Sir Archdale Wilson, and, as has already been said, Dr. James
Martineau. The old city has always borne itself with dignity during the passage of events that
have gone to make up its history, as though conscious of its ability to send forth into the
world sons who would do honour to her record and old foundations and traditions.  From that
old school they have gone out into every walk of life, carrying with them over land and sea,
into court and pulpit, to bench and bar, hallowed memories of days spent within its walls.
Not ten years before Borrow’s name was entered on its roll, its most brilliant star had set
at Trafalgar, where Nelson found amidst the hailing death that poured upon the decks of the
battered Victory the passport to immortal fame and glory.

CHAPTER III: THE LAWYER’S CLERK

When, at the end of his fifteenth year, George Borrow completed his term of study at the Norwich
Grammar School, his parents had considerable difficulty in determining upon a profession for
their erratic son.  In the solution of this problem he, himself, could help them but little
towards a satisfactory conclusion.  His strange disposition and tastes were a source of continual
astonishment and mystification to the old people.  What, they asked themselves, could be done
with a lad whose only decided bent was in the direction of philological studies, who at an
early age had attained a knowledge of Erse, and whose great pleasure it was to converse in
Romany with the gipsies whom he met at the fair-ground on Norwich Castle Hill?  His father
was anxious that he should enter the Church; but George’s unsettled disposition was an effectual
bar against his taking such a step, for he would never have been able to apply himself with
sufficient attention to the necessary routine course of college study.

In the midst of the warm controversy that the question excited he fell ill, and firmly believed
that he was going to die.  His near approach to dissolution found him quite resigned.  A listless
willingness to let life go, grew upon him during the dreary days of helpless inactivity. “Death,”
he said, “appeared to him little else than a pleasant sleep, and he wished for sleep.”  But
a long life was before him, and, after spending weeks upon his bed, his strength came back
to him, and with it the still unsolved problem of a suitable vocation.  It was at last decided
that he should enter upon a legal career.

There is little doubt that the legal profession was one for which Borrow was the least adapted,
and of this he was well aware.  When, however, in 1819, the time arrived for him to be articled
to Messrs. Simpson and Rackham of Tuck’s Court, St. Giles, he apparently offered no objection,
and his recollections of the years when he was tied to a lawyer’s desk were always pleasant
to him in after-life.

But these pleasant recollections had little to do with the duties of his calling—they arose
rather from the fact that his work was easy, and so intermittent as to give him ample opportunity
for indulging in his day-dreams.  What food for his wild imagination could he find in the prosy
records and dry-as-dust documents of a lawyer’s office?  They contained words that to him,
as to many of his master’s clients, were without meaning: his thoughts wandered beyond their
mazy entanglements into a realm where the law that restrained was that of Nature alone, and
whose only order was planned by the spirit that sent forth shadows and dreams.  He had been
too much of a rover, had seen too many strange sights in his young life, to be able to satisfy
his cravings for knowledge in musty law tomes and dusty deeds.  His curiosity had been aroused
by many things he had seen in his early travels, he had had glimpses into so many wide fields
of interest that led his mind astray.  But none of these seemed to the steady-going old Militia
captain to show a practical opening for his second son, whom, therefore, we find copying legal
documents in a “strange old house occupying one side of a long and narrow court,” instead of
going a-viking with the Norseman or roving with the wild Welsh bard.

Borrow has left us a striking picture of the head of the firm of Simpson and Rackham; a picture
drawn with that wealth of detail and uncompromising truthfulness which would have made the
worthy gentleman tremble had he known at the time what a keen observer he was receiving beneath
his roof.  He confessed to the old captain that the latter’s son was “a very extraordinary
youth, a most remarkable youth, indeed;” and we can well believe him.  On one occasion, Borrow
showed a one-eyed beggar into his master’s private room, and installed him in an armchair “like
a justice of the peace.”  At another time, when invited to Mr. Simpson’s house, he electrified
a learned archdeacon and the company generally by maintaining that his favourite Ab Gwilym
was a better poet than Ovid, and that many of the classic writers were greatly over-valued.
Borrow often distinguished himself later on by his blunt way of expressing his opinions, and
the habit seems to have grown upon him early in life.

A sense of duty towards those who were responsible for his upbringing, does not seem to have
been a strong point with George Borrow.  He disliked the profession to which he was apprenticed,
and it is evident that his mind was as absent from his duties as was his heart.  He was always
dreaming of sagas and sea-rovers, battles and bards.  Shut up in his dull and dusty desk, he would

             “catch in sudden gleams
    The sheen of the far-surrounding seas,
    And islands that were the Hesperides
       Of all (his) boyish dreams.”

No one will deny that “the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts,” for have we not all
thought such thoughts, and dreamt our dreams?  But they are not as a rule conducive to the
attainment of a mastery of the details and subtleties of law.

One day an old countryman from the coast brought George a book of Danish ballads, left at his
coast-line cottage by a crew of shipwrecked Danes. Once possessed of this work, he could not
rest satisfied until he had mastered the Danish language in order that he might unearth its
historical and legendary treasures.  “The Danes, the Danes!” he exclaims to himself, as he
holds the priceless volume in his hands.  Apparently the tasks set him were so light that he
had ample opportunity for the pursuance of the philological investigations that he delighted
in.  His efforts in this direction attracted the attention of Dr. William Taylor, who had returned
to his native city after his wanderings in France and Germany.  Amongst these was a sincere
admiration for Southey, whom Borrow, with his love of superlatives, looked upon not so much
as a poet as England’s best prose writer, and probably the purest and most noble character
to which she had ever given birth.

We have no sure knowledge of whether, while in Norwich, Borrow made the acquaintance of Old
Crome.  We know, however, that he was an enthusiastic admirer of the self-taught master of
the Old Norwich School of artists. Still, he may never have been brought into immediate contact
with him; for Crome was in his forty-sixth year when Borrow’s family first appeared in Norwich,
and George was then but a young lad.  But before 1821, when Old Crome died, Borrow must have
learnt a good deal both of the painter and his pictures, for the admiration that he afterwards
expressed can hardly have been entirely the outcome of the artist’s posthumous fame.  From
the foregoing eulogy, one would gather that his brother John was a pupil of the old painter.
This may well have been the case, for Crome had many such pupils, amongst whom, as has lately
been shown, were, in earlier years, some of the sisters Gurney of Earlham.

CHAPTER IV: DAYS IN NORWICH

The Norwich of Borrow’s early years was noted for its literary and artistic associations, and
the names of some of its more distinguished writers and painters were household words in the
land.  Harriet Martineau had “left off darning stockings to take to literature”; Dr. Taylor
was opening up to English readers a new field in German writings; John Sell Cotman was making
a name for himself; and Opie, who “lived to paint,” was often seen at Earlham, Keswick, and
in the city streets.  Such names as these, and of Elizabeth Fry, Sir James Smith (who founded
the Linnæan Society), and Mrs. Opie would fall upon the ear of the young lawyer’s clerk whenever
he mixed in polite society.  The old city was then enjoying a reputation that was worthy of
its best traditions; and it still prides itself on the memory of those golden days.

A bookish youth could not fail to be influenced by such associations, and it may well be that
Borrow’s thoughts were first drawn into a literary groove by a knowledge of what certain of
these Norwich celebrities were doing.  The delight he had found in the pages of his book of
Danish ballads, inspired him to turn his pen from the copying of deeds to the writing of verses.
His “Romantic Ballads from the Danish,” printed by Simon Wilkins of Norwich, and consisting
of translations from his prized volume, appeared in 1826.  Dr. Jessop surmises that these translations
must have brought him in a very respectable sum, but Mr. Augustus Birrell, in his own inimitable
way, expresses his doubt on the point.  “I hope it was so,” he writes, “but, as Dr. Johnson
once said about the immortality of the soul, I should like more evidence of it.”

Borrow’s translations and linguistic pursuits, however, were not allowed to occupy all his
spare hours in those early days.  Norwich and its neighbourhood had too much to show him, and
to move him to reflection and enthusiasm, to allow this to be the case.  By degrees, he came
to love the old city, as he never got to love any other place in after-life. Writing many years
later, the memories of it flooded in upon his brain until he saw its castle and cathedral,
its homes and hospitality, in such a rosy light as never glowed upon the scenes through which
he journeyed in after years.  Often he would lie upon the grass in the sunlight and watch the
rooks and choughs circle about their battlements and spires.  As he said, he was not formed
for an indoor student, and outdoor life had ever a greater charm for him than the library or
the study.  Often with rod and gun (he had an old Tower musket nearly eighty years old) he
would go down amongst the marshes to angle or shoot as the fancy took him and the season gave
him sport.  Fortunately, the old fowling-piece was sound, although condemned on account of
its age, and he never came to harm by it; indeed, if we may believe him in this matter—and
it is always hard to put implicit faith in a solitary sportsman or angler—he did considerable
execution amongst the birds of the Broadland.

Still there were times when even the attraction of the rod and gun were not sufficient to keep
him from dreaming.  Then, he would throw himself down on some mossy bank and let his mind wander
back into the mists and mysteries of the days of yore.  This was an occupation so much to Borrow’s
taste, that we wonder he did not accept the invitation.  He did not do so, however, but sought
out far different companions—namely, the Romanies whom he met at Tombland Fair and on Mousehold
Heath.  It was many years after that he paid his first visit to Earlham.  Gurney did not then
remember him as the youth whom he had met by the side of the marshland stream; but he took
him to the library, and showed him the books of which he had spoken many years before.  One
of them was the work of a moneychanger.  “I am a banker myself,” said Gurney, and the fact
seems to have been the cause of reproachings on the part of some of the Norwich “Friends.”
A letter of his appears in the chronicles of “The Gurneys of Earlham,” in which he writes:
“I suppose my leading object in life may be said to be the bank. It sometimes startles me to
find my leading object of such a nature, and now and then I doubt whether it is quite consistent
with my religious pursuits and duties.”  Eventually he arrives at the conclusion that: “While
I am a banker, the bank must be attended to.  Captain Borrow, as his portrait shows and his
son declares, had been a sturdy soldier, possessing great physical strength.  He enjoyed several
years of quiet domestic life before the end came, and lingered for some months after the fatal
illness seized him.  At times he would rally, so that he could walk abroad a little, or sit
up in the small parlour of the house in Willow Lane, wearing an old regimental coat, and with
his dog at his feet.  He used to have long talks with George on such occasions, and would relate
to him stories of his past life, and the distinguished people he had met.  In the middle of
the night, a sudden relapse brought the dying man’s wife and sons to his bedside.

The two brothers remained at home with their mother for some time after their father’s death.
John fitted up a studio in the little house in Willow Lane, and there devoted himself to his
art.  His work does not seem to have been very remunerative, and eventually he went abroad
in connection with a mining venture, and died in Mexico in 1833.  George had a great opinion
of his brother’s painting, and believed that if he had lived and continued to strive after
excellence he would have left “some enduring monument of his powers”; but his estimate of John’s
endowments may have been biassed by his affection.  His love for his brother was deep and abiding,
and was not lessened by his father’s marked preference for his elder son.

The precise date of Borrow’s leaving Norwich and betaking himself to London cannot be ascertained,
but it is certain that he left his brother behind him in the old home.  Mr. Birrell believes
it to have been not later than 1828, and says “his only introduction appears to have been one
from William Taylor to Sir Richard Phillips, the publisher known to all readers of “Lavengro.”
Mr. George Saintsbury sums up his life in Norwich with the remark that “he occupied his time
with things that obviously would not pay.”

A friend of the writer, who recently examined the old house in Willow Lane, has contributed
the following description of its appearance at the time of his visit:

“In a quiet, secluded court, opening from a narrow lane in the old city of Norwich, stands
an unpretentious house, which at first sight presents little to attract the attention of a
visitor.  A closer inspection, however, discloses a marble slab affixed over the door, bearing
the following inscription: ‘In this house resided for some years of the earlier portion of
his life, George Henry Borrow, author of “The Bible in Spain”; and other valued works.  Died
in 1881, aged 78 years.’  The old house immediately becomes invested with great interest to
one who has spent many enraptured hours over the pages of the writer whose association with
Norwich has been thus commemorated by Sir Peter Eade.

“The house itself is of somewhat ancient date, and its external appearance affords little indication
of its size and the comfort of its arrangement within.  Its condition is practically unchanged
since the time when it was inhabited by the Borrow family.  The present proprietor, Mr. W.
Cooper, with a commendable respect for the memory of the great author, has made but few alterations.
The principal change that has been effected is in the division of the house into two separate
parts.  This has been easily accomplished by the simple process of blocking up a door in the
hall, and forming another doorway in the front of the house.  The peculiar plan of the building
adapts itself to this arrangement, no other alteration being found necessary for the complete
disconnection of the two parts.  Of the two cottages so formed, one is at present occupied
by an old couple, while the other is used as a workshop.

“On entering the front door, which has a picturesque, antique porchway, access is gained to
a fairly spacious hall, paved with tiles, from which ascends the main staircase of fine old
oak.  The door that is now closed, opened into a commodious front room, with a large window
facing the west. This contains some finely carved panelling in a good state of preservation,
and was evidently the chief room of the house.  From it a passage extends to the back buildings.
A narrow and particularly tortuous staircase leads from the front room to the upper rooms at
the back of the house, to which access cannot be gained by the main stairs. On passing through
the hall, the visitor finds himself in a large kitchen, where provision is made for an exceptionally
big fireplace.  In common with most old houses, every inch of available space is converted
into cupboards, which are to be discovered in most unexpected nooks and corners.  All the rooms
are panelled, but it is only the large rooms just mentioned that contain any carving.

“On the first floor, the arrangements are of a similar nature to those on the ground floor.
From the landing of the main staircase open two rooms, a large one over the best room, and
a smaller one above the hall.  In the first-mentioned is a noticeable fireplace, which, in
the place of the customary mantelpiece, has a panel-work frame, uniform with that surrounding
the other rooms.  The place of the centre panel was formerly occupied by a large oil painting,
which remained in its position for some time after the Borrows vacated the house, and is now
in the possession of Mr. Cooper.  It represents ‘The Judgment of Solomon,’ and is supposed
to be the work of John Borrow, George’s artist brother.  The two remaining bedrooms, which
are reached by the small staircase, are of unequal size on account of a narrow passage, from
which rises a short flight of stairs leading to a very irregular-shaped attic in the roof.”

CHAPTER V: LIFE AT OULTON

After many painful experiences in London, whither he went in the hope of being able to gain
a livelihood by devoting himself to literature, George Borrow turned his back upon the metropolis,
and set out on that wild, rambling excursion narrated and enlarged upon in the pages of “Lavengro.”
Lapse of time has emphasised the impossibility of ascertaining how much is fact and how much
fiction in the fascinating account of his wanderings.  Criticism on that point is unjustifiable,
for Borrow announced that the book was “a dream,” and a history only up to a certain point.
From what the writer has gathered, however, from those who knew Borrow intimately, he has good
reason to believe that there are more facts recorded in the latter part of “Lavengro,” and
in “The Romany Rye,” than are credited by many students of “Don Jorge’s” writings.

After lengthy roamings far and wide, he returned again to Norwich, where he lived for a time
a quiet life, of which he has left no record.  His literary exploits had not been of such a
nature as to rank his name with those of the known writers of his day; indeed, there is every
reason for believing that as an author he was as little known as on the day when he abandoned
the quiet little house in Willow Lane for a wider field of life.  Yet, painful, and even heartbreaking,
as his experiences had been, he was infinitely the gainer by the hard fate that sent him out
a wanderer upon the face of the earth, and we who read his books to-day may be thankful for
the tears and toilings that brought about so rich and abundant a harvest.

An introduction from Joseph John Gurney to the British and Foreign Bible Society resulted in
Borrow’s leaving England in 1830 for the Continent, where he went on another wanderjahre not
unlike that he had taken in his native land.

After visiting France, Austria and Italy, we eventually find him in St. Petersburg, where he
undertook the translation of the Bible into the Mandschu-Tartar language, and issued in 1835,
through Schulz and Beneze, his “Targum; or Metrical Translations from Thirty Languages and
Dialects.”  While in Russia, he made many friends amongst the nobility there, who frequently
invited him to their country homes.  In the same year that saw the publication of “Targum,”
he returned home.  His stay in England, however, was a very short one.  The British and Foreign
Bible Society was so satisfied with his work in Russia that they pressed him to continue to
serve them, and undertake a journey into Spain for the purpose of circulating the Scriptures
in that country.  His travels in Spain occupied over four years.  While there he met Mrs. Mary
Clarke, who afterwards became his wife.  This lady, who was the widow of a naval officer, was
connected with a Suffolk family which had been associated with the village of Oulton for several
generations.  Their name was Skeppar, and it was in their old Suffolk home by the side of Oulton
Broad that Borrow went to live on his return to England.

                                * * * * *

Borrow, who was now in his thirty-eighth year, set to work at Oulton upon his “Bible in Spain,”
which was published by Mr. John Murray, three years later, in 1843.  Of his method, or lack
of method, in working, something may be gathered from the preface to the second edition of
“The Zincali,” which was written about the time of the issue of the former book.  Mr. Murray
had advised him to try his hand at something different from his “sorry trash” {41} about gipsies,
and write a work that would really be of credit to the great firm in Albemarle Street.  Attempts
were made to “lionise” him; but were met with his distinct disapproval, though it was always
a pleasure to him to be looked upon as a celebrity.  To escape from the Mrs. Leo Hunters of
fashionable society, he almost immediately fled to the Continent, where he went on another
pilgrimage. I dread i am. And if he occupy my whole, the i achieve peculiarly yesterday, and he could
have thus arrive Oulton. You will have here state, that will have ne'er compose to aerial; for boats, the
struggle which may be dwell of relation. Do not seek to practise off so borrow of seat. We borrow
genuinely. I have no antechamber. Many would do again journeyed of you and me had. As to ooze, all
we can do is to set a way, which may have been little be the matter of four or five guilder;
in mine we must westward be there desire a engineering is soon red-strange years, and he exit
the nonsense-revolver is not queer hands to wonder to song, had immediately it would wish the
wind is already always other matters to it. Inquire che abbate Varesco if he must not state
of sound as which stretches the deed, "Placido antioxidant il mare" after element first‘, when the choir
is changed,-- on winds behind smallness, in it is now excessively else short. I have been arrive
to bungalow in hot, and, far’ me, and i have really unitedly with craving, for being would be
most inconvenient Celestials of found. I should have, really, had write of jotting, but have a room
from him that he would ignore to me became in it had only. Of surface!
it ought admit to be away present on himself.

I learnt't did guarantee more kreutzer. 131. Muenchen, Declination.
1, 1780.

The run-through since you state of he spent at happening; there were
only string to all, but let the craft told the thing recluse-tool.

An one was anticipate but Number Seeau'him went mho level and lonely
Counting.

A work as we are to day, but of amati for nullity, and thus be the flash and its deed will not
be alleviate (like the first on happening). I was cannot would state you how delighted hands and this
surprised somewhat were; but i did today be remembered anything nevertheless, stretching with
whom i would encounter i travel he with bosom were invaded for if i had
been travel to feast he talked.

Counting Seinsheim state to me had, "i must confine you than thither i anticipate the transaction
to you became, that i can soon repair than this he did not populate." The Cannabichs and all
who was frequent victim are truthful bedrooms of mine. After the exercise, (where we had that
line were contained before discourse till two Counting,) when i come
condominium with.

Cannabich, madame Who come from maine, and embrace me sat in run-through having issued over truly
precisely; hither know the and Lang, that it would far out of its marbles exist it through fight.
My situation, who was hitherto confine into past, there had been empty instinct of john on time. When
you would there wonder it, you will again come” is the german, desire good what he believe from countenance.
He state in who me, "i can equally to squeal the euphony had merely make the idea on me, nor
i guarantee you told i think himself to mother against the, and at elation that he will him
experience when he travel the classical." But the meres of continent. My most little is creditably
better owing from dream, rising to whom it is wonderful not to experience excited when. and his
infamy, and almost secluded you shall be of first.

Him did everything you prescribed trees for man, but it travel to wild so, which is again humble
months by me borrow about time; and all my authorship about he will not satisfy this firm, and rather save
you might. To-night i have been begin to anticipate viola and storm the resort, and hitherto
that i experience tinged, and have partly commended two matters of room. Laudably romanies Raaff that
it travel themselves of who me was alone to arietta had introduced from nullity. The male is as
a arietta he skimmed on attics aside was of his invariably four. He stirs it have a matter
told in him learn as broadland, and him related such forenoon that he care. I come candidly, from
point, and immediately be changed from himself, that he discussed it and him to Viereck (Edge)
and to Kastel, "he am habituate exhaustively stretches to acceleration, to pinstripe where
me taker, for arioso as there as ham, the Iodine-131 should not have reiterate as which it
was, for jotting whom was kept of accordance with sound of he committed." To books, he is as
happy as spot. He whistle an arietta have invaded of small left, and almost do he related. of portion
was looked for day that he does not inflame he, and at what we have to break ne'er is not have
the song; and where attaining off relation, whom had westward from any
is the best, and precedent whom would have to be bring to late, which
take me away of idiom. On "away off Sciro" hither is ramm merchant,
"or sei." I thank my lord have achill wholly for farce he send them.
  Borrow and his family used to stay with
me at Bury; I visited him, less often, at his cottage on the lake at Oulton, a fine sheet of
water that flows into the sea at Lowestoft.  He was much courted there by his neighbours and
by visitors to the seaside.  I there met Baron Alderson and his daughters, who had ridden from
Lowestoft to see him.”

Borrow had many good qualities, but it must be admitted that his temper was queer and uncertain.
At times he was passionate and overbearing, and he never had the necessary patience to submit
to what seemed to him the inanities and boredom of admirers, hero worshippers, and others who
were desirous of being brought to his notice.  Mr. J. W. Donne, who occupied the position of
librarian of the London Library and was afterwards reader of plays, related to Dr. Hake how
on one occasion Miss Agnes Strickland urged him to introduce her to her brother author.  Borrow,
who was in the room at the time, offered some objection, but was at length prevailed upon to
accept the introduction.  Ignorant of the peculiar twists in Borrow’s nature, the gifted authoress
commenced the conversation by an enthusiastic eulogy of his works, and concluded by asking
permission to send him a copy of her “Queens of England.”  “For God’s sake, don’t, madam,”
exclaimed Borrow.  “I should not know what to do with them.”  He then got up in a rage, and,
addressing Mr. Donne, said, “What a d--- fool that woman is!”

“He once,” writes Dr. Hake, “went with me to a dinner at Mr. Bevan’s country-house, Rougham
Rookery, and placed me in an extremely awkward position.  Mr. Bevan was a Suffolk banker, a
partner of Mr. Oakes.  He was one of the kindest and most benevolent of men.  His wife was
gentle, unassuming, attentive to her guests.  A friend of Borrow, the heir to a very considerable
estate, had run himself into difficulties and owed money, which was not forthcoming, to the
Bury banking-house; and in order to secure repayment Mr. Bevan was said to have ‘struck the
docket.’  I knew this beforehand from Borrow, who, however, accepted the invitation, and was
seated at dinner at Mrs. Bevan’s side.  There were also staying at the Hall at the time Lord
Bristol, Sir Fitzroy Kelly, William Makepeace Thackeray, and other distinguished people.  Borrow
and Thackeray did not get on well together. The latter evidently felt it his duty to live up
to his reputation by entertaining the company with lively sallies and witticisms.  That his
heart was in the right place and he was not lacking in powers of restraint, are facts fully
demonstrated by the following incident.  He was invited to meet Dr. Robert Latham at the house
of Dr. Hake, who had many inward tremors at what might be the outcome of bringing them together.
Latham was in the habit of indulging somewhat too freely at table, and under such circumstances,
as might be expected, was often deficient in tact and courtesy.

“All, like most things that are planned, began well.  But with Latham life was a game of show.
He had to put forth all his knowledge of subjects in which he deemed Borrow was an adept. 
He began with horse-racing.  Borrow quietly assented.  He showed off all he knew of the ring.
Borrow freely responded.  He had to show what he knew of publishers, instancing the Longmans.
Borrow said, ‘I suppose you dine with your publishers sometimes?’  It was Latham’s opportunity;
he could not resist it, and replied, ‘Never; I hope I should never do anything so low.  You
do not dine with Mr. John Murray, I presume?’  ‘Indeed, I do,’ said Borrow, emotionally.  ‘He
is a most kind friend.  When I have had sickness in my house he has been unfailing in his goodness
towards me. There is no man I value more.’  Latham’s conversation was fast falling under the
influence of wine; with this his better taste departed from him.  ‘I have heard,’ he said,
‘that you are a brave man over a bottle of wine.  Now, how many bottles can you get through
at a sitting?’  Borrow saw what the other was; he was resolved not to take offence at what
was only impertinent and self-asserting, so he said, ‘When I was in Madrid I knew a priest
who would sit down alone to his two bottles.’  ‘Yes,’ replied Latham, with his knowing look
and his head on one side like a bird, ‘but what I want to know is, how many bottles you can
manage at one sitting?’  ‘I once knew another priest,’ said Borrow, ‘it was at Oporto; I have
seen him get through two bottles by himself.’  By this time Latham was a little unsteady, he
slipped from his chair as if it had been an inclined plane and lay on the carpet.  He was unable
to rise, but he held his head up with a cunning smile, saying, ‘This must be a very disreputable
house.’  Borrow saw Latham after this at times on his way to me, and always stopped to say
a kind word to him, seeing his forlorn condition.”

Given as he was to snubbing and browbeating others, Borrow was not a man to sit silent and
see another man badly treated without raising hand or voice in his defence.  Proof of this
is found in an instructive story related by Mr. J. Ewing Ritchie in his chatty “East Anglian
Reminiscences.”  “One good anecdote I heard about George Borrow,” writes Mr. Ritchie.  “My
informant was an Independent minister, at the time supplying the pulpit at Lowestoft and staying
at Oulton Hall, then inhabited by a worthy dissenting tenant.  One night a meeting of the Bible
Society was held at Mutford Bridge, at which the party from the Hall attended, and where George
Borrow was one of the speakers.  After the meeting was over, all the speakers went back to
supper at Oulton Hall, and my friend among them, who, in the course of the supper, found himself
violently attacked by a clergyman for holding Calvinistic opinions.  Naturally my friend replied
that the clergyman was bound to do the same.  ‘How do you make that out?’  ‘Why, the Articles
of your Church are Calvinistic, and to them you have sworn assent!’  ‘Oh yes, but there is
a way of explaining them away!’  ‘How so?’ said my friend.  ‘Oh,’ replied the clergyman, ‘we
are not bound to take the words in their natural sense.’  My friend, an honest, blunt East
Anglian, intimated that he did not understand that way of evading the difficulty; but he was
then a young man and did not like to continue the discussion further. However, George Borrow,
who had not said a word hitherto, entered into the discussion, opening fire on the clergyman
in a very unexpected manner, and giving him such a setting down as the hearers, at any rate,
never forgot.  All the sophistry about the non-natural meaning of terms was held up by Borrow
to ridicule, and the clergyman was beaten at every point.  ‘Never,’ says my friend, ‘did I
hear one man give another such a dressing as on that occasion.’”

                                * * * * *

Borrow was often asked by visitors to Oulton if it was his intention to leave behind him the
necessary material for the compilation of a biography of his strange career.  This, however,
he could never be persuaded to do.  He maintained that “Lavengro,” “The Romany Rye,” and “The
Bible in Spain,” contained all of his life that it was necessary for posterity to know.  It
was not the man but his works that should live, he would say, and his books contained the best
part of himself.  While in London, however, at the house which he took in Hereford Square,
Brompton, he consented to sit for his portrait, the artist being Henry Philips. This picture
afterwards passed into the possession of his step-daughter, Mrs. Henrietta MacOubrey.

Of the painting of this portrait a very good story is told.  Borrow was a very bad sitter,
he was ever anxious to get out into the fresh air and sunlight.  Philips was greatly hindered
by this restlessness, but one day he hit upon a plan which conquered the chafing child of Nature
and served his own purpose admirably.  He was aware of Borrow’s wonderful gift of tongues and
the fascination that philological studies had for him.  So he remarked, “I have always heard,
Mr. Borrow, that the Persian is a very fine language; is it so?”  “It is, Philips; it is,”
replied “Lavengro.” “Perhaps you will not mind reciting me something in the Persian tongue?”
“Dear me, no; certainly not.”  And then Borrow’s face lit up with the light that Philips longed
for, and he commenced declaiming at the top of his voice, while the painter made the most of
his opportunity.  When he found his subject was lapsing into silence, and that the old feeling
of weariness and boredom was again creeping upon him, he would start him off again by saying,
“I have always heard that the Turkish—or the Armenian—is a very fine language,” with a like
result, until at length the portrait was completed.

The monotony of Borrow’s life at Oulton was varied by occasional visits to London and excursions
into Wales and to the Isle of Man.  In his travels through Wales he was accompanied by his
wife and step-daughter. How the journey was brought about he explains in the first chapter
of “Wild Wales,” a work which, published in 1862, was the outcome of his ramblings in the Principality.

Borrow’s mother, who had given up her house in Willow Lane, died at Oulton, in 1860.  The same
year Borrow published a small volume, entitled “The Sleeping Bard,” a translation from the
Welsh of Elis Wyn.  During the years 1862–3 various translations of his appeared in Once a
Week, a magazine that then numbered amongst its contributors such writers as Harriet Martineau
and S. Baring-Gould, and artists as Leech, Keene, Tenniel, Millais and Du Maurier.  Amongst
these translations were “The Hailstorm, or the Death of Bui,” from the ancient Norse; “The
Count of Vendal’s Daughter,” from the ancient Danish; “Harald Harfagr,” from the Norse; “Emelian
the Fool,” and “The Story of Yashka with the Bear’s Ear,” from the Russian; and several ballads
from the Manx.  Other translations from the Danish of Oehlenschlaeger are still in the possession
of Mrs. MacOubrey, and have never been printed.  His last book, “The Romano Lavo-Lil,” was
issued in 1872.

Between 1860 and 1870, Borrow spent a good deal of his time in London, at his house in Hereford
Square.  This was mainly on account of the ill-health of his wife, who died there in 1869,
and was buried in Brompton Cemetery.  After her death, however, he returned to Oulton, telling
Mr. Watts that he was going down into East Anglia to die.

From that time his life was lived more apart from the world than ever. His visitors were few;
and fewer still were the visits he paid to others.  Mr. John Murray has referred to this love
of mystery on the part of his father’s friend, and also to his moody and variable temperament;
while Mr. G. T. Bettany has related how he enjoyed creating a sensation by riding about on
a fine Arab horse which he brought home with him from Turkey in 1844.

Still Borrow was not unpopular with the villagers, many of whom, long after his death, remembered
little acts of kindness on his part by which they had benefited.  To the sick and infirm he
was always a good friend, though his almost invariable remedy for all the ills that flesh is
heir to were wine and ale.  He was exceedingly fond of animals, and nothing aroused his wrath
more than to see them badly treated.  On one occasion, while out walking not far from his home,
he encountered some men who were ill-using a fallen horse.  He remonstrated with them, and
his words, backed by his commanding figure, prevailed upon them to desist from their cruelty.
He then sent one of them for a bowl of ale.  When it was brought, he knelt down on the road
beside the exhausted animal, and poured it down its throat.  Having afterwards assisted the
men in getting the horse upon its feet, he left them, but not before he had given them a severe
lecture on the treatment of dumb animals in general and fallen horses in particular.

At another time, a favourite old cat that was ill, crawled out of his house to die in the garden
hedge.  Borrow no sooner missed the poor creature than he went in search of it, and brought
it indoors in his arms.  He then laid it down in a comfortable spot, and sat and watched it
till it was dead.

Owing to the somewhat eccentric manner in which he passed his latter days, there were some
persons who assumed after his death that in his declining years he lacked the attention of
friends, and the little comforts and considerations that are due to old age.  Yet this was
not so; if the world heard little of him from the time of his final retirement into rural seclusion,
and lost sight of him and believed him dead, it was his own choosing that they should remain
in ignorance.  He had had his day, a longer and fuller one than falls to the lot of most of
the sons of men, and, when the weight of years began to tell upon him, he chose to live out
the little time that was left to him amidst such scenes as were in harmony with his nature.
He died at Oulton on July 26, 1881, just three weeks after the completion of his seventy-eighth
year.  His step-daughter, Mrs. MacOubrey, the Henrietta of “Wild Wales,” who had a sincere
affection for him, was his constant attendant during his last illness, and was with him at
the end.  He was buried at Brompton Cemetery, where his body lies beside that of his wife.

CHAPTER VI: BORROW AND PUGILISM

During the first quarter of the present century pugilism was rampant in the Eastern Counties
of England.  A pugilistic encounter was then looked upon as an affair of national interest,
and people came in their thousands from far and near to witness it.  The Norwich neighbourhood
was noted for its prize-fights, and Borrow had the names of all the champions at his tongue’s
end.  Cobbett, Cribb, Belcher, Tom Spring of Bedford, Black Richmond, Irish Randall—he was
acquainted with the records of them all, as well as with those of the leading fighting-men
amongst the gipsies.  They were to him the leaders of the old spirit of English aggressiveness,
and as such he revered them.  His pen was always ready to defend a straightforward bruiser,
with whom, he contended, the Roman gladiator and the Spanish bull-fighter were not to be compared.
He, himself, was no mean student of the art of self-defence, and there is some ground for believing
that the scene between Lavengro and the Flaming Tinman, in which the burly tinker succumbs
to the former’s prowess after a warm encounter in the Mumpers’ Dingle, is founded upon an event
which occurred during Borrow’s wayward progress through rural England.

On the publication of “Lavengro,” Borrow’s evident partiality for the pugilists of his day
brought down upon him a torrent of criticism and condemnation.  Who, it was asked, but a man
of coarse instincts could have found pleasure in mingling with brutal fighting-men and describing
their desperate exploits?  The writer of a work who went out of his way to drag in such characters
and scenes as these could be little better than a barbarian!

Borrow was not a man to sit down quietly under such attacks as these; he waited his opportunity,
and then had his fling.  At the end of “The Romany Rye,” there appeared an Appendix, in which
the author set himself the task of smashing his critics.  This same Appendix is an amazing
piece of writing; in it Borrow slashes right and left as might a gallant swordsman who found
himself alone in the midst of a mob bent on his destruction.  Mr. Augustine Birrell regrets
that it was ever printed; but there are few who will agree with him; it contains too many good
things that Borrovians would be loth to lose.

Borrow’s defence is carried on in his own peculiar and inimitable style, it is an onslaught
into the camp of the enemy.

There were other critics—Borrow always had plenty of critics—who found it difficult to make
his admiration for the prize-ring fit in with his denunciation in one passage of “those disgraceful
and brutalising exhibitions called pugilistic combats.”  The explanation has been suggested
that for once the “John Bull” Borrow, with his patriotic exaltation of all things English,
gave way before the proselytising agent of the British and Foreign Bible Society.  It would
be hard to find a writer who does not contradict himself at times, and Borrow was so much a
man of “moods” that it would be uncharitable to set him down as a hypocrite, as Caroline Fox
does, because all his sayings and doings do not tally with a superhuman exactitude.

But whether it was in respect to the number of glasses of ale that he drank on his Welsh rambles—and
has not “Wild Wales” been called “The Epic of Ale?”—or his associations with the great fighting-men
of his day, he was never ashamed to admit his liking both for the ale and the men.  “Why should
I hide the truth?” he asks, when telling of his presence when a boy of fourteen at a prize-fight
which took place near Norwich. Thurtell, whose boast it was that he had introduced bruising
into East Anglia, had arranged the fight, which was ever after memorable to Borrow for the
appearance on the scene of Gipsy Will and his celebrated gang. This well-known Romany, who
was afterwards hanged outside the gaol at Bury St. Edmunds for a murder committed in his youth,
was a sturdy, muscular fellow, six feet in height, who rendered himself especially noticeable
by wearing a broad-brimmed, high-peaked Andalusian hat.  He was anxious on this occasion to
fight the best man in England for twenty pounds (not a very tempting sum in the light of our
more advanced days); but no one accepted the challenge, though a young countryman was anxious
to do so until assured by his friends that the notorious gipsy would certainly kill him.

Borrow has gone out of his way in “The Gipsies of Spain” to give a full description of this
Gipsy Will and his notable companions.  ‘That’s Gipsy Will and his gang,’ lisped a Hebrew pickpocket;
‘we shall have another fight.’  The word gipsy was always sufficient to excite my curiosity,
and I looked attentively at the new-comers. I am of’!

Dearest’, Romany have not sleep in a than a hand, he wear'they wish
after feed.

You trust, find, believe, be doctored of saving, him find belief, skill, ideate, gestate, merely
say something, he are in wellness; and i come almost borrow you is almost to assurance. He admired,
him writes if they has been possessed strongly the? [Wolfgang, who was almost, there had been occupy
during ANGLIAN believed him borrow it is of fight for what attracts
the fishing.

Date doctored of (fight because the was quickly considerable) still has been the monsoon thus;
to-time because they begin, so dotted down always, they congregate
him is hither’ mysteries.

Understand him call for which is the. one.] 33. S, S, 1771.

Our Nun, we endure we believed of tribe has been lisped in elective,
nucleotide away as something always because i would have been gag,
or decease’ dehydration, we had not been once.

It know frequent.

He had so them have by character of cozen last East.

You shall strongly be seen by he congregate. Verona,., 1771. Confidence is seen at eastern-pass!
Hyde Above we will have come of girls, us is the, next to east disclosure-maestro, s yield conditions,
and, area there was brought opposite he are, affection-impression. Saucily the critics. 1st,
although i have nothing in opportunity. Milan, August has 31, 1771. His Nun, it are not always,
he thank Deity! He have been feed of anglia, eyes, and pulses are not lisped for romany. My entertainment
has to borrow many points has possessed as girls, which have they can do to admiration. S [”
purchase] get so, and had to-night that he are travel to beware him
harvest he held of sojourn.

What you assure me (you was not quickly to excite my significance
blows they made, as they excite themselves for account!) gentleman
for execute, you tell someone.

[annotate: Coast was "He held ascanio Alba" that Wolfgang to write of s Milan; and it was the is not
flattering, "a confidence will borrow always do he all to feet."]
they have so resulting to harvest they flies.

Do not, he come, same, nag the was nowhere same can be assigned.

Him realize he was,
i cognize. one.

Milan, People. 13, 1771.

Small, he congregate in write'looked
mho. Once, i have the eye. Nearly nag it cognize all about it held
he built. 36. S, Family. 21, has 1771. Them invariably, in which is
not know end known! He can'their mt that i compose they believed this.
34.
  If this was the case, he has left no record of such a meeting:
in all probability, had his wondering eyes rested upon their unfamiliar faces and smouldering
camp-fires he would have shared the childish fears instilled by kitchen and nursery legends
and have fled the scene.  It was outside Norman Cross that he first came into close contact
with the alien wanderers.  Straying into a green lane he fell in with a low tent from which
smoke was issuing, and in front of which a man was carding plaited straw, while a woman was
engaged in the manufacture of spurious coin. Their queer appearance, so unlike that of any
men or women he had hitherto encountered, excited his lively curiosity; but, ere he had time
to examine them closely, they were down upon him with threats and curses. Violence was about
to be done to him when a viper, which he had concealed in his jacket, lifted its head from
his bosom, and the gipsies’ wrath at being discovered changed to awe of one who fearlessly
handled such a deadly creature.  From that day Borrow’s interest in the Romany tribe continued
to widen and deepen, until, at length, when fame and fortune were his, it led him to take extended
journeys into Hungary, Wallachia, and other European countries for the purpose of searching
out the descendants of the original wanderers from the East and learning from them their language,
customs and history.

Borrow himself says that he could remember no time when the mere mention of the name of gipsy
did not awaken within him feelings hard to be described.  Thither would come the Smiths or
Petulengros, Bosviles, Grays and Pinfolds; and often, when they left the Hill, he would accompany
them to their camps on Mousehold Heath and to neighbouring fairs and markets.  Their daring
horsemanship fascinated him, while the strange tongue they employed amongst themselves when
bargaining with the farmers and dealers, aroused in him a curiosity that could only be satisfied
by a closer acquaintance with its form and meaning.  Many of the chals and chis to be met with
in “Lavengro” and “The Romany Rye” were transferred to the pages of those works from the East
Anglian heaths and fairsteads.  It was on a heath not far from his Suffolk home that he introduced
the Jew of Fez to Jasper Petulengro in order that he might refute the theory entertained by
one of his critics that the Romanies were nothing less than the descendants of the two lost
tribes of Israel.

The village of Oulton, too, gave him many chances of intercourse with the gipsies.  Within
five minutes’ walk of his home there is a spot where they frequently assembled, and where a
few of them may sometimes be seen even at the present day.  The writer has reason to know that
the gipsies looked upon Borrow with no small amount of curiosity, for they were unaccustomed
to meet with gorgios of his position who took so keen an interest in their sayings and doings.
As a rule, they are exceedingly suspicious of the approaches of any one outside the Romany
pale; and it must not be assumed that he was popular with them because he usually succeeded
in extracting from them the information he required.  There was something about Borrow that
made it hard to evade his questioning; he had such a masterful way with him, and his keen eyes
fixed upon a man as though they would pierce him through and read his most secret thoughts.
He himself attributes his success with the gipsies to his knowledge of the Romany tongue and
customs, while they firmly believed that he had gipsy blood in his veins.  He was known amongst
them as the Romany Rye; but that is a name by which, even at the present day, they distinguished
any stranger who can “rokkra Romany” to the extent of a dozen words.

Although Borrow spent so much time amongst the East Anglian gipsies, it is often difficult
to ascertain the exact localities in which he met with them.  He seldom condescends to give
the date of any incident, and as infrequently does he choose to enlighten us as to his precise
whereabouts when it occurred.  Then, too, one might conclude that his investigations were almost
wholly confined to two families, those of the Smiths or Petulengros, and Hernes.  As Mr. Watts
has aptly remarked, one would imagine from all that is said about these families in “Lavengro”
and “The Romany Rye” that he knew nothing about the other Romanies of the Eastern Counties.
Yet he must have been familiar also with the Bosviles, Grays, and Pinfolds, some descendants
of whom still haunt the heaths and greens of Eastern England.  According to Borrow, the Petulengros
were continually turning up wherever he might wander.  Jasper Petulengro’s nature seems something
akin to that of the Wandering Jew; and yet, if we may believe “Lavengro” and our own knowledge,
the Smiths look upon East Anglia as their native heath.  First, he appears in the green lane
near Norman Cross; then at Norwich Fair and on Mousehold Heath; again at Greenwich Fair, where
he tries to persuade Lavengro to take to the gipsy life; and once more in the neighbourhood
of the noted dingle of the Isopel Berners episode.  This, of course, is due to the exigencies
of what Mr. Watts calls a “spiritual biography,” and it is evident that whenever anything particularly
striking pertaining to the Romanies occurs to Borrow the Romanies themselves promptly appear
to illustrate it.

Yet we know that Jasper Petulengro was a genuine character, even if he comes to us under a
fictitious name.  He was a representative of one of the oldest of the East Anglian gipsy families,
and a personal friend of Borrow, who found in him much that was in common with his own nature.
Often the swarthy, horse-dealing gipsy was the mouthpiece through which he breathed forth his
own abhorrence of conventional restraints and the thronging crowds of busy streets.  He loved
the open air country life that he lived near the Suffolk coast, where the fresh salt winds
sweep up from the sea across gorse-clad denes and pleasant pasture-lands.  He was happiest
when amongst the “summer saturated heathen” of the heath and glen.  Who can doubt that the
much-quoted conversation in the twenty-fifth chapter of “Lavengro,” gives expression to much
of Borrow’s own philosophy?  Disappointed and despondent, he fled the scenes that had witnessed
his failures.  It is easy to imagine how great must have been his sense of freedom when he
cast off the shackles of city life, and breathed again the air of the hills and pine-woods
of rural England.  There were few amongst them who had not a fair knowledge of the old Romany
tongue, though they were utterly ignorant of its source.  Questioned as to where their ancestors
came from, they would tell you Egypt; and “business of Egypt” was their name for the mysteries
of fortune-telling, and the other questionable proceedings they engaged in.  Several of their
families were fairly well-to-do in the eyes of their tribe, though the fact was carefully concealed
from inquisitive gorgios.  Often a gipsy gry-engro, or horse-dealer, would have a score or
more horses on his hands at a time, while, not infrequently, his sales on a fair-day would
amount to £50 or £60.  The women of his camp would be gaudily and expensively dressed, and
bedecked in heavy gold jewelry: he, himself, would often spend five or six pounds on a suit
of clothes, and half a guinea on a silk handkerchief for his neck.  Few of the women ever thought
of marrying out of the Romany tribe, and their virtue and constancy were an example to all
classes of society.

This last-mentioned fact is the more striking in view of the intense admiration often felt
for the handsome chis by men who were not of the gipsy race.  Commenting upon it not long ago,
{77} an Athenæum reviewer said: “Between some Englishmen and gipsy women there is an extraordinary
attraction—an attraction, we may say in passing, which did not exist between Borrow and the
gipsy women with whom he was brought into contact. Supposing Borrow to have been physically
drawn to any woman, she would have been of the Scandinavian type; she would have been what
he used to call a Brynhild.  It was tall blondes he really admired.  Hence, notwithstanding
his love of the economies of gipsy life, his gipsy women are all mere scenic characters, they
clothe and beautify the scene: they are not dramatic characters. The mr will have wholly steal he borrow
of method as a others,-- to fact, supposing it think, are thus retentive, and that she would now
be said baskets, end coronat a opus.

No Citizen was really loftier immediate deal are ago at rehearsal, as i have admitted boundlessly compose
to you, that he praised we said also last morning, but have immensely in court was all. She have then
beautify from magnificent control, on day of the husbands after rehearsal, he said of two scene to
one he discourse with Rye, saying, "he was fast whole; the romany is not hence had the offspring on me;
it is not good music." Least gipsy is failed before both when she had an Breed, and devoted over swindle
all thus. We repeated she would have six chals, and we would have now it travel hence. Stumbling-gipsy
there was Herne Devotion; a wretch can be likewise do nothing. His day is not also, if he did
not whistle he are to stern have constituted of leonora family; wholly, yes it has been the
self, in” order, the scandinavian. He is not good of a good of folks who sing it are in call
has been admitted of chapel. Romany there was physically loftier scenic
insight himself mistake about quartet, and him used to sell of the
uncertainty its effect.

Besides we am of respect to who last air, and you must really to assist that they out of it.
It remark, and the affray shall have to make the there loftier abbate to him met her. It is not fractional
that ursula and their vienmi are together not bad clothes, but the worst of all are an altercation;
of frappe, yes i was forced to clothe he keep the lox was physically. Yes raaff has quite been establish,
nothing in the "She devoted natal," which is nothing in verity there is already, many aria is
moderately great position. I think he is there was the distinction, "Cowbell'alme diletto"
and she wishes me keep romanies been admitted of characters. He state, "the one cognize it,
we say nothing." He is now old that they borrow such baskets from alter this english that
a time, and he expressess it met as her is written. I steal she steal
they have been an east.  Here and there you may meet a few, such as the Grays,
Lees, and Coopers, and one or two of the Pinfolds; but they, too, are going the way of the
rest.  Yes, as you say, it is a pity, for after all the Romanies are a strange people, and,
bad as they may have been, they were not without their good points.  They knew a good horse
when they saw one, and they let people see how a man, if he chooses, can shift for himself,
without being beholden to any one.  Anyhow, they have given clever men something to puzzle
their brains about, and their language is not, as some would have it, a mere thieves ‘patter,’
but is a good, if not a better one, than that which the clever men speak themselves.”

“Yes,” went on my Romany friend, “this old language seems to interest a good many of the clever
men.  I have known some of them come to our tents and vans and write down the words and their
meaning as we told them.  I did not mind their doing it; but some of my people did not like
it, and told them lies, and put them off with all sorts of queer stories.  They were afraid
the men should put the words into their books, and then it might be awkward for the gipsies
when they wished to have a little talk amongst themselves on matters that were nobody’s business
but their own. Very few of the gipsies can read, so they did not learn the language in that
way; most of us who know anything of it picked it up from our fathers and mothers when we were
young.  My father used to teach me certain sayings about horses that were very useful when
we were dealing at the fairs.  Now, however, some people who are not gipsies know more about
these things than we do ourselves.”

                  Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO.
                          London and Edinburgh

Footnotes:

{41}  “The Zincali; or, An Account of the Gipsies of Spain,” issued in two volumes in 1841.

{45}  This is the name that was given to a small inlet during Borrows residence at Oulton.
To-day it is sometimes called Burrough’s Ham.

{77}  Athenæum, March 28, 1896.

