"When trade is carried on productive of much misery, and they who suffer by it are many thousand
miles off, the danger is the greater of not laying their sufferings to heart.  In procuring
slaves on the coast of Africa, many children are stolen privately; wars are encouraged among
the negroes, but all is at a great distance.  Many groans arise from dying men which we hear
not.  Many cries are uttered by widows and fatherless children which reach not our ears.  Many
cheeks are wet with tears, and faces sad with unutterable grief, which we see not.  Cruel tyranny
is encouraged.  The hands of robbers are strengthened.

"Were we, for the term of one year only, to be eye-witnesses of what passeth in getting these
slaves; were the blood that is there shed to be sprinkled on our garments; were the poor captives,
bound with thongs, and heavily laden with elephants' teeth, to pass before our eyes on their
way to the sea; were their bitter lamentations, day after day, to ring in our ears, and their
mournful cries in the night to hinder us from sleeping,-- were we to behold and hear these
things, what pious heart would not be deeply affected with sorrow!"

"It is good for those who live in fulness to cultivate tenderness of heart, and to improve
every opportunity of being acquainted with the hardships and fatigues of those who labor for
their living, and thus to think seriously with themselves: Am I influenced by true charity
in fixing all my demands?  Have I no desire to support myself in expensive customs, because
my acquaintances live in such customs?

"If a wealthy man, on serious reflection, finds a witness in his own conscience that he indulges
himself in some expensive habits, which might be omitted, consistently with the true design
of living, and which, were he to change places with those who occupy his estate, he would desire
to be discontinued by them,--whoever is thus awakened will necessarily find the injunction
binding, 'Do ye even so to them.'  Divine Love imposeth no rigorous or unreasonable commands,
but graciously points out the spirit of brotherhood and the way to happiness, in attaining
which it is necessary that we relinquish all that is selfish.

"Our gracious Creator cares and provides for all His creatures; His tender mercies are over
all His works, and so far as true love influences our minds, so far we become interested in
His workmanship, and feel a desire to make use of every opportunity to lessen the distresses
of the afflicted, and to increase the happiness of the creation.  Here we have a prospect of
one common interest from which our own is inseparable, so that to turn all we possess into
the channel of universal love becomes the business of our lives."

His liberality and freedom from "all narrowness as to sects and opinions" are manifest in the
following passages:--

"Men who sincerely apply their minds to true virtue, and find an inward support from above,
by which all vicious inclinations are made subject; who love God sincerely, and prefer the
real good of mankind universally to their own private interest,--though these, through the
strength of education and tradition, may remain under some great speculative errors, it would
be uncharitable to say that therefore God rejects them.  The knowledge and goodness of Him
who creates, supports, and gives understanding to all men are superior to the various states
and circumstances of His creatures, which to us appear the most difficult. Idolatry indeed
is wickedness; but it is the thing, not the name, which is so.  Real idolatry is to pay that
adoration to a creature which is known to be due only to the true God.

"He who professeth to believe in one Almighty Creator, and in His Son Jesus Christ, and is
yet more intent on the honors, profits, and friendships of the world than he is, in singleness
of heart, to stand faithful to the Christian religion, is in the channel of idolatry; while
the Gentile, who, notwithstanding some mistaken opinions, is established in the true principle
of virtue, and humbly adores an Almighty Power, may be of the number that fear God and work
righteousness."

Nowhere has what is called the "Labor Question," which is now agitating the world, been discussed
more wisely and with a broader humanity than in these essays.  His sympathies were with the
poor man, yet the rich too are his brethren, and he warns them in love and pity of the consequences
of luxury and oppression:--

"Every degree of luxury, every demand for money inconsistent with the Divine order, hath connection
with unnecessary labors."

"To treasure up wealth for another generation, by means of the immoderate labor of those who
in some measure depend upon us, is doing evil at present, without knowing that wealth thus
gathered may not be applied to evil purposes when we are gone.  To labor hard, or cause others
to do so, that we may live conformably to customs which our Redeemer discountenanced by His
example, and which are contrary to Divine order, is to manure a soil for propagating an evil
seed in the earth."

"When house is joined to house, and field laid to field, until there is no place, and the poor
are thereby straitened, though this is done by bargain and purchase, yet so far as it stands
distinguished from universal love, so far that woe predicted by the prophet will accompany
their proceedings.  As He who first founded the earth was then the true proprietor of it, so
He still remains, and though He hath given it to the children of men, so that multitudes of
people have had their sustenance from it while they continued here, yet He bath never alienated
it, but His right is as good as at first; nor can any apply the increase of their possessions
contrary to universal love, nor dispose of lands in a way which they know tends to exalt some
by oppressing others, without being justly chargeable with usurpation."

It will not lessen the value of the foregoing extracts in the minds of the true-disciples of
our Divine Lord, that they are manifestly not written to subserve the interests of a narrow
sectarianism.  They might have been penned by Fenelon in his time, or Robertson in ours, dealing
as they do with Christian practice,--the life of Christ manifesting itself in purity and goodness,--rather
than with the dogmas of theology.  The underlying thought of all is simple obedience to the
Divine word in the soul. In the preface to an English edition, published some years ago, it
is intimated that objections had been raised to the Journal on the ground that it had so little
to say of doctrines and so much of duties.  One may easily understand that this objection might
have been forcibly felt by the slave-holding religious professors of Woolman's day, and that
it may still be entertained by a class of persons who, like the Cabalists, attach a certain
mystical significance to words, names, and titles, and who in consequence question the piety
which hesitates to flatter the Divine ear by "vain repetitions" and formal enumeration of sacred
attributes, dignities, and offices.  Every instinct of his tenderly sensitive nature shrank
from the wordy irreverence of noisy profession. His very silence is significant: the husks
of emptiness rustle in every wind; the full corn in the ear holds up its golden fruit noiselessly
to the Lord of the harvest.  John Woolman's faith, like the Apostle's, is manifested by his
labors, standing not in words but in the demonstration of the spirit,--a faith that works by
love to the purifying of the heart. The entire outcome of this faith was love manifested in
reverent waiting upon God, and in that untiring benevolence, that quiet but deep enthusiasm
of humanity, which made his daily service to his fellow- creatures a hymn of praise to the
common Father.

However the intellect may criticise such a life, whatever defects it may present to the trained
eyes of theological adepts, the heart has no questions to ask, but at once owns and reveres
it.  Shall we regret that he who had so entered into fellowship of suffering with the Divine
One, walking with Him under the cross, and dying daily to self, gave to the faith and hope
that were in him this testimony of a life, rather than any form of words, however sound?  A
true life is at once interpreter and proof of the gospel, and does more to establish its truth
in the hearts of men than all the "Evidences" and "Bodies of Divinity" which have perplexed
the world with more doubts than they solved.  Shall we venture to account it a defect in his
Christian character, that, under an abiding sense of the goodness and long-suffering of God,
he wrought his work in gentleness and compassion, with the delicate tenderness which comes
of a deep sympathy with the trials and weaknesses of our nature, never allowing himself to
indulge in heat or violence, persuading rather than threatening?  Did he overestimate that
immeasurable Love, the manifestation of which in his own heart so reached the hearts of others,
revealing everywhere unsuspected fountains of feeling and secret longings after purity, as
the rod of the diviner detects sweet, cool water-springs under the parched surfaces of a thirsty
land?  And, looking at the purity, wisdom, and sweetness of his life, who shall say that his
faith in the teaching of the Holy Spirit--the interior guide and light--was a mistaken one?
Surely it was no illusion by which his feet were so guided that all who saw him felt that,
like Enoch, he walked with God.  "Without the actual inspiration of the Spirit of Grace, the
inward teacher and soul of our souls," says Fenelon, "we could neither do, will, nor believe
good.  We must silence every creature, we must silence ourselves also, to hear in a profound
stillness of the soul this inexpressible voice of Christ.  The outward word of the gospel itself
without this living efficacious word within would be but an empty sound."  "Thou Lord," says
Augustine in his Meditations, "communicatest thyself to all: thou teachest the heart without
words; thou speakest to it without articulate sounds."

     "However, I am sure that there is a common spirit that plays within
     us, and that is the Spirit of God.

Never was this divine principle more fully tested than by John Wool man; and the result is
seen in a life of such rare excellence that the world is still better and richer for its sake,
and the fragrance of it comes down to us through a century, still sweet and precious.

It will be noted throughout the Journal and essays that in his lifelong testimony against wrong
he never lost sight of the oneness of humanity, its common responsibility, its fellowship of
suffering and communion of sin.  Few have ever had so profound a conviction of the truth of
the Apostle's declaration that no man liveth and no man dieth to himself. Sin was not to him
an isolated fact, the responsibility of which began and ended with the individual transgressor;
he saw it as a part of a vast network and entanglement, and traced the lines of influence converging
upon it in the underworld of causation.  Hence the wrong and discord which pained him called
out pity, rather than indignation.  The first inquiry which they awakened was addressed to
his own conscience.  How far am I in thought, word, custom, responsible for this?  Have none
of my fellow-creatures an equitable right to any part which is called mine? Have the gifts
and possessions received by me from others been conveyed in a way free from all unrighteousness?
"Through abiding in the law of Christ," he says, "we feel a tenderness towards our fellow-creatures,
and a concern so to walk that our conduct may not be the means of strengthening them in error."
He constantly recurs to the importance of a right example in those who profess to be led by
the spirit of Christ, and who attempt to labor in His name for the benefit of their fellow-men.
If such neglect or refuse themselves to act rightly, they can but "entangle the minds of others
and draw a veil over the face of righteousness."  His eyes were anointed to see the common
point of departure from the Divine harmony, and that all the varied growths of evil had their
underlying root in human selfishness.  He saw that every sin of the individual was shared in
greater or less degree by all whose lives were opposed to the Divine order, and that pride,
luxury, and avarice in one class gave motive and temptation to the grosser forms of evil in
another.  How gentle, and yet how searching, are his rebukes of self-complacent respectability,
holding it responsible, in spite of all its decent seemings, for much of the depravity which
it condemned with Pharisaical harshness!  In his Considerations on the True Harmony of Mankind
be dwells with great earnestness upon the importance of possessing "the mind of Christ," which
removes from the heart the desire of superiority and worldly honors, incites attention to the
Divine Counsellor, and awakens an ardent engagement to promote the happiness of all.  "This
state," he says, "in which every motion from the selfish spirit yieldeth to pure love, I may
acknowledge with gratitude to the Father of Mercies, is often opened before me as a pearl to
seek after."

"There is balm; there is a physician! and oh what longings do I feel that we may embrace the
means appointed for our healing; may know that removed which now ministers cause for the cries
of many to ascend to Heaven against their oppressors; and that thus we may see the true harmony
restored!--a restoration of that which was lost at Babel, and which will be, as the prophet
expresses it, 'the returning of a pure language!'"

It is easy to conceive how unwelcome this clear spiritual insight must have been to the superficial
professors of his time busy in tithing mint, anise, and cummin.  There must have been something
awful in the presence of one endowed with the gift of looking through all the forms, shows,
and pretensions of society, and detecting with certainty the germs of evil hidden beneath them;
a man gentle and full of compassion, clothed in "the irresistible might of meekness," and yet
so wise in spiritual discernment,

          "Bearing a touchstone in his hand
          And testing all things in the land
          By his unerring spell.

          "Quick births of transmutation smote
          The fair to foul, the foul to fair;
          Purple nor ermine did he spare,
          Nor scorn the dusty coat."

In bringing to a close this paper, the preparation of which has been to me a labor of love,
I am not unmindful of the wide difference between the appreciation of a pure and true life
and the living of it, and am willing to own that in delineating a character of such moral and
spiritual symmetry I have felt something like rebuke from my own words.  I have been awed and
solemnized by the presence of a serene and beautiful spirit redeemed of the Lord from all selfishness,
and I have been made thankful for the ability to recognize and the disposition to love him.
I leave the book with its readers.  They may possibly make large deductions from my estimate
of the author; they may not see the importance of all his self-denying testimonies; they may
question some of his scruples, and smile over passages of childlike simplicity; but I believe
they will all agree in thanking me for introducing them to the Journal of John Woolman.

AMESBURY, 20th 1st mo.,1871.

                            HAVERFORD COLLEGE.

                 Letter to President Thomas Chase, LL. D.

                         AMESBURY, MASS., 9th mo., 1884.

THE Semi-Centennial of Haverford College is an event that no member of the Society of Friends
can regard without deep interest.  It would give me great pleasure to be with you on the 27th
inst., but the years rest heavily upon me, and I have scarcely health or strength for such
a journey.

It was my privilege to visit Haverford in 1838, in "the day of small beginnings."  The promise
of usefulness which it then gave has been more than fulfilled.  It has grown to be a great
and well-established institution, and its influence in thorough education and moral training
has been widely felt.  If the high educational standard presented in the scholastic treatise
of Barclay and the moral philosophy of Dymond has been lowered or disowned by many who, still
retaining the name of Quakerism, have lost faith in the vital principle wherein precious testimonials
of practical righteousness have their root, and have gone back to a dead literalness, and to
those materialistic ceremonials for leaving which our old confessors suffered bonds and death,
Haverford, at least, has been in a good degree faithful to the trust committed to it.

Under circumstances of more than ordinary difficulty, it has endeavored to maintain the Great
Testimony.  The spirit of its culture has not been a narrow one, nor could it be, if true to
the broad and catholic principles of the eminent worthies who founded the State of Pennsylvania,
Penn, Lloyd, Pastorius, Logan, and Story; men who were masters of the scientific knowledge
and culture of their age, hospitable to all truth, and open to all light, and who in some instances
anticipated the result of modern research and critical inquiry.

It was Thomas Story, a minister of the Society of Friends, and member of Penn's Council of
State, who, while on a religious visit to England, wrote to James Logan that he had read on
the stratified rocks of Scarborough, as from the finger of God, proofs of the immeasurable
age of our planet, and that the "days" of the letter of Scripture could only mean vast spaces
of time.

May Haverford emulate the example of these brave but reverent men, who, in investigating nature,
never lost sight of the Divine Ideal, and who, to use the words of Fenelon, "Silenced themselves
to hear in the stillness of their souls the inexpressible voice of Christ."  Holding fast the
mighty truth of the Divine Immanence, the Inward Light and Word, a Quaker college can have
no occasion to renew the disastrous quarrel of religion with science.  Against the sublime
faith which shall yet dominate the world, skepticism has no power.  No possible investigation
of natural facts; no searching criticism of letter and tradition can disturb it, for it has
its witness in all human hearts.

That Haverford may fully realize and improve its great opportunities as an approved seat of
learning and the exponent of a Christian philosophy which can never be superseded, which needs
no change to fit it for universal acceptance, and which, overpassing the narrow limits of sect,
is giving new life and hope to Christendom, and finding its witnesses in the Hindu revivals
of the Brahmo Somaj and the fervent utterances of Chunda Sen and Mozoomdar, is the earnest
desire of thy friend.