There was no one to see us off but the early washerwomen--early and late--who were already
beating the linen in their floating lavatory on the river.  They were very merry and matutinal
in their ways; plunged their arms boldly in, and seemed not to feel the shock.  It would be
dispiriting to me, this early beginning and first cold dabble of a most dispiriting day's work.
But I believe they would have been as unwilling to change days with us as we could be to change
with them.  They crowded to the door to watch us paddle away into the thin sunny mists upon
the river; and shouted heartily after us till we were through the bridge.

CHANGED TIMES

There is a sense in which those mists never rose from off our journey; and from that time forth
they lie very densely in my note- book.  As long as the Oise was a small rural river, it took
us near by people's doors, and we could hold a conversation with natives in the riparian fields.
But now that it had grown so wide, the life along shore passed us by at a distance.  It was
the same difference as between a great public highway and a country by-path that wanders in
and out of cottage gardens.  We now lay in towns, where nobody troubled us with questions;
we had floated into civilised life, where people pass without salutation.  In sparsely inhabited
places, we make all we can of each encounter; but when it comes to a city, we keep to ourselves,
and never speak unless we have trodden on a man's toes.  In these waters we were no longer
strange birds, and nobody supposed we had travelled farther than from the last town.  I remember,
when we came into L'Isle Adam, for instance, how we met dozens of pleasure-boats outing it
for the afternoon, and there was nothing to distinguish the true voyager from the amateur,
except, perhaps, the filthy condition of my sail. The company in one boat actually thought
they recognised me for a neighbour.  Was there ever anything more wounding?  All the romance
had come down to that.  Now, on the upper Oise, where nothing sailed as a general thing but
fish, a pair of canoeists could not be thus vulgarly explained away; we were strange and picturesque
intruders; and out of people's wonder sprang a sort of light and passing intimacy all along
our route.

In our earlier adventures there was generally something to do, and that quickened us.  Even
the showers of rain had a revivifying effect, and shook up the brain from torpor.  But now,
when the river no longer ran in a proper sense, only glided seaward with an even, outright,
but imperceptible speed, and when the sky smiled upon us day after day without variety, we
began to slip into that golden doze of the mind which follows upon much exercise in the open
air.  I have stupefied myself in this way more than once; indeed, I dearly love the feeling;
but I never had it to the same degree as when paddling down the Oise.  It was the apotheosis
of stupidity.

We ceased reading entirely.  Sometimes when I found a new paper, I took a particular pleasure
in reading a single number of the current novel; but I never could bear more than three instalments;
and even the second was a disappointment.  As soon as the tale became in any way perspicuous,
it lost all merit in my eyes; only a single scene, or, as is the way with these feuilletons,
half a scene, without antecedent or consequence, like a piece of a dream, had the knack of
fixing my interest.  The less I saw of the novel, the better I liked it:  a pregnant reflection.
But for the most part, as I said, we neither of us read anything in the world, and employed
the very little while we were awake between bed and dinner in poring upon maps.  I have always
been fond of maps, and can voyage in an atlas with the greatest enjoyment.  The names of places
are singularly inviting; the contour of coasts and rivers is enthralling to the eye; and to
hit, in a map, upon some place you have heard of before, makes history a new possession.  But
we thumbed our charts, on these evenings, with the blankest unconcern. We cared not a fraction
for this place or that.  We stared at the sheet as children listen to their rattle; and read
the names of towns or villages to forget them again at once.  We had no romance in the matter;
there was nobody so fancy-free.  If you had taken the maps away while we were studying them
most intently, it is a fair bet whether we might not have continued to study the table with
the same delight.

About one thing we were mightily taken up, and that was eating.  I think I made a god of my
belly.  I remember dwelling in imagination upon this or that dish till my mouth watered; and
long before we got in for the night my appetite was a clamant, instant annoyance. Sometimes
we paddled alongside for a while and whetted each other with gastronomical fancies as we went.
Cake and sherry, a homely rejection, but not within reach upon the Oise, trotted through my
head for many a mile; and once, as we were approaching Verberie, the Cigarette brought my heart
into my mouth by the suggestion of oyster-patties and Sauterne.

Canoeing was easy work.  To dip the paddle at the proper inclination, now right, now left;
to keep the head down stream; to empty the little pool that gathered in the lap of the apron;
to screw up the eyes against the glittering sparkles of sun upon the water; or now and again
to pass below the whistling tow-rope of the Deo Gratias of Conde, or the Four Sons of Aymon--there
was not much art in that; certain silly muscles managed it between sleep and waking; and meanwhile
the brain had a whole holiday, and went to sleep.  We took in, at a glance, the larger features
of the scene; and beheld, with half an eye, bloused fishers and dabbling washerwomen on the
bank.  Now and again we might be half-wakened by some church spire, by a leaping fish, or by
a trail of river grass that clung about the paddle and had to be plucked off and thrown away.
But these luminous intervals were only partially luminous. A little more of us was called into
action, but never the whole. The central bureau of nerves, what in some moods we call Ourselves,
enjoyed its holiday without disturbance, like a Government Office. The great wheels of intelligence
turned idly in the head, like fly- wheels, grinding no grist.  I have gone on for half an hour
at a time, counting my strokes and forgetting the hundreds.  I flatter myself the beasts that
perish could not underbid that, as a low form of consciousness.  And what a pleasure it was!
What a hearty, tolerant temper did it bring about!  There is nothing captious about a man who
has attained to this, the one possible apotheosis in life, the Apotheosis of Stupidity; and
he begins to feel dignified and longaevous like a tree.

