If Jonathan Edwards did not leave a large financial legacy, he did impart to his children an
intellectual capacity and vigor, moral character, and devotion to training which have projected
themselves through eight generations without losing the strength and force of their great ancestor.
Of the three sons and eight daughters of Jonathan Edwards there was not one, nor a husband
or wife of one, whose character and ability, whose purpose and achievement were not a credit
to this godly man. Of the seventy-five grandchildren, with their husbands and wives, there
was but one for whom an apology may be offered, and nearly every one was exceptionally strong
in scholarship and moral force.

We have paused long enough on the threshold of the descendants of Jonathan Edwards. We have
seen the estimate in which he was held by his contemporaries at home and abroad, and by close
students of the history of his times. We have seen what he inherited and by what training and
in what environment he was developed. We have also seen the terrible strain to which his children
were subjected in childhood from lack of school privileges and pleasing social conditions.
It remains to be seen what kind of men and women these children became with childhood disadvantages,
but with a grand inheritance and the best of home training.

Remember the size, ages, and financial condition of the family when the father died--the sons
being aged eight, thirteen and twenty--and then consider the fact that the three sons graduated
from Princeton, and five of the daughters married college graduates, three of them of Yale
and one each of Harvard and Princeton. A man might well be content to die without lands or
gold when eight sons and sons-in-laws were to be men of such capacity, character, and training
as are found in this family.

They were not merely college graduates, but they were eminent men. One held the position of
president of Princeton and one of Union College, four were judges, two were members of the
Continental Congress, one was a member of the governor's council in Massachusetts, one was
a member of the Massachusetts war commission in the Revolutionary war, one was a state senator,
one was president of the Connecticut house of representatives, three were officers in the Revolutionary
war, one was a member of the famous constitutional convention out of which the United States
was born, one was an eminent divine and pastor of the historic North church of New Haven, and
one was the first grand master of the Grand Lodge of Masons in Connecticut. This by no means
exhausts the useful and honorable official positions occupied by the eight sons and sons-in-law
of Jonathan Edwards, and it makes no account of their writings, of noted trials that they conducted,
but it gives some hint of the pace which Mr. Edwards' children set for the succeeding generations.
It should be said that the daughters were every way worthy of distinguished husbands, and it
ought also to be said that the wives of the sons were worthy of these men in intellectual force
and moral qualities.

Contrast this group of sixteen men and women with the five sons of Max and the women with whom
they lived. In this group there was not a strain of industry, virtue, or scholarship. They
were licentious, ignorant, profane, lacking ambition to keep them out of poverty and crime.
They drifted into whatever it was easiest to do or to be. Midday and midnight, heaven and its
opposite, present no sharper contrasts than the children and the children-in-law of Jonathan
Edwards and of Max.

The two men were born in rural communities, they both lived on the frontier; but the one was
born in a Christian home, was the son of a clergyman, of a highly educated man who took the
highest honors Harvard could give, was himself highly educated in home, school, and at Yale
College, always associated with pure-minded, earnest persons, and devoted his thought and activity
to benefiting mankind.

Max was the opposite of all this. There is no knowledge of his childhood or of his parentage.
He was not bad, as bad men go; he was jolly, could tell a good story, though they were always
off color, could trap unwary animals skillfully, was a fairly good shot; but no one was the
better for anything that he ever said, thought, or did.

CHAPTER V

MRS. EDWARDS AND HOME TRAINING

Much of the capacity and talent, intensity and character of the more than 1,400 of the Edwards
family is due to Mrs. Edwards. None of the brothers or sisters of Jonathan Edwards had families
with any such marvelous record as his, and to his wife belongs not a little of the credit.

At the age of twenty-four Mr. Edwards was married to Sarah Pierrpont, aged seventeen. She had
an inheritance even more refined and vigorous than that of Mr. Edwards. She was descended on
her father's side from the choicest of the Pierrpont family of England and New England. Her
father was one of the most famous of New Haven clergymen, one of the principal founders, and
a trustee and lecturer of Yale College. On her mother's side she was a granddaughter of Rev.
Thomas Hooker, of Hartford, "the father of the Connecticut churches," and one of the grand
men in early American history.

Personally, she was so beautiful and so noble-minded that at the age of thirteen she was known
far and near for her Christian character and exceptional ability.

Mr. Edwards was desirious of being married when he went to Northampton as associate pastor
with his grandfather, Dr. Stoddard. Miss Pierrpont was only sixteen years of age, and she declined
to be married until she was seventeen. He insisted, but she persisted in her refusal.

Mrs. Edwards lived in her children. To her husband came honor and glory in his lifetime, but
to her came denial, toil and care. At eighteen, this young, beautiful, brilliant wife became
a mother, and until she was forty, there was never a period of two years in which a child was
not born to them, and no one of the eleven children died until after the last child was born.
It was a home of little children. Her husband had no care for the household and she wished
him to have none. It was her insistence that he should have thirteen hours of every twenty-four
for his study. Whatever may have been the contribution of Mr. Edwards to the inheritance of
the family, they owed the charming environment of the home to their mother.

This was a delightful home, as many persons have testified who knew it. I saw recently the
diary of the famous George Whitefield, where he wrote that he sometimes wondered if it was
not the Lord's will that he should marry, that he might thereby be more useful, and that if
it was the Lord's will that he should marry, he wished to be reconciled thereto, but he did
hope that the Lord would send him as a wife such a woman as Mrs. Edwards, whom he considered
the most beautiful and noble wife for a Christian minister that he had ever known. If there
be a more charming tribute to woman than this, I have not seen it.

In view of the character of her children and their great success in life, it may be interesting
to know how she brought up the children, of whom there were so many, and for which the schools
did so little. This is the testimony of one who knew of her home life well: "She had an excellent
way of governing her children; she knew how to make them regard and obey her cheerfully. She
seldom punished them, and in speaking to them used gentle and pleasant words. When she had
occasion to reprove or rebuke, she would do it in a few words, without warmth and noise, and
with all calmness and gentleness of mind. In her directions and reproofs of matters of importance,
she would address herself to the reason of her children, that they might not only know her
inclination and will, but at the same time be convinced of the reasonableness of it. She had
need to speak but once and she was obeyed; murmuring and answering again were not known among
them. In their manners they were uncommonly respectful to their parents. When their parents
came into the room, they all rose instinctively from their seats and never resumed them until
their parents were seated; and when either parent was speaking, no matter with whom they had
been conversing, they were all immediately silent.

"Quarreling and contention were in her family wholly unknown. She carefully observed the first
appearance of resentment and ill-will in her young children towards any person whatever, and
did not connive at it, but was careful to show her displeasure, and suppress it to the utmost;
yet not by angry, wrathful words.

"Her system of discipline began at a very early age, and it was her rule to resist the first,
as well as every subsequent exhibition of temper or disobedience in the child, however young,
until its will was brought into submission to the will of the parents."

It is needless to say that all this added materially to the good inheritance of the children.

CHAPTER VI

CAPACITY, CHARACTER AND TRAINING

In view of what has been learned regarding Jonathan Edwards, his ancestors and his children,
his grandchildren might have found some excuse for presuming upon the capacity and character
which they inherited. In their veins was the blood of famous lines of noble men and women;
the blood of Edwards, Stoddard, Pierrpont, and Hooker was thrilling in their thought and intensifying
their character. They had inherited capacity and character at their best, but they did not
presume upon it. If ever inheritance would justify indifference to training, it was in the
case of the grandchildren of Jonathan Edwards, but they were far from indifferent to their
responsibility.

It must be understood that the "family of Jonathan Edwards" includes not only his descendants,
but the men who married into the family and whose children became descendants of Mr. Edwards.
At first this may not seem the proper interpretation, but there is no other that is legitimate.
In the case of the "Jukes" Mr. Dugdale includes in the family both the men and the women who
married into the family, but in the case of Mr. Edwards there is no call to include the women
who thus came into the family, and it would have magnified the study needlessly.

Until quite recently there has been no way to discover the standing of married women in American
life except as we know the social, scholastic, and professional position of their husbands.
In most families a son-in-law becomes a representative factor of a family. Therefore, whenever
the "Edwards family" is spoken of it includes the sons-in-law, but it does not include the
daughters-in-law, nor does it go beyond Jonathan Edwards to include his brothers and sisters
or their descendants.

The "Jukes" had no inherited capacity or training upon which they could safely presume. Their
only chance lay in nursing every germ of hope by means of industry and education, through the
discipline of the shop, the training of the schools, and the inspiration of the church. Did
they appreciate this? Far from it. Instead of developing capacity by training, not one of the
1,200 secured even a moderate education, and only twenty of them ever had a trade, and ten
of these learned it in the state prison.

