This day my waiting at the Privy Seal comes in again. Up early among my workmen.  So to the
once, and went home to dinner with Sir W. Batten, and after that to the Goat tavern by Charing
Cross to meet Dr. Castle, where he and I drank a pint of wine and talked about Privy Seal business.
Then to the Privy Seal Office and there found Mr. Moore, but no business yet.  Then to Whitefryars,
and there saw part of "Rule a wife and have a wife," which I never saw before, but do not like
it.  So to my father, and there finding a discontent between my father and mother about the
maid (which my father likes and my mother dislikes), I staid till 10 at night, persuading my
mother to understand herself, and that in some high words, which I was sorry for, but she is
grown, poor woman, very froward.  So leaving them in the same discontent I went away home,
it being a brave moonshine, and to bed.

2d.  Among my workmen early and then along with my wife and Pall to my Father's by coach there
to have them lie a while till my house be done. I found my mother alone weeping upon my last
night's quarrel and so left her, and took my wife to Charing Cross and there left her to see
her mother who is not well.  So I into St. James's Park, where I saw the Duke of York playing
at Pelemele,

     [The game was originally played in the road now styled Pall Mall,
     near St. James's Square, but at the Restoration when sports came in
     fashion again the street was so much built over, that it became
     necessary to find another ground.  The Mall in St. James's Park was
     then laid out for the purpose.]

 the first time that ever I saw the sport.  Then to my Lord's, where I
dined with my Lady, and after we had dined in comes my Lord and Ned
Pickering hungry, and there was not a bit of meat left in the house, the
servants having eat up all, at which my Lord was very angry, and at last
got something dressed.  Then to the Privy Seal, and signed some things,
and so to White-fryars and saw "The Little Thiefe," which is a very merry
and pretty play, and the little boy do very well.  Then to my Father's,
where I found my mother and my wife in a very good mood, and so left them
and went home.  But parted all
friends at 12 at night after drinking a great deal of wine.  So home and
alone to bed.

3rd.  Up among my workmen, my head akeing all day from last night's debauch. To the office
all the morning, and at noon dined with Sir W. Batten and Pen, who would needs have me drink
two drafts of sack to-day to cure me of last night's disease, which I thought strange but I
think find it true.

     [The proverb, "A hair of the dog that bit you," which probably had
     originally a literal meaning, has long been used to inculcate the
     advice of the two Sir Williams.]

Then home with my workmen all the afternoon, at night into the garden to play on my flageolette,
it being moonshine, where I staid a good while, and so home and to bed.

4th.  To my workmen, then to my Lord's, and there dined with Mr. Shepley. After dinner I went
in to my Lord and there we had a great deal of musique, and then came my cozen Tom Pepys and
there did accept of the security which we gave him for his L1000 that we borrow of him, and
so the money to be paid next week. Then to the Privy Seal, and so with Mr. Moore to my father's,
where some friends did sup there and we with them and late went home, leaving my wife still
there.  So to bed.

5th: Up among my workmen and so to the office, and then to Sir W. Pen's with the other Sir
William and Sir John Lawson to dinner, and after that, with them to Mr. Lucy's, a merchant,
where much good company, and there drank a great deal of wine, and in discourse fell to talk
of the weight of people, which did occasion some wagers, and where, among others, I won half
a piece to be spent. Then home, and at night to Sir W. Batten's, and there very merry with
a good barrell of oysters, and this is the present life I lead.  Home and to bed.

6th.  Up among my workmen, then to Whitehall, and there at Privy Seal and elsewhere did business,
and among other things met with Mr. Townsend, who told of his mistake the other day, to put
both his legs through one of his knees of his breeches, and went so all day.  Then with Mr.
Creed and Moore to the Leg in the Palace to dinner which I gave them, and after dinner I saw
the girl of the house, being very pretty, go into a chamber, and I went in after her and kissed
her.  So calling at my father's, where they and my wife well, and so home and to bed.

7th (Lord's day).  All the morning at home making up my accounts (God forgive me!) to give
up to my Lord this afternoon.  Then about 11 o'clock out of doors towards Westminster and put
in at Paul's, where I saw our minister, Mr. Mills, preaching before my Lord Mayor.  After dinner,
my Lord and I and Mr. Shepley did look over our accounts and settle matters of money between
us; and my Lord did tell me much of his mind about getting money and other things of his family,
&c.  Then to my father's, where I found Mr. Hunt and his wife at supper with my father and
mother and my wife, where after supper I left them and so home, and then I went to Sir W. Batten's
and resolved of a journey tomorrow to Chatham, and so home and to bed.

8th.  Up early, my Lady Batten knocking at her door that comes into one of my chambers.  I
did give directions to my people and workmen, and so about 8 o'clock we took barge at the Tower,
Sir William Batten and his lady, Mrs. Turner, Mr. Fowler and I.  A very pleasant passage and
so to Gravesend, where we dined, and from thence a coach took them and me, and Mr. Fowler with
some others came from Rochester to meet us, on horseback. At Rochester, where alight at Mr.
Alcock's and there drank and had good sport, with his bringing out so many sorts of cheese.
Then to the Hillhouse at Chatham, where I never was before, and I found a pretty pleasant house
and am pleased with the arms that hang up there.  Here we supped very merry, and late to bed;
Sir William telling me that old Edgeborrow, his predecessor, did die and walk in my chamber,
did make me some what afeard, but not so much as for mirth's sake I did seem.  So to bed in
the treasurer's chamber.

9th.  And lay and slept well till 3 in the morning, and then waking, and by the light of the
moon I saw my pillow (which overnight I flung from me) stand upright, but not bethinking myself
what it might be, I was a little afeard, but sleep overcame all and so lay till high morning,
at which time I had a candle brought me and a good fire made, and in general it was a great
pleasure all the time I staid here to see how I am respected and honoured by all people; and
I find that I begin to know now how to receive so much reverence, which at the beginning I
could not tell how to do.  Sir William and I by coach to the dock and there viewed all the
storehouses and the old goods that are this day to be sold, which was great pleasure to me,
and so back again by coach home, where we had a good dinner, and among other strangers that
come, there was Mr. Hempson and his wife, a pretty woman, and speaks Latin; Mr. Allen and two
daughters of his, both very tall and the youngest very handsome, so much as I could not forbear
to love her exceedingly, having, among other things, the best hand that ever I saw.  After
dinner, we went to fit books and things (Tom Hater being this morning come to us) for the sale,
by an inch of candle, and very good sport we and the ladies that stood by had, to see the people
bid.  The sale being done, the ladies and I and Captain Pett and Mr. Castle took barge and
down we went to see the Sovereign, which we did, taking great pleasure therein, singing all
the way, and, among other pleasures, I put my Lady, Mrs. Turner, Mrs. Hempson, and the two
Mrs. Allens into the lanthorn and I went in and kissed them, demanding it as a fee due to a
principall officer, with all which we were exceeding merry, and drunk some bottles of wine
and neat's tongue, &c.  Then back again home and so supped, and after much mirth to bed.

10th.  In the morning to see the Dockhouses.  First, Mr. Pett's, the
builder, and there was very kindly received, and among other things he did
offer my Lady Batten a parrot, the best I ever saw, that knew Mingo so
soon as it saw him, having been bred formerly in the house with them; but
for talking and singing I never heard the like.  My Lady did accept of it:
Then to see Commissioner Pett's house, he and his family being absent, and
here I wondered how my Lady Batten walked up and down with envious looks
to see how neat and rich everything is (and indeed both the house and
garden is most handsome), saying that she would get it, for it belonged
formerly to the Surveyor of the Navy. Then on board the Prince, now in the
dock, and indeed it has one and no more rich cabins for carved work, but
no gold in her.  After that back home, and there eat a little dinner.  Sir Harry Englefield, in a
     communication made to the Society of Antiquaries, July 2nd, 1789,
     called attention to the curious popular tale preserved in the
     village of Hadstock, Essex, that the door of the church had been
     covered with the skin of a Danish pirate, who had plundered the
     church.  At Worcester, likewise, it was asserted that the north
     doors of the cathedral had been covered with the skin of a person
     who had sacrilegiously robbed the high altar.  The date of these
     doors appears to be the latter part of the fourteenth century, the
     north porch having been built about 1385.  Dart, in his "History of
     the Abbey Church of St. Peter's, Westminster," 1723 (vol. i., book
     ii., p. 64), relates a like tradition then preserved in reference to
     a door, one of three which closed off a chamber from the south
     transept--namely, a certain building once known as the Chapel of
     Henry VIII., and used as a "Revestry."  This chamber, he states, "is
     inclosed with three doors, the inner cancellated, the middle, which
     is very thick, lined with skins like parchment, and driven full of
     nails.  These skins, they by tradition tell us, were some skins of
     the Danes, tann'd and given here as a memorial of our delivery from
     them."  Portions of this supposed human skin were examined under the
     microscope by the late Mr. John Quekett of the Hunterian Museum, who
     ascertained, beyond question, that in each of the cases the skin was
     human.  From a communication by the late Mr. Albert Way, F.S.A., to
     the late Lord Braybrooke.]

and also had much mirth at a tomb, on which was "Come sweet Jesu," and I read "Come sweet Mall,"
&c., at which Captain Pett and I had good laughter.  So to the Salutacion tavern, where Mr.
Alcock and many of the town came and entertained us with wine and oysters and other things,
and hither come Sir John Minnes to us, who is come to-day to see "the Henery," in which he
intends to ride as Vice-Admiral in the narrow seas all this summer.  Here much mirth, but I
was a little troubled to stay too long, because of going to Hempson's, which afterwards we
did, and found it in all things a most pretty house, and rarely furnished, only it had a most
ill access on all sides to it, which is a greatest fault that I think can be in a house.  Here
we had, for my sake, two fiddles, the one a base viall, on which he that played, played well
some lyra lessons, but both together made the worst musique that ever I heard.  We had a fine
collacion, but I took little pleasure in that, for the illness of the musique and for the intentness
of my mind upon Mrs. Rebecca Allen. After we had done eating, the ladies went to dance, and
among the men we had, I was forced to dance too; and did make an ugly shift.  Mrs. R. Allen
danced very well, and seems the best humoured woman that ever I saw.  About 9 o'clock Sir William
and my Lady went home, and we continued dancing an hour or two, and so broke up very pleasant
and merry, and so walked home, I leading Mrs. Rebecca, who seemed, I know not why, in that
and other things, to be desirous of my favours and would in all things show me respects.  Going
home, she would needs have me sing, and I did pretty well and was highly esteemed by them.
So to Captain Allen's (where we were last night, and heard him play on the harpsicon, and I
find him to be a perfect good musician), and there, having no mind to leave Mrs. Rebecca, what
with talk and singing (her father and I), Mrs. Turner and I staid there till 2 o'clock in the
morning and was most exceeding merry, and I had the opportunity of kissing Mrs. Rebecca very
often.  Among other things Captain Pett was saying that he thought that he had got his wife
with child since I came thither.  Which I took hold of and was merrily asking him what he would
take to have it said for my honour that it was of my getting?  He merrily answered that he
would if I would promise to be godfather to it if it did come within the time just, and I said
that I would.  So that I must remember to compute it when the time comes.

11th.  At 2 o'clock, with very great mirth, we went to our lodging and to bed, and lay till
7, and then called up by Sir W. Batten, so I arose and we did some business, and then came
Captn. Allen, and he and I withdrew and sang a song or two, and among others took pleasure
in "Goe and bee hanged, that's good-bye." The young ladies come too, and so I did again please
myself with Mrs. Rebecca, and about 9 o'clock, after we had breakfasted, we sett forth for
London, and indeed I was a little troubled to part with Mrs. Rebecca, for which God forgive
me.  Thus we went away through Rochester, calling and taking leave of Mr. Alcock at the door,
Capt. Cuttance going with us.  We baited at Dartford, and thence to London, but of all the
journeys that ever I made this was the merriest, and I was in a strange mood for mirth.

Among other things, I got my Lady to let her maid, Mrs. Anne, to ride all the way on horseback,
and she rides exceeding well; and so I called her my clerk, that she went to wait upon me.
I met two little schoolboys going with pitchers of ale to their schoolmaster to break up against
Easter, and I did drink of some of one of them and give him two pence. By and by we come to
two little girls keeping cows, and I saw one of them very pretty, so I had a mind to make her
ask my blessing, and telling her that I was her godfather, she asked me innocently whether
I was not Ned Wooding, and I said that I was, so she kneeled down and very simply called, "Pray,
godfather, pray to God to bless me," which made us very merry, and I gave her twopence.  In
several places, I asked women whether they would sell me their children, but they denied me
all, but said they would give me one to keep for them, if I would.  Mrs. Anne and I rode under
the man that hangs upon Shooter's Hill,

     [Shooter's Hill, Kent, between the eighth and ninth milestones on
     the Dover road.  It was long a notorious haunt of highwaymen.  The
     custom was to leave the bodies of criminals hanging until the bones
     fell to the ground.]

and a filthy sight it was to see how his flesh is shrunk to his bones. So home and I found
all well, and a deal of work done since I went.  I sent to see how my wife do, who is well,
and my brother John come from Cambridge.  To Sir W. Batten's and there supped, and very merry
with the young ladles.  So to bed very sleepy for last night's work, concluding that it is
the pleasantest journey in all respects that ever I had in my life.

12th.  Up among my workmen, and about 7 o'clock comes my wife to see me and my brother John
with her, who I am glad to see, but I sent them away because of going to the office, and there
dined with Sir W. Batten, all fish dinner, it being Good Friday.  Then home and looking over
my workmen, and then into the City and saw in what forwardness all things are for the Coronacion,
which will be very magnificent.  Then back again home and to my chamber, to set down in my
diary all my late journey, which I do with great pleasure; and while I am now writing comes
one with a tickett to invite me to Captain Robert Blake's buriall, for whose death I am very
sorry, and do much wonder at it, he being a little while since a very likely man to live as
any I knew.  Since my going out of town, there is one Alexander Rosse taken and sent to the
Counter by Sir Thomas Allen, for counterfeiting my hand to a ticket, and we this day at the
office have given order to Mr. Smith to prosecute him.  To bed.

13th.  To Whitehall by water from Towre-wharf, where we could not pass the ordinary way, because
they were mending of the great stone steps against the Coronacion.  With Sir W. Pen, then to
my Lord's, and thence with Capt. Cuttance and Capt. Clark to drink our morning draught together,
and before we could get back again my Lord was gone out.  So to Whitehall again and, met with
my Lord above with the Duke; and after a little talk with him, I went to the Banquethouse,
and there saw the King heal, the first time that ever I saw him do it; which he did with great
gravity, and it seemed to me to be an ugly office and a simple one.  That done to my Lord's
and dined there, and so by water with parson Turner towards London, and upon my telling of
him of Mr. Moore to be a fit man to do his business with Bishop Wren, about which he was going,
he went back out of my boat into another to Whitehall, and so I forwards home and there by
and by took coach with Sir W. Pen and Captain Terne and went to the buriall of Captain Robert
Blake, at Wapping, and there had each of us a ring, but it being dirty, we would not go to
church with them, but with our coach we returned home, and there staid a little, and then he
and I alone to the Dolphin (Sir W. Batten being this day gone with his wife to Walthamstow
to keep Easter), and there had a supper by ourselves, we both being very hungry, and staying
there late drinking I became very sleepy, and so we went home and I to bed.

14th (Easter.  Lord's day).  In the morning towards my father's, and by the way heard Mr. Jacomb,
at Ludgate, upon these words, "Christ loved you and therefore let us love one another," and
made a lazy sermon, like a Presbyterian.  Then to my father's and dined there, and Dr. Fairbrother
(lately come to town) with us. After dinner I went to the Temple and there heard Dr. Griffith,
a good sermon for the day; so with Mr. Moore (whom I met there) to my Lord's, and there he
shewed me a copy of my Lord Chancellor's patent for Earl, and I read the preamble, which is
very short, modest, and good.  Here my Lord saw us and spoke to me about getting Mr. Moore
to come and govern his house while he goes to sea, which I promised him to do and did afterwards
speak to Mr. Moore, and he is willing.  Then hearing that Mr. Barnwell was come, with some
of my Lord's little children, yesterday to town, to see the Coronacion, I went and found them
at the Goat, at Charing Cross, and there I went and drank with them a good while, whom I found
in very good health and very merry Then to my father's, and after supper seemed willing to
go home, and my wife seeming to be so too I went away in a discontent, but she, poor wretch,
followed me as far in the rain and dark as Fleet Bridge to fetch me back again, and so I did,
and lay with her to-night, which I have not done these eight or ten days before.

15th.  From my father's, it being a very foul morning for the King and Lords to go to Windsor,
I went to the office and there met Mr. Coventry and Sir Robt. Slingsby, but did no business,
but only appoint to go to Deptford together tomorrow.  Mr. Coventry being gone, and I having
at home laid up L200 which I had brought this morning home from Alderman Backwell's, I went
home by coach with Sir R. Slingsby and dined with him, and had a very good dinner.  His lady'
seems a good woman and very desirous they were to hear this noon by the post how the election
has gone at Newcastle, wherein he is concerned, but the letters are not come yet. To my uncle
Wight's, and after a little stay with them he and I to Mr. Rawlinson's, and there staid all
the afternoon, it being very foul, and had a little talk with him what good I might make of
these ships that go to Portugal by venturing some money by them, and he will give me an answer
to it shortly.  So home and sent for the Barber, and after that to bed.

16th.  So soon as word was brought me that Mr. Coventry was come with the barge to the Towre,
I went to him, and found him reading of the Psalms in short hand (which he is now busy about),
and had good sport about the long marks that are made there for sentences in divinity, which
he is never like to make use of. Here he and I sat till the Comptroller came and then we put
off for Deptford, where we went on board the King's pleasure boat that Commissioner Pett is
making, and indeed it will be a most pretty thing.  From thence to Commr. Pett's lodging, and
there had a good breakfast, and in came the two Sir Wms. from Walthamstow, and so we sat down
and did a great deal of public business about the fitting of the fleet that is now going out.
That done we went to the Globe and there had a good dinner, and by and by took barge again
and so home. By the way they would have me sing, which I did to Mr. Coventry, who went up to
Sir William Batten's, and there we staid and talked a good while, and then broke up and I home,
and then to my father's and there lay with my wife.

17th.  By land and saw the arches, which are now almost done and are very fine, and I saw the
picture of the ships and other things this morning, set up before the East Indy House, which
are well done.  So to the office, and that being done I went to dinner with Sir W. Batten,
and then home to my workmen, and saw them go on with great content to me.  Then comes Mr. Allen
of Chatham, and I took him to the Mitre and there did drink with him, and did get of him the
song that pleased me so well there the other day, "Of Shitten come Shites the beginning of
love."  His daughters are to come to town to-morrow, but I know not whether I shall see them
or no. That done I went to the Dolphin by appointment and there I met Sir Wms. both and Mr.
Castle, and did eat a barrel of oysters and two lobsters, which I did give them, and were very
merry.  Here we had great talk of Mr. Warren's being knighted by the King, and Sir W. B. seemed
to be very much incensed against him.  So home.

18th.  Up with my workmen and then about 9 o'clock took horse with both the Sir Williams for
Walthamstow, and there we found my Lady and her daughters all; and a pleasant day it was, and
all things else, but that my Lady was in a bad mood, which we were troubled at, and had she
been noble she would not have been so with her servants, when we came thither, and this Sir
W. Pen took notice of, as well as I.  After dinner we all went to the Church stile, and there
eat and drank, and I was as merry as I could counterfeit myself to be.  Then, it raining hard,
we left Sir W. Batten, and we two returned and called at Mr.----and drank some brave wine there,
and then homewards again and in our way met with two country fellows upon one horse, which
I did, without much ado, give the way to, but Sir W. Pen would not, but struck them and they
him, and so passed away, but they giving him some high words, he went back again and struck
them off their horse, in a simple fury, and without much honour, in my mind, and so came away.
Home, and I sat with him a good while talking, and then home and to bed.

19th.  Among my workmen and then to the office, and after that dined with Sir W. Batten, and
then home, where Sir W. Warren came, and I took him and Mr. Shepley and Moore with me to the
Mitre, and there I cleared with Warren for the deals I bought lately for my Lord of him, and
he went away, and we staid afterwards a good while and talked, and so parted, it being so foul
that I could not go to Whitehall to see the Knights of the Bath made to-day, which do trouble
me mightily.  So home, and having staid awhile till Will came in (with whom I was vexed for
staying abroad), he comes and then I went by water to my father's, and then after supper to
bed with my wife.

20th. And from thence to the Privy Seal, where little to do, and after that took Mr. Creed
and Moore and gave them their morning draught, and after that to my Lord's, where Sir W. Pen
came to me, and dined with my Lord.  After dinner he and others that dined there went away,
and then my Lord looked upon his pages' and footmen's liverys, which are come home to-day,
and will be handsome, though not gaudy. And the same for the Barons, only he is led up but
by three of the old Barons, and are girt with swords before they go to the King.  So Mr. Creed
and I (the play being done) went to Mrs. Harper's, and there sat and drank, it being about
twelve at night. The ways being now so dirty, and stopped up with the rayles which are this
day set up in the streets, I would not go home, but went with him to his lodging at Mr. Ware's,
and there lay all night.

21st (Lord's day).  In the morning we were troubled to hear it rain as it did, because of the
great show tomorrow.  After I was ready I walked to my father's and there found the late maid
to be gone and another come by my mother's choice, which my father do not like, and so great
difference there will be between my father and mother about it.  Here dined Doctor Thos. Pepys
and Dr. Fayrebrother; and all our talk about to-morrow's show, and our trouble that it is like
to be a wet day.  After dinner comes in my coz. Snow and his wife, and I think stay there till
the show be over. Then I went home, and all the way is so thronged with people to see the triumphal
arches, that I could hardly pass for them.  So home, people being at church, and I got home
unseen, and so up to my chamber and saw done these last five or six days' diarys.  My mind
a little troubled about my workmen, which, being foreigners,--[Foreigners were workmen dwelling
outside the city.]--are like to be troubled by a couple of lazy rogues that worked with me
the other day, that are citizens, and so my work will be hindered, but I must prevent it if I can.

22d.  KING'S GOING FROM YE TOWER TO WHITE HALL.

              "Hang up all the poor hop-drinkers,
               Cries old Sim, the king of skinkers."  Sir W. Batten going home, he and I called and drunk
some mum

     [Mum.  Ale brewed with wheat at Brunswick.

              "Sedulous and stout
               With bowls of fattening mum."

     J. Phillips, Cyder, Vol. ii.  p. 231.]

and laid our wager about my Lady Faulconbridge's name,

     [Mary, third daughter of Oliver Cromwell, and second wife of Thomas
     Bellasis, second Viscount Fauconberg, created Earl of Fauconberg,
     April 9th, 1689.]

which he says not to be Mary, and so I won above 20s.  So home, where Will and the boy staid
and saw the show upon Towre Hill, and Jane at T. Pepys's, The. Turner, and my wife at Charles
Glassecocke's, in Fleet Street.  I lay with Mr. Shepley, and

                             CORONACION DAY.

23d.  About 4 I rose and got to the Abbey, where I followed Sir J. Denham,
the Surveyor, with some company that he was leading in.  A grant of that outward mark of
     dignity was made to them by Charles soon after his coronation.
     Queen Elizabeth had assigned coronets to viscounts.--B.]

and bishops come, and kneeled before him.  But so great a noise
that I could make but little of the musique; and indeed, it was lost to
every body.  But in the interim also (speedy notice
     hereof having been given the King) one of the Querries were sent
     from him, with command to imprison the footmen, and dismiss them out
     of his service, which put an end to the present disturbance.  These
     footmen were also commanded to make their submission to the Court of
     Claims, which was accordingly done by them the 30th April following,
     and the canopy then delivered back to the said Barons."  At last I went to Kingstreet, and there sent Crockford to my
father's and my house, to tell them I could not come home tonight, because
of the dirt, and a coach could not be had. But no sooner a-bed with
Mr. Shepley but my head began to hum, and I to vomit, and if ever I was
foxed it was now, which I cannot say yet, because I fell asleep and slept
till morning.  Only when I waked I found myself wet with my spewing.

24th.  Waked in the morning with my head in a sad taking through the last night's drink, which
I am very sorry for; so rose and went out with Mr. Creed to drink our morning draft, which
he did give me in chocolate

     [Chocolate was introduced into England about the year 1652.  And after that I to my wife, who lay with Mrs.
Frankelyn at the next door to Mrs. Hunt's, and they were ready, and so I
took them up in a coach, and carried the ladies to Paul's, and there set
her down, and so my wife and I home, and I to the office.  That being done
my wife and I went to dinner to Sir W. Batten, and all our talk about the
happy conclusion of these last solemnities.  After dinner home, and
advised with my wife about ordering things in my house, and then she went
away to my father's to lie, and I staid with my workmen, who do please me
very well with their work.  So to bed.

25th.  All the morning with my workmen with great pleasure to see them near coming to an end.
At noon Mr. Moore and I went to an Ordinary at the King's Head in Towre Street, and there had
a dirty dinner. Afterwards home and having done some business with him, in comes Mr. Sheply
and Pierce the surgeon, and they and I to the Mitre and there staid a while and drank, and
so home and after a little rending to bed.

26th.  At the office all the morning, and at noon dined by myself at home on a piece of meat
from the cook's, and so at home all the afternoon with my workmen, and at night to bed, having
some thoughts to order my business so as to go to Portsmouth the next week with Sir Robert
Slingsby.

27th.  In the morning to my Lord's, and there dined with my Lady, and after dinner with Mr.
Creed and Captain Ferrers to the Theatre to see "The Chances," and after that to the Cock alehouse,
where we had a harp and viallin played to us, and so home by coach to Sir W. Batten's, who
seems so inquisitive when my, house will be made an end of that I am troubled to go thither.
So home with some trouble in my mind about it.

28th (Lord's day).  In the morning to my father's, where I dined, and in the afternoon to their
church, where come Mrs. Turner and Mrs. Edward Pepys, and several other ladies, and so I went
out of the pew into another.  And after sermon home with them, and there staid a while and
talked with them and was sent for to my father's, where my cozen Angier and his wife, of Cambridge,
to whom I went, and was glad to see them, and sent for wine for them, and they supped with
my father.  After supper my father told me of an odd passage the other night in bed between
my mother and him, and she would not let him come to bed to her out of jealousy of him and
an ugly wench that lived there lately, the most ill-favoured slut that ever I saw in my life,
which I was ashamed to hear that my mother should be become such a fool, and my father bid
me to take notice of it to my mother, and to make peace between him and her.  All which do
trouble me very much.  So to bed to my wife.

29th.  Up and with my father towards my house, and by the way met with Lieut. Lambert, and
with him to the Dolphin in Tower Street and drank our morning draught, he being much troubled
about his being offered a fourth rate ship to be Lieutenant of her now he has been two years
Lieutenant in a first rate.  So to the office, where it is determined that I should go to-morrow
to Portsmouth. So I went out of the office to Whitehall presently, and there spoke with Sir
W. Pen and Sir George Carteret and had their advice as to my going, and so back again home,
where I directed Mr. Hater what to do in order to our going to-morrow, and so back again by
coach to Whitehall and there eat something in the buttery at my Lord's with John Goods and
Ned Osgood.  And so home again, and gave order to my workmen what to do in my absence.  At
night to Sir W. Batten's, and by his and Sir W. Pen's persuasion I sent for my wife from my
father's, who came to us to Mrs. Turner's, where we were all at a collacion to-night till twelve
o'clock, there being a gentlewoman there that did play well and sang well to the Harpsicon,
and very merry we were.  So home and to bed, where my wife had not lain a great while.

30th.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.

                                 MAY 1661

May 1st.  Several officers of the Yard came to see us to-night, and merry we were, but troubled
to have no better lodgings.

2nd.  Up, and Mr. Creed and I to walk round the town upon the walls. Then to our inn, and there
all the officers of the Yard to see me with great respect, and I walked with them to the Dock
and saw all the stores, and much pleased with the sight of the place.  Back and brought them
all to dinner with me, and treated them handsomely; and so after dinner by water to the Yard,
and there we made the sale of the old provisions. Then we and our wives all to see the Montagu,
which is a fine ship, and so to the town again by water, and then to see the room where the
Duke of Buckingham was killed by Felton.--1628.  So to our lodging, and to supper and to bed.
To-night came Mr. Stevens to town to help us to pay off the Fox.

3rd.  Early to walk with Mr. Creed up and down the town, and it was in his and some others'
thoughts to have got me made free of the town, but the Mayor, it seems, unwilling, and so they
could not do it.  Then to the payhouse, and there paid off the ship, and so to a short dinner,
and then took coach, leaving Mrs. Hater there to stay with her husband's friends, and we to
Petersfield, having nothing more of trouble in all my journey, but the exceeding unmannerly
and most epicure-like palate of Mr. Creed. Here my wife and I lay in the room the Queen lately
lay at her going into France.

4th.  Up in the morning and took coach, and so to Gilford, where we lay at the Red Lyon, the
best Inn, and lay in the room the King lately lay in, where we had time to see the Hospital,
built by Archbishop Abbott, and the free school, and were civilly treated by the Mayster. 
So to supper, and to bed, being very merry about our discourse with the Drawers concerning
the minister of the Town, with a red face and a girdle.  So to bed, where we lay and sleep well.

5th (Lord's day).  Mr. Creed and I went to the red-faced Parson's church, and heard a good
sermon of him, better than I looked for.  Then home, and had a good dinner, and after dinner
fell in some talk in Divinity with Mr. Stevens that kept us till it was past Church time. 
Anon we walked into the garden, and there played the fool a great while, trying who of Mr.
Creed or I could go best over the edge of an old fountain well, and I won a quart of sack of
him. Then to walk in the fields, and so to our quarters, and to bed.

6th.  Up by four o'clock and took coach.  Mr. Creed rode, and left us that we know not whither
he went.  We went on, thinking to be at home before the officers rose, but finding we could
not we staid by the way and eat some cakes, and so home, where I was much troubled to see no
more work done in my absence than there was, but it could not be helped.  I sent my wife to
my father's, and I went and sat till late with my Lady Batten, both the Sir Williams being
gone this day to pay off some ships at Deptford.  So home and to bed without seeing of them.

7th.  In the morning to Mr. Coventry, Sir G. Carteret, and my Lord's to give them an account
of my return.  My Lady, I find, is, since my going, gone to the Wardrobe.  Then with Mr. Creed
into London, to several places about his and my business, being much stopped in our way by
the City traynebands, who go in much solemnity and pomp this day to muster before the King
and the Duke, and shops in the City are shut up every where all this day.  He carried me to
an ordinary by the Old Exchange, where we come a little too late, but we had very good cheer
for our 18d. a-piece, and an excellent droll too, my host, and his wife so fine a woman; and
sung and played so well that I staid a great while and drunk a great deal of wine. Then home
and staid among my workmen all day, and took order for things for the finishing of their work,
and so at night to Sir W. Batten's, and there supped and so home and to bed, having sent my
Lord a letter to-night to excuse myself for not going with him to-morrow to the Hope, whither
he is to go to see in what condition the fleet is in.

8th.  This morning came my brother John to take his leave of me, he being to return to Cambridge
to-morrow, and after I had chid him for going with my Will the other day to Deptford with the
principal officers, I did give him some good counsell and 20s. in money, and so he went away.
All this day I staid at home with my workmen without eating anything, and took much pleasure
to see my work go forward.  At night comes my wife not well from my father's, having had a
fore-tooth drawn out to-day, which do trouble me, and the more because I am now in the greatest
of all my dirt. My Will also returned to-night pretty well, he being gone yesterday not very
well to his father's.  To-day I received a letter from my uncle, to beg an old fiddle of me
for my Cozen Perkin, the miller, whose mill the wind hath lately broke down, and now he hath
nothing to live by but fiddling, and he must needs have it against Whitsuntide to play to the
country girls; but it vexed me to see how my uncle writes to me, as if he were not able to
buy him one.  But I intend tomorrow to send him one.  At night I set down my journal of my
late journey to this time, and so to bed.  My wife not being well and I very angry with her
for her coming hither in that condition.

9th.  With my workmen all the morning, my wife being ill and in great pain with her old pain,
which troubled me much because that my house is in this condition of dirt.  In the afternoon
I went to Whitehall and there spoke with my Lord at his lodgings, and there being with him
my Lord Chamberlain, I spoke for my old waterman Payne, to get into White's place, who was
waterman to my Lord Chamberlain, and is now to go master of the barge to my Lord to sea, and
my Lord Chamberlain did promise that Payne should be entertained in White's place with him.
From thence to Sir G. Carteret, and there did get his promise for the payment of the remainder
of the bill of Mr. Creed's, wherein of late I have been so much concerned, which did so much
rejoice me that I meeting with Mr. Childe took him to the Swan Tavern in King Street, and there
did give him a tankard of white wine and sugar,--[The popular taste was formerly for sweet
wines, and sugar was frequently mixed with the wine.]--and so I went by water home and set
myself to get my Lord's accounts made up, which was till nine at night before I could finish,
and then I walked to the Wardrobe, being the first time I was there since my Lady came thither,
who I found all alone, and so she shewed me all the lodgings as they are now fitted, and they
seem pretty pleasant.  By and by comes in my Lord, and so, after looking over my accounts,
I returned home, being a dirty and dark walk.  So to bed.

10th.  At the office all the morning, and the afternoon among my workmen with great pleasure,
because being near an end of their work.  This afternoon came Mr. Blackburn and Creed to see
me, and I took them to the Dolphin, and there drank a great deal of Rhenish wine with them
and so home, having some talk with Mr. Blackburn about his kinsman my Will, and he did give
me good satisfaction in that it is his desire that his kinsman should do me all service, and
that he would give him the best counsel he could to make him good.  Which I begin of late to
fear that he will not because of the bad company that I find that he do begin to take. This
afternoon Mr. Hater received for me the L225 due upon Mr. Creed's bill in which I am concerned
so much, which do make me very glad.  At night to Sir W. Batten and sat a while.  So to bed.

11th.  This morning I went by water with Payne (Mr. Moore being with me) to my Lord Chamberlain
at Whitehall, and there spoke with my Lord, and he did accept of Payne for his waterman, as
I had lately endeavoured to get him to be.  After that Mr. Cooling did give Payne an order
to be entertained, and so I left him and Mr. Moore, and I went to Graye's Inne, and there to
a barber's, where I was trimmed, and had my haire cut, in which I am lately become a little
curious, finding that the length of it do become me very much.  So, calling at my father's,
I went home, and there staid and saw my workmen follow their work, which this night is brought
to a very good condition.  This afternoon Mr. Shepley, Moore, and Creed came to me all about
their several accounts with me, and we did something with them all, and so they went away.
This evening Mr. Hater brought my last quarter's salary, of which I was very glad, because
I have lost my first bill for it, and so this morning was forced to get another signed by three
of my fellow officers for it.  All this evening till late setting my accounts and papers in
order, and so to bed.

12th.  My wife had a very troublesome night this night and in great pain, but about the morning
her swelling broke, and she was in great ease presently as she useth to be.  So I put in a
vent (which Dr. Williams sent me yesterday) into the hole to keep it open till all the matter
be come out, and so I question not that she will soon be well again.  I staid at home all this
morning, being the Lord's day, making up my private accounts and setting papers in order. 
At noon went with my Lady Montagu at the Wardrobe, but I found it so late that I came back
again, and so dined with my wife in her chamber.  After dinner I went awhile to my chamber
to set my papers right.  And I am afeard my former high esteem of his preaching was more out
of opinion than judgment.

13th.  All the morning at home among my workmen.  At noon Mr. Creed and I went to the ordinary
behind the Exchange, where we lately were, but I do not like it so well as I did.  So home
with him and to the office, where we sat late, and he did deliver his accounts to us.  The
office being done I went home and took pleasure to see my work draw to an end.

14th.  Up early and by water to Whitehall to my Lord, and there had much talk with him about
getting some money for him.  He told me of his intention to get the Muster Master's place for
Mr. Pierce, the purser, who he has a mind to carry to sea with him, and spoke very slightingly
of Mr. Creed, as that he had no opinion at all of him, but only he was forced to make use of
him because of his present accounts.  Thence to drink with Mr. Shepley and Mr. Pinkny, and
so home and among my workmen all day.  In the evening Mr. Shepley came to me for some money,
and so he and I to the Mitre, and there we had good wine and a gammon of bacon.  My uncle Wight,
Mr. Talbot, and others were with us, and we were pretty merry.  So at night home and to bed.
Finding my head grow weak now-a-days if I come to drink wine, and therefore hope that I shall
leave it off of myself, which I pray God I could do.

15th.  With my workmen all day till the afternoon, and then to the office, where Mr. Creed's
accounts were passed.  Home and found all my joyner's work now done, but only a small job or
two, which please me very well. This afternoon there came two men with an order from a Committee
of Lords to demand some books of me out of the office, in order to the examining of Mr. Hutchinson's
accounts, but I give them a surly answer, and they went away to complain, which put me into
some trouble with myself, but I resolve to go to-morrow myself to these Lords and answer them.
To bed, being in great fear because of the shavings which lay all up and down the house and
cellar, for fear of fire.

16th.  Up early to see whether the work of my house be quite done, and I found it to my mind.
Staid at home all the morning, and about 2 o'clock went in my velvet coat by water to the Savoy,
and there, having staid a good while, I was called into the Lords, and there, quite contrary
to my expectations, they did treat me very civilly, telling me that what they had done was
out of zeal to the King's service, and that they would joyne with the governors of the chest
with all their hearts, since they knew that there was any, which they did not before.  I give
them very respectful answer and so went away to the Theatre, and there saw the latter end of
"The Mayd's Tragedy," which I never saw before, and methinks it is too sad and melancholy.
Thence homewards, and meeting Mr. Creed I took him by water to the Wardrobe with me, and there
we found my Lord newly gone away with the Duke of Ormond and some others, whom he had had to
the collation; and so we, with the rest of the servants in the hall, sat down and eat of the
best cold meats that ever I eat on in all my life. From thence I went home (Mr. Moore with
me to the waterside, telling me how kindly he is used by my Lord and my Lady since his coming
hither as a servant), and to bed.

17th.  All the morning at home.  At noon Lieutenant Lambert came to me, and he and I to the
Exchange, and thence to an ordinary over against it, where to our dinner we had a fellow play
well upon the bagpipes and whistle like a bird exceeding well, and I had a fancy to learn to
whistle as he do, and did promise to come some other day and give him an angell to teach me.
To the office, and sat there all the afternoon till 9 at night. So home to my musique, and
my wife and I sat singing in my chamber a good while together, and then to bed.

18th.  Towards Westminster, from the Towre, by water, and was fain to stand upon one of the
piers about the bridge,

     [The dangers of shooting the bridge were so great that a popular
     proverb has it--London Bridge was made for wise men to go over and
     fools to go under.]

before the men could drag their boat through the lock, and which they could not do till another
was called to help them.  Being through bridge I found the Thames full of boats and gallys,
and upon inquiry found that there was a wager to be run this morning.  So spying of Payne in
a gully, I went into him, and there staid, thinking to have gone to Chelsy with them.  But
upon, the start, the wager boats fell foul one of another, till at last one of them gives over,
pretending foul play, and so the other row away alone, and all our sport lost. So, I went ashore,
at Westminster; and to the Hall I went, where it was very pleasant to see the Hall in the condition
it is now with the judges on the benches at the further end of it, which I had not seen all
this term till now. Thence with Mr. Spicer, Creed and some others to drink.  And so away homewards
by water with Mr. Creed, whom I left in London going about business and I home, where I staid
all the afternoon in the garden reading "Faber Fortunae" with great pleasure. So home to bed.
After that into the garden, and walked a turn or two, but found it not so fine a place as I
always took it for by the outside. Thence to my Lord's and there spake with him about business,
and then he went to Whitehall to dinner, and Capt. Ferrers and Mr. Howe and myself to Mr. Wilkinson's
at the Crown, and though he had no meat of his own, yet we happened to find our cook Mr. Robinson
there, who had a dinner for himself and some friends, and so he did give us a very fine dinner.
So we sent to get a lodging for him, and I went up to my Lord, where Captain Cooke, Mr. Gibbons,
and others of the King's musicians were come to present my Lord with some songs and symphonys,
which were performed very finely. Which being done I took leave and supped at my father's,
where was my cozen Beck come lately out of the country.  I am troubled to see my father so
much decay of a suddain, as he do both in his seeing and hearing, and as much to hear of him
how my brother Tom do grow disrespectful to him and my mother. I took leave and went home,
where to prayers (which I have not had in my house a good while), and so to bed.

20th.  At home all the morning; paid L50 to one Mr. Grant for Mr. Barlow, for the last half
year, and was visited by Mr. Anderson, my former chamber fellow at Cambridge, with whom I parted
at the Hague, but I did not go forthwith him, only gave him a morning draft at home.  At noon
Mr. Creed came to me, and he and I to the Exchange, and so to an ordinary to dinner, and after
dinner to the Mitre, and there sat drinking while it rained very much.  Then to the office,
where I found Sir Williams both, choosing of masters for the new fleet of ships that is ordered
to be set forth, and Pen seeming to be in an ugly humour, not willing to gratify one that I
mentioned to be put in, did vex me.  We sat late, and so home. Mr. Moore came to me when I
was going to bed, and sat with me a good while talking about my Lord's business and our own
and so good night.

21st.

22nd.  To Westminster, and there missed of my Lord, and so about noon I and W. Howe by water
to the Wardrobe, where my Lord and all the officers of the Wardrobe dined, and several other
friends of my Lord, at a venison pasty. Before dinner, my Lady Wright and my Lady Jem. sang
songs to the harpsicon. Very pleasant and merry at dinner.  And then I went away by water to
the office, and there staid till it was late.  At night before I went to bed the barber came
to trim me and wash me, and so to bed, in order to my being clean to-morrow.

23rd.  This day I went to my Lord, and about many other things at Whitehall, and there made
even my accounts with Mr. Shepley at my Lord's, and then with him and Mr. Moore and John Bowles
to the Rhenish wine house, and there came Jonas Moore, the mathematician, to us, and there
he did by discourse make us fully believe that England and France were once the same continent,
by very good arguments, and spoke very many things, not so much to prove the Scripture false
as that the time therein is not well computed nor understood.

     [Dr. William Bates, one of the most eminent of the Puritan divines,
     and who took part in the Savoy Conference.  His collected writings
     were published in 1700, and fill a large folio volume.  The
     Dissenters called him silver-tongued Bates.  Calamy affirmed that if
     Bates would have conformed to the Established Church he might have
     been raised to any bishopric in the kingdom.

     [Pepys here refers to the perambulation of parishes on Holy
     Thursday, still observed.  This ceremony was sometimes enlivened by
     whipping the boys, for the better impressing on their minds the
     remembrance of the day, and the boundaries of the parish, instead of
     beating houses or stones. But this would not have harmonized well
     with the excellent Hooker's practice on this day, when he "always
     dropped some loving and facetious observations, to be remembered
     against the next year, especially by the boys and young people."
     Amongst Dorsetshire customs, it seems that, in perambulating a manor
     or parish, a boy is tossed into a stream, if that be the boundary;
     if a hedge, a sapling from it is applied for the purpose of
     flagellation.--B.]

24th.  At home all the morning making up my private accounts, and this is the first time that
I do find myself to be clearly worth L500 in money, besides all my goods in my house, &c. 
In the afternoon at the office late, and then I went to the Wardrobe, where I found my Lord
at supper, and therefore I walked a good while till he had done, and I went in to him, and
there he looked over my accounts.  And they were committed to Mr. Moore to see me paid what
remained due to me.  Then down to the kitchen to eat a bit of bread and butter, which I did,
and there I took one of the maids by the chin, thinking her to be Susan, but it proved to be
her sister, who is very like her.  From thence home.

25th.  All the morning at home about business.  At noon to the Temple, where I staid and looked
over a book or two at Playford's, and then to the Theatre, where I saw a piece of "The Silent
Woman," which pleased me. So homewards, and in my way bought "The Bondman" in Paul's Churchyard,
and so home, where I found all clean, and the hearth and range, as it is now enlarged, set
up, which pleases me very much.

26th (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed.  To church and heard a good sermon at our own church,
where I have not been a great many weeks.  Dined with my wife alone at home pleasing myself
in that my house do begin to look as if at last it would be in good order.  This day the Parliament
received the communion of Dr. Gunning at St. Margaret's, Westminster. In the afternoon both
the Sir Williams came to church, where we had a dull stranger.  After church home, and so to
the Mitre, where I found Dr. Burnett, the first time that ever I met him to drink with him,
and my uncle Wight and there we sat and drank a great deal, and so I to Sir W. Batten's, where
I have on purpose made myself a great stranger, only to get a high opinion a little more of
myself in them.  Here I heard how Mrs. Browne, Sir W. Batten's sister, is brought to bed, and
I to be one of the godfathers, which I could not nor did deny.  Which, however, did trouble
me very much to be at charge to no purpose, so that I could not sleep hardly all night, but
in the morning I bethought myself, and I think it is very well I should do it.  Home and to bed.

27th.  To the Wardrobe, and from thence with my Lords Sandwich and Hinchinbroke to the Lords'
House by boat at Westminster, and there I left them.  Then to the lobby, and after waiting
for Sir G. Downing's coming out, to speak with him about the giving me up of my bond for my
honesty when I was his clerk, but to no purpose, I went to Clerke's at the Legg, and there
I found both Mr. Pierces, Mr. Rolt, formerly too great a man to meet upon such even terms,
and there we dined very merry, there coming to us Captain Ferrers, this being the first day
of his going abroad since his leap a week ago, which I was greatly glad to see. By water to
the office, and there sat late, Sir George Carteret coming in, who among other things did inquire
into the naming of the maisters for this fleet, and was very angry that they were named as
they are, and above all to see the maister of the Adventure (for whom there is some kind of
difference between Sir W. Pen and me) turned out, who has been in her list.  The office done,
I went with the Comptroller to the Coffee house, and there we discoursed of this, and I seem
to be fond of him, and indeed I find I must carry fair with all as far as I see it safe, but
I have got of him leave to have a little room from his lodgings to my house, of which I am
very glad, besides I do open him a way to get lodgings himself in the office, of which I should
be very glad.  Home and to bed.

28th.  This morning to the Wardrobe, and thence to a little alehouse hard by, to drink with
John Bowies, who is now going to Hinchinbroke this day.  Which still do make me think of the
greatness of this late turn, and what people will do tomorrow against what they all, through
profit or fear, did promise and practise this day.  Then to the Mitre with Mr. Shepley, and
there dined with D. Rawlinson and some friends of his very well.  So home, and then to Cheapside
about buying a piece of plate to give away to-morrow to Mrs. Browne's child.  So to the Star
in Cheapside, where I left Mr. Moore telling L5 out for me, who I found in a great strait for
my coming back again, and so he went his way at my coming.  Then home, where Mr. Cook I met
and he paid me 30s., an old debt of his to me.  So to Sir W. Pen's, and there sat alone with
him till ten at night in talk with great content, he telling me things and persons that I did
not understand in the late times, and so I home to bed.  My cozen John Holcroft (whom I have
not seen many years) this morning came to see me.

29th (King's birth-day).  All being done, we went to Mrs. Shipman's, who is a great butter-woman,
and I did see there the most of milk and cream, and the cleanest that ever I saw in my life.
After we had filled our bellies with cream, we took our leaves and away. In our way, we had
great sport to try who should drive fastest, Sir W. Batten's coach, or Sir W. Pen's chariott,
they having four, and we two horses, and we beat them.  But it cost me the spoiling of my clothes
and velvet coat with dirt.  Being come home I to bed, and give my breeches to be dried by the
fire against to-morrow.

30th.  To the Wardrobe and there, with my Lord, went into his new barge to try her, and found
her a good boat, and like my Lord's contrivance of the door to come out round and not square
as they used to do.  Back to the Wardrobe with my Lord, and then with Mr. Moore to the Temple,
and thence to.  Greatorex, who took me to Arundell-House, and there showed me some fine flowers
in his garden, and all the fine statues in the gallery, which I formerly had seen, and is a
brave sight, and thence to a blind dark cellar, where we had two bottles of good ale, and so
after giving him direction for my silver side-table, I took boat at Arundell stairs, and put
in at Milford .  .  .  . So home and found Sir Williams both and my Lady going to Deptford
to christen Captain Rooth's child, and would have had me with them, but I could not go.  To
the office, where Sir R. Slingsby was, and he and I into his and my lodgings to take a view
of them, out of a desire he has to have mine of me to join to his, and give me Mr. Turner's.
To the office again, where Sir G. Carteret came and sat a while, he being angry for Sir Williams
making of the maisters of this fleet upon their own heads without a full table.  Then the Comptroller
and I to the Coffee House, and there sat a great while talking of many things. So home and
to bed.  I went to my father's thinking to have met with my cozen John Holcroft, but he came
not, but to my great grief I found my father and mother in a great deal of discontent one with
another, and indeed my mother is grown now so pettish that I know not how my father is able
to bear with it.  I did talk to her so as did not indeed become me, but I could not help it,
she being so unsufferably foolish and simple, so that my father, poor man, is become a very
unhappy man.  There I dined, and so home and to the office all the afternoon till 9 at night,
and then home and to supper and to bed.

