An Original Belle

By: E. P. Roe

1900

PREFACE.

No race of men, scarcely an individual, is so devoid of intelligence as not to recognize power.
Few gifts are more courted. Power is almost as varied as character, and the kind of power most
desired or appreciated is a good measure of character. The pre-eminence furnished by thew and
muscle is most generally recognized; but, as men reach levels above the animal, other qualities
take the lead. It is seen that the immaterial spirit wins the greater triumphs,--that the brainless
giant, compared with the dwarf of trained intelligence, can accomplish little. The scale runs
on into the moral qualities, until at last humanity has given its sanction to the Divine words,
"Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." The few who have successfully
grasped the lever of which Archimedes dreamed are those who have attained the highest power
to serve the world.

Among the myriad phases of power, perhaps that of a gifted and beautiful woman is the most
subtile and hard to define. It is not the result of mere beauty, although that may be an important
element; and if wit, intelligence, learning, accomplishments, and goodness are added, all combined
cannot wholly explain the power that some women possess. Deeper, perhaps more potent, than
all else, is an individuality which distinguishes one woman from all others, and imparts her
own peculiar fascination. Of course, such words do not apply to those who are content to be
commonplace themselves, and who are satisfied with the ordinary homage of ordinary minds, or
the conventional attention of men who are incited to nothing better.

One of the purposes of this story is to illustrate the power of a young girl not so beautiful
or so good as many of her sisters. She was rather commonplace at first, but circumstances led
her to the endeavor to be true to her own nature and conscience and to adopt a very simple
scheme of life. She achieved no marvellous success, nothing beyond the ability of multitudes
like herself.

I have also sought to reproduce with some color of life and reality a critical period in our
civil war. The scenes and events of the story culminate practically in the summer of 1863.
The novel was not written for the sake of the scenes or events. They are employed merely to
illustrate character at the time and to indicate its development.

The reader in the South must be bitter and prejudiced indeed if he does not discover that I
have sought to be fair to the impulses and motives of its people.

In touching upon the Battle of Gettysburg and other historical events, I will briefly say that
I have carefully consulted authentic sources of information. For the graphic suggestion of
certain details I am indebted to the "History of the 124th Regt. N.Y.S.V.," by Col. Charles
H. Weygant, to the recollections of Capt. Thomas Taft and other veterans now living.

Lieut.-Col. H. C. Hasbrouck, commandant of Cadets at West Point, has kindly read the proof
of chapters relating to the battle of Gettysburgh.

My story is also related to the New York Draft Riots of 1863, an historical record not dwelt
upon before in fiction to my knowledge. It is almost impossible to impart an adequate impression
of that reign of terror. I have not hoped to do this, or to give anything like a detailed and
complete account of events. The scenes and incidents described, however, had their counterpart
in fact. Rev. Dr. Howard Crosby of New York saw a young man face and disperse a mob of hundreds,
by stepping out upon the porch of his home and shooting the leader. This event took place late
at night.

I have consulted "Sketches of the Draft Riots in 1863," by Hon. J. T. Headley, the files of
the Press of that time, and other records.

The Hon. Thomas C. Acton. Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police during the riot, accorded
me a hearing, and very kindly followed the thread of my story through the stormy period in
question.

E. P. R

CORNWALL-ON-HUDSON, N.Y., AUG. 7, 1885.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. A RUDE AWAKENING

CHAPTER II. A NEW ACQUAINTANCE

CHAPTER III. A NEW FRIEND

CHAPTER IV. WOMAN'S CHIEF RIGHT

CHAPTER V. "BE HOPEFUL, THAT I MAY HOPE"

CHAPTER VI. A SCHEME OF LIFE

CHAPTER VII. SURPRISES

CHAPTER VIII. CHARMED BY A CRITIC

CHAPTER IX. A GIRL'S LIGHT HAND

CHAPTER X. WILLARD MERWYN

CHAPTER XI. AN OATH AND A GLANCE

CHAPTER XII. "A VOW"

CHAPTER XIII. A SIEGE BEGUN

CHAPTER XIV. OMINOUS

CHAPTER XV. SCORN

CHAPTER XVI. AWAKENED AT LAST

CHAPTER XVII. COMING TO THE POINT

CHAPTER XVIII. A GIRL'S STANDARD

CHAPTER XIX. PROBATION PROMISED

CHAPTER XX. "YOU THINK ME A COWARD"

CHAPTER XXI. FEARS AND PERPLEXITIES

CHAPTER XXII. A GIRL'S THOUGHTS AND IMPULSES

CHAPTER XXIII. "MY FRIENDSHIP IS MINE TO GIVE"

CHAPTER XXIV. A FATHER'S FORETHOUGHT

CHAPTER XXV. A CHAINED WILL

CHAPTER XXVI. MARIAN'S INTERPRETATION OF MERWYN

CHAPTER XXVII. "DE HEAD LINKUM MAN WAS CAP'N LANE"

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE SIGNAL LIGHT

CHAPTER XXIX. MARIAN CONTRASTS LANE AND MERWYN

CHAPTER XXX THE NORTH INVADED

CHAPTER XXXI. "I'VE LOST MY CHANCE"

CHAPTER XXXII. BLAUVELT

CHAPTER XXXIII. A GLIMPSE OF WAR

CHAPTER XXXIV. A GLIMPSE OF WAR, CONTINUED

CHAPTER XXXV. THE GRAND ASSAULT

CHAPTER XXXVI. BLAUVELT'S SEARCH FOR STRAHAN

CHAPTER XXXVII. STRAHAN'S ESCAPE

CHAPTER XXXVIII. A LITTLE REBEL

CHAPTER XXXIX. THE CURE OF CAPTAIN LANE

CHAPTER XL. LOVE'S TRIUMPH

CHAPTER XLI. SUNDAY'S LULL AND MONDAY'S STORM

CHAPTER XLII. THAT WORST OF MONSTERS, A MOB

CHAPTER XLIII. THE "COWARD"

CHAPTER XLIV. A WIFE'S EMBRACE

CHAPTER XLV. THE DECISIVE BATTLE

CHAPTER XLVI. "I HAVE SEEN THAT YOU DETEST ME"

CHAPTER XLVII. A FAIR FRIEND AND FOUL FOES

CHAPTER XLVIII. DESPERATE FIGHTING

CHAPTER XLIX. ONE FACING HUNDREDS

CHAPTER L. ZEB

CHAPTER LI. A TRAGEDY

CHAPTER LII. "MOTHER AND SON"

CHAPTER LIII. "MISSY S'WANEE"

AN ORIGINAL BELLE.

CHAPTER I.

A RUDE AWAKENING.

MARIAN VOSBURGH had been content with her recognized position as a leading belle. An evening
spent in her drawing-room revealed that; but at the close of the particular evening which it
was our privilege to select there occurred a trivial incident. She was led to think, and thought
is the precursor of action and change in all natures too strong and positive to drift. On that
night she was an ordinary belle, smiling, radiant, and happy in following the traditions of
her past.

She had been admired as a child, as a school-girl, and given a place among the stars of the
first magnitude since her formal debut. Admiration was as essential as sunshine; or, to change
the figure, she had a large and a natural and healthful appetite for it. She was also quite
as much entitled to it as the majority of her class. Thus far she had accepted life as she
found it, and was in the main conventional. She was not a deliberate coquette; it was not her
recognized purpose to give a heartache to as many as possible; she merely enjoyed in thoughtless
exultation her power to attract young men to her side. There was keen excitement in watching
them, from the moment of introduction, as they passed through the phases of formal acquaintanceship
into relations that bordered on sentiment. When this point was reached experiences sometimes
followed which caused not a little compunction.

She soon learned that society was full of men much like herself in some respects, ready to
meet new faces, to use their old compliments and flirtation methods over and over again. They
could look unutterable things at half a dozen different girls in the same season, while their
hearts remained as invulnerable as old-fashioned pin-cushions, heart-shaped, that adorn country
"spare rooms." But now and then a man endowed with a deep, strong nature would finally leave
her side in troubled wonder or bitter cynicism. Her fair, young face, her violet eyes, so dark
as to appear almost black at night, had given no token that she could amuse herself with feelings
that touched the sources of life and death in such admirers.

"They should have known better, that I was not in earnest," she would say, petulantly, and
more or less remorsefully.

But these sincere men, who had been so blind as to credit her with gentle truth and natural
intuition, had some ideal of womanhood which had led to their blunder. Conscious of revealing
so much themselves by look, tone, and touch of hand, eager to supplement one significant glance
by life-long loyalty, they were slow in understanding that answering significant glances meant
only, "I like you very well,--better than others, just at present; but then I may meet some
one to-morrow who is a great deal more fun than you are."

Fun! With them it was a question of manhood, of life, and of that which gives the highest value
and incentive to life. It was inevitable, therefore, that Marian Vosburgh should become a mirage
to more than one man; and when at last the delusion vanished, there was usually a flinty desert
to be crossed before the right, safe path was gained.

From year to year Mr. Vosburgh had rented for his summer residence a pretty cottage on the
banks of the Hudson. The region abounded in natural beauty and stately homes. There was an
infusion of Knickerbocker blood in the pre-eminently elect ones of society, and from these
there was a gradual shading off in several directions, until by some unwritten law the social
line was drawn. Strangers from the city might be received within the inner circle, or they
might not, as some of the leaders practically decreed by their own action. Mr. Vosburgh did
not care in the least for the circle or its constituents. He was a stern, quiet man; one of
the strong executive hands of the government at a time when the vital questions of the day
had come to the arbitrament of the sword. His calling involved danger, and required an iron
will. The questions which chiefly occupied his mind were argued by the mouths of cannon.

As for Marian, she too cared little for the circle and its social dignitaries. She had no concessions
to make, no court to pay. She was not a dignitary, but a sovereign, and had her own court.
Gentleman friends from the city made their headquarters at a neighboring summer hotel; young
men from the vicinity were attracted like moths, and the worst their aristocratic sisters could
say against the girl was that she had too many male friends, and was not "of their set." Indeed,
with little effort she could have won recognition from the bluest blood of the vicinage; but
this was not her ambition. She cared little for the ladies of her neighborhood, and less for
their ancestors, while she saw as much of the gentlemen as she desired. She had her intimates
among her own sex, however, and was on the best terms with her good-natured, good-hearted,
but rather superficial mother, who was a discreet, yet indulgent chaperon, proud of her daughter
and of the attention she received, while scarcely able to comprehend that any serious trouble
could result from it if the proprieties of life were complied with. Marian was never permitted
to give that kind of encouragement which compromises a girl, and Mrs. Vosburgh felt that there
her duty ceased. All that could be conveyed by the eloquent eye, the inflection of tones, and
in a thousand other ways, was unnoted, and beyond her province.

The evening of our choice is an early one in June. The air is slightly chilly and damp, therefore
the parlor is preferable to the vine-sheltered piazza, screened by the first tender foliage.
We can thus observe Miss Vosburgh's deportment more closely, and take a brief note of her callers.

Mr. Lane is the first to arrive, perhaps for the reason that he is a downright suitor, who
has left the city and business, in order to further the interests nearest his heart. He is
a keen-eyed, strong-looking fellow, well equipped for success by knowledge of the world and
society; resolute, also, in attaining his desired ends.  His attentions to Marian have been
unmistakable for some months, and he believes that he has received encouragement. In truth,
he has been the recipient of the delusive regard that she is in the habit of bestowing. He
is one whom she could scarcely fail to admire and like, so entertaining is he in conversation,
and endowed with such vitality and feeling that his words are not airy nothings.

He greets her with a strong pressure of the hand, and his first glance reveals her power.

"Why, this is an agreeable surprise, Mr. Lane," she exclaims.

"Agreeable? I am very glad to hear that," he says, in his customary direct speech. "Yes, I
ran up from the city this afternoon. On my way to lunch I became aware of the beauty of the
day, and as my thoughts persisted in going up the river I was led to follow them. One's life
does not consist wholly of business, you know; at least mine does not."

"Yet you have the reputation of being a busy man."

"I should hope so. What would you think of a young fellow not busy in these times?"

"I am not sure I should think at all. You give us girls too much credit for thinking."

"Oh, no; there's no occasion for the plural. I don't give 'us girls' anything. I am much too
busy for that. But I know you think, Miss Marian, and have capacity for thought."

"Possibly you are right about the capacity. One likes to think one has brains, you know, whether
she uses them or not. I don't think very much, however,--that is, as you use the word, for
it implies the putting of one's mind on something and keeping it there. I like to let thoughts
come and go as the clouds do in our June skies. I don't mean thunder-clouds and all they signify,
but light vapors that have scarcely beginning or end, and no very definite being. I don't seem
to have time or inclination for anything else, except when I meet you with your positive ways.
I think it is very kind of you to come from New York to give me a pleasant evening."

"I'm not so very disinterested. New York has become a dull place, and if I aid you to pass
a pleasant evening you insure a pleasanter one for me. What have you been doing this long June
day, that you have been too busy for thought?"

"Let me see. What have I been doing? What an uncomfortable question to ask a girl! You men
say we are nothing but butterflies, you know."

"I never said that of you."

"You ask a question which makes me say it virtually of myself. That is a way you keen lawyers
have. Very well; I shall be an honest witness, even against myself. That I wasn't up with the
lark this morning goes without saying. The larks that I know much about are on the wing after
dinner in the evening. The forenoon is a variable sort of affair with many people. Literally
I suppose it ends at 12 M., but with me it is rounded off by lunch, and the time of that event
depends largely upon the kitchen divinity that we can lure to this remote and desolate region.
'Faix,' remarked that potentate, sniffing around disdainfully the day we arrived, 'does yez
expects the loikes o' me to stop in this lonesomeness? We're jist at the ind of the wourld.'
Mamma increased her wages, which were already double what she earns, and she still condescends
to provide our daily food, giving me a forenoon which closes at her convenience. During this
indefinite period I look after my flowers and birds, sing and play a little, read a little,
entertain a little, and thus reveal to you a general littleness. In the afternoon I take a
nap, so that I may be wide awake enough to talk to a bright man like you in case he should
appear. Now, are you not shocked and pained at my frivolous life?"

"You have come to the country for rest and recuperation, Miss Marian?"

"Oh, what a word,--'recuperation!' It never entered my head that I had come into the country
for that. Do I suggest a crying need for recuperation?"

"I wouldn't dare tell you all that you suggest to me, and I read more than you say between
your lines. When I approached the house you were chatting and laughing genially with your mother."

"Oh, yes, mamma and I have as jolly times together as two girls."

"That was evident, and it made a very pleasant impression on me. One thing is not so evident,
and it indicates a rather one-sided condition of affairs. I could not prevent my thoughts from
visiting you often to-day before I came myself, but I fear that among your June-day occupations
there has not been one thought of me."

She had only time to say, sotto voce, "Girls don't tell everything," when the maid announced,
from the door, "Mr. Strahan."

This second comer was a young man precociously mature after a certain style. His home was a
fine old place in the vicinity, but in his appearance there was no suggestion of the country;
nor did he resemble the violet, although he was somewhat redolent of the extract of that modest
flower. He was dressed in the extreme of the prevailing mode, and evidently cultivated a metropolitan
air, rather than the unobtrusive bearing of one who is so thoroughly a gentleman that he can
afford to be himself. Mr. Strahan was quite sure of his welcome, for he felt that he brought
to the little cottage a genuine Madison-avenue atmosphere. He was greeted with the cordiality
which made Miss Vosburgh's drawing-room one of the pleasantest of lounging-places, whether
in town or country; and under his voluble lead conversation took the character of fashionable
gossip, which would have for the reader as much interest as the presentation of some of the
ephemeral weeds of that period. But Mr. Strahan's blue eyes were really animated as he ventured
perilously near a recent scandal in high life. His budget of news was interspersed with compliments
to his hostess, which, like the extract on his handkerchief, were too pronounced. Mr. Lane
regarded him with politely veiled disgust, but was too well-bred not to second Miss Vosburgh's
remarks to the best of his ability.

Before long two or three more visitors dropped in. One from the hotel was a millionnaire, a
widower leisurely engaged in the selection of a second wife. Another was a young artist sketching
in the vicinity. A third was an officer from West Point who knew Mr.  Vosburgh. There were
also callers from the neighborhood during the evening. Mrs. Vosburgh made her appearance early,
and was almost as skilful a hostess as her daughter. But few of the guests remained long. They
had merely come to enjoy a pleasant half-hour or more under circumstances eminently agreeable,
and would then drive on and pay one or two visits in the vicinity. That was the way in which
nearly all Marian's "friendships" began.

The little parlor resounded with animated talk, laughter, and music, that was at the same time
as refined as informal. Mrs. Vosburgh would seat herself at the piano, that a new dancing-step
or a new song might be tried. The gentlemen were at liberty to light their cigars and form
groups among themselves, so free from stiffness was Marian's little salon. Brief time elapsed,
however, without a word to each, in her merry, girlish voice, for she had the instincts of
a successful hostess, and a good-natured sense of honor, which made her feel that each guest
was entitled to attention. She was not much given to satire, and the young men soon learned
that she would say more briery things to their faces than behind their backs. It was also discovered
that ill-natured remarks about callers who had just departed were not tolerated,--that within
certain limits she was loyal to her friends, and that, she was too high-minded to speak unhandsomely
of one whom she had just greeted cordially. If she did not like a man she speedily froze him
out of the ranks of her acquaintance; but for such action there was not often occasion, since
she and her mother had a broad, easy tolerance of those generally accepted by society. Even
such as left her parlor finally with wounds for which there was no rapid healing knew that
no one would resent a jest at their expense more promptly than the girl whom they might justly
blame for having smiled too kindly.

Thus she remained a general favorite. It was recognized that she had a certain kind of loyalty
which could be depended upon. Of course such a girl would eventually marry, and with natural
hope and egotism each one felt that he might be the successful competitor. At any rate, as
in war, they must take their chances, and it seems that there is never a lack of those willing
to assume such risks.

Thus far, however, Marian had no inclination to give up her present life of variety and excitement.
She preferred incense from many worshippers to the devotion of one. The secret of this was
perhaps that her heart had remained so untouched and unconscious that she scarcely knew she
had one. She understood the widower's preference, enjoyed the compliment, and should there
be occasion would, in perfect good taste, beg to be excused.

Her pulse was a little quickened by Mr. Lane's downright earnestness, and when matters should
come to a crisis she would say lovely things to him of her esteem, respect, regret, etc. She
would wish they might remain friends--why could they not, when she liked him so much? As for
love and engagement, she did not, could not, think of that yet.

She was skilful, too, in deferring such crises, and to-night, in obedience to a signal, Mrs.
Vosburgh remained until even Mr. Lane despaired of another word in private, and departed, fearing
to put his fate to the test.

At last the dainty apartment, the merry campaigning-ground, was darkened, and Marian, flushed,
wearied, and complacent, stepped out on the piazza to breathe for a few moments the cool, fragrant
air.  She had dropped into a rustic seat, and was thinking over the events of the evening with
an amused smile, when the following startling words arose from the adjacent shrubbery:--

"Arrah, noo, will ye niver be sinsible? Here I'm offerin' ye me heart, me loife. I'd be glad
to wourk for ye, and kape ye loike a leddy. I'd be thrue to ye ivery day o' me loife,--an'
ye knows it, but ye jist goes on makin' eyes at this wan an' flirtin' wid that wan an' spakin'
swate to the t'other, an' kapin' all on the string till they can nayther ate nor slape nor
be half the min they were till ye bewildered 'em. Ye're nothin' but a giddy, light-minded,
shallow crather, a spoilin' min for your own fun. I've kep' company wid ye a year, and ye've
jist blowed hot and cowld till I'm not meself any more, and have come nigh losin' me place.
Noo, by St. Patrick, ye must show whether ye're a woman or a heartless jade that will sind
a man to the divil for sport."

These words were poured out with the impetuosity of longsuffering endurance finally vanquished,
and before the speaker had concluded Marian was on her way to the door, that she might not
listen to a conversation of so delicate a nature. But she did not pass beyond hearing before
part of the reply reached her.

"Faix, an' I'm no wourse than me young mistress."

It was a chance arrow, but it went straight to the mark, aad when Marian reached her room her
cheeks were aflame.

CHAPTER II.

A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.

Gross matter can change form and character in a moment, when merely touched by the effective
agent. It is easy to imagine, therefore, how readily a woman's quick mind might be influenced
by a truth or a thought of practical and direct application. All the homilies ever written,
all the counsel of matrons and sages, could not have produced on Marian so deep an impression
as was made by these few chance words. They came as a commentary, not only on her past life,
but on the past few hours. Was it true, then, that she was no better than the coquettish maid,
the Irish servant in the family's employ?  Was she, with her education and accomplishments,
her social position and natural gifts, acting on no higher plane, influenced by no worthier
motives and no loftier ambition? Was the ignorant girl justified in quoting her example in
extenuation of a course that to a plain and equally ignorant man seemed unwomanly to the last
degree?

Wherein was she better? Wherein lay the difference between her and the maid?

She covered her hot face with her hands as the question took the form: "Wherein am I worse?
Is not our principle of action the same, while I have greater power and have been crippling
higher types of men, and giving them, for sport, an impulse towards the devil? Fenton Lane
has just gone from my side with trouble in his eyes. He will not be himself to-morrow, not
half the man he might be. He left me in doubt and fear. Could I do anything oppressed with
doubt and fear? He has set his heart on what can never be. Could I have prevented him from
doing this? One thing at least is certain,--I have not tried to prevent it, and I fear there
have been many little nameless things which he would regard as encouragement. And he is only
one. With others I have gone farther and they have fared worse.  It is said that Mr. Folger,
whom I refused last winter, is becoming dissipated. Mr. Arton shuns society and sneers at women.
Oh, don't let me think of any more. What have I been doing that this coarse kitchen-maid can
run so close a parallel between her life and mine?  How unwomanly and repulsive it all seems,
as that man put it! My delight and pride have been my gentleman friends, and what one of them
is the better, or has a better prospect for life, because of having known me? Could there be
a worse satire on all the fine things written about woman and her influence than my hitherto
vain and complacent self?"

Sooner or later conscience tells the truth to all; and the sooner the better, unless the soul
arraigned is utterly weak, or else belongs essentially to the criminal classes, which require
almost a miracle to reverse their evil gravitation. Marian Vosburgh was neither weak nor criminal
at heart. Thus far she had yielded thoughtlessly, inconsiderately, rather than deliberately,
to the circumstances and traditions of her life. Her mother had been a belle and something
of a coquette, and, having had her career, was in the main a good and sensible wife. She had
given her husband little trouble if not much help. She had slight interest in that which made
his life, and slight comprehension of it, but in affectionate indifference she let him go his
way, and was content with her domestic affairs, her daughter, and her novel. Marian had unthinkingly
looked forward to much the same experience as her natural lot. To-night she found herself querying:
"Are there men to-day who are not half what they might have been because of mamma's delusive
smiles? Have any gone down into shadows darker than those cast by misfortune and death, because
she permitted herself to become the light of their lives and then turned away?"

Then came the rather painful reflection: "Mamma is not one to be troubled by such thoughts.
It does not even worry her that she is so little to papa, and that he virtually carries on
his life-work alone. I don't see how I can continue my old life after to-night. I had better
shut myself up in a convent; yet just how I can change everything I scarcely know."

The night proved a perturbed and almost sleepless one from the chaos and bitterness of her
thoughts. The old was breaking up; the new, beginning.

The morning found her listless, discontented, and unhappy. The glamour had faded out of her
former life. She could not continue the tactics practised in coarse imitation by the Irish
servant, who took her cue as far as possible from her mistress. The repugnance was due as much
to the innate delicacy and natural superiority of Marian's nature as to her conscience. Her
clear, practical sense perceived that her course differed from the other only in being veneered
by the refinements of her social position,--that the evil results were much greater. The young
lady's friends were capable of receiving more harm than the maid could inflict upon her acquaintances.

There would be callers again during the day and evening, and she did not wish to see them.
Their society now would be like a glass of champagne from which the life had effervesced.

At last in her restlessness and perplexity she decided to spend a day or two with her father
in their city home, where he was camping out, as he termed it. She took a train to town, and
sent a messenger boy to his office with a note asking him to dine with her.

Mr. Vosburgh looked at her a little inquiringly as he entered his home, which had the comfortless
aspect of a city house closed for the summer.

"Am I de trop, papa? I have come to town for a little quiet, and to do some shopping."

"Come to New York for quiet?"

"Yes. The country is the gayest place now, and you know a good many are coming and going. I
am tired, and thought an evening or two with you would be a pleasant change. You are not too busy?"

"It certainly will be a change for you, Marian."

"Now there's a world of satire in that remark, and deserved, too, I fear. Mayn't I stay?"

"Yes, indeed, till you are tired of me; and that won't be long in this dull place, for we are
scarcely in a condition now to receive callers, you know."

"What makes you think I shall be tired of you soon, papa?"

"Oh--well--I'm not very entertaining. You appear to like variety. I suppose it is the way with
girls."

"You are not consumed with admiration for girls' ways, are you, papa?"

"I confess, my dear, that I have not given the subject much research. As a naturalist would
say, I have no doubt that you and your class have curious habits and interesting peculiarities.
There is a great deal of life, you know, which a busy man has to accept in a general way, especially
when charged with duties which are a severe and constant strain upon his mind. I try to leave
you and your mother as free from care as possible. You left her well, I trust?"

"Very well, and all going on as usual. I'm dissatisfied with myself, papa, and you unconsciously
make me far more so. Is a woman to be only a man's plaything, and a dangerous one at that?"

"Why, Marian, you ARE in a mood! I suppose a woman, like a man, can be very much what she pleases.
You certainly have had a chance to find out what pleases most women in your circle of acquaintances,
and have made it quite clear what pleases you."

"Satire again," she said, despondently. "I thought perhaps you could advise and help me."

He came and took her face between his hands, looking earnestly into her troubled blue eyes.

"Are you not content to be a conventional woman?" he asked, after a moment.

"No!" was her emphatic answer.

"Well, there are many ways of being a little outre in this age and land, especially at this
stormy period. Perhaps you want a career,--something that will give you a larger place in the
public eye?"

She turned away to hide the tears that would come. "O papa, you don't understand me at all,
and I scarcely understand myself," she faltered. "In some respects you are as conventional
as mamma, and are almost a Turk in your ideas of the seclusion of women. The idea of my wanting
public notoriety! As I feel now, I'd rather go to a convent."

"We'll go to dinner first; then a short drive in the park, for you look pale, and I long for
a little fresh air myself. I have been at my desk since seven this morning, and have had only
a sandwich."

"Why do you have to work so hard, papa?"

"I can give you two reasons in a breath,--you mentioned 'shopping,' and my country is at war.
They don't seem very near of kin, do they?  Documents relating to both converge in my desk,
however."

"Have I sent you more bills than usual?"

"Not more than usual."

"I believe I'm a fool."

"I know you are a very pretty little girl, who will feel better after dinner and a drive,"
was the laughing reply.

They were soon seated in a quiet family restaurant, but the young girl was too perturbed in
mind to enjoy the few courses ordered. With self-reproach she recognized the truth that she
was engaged in the rather unusual occupation of becoming acquainted with her father. He sat
before her, with his face, generally stern and inscrutable, softened by a desire to be companionable
and sympathetic. According to his belief she now had "a mood," and after a day or two of quiet
retirement from the world she would relapse into her old enjoyment of social attention, which
would be all the deeper for its brief interruption.

Mr. Vosburgh was of German descent. In his daily life he had become Americanized, and was as
practical in his methods as the shrewd people with whom he dealt, and whom he often outwitted.
Apart from this habit of coping with life just as he found it, he had an inner nature of which
few ever caught a glimpse,--a spirit and an imagination deeply tinged with German ideality
and speculation. Often, when others slept, this man, who appeared so resolute, hard, and uncompromising
in the performance of duties, and who was understood by but few, would read deeply in metaphysics
and romantic poetry. Therefore, the men and women who dwelt in his imagination were not such
as he had much to do with in real life. Indeed, he had come to regard the world of reality
and that of fancy as entirely distinct, and to believe that only here and there, as a man or
woman possessed something like genius, would there be a marked deviation from ordinary types.
The slight differences, the little characteristic meannesses or felicities that distinguished
one from another, did not count for very much in his estimation. When a knowledge of such individual
traits was essential to his plans, he mastered them with singular keenness and quickness of
comprehension.  When such knowledge was unnecessary, or as soon as it ceased to be of service,
he dismissed the extraneous personalities from his mind almost as completely as if they had
had no existence. Few men were less embarrassed with acquaintances than he; yet he had an observant
eye and a retentive memory. When he wanted a man he rarely failed to find the right one. In
the selection and use of men he appeared to act like an intelligent and silent force, rather
than as a man full of human interests and sympathies. He rarely spoke of himself, even in the
most casual way. Most of those with whom he mingled knew merely that he was an agent of the
government, and that he kept his own counsel. His wife was to him a type of the average American
woman,--pretty, self-complacent, so nervous as to require kind, even treatment, content with
feminalities, and sufficiently intelligent to talk well upon every-day affairs. In her society
he smiled at her, said "Yes," good-humoredly, to almost everything, and found slight incentive
to depart from his usual reticence. She had learned the limits of her range, and knew that
within it there was entire liberty, beyond it a will like adamant. They got on admirably together,
for she craved nothing further in the way of liberty and companionship than was accorded her,
while he soon recognized that the prize carried off from other competitors could no more follow
him into his realm of thought and action than she could accompany him on a campaign. At last
he had concluded philosophically that it was just as well. He was engaged in matters that should
not be interfered with or babbled about, and he could come and go without questioning. He had
occasionally thought: "If she were such a woman as I have read of and imagined,--if she could
supplement my reason with the subtilty of intuition and the reticence which some of her sex
have manifested,--she would double my power and share my inner life, for there are few whom
I can trust. The thing is impossible, however, and so I am glad she is content."

As for Marian, she had promised, in his view, to be but a charming repetition of her mother,
with perhaps a mind of larger calibre. She had learned more and had acquired more accomplishments,
but all this resulted, possibly, from her better advantages. Her drawing-room conversation
seemed little more than the ordinary small talk of the day, fluent and piquant, while the girl
herself was as undisturbed by the vital questions of the hour and of life, upon which he dwelt,
as if she had been a child. He knew that she received much attention, but it excited little
thought on his part, and no surprise. He believed that her mother was perfectly competent to
look after the proprieties, and that young fellows, as had been the case with himself, would
always seek pretty, well-bred girls, and take their chances as to what the women who might
become their wives should prove to be.

Marian looked with awakening curiosity and interest at the face before her, yet it was the
familiar visage of her father. She had seen it all her life, but now felt that she had never
before seen it in its true significance--its strong lines, square jaw, and quiet gray eyes,
with their direct, steady gaze. He had come and gone before her daily, petted her now and then
a little, met her requests in the main good-humoredly, paid her bills, and would protect her
with his life; yet a sort of dull wonder came over her as she admitted to herself that he was
a stranger to her. She knew little of his work and duty, less of his thoughts, the mental realm
in which the man himself dwelt. What were its landmarks, what its characteristic features,
she could not tell. One may be familiar with the outlines of a country on a map, yet be ignorant
of the scenery, productions, inhabitants, governing forces, and principles. Her very father
was to her but a man in outline. She knew little of the thoughts that peopled his brain, of
the motives and principles that controlled his existence, giving it individuality, and even
less of the resulting action with which his busy life abounded. Although she had crossed the
threshold of womanhood, she was still to him the self-pleasing child that he had provided for
since infancy; and he was, in her view, the man to whom, according to the law of nature and
the family, she was to look for the maintenance of her young life, with its almost entire separation
in thoughts, pleasures, and interests. She loved him, of course. She had always loved him,
from the time when she had stretched forth her baby hands to be taken and fondled for a few
moments and then relinquished to others. Practically she had dwelt with others ever since.
Now, as a result, she did not understand him, nor he her. She would miss him as she would oxygen
from the air. Now she began to perceive that, although he was the unobtrusive source of her
life, home, education, and the advantages of her lot, he was not impersonal, but a human being
as truly as herself. Did he want more from her than the common and instinctive affection of
a child for its parent? If to this she added intelligent love, appreciation, and sympathy,
would he care?  If she should be able to say, "Papa, I am kin to you, not merely in flesh and
blood, but in mind, hope, and aspiration; I share with you that which makes your life, with
its success and failure, not as the child who may find luxurious externals curtailed or increased,
but as a sympathetic woman who understands the more vital changes in spiritual vicissitude,"--if
she could truthfully say all this, would he be pleased and reveal himself to her?

Thoughts like these passed through her mind as they dined together and drove in the park. When
at last they returned and sat in the dimly-lighted parlor, Mr. Vosburgh recognized that her
"mood" had not passed away.

CHAPTER III.

A NEW FRIEND.

"MARIAN," asked her father, after smoking awhile in silence, "what did you mean by your emphatic
negative when I asked you if you were not content to be a conventional woman? How much do you
mean?"

"I wish you would help me find out, papa."

"How! don't you know?"

"I do not; I am all at sea."

"Well, my dear, to borrow your own illustration, you can't be far from shore yet. Why not return?
You have seemed entirely satisfied thus far."

"Were you content with me, papa?"

"I think you have been a very good little girl, as girls go."

"'Good little girl, as girls go;' that's all."

"That's more than can be said of many."

"Papa, I'm not a little girl; I am a woman of twenty years."

"Yes, I know; and quite as sensible as many at forty."

"I am no companion for you."

"Indeed you are; I've enjoyed having you with me this evening exceedingly."

"Yes, as you would have enjoyed my society ten years ago. I've been but a little girl to you
all the time. Do you know the thought that has been uppermost in my mind since you joined me?"

"How should I? How long does one thought remain uppermost in a girl's mind?"

"I don't blame you for your estimate. My thought is this,--we are not acquainted with each other."

"I think I was acquainted with you, Marian, before this mood began."

"Yes, I think you were; yet I was capable of this 'mood,' as you call it, before."

"My child," said Mr. Vosburgh, coming to her side and stroking her hair, "I have spoken more
to draw you out than for anything else. Heaven forbid that you for a moment should think me
indifferent to anything that relates to your welfare! You wish me to advise, to help you. Before
I can do this I must have your confidence, I must know your thoughts and impulses. You can
scarcely have a purpose yet. Even a quack doctor will not attempt diagnosis or prescribe his
nostrum without some knowledge of the symptoms. When I last saw you in the country you certainly
appeared like a conventional society girl of an attractive type, and were evidently satisfied
so to remain. You see I speak frankly, and reveal to you my habit of making quick practical
estimates, and of taking the world as I find it. You say you were capable of this mood--let
us call it an aspiration--before. I do not deny this, yet doubt it. When people change it is
because they are ripe, or ready for change, as are things in nature. One can force or retard
nature; but I don't believe much in intervention. With many I doubt whether there is even much
opportunity for it. They are capable of only the gradual modification of time and circumstances.
Young people are apt to have spasms of enthusiasm, or of self-reproach and dissatisfaction.
These are of little account in the long run, unless there is fibre enough in character to face
certain questions, decide them, and then act resolutely on definite lines of conduct. I have
now given you my views, not as to a little child, but as to a mature woman of twenty.  Jesting
apart, you ARE old enough, Marian, to think for yourself, and decide whether you will be conventional
or not. The probabilities are that you will follow the traditions of your past in a very ladylike
way. That is the common law. You are too well-bred and refined to do anything that society
would condemn."

"You are not encouraging, papa."

"Nor am I discouraging. If you have within you the force to break from your traditions and
stop drifting, you will make the fact evident. If you haven't it would be useless for me to
attempt to drag, drive, or coax you out of old ways. I am too busy a man to attempt the useless.
But until you tell me your present mental attitude, and what has led to it, we are talking
somewhat at random. I have merely aimed to give you the benefit of some experience."

"Perhaps you are taking the right course; I rather think you are. Perhaps I prove what a child
I am still, because I feel that I should like to have you treat me more as you did when I was
learning to walk. Then you stretched out your hands, and sustained me, and showed me step by
step. Papa, if this is a mood, and I go back to my old, shallow life, with its motives, its
petty and unworthy triumphs, I shall despise myself, and ever have the humiliating consciousness
that I am doing what is contemptible. No matter how one obtains the knowledge of a truth or
a secret, that knowledge exists, remains, and one can't be the same afterwards. It makes my
cheeks tingle that I obtained my knowledge as I did. It came like a broad glare of garish light,
in which I saw myself;" and she told him the circumstances.

He burst into a hearty laugh, and remarked, "Pat did put the ethics of the thing strongly."

"He made 'the thing,' as you call it, odious then and forever. I've been writhing in self-contempt
ever since. When to be conventional is to be like a kitchen-maid, and worse, do you wonder
at my revolt from the past?"

"Others won't see it in that light, my dear."

"What does it matter how others see it? I have my own life to live, to make or mar. How can
I go on hereafter amusing myself in what now seems a vulgar, base, unwomanly way? It was a
coarse, rude hand that awakened me, papa, but I am awake. Since I have met you I have had another
humiliation. As I said, I am not even acquainted with you. I have never shown any genuine interest
in that which makes your life, and you have no more thought of revealing yourself and your
work to me than to a child."

"Marian," said her father, slowly, "I think you are not only capable of a change, but ripe
for it. You inspire hope within me, and this fact carries with it the assurance that you also
inspire respect. No, my dear, you don't know much about me; very few do. No man with a nature
like mine reveals himself where there is no desire for the knowledge, no understanding, no
sympathy, or even where all these exist, unless prompted by his heart. You know I am the last
one in the world to put myself on exhibition. But it would be a heavenly joy to me--I might
add surprise--if my own daughter became like some of the women of whom I have read and dreamed;
and I do read and dream of that in which you little imagine me to be interested. To the world
I am a stern, reticent, practical man I must be such in my calling. In my home I have tried
to be good-natured, affectionate, and philosophical. I have seen little opportunity for anything
more.  I do not complain, but merely state a fact which indicates the general lot. We can rarely
escape the law of heredity, however. A poet and a metaphysician were among our German ancestry;
therefore, leading from the business-like and matter-of-fact apartment of my mind, I have a
private door by which I can slip away into the realm of speculation, romance, and ideals. You
perceive that I have no unnatural or shame-faced reticence about this habit. I tell you of
it the moment you show sufficient interest to warrant my speaking."

"But, papa, I cannot hope to approach or even suggest the ideals of your fancy, dressed, no
doubt, in mediaeval costume, and talking in blank verse."

"That's a superficial view, Marian. Neither poetic or outlandish costume, nor the impossible
language put into the mouths of their creations by the old bards, makes the unconventional
woman. There is, in truth, a conventionality about these very things, only it is antiquated.
It is not a woman's dress or phraseology that makes her an ideal or an inspiration, but what
she is herself. No two leaves are alike on the same tree, but they are all enough alike to
make but one impression. Some are more shapely than others, and flutter from their support
with a fairer and more conspicuous grace to the closely observant; but there is nothing independent
about them, nothing to distinguish them especially from their companions. They fulfil their
general purpose, and fall away. This simile applies to the majority of people. Not only poetry
and romance, but history also, gives us instances wherein men and women differ and break away
from accepted types, some in absurd or grotesque ways, others through the sheer force of gifted
selfishness, and others still in natural, noble development of graces of heart and mind."

"Stop generalizing, and tell me, your silly, vain, flirtatious daughter, how I can be unconventional
in this prosaic midday of civilization."

"Prosaic day? You are mistaken, Marian. There never was a period like it Barbaric principles,
older than Abraham, are now to triumph, or give place to a better and more enlightened human
nature. We almost at this moment hear the echoes of a strife in which specimens of the best
manhood of the age are arrayed against one another in a struggle such as the world has never
witnessed. I have my part in the conflict, and it brings to me great responsibilities and dangers."

"Dangers! You in danger, papa?"

"Yes, certainly. Since you wish to be treated like a woman, and not a child,--since you wish
me to show my real life,--you shall know the truth. I am controlled by the government that
is engaged in a life-and-death struggle to maintain its own existence and preserve for the
nation its heritage of liberty. Thus far I have been able to serve the cause in quiet, unrecognized
ways that I need not now explain; but I am one who must obey orders, and I wish to do so, for
my heart is in the work. I am no better than other men who are risking all. Mamma knows this
in a way, but she does not fully comprehend it. Fortunately she is not one of those who take
very anxious thought for the morrow, and you know I am inclined to let things go on quietly
as long as they will. Thus far I have merely gone to an office as I did before the war, or
else have been absent on trips that were apparently civilian in character, and it has been
essential that I should have as little distraction of mind as possible. I have lived long in
hope that some decisive victory might occur; but the future grows darker, instead of lighter,
and the struggle, instead of culminating speedily, promises to become more deadly and to be
prolonged. There is but one way out of it for me, and that is through the final triumph of
the old flag. Therefore, what a day will bring forth God only knows. There have been times
when I wished to tell you something of this, but there seemed little opportunity. As you said,
a good many were coming and going, you seemed happy and preoccupied, and I got into the habit
of reasoning, 'Every day that passes without a thought of trouble is just so much gained; and
it may be unnecessary to cloud her life with fear and anxiety;' yet perhaps it would be mistaken
kindness to let trouble come suddenly, like an unexpected blow. I confess, however, that I
have had a little natural longing to be more to my only child than I apparently was, but each
day brought its increasing press of work and responsibility, its perplexing and far-reaching
questions. Thus time has passed, and I said, 'Let her be a light-hearted girl as long as she can.'"

"O papa, what a blind, heartless fool I've been!"

"No, my dear, only young and thoughtless, like thousands of others.  It so happened that nothing
occurred to awaken you. One day of your old life begat another. That so slight a thing should
make you think, and desire to be different, promises much to me, for if your nature had been
shallow and commonplace, you wouldn't have been much disturbed. If you have the spirit your
words indicate to-night, it will be better for you to face life in the height and depth of
its reality, trusting in God and your own womanhood for strength to meet whatever comes. Those
who live on this higher plane have deeper sorrows, but also far richer joys, than those who
exist from hand to mouth, as it were, in the immediate and material present. What's more, they
cease to be plebeian in the meaner sense of the word, and achieve at one step a higher caste.
They have broken the conventional type, and all the possibilities of development open at once.
You are still a young, inexperienced girl, and have done little in life except learn your lessons
and amuse yourself, yet in your dissatisfaction and aspiration you are almost infinitely removed
from what you were yesterday, for you have attained the power to grow and develop."

"You are too philosophical for me. How shall I grow or develop?"

"I scarcely know."

"What definite thing shall I do to-morrow?"

"Do what the plant does. Receive the influence that tends to quicken your best impulses and
purposes; follow your awakened conscience naturally. Do what seems to you womanly, right, noble
in little things or in great things, should there be opportunity. Did Shakespeare, as a child,
propose to write the plays which have made him chief among men? He merely yielded to the impulse
when it came.  The law holds good down to you, my little girl. You have an impulse which is
akin to that of genius. Instead of continuing your old indolent, strolling gait on the dead
level of life, you have left the beaten track and faced the mountain of achievement. Every
resolute step forward takes you higher, even though it be but an inch; yet I cannot see the
path by which you will climb, or tell you the height you may gain. The main thing is the purpose
to ascend.  For ihose bent on noble achievement there is always a path. God only knows to what
it may bring you. One step leads to another, and you will be guided better by the instincts
and laws of your own nature than if I tried to lead you step by step. The best I can do is
to give you a little counsel, and a helping hand now and then, as the occasion requires."

"Now in truth, papa, do not all your fine words signify about what you and mamma used to say
years ago,--'You must be a good little girl, and then you will be happy'? It seems to me that
many good people are conventionality itself."

"Many are, and if they ARE good, it is a fortunate phase of conventionality. For instance,
I know of a man who by the law of heredity and the force of circumstances has scarcely a bad
habit or trait, and has many good ones. He meets the duties of life in an ordinary, satisfactory
way, and with little effort on his part I know of another man who externally presents nearly
the same aspect to society, who is quiet and unobtrusive in his daily life, and yet he is fighting
hereditary taint and habit with a daily heroism, such as no soldier in the war can surpass.
He is not conventional, although he appears to be so. He is a knight who is not afraid to face
demons. Genuine strength and originality of character do not consist in saying or doing things
in an unusual way. Voluntary eccentrics are even worse than the imitators of some model or
the careless souls which take .their coloring from chance surroundings. Conventionality ceases
when a human being begins the resolute development of his own. natural law of growth to the
utmost extent. This is true because nature in her higher work is not stereotyped. I will now
be as definite as you can desire. You, for instance, Marian Vosburgh, are as yet, even to yourself,
an unknown quantity. You scarcely know what you are, much less what you may become. This conversation,
and the feeling which led to it, prove this. There are traits and possibilities in your nature
due to ancestors of whom you have not even heard. These combine with your own individual endowments
by nature to make you a separate and distinct being, and you grow more separate and distinct
by developing nature's gifts, traits, powers,--in brief, that which is essentially your own.
Thus nature becomes your ally and sees to it with absolute certainty that you are not like
other people. Following this principle of action you cannot know, nor can any one know, to
just what you may attain. All true growth is from within, outward. In the tree, natural law
prevents distortion or exaggeration of one part over another. In your case reason, conscience,
good taste, must supervise and direct natural impulses. Thus following nature you become natural,
and cease to be conventional. If you don't do this you will be either conventional or queer.
Do you understand me?"

"I think I begin to. Let me see if I do. Let me apply your words to one definite problem,--How
can I be more helpful and companionable to you?"

"Why, Marian, do you not see how infinitely more to me you are already, although scarcely beyond
the wish to be different from what you were? I have talked to you as a man talks to a woman
in the dearest and most unselfish relation of life. There is one thing, however, you never
can know, and that is a father's love for a daughter: it is essentially a man's love and a
man's experience. I am sure it is very different from the affection I should have for a son,
did I possess one. Ever since you were a baby the phrase, 'my little girl,' has meant more
than you can ever know; and now when you come voluntarily to my side in genuine sympathy, and
seek to enter INTELLIGENTLY into that which makes my life, you change everything for the better,
precisely as that which was in cold, gray shadow before is changed by sunlight. You add just
so much by your young, fresh, womanly life to my life, and it is all the more welcome because
it is womanly and different from mine. You cease to be a child, a dependant to be provided
for, and become a friend, an inspiration, a confidante. These relations may count little to
heavy, stolid, selfish men, to whom eating, drinking, excitement, and money-making are the
chief considerations, but to men of mind and ideals, especially to a man who has devoted, his
heart, brain, and life to a cause upon which the future of a nation depends, they are pre-eminent.
You see I am a German at heart, and must have my world of thought and imagination, as well
as the world in which men look at me with cold, hard, and even hostile eyes. Thus far this
ideal world has been peopled chiefly by the shadows of those who have lived in the past or
by the characters of the great creators in poetry. Now if my blue-eyed daughter can prove to
me that she has too much heart and brain to be an ordinary society-girl like half a million
of others, and will share my interest in the great thoughts and achievements of the past and
the greater questions of to-day,--if she can prove that when I have time I may enjoy a tryst
with her in regions far remote from shallow, coarse, commonplace minds,--is not my whole life
enriched? We can read some of my favorite authors together and trace their influence on the
thought of the world. We can take up history and see how to-day's struggle is the result of
the past. I think I could soon give you an intelligent idea of the questions of the time, for
which men are hourly dying. The line of battle stretches across the continent, and so many
are engaged that every few moments a man, and too often a woman from heart-break, dies that
the beloved cause may triumph. Southern girls and women, as a rule, are far more awake to the
events of the time than their sisters in the North. Such an influence on the struggle can scarcely
be over-estimated. They create a public sentiment that drives even the cowardly into the ranks,
and their words and enthusiasm incite brave young men to even chivalric courage. It is true
that there are very many like them in the North, but there are also very many who restrain
the men over whom they have influence,--who are indifferent, as you have been, or in sympathy
with the South,--or who, as is true in most instances, do not yet see the necessity for self-sacrifice.
We have not truly felt the war yet, but it will sooner or later come home to every one who
has a heart. I have been in the South, and have studied the spirit of the people. They are
just as sincere and conscientious as we are, and more in earnest as yet. Christian love and
faith, there, look to Heaven for sanction with absolute sincerity, and mothers send their sons,
girls their lovers, and wives their husbands, to die if need be. For the political conspirators
who have thought first and always of their ambition I have only detestation, but for the people
of the South--for the man I may meet in the ranks and kill if I can--I have profound respect.
I should know he was wrong, I should be equally sure that he believed himself right.

"Look at the clock, my dear, and see how long I have talked to you.  Can you now doubt that
you will be companionable to me? Men down town think I am hard as a rock, but your touch of
sympathy has been as potent as the stroke of Moses' rod. You have had an inundation of words,
and the future is rosy to me with hope because you are not asleep."

"Have I shown lack of interest, papa?"

"No, Marian, your intent eyes have been eloquent with feeling. Therefore I have spoken so long
and fully. You have, as it were, drawn the words from me. You have made this outpouring of
my heart seem as natural as breathing, for when you look as you do to-night, I can almost think
aloud to you. You have a sympathetic face, my child, and when expressing intelligent sympathy
it grows beautiful. It was only pretty before. Prettiness is merely a thing of outline and
color; beauty comes from the soul."

She came and stood at his side, resting her arm lightly on his shoulder.

"Papa," she said, "your words are a revelation to me. Your world is indeed a new one, and a
better one than mine. But I must cease to be a girl, and become a woman, to enter it."

"You need not be less happy; you do not loset anything. A picture is ever finer for shadows
and depth of perspective. You can't get anything very fine, in either art or life, from mere
bright surface glare."

"I can't go back to that any more; something in my very soul tells me that I cannot; and your
loneliness and danger would render even the wish to do so base. No, I feel now that I would
rather be a woman, even though it involves a crown of thorns, than to be a shallow creature
that my own heart would despise. I may never be either wise or deep, but I shall be to you
all I can."

"You do very much for me in those words alone, my darling. As I said before, no one can tell
what you may become if you develop your own nature naturally."

CHAPTER IV.

WOMAN'S CHIEF RIGHT.

It was late when Marian and her father parted, and each felt that a new era had begun in their
lives. To the former it was like a deep religious experience. She was awed and somewhat depressed,
as well as resolute and earnest. Life was no pleasure excursion to her father. Questions involving
the solemnity of danger, possibly death, occupied his mind. Yet it was not of either that he
thought, but of the questions themselves. She saw that he was a large-hearted, large-brained
man, who entered into the best spirit of his age, and found recreation in the best thought
of the past, and she felt that she was still but a little child beside him.

"But I shall no longer be a silly child or a shallow, selfish, unfeeling girl. I know there
is something better in my nature than this. Papa's words confirm what I have read but never
thought of much: the chief need of men who can do much or who amount to much is the intelligent
sympathy of women who understand and care for them.  Why, it was the inspiration of chivalry,
even in the dark ages.  Well, Marian Vosburgh, if you can't excel a kitchen-maid, it would
be better that you had never lived."

The sun was shining brightly when she wakened on the following morning, and when she came to
breakfast their domestic handed her a note from her father, by which she was informed that
he would dine with her earlier than usual, and that they would take a sail down the bay.

Brief as it was, it breathed an almost lover-like fondness and happiness. She enjoyed her first
exultant thrill at her sense of power as she comprehended that he had gone to his work that
day a stronger and more hopeful man.

She went out to do her shopping, and was soon in a Broadway temple of fashion, but found that
she was no longer a worshipper. A week before the beautiful fabrics would have absorbed her
mind and awakened intense desires, for she had a passion for dress, and few knew how to make
more of it than she. But a new and stronger passion was awakening. She was made to feel at
last that she had not only a woman's lovely form and features, but a woman's mind. Now she
began to dream of triumphs through the latter, and her growing thought was how to achieve them.
Not that she was indifferent to her costume; it should be like the soldier's accoutrements;
her mind the weapon.

As is common with the young to whom any great impulse or new, deep experience comes, she was
absorbed by it, and could think of little else. She went over her father's words again and
again, dwelling on the last utterance, which had contained the truth uppermost in all that
he had said,--"Develop the best in your own nature naturally."

What was her own nature, her starting-point? Her introspection was not very reassuring. She
felt that perhaps the most hopeful indication was her strong rebound from what she at last
recognized as mean and unworthy. She also had a little natural curiosity and vanity to see
if her face was changing with changing motives. Was there such a difference between prettiness
and beauty? She was perfectly sure she would rather be beautiful than pretty.

Her mirror revealed a perplexed young face, suggesting interrogation-points. The day was ending
as it had begun, with a dissatisfaction as to the past, amounting almost to disgust, and with
fears, queries, and uncertainties concerning the future. How should she take up life again?
How should she go on with it?

More importunate still was the question, "What has the future in store for me and for those
I love? Papa spoke of danger; and when I think of his resolute face, I know that nothing in
the line of duty will daunt him. He said that it might not be kindness to leave me in my old,
blind, unthinking ignorance,--that a blow, shattering everything, might come, finding us all
unprepared. Oh, why don't mamma feel and see more? We have been just like comfortable passengers
on a ship, while papa was facing we knew not what. I may not be of much use, but I feel now
as if I wanted to be with him. To stay below with scarcely any other motive than to have a
good time, and then to be paralyzed, helpless, when some shock of trouble comes, now seems
silly and weak to the last degree. I am only too glad that I came to my senses in time, for
if anything should happen to papa, and I had to remember all my days that I had never been
much to him, and had left him to meet the stress of life and danger alone, I am sure I should
be wretched from self-reproach."

When he came at six o'clock, she met him eagerly, and almost her first words were, "Papa, there
hasn't been any danger to-day?"

"Oh, no; none at all; only humdrum work. You must not anticipate trouble. Soldiers, you know,
jest and laugh even when going into battle, and they are all the better soldiers for the fact.
No; I have given you a wrong impression. Nothing has been humdrum to-day. An acquaintance down
town said: 'What's up, Vosburgh? Heard good news? Have our troops scored a point?' You see
I was so brightened up that he thought nothing but a national victory could account for the
improvement. Men are like armies, and are twice as effective when well supported."

"The idea of my supporting you!"

"To me it's a charming idea. Instead of coming back to a dismal, empty house, I find a blue-eyed
lassie who will go with me to dinner, and add sauce piquante to every dish. Come, I am not
such a dull, grave old fellow as you imagine. You shall see how gallant I can become under
provocation. We must make the most of a couple of hours, for that is all that I can give you.
No sail to-night, as I had planned, for a government agent is coming on from Washington to
see me, and I must be absent for at least an hour or two after eight o'clock. You won't mope,
will you? You have something to read? Has the day been very long and lonely? What have you
been doing and thinking about?"

"When are you going to give me a chance to answer?"

"Oh, I read your answer, partly at least, in your eyes. You can amplify later. Come, get ready
for the street. Put on what you please, so that you wear a smile. These are not times to worry
over slight reverses as long as the vital points are safe."

The hour they passed at dinner gave Marian a new revelation of her father. The quiet man proved
true the words of Emerson, "Among those who enjoy his thought, he will regain his tongue."

At first he drew her out a little, and with his keen, quick insight he understood her perplexity,
her solicitude about him and herself and the future, her resolute purpose to be a woman, and
the difficulties of seeing the way to the changes she desired. Instead of replying directly
to her words, he skilfully led their talk to the events of the day, and contemporaneous history
became romance under his version; the actors in the passing drama ceased to be names and officials,
and were invested with human interest. She was made to see their motives, their hopes, fears,
ambitions; she opened her eyes in surprise at his knowledge of prominent people, their social
status, relations, and family connection. A genial light of human interest played over most
of his words, yet now and then they touched on the depths of tragedy; again he seemed to be
indulging in sublimated gossip, and she saw the men and women who posed before the public in
their high stations revealed in their actual daily life.

She became so interested that at times she left her food untasted. "How can you know all this?"
she exclaimed.

"It is my business to know a great deal," he replied. "Then natural curiosity leads me to learn
more. The people of whom I have spoken are the animated pieces on the chess-board. In the tremendous
game that we are playing, success depends largely on their strength, weakness, various traits,--in
brief, their character. The stake that I have in the game leads me to know and watch those
who are exerting a positive influence. It is interesting to study the men and women who, in
any period, made and shaped history, and to learn the secrets of their success and failure.
Is it not natural that men and women who are making history to-day--who in fact are shaping
one's own history--should be objects of stronger attention? Now, as in the past, women exert
a far greater influence on current events than you would imagine. There are but few thrones
of power behind which you will not find a woman. What I shall do or be during the coming weeks
and months depends upon some of the people I have sketched, free-handed, for you alone. You
see the sphinx--for as such I am regarded by many--opens his mouth freely to you. Can you guess
some of my motives for this kind of talk?"

"You have wanted to entertain me, papa, and you have succeeded. You should write romances,
for you but touch the names one sees in the papers and they become dramatic actors."

"I did want to entertain you and make a fair return for your society; I wish to prove that
I can be your companion as truly as you can become mine; but I have aimed to do more. I wish
you to realize how interesting the larger and higher world of activity is. Do not imagine that
in becoming a woman, earnest and thoughtful, you are entering on an era of solemn platitudes.
You are rather passing from a theatre of light comedy to a stage from which Shakespeare borrowed
the whole gamut of human feeling, passion, and experience.  I also wished to satisfy you that
you have mind enough to become absorbed as soon as you begin to understand the significance
of the play. After you have once become an intelligent spectator of real life you can no more
go back to drawing-room chit-chat, gossip, and flirtation than you can lay down Shakespeare's
'Tempest' for a weak little parlor comedy. I am too shrewd a man, Marian, to try to disengage
you from the past by exhortations and homilies; and now that you have become my friend, I shall
be too sincere with you to disguise my purposes or methods. I propose to co-operate frankly
with you in your effort, for in this way I prove my faith in you and my respect for you. Soon
you will find yourself an actor in real life, as well as a spectator."

"I fear I have been one already,--a sorry one, too. It is possible to do mischief without being
very intelligent or deliberate. You are making my future, so far as you are concerned, clearer
than I imagined it could be. You do interest me deeply. In one evening you make it evident
how much I have lost in neglecting you--for I have neglected you, though not intentionally.
Hereafter I shall be only too proud if you will talk to me as you have done, giving me glimpses
of your thoughts, your work, and especially your dangers, where there are any. Never deceive
me in this respect, or leave me in ignorance. Whatever may be the weaknesses of my nature,
now that I have waked up, I am too proud a girl to receive all that I do from your hands and
then give almost my whole life and thought to others.  I shall be too delighted if you are
happier for my meddling and dropping down upon you. I'll keep your secrets too, you see;" and
she confirmed her words by an emphatic little nod. "You can talk to me about people, big and
little, with whom you have to do, just as serenely as if you were giving your confidence to
an oyster.

"But, papa, I am confronted by a question of real life, just as difficult for me as any that
can perplex you. I can't treat this question any more as I have done. I don't see my way at
all. Now I am going to be as direct and straightforward as a man, and not beat around the bush
with any womanish finesse. There is a gentleman in this city who, if he knew I was in town
to-night, would call, and I might not be able to prevent him from making a formal proposal.
He is a man whom I respect and like very much, and I fear I have been too encouraging,--not
intentionally and deliberately you know, but thoughtlessly. He was the cleverest and the most
entertaining of my friends, and always brought a breezy kind of excitement with him.  Don't
you see, papa? That is what I lived for, pleasure and excitement, and I don't believe that
anything can be so exciting to a girl as to see a man yielding to her fascinations, whatever
they may be. It gives one a delicious sense of power. I shall be frank, too. I must be, for
I want your advice. You men like power. History is full of the records of those who sold their
own souls for it, and walked through blood and crime to reach it. I think it is just as natural
for a woman to love power also, only now I see that it is a cruel and vile thing to get it
and use it merely for amusement. To me it was excitement. I don't like to think how it may
all end to a man like Fenton Lane, and I am so remorseful that I am half inclined to sacrifice
myself and make him as good a wife as I can."

"Do you love him?"

"No. I don't think I know what love is. When a mere girl I had a foolish little flame that
went out with the first breath of ridicule. Since that time I have enjoyed gentlemen's society
as naturally as any other girl of our set, perhaps more keenly. Their talk and ways are so
different from those of girls! Then my love of power came in, you see. The other girls were
always talking about their friends and followers, and it was my pride to surpass them all.
I liked one better than another, of course, but was always as ready for a new conquest as that
old fool, 'Alexander the Little,' who ran over the world and especially himself. What do you
think, papa? Shall I ever see one who will make all the others appear as nothing? Or, would
it be nobler to devote myself to a true, fine man, like Mr. Lane, no matter how I felt?"

"God forbid! You had better stay at your mother's side till you are as old and wrinkled as
Time himself."

"I am honestly glad to hear you say so. But what am I to do? Sooner or later I shall have to
refuse Mr. Lane, and others too."

"Refuse them, then. He would be less than a man who would ask a girl to sacrifice herself for
him. No, my dear, the most inalienable right of your womanhood is to love freely and give yourself
where you love. This right is one of the issues of this war,--that the poorest woman in this
land may choose her own mate. Slavery is the corner-stone of the Confederacy, wherein millions
of women can be given according to the will of masters. Should the South triumph, phases of
the Old-World despotism would creep in with certainly, and in the end we should have alliances,
not marriages, as is the case so generally abroad. Now if a white American girl does not make
her own choice she is a weak fool. The law and public sentiment protect her. If she will not
choose wisely, she must suffer the consequences, and only under the impulse of love can a true
choice be made. A girl must be sadly deficient in sense if she loves a weak, bad, disreputable
man, or a vulgar, ignorant one. Such mesalliances are more in seeming than in reality, for
the girl herself is usually near in nature to what she chooses. There are few things that I
would more earnestly guard you against than a loveless marriage. You would probably miss the
sweetest happiness of life, and you would scarcely escape one of its worst miseries."

"That settles it, then. I am going to choose for myself,--to stay with you and mamma, and to
continue sending you my bills indefinitely."

"They will be love letters, now."

"Very dear ones, you will think sometimes. But truly, papa, you must not let me spend more
than you can afford. You should be frank on this point also, when you know I do not wish to
be inconsiderate. The question still remains, What am I to do with Mr. Lane?"

"Now I shall throw you on your own resources. I believe your woman's tact can manage this question
better than my reason; only, if you don't love him and do not think you can, be sure to refuse
him. I have nothing against Mr. Lane, and approve of what I know about him; but I am not eager
to have a rival, or to lose what I have so recently gained. Nevertheless, I know that when
the true knight comes through the wood, my sleeping beauty will have another awakening, compared
with which this one will seem slight indeed. Then, as a matter of course, I will quietly take
my place as 'second fiddle' in the harmony of your life. But no discordant first fiddle, if
you please; and love alone can attune its strings. My time is up, and, if I don't return early,
go to bed, so that mamma may not say you are the worse for your days in town. This visit has
made me wish for many others."

"You shall have them, for, as Shakespeare says, your wish 'jumps' with mine."

CHAPTER V.

"BE HOPEFUL, THAT I MAY HOPE."

LEFT to herself Marian soon threw down the book she tried to read, and thought grew busy with
her father's later words. Was there then a knight--a man--somewhere in the world, so unknown
to her that she would pass him in the street without the slightest premonition that he was
the arbiter of her destiny? Was there some one, to whom imagination could scarcely give shadowy
outline, so real and strong that he could look a new life into her soul, set all her nerves
tingling, and her blood coursing in mad torrents through her veins?  Was there a stranger,
whom now she would sweep with a casual glance, who still had the power to subdue her proud
maidenhood, overcome the reserve which seemed to reach as high as heaven, and lay a gentle
yet resistless grasp, not only on her sacred form, but on her very soul? Even the thought made
her tremble with a vague yet delicious dread. Then she sprung to her feet and threw back her
head proudly as she uttered aloud the words, "If this can ever be true, my power shall be equal
to his."

A moment later she was evoking half-exultant chords from the piano. These soon grew low and
dreamy, and the girl said softly to herself: "I have lived more in two days than in months
of the past. Truly real life is better than a sham, shallow existence."

The door-bell rang, and she started to her feet. "Who can know I am in town?" she queried.

Fenton Lane entered with extended hand and the words: "I was passing and knew I could not be
mistaken in your touch. Your presence was revealed by the music as unmistakably as if I had
met you on the street. Am I an intruder? Please don't order me away under an hour or two."

"Indeed, Mr. Lane, truth compels me to say that I am here in deep retirement. I have been contemplating
a convent."

"May I ask your motive?"

"To repent of my sins."

"You would have to confess at a convent. Why not imagine me a venerable father, dozing after
a good dinner, and make your first essay at the confessional?"

"You tax my imagination too greatly. So I should have to confess; therefore no convent for me."

"Of course not. I should protest against it at the very altar, and in the teeth of the Pope
himself. Can't you repent of your sins in some other way?"

"I suppose I shall have to."

"They would be a queer lot of little peccadilloes. I should like to set them all under a microscope."

"I would rather that your glass should be a goblet brimmed from Lethe."

"There is no Lethe for me, Miss Marian, so far as you are concerned."

"Come, tell me the news from the seat of war," she said, abruptly.

"This luxurious arm-chair is not a seat of war."

"Papa has been telling me how Southern girls make all the men enlist."

"I'll enlist to-morrow, if you ask me to."

"Oh, no. You might be shot, and then you would haunt me all my life."

"May I not haunt you anyway?" said Lane, resolutely, for he had determined not to let this
opportunity pass. She was alone, and he would confirm the hope which her manner for months
had inspired. "Come, Miss Marian," he continued, springing to his feet and approaching her
side, his dark eyes full of fire and entreaty; "you cannot have misunderstood me. You know
that while not a soldier I am also not a carpet-knight and have not idled in ladies' bowers.
I have worked hard and dreamed of you. I am willing to do all that a man can to win you. Cowardice
has not kept me from the war, but you.  If it would please you I would put on the blue and
shoulder a musket to-morrow. If you will permit more discretion and time, I can soon obtain
a commission as an officer. But before I fight other battles, I wish to win the supreme victory
of my life. Whatever orders I may take from others, you shall ever be my superior officer.
You have seen this a long time; a woman of your mind could not help it. I have tried to hope
with all a lover's fondness that you gave me glimpses of your heart also, but of this nothing
would satisfy a man of my nature but absolute assurance."

He stood proudly yet humbly before her, speaking with strong, impassioned, fluent utterance,
for he was a man who had both the power and the habit of expression.

She listened with something like dismay. Her heart, instead of kindling, grew only more heavy
and remorseful. Her whole nature shrunk, while pity and compunction wrung tears from her eyes.
This was real life in very truth. Here was a man ready to give up safe, luxurious existence,
a career already successful, and face death for her. She knew him well enough to be sure that
if he could wear her colors he would march away with the first regiment that would receive
him. He was not a man to be influenced by little things, but yielded absolutely to the supreme
impulses of his life. If she said the word, he would make good his promise with chivalrous,
straightforward promptness, facing death, and all that death could then mean to him, with a
light, half-jaunty courage characteristic of the ideal soldier. She had a secret wonder at
herself that she could know all this and yet be so vividly conscious that what he asked could
never be. Her womanly pity said yes; her woman's heart said no. He was eager to take her in
his arms, to place the kiss of life-long loyalty on her lips; but in her very soul she felt
that it would be almost sacrilege for him to touch her; since the divine impulse to yield,
without which there can be no divine sanction, was absent.

She listened, not as a confused, frightened girl, while he spoke that which she had guessed
before. Other men had sued, although none had spoken so eloquently or backed their words by
such weight of character. Her trouble, her deep perplexity, was not due to a mere declaration,
but was caused by her inability to answer him. The conventional words which she would have
spoken a few days before died on her lips. They would be an insult to this earnest man, who
had the right to hope for something better. What was scarcely worse--for there are few emergencies
in which egotism is wholly lost--she would appear at once to him and to herself in an odious
light. Her course would be well characterized by the Irish servant's lover, for here was a
man who from the very fineness of his nature, if wronged, might easily go to the devil.

His words echoed her thought, for her hesitation and the visible distress on her face led him
to exclaim, in a voice tense with something like agony: "O Marian, since you hesitate, hesitate
longer. Think well before you mar--nay, spoil--my life. For God's sake don't put me off with
some of the sham conventionalities current with society girls. I could stand anything better
than that.  I am in earnest; I have always been in earnest; and I saw from the first, through
all your light, graceful disguises, that you were not a shallow, brainless, heartless creature,--that
a noble woman was waiting to be wakened in your nature. Give me time; give yourself time. This
is not a little affair that can be rounded off according to the present code of etiquette;
it is a matter of life or death to me. Be more merciful than a rebel bullet."

She buried her face in her hands and sobbed helplessly.

He was capable of feeling unknown depths of tenderness, but there was little softness in his
nature. As he looked down upon her, his face grew rigid and stern. In her sobs he read his
answer,--the unwillingness, probably the inability, of her heart to respond to his,--and he
grew bitter as he thought of the past.

With the cold, quiet tones of one too strong, controlled, and well-bred to give way violently
to his intense anger, he said: "This is a different result from what you led me to expect.
All your smiles end in these unavailing tears. Why did you smile so sweetly after you understood
me, since you had nothing better in store? I was giving you the homage, the choice of my whole
manhood, and you knew it. What were you giving me? Why did your eyes draw out my heart and
soul? Do you think that such a man as I can exist without heart and soul? Did you class me
with Strahan, who can take a refusal as he would lose a game of whist? No, you did not. I saw
in your very eyes a true estimate of Strahan and all his kind. Was it your purpose to win a
genuine triumph over a man who cared nothing for other women? Why then don't you enjoy it?
You could not ask for anything more complete."

"Trample on me--I deserve it," she faltered.

After a moment's pause, he resumed: "I have no wish to trample on you. I came here with as
much loyalty and homage as ever a man brought to a woman in any age. I have offered you any
test of my love and truth that you might ask. What more could a man do? As soon as I knew what
you were to me, I sought your father's permission to win you, and I told you my secret in every
tone and glance. If your whole nature shrunk from me, as I see it does, you could have told
me the truth months since, and I should have gone away honoring you as a true-hearted, honest
girl, who would scorn the thought of deceiving and misleading an earnest man. You knew I did
not belong to the male-flirt genus. When a man from some sacred impulse of his nature would
give his very life to make a woman happy, is it too much to ask that she should not deliberately,
and for mere amusement, wreck his life? If she does not want his priceless gift, a woman with
your tact could have revealed the truth by one glance, by one inflection of a tone. Not that
I should have been discouraged so easily, but I should have accepted an unspoken negative long
since with absolute respect. But now--" and he made a gesture eloquent with protest and despair.

"But now," she said, wearily, "I see it all in the light in which you put it. Be content; you
have spoiled my life as truly as I have yours."

"Yes, for this evening. There will be only one less in your drawing-room when you return."

"Very well," she replied, quietly. Her eyes were dry and hot now, and he could almost see the
dark lines deepening under them, and the increasing pallor of her face. "I have only this to
say. I now feel that your words are like blows, and they are given to one who is not resisting,
who is prostrate;" and she rose as if to indicate that their interview should end.

He looked at her uneasily as she stood before him, with her pallid face averted, and every
line of her drooping form suggesting defeat rather than triumph; yes, far more than defeat--the
apathetic hopelessness of one who feels himself mortally wounded.

"Will you please tell me just what you mean when you say I have spoiled your life?" he asked.

"How should I know? How should anyone know till he has lived out its bitterness? What do you
mean by the words? Perhaps you will remember hereafter that your language has been inconsistent
as well as merciless. You said I was neither brainless nor heartless; then added that you had
spoiled my life merely for one evening. But there is no use in trying to defend myself: I should
have little to urge except thoughtlessness, custom, the absence of evil intention,--other words
should prove myself a fool, to avoid being a criminal. Go on and spoil your life; you seem
to be wholly bent upon it. Face rebel bullets or do some other reckless thing. I only wish
to give you the solace of knowing that you have made me as miserable as a girl can be, and
that too at a moment when I was awakening to better things. But I am wasting your valuable
time. You believe in your heart that Mr. Strahan can console me with his gossip to-morrow evening,
whatever happens."

"Great God! what am I to believe?"

She turned slowly towards him and said, gravely: "Do not use that name, Mr. Lane. He recognizes
the possibility of good in the weakest and most unworthy of His creatures. He never denounces
those who admit their sin and would turn from it."

He sprung to her side and took her hand. "Look at me," he pleaded.

His face was so lined and eloquent with suffering that her own lip quivered.

"Mr. Lane," she said, "I have wronged you. I am very sorry now. I've been sorry ever since
I began to think--since you last called. I wish you could forgive me. I think it would be better
for us both if you could forgive me."

He sunk into a chair and burying his face in his hands groaned aloud; then, in bitter soliloquy,
said: "O God! I was right--I knew I was not deceived. She is just the woman I believed her
to be. Oh, this is worse than death!"

No tears came into his eyes, but a convulsive shudder ran through his frame like that of a
man who recoils from the worst blow of fate.

"Reproach--strike me, even," she cried. "Anything is better than this. Oh, that I could--but
how can I? Oh, what an unutterable fool I have been! If your love is so strong, it should also
be a little generous. As a woman I appeal to you."

He rose at once and said: "Forgive me; I fear that I have been almost insane,--that I have
much to atone for."

"O Mr. Lane, I entreat you to forgive me. I did admire you; I was proud of your preference,--proud
that one so highly thought of and coveted by others should single me out. I never dreamt that
my vanity and thoughtlessness could lead to this. If you had been ill or in trouble, you would
have had my honest sympathy, and few could have sacrificed more to aid you. I never harbored
one thought of cold-blooded malice. Why must I be punished as if I had committed a deliberate
crime? If I am the girl you believe me to be, what greater punishment could I have than to
know that I had harmed a man like you? It seems to me that if I loved any one I could suffer
for him and help him, without asking anything in return. I could give you honest friendship,
and take heart-felt delight in every manly success that you achieved. As a weak, faulty girl,
who yet wishes to be a true woman, I appeal to you. Be strong, that I may be strong; be hopeful,
that I may hope; be all that you can be, that I may not be disheartened on the very threshold
of the better life I had chosen."

He took her hand, and said: "I am not unresponsive to your words. I feel their full force,
and hope to prove that I do; but there is a tenacity in my nature that I cannot overcome. You
said, 'if you loved'--do you not love any one?"

"No. You are more to me--twice more--than any man except my father."

"Then, think well. Do not answer me now, unless you must. Is there not a chance for me? I am
not a shadow of a man, Marian. I fear I have proved too well how strong and concentrated my
nature is. There is nothing I would not do or dare--"

"No, Mr. Lane; no," she interrupted, shaking her head sadly, "I will never consciously mislead
a man again a single moment. I scarcely know what love is; I may never know; but until my heart
prompts me, I shall never give the faintest hope or encouragement of this nature. I have been
taught the evil of it too bitterly."

"And I have been your remorseless teacher, and thus perhaps have destroyed my one chance."

"You are wrong. I now see that your words were natural to one like you, and they were unjust
only because I was not deliberate. Mr. Lane, let me be your friend. I could give you almost
a sister's love; I could be so proud of you!"

"There," he said. "You have triumphed after all. I pledge you my word--all the manhood I possess--I
will do whatever you ask."

She took his hand in both her own with a look of gratitude he never forgot, and spoke gladly:
"Now you change everything. Oh, I am so glad you did not go away before! What a sad, sleepless
night I should have had, and sad to-morrows stretching on indefinitely! I ask very much, very
much indeed,--that you make the most and best of yourself. Then I can try to do the same. It
will be harder for you than for me. You bring me more hope than sadness; I have given you more
sadness than hope. Yet I have absolute faith in you because of what papa said to me last night.
I had asked him how I could cease to be what I was, be different, you know, and he said, 'Develop
the best in your own nature naturally.' If you will do this I shall have no fears."

"Yet I have been positively brutal to you to-night."

"No man can be so strong as you are and be trifled with. I understand that now, Mr. Lane. You
had no sentimentality to be touched, and my tears did not move you in the least until you believed
in my honest contrition."

"I have revealed to you one of my weaknesses. I am rarely angry, but when I am, my passion,
after it is over, frightens me. Marian, you do forgive me in the very depths of your heart?"

"I do indeed,--that is, if I have anything to forgive under the circumstances."

"Poor little girl! how pale you are! I fear you are ill."

"I shall soon be better,--better all my life for your forgiveness and promise."

"Thank God that we are parting in this manner," he said. "I don't like to think of what might
have happened, for I was in the devil's own mood. Marian, if you make good the words you have
spoken to-night, if you become the woman you can be, you will have a power possessed by few.
It was not your beauty merely that fascinated me, but a certain individuality,--something all
your own, which gives you an influence apparently absolute. But I shall speak no more in this
strain. I shall try to be as true a friend as I am capable of becoming, although an absent
one. I must prove myself by deeds, not words, however. May I write to you sometimes? I will
direct my letters under the care of your father, and you may show them to him or your mother,
as you wish."

"Certainly you may, and you will be my first and only gentleman correspondent. After what has
passed between us, it would be prudery to refuse. Moreover, I wish to hear often of your welfare.
Never for a moment will my warm interest cease, and you can see me whenever you wish. I have
one more thing to ask,--please take up your old life to-morrow, just where you left off. Do
nothing hastily, or from impulse. Remember you have promised to make the most and best of yourself,
and that requires you to give conscience and reason fair hearing. Will you also promise this?"

"Anything you asked, I said."

"Then good-by. Never doubt my friendship, as I shall not doubt yours."

Her hand ached from the pressure of his, but the pain was thus drawn from her heart.

CHAPTER VI.

A SCHEME OF LIFE.

MARIAN waited for her father's return, having been much too deeply excited for the speedy advent
of quiet sleep. When at last he came she told him everything. As she described the first part
of the interview his brow darkened, but his face softened as she drew toward the close. When
she ceased he said:--

"Don't you see I was right in saying that your own tact would guide you better than my reason?
If I, instead of your own nature, had directed you, we should have made an awful mess of it.
Now let me think a moment. This young fellow has suggested an idea to me,--a general line of
action which I think you can carry out. There is nothing like a good definite plan,--not cast-iron,
you know, but flexible and modified by circumstances as you go along, yet so clear and defined
as to give you something to aim at. Confound it, that's what's the matter with our military
authorities. If McClellan is a ditch-digger let them put a general in command; or, if he is
a general, give him what he wants and let him alone. There is no head, no plan. I confess,
however, that just now I am chiefly interested in your campaigns, which, after all, stand the
best chance of bringing about union, in spite of your negative mood manifested to-night. Nature
will prove too strong for you, and some day--soon probably--you will conquer, only to surrender
yourself. Be that as it may, the plan I suggest need not be interfered with. Be patient. I'm
only following the tactics in vogue,--taking the longest way around to the point to be attacked.
Lane said that if you carried out your present principle of action you would have a power possessed
by few. I think he is right. I'm not flattering you.  Little power of any kind can co-exist
with vanity. The secret of your fascination is chiefly in your individuality. There are other
girls more beautiful and accomplished who have not a tithe of it.  Now and then a woman is
peculiarly gifted with the power to influence men,--strong men, too. You had this potency in
no slight degree when neither your heart nor your brain was very active. You will find that
it will increase with time, and if you are wise it will be greater when you are sixty than
at present. If you avoid the Scylla of vanity on the one hand, and the Charybdis of selfishness
on the other, and if the sympathies of your heart keep pace with a cultivated mind, you will
steadily grow in social influence. I believe it for this reason: A weak girl would have been
sentimental with Lane, would have yielded temporarily, either to his entreaty or to his anger,
only to disappoint him in the end, or else would have been conventional in her refusal and
so sent him to the bad, probably. You recognized just what you could be to him, and had the
skill--nature, rather, for all was unpremeditated--to obtain an influence by which you can
incite him to a better manhood and a greater success, perhaps, than if he were your accepted
lover.  Forgive this long preamble: I am thinking aloud and feeling my way, as it were. What
did you ask him to promise? Why, to make the most and best of himself. Why not let this sentence
suggest the social scheme of your life? Drop fellows who have neither brains nor heart,--no
good mettle in them,--and so far as you have influence strive to inspire the others to make
the most and best of themselves. You would not find the kitchen-maid a rival on this plan of
life; nor indeed, I regret to say, many of your natural associates. Outwardly your life will
appear much the same, but your motive will change everything, and flow through all your action
like a mountain spring, rendering it impossible for you to poison any life."

"O papa, the very possibility of what you suggest makes life appear beautiful. The idea of
a convent!"

"Convents are the final triumph of idiocy. If bad women could be shut up and made to say prayers
most of the time, no harm at least would be done,--the good, problematical; but to immure a
woman of sweet, natural, God-bestowed impulses is the devil's worst practical joke in this
world. Come, little girl, it's late. Think over the scheme; try it as you have a chance; use
your power to incite men to make the most and best of themselves. This is better than levying
your little tribute of flattery and attention, like other belles,--a phase of life as common
as cobble-stones and as old as vanity. For instance, you have an artist among your friends.
Possibly you can make him a better artist and a better fellow in every way. Drop all muffs
and sticks; don't waste yourself on them. Have considerable charity for some of the wild fellows,
none for their folly, and from the start tolerate no tendencies toward sentimentality. You
will find that the men who admire girls bent on making eyes rather than making men will soon
disappear. Sensible fellows won't misunderstand you, even though prompted to more than friendship;
and you will have a circle of friends of which any woman might be proud. Of course you will
find at times that unspoken negatives will not satisfy; but if a woman has tact, good sense,
and sincerity, her position is impregnable. As long as she is not inclined to love a man herself,
she can, by a mere glance, not only define her position, but defend it. By simple dignity and
reserve she can say to all, 'Thus far and no farther.' If, without encouragement, any one seeks
to break through this barrier he meets a quiet negative which he must respect, and in his heart
does respect. Now, little girl, to sum up your visit, with its long talks and their dramatic
and unexpected illustration, I see nothing to prevent you from going forward and making the
best and most of your life according to nature and truth. You have a good start, and a rather
better chance than falls to the lot of the majority."

"Truly," said Marian, thoughtfully, "we don't appear to grow old and change by time so much
as by what happens,--by what we think and feel. Everything appears changed, including you and
myself."

"It's more in appearance than in reality. You will find the impetus of your old life so strong
that it will be hard even to change the direction of the current. You will be much the same
outwardly, as I said before. The stream will flow through the same channel of characteristic
traits and habits. The vital change must be in the stream itself,--the motive from which life
springs."

How true her father's words seemed on the following evening after her return! Her mother, as
she sat down, to their dainty little dinner, looked as if her serenity had been undisturbed
by a single perplexing thought during the past few days. There was the same elegant, yet rather
youthful costume for a lady of her years; the same smiling face, not yet so full in its outline
as to have lost all its girlish beauty. It was marred by few evidences of care and trouble,
nor was it spiritualized by thought or deep experience.

Marian observed her closely, not with any disposition towards cold or conscious criticism,
but in order that she might better understand the conditions of her own life. She also had
a wakening curiosity to know just what her mother was to her father and he to her. The hope
was forming that she could make them more to each other. She had too much tact to believe that
this could be done by general exhortations. If anything was to be accomplished it must be by
methods so fine and unobtrusive as to be scarcely recognized.

Her father's inner life had been a revelation to her, and she was led to query: "Why does not
mamma understand it? CAN she understand it?" Therefore she listened attentively to the details
of what had happened in her absence. She waited in vain for any searching and intelligent questions
concerning the absent husband. Beyond that he was well, and that everything about the house
was just as she had left it, Mrs. Vosburgh appeared to have no interest. She was voluble over
little household affairs, the novel that just then absorbed her, and especially the callers
and their chagrin at finding the young girl absent.

"Only the millionnaire widower remained any length of time when learning that you were away,"
said the lady, "and he spent most of the evening with me. I assure you he is a very nice, entertaining
old fellow."

"How did he entertain you? What did he talk about?"

"Let me remember. Now I think of it, what didn't he talk about? He is one of the most agreeable
gossips I ever met,--knows everybody and everything. He has at his finger-ends the history
of all who were belles in my time, and" (complacently) "I find that few have done better than
I, while some, with all their opportunities, chose very crooked sticks."

"You are right, mamma. It seems to me that neither of us half appreciates papa. He works right
on so quietly and steadily, and yet he is not a machine, but a man."

"Oh, I appreciate him. Nine out of ten that he might have married would have made him no end
of trouble. I don't make him any. Well, after talking about the people we used to know, Mr.
Lanniere began a tirade against the times and the war, which he says have cost him a hundred
thousand dollars; but he took care in a quiet way to let me know that he has a good many hundred
thousands left. I declare, Marian, you might do a great deal worse."

"Do you not think I might do a great deal better?" the young girl asked, with a frown.

"I have no doubt you think so. Girls will be romantic. I was, myself; but as one goes on in
life one finds that a million, more or less, is a very comfortable fact. Mr. Lanniere has a
fine house in town, but he's a great traveller, and an habitue of the best hotels of this country
and Europe. You could see the world with him on its golden side."

"Well, mamma, I want a man,--not an habitue. What's more, I must be in love with the man, or
he won't stand the ghost of a chance. So you see the prospects are that you will have me on
your hands indefinitely. Mr. Lanniere, indeed! What should I be but a part of his possessions,--another
expensive luxury in his luxurious life? I want a man like papa,--earnest, large-brained, and
large-hearted,--who, instead of inveighing against the times, is absorbed in the vital questions
of the day, and is doing his part to solve them rightly. I would like to take Mr. Lanniere
into a military hospital or cemetery, and show him what the war has cost other men."

"Why, Marian, how you talk!"

"I wish I could make you know how I feel. It seems to me that one has only to think a little
and look around in order to feel deeply. I read of an awful battle while coming up in the cars.
We have been promised, all the spring, that Richmond would be taken, the war ended, and all
go on serenely again; but it doesn't look like it."

"What's the use of women distressing themselves with such things?" said Mrs. Vosburgh, irritably.
"I can't bear to think of war and its horrors, except as they give spice to a story. Our whole
trouble is a big political squabble, and you know I detest politics. It is just as Mr. Lanniere
says,--if our people had only let slavery alone all would have gone on veil. The leaders on
both sides will find out before the summer is over that they have gone too far and fast, and
they had better settle their differences with words rather than blows. We shall all be shaking
hands ana making up before Christmas."

"Papa doesn't think so."

"Your father is a German at heart. He has the sense to be practical about every-day affairs
and enjoy a good dinner, but he amuses himself with cloudy speculations and ideals and vast
questions about the welfare of the world, or the 'trend of the centuries,' as he said one day
to me. I always try to laugh him out of such vague nonsense. Has he been talking to you about
the 'trend of the centuries'?"

"No, mamma, he has not," replied Marian, gravely; "but if he does I shall try to understand
what he means and be interested. I know that papa feels deeply about the war, and means to
take the most effective part in it that he can, and that he does not think it will end so easily
as you believe. These facts make me feel anxious, for I know how resolute papa is."

"He has no right to take any risks," said the lady, emphatically.

"He surely has the same right that other men have."

"Oh, well," concluded Mrs. Vosburgh, with a shrug, "there is no use in borrowing trouble. When
it comes to acting, instead of dreaming and speculating on vast, misty questions, I can always
talk your father into good sense. That is the best thing about him,--he is well-balanced, in
spite of his tendency to theories. When I show him that a thing is quixotic he laughs, shrugs
his shoulders, and good-naturedly goes on in the even tenor of his way. It was the luckiest
thing in the world for him when he married me, for I soon learned his weak points, and have
ever guarded him against them. As a result he has had a quiet, prosperous career. If he wishes
to serve the government in some civilian capacity, and is well paid for it, why shouldn't he?
But I would never hear of his going to the front, fighting, and marching in Virginia mud and
swamps. If he ever breathes such a thought to you, I hope you will aid me in showing him how
cruel and preposterous it is."

Marian sighed, as she thought: "I now begin to see how well papa understands mamma, but has
she any gauge by which to measure him? I fear he has found his home lonely, in spite of good
dinners."

"Come, my dear," resumed Mrs. Vosburgh, "we are lingering too long. Some of your friends may
be calling soon, although I said I did not know whether you would be at home to-night or not.
Mr. Lanniere will be very likely to come, for I am satisfied that he has serious intentions.
What's more, you might do worse,--a great deal worse."

"Three times you have said that, mamma, and I don't like it," said Marian, a little indignantly.
"Of course I might do worse; I might kill him, and I should be tempted to if I married him.
You know that I do not care for him, and he knows it, too. Indeed, I scarcely respect him.
You don't realize what you are saying, for you would not have me act from purely mercenary
motives?"

"Oh, certainly not; but Mr. Lanniere is not a monster or a decrepit centenarian. He is still
in his prime, and is a very agreeable and accomplished man of the world. He is well-connected,
moves in the best society, and could give his wife everything."

"He couldn't give me happiness, and he would spoil my life."

"Oh well, if you feel so, there is nothing more to be said. I can tell you, though, that multitudes
of girls would be glad of your chance; but, like so many young people, you have romantic ideas,
and do not appreciate the fact that happiness results chiefly from the conditions of our lot,
and that we soon learn to have plenty of affection for those who make them all we could desire;"
and she touched a bell for the waitress, who had been temporarily dismissed.

The girl came in with a faint smile on her face. "Has she been listening?" thought Marian.
"That creature, then, with her vain, pretty, yet vulgar face, is the type of what I was. She
has been lighting the drawing-room for me to do what she proposes to do later in the evening.
She looks just the same. Mamma is just the same.  Callers will come just the same. How unchanged
all is, as papa said it would be! I fear much may be unchangeable."

She soon left the dining-room for the parlor, her dainty, merry little campaigning-ground.
What should be its future record? Could she carry out the scheme of life which her father had
suggested? "Well," she concluded, with an ominous flash in her eyes at her fair reflection
in the mirror, "whether I can incite any one to better things or not, I can at least do some
freezing out. That gossipy, selfish old Mr. Lanniere must take his million to some other market.
I have no room in my life for him. Neither do I dote on the future acquaintance of Mr. Strahan.
I shall put him on probation. If men don't want my society and regard on the new conditions,
they can stay away; if they persist in coming, they must do something finer and be something
finer than in the past. The friendship of one man like Fenton Lane is worth more than the attention
of a wilderness of muffs and sticks, as papa calls them. What I fear is that I shall appear
goody-goody, and that would disgust every one, including myself."

CHAPTER VII.

SURPRISES.

MR. Lanniere evidently had serious intentions, for he came unfashionably early. He fairly beamed
on the young girl when he found her at home. Indeed, as she stood before him in her radiant
youth, which her evening costume enhanced with a fine taste quickly recognized by his practised
eyes, he very justly regarded her as better than anything which his million had purchased hitherto.
It might easily be imagined that he had added a little to the couleur de rose of the future
by an extra glass of Burgundy, for he positively appeared to exude an atmosphere of affluence,
complacency, and gracious intention. The quick-witted girl detected at once his King-Cophetua
air, and she was more amused than embarrassed. Then the eager face of Fenton Lane arose in
her fancy, and she heard his words, "I would shoulder a musket and march away to-morrow if
you bade me!" How insignificant was all that this man could offer, as compared with the boundless,
self-sacrificing love of the other, before whom her heart bowed in sincere homage if nothing
more! What was this man's offer but an expression of selfishness? And what could she ever be
but an accessory of his Burgundy? Indeed, as his eyes, humid from wine, gloated upon her, and
he was phrasing his well-bred social platitudes and compliments, quite oblivious of the fact
that HER eyes were taking on the blue of a winter sky, her cheeks began to grow a little hot
with indignation and shame. He knew that she did not love him, that naturally she could not,
and that there had been nothing in their past relations to inspire even gratitude and respect
towards him. In truth, his only effort had been to show his preference and to indicate his
wishes. What then could his offer mean but the expectation that she would take him as a good
bargain, and, like any well-bred woman of the world, comply with all its conditions? Had she
given him the impression that she could do this? While the possibility made her self-reproachful,
she was conscious of rising resentment towards him who was so complacently assuming that she
was for sale.

"Indeed, Miss Vosburgh," was the conclusion of his rather long preliminaries, "you must not
run away soon again. June days may be charming under any circumstances, but your absence certainly
insures dull June evenings."

"You are burdening your conscience without deceiving me," the young girl replied, demurely,
"and should not so wrong yourself. Mamma said that you were very entertaining, and that last
evening was a delightful one. It could scarcely be otherwise. It is natural that people of
the same age should be congenial. I will call mamma at once."

"I beg you will not,--at least not just yet. I have something to say to which I trust you will
listen kindly and favorably. Do you think me so very old?"

"No older than you have a perfect right to be, Mr. Lanniere," said the girl, laughing. "I can
think of no reason for your reproachful tone."

"Let me give you one then. Your opinions are of immense importance to me."

"Truly, Mr. Lanniere, this is strange beyond measure, especially as I am too young to have
formed many opinions."

"That fact only increases my admiration and regard One must reach my years in order to appreciate
truly the dewy freshness of youth. The world is a terra incognita to you yet, and your opinions
of life are still to be formed. Let me give you a chance to see the world from lofty, sunny
elevations."

"I am too recently from my geography not to remember that while elevations may be sunny they
are very cold," was the reply, with a charming little shiver. "Mont Blanc has too much perspective."

"Do not jest with me or misunderstand me, Miss Vosburgh," he said, impressively. "There is
a happy mean in all things."

"Yes, Mr. Lanniere, and the girl who means to be happy should take care to discover it."

"May it not be discovered for her by one who is better acquainted with life? In woman's experience
is not happiness more often thrust upon her than achieved? I, who know the world and the rich
pleasures and triumphs it affords to one who, in the military phrase of the day, is well supported,
can offer you a great deal,--more than most men, I assure you."

"Why, Mr. Lanniere," said the young girl, looking at him with demure surprise, "I am perfectly
contented and happy. No ambition for triumphs is consuming me. What triumphs? As for pleasure,
each day brings all and more than I deserve. Young as one may be, one can scarcely act without
a motive."

"Then I am personally nothing to you?" he said stiffly, and rising.

"Pardon me, Mr. Lanniere. I hope my simple directness may not appear childish, but it seems
to me that I have met your suggestions with natural answers; What should you be to me but an
agreeable friend of mamma's?"

He understood her fence perfectly, and was aware that the absence of a mercenary spirit on
her part made his suit appear almost ridiculous. If her clear young eyes would not see him
through a golden halo, but only as a man and a possible mate, what could he be to her? Even
gold-fed egotism could not blind him to the truth that she was looking at HIM, and that the
thought of bartering herself for a little more of what she had to her heart's content already
was not even considered. There was distressing keenness in the suggestion that, not wanting
the extraneous things he offered, no motive was left. He was scarcely capable of suspecting
her indignation that he should deem her capable of sacrificing her fair young girlhood for
greater wealth and luxury, even had she coveted them,--an indignation enhanced by her new impulses.
The triumphs, happiness, and power which she now was bent on achieving could never be won under
the dense shade of his opulent selfishness. He embodied all that was inimical to her hopes
and plans, all that was opposed to the motives and inspiration received from her father, and
she looked at him with unamiable eyes.

While he saw this to some extent, he was unaccustomed to denial by others or by himself. She
was alluringly beautiful, as she stood before him,--all the more valued because she valued
herself so highly, all the more coveted because superior to the sordid motives upon which even
he had counted as the chief allies in his suit. In the intense longing of a self-indulgent
nature he broke out, seizing her hand as he spoke: "O Miss Marian, do not deny me. I know I
could make you happy. I would give you everything. Your slightest wish should be law. I would
be your slave."

"I do not wish a slave," she replied, freezingly, withdrawing her hand. "I am content, as I
told you; but were I compelled to make a choice it should be in favor of a man to whom I could
look up, and whom I could aid in manly work. I shall not make a choice until compelled to by
my heart."

"If your heart is still your own, give me a chance to win it," resumed the suitor, seeking
vainly to take her hand again. "I am in my prime, and can do more than most men. I will put
my wealth at your disposal, engage in noble charities, patriotic--"

This interview had been so absorbing as to make them oblivious of the fact that another visitor
had been admitted to the hall. Hearing voices in the drawing-room, Mr. Strahan entered, and
now stood just behind Mr. Lanniere, with an expression in which dismay, amusement, and embarrassment
were so comically blended that Marian, who first saw him, had to cover her face with her handkerchief
to hide her sense of the ludicrous.

"Pardon me," said the inopportune new-comer, "I--I--"

"Maledictions on you!" exclaimed the goaded millionnaire, now enraged beyond self-control,
and confronting the young fellow with glaring, bloodshot eyes.

This greeting put Strahan entirely at his ease, and a glimpse of Marian's mirth had its influence
also. She had turned instantly away, and gone to the farther side of the apartment.

"Come now, Mr. Lanniere," he said, with an assumption of much dignity; "there is scant courtesy
in your greeting, and without reason. I have the honor of Miss Vosburgh's acquaintance as truly
as yourself. This is her parlor, and she alone has the right to indicate that I am unwelcome.
I shall demand no apologies here and now, but I shall demand them. I may appear very young--"

"Yes, you do; very young. I should think that ears like yours might have--" And then the older
man paused, conscious that the violence of his anger was carrying him too far.

Strahan struck a nonchalant attitude, as he coolly remarked: "My venerable friend, your passion
is unbecoming to your years. Miss Vosburgh, I humbly ask your pardon that my ears were not
long enough to catch the purport of this interview. I am not in the habit of listening at a
lady's door before I enter. My arrival at a moment so awkward for me was my misfortune. I discovered
nothing to your discredit, Mr. Lanniere. Indeed, your appreciation of Miss Vosburgh is the
most creditable thing I know about you,--far more so than your insults because I merely entered
the door to which I was shown by the maid who admitted me. Miss Vosburgh, with your permission
I will now depart, in the hope that you will forgive the annoyance--"

"I cannot give you my permission under the circumstances, Mr. Strahan. You have committed no
offence against me, or Mr. Lanniere, either, as he will admit after a little thought. Let us
regard the whole matter as one of those awkward little affairs over which good breeding can
speedily triumph. Sit down, and I will call mamma."

"Pardon me, Miss Vosburgh," said Mr. Lanniere, in a choking voice, for he could not fail to
note the merriment which the mercurial Strahan strove in vain to suppress; "I will leave you
to more congenial society. I have paid you the highest compliment in my power, and have been
ill-requited."

As if stung, the young girl took a step towards him, and said, indignantly: "What was the nature
of your compliment? What have you asked but that I should sell myself for money? I may have
appeared to you a mere society girl, but I was never capable of that. Good-evening, sir."

Mr. Lanniere departed with tingling ears, and a dawning consciousness that he had over-rated
his million, and that he had made a fool of himself generally.

All trace of mirth passed from Strahan's expression, as he looked at the young girl's stern,
flushed face and the angry sheen of her eyes.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed, "that's magnificent. I've seen a girl now to whom I can take off my
hat, not as a mere form. Half the girls in our set would have given their eyes for the chance
of capturing such a man. Think what a vista of new bonnets he suggests!"

"You are probably mistaken. One girl has proved how she regarded the vista, and I don't believe
you had any better opinion of me than of the others. Come now, own up. Be honest. Didn't you
regard me as one of the girls 'in our set' as you phrase it, that would jump at the chance?"

"Oh, nonsense, Miss Marian. The idea--"

She checked him by a gesture. "I wish downright sincerity, and I shall detect the least false
note in your words."

Strahan looked into her resolute, earnest eyes a moment, and then revealed a new trait. He
discarded the slight affectation that characterized his manner, stood erect, and returned her
gaze steadily. "You ask for downright sincerity?" he said.

"Yes; I will take nothing less."

"You have no right to ask it unless you will be equally sincere with me."

"Oh, indeed; you are in a mood for bargains, as well as Mr. Lanniere."

"Not at all. You have stepped out of the role of the mere society girl. In that guise I shall
be all deference and compliments. On the basis of downright sincerity I have my rights, and
you have no right to compel me to give an honest opinion so personal in its nature without
giving one in return."

"I agree," she said, after a moment's thought.

"Well, then, while I was by no means sure, I thought it was possible, even probable, that you
would accept a man like Lanniere.  I have known society girls to do such things, haven't you?"

"And I tell you, Mr. Strahan, that you misjudge a great many society girls."

"Oh, you must tell me a great deal more than that. Have I not just discovered that I misjudged
one? Now pitch into Arthur Strahan."

"I am inclined to think that I have misjudged you, also; but I will keep my compact, and give
you the impression you made, and you won't like it."

"I don't expect to; but I shall expect downright sincerity."

"Very well. I'll test you. You are not simple and manly, even in your dress and manner; you
are an anomaly in the country; you are inclined to gossip; and it's my belief that a young
man should do more in life than amuse himself."

Strahan flushed, but burst out laughing as he exclaimed, "My photograph, by Jupiter!"

"Photographs give mere surface. Come, what's beneath it?"

"In one respect, at least, I think I am on a par with yourself. I have enough honest good-nature
to listen to the truth with thanks."

"Is that all?"

"Come, Miss Marian, what is the use of words when I have had such an example of deeds? I have
caught you, red-handed, in the act of giving a millionnaire his conge. In the face of this
stern fact do you suppose I am going to try to fish up some germs of manhood for your inspection?
As you have suggested, I must do something, or I'm out of the race with you. I honestly believe,
though, I am not such a fool as I have seemed. I shall always be something of a rattle-brain,
I suppose, and if I were dying I could not help seeing the comical side of things." He hesitated
a moment, and then asked, abruptly, "Miss Marian, have you read to-day's paper?"

"Yes, I have," with a tinge of sadness in her tone.

"Well, so have I. Think of thousands of fine young fellows lying stiff and stark in those accursed
swamps!"

"Yes," she cried, with a rush of tears, "I WILL think of them. I will try to see them, horrible
as the sight is, even in fancy. When they died so heroically, shame on me if I turn away in
weak, dainty disgust! Oh, the burning shame that Northern girls don't think more of such men
and their self-sacrifice!"

"You're a trump, Miss Marian; that's evident. Well, one little bit of gossip about myself,
and then I must go. I have another engagement this evening. Old Lanniere was right. I'm young,
and I've been very young. Of late I've made deliberate effort to remain a fool; but a man has
got to be a fool or a coward down to the very hard-pan of his soul if the logic of recent events
has no effect on him. I don't think I am exactly a coward, but the restraint of army-life,
and especially roughing it, is very distasteful. I kept thinking it would all soon be over,
that more men were in now than were needed, and that it was a confounded disagreeable business,
and all that. But my mind wasn't at rest; I wasn't satisfied with the ambitions of my callow
youth; and, as usual when one is in trouble and in doubt about a step, I exaggerated my old
folly to disguise my feelings. But this Richmond campaign, and the way Stonewall Jackson has
been whacking our fellows in the Shenandoah, made me feel that I was standing back too long,
and the battle described in to-day's paper brought me to a decision. I'm in for it, Miss Marian.
You may think I'm not worth the powder required to blow me up, but I'm going to Virginia as
soon as I can learn enough not to be more dangerous to those around me than to the enemy."

She darted to his side, and took his hand, exclaiming, "Mr. Strahan! forgive me; I've done
you a hundred-fold more injustice than you have me!"

He was visibly embarrassed, a thing unusual with him, and he said, brusquely: "Oh, come now,
don't let us have any pro patria exaltation. I don't resemble a hero any more than I do a doctor
of divinity. I'm just like lots of other young fellows who have gone, only I have been slower
in going, and my ardor won't set the river on fire. But the times are waking up all who have
any wake-up in them, and the exhibition of the latest English cut in coats and trousers is
taking on a rather inglorious aspect. How ridiculous it all seems in the light of the last
battle! Jove! but I HAVE been young!"

He did look young indeed, with his blond mustache and flushed face, that was almost as fair
as a girl's. She regarded him wonderingly, thinking how strangely events were applying the
touchstone to one and another. But the purpose of this boyish-appearing exquisite was the most
unexpected thing in the era of change that had begun. She could scarcely believe it, and exclaimed,
"You face a cannon?"

"I don't look like it, do I? I fancy I would. I should be too big a coward to run away, for
then I should have to come back to face you, which would be worse, you know. I'm not going
to do any bragging, however. Deeds, deeds. Not till I have laid out a Johnny, or he has laid
me out, can I take rank with you after your rout of the man of millions. I don't ask you to
believe in me yet."

"Well, I do believe in you. You are making an odd yet vivid impression on me. I believe you
will face danger just as you did Mr.  Lanniere, in a half-nonchalant and a half-satirical mood,
while all the time there will be an undercurrent of downright earnestness and heroism in you,
which you will hide as if you were ashamed of it."

He flushed with pleasure, but only laughed, "We'll see." Then after a moment he added, "Since
we are down to the bed-rock in our talk I'll say out the rest of my say, then follow Lanniere,
and give him something more to digest before he sleeps."

"Halt, sir--military jargon already--how can you continue your quarrel with Mr. Lanniere without
involving my name?"

Strahan looked blank for a second, then exclaimed: "Another evidence, of extreme youth! Lanniere
may go to thunder before I risk annoying you."

"Yes, thank you; please let him go to thunder. He won't talk of the affair, and so can do you
no harm."

"Supposing he could, that would be no excuse for annoying you."

"I think you punished him sufficiently before he went, and without ceasing to be a gentleman,
too. If you carry out your brave purpose you need not fear for your reputation."

"Well, Miss Marian, I shall carry it out. Society girl as I believed you to be, I like you
better than the others. Don't imagine I'm going to be sentimental. I should stand as good a
chance of winning a major-general's stars as you. I've seen better fellows raising the siege
and disappearing, you know. Well, the story I thought would be short is becoming long. I wanted
to tell you first what I proposed; for, hang it all! I've read it in your eyes that you thought
I was little better than a popinjay, and I wished to prove to you that I could be a man after
my fashion."

"I like your fashion, and am grateful for your confidence. What's more, you won't be able to
deceive me a bit hereafter. I shall persist in admiring you as a brave man, and shall stand
up for you through thick and thin."

"You always had a kind of loyalty to us fellows that we recognized and appreciated."

"I feel now as if I had not been very loyal to any one, not even myself. As with you, however,
I must let the future tell a different story."

"If I make good my words, will you be my friend?"

"Yes, yes indeed, and a proud one. But oh!"--she clasped her hand over her eyes,--"what is
all this tending to? When I think of the danger and suffering to which you may--"

"Oh, come now," he interrupted, laughing, but with a little suspicious moisture in eyes as
blue as her own; "it will be harder for you to stay and think of absent friends than for them
to go. I foresee how it will turn out. You will be imagining high tragedy on stormy nights
when we shall be having a jolly game of poker. Good-night. I shall be absent for a time,--going
to West Point to be coached a little by my friend Captain Varrum."

He drew himself up, saluted her a la militaire, right-about-faced with the stiffness of a ramrod,
and was departing, when a light hand touched his arm, and Marian said, with a look so kind
and sympathetic that his eyes fell before it: "Report to me occasionally, Captain Strahan.
There are my colors;" and she gave him a white rose from her belt.

His mouth quivered slightly, but with a rather faltering laugh he replied, as he put the rose
to his lips, "Never let the color suggest that I will show the white feather;" and then he
began his military career with a precipitate retreat.

CHAPTER VIII.

CHARMED BY A CRITIC.

"WHAT next?" was Marian's wondering query after Mr. Strahan's departure. The change of motive
which already had had no slight influence on her own action and feeling had apparently ushered
in a new era in her experience; but the sense of novelty in personal affairs was quite lost
as she contemplated the transformation in the mercurial Strahan, who had apparently been an
irredeemable fop. That the fastidious exquisite should tramp through Virginia mud, and face
a battery of hostile cannon, appeared to her the most marvellous of human paradoxes. An hour
before she would have declared the idea preposterous. Now she was certain he would do all that
he had said, and would do it in the manner satirical and deprecatory towards himself which
she had suggested.

Radical as the change seemed, she saw that it was a natural one as he had explained it. If
there was any manhood in him the times would evoke it. After all, his chief faults had been
youth and a nature keenly sensitive to certain social influences. Belonging to a wealthy and
fashionable clique in the city, he had early been impressed by the estimated importance of
dress and gossip. To excel in these, therefore, was to become pre-eminent. As time passed,
however, the truth, never learned by some, that his clique was not the world, began to dawn
on him. He was foolish, but not a fool; and when he saw young fellows no older than himself
going to the front, when he read of their achievements and sufferings, he drew comparisons.
The result was that he became more and more dissatisfied. He felt that he was anomalous, in
respect not only to the rural scenery of his summer home, but to the times, and the conviction
was growing that the only way to right himself was to follow the host of American youth who
had gone southward. It was a conviction to which he could not readily yield, and which he sought
to disguise by exaggerating his well-known characteristics. People of his temperament often
shrink from revealing their deeper feelings, believing that these would seem to others so incongruous
as to call forth incredulous smiles. Strahan was not a coward, except in the presence of ridicule.
This had more terrors for him than all the guns of the Confederacy; and he knew that every
one, from his own family down, would laugh at the thought of his going to the war. In a way
that puzzled him a little he felt that he would not care so much if Marian Vosburgh did not
laugh. The battle of which he had read to-day had at last decided him; he must go; but if Marian
would give him credit for a brave, manly impulse, and not think of him as a ludicrous spectacle
when he donned the uniform, he would march away with a light heart. He did not analyze her
influence over him, but only knew that she had a peculiar fascination which it was not in his
impressionable nature to resist.

Thus it may be seen that he only gave an example of the truth that great apparent changes are
the result of causes that have long been secretly active.

Marian, like many others, did not sufficiently take this fact into account, and was on the
qui vive for other remarkable manifestations. They did not occur. As her father had predicted,
life, in its outward conditions, resumed its normal aspects. Her mother laughed a little, sighed
a little, when she heard the story of Mr. Lanniere's final exit; the coquettish kitchen-maid
continued her career with undisturbed complacency; and Marian to her own surprise found that,
after the first days of her enthusiasm had passed, it required the exertion of no little will-power
to refrain from her old motives and tactics. But she was loyal to herself and to her implied
promise to her father. She knew that he was watching her,--that he had set his heart on the
development, in a natural way, of her best traits. She also knew that if she faltered she must
face his disappointment and her own contempt.

She had a horror, however, of putting on what she called "goody-goody airs," and under the
influence of this feeling acted much like her old self. Not one of her callers could have charged
her with manifesting a certain kind of misleading favor, but her little salon appeared as free
from restraint as ever, and her manner as genial and lively. It began to be observed by some,
however, that while she participated unhesitatingly in the light talk of others, she herself
would occasionally broach topics of more weight, especially such as related to the progress
of the war; and more than once she gave such direction to her conversation with the artist
as made his eyes kindle.

Her father was satisfied. He usually came home late on Saturday, and some of her gentleman
friends who were in the habit of dropping in of a Sunday evening, were soon taught that these
hours were engaged.

"You need not excuse yourself on my account," her father had said to her.

"But I shall," was her prompt response. "After all you have done and are doing for me, it's
a pity if I can't give you one evening in the week. You are looking after other people in New
York; I'm going to look after you; and you shall find that I am a sharp inquisitor. You must
reveal enough of the secrets of that mysterious office of yours to satisfy me that you are
not in danger."

He soon began to look forward with glad anticipation to his ramble by her side in the summer
twilight. He saw that what he had done and what he had thought during the week interested her
deeply, and to a girl of her intelligence he had plenty to tell that was far from commonplace.
She saw the great drama of her country's history unfolding, and not only witnessed the events
that were presented to the world, but was taken behind the scenes and shown many of the strange
and secret causes that were producing them. Moreover expectation of something larger and greater
was constantly raised. After their walk they would return to the house, and she would sing
or read to him until she saw his eyes heavy with the sleep that steals gradually and refreshingly
into a weary man's brain.

Mrs. Vosburgh observed this new companionship with but little surprise and no jealousy. "It
was time," she said, "that Marian should begin to do something for her father, and not leave
everything to me."

One thing puzzled Marian: weeks were passing and she neither saw nor heard anything of Lane
or Strahan. This fact, in view of what had been said at parting, troubled her. She was not
on calling terms with the latter's family, and therefore was unable to learn anything from
them. Even his male friends in the neighborhood did not know where he was or what he was doing.
Her father had taken the pains to inform himself that Lane was apparently at work in his law-office
as usual. These two incipient subjects of the power she hoped to wield seemed to have dropped
her utterly, and she was discouraged.

On the last day of June she was taking a ramble in a somewhat wild and secluded place not far
from her home, and thinking rather disconsolately that her father had overrated her influence,--that
after all she was but a pretty and ordinary girl, like millions of others,--a fact that Lane
and Strahan had at last discovered. Suddenly she came upon the artist, sketching at a short
distance from her. As she turned to retreat a twig snapped under her foot, revealing her presence.
He immediately arose and exclaimed, "Miss Vosburgh, is it I that you fear, or a glimpse of
my picture?"

"Neither, of course. I feared I might dispel an inspired mood. Why should I intrude, when you
have nature before you and the muse looking over your shoulder?"

"Over my left shoulder, then, with a mocking smile. You are mistaken if you fancy you can harm
any of my moods. Won't you stay and criticise my picture for me?"

"Why, Mr. Blauvelt, I'm not an art critic."

"Yes, you are,--one of the class I paint for. Our best critics are our patrons, cultivated people."

"I should never think of patronizing you."

"Perhaps you might entertain the thought of encouraging me a little, if you felt that I was
worth it."

"Now, Mr. Blauvelt, notwithstanding the rural surroundings, you must remember that I was bred
in the city. I know the sovereign contempt that you artists have for the opinions of the people.
When it comes to art, I'm only people."

"No such generalization will answer in your case. You have as distinct an individuality as
any flower blooming on this hillside."

"There are flowers and flowers. Some are quite common."

"None are commonplace to me, for there is a genuine bit of nature in every one. Still you are
right: I was conscious of the fragrance from this eglantine-bush here, until you came."

"Oh, then let me go at once."

"I beg that you will not. You are the eglantine in human form, and often quite as briery."

"Then you should prefer the bush there, which gives you its beauty and fragrance without a
scratch. But truly your comparison is too far-fetched, even for an artist or a poet, for I
suppose they are near of kin. To sensible, matter-of-fact girls, nothing is more absurd than
your idealization of us. See how quickly and honestly I can disenchant you. In the presence
of both nature and art I am conscious that it is nearly lunch-time. You are far from your boarding-place,
so come and take your luck with us. Mamma will be glad to see you, and after lunch I may be
a more amiable critic."

"As a critic, I do not wish you to be amiable, but honest severity itself. That you stumbled
upon me accidentally in your present mood is my good fortune. Tell me the faults in my picture
in the plainest English, and I will gratefully accept your invitation; for the hospitality
at your cottage is so genial that bread and cheese would be a banquet. I have a strong fancy
for seeing my work through your eyes, and so much faith in you that I know you will tell me
what you think, since I ask you to do so."

"Why have you faith in me?" she asked, with a quick, searching glance.

"I belong somewhat to the impressionist school, and my impression of you leads to my words."

"If you compel me to be honest, I must say I'm not capable of criticising your picture. I know
little of art, and nothing of its TECHNIQUE."

"Eyes like yours should be able to see a great deal, and, as I said, I am possessed by the
wish to know just what they do see. There is the scene I was sketching, and here the canvas.
Please, Miss Marian."

"It will be your own fault, now, if you don't like what I say," laughed the young girl, with
ready tact, for a quick glance or two had already satisfied her that the picture was not to
her taste. "My only remark is this, Mr. Blauvelt,--Nature does not make the same impression
on me that it does on you. There is the scene, as you say. How can I make you understand what
I feel? Nature always looks so natural to me! It awakens within me various emotions, but never
surprise,--I mean that kind of surprise one has when seeing a lady dressed in colors that do
not harmonize. To my eye, even in gaudy October, Nature appears to blend her effects so that
there is nothing startling or incongruous."

"Is there anything startling and incongruous in my picture?"

"I have not said that. You see you have brought me into perplexity, you have taken me beyond
my depth, by insisting on having my opinion. I have read a good many art criticisms first and
last. Art is gabbled about a good deal in society, you know, and we have to keep a set of phrases
on hand, whether we understand them or not.  But since you believe in impressions, and will
have mine, it is this as nearly as I can express it. You are under the influence of a school
or a fashion in art, and perhaps unconsciously you are controlled by this when looking at the
scene there. It seems to me that if I were an artist I should try to get on my canvas the same
effects that nature produces, and I would do it after my own fashion and not after some received
method just then prevailing. Let me illustrate what I mean by a phase of life that I know more
about.  There are some girls in society whose ambition it is to dress in the latest style.
They are so devoted to fashion that they appear to forget themselves, and are happy if their
costume reflects the mode of the hour, even though it makes them look hideous. My aim would
be to suggest the style rather unobtrusively, and clothe myself becomingly. I'm too egotistical
to be ultra-fashionable. Since I, who am in love chiefly with myself, can so modify style,
much more should you, who are devoted to nature, make fashion in art subservient to nature."

"You are right. I have worked too much in studios and not enough out of doors. Ever since I
have been sketching this summer, I have had a growing dissatisfaction, and a sense of being
trammelled. I do believe, as you say, that a certain received method or fashion of treatment
has been uppermost in my mind, and I have been trying to torture--nature into conformity. I'll
paint this thing all out and begin again."

"No, don't do that. Are not pictures like people a little? If I wanted to improve in some things,
it wouldn't do for me to be painted all out. Cannot changes for the better come by softening
features here and bringing out others there, by colorings a little more like those before us,
and--pardon me--by not leaving so much to the imagination? You artists can see more between
the lines than we people can."

"Let me try;" and with eager eyes he sat down before his easel again. "Now see if I succeed
a little," he added, after a moment.

His whole nature appeared kindled and animated by hope. He worked rapidly and boldly. His drawing
had been good before, and, as time passed, nature's sweet, true face began to smile upon him
from his canvas. Marian grew almost as absorbed as himself, learning by actual vision how quick,
light strokes can reproduce and preserve on a few square inches the transitory beauty of the
hour and the season.

At times she would stimulate his effort by half-spoken sentences of satisfaction, and at last
he turned and looked up suddenly at her flushed, interested face.

"You are the muse," he exclaimed, impetuously, "who, by looking over my shoulder, can make
an artist of me."

She instinctively stepped farther away, saying, decisively, "Be careful then to regard me as
a muse."

She had replied to his ardent glance and tone, even more than to his words. There was not a
trace of sentiment in her clear, direct gaze.  The quiet dignity and reserve of her manner
sobered him instantly.  Her presence, her words, the unexpected success in the new departure
which she had suggested, had excited him deeply; yet a moment's thought made it clear that
there had been nothing on her part to warrant the hope of more than friendly interest. This
interest might easily be lost by a few rash words, while there was slight reason that he should
ever hope for anything more. Then also came the consciousness of his straitened circumstances
and the absurdity of incurring obligations which he might never be able to meet. He had assured
himself a thousand times that art should be his mistress, yet here he was on the eve of acting
like a fool by making love to one who never disguised her expensive tastes. He was not an artist
of the olden school,--all romance and passion,--and the modishly dressed, reserved maiden before
him did not, in the remotest degree, suggest a languishing heroine in days of yore, certain
to love against sense and reason. The wild, sylvan shade, the June atmosphere, the fragrance
of the eglantine, even the presence of art, in whose potent traditions mood is the highest
law, could not dispel the nineteenth century or make this independent, clear-headed American
girl forget for a moment what was sensible and right. She stood there alone under the shadow
of the chestnuts, and by a glance defined her rights, her position towards her companion, and
made him respect them. Nor was he headlong, passionate, absurd. He was a part of his age, and
was familiar with New York society. The primal instincts of his nature had obtained ascendency
for a mordent.  Ardent words to the beautiful girl who looked over his shoulder and inspired
his touch seemed as natural as breath. She had made herself for the moment a part of his enthusiasm.
But what could be the sequel of ardent words, even if successful, but prosaic explanations
and the facing of the inexorable problem of supporting two on an income that scarcely sufficed
for the Bohemian life of one?

He had sufficient self-control, and was mentally agile enough to come down upon his feet. Rising,
he said, quietly: "If you will be my muse, as far as many other claims upon your time and thoughts
permit, I shall be very grateful. I have observed that you have a good eye for harmony in color,
and, what is best of all, I have induced you to be very frank. See how much you have helped
me. In brief--Bless me! how long have you been here?"

He pulled out his watch in comic dismay, and held it towards her. "No lunch for us to-day,"
he concluded, ruefully.

"Well," exclaimed Marian, laughing, "this is the first symptom I have ever had of being an
artist. It was quite natural that you should forget the needs of sublunary mortals, but that
I should do so must prove the existence of an undeveloped trait. I could become quite absorbed
in art if I could look on and see its wonders like a child. You must come home with me and
take your chance. If lunch is over, we'll forage."

He laughingly shouldered his apparatus, and walked by her side through the June sunshine and
shade, she in the main keeping up the conversation. At last he said, rather abruptly: "Miss
Vosburgh, you do not look on like a child,--rather, with more intelligence than very many society
girls possess; and--will you forgive me?--you defend yourself like a genuine American woman.
I have lived abroad, you know, and have learned how to value such women. I wish you to know
how much I respect you, how truly I appreciate you, and how grateful and honored I shall feel
if you will be simply a frank, kind friend. You made use of the expression 'How shall I make
you understand?' So I now use it, and suggest what I mean by a question,--Is there not something
in a man's nature which enables him to do better if some woman, in whom he believes, shows
that she cares?"

"I should be glad if this were true of some men," she said, gently, "because I do care. I'll
be frank, too. Nothing would give me a more delicious sense of power than to feel that in ways
I scarcely understood I was inciting my friends to make more of themselves than they would
if they did not know me. If I cannot do a little of what you suggest, of what account am I
to my friends?"

"Your friends can serve a useful purpose by amusing you."

"Then the reverse is true, and I am merely amusing to my friends. Is that the gist of your
fine words, after all?" and her face flushed as she asked the question.

"No, it is not true, Miss Vosburgh. You have the power of entertaining your friends abundantly,
but you could make me a better artist, and that with me would mean a better man, if you took
a genuine interest in my efforts."

"I shall test the truth of your words," was her smiling response. "Meanwhile you can teach
me to understand art better, so that I shall know what I am talking about." Then she changed
the subject.

CHAPTER IX.

A GIRL'S LIGHT HAND.

ON the evening of the 3d of July Marian drove down in her phaeton to the station for her father,
and was not a little surprised to see him advancing towards her with Mr. Lane. The young man
shook hands with her cordially, yet quietly, and there was something in his expression that
assured her of the groundlessness of all the fears she had entertained.

"I have asked Mr. Lane to dine with us," said her father. "He will walk over from the hotel
in the course of half an hour."

While the gentlemen had greeted her smilingly, there had been an expression on their faces
which suggested that their minds were not engrossed by anticipation of a holiday outing. Marian
knew well what it meant. The papers had brought to every home in the land the tidings of the
awful seven days' fighting before Richmond. So far from taking the city, McClellan had barely
saved his army. Thousands of men were dead in the swamps of the Chickahominy; thousands were
dying in the sultry heat of the South and on the malarial banks of the James.

Mr. Vosburgh's face was sad and stern in its expression, and when Marian asked, "Papa, is it
so bad as the papers say?" he replied: "God only knows how bad it is. For a large part of our
army it is as bad as it can be. The most terrible feature of it all to me is that thick-headed,
blundering men are holding in their irresolute hands the destinies of just such brave young
fellows as Mr. Lane here. It is not so dreadful for a man to die if his death furthers a cause
which he believes to be sacred, but to die from the sheer stupidity and weakness of his leaders
is a bitter thing. Instead of brave action, there is fatal blundering all along the line. For
a long time the President, sincere and true-hearted as he is, could not learn that he is not
a military man, and he has permitted a large part of our armies to be scattered all over Virginia.
They have accomplished next to nothing. McClellan long since proved that he would not advance
without men enough to walk over everything. He is as heavy as one of his own siege guns. He
may be sure, if he has all he wants, but is mortally slow, and hadn't brains enough to realize
that the Chickahominy swamps thinned his army faster than brave fighting. He should have been
given the idle, useless men under McDowell and others, and then ordered to take Richmond. If
he wouldn't move, then they should have put a man in his place who would, and not one who would
sit down and dig. At last he has received an impetus from Richmond, instead of Washington,
and he has moved at a lively pace, but to the rear. His men were as brave as men could be;
and if the courage shown on the retreat, or change of base, as some call it, had been manifested
in an advance, weeks ago, Richmond would have been ours. The 'change of base' has carried us
well away from the point attacked, brave men have suffered and died in vain, and the future
is so clouded that only one thing is certain."

"What is that, papa?" was the anxious query.

"We must never give up. We must realize that we are confronting some of the best soldiers and
generals the world has known. The North is only half awake to its danger and the magnitude
of its task. We have sent out comparatively few of our men to do a disagreeable duty for us,
while we take life comfortably and luxuriously as before. The truth will come home to us soon,
that we are engaged in a life-and-death struggle."

"Papa, these events will bring no changes to you? In your work, I mean?"

"Not at present. I truly believe, Marian, that I can serve my country more effectively in the
performance of the duties with which I am now charged. But who can tell what a day will bring
forth? Lane is going to the front. He will tell you all about it. He is a manly fellow, and
no doubt will explain why you have not heard from him."

"Real life has come in very truth," thought Marian, as she went to her room to prepare for
dinner; "but on every side it also brings the thought of death."

Her face was pale, and clouded with apprehension, when she joined the gentlemen; but Lane was
so genial and entertaining at dinner as to make it difficult for her to believe that he had
resolved on a step so fraught with risk. When at last they were alone in the drawing-room she
said, "Is it true that you intend to enter the army?"

"Yes, and it is time that it was true," was his smiling reply.

"I don't feel like laughing, Mr. Lane. Going to Virginia does not strike me as a pleasure excursion.
I have thought a great deal since I saw you last. You certainly have kept your promise to be
a distant and absent friend."

He looked at her eagerly, as he said, "You have thought a great deal--have you thought about me?"

"Certainly," she replied, with a slight flush; "I meant all that I said that evening."

That little emphasized word dispelled the hope that had for a moment asserted itself. Time
and a better acquaintance with her own heart had not brought any change of feeling to her,
and after a moment he said, quietly: "I think I can prove that I have been a sincere and loyal
friend as well as an absent one. Having never felt--well, you cannot know--it takes a little
time for a fellow to--pardon me; let all that go. I have tried to gain self-control, and I
have obeyed your request, to do nothing rash, literally. I remained steadily at work in my
office a certain number of hours every day. If the general hope that Richmond would be taken,
and the war practically ended, had proved well founded, for the sake of others I should have
resisted my inclination to take part in the struggle. I soon concluded, however, that it would
be just as well to prepare for what has taken place, and so gave part of my afternoons and
evenings to a little useful training. I am naturally very fond of a horse, and resolved that
if I went at all it should be as a cavalry-man, so I have been giving not a little of my time
to horseback exercise, sabre, pistol, and carbine practice, and shall not be quite so awkward
as some of the other raw recruits. I construed McClellan's retreat into an order for me to
advance, and have come to you as soon as I could to report progress."

"Why could you not have come before?--why could you not have told me?" she asked, a little
reproachfully.

"Some day perhaps you will know," he replied, turning away for a moment.

"I feared that maturer thought had convinced you that I could not be much of a friend,--that
I was only a gay young girl who wouldn't appreciate an earnest man's purposes."

"Miss Marian, you wrong me in thinking that I could so wrong you. Never for a moment have I
entertained such a thought. I can't explain to you all my experience. I wished to be more sure
of myself, to have something definite to tell you, that would prove me more worthy of your
friendship."

"My faith in you has never faltered a moment, Mr. Lane. While your words make me proud indeed,
they also make me very sad. I don't wonder that you feel as you do about going, and were I
a man I should probably take the same course. But I am learning at last what this war means.
I can't with a light heart see my friends go."

"Let it be with a brave heart, then. There are tears in your eyes, Miss Marian."

"Why should there not be? O Mr. Lane, I am not coldhearted and callous. I am not so silly and
shallow as I seemed."

"I never thought you so--"

By a gesture she stopped him, as she continued: "I recognized the expression on papa's face
and yours the moment I saw you, and I know what it means."

"Yes, Miss Marian; and I recognize the expression on your face. Were you a man you would have
gone before this."

"I think it would be easier to go than to stay and think of all one's friends must face."

"Of course it would be for one like you. You must not look on the dark side, however. You will
scarcely find a jollier set of men than our soldiers."

"I fear too many are reckless. This you have promised me not to be."

"I shall keep my promise; but a soldier must obey orders, you know. O Miss Marian, it makes
such a difference with me to know that you care so much! Knowing you as I do now, it would
seem like black treason to do or be anything unmanly."

Callers were now announced, and before an hour had passed there were half a dozen or more young
men in the drawing-room. Some were staying at the hotel, but the majority were from the villas
in the neighborhood, the holiday season permitting the return of those in business. However
dark and crimson might be the tide of thought that flowed through the minds of those present,
in memory of what had occurred during the last few days, the light of mirth played on the surface.
The times afforded themes for jest, rather than doleful predictions. Indeed, in accordance
with a principle in human nature, there was a tendency to disguise feelings and anxiety by
words so light as to border on recklessness. Questions as to future action were coming home
to all the young men, but not for the world would they permit one another, or especially a
spirited young girl, to suspect that they were awed, or made more serious even, by the thought
that the battle was drawing nearer to them. Lane was a leader in the gayety. His presence was
regarded by some with both surprise and surmise. It had been thought that he had disappeared
finally below Miss Vosburgh's horizon, but his animated face and manner gave no indication
of a rejected and despondent suitor.

The mirth was at its height when Strahan entered, dressed plainly in the uniform of a second
lieutenant. He was greeted with a shout of laughter by the young men, who knew him well, and
by a cordial pressure from Marian's hand. This made the gauntlet which he knew he must run
of little consequence to him. All except Lane drew up and gave him a military salute.

"Pretty fair for the awkward squad," he remarked, coolly.

"Come, report, report," cried several voices; "where have you been?"

"In Virginia."

"Why, of course, fellows, he's been arranging the change of base with McClellan, only the army
went south and he came north."

"I've been farther south than any of you."

"See here, Strahan, this uniform is rather new for a veteran's."

"Yes; never dealt in old clothes."

"Where's your command?"

"Here, if you'll all enlist. I think I could make soldiers of some of you."

"Why, fellows, what a chance for us! If Strahan can't teach us the etiquette of war, who can?"

"Yes, gentlemen; and I will give you the first rule in advance. Always face the music."

"Dance music, you mean. Strahan has been at West Point and knows that a fellow in civilian
togs stands no chance. How he eclipses us all to-night with the insignia of rank on his shoulders!
Where will you make headquarters?"

"At home, for the present."

"That's right. We knew you would hit upon the true theory of campaigning. Never was there a
better strategic point for your operations, Strahan, than the banks of the Hudson."

"I shall try to prove you right. A recruiting sergeant will join me in a day or two, and then
I can accommodate you all with muskets."

"All? Not Miss Marian?"

"Those possessing her rank and influence do not carry muskets."

"Come, fellows, let us celebrate the 4th by enlisting under Strahan," cried the chief spokesman,
who was not a very friendly neighbor of the young officer. "It won't be long before we shall
know all the gossip of the Confederacy."

"You will certainly have to approach near enough to receive some very direct news."

"Gentlemen," cried Marian, "a truce! Mr. Strahan has proved that he can face a hot fire, and
send back good shots, even when greatly outnumbered. I have such faith in him that I have already
given him my colors. You may take my word for it that he will render a good account of himself.
I am now eager to hear of his adventures."

"I haven't had any, Miss Marian. What I said about Virginia was mere bluff,--merely made an
excursion or two on the Virginia side of the Potomac, out of curiosity."

"But what does this uniform mean?"

"Merely what it suggests. I went to Washington, which is a great camp, you know. Through relatives
I had some influence there, and at last obtained a commission at the bottom of the ladder in
a new regiment that is to be recruited. Meanwhile I was put through the manual of arms, with
a lot of other awkward fellows, by a drill officer. I kept shady and told my people to be mum
until something came out of it all. Come, fellows, thirteen dollars a month, hard tack, and
glory! Don't all speak at once!"

"I'm with you as far as going is concerned," said Lane, shaking Strahan's hand warmly, "only
I've decided on the cavalry."

"Were I a man, you should have one recruit for your regiment to-night," said Marian. "You have
gone to work in a way that inspires confidence."

"I foresee, fellows, that we shall all have to go, or else Miss Marian will cross us out of
her books," remarked one of the young men.

"No, indeed," she replied. "I would not dare urge any one to go. But those who, like Mr. Lane
and Mr. Strahan, decide the question for themselves, cannot fail to carry my admiration with them."

"That's the loudest bugle call I expect to hear," remarked Mr. Blauvelt, who entered at that
moment.

"Here's the place to open your recruiting-office," added another, laughing. "If Miss Marian
would be free with her colors, she could raise a brigade."

"I can assure you beforehand that I shall not be free with them; much less will I hold them
out as an inducement. Slight as may be their value, they must be earned."

"What chivalrous deed has Strahan performed?" was asked, in chorus.

"One that I appreciate, and I don't give my faith lightly,"

"Mr. Strahan, I congratulate you," said Lane, with a swift and somewhat reproachful glance
at Marian; "you have already achieved your best laurels."

"I've received them, but not earned them yet. Miss Marian gives a fellow a good send-off, however,
and time will tell the story with us all. I must now bid you good-evening," he said to the
young girl. "I merely stopped for a few moments on my way from the train."

She followed him to the door, and said, sotto voce: "You held your own splendidly. Your first
report is more than satisfactory;" and he departed happier than any major-general in the service.

When the rest had gone, Lane, who had persistently lingered, began: "No doubt it will appear
absurd to you that a friend should be jealous. But Strahan seems to have won the chief honors."

"Perhaps he has deserved them, Mr. Lane. I know what your opinion of him was, and I think you
guessed mine. He has won the chief battle of life,--victory over himself. Ever since I have
known you, you have inspired my respect as a strong, resolute man. In resolving upon what you
would do instinctively Mr. Strahan has had such a struggle that he has touched my sympathies.
One cannot help feeling differently toward different friends, you know. Were I in trouble,
I should feel that I could lean upon you. To encourage and sustain would always be my first
impulse with Mr. Strahan. Are you content?"

"I should try to be, had I your colors also."

"Oh, I only gave him a rose. Do you want one?"

"Certainly."

"Well, now you are even," she said, laughing, and handing him one of those she wore.

He looked at it thoughtfully for a moment, and then said, quietly: "Some would despise this
kind of thing as the merest sentiment. With others it would influence the sternest action and
the supreme moments of life."

CHAPTER X.

WILLARD MERWYN.

DURING her drives Marian had often passed the entrance to one of the finest old places in the
vicinity, and, although aware that the family was absent in Europe, she had observed that the
fact made no difference in the scrupulous care of that portion of the grounds which was visible.
The vista from the road, however, was soon lost among the boles and branches of immense overshadowing
oaks. Even to the passer-by an impression of seclusion and exclusion was given, and Marian
at last noted that no reference was made to the family in the social exchanges of her little
drawing-room. The dwelling to which the rather stiff and stately entrance led was not visible
from the car-windows as she passed to and from the city, so abrupt was the intervening bluff,
but upon one occasion from the deck of a steamboat she had caught glimpses through the trees
of a large and substantial brick edifice.

Before Strahan had disappeared for a time, as we have related, her slight curiosity had so
far asserted itself that she had asked for information concerning the people who left their
beautiful home untenanted in June.

"I fancy I can tell you more about them than most people in this vicinity, but that is not
so very much. The place adjoins ours, and as a boy I fished and hunted with Willard Merwyn
a good deal. Mrs.  Merwyn is a widow and a Southern-bred woman. A Northern man of large wealth
married her, and then she took her revenge on the rest of the North by having as little to
do with it as possible. She was said to own a large property in the South,--plantation, negroes,
and all that. The place on the Hudson belonged to the Merwyn side of the house, and the family
have only spent a few summers here and have been exclusive and unpopular. My mother made their
acquaintance abroad, and they knew it would be absurd to put on airs with us; so the ladies
of the two families have exchanged more or less formal visits, but in the main they have little
to do with the society of this region. As boys Willard and myself did not care a fig for these
things, and became very good friends. I have not seen him for several years; they have all
been abroad; and I hear that he has become an awful swell."

"Why then, if he ever returns, you and he will be good friends again," Marian had laughingly
replied and had at once dismissed the exclusive Merwyns from her mind.

On the morning of the 4th of July Strahan had come over to have a quiet talk with Marian, and
had found Mr. Lane there before him. By feminine tactics peculiarly her own, Marian had given
them to understand that both were on much the same footing, and that their united presence
did not form "a crowd;" and the young men, having a common ground of purpose and motive, were
soon at ease together, and talked over personal and military matters with entire freedom, amusing
the young girl with accounts of their awkwardness in drill and of the scenes they had witnessed.
She was proud indeed of her two knights, as she mentally characterized them,--so different,
yet both now inspiring a genuine liking and respect. She saw that her honest goodwill and admiration
were evoking their best manhood and giving them as much happiness as she would ever have the
power to bestow, and she felt that her scheme of life was not a false one.  They understood
her fully, and knew that the time had passed forever when she would amuse herself at their
expense. She had become an inspiration of manly endeavor, and had ceased to be the object of
a lover's pursuit. If half-recognized hopes lurked in their hearts, the fulfilment of these
must be left to time.

"By the way," remarked Strahan, as he was taking his leave, "I hear that these long-absent
Merwyns have deigned to return to their native land,--for their own rather than their country's
good though, I fancy. I suppose Mrs. Merwyn feels that it is time she looked after her property
and maintained at least the semblance of loyalty.  I also hear that they have been hob-nobbing
with the English aristocracy, who look upon us Yankees as a 'blasted lot of cads, you know.'
Shall I bring young Merwyn over to see you after he arrives?"

"As you please," she replied, with an indifferent shrug.

Strahan had a half-formed scheme in his mind, but when he called upon young Merwyn he was at
first inclined to hesitate. Great as was his confidence in Marian, he had some vaguely jealous
fears, more for the young girl than for himself, in subjecting her to the influence of the
man that his boyhood's friend had become.

Willard Merwyn was a "swell" in Strahan's vernacular, but even in the early part of their interview
he gave the impression of being something more, or rather such a superior type of the "swell"
genus, that Marian's friend was conscious of a fear that the young girl might be dazzled and
interested, perhaps to her sorrow.

Merwyn had developed into a broad-shouldered man, nearly six feet in height. His quiet, courteous
elegance did not disguise from one who had known him so well in boyhood an imperious, self-pleasing
nature, and a tenacity of purpose in carrying out his own desires. He accepted of his quondam
friend's uniform without remark. That was Strahan's affair and not his, and by a polite reserve,
he made the mercurial fellow feel that his affairs were his own. Strahan chafed under this
polished reticence, this absence of all curiosity.

"Blast him!" thought the young officer, "he acts like a superior being, who has deigned to
visit America to look after his rents, and intimates that the country has no further concern
with him or he with it. Jove! I'd give all the pay I ever expect to get to see him a rejected
suitor of my plucky little American girl;" and he regarded his host with an ill-disposed eye.
At last he resolved to take the initiative boldly.

"How long do you expect to remain here, Merwyn?"

"I scarcely know. It depends somewhat on my mother's plans."

"Thunder! It's time you had plans of your own, especially when a man has your length of limb
and breadth of chest."

"I have not denied the possession of plans," Merwyn quietly remarked, his dark eye following
the curling, upward flight of smoke from his cigar.

"You certainly used to be decided enough sometimes, when I wanted you to pull an oar."

"And you so good-naturedly let me off," was the reply, with a slight laugh.

"I didn't let you off good-naturedly, nor do I intend to now. Good heavens, Merwyn! don't you
read the papers? There's a chance now to take an oar to some purpose. You were brave enough
as a boy."

Merwyn's eyes came down from the curling smoke to Strahan's face with a flash, and he rose
and paced the room for a moment, then said, in his old quiet tones, "They say the child is
father of the man."

"Oh well, Merwyn," was the slightly irritable rejoinder, "I have and ever had, you remember,
a way of expressing my thoughts. If, while abroad, you have become intolerant of that trait,
why, the sooner we understand each other the better. I don't profess to be anything more than
an American, and I called to-day with no other motive than the obvious and natural one."

A shade of annoyance passed over Merwyn's face, but as Strahan ceased he came forward and held
out his hand, saying: "I like you all the better for speaking your thoughts,--for doing just
as you please. You must be equally fair and yield to me the privilege of keeping my thoughts,
and doing as I please."

Strahan felt that there was nothing to do but to take the proffered hand, so irresistible was
the constraint of his host's courtesy, although felt to be without warmth or cordiality. Disguising
his inward protest by a light laugh he said: "I could shake hands with almost any one on such
a mutual understanding. Well, since we have begun on the basis of such absolute frankness on
my part, my next thought is, What shall be our relations while you are here? I am a busier
fellow than I was at one time, and my stay is also uncertain, and sure to be brief. I do not
wish to be unneighborly in remembrance of old times, nor do I wish to be obtrusive. In the
natural order of things, I should show you, a comparative stranger, some attention, inform
you about the natives and transient residents, help you amuse yourself, and all that. But I
have not the slightest desire to make unwelcome advances. I have plenty of such in prospect
south of Mason and Dixon's line."

Merwyn laughed with some heartiness as he said: "You have attained one attribute of a soldier
assuredly,--bluntness. Positively, Strahan, you have developed amazingly. Why, only the other
day we were boys squabbling to determine who should have the first shot at an owl we saw in
the mountains. The result was, the owl took flight.  You never gave in an inch to me then,
and I liked you all the better for it. Come now, be reasonable. I yield to you your full right
to be yourself; yield as much to me and let us begin where we left off, with only the differences
that years have made, and we shall get on as well as ever."

"Agreed," said Strahan, promptly. "Now what can I do for you? I have only certain hours at
my disposal."

"Well," replied Merwyn, languidly, "come and see me when you can, and I'll walk over to your
quarters--I suppose I should so call them--and have a smoke with you occasionally. I expect
to be awfully dull here, but between the river and the mountains I shall have resources."

"You propose to ignore society then?"

"Why say 'ignore'? That implies a conscious act. Let us suppose that society is as indifferent
to me as I to it."

"There's a little stutterer down at the hotel who claims to be an English lord."

"Bah, Strahan! I hope your sword is sharper than your satire. I've had enough of English lords
for the present."

"Yes, Merwyn, you appear to have had enough of most things,--perhaps too much. If your countrymen
are uninteresting, you may possibly wish to meet some of your countrywomen. I've been abroad
enough to know that you have never found their superiors."

"Well, that depends upon who my countrywoman is. I should prefer to see her before I intrude--"

"Risk being bored, you mean."

"As you please. Fie, Strahan! you are not cultivating a soldier's penchant for women?"

"It hasn't needed any cultivating. I have my opinion of a man who does not admire a fine woman."

"So have I, only each and all must define the adjective for themselves."

"It has been defined for me. Well, my time is up. We'll be two friendly neutral powers, and,
having marked out our positions, can maintain our frontiers with diplomatic ease. Good-morning."

Merwyn laughingly accompanied his guest to the door, but on the piazza, they met Mrs. Merwyn,
who involuntarily frowned as she saw Strahan's uniform, then with quiet elegance she greeted
the young man. But he had seen her expression, and was somewhat formal.

"We shall hope to see your mother and sisters before long," the lady remarked.

Strahan bowed, and walked with military erectness down the avenue, his host looking after him
with cynical and slightly contemptuous good-nature; but Mrs. Merwyn followed the receding figure
with an expression of great bitterness.

Her appearance was that of a remarkable woman. She was tall, and slight; every motion was marked
by grace, but it was the grace of a person accustomed to command. One would never dream of
woman's ministry when looking at her. Far more than would ever be true of Marian she suggested
power, but she would govern through her will, her pride and prejudices. The impress of early
influences had sunk deep into her character. The only child of a doting father, she had ruled
him, and, of course, the helpless slaves who had watched her moods and trembled at her passion.
There were scars on human backs to-day, which were the results of orders from her girlish lips.
She was not greatly to blame. Born of a proud and imperious ancestry, she had needed the lessons
of self-restraint and gentleness from infancy. Instead, she had been absolute, even in the
nursery; and as her horizon had widened it had revealed greater numbers to whom her will was
law. From childhood she had passed into maidenhood with a dower of wealth and beauty, learning
early, like Marian, that many of her own race were willing to become her slaves.

In the South there is a chivalric deference to women far exceeding that usually paid to the
sex at the North, and her appearance, temperament, and position evoked that element to the
utmost. He knows little of human nature who cannot guess the result. Yet, by a common contradiction,
the one among her many suitors who won such love as she could give was a Northern man as proud
as herself. He stood alone in his manner of approach, made himself the object of her thoughts
by piquing her pride, and met her varying moods by a quiet, unvarying dignity that compelled
her respect. The result was that she yielded to the first man who would not yield undue deference
to her.

Mr. Merwyn employed his power charily, however, or rather with principle. He quietly insisted
on his rights; but as he granted hers without a word, and never irritated her by small, fussy
exactions, good-breeding prevented any serious clashing of wills, and their married life had
passed in comparative serenity. As time elapsed her will began, in many ways, to defer to his
quieter and stronger will, and then, as if life must teach her that there is no true control
except self-control, Mr. Merwyn died, and left her mistress of almost everything except herself.

It must not be supposed, however, that her self-will was a passionate, moody absolutism. She
had outgrown that, and was too well-bred ever to show much temper. The tendency of her mature
purposes and prejudices was to crystallize into a few distinct forms. With the feminine logic
of a narrow mind, she made her husband an exception to the people among whom he had been born
and bred. Widowed, she gave her whole heart to the South. Its institutions, habits, and social
code were sacred, and all opponents thereof sacrilegious enemies. To that degree that they
were hostile, or even unbelieving, she hated them.

During the years immediately preceding the war she had been abroad superintending the education
of Willard and two younger daughters, and when hostilities began she was led to believe that
she could serve the cause better in England than on her remote plantation. In her fierce partisanship,
or rather perverted patriotism,--for in justice it must be said that she knew no other country
than the South,--she was willing to send her son to Richmond. He thwarted this purpose by quietly
manifesting one of his father's traits.

"No," he said, "I will not fight against the section to which my father belonged. To my mind
it's a wretched political squabble at best, and the politicians will settle it before long.
I have my life before me, and don't propose to be knocked on the head for the sake of a lot
of political John Smiths, North or South."

In vain she tried to fire his heart with dreams of Southern empire. He had made up that part
of himself derived from Northern birth--his mind--and would not yield. Meantime his Southern,
indolent, pleasure-loving side was appealed to powerfully by aristocratic life abroad, and
he felt it would be the sheerest folly to abandon his favorite pursuits. He was little more
then than a graceful animal, shrewd enough to know that his property was chiefly at the North,
and that it would be unwise to endanger it.

Mrs. Merwyn's self-interest and natural affection led her to yield to necessity with fairly
good grace. The course resolved upon by Willard preserved her son and the property. When the
South had accomplished its ambitious dreams she believed she would have skill enough to place
him high among its magnates, while, if he were killed in one of the intervening battles,--well,
she was loyal enough to incur the risk, but at heart she did not deeply regret that she had
escaped the probable sacrifice.

Thus time passed on, and she used her social influence in behalf of her section, but guardedly,
lest she should jeopardize the interests of her children. In May of the year in which our story
opened, the twenty-first birthday of Willard occurred, and was celebrated with befitting circumstance.
He took all this quietly, but on the morning of the day following he said to his mother:--

"You remember the provisions of my father's will. My share of the property was to be transferred
to me when I should become of age. We ought to return to New York at once and have the necessary
papers made out."

In vain she protested that the property was well managed, that the income was received regularly,
that he could have this, and that it would be intensely disagreeable for her to visit New York.
He, who had yielded indifferently to all her little exactions, was inexorable, and the proud,
self-willed woman found that he had so much law and reason on his side that she was compelled
to submit.

Indeed, she at last felt that she had been unduly governed by her prejudices, and that it might
be wise to go and see for themselves that their affairs were managed to the best advantage.
Deep in her heart was also the consciousness that it was her husband's indomitable will that
she was carrying out, and that she could never escape from that will in any exigency where
it could justly make itself felt. She therefore required of her son the promise that their
visit should be as unobtrusive as possible, and that he would return with her as soon as he
had arranged matters to his mind. To this he had readily agreed, and they were now in the land
for which the mother had only hate and the son indifference.

CHAPTER XI.

AN OATH AND A GLANCE.

As Strahan disappeared in the winding of the avenue a sudden and terrible thought occurred
to Mrs. Merwyn. She glanced at her son, who had walked to the farther end of the piazza, and
stood for a moment with his back towards her. His manly proportions made her realize, as she
had never done before, that he had attained his majority,--that he was his own master. He had
said he would not fight against the North, but, as far as the South was concerned, he had never
committed himself. And then his terrible will!

She went to her room and thought. He was in a land seething with excitement and patriotic fervor.
She knew not what influences a day might bring to bear upon him. Above all else she feared
taunts for lack of courage. She knew that her own passionate pride slept in his breast and
on a few occasions she had seen its manifestations. As a rule he was too healthful, too well
organized and indolent, to be easily irritated, while in serious matters he had not been crossed.
She knew enough of life to be aware that his manhood had never been awakened or even deeply
moved, and she was eager indeed to accomplish their mission in the States and return to conditions
of life not so electrical.

In the mean time she felt that she must use every precaution. She summoned a maid and asked
that her son should be sent to her.

The young man soon lounged in, and threw himself into an easy chair.

His mother looked at him fixedly for a moment, and then asked, "Why is young Strahan in THAT
uniform?"

"I didn't ask him," was the careless reply. "Obviously, however, because he has entered the
service in some capacity."

"Did he not suggest that it would be a very proper thing for you to do, also?"

"Oh, of course. He wouldn't be Strahan if he hadn't. He has a high appreciation of a 'little
brief authority,' especially if vested in himself. Believing himself to be so heroic he is
inclined to call others to account."

"I trust you have rated such vaporings at their worth."

"I have not rated them at all. What do I care for little Strahan or his opinions? Nil."

"Shall you see much of him while we are compelled to remain in this detestable land?"

"More of him than of any one else, probably. We were boys together, and he amuses me. What
is more to the point, if I make a Union officer my associate I disarm hostile criticism and
throw an additional safeguard around my property. There is no telling to what desperate straits
the Northern authorities may be reduced, and I don't propose to give them any grounds for confiscation."

"You are remarkably prudent, Willard, for a young man of Southern descent."

"I am of Northern descent also," he replied, with a light laugh. "Father was as strong a Northern
man--so I imagine--as you are a Southern woman, and so, by a natural law, I am neutral, brought
to a standstill by two equal and opposite forces."

The intense partisan looked at him with perplexity, and for a moment felt a strange and almost
superstitious belief in his words. Was there a reciprocal relation of forces which would render
her schemes futile? She shared in the secret hopes and ambitions of the Southern leaders. Had
Northern and Southern blood so neutralized the heart of this youth that he was indifferent
to both sections? and had she, by long residence abroad, and indulgence, made him so cosmopolitan
that he merely looked upon the world as "his oyster"? She was not the first parent who, having
failed to instil noble, natural principles in childhood, is surprised and troubled at the outcome
of a mind developing under influences unknown or unheeded. That the South would be triumphant
she never doubted a moment. It would not merely achieve independence, but also a power that
would grow like the vegetation of its genial climate, and extend until the tapering Isthmus
of Panama became the national boundary of the empire. But what part would be taken by this
strange son who seemed equally endowed with graceful indolence and indomitable will? Were his
tireless strength and energy to accomplish nothing better than the climbing of distant mountains?
and would he maintain indifference towards a struggle for a dominion beyond Oriental dreams?
Physically and mentally he seemed capable of doing what he chose; practically he chose to do
what he pleased from hour to hour. Amusing himself with a languid, good-natured disregard of
what he looked upon as trivial affairs, he was like adamant the moment a supreme and just advantage
was his. He was her husband over agaim, with strange differences. What could she do at the
present moment but the thing she proposed to do?

"Willard," she said, slowly, and in a voice that pierced his indifference, "have you any regard
for me?"

"Certainly. Have I shown any want of respect?"

"That is not the question at all. You are young, Willard, and you live in the future. I live
much in the past. My early home was in the South, where my family, for generations, has been
eminent. Is it strange, then, that I should love that sunny land?"

"No, mamma."

"Well, all I ask at present is that you will promise me never, under any motive, to take up
arms against that land of my ancestors."

"I have not the slightest disposition to do so."

"Willard, what to-day is, is. Neither you nor I know what shall be on the morrow. I never expected
to marry a Northern man, yet I did so; nor should I regret it if I consulted my heart only.
He was different from all his race. I did not foresee what was coming, or I could have torn
my heart out before involving myself in these Northern complications. I cannot change the past,
but I must provide for the future. O Willard, to your eyes your Northern fortune seems large.
But a few years will pass before you will be shown what a trifle it is compared with the prizes
of power and wealth that will be bestowed upon loyal Southerners. You have an ancestry, an
ability, that would naturally place you among the foremost. Terrible as would be the sacrifice
on my part, I could still give you my blessing if you imitated young Strahan in one respect,
and devoted yourself heart, soul, and sword to our cause."

"The probable result would be that you and my sisters would be penniless, I sleeping in mud,
and living on junk and hoe-cake. Another result, probable, only a little more remote, is that
the buzzards would pick my bones. Faugh! Oh, no. I've settled that question, and it's a bore
to think a question over twice. There are thousands of Americans in Europe. Their wisdom suits
me until this tea-pot tempest is over. If any one doubts my courage I'll prove it fast enough,
but, if I had my way, the politicians, North and South, should do their own fighting and starving."

"But, Willard, our leaders are not mere politicians. They are men of grand, far-reaching schemes,
and when their plans are accomplished, they will attain regal power and wealth."

"Visions, mamma, visions. I have enough of my father's blood in my veins to be able to look
at both sides of a question. Strahan asked me severely if I did not read the papers;" and he
laughed lightly.  "Well, I do read them, at least enough of them to pick out a few grains of
truth from all the chaff. The North and South have begun fighting like two bull-dogs, and it's
just a question which has the longer wind and the more endurance. The chances are all in favor
of the North. I shall not throw myself and property away for the sake of a bare possibility.
That's settled."

"Have you ice-water in your veins?" his mother asked, passionately.

"I have your blood, madam, and my father's, hence I am what I am."

"Well, then you must be a man of honor, of your word. Will you promise never to take arms against
the South?"

"I have told you I have no disposition to do so."

"The promise, then, can cost you little, and it will be a relief to my mind."

"Oh, well, mamma, if it will make you feel any easier, I promise with one exception. Both South
and North must keep their hands off the property my father gave me."

"If Southern leaders were dictating terms in New York City, as they will, ere long, they would
never touch your property."

"They had better not."

"You know what I mean, Willard. I ask you never to assume this hated Northern uniform, or put
your foot on Southern soil with a hostile purpose."

"Yes, I can promise that."

"Swear it to me then, by your mother's honor and your father's memory."

"Is not my word sufficient?"

"These things are sacred to me, and I wish them treated in a sacred manner. If you will do
this my mind will be at rest and I may be able to do more for you in the future."

"To satisfy you, I swear never to put on the Northern uniform or to enter the South with a
hostile purpose."

She stepped forward and touched his forehead with her lips, as she said: "The compact is sealed.
Your oath is registered on earth and in heaven. Your simple word as a man of honor will satisfy
me as to one other request. I wish you never to speak to any one of this solemn covenant between
us."

"I'm not in the habit of gossiping over family affairs," he replied, haughtily.

"I know that, and also that your delicacy of feeling would keep you from speaking of a matter
so sacred to me. But I am older and more experienced than you, and I shall feel safer if you
promise. You would not gossip about it, of course. You might refer to it to some friend or
to the woman who became your wife. I can foresee complications which might make it better that
it should be utterly unknown. You little know how I dream and plan for you, and I only ask
you never to speak of this interview and its character to a living soul."

"Certainly, mother, I can promise this. I should feel it small business to babble about anything
which you take so to heart. These visions of empire occupy your mind and do no harm. I only
hope you will meet your disappointment philosophically. Good-by now till lunch."

"Poor mamma!" thought the young man, as he started out for a walk; "she rails against Northern
fanatics, forgetting tnat it is just possible to be a little fanatical on the Southern side
of the line."

As he strode along in the sunshine his oath weighed upon him no more than if he had promised
not to go out in his sail-boat that day.

At last, after surmounting a rather steep hill, he threw himself on the grass under the shade
of a tree. "It's going to be awfully slow and stupid here," he muttered, "and it will be a
month or two before we can return. I hoped to be back in time to join the Montagues in climbing
Mont Blanc, and here I am tied up between these mole-hill mountains and city law-offices. How
shall I ever get through with the time?"

A pony-phaeton, containing two ladies, appeared at the foot of the hill and slowly approached.
His eyes rested on it in languid indifference, but, as it drew nearer, the younger of the two
ladies fixed his attention. Her charming summer costume at first satisfied his taste, and,
as her features became distinct, he was surprised at their beauty, as he thought at first;
but he soon felt that animation redeemed the face from mere prettiness. The young girl was
talking earnestly, but a sudden movement of the horse caused her to glance toward the road-side,
and she encountered the dark eyes of a stranger. Her words ceased instantly. A slight frown
contracted her brow, and, touching her horse with her whip, she passed on rapidly.

"By Jove! Strahan is right. If I have many such countrywomen in the neighborhood, I ought to
find amusement."

He rose and sauntered after the phaeton, and saw that it turned in at a pretty little cottage,
embowered in vines and trees. Making a mental note of the locality, he bent his steps in another
direction, laughing as he thought: "From that one glance I am sure that those blue eyes will
kindle more than one fellow before they are quenched. I wonder if Strahan knows her. Well,
here, perhaps, is a chance for a summer lark. If Strahan is enamored I'd like to cut him out,
for by all the fiends of dulness I must find something to do."

Strahan had accepted an invitation to lunch at the Vosburghs' that day, and arrived, hot and
flushed, from his second morning's drill.

"Well!" he exclaimed, "I've seen the great Mogul."

"I believe I have also," replied Marian. "Has he not short and slightly curly hair, dark eyes,
and an impudent stare?"

"I don't recognize the 'stare' exactly. Merwyn is polite enough in his way, and confound his
way! But the rest of your description tallies. Where did you see him?"

She explained.

"That was he, accomplishing his usual day's work. O ye dogs of war! how I would like to have
him in my squad one of these July days! Miss Marian, I'd wear your shoe-tie in my cap the rest
of my life, if you would humble that fellow and make him feel that he never spoke to a titled
lady abroad who had not her equal in some American girl. It just enrages me to see a New-York
man, no better born than myself, putting on such superior and indifferent airs. If he'd come
to me and say, 'Strahan, I'm a rebel, I'm going to fight and kill you if I can,' I'd shake
hands with him as I did not to-day. I'd treat him like a jolly, square fellow, until we came
face to face in a fair fight, and then--the fortune of war. As it was, I felt like taking him
by the collar and shaking him out of his languid grace.  He told me to mind my own business
so politely that I couldn't take offence, although he gave scarcely any other reason than that
he proposed to mind his. When I met his Southern mother on the piazza, she looked at me in
my uniform at first as if I had been a toad.  They are rebels at heart, and yet they stand
aloof and sneer at the North, from which they derive protection and revenue. I made his eyes
flash once though," chuckled the young fellow in conclusion.

Marian laughed heartily as she said: "Mr. Strahan, if you fight as well as you talk, I foresee
Southern reverses. You have no idea how your indignation becomes you. 'As well-born,' did you
say? Why, my good friend, you are worth a wilderness of such lackadaisical fellows. Ciphers
don't count unless they stand after a significant figure; neither do such men, unless stronger
men use them."

"Your arithmetic is at fault, Miss Marian. Ciphers do have the power of pushing a significant
figure way back to the right of the decimal point, and, as a practical fact, these elegant
human ciphers usually stand before good men and true in society. I don't believe it would be
so with you, but few of us would stand a chance with most girls should this rich American,
with his foreign airs and graces, enter the lists against us."

In her sincerity and earnestness, she took his hand and said: "I thank you for your tribute.
You are right. Though this person had the wealth of the Indies, and every external grace, he
could not be my friend unless he were a MAN. I've talked with papa a good deal, and believe
there are men in the Southern army just as honest and patriotic as you are; but no cold-blooded,
selfish betwixt-and-betweens shall ever take my hand."

"Make me a promise," cried Strahan, giving the hand he held a hearty and an approving shake.

"Well?"

"If opportunity offers, make this fellow bite the dust."

"We'll see about that. I may not think it worth the while, and I certainly shall not compromise
myself in the slightest degree."

"But if I bring him here you will be polite to him?"

"Just about as polite as he was to you, I imagine."

"Miss Marian, I wouldn't have any harm come to you for the wide world. If--if anything should
turn out amiss I'd shoot him, I certainly would."

The girl's only answer was a merry peal of laughter.

CHAPTER XII.

"A VOW."

BENT, as was Strahan, upon his scheme of disturbing Merwyn's pride and indifference, he resolved
to permit several days to pass before repeating his call. He also, as well as Marian, was unwilling
to compromise himself beyond a certain point, and it was his hope that he might receive a speedy
visit. He was not disappointed, for on the ensuing day Merwyn sauntered up the Strahan avenue,
and, learning that the young officer had gone to camp, followed him thither. The cold glance
from the fair stranger in the phaeton dwelt in his memory, and he was pleased to find that
it formed sufficient incentive to action.

Strahan saw him coming with a grim smile, but greeted him with off-hand cordiality. "Sorry,
Merwyn," he said, "I can give you only a few moments before I go on duty."

"You are not on duty evenings?"

"Yes, every other evening."

"How about to-night?"

"At your service."

"Are you acquainted with the people who reside at a cottage--" and he described Marian's abode.

"Yes."

"Who are they?"

"Mr. Vosburgh has rented the place as a summer residence for his family. His wife and daughter
are there usually, and he comes when he can.

"And the daughter's name?"

"Miss Marian Vosburgh."

"Will you introduce me to her?"

"Certainly."

"I sha'n't be poaching on your grounds, shall I?"

"Miss Vosburgh honors me with her friendship,--nothing more."

"Is it so great an honor?"

"I esteem it as such."

"Who are they, anyway?"

"Well, as a family I regard them as my equals, and Miss Marian as my superior."

"Oh come, Strahan, gossip about them a little."

The officer burst out laughing. "Well," he said, "for a man of your phenomenal reticence you
are asking a good many questions."

Merwyn colored slightly and blundered: "You know my motive, Strahan; one does not care to make
acquaintances that are not quite--" and then the expression of his host's eyes checked him.

"I assure you the Vosburghs are 'QUITE,'" Strahan said, coldly. "Did I not say they were my
equals? You may esteem yourself fortunate if Miss Vosburgh ever permits you to feel yourself
to be her equal."

"Why, how so?" a little irritably.

"Because if a man has brains and discernment the more he sees of her the more will he be inclined
to doubt his equality."

Merwyn smiled in a rather superior way, and, with a light laugh, said: "I understand, Strahan.
A man in your plight ought to feel in that way; at least, it is natural that he should. Now
see here, old fellow, I'll keep aloof if you say so."

"Why should you? You have seen few society queens abroad who received so much and so varied
homage as Miss Vosburgh. There are half a dozen fellows there, more or less, every evening,
and you can take your chances among them."

"Oh, she's a bit of a coquette, then?"

"You must discover for yourself what she is," said the young man, buckling on his sword. "She
has my entire respect."

"You quite pique my curiosity. I'll drive in for you this evening."

At the hour appointed, Strahan, in civilian's dress, stepped into Merwyn's carriage and was
driven rapidly to the cottage. Throwing the reins to a footman, the young fellow followed the
officer with a confidence not altogether well founded, as he soon learned. Many guests were
present, and Lane was among them. When Merwyn was presented Marian was observed to bow merely
and not give her hand, as was her custom when a friend of hers introduced a friend. Some of
the residents in the vicinity exchanged significant smiles when they saw that the fastidious
and exclusive Willard Merwyn had joined their circle. Mrs. Vosburgh, who was helping to entertain
the guests, recognized nothing in his presence beyond a new social triumph for her daughter,
and was very gracious. To her offices, as hostess, he found himself chiefly relegated for a time.

This suited him exactly, since it gave him a chance for observation; and certainly the little
drawing-room, with its refined freedom, was a revelation to him. Conversation, repartee, and
jest were unrestrained. While Lane was as gay as any present, Merwyn was made to feel that
he was no ordinary man, and it soon came out in the natural flow of talk that he, too, was
in the service. Merwyn was introduced also to a captain of the regular army, and, whatever
be might think of these people, he instinctively felt that they would no more permit themselves
to be patronized than would the sons of noble houses abroad. Indeed, he was much too adroit
to attempt anything of the kind, and, with well-bred ease, made himself at home among them
in general conversation.

Meanwhile, he watched Marian with increasing curiosity. To him she was a new and very interesting
type. He had seen no such vivacity and freedom abroad, and his experience led him to misunderstand
her.  "She is of the genus American girl, middle class," he thought, "who, by her beauty and
the unconventionality of her drawing-room, has become a quasi-belle. None of these men would
think of marrying her, unless it is little Strahan, and he wouldn't five years hence. Yet she
is piquant and fascinating after her style, a word and a jest for each and all, and spoken
with a sort of good-comradeship, rather than with an if-you-please-sir air. I must admit, however,
that there is nothing loud in tone, word, or manner. She is as delicate and refined as her
own beauty, and, although this rather florid mamma is present as chaperon, the scene and the
actors are peculiarly American. Well, I owe Strahan a good turn. I can amuse myself with this
girl without scruple."

At last he found an opportunity to say, "We have met once before, I believe, Miss Vosburgh."

"Met? Where?"

"Where I was inclined to go to sleep, and you gave me such a charming frown that I awakened
immediately and took a long ramble."

"I saw a person stretched at lazy length under the trees yesterday. You know the horror ladies
have of intoxicated men on the road-side."

"Was that the impression I made? Thanks."

"The impression made was that we had better pass as quickly as possible."

"You made a very different impression. Thanks to Strahan I am here this evening in consequence,
and am delighted that I came."

"'Delighted' is a strong word, Mr. Merwyn. Now that we are speaking of impressions, mine is
that years have elapsed since you were greatly delighted at anything."

"What gives you such an impression?"

"Women can never account for their intuitions."

"Women? Do not use such an elderly word in regard to one appearing as if just entering girlhood."

"O Mr. Merwyn! have you not learned abroad that girls of my age are elderly indeed compared
with men of yours?"

He bit his lip. "English girls are not so--"

"Fast?"

"I didn't say that. They certainly have not the vivacity and fascination that I am discovering
in your drawing-room."

"Why, Mr. Merwyn! one would think you had come to America on a voyage of discovery, and were
surprised at the first thing you saw."

"I think I could show you things abroad that would interest you."

"All Europe could not tempt me to go abroad at this time. In your estimation I am not even
a woman,--only a girl, and yet I have enough girlhood to wish to take my little part in the
events of the day."

He colored, but asked, quietly, "What part are you taking?"

"Such questions," she replied, with a merry, half-mocking flash of her eyes, "I answer by deeds.
There are those who know;" and then, being addressed by Mr. Lane, she turned away, leaving
him with confused, but more decided sensations than he had known for a long time.

His first impulse was to leave the house, but this course would only subject him to ridicule
on the part of those who remained. After a moment or two of reflection he remembered that she
had not invited him, and that she had said nothing essentially rude. He had merely chosen to
occupy a position in regard to his country that differed radically from hers, and she had done
little more than define her position.

"She is a Northern, as mamma is a Southern fanatic, with the difference that she is a young,
effervescing creature, bubbling over with the excitement of the times," he thought. "That fellow
in uniform, and the society of men like Strahan and Lane, haye turned her head, and she has
not seen enough of life to comprehend a man of the world. What do I care for her, or any here?
Her briery talk should only amuse me. When she learns more about who I am and what I possess
she will be inclined to imitate her discreet mamma and think of the main chance; meanwhile
I escape a summer's dulness and ennui;" and so he philosophically continued his observations
and chatted with Mrs. Vosburgh and others until, with Strahan, he took his departure, receiving
from Marian a bow merely, while to Strahan she gave her hand cordially.

"You seem to be decidedly in Miss Vosburgh's good graces," said Merwyn, as they drove away.

"I told you she was my friend."

"Is it very difficult to become her friend?"

"Well, that depends. You should not find it difficult, since you are so greatly my superior."

"Oh, come, Strahan."

"Pardon me, I forgot I was to express only my own thoughts, not yours."

"You don't know my thoughts or circumstances. Come now, let us be good comrades. I will begin
by thanking you cordially for introducing me to a charming young girl. I am sure I put on no
airs this evening."

"They would not have been politic, Merwyn, and, for the life of me, I can see no reason for them."

"Very well. Therefore you didn't see any. How like old times we are!  We were always together,
yet always sparring a little."

"You must take us as we are in these times," said Strahan, with a light laugh, for he felt
it would jeopardize his scheme, or hope rather, if he were too brusque with his companion.
"You see it is hard for us to understand your cosmopolitan indifference. American feeling just
now is rather tense on both sides of the line, and if you will recognize the fact you will
understand us better."

"I think I am already aware of the fact. If Miss Vosburgh were of our sex you would soon have
another recruit."

"I'd soon have a superior officer, you mean."

"I fancy you are rather under her thumb already."

"It's a difficult position to attain, I assure you."

"How so?"

"I have observed that, towards a good many, Miss Vosburgh is quite your equal in indifference."

"I like her all the better for that fact."

"So do I."

"How is it that you are so favored?"

"No doubt it seems strange to you. Mere caprice on her part, probably."

"You misunderstand me. I would like to learn your tactics."

"Jove! I'd like to teach you. Come down to-morrow and I'll give you a musket."

"You are incorrigible, Strahan. Do you mean that her good-will can be won only at the point
of the bayonet?"

"No one coached me. Surely you have not so neglected your education abroad that you do not
know how to win a lady's favor."

"You are a neutral, indeed."

"I wouldn't aid my own brother in a case of this kind."

"You are right; in matters of this kind it is every one for himself. You offered to show me,
a stranger, some attention, you know."

"Yes, Merwyn, and I'll keep my word. I will give you just as good courtesy as I receive. The
formalities have been complied with and you are acquainted with Miss Vosburgh. You have exactly
the same vantage that I had at the start, and you certainly cannot wish for more. If you wish
for further introductions, count on me."

Merwyn parted from his plain-spoken companion, well content. Strahan's promise to return all
the courtesy he received left a variable standard in Merwyn's hands that he could employ according
to circumstances or inclination. He was satisfied that his neighbor, in accordance with a trait
very common to young men, cherished for Miss Vosburgh a chivalric and sentimental regard at
which he would smile when he became older. Merwyn, however, had a certain sense of honor, and
would not have attempted deliberately to supplant one to whom he felt that he owed loyalty.
His mind having been relieved of all scruples of this character, he looked forward complacently
to the prospect of winning--what? He did not trouble himself to define the kind of regard he
hoped to inspire. The immediate purpose to kill time, that must intervene before he could return
to England, was sufficient. There was promise of occupation, mild excitement, and an amusing
triumph, in becoming the foremost figure in Marian's drawing-room.

There is scarcely need to dwell upon the events of a few subsequent weeks and the gradual changes
that were taking place. Life with its small vicissitudes rarely results from deliberate action.
Circumstances, from day to day, color and shape it; yet beneath the rippling, changing surface
a great tide may be rising. Strahan was succeeding fairly well in his recruiting service, and,
making allowances for his previous history, was proving an efficient officer. Marian was a
loyal, steadfast friend, reprimanding with mirthful seriousness at times, and speaking earnest
and encouraging words at others. After all, the mercurial young fellow daily won her increased
respect and esteem. He had been promoted to a captaincy, and such was the response of the loyal
North, during that dreary summer of disaster and confused counsels, that his company was nearly
full, and he was daily expecting orders for departure. His drill ground had become the occasional
morning resort of his friends, and each day gave evidence of improved soldierly bearing in his men.

Merwyn thus far had characteristically carried out his plans to "kill time." Thoroughly convinced
of his comparative superiority, he had been good-naturedly tolerant of the slow recognition
accorded to it by Marian. Yet he believed he was making progress, and the fact that her favor
was hard to win was only the more incitement. If she had shown early and decided preference
his occupation would have been gone; for what could he have done in those initiatory weeks
of their acquaintance if her eyes and tones had said, "I am ready to take you and your wealth"?
The attitude she maintained, although little understood, awakened a kind of respect, while
the barriers she quietly interposed aroused a keener desire to surmount them. By hauteur and
reserve at times he had made those with whom he associated feel that his position in regard
to the civil conflict was his own affair. Even Marian avoided the subject when talking with
him, and her mother never thought of mentioning it. Indeed, that thrifty lady would have been
rather too encouraging had not her daughter taken pains to check such a spirit. At the same
time the young girl made it emphatically understood that discussion of the events of the war
should be just as free when he was present as when he was absent.

Yet in a certain sense he was making progress, in that he awakened anger on her part, rather
than indifference. If she was a new type to him so was he to her, and she found her thoughts
reverting to him in hostile analysis of his motives and character. She had received too much
sincere homage and devotion not to detect something cynical and hollow in his earlier attentions.
She had seen glances toward her mother, and had caught in his tones an estimate which, however
true, incensed her greatly. Her old traits began to assert themselves, and gradually her will
accorded with Strahan's hope. If, without compromising herself, she could humble this man,
bringing him to her feet and dismissing him with a rather scornful refusal, such an exertion
of power would give her much satisfaction. Yet her pride, as well as her principle, led her
to determine that he should sue without having received any misleading favor on her part.

Merwyn had never proposed to sue at all, except in the way of conventional gallantry. For his
own amusement he had resolved to become her most intimate and familiar friend, and then it
would be time to go abroad. If false hopes were raised it would not much matter; Strahan or
some one else would console her. He admitted that his progress was slow, and her reserve hard
to combat. She would neither drive nor sail with him unless she formed one of a party.  Still
in this respect he was on the same footing with her best friends. One thing did trouble him,
however; she had never given him her hand, either in greeting or in parting.

At last he brought about an explanation that disturbed his equanimity not a little. He had
called in the morning, and she had chatted charmingly with him on impersonal matters, pleasing
him by her intelligent and gracefully spoken ideas on the topics broached. As a society girl
she met him on this neutral ground without the slightest restraint or embarrassment. As he
also talked well she had no scruple in enjoying a pleasure unsought by herself, especially
as it might lead to the punishment which she felt that he deserved. Smilingly she had assured
herself, when he was announced, "If he's a rebel at heart, as I've been told, I've met the
enemy before either Mr. Lane or Mr. Strahan."

When Merwyn rose to take his leave he held out his hand and said: "I shall be absent two or
three days. In saying good-by won't you shake hands?"

She laughingly put her hands behind her back and said, "I can't."

"Will not, you mean?"

"No, I cannot. I've made a vow to give my hand only to my own friends and those of my country."

"Do you look upon me as an enemy?"

"Oh, no, indeed."

"Then not as a friend?"

"Why, certainly not, Mr. Merwyn. You know that you are not my friend. What does the word mean?"

"Well," said he, flushing, "what does it mean?"

"Nothing more to me than to any other sincere person. One uses downright sincerity with a friend,
and would rather harm himself than that friend."

"Why is not this my attitude towards you?"

"You, naturally, should know better than I."

"Indeed, Miss Vosburgh, you little know the admiration you have excited," he said, gallantly.

An inscrutable smile was her only response.

"That, however, has become like the air you breathe, no doubt."

"Not at all. I prize admiration. What woman does not? But there are as many kinds of admiration
as there are donors."

"Am I to infer that mine is of a valueless nature?"

"Ask yourself, Mr. Merwyn, just what it is worth."

"It is greater than I have ever bestowed upon any one else," he said, hastily; for this tilt
was disturbing his self-possession.

Again she smiled, and her thought was, "Except yourself."

He, thinking her smile incredulous, resumed: "You doubt this?"

"I cannot help thinking that you are mistaken."

"How can I assure you that I am not?"

"I do not know. Why is it essential that I should be so assured?"

He felt that he was being worsted, and feared that she had detected the absence of unselfish
good-will and honest purpose toward her. He was angry with himself and her because of the dilemma
in which he was placed. Yet what could he say to the serene, smiling girl before him, whose
unflinching blue eyes looked into his with a keenness of insight that troubled him? His one
thought now was to achieve a retreat in which he could maintain the semblance of dignity and
good breeding.

With a light and deferential laugh he said: "I am taught, unmistakably, Miss Vosburgh, that
my regard, whatever it may be, is of little consequence to you, and that it would be folly
for me to try to prove a thing that would not interest you if demonstrated. I feel, however,
that one question is due to us both,--Is my society a disagreeable intrusion?"

"If it had been, Mr. Merwyn, you would have been aware of the fact before this. I have enjoyed
your conversation this morning."

"I hope, then, that in the future I can make a more favorable impression, and that in time
you will give me your hand."

Her blue eyes never left his face as he spoke, and they grew dark with a meaning that perplexed
and troubled him. She merely bowed gravely and turned away.

Never had his complacency been so disturbed. He walked homeward with steps that grew more and
more rapid, keeping pace with his swift, perturbed thoughts. As he approached his residence
he yielded to an impulse; leaped a wall, and struck out for the mountains.

CHAPTER XIII.

A SIEGE BEGUN.

"EITHER she is seeking to enhance her value, or else she is not the girl I imagined her to
be at all," was Willard Merwyn's conclusion as he sat on a crag high upon the mountain's side.
"Whichever supposition is true, I might as well admit at once that she is the most fascinating
woman I ever met. She IS a woman, as she claims to be. I've seen too many mere girls not to
detect their transparent deceits and motives at once. I don't understand Marian Vosburgh; I
only half believe in her, but I intend to learn whether there is a girl in her station who
would unhesitatingly decline the wealth and position that I can offer. Not that I have decided
to offer these as yet, by any means, for I am in a position to marry wealth and rank abroad;
but this girl piques my curiosity, stirs my blood, and is giving wings to time. At this rate
the hour of our departure may come before I am ready for it. I was mistaken in one respect
the first evening I met her. Lane, as well as Strahan and others, would marry her if they could.
She might make her choice from almost any of those who seek her society, and she is not the
pretty little Bohemian that I imagined. Either none of them has ever touched her heart, or
else she knows her value and vantage, and she means to make the most of them. If she knew the
wealth and position I could give her immediately, would not these certainties bring a different
expression into her eyes? I am not an ogre, that she should shrink from me as the only incumbrance."

Could he have seen the girl's passion after he left her he would have understood her dark look
at their parting. Hastily seeking her own room she locked the door to hide the tears of anger
and humiliation that would come.

"Well," she cried, "I AM punished for trifling with others. Here is a man who seeks me in my
home for no other purpose than his own amusement and the gratification of his curiosity. He
could not deny it when brought squarely to the issue. He could not look me in the eyes and
say that he was my honest friend. He would flirt with me, if he could, to beguile his burdensome
leisure; but when I defined what some are to me, and more would be, if permitted, he found
no better refuge than gallantry and evasion. What can he mean? what can he hope except to see
me in his power, and ready to accept any terms he may choose to offer? O Arthur Strahan! your
wish now is wholly mine. May I have the chance of rejecting this man as I never dismissed one
before!"

It must not be supposed that Willard's frequent visits to the Vosburgh cottage had escaped
Mrs. Merwyn's vigilant solicitude, but her son spoke of them in such a way that she obtained
the correct impression that he was only amusing himself. Her chief hope was that her son would
remain free until the South had obtained the power it sought. Then an alliance with one of
the leading families in the Confederacy would accomplish as much as might have resulted from
active service during the struggle. She had not hesitated to express this hope to him.

He had smiled, and said: "One of the leading theories of the day is the survival of the fittest.
I am content to limit my theory to a survival. If I am alive and well when your great Southern
empire takes the lead among nations there will be a chance for the fulfilment of your dream.
If I have disappeared beneath Southern mud there won't be any chance. In my opinion, however,
I should have tenfold greater power with our Southern friends if I introduced to them an English
heiress."

His mother had sighed and thought: "It is strange that this calculating boy should be my son.
His father was self-controlled and resolute, but he never manifested such cold-blooded thought
of self, first and always."

She did not remember that the one lesson taught him from his very cradle had been that of self-pleasing.
She had carried out her imperious will where it had clashed with his, and had weakly compensated
him by indulgence in the trifles that make up a child's life. SHE had never been controlled
or made to yield to others in thoughtful consideration of their rights and feelings, and did
not know how to instil the lesson; therefore--so inconsistent is human nature--when she saw
him developing her own traits, she was troubled because his ambitions differed from her own.
Had his hopes and desires coincided with hers he would have been a model youth in her eyes,
although never entertaining a thought beyond personal and family advantage. Apparently there
was a wider distinction between them, for she was capable of suffering and sacrifice for the
South. The possibilities of his nature were as yet unrevealed.

His course and spirit, however, set her at rest in regard to his visits to Marian Vosburgh,
and she felt that there was scarcely the slightest danger that he would compromise himself
by serious attentions to the daughter of an obscure American official.

Willard returned from his brief absence, and was surprised at his eager anticipation of another
interview with Marian. He called the morning after his arrival, and learning that she had just
gone to witness a drill of Strahan's company, he followed, and arrived almost as soon as she
did at the ground set apart for military evolutions.

He was greeted by Marian in her old manner, and by Strahan in his off-hand way. The young officer
was at her side, and a number of ladies and gentlemen were present as spectators. Merwyn took
a camp-stool, sat a little apart, and nonchalantly lighted a cigar.

Suddenly there was a loud commotion in the guard-house, accompanied by oaths and the sound
of a struggle. Then a wild figure, armed with a knife, rushed toward Strahan, followed by a
sergeant and two or three privates. At a glance it was seen to be the form of a tall, powerful
soldier, half-crazed with liquor.

"--you!" exclaimed the man; "you ordered me to be tied up. I'll larn you that we ain't down
in Virginny yet!" and there was reckless murder in his bloodshot eyes.

Although at that moment unarmed, Strahan, without a second's hesitation, sprung at the man's
throat and sought to catch his uplifted hand, but could not reach it. The probabilities are
that the young officer's military career would have been ended in another second, had not Merwyn,
without removing his cigar from his mouth, caught the uplifted arm and held it as in a vise.

"Stand back, Strahan," he said, quietly; but the young fellow would not loosen his hold. Therefore
Merwyn, with his left hand upon the collar of the soldier, jerked him a yard away, and tripped
him up so that he fell upon his face. Twisting the fellow's hands across his back, Merwyn said
to the sergeant, "Now tie him at your leisure."

This was done almost instantly, and the foul mouth was also stopped by a gag.

Merwyn returned to his camp-stool, and coolly removed the cigar from his mouth as he glanced
towards Marian. Although white and agitated, she was speaking eager, complimentary, and at
the same time soothing words to Strahan, who, in accordance with his excitable nature, was
in a violent passion. She did not once glance towards the man who had probably saved her friend's
life, but Strahan came and shook hands with him cordially, saying: "It was handsomely and bravely
done, Merwyn. I appreciate the service. You ought to be an officer, for you could make a good
one,--a better one than I am, for you are as cool as a cucumber."

Others, also, would have congratulated Merwyn had not his manner repelled them, and in a few
moments the drill began. Long before it was over Marian rose and went towards her phaeton.
In a moment Merwyn was by her side.

"You are not very well, Miss Vosburgh," he said. "Let me drive you home."

She bowed her acquiescence, and he saw that she was pale and a little faint; but by a visible
effort she soon rallied, and talked on indifferent subjects.

At last she said, abruptly: "I am learning what war means. It would seem that there is almost
as much danger in enforcing discipline on such horrible men as in facing the enemy."

"Of course," said Merwyn, carelessly. "That is part of the risk."

"Well," she continued, emphatically, "I never saw a braver act than that of Mr. Strahan. He
was unarmed."

"I was also!" was the somewhat bitter reply, "and you did not even thank me by a look for saving
your friend from a bad wound to say the least."

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Merwyn, you were armed with a strength which made your act perfectly
safe. Mr. Strahan risked everything."

"How could he help risking everything? The infuriated beast was coming towards you as well
as him. Could he have run away? You are not just to me, or at least you are very partial"

"One can scarcely help being partial towards one's friends. I agree with you, however; Mr.
Strahan could not have taken any other course. Could you, with a friend in such peril?"

"Certainly not, with any one in such peril. Let us say no more about the trifle."

She was silent a moment, and then said, impetuously: "You shall not misunderstand me. I don't
know whether I am unjust or not. I do know that I was angered, and cannot help it. You may
as well know my thoughts. Why should Mr. Strahan and others expose themselves to such risks
and hardships while you look idly on, when you so easily prove yourself able to take a man's
part in the struggle? You may think, if you do not say it, that it is no affair of mine; but
with my father, whom I love better than life, ready at any moment to give his life for a cause,
I cannot patiently see utter indifference to that cause in one who seeks my society."

"I think your feelings are very natural, Miss Vosburgh, nor do I resent your censure. You are
surrounded by influences that lead you to think as you do. You can scarcely judge for me, however.
Be fair and just. I yield to you fully--I may add, patiently--the right to think, feel, and
act as you think best. Grant equal rights to me."

"Oh, certainly," she said, a little coldly; "each one must choose his own course for life."

"That must ever be true," he replied, "and it is well to remember that it is for life. The
present condition of affairs is temporary. It is the hour of excited impulses rather than of
cool judgment. Ambitious men on both sides are furthering their own purposes at the cost of
others."

"Is that your idea of the war, Mr. Merwyn?" she asked, looking searchingly into his face.

"It is indeed, and time will prove me right, you will discover."

"Since this is your view, I can scarcely wonder at your course," she said, so quietly that
he misunderstood her, and felt that she half conceded its reasonableness. Then she changed
the subject, nor did she revert to it in his society.

As August drew to its close, Marian's circle shared the feverish solicitude felt in General
Pope's Virginia campaign. Throughout the North there was a loyal response to the appeal for
men, and Strahan's company was nearly full. He expected at any hour the orders which would
unite the regiment at Washington.

One morning Mr. Lane came to say good-by. It was an impressive hour which he spent with Marian
when bidding her perhaps a final farewell. She was pale, and her attempts at mirthfulness were
forced and feeble. When he rose to take his leave she suddenly covered her face with her hand,
and burst into tears.

"Marian!" he exclaimed, eagerly, for the deep affection in his heart would assert itself at
times, and now her emotion seemed to warrant hope.

"Wait," she faltered. "Do not go just yet."

He took her unresisting hand and kissed it, while she stifled her sobs.

"Miss Marian," he began, "you know how wholly I am yours--"

"Please do not misunderstand me," she interrupted. "I scarcely know how I could feel differently
if I were parting with my twin brother.  You have been such a true, generous friend! Oh, I
am all unstrung.  Papa has been sent for from Washington, and we don't know when he'll return
or what service may be required of him. I only know that he is like you, and will take any
risk that duty seems to demand. I have so learned to lean upon you and trust you that if anything
happened--well, I felt that I could go to you as a brother. You are too generous to blame me
that I cannot feel in any other way. See, I am frank with you. Why should I not be when the
future is so uncertain? Is it a little thing that I should think of you first and feel that
I shall miss you most when I am so distraught with anxiety?"

"No, Miss Marian. To me it is a sacred thing. I want you to know that you have a brother's
hand and heart at your disposal."

"I believe you. Come," she added, rising and dashing away her tears, "I must be brave, as you
are. Promise me that you will take no risks beyond those required by duty, and that you will
write to me."

"Marian," he said, in a low, deep voice, "I shall ever try to do what, in your heart, you would
wish. You must also promise that if you are ever in trouble you will let me know."

"I promise."

He again kissed her hand, like a knight of the olden time.

At the last turn of the road from which he was visible she waved her handkerchief, then sought
her room and burst into a passion of tears.

"Oh," she sobbed, "as I now feel I could not refuse him anything. I may never see him again,
and he has been so kind and generous!"

The poor girl was indeed morbid from excitement and anxiety. Her pale face began to give evidence
of the strain which the times imposed on her in common with all those whose hearts had much
at stake in the conflict.

In vain her mother remonstrated with her, and told her that she was "meeting trouble half-way."
Once the sagacious lady had ventured to suggest that much uncertainty might be taken out of
the future by giving more encouragement to Mr. Merwyn. "I am told that he is almost a millionnaire
in his own right," she said.

"What is he in his own heart and soul?" had been the girl's indignant answer. "Don't speak
to me in that way again, mamma."

Meanwhile Merwyn was a close observer of all that was taking place, and was coming to what
he regarded as an heroic resolution. Except as circumstances evoked an outburst of passion,
he yielded to habit, and coolly kept his eye on the main chances of his life, and these meant
what he craved most.

Two influences had been at work upon his mind during the summer. One resulted from his independent
possession of large property. He had readily comprehended the hints thrown out by his lawyer
that, if he remained in New York, the times gave opportunity for a rapid increase in his property,
and the thought of achieving large wealth for himself, as his father had done before him, was
growing in attractiveness. His indolent nature began to respond to vital American life, and
he asked himself whether fortune-making in his own land did not promise more than fortune-seeking
among English heiresses; moreover, he saw that his mother's devotion to the South increased
daily, and that feeling at the North was running higher and becoming more and more sharply
defined. As a business man in New York his property would be safe beyond a doubt, but if he
were absent and affiliating with those known to be hostile to the North, dangerous complications
might arise.

Almost unconsciously to himself at first the second influence was gaining daily in power. As
he became convinced that Marian was not an ordinary girl, ready for a summer flirtation with
a wealthy stranger, he began to give her more serious thought, to study her character, and
acknowledge to himself her superiority. With every interview the spell of her fascination grew
stronger, until at last he reached the conclusion which he regarded as magnanimous indeed.
Waiving all questions of rank and wealth on his part he would become a downright suitor to
this fair countrywoman. It did not occur to him that he had arrived at his benign mood by asking
himself the question, "Why should I not please myself?" and by the oft-recurring thought: "If
I marry rank and wealth abroad the lady may eventually remind me of her condescension. If I
win great wealth here and lift this girl to my position she will ever be devoted and subservient
and I be my own master. I prefer to marry a girl that pleases me in her own personality, one
who has brains as well as beauty. When these military enthusiasts have disappeared below the
Southern horizon, and time hangs more heavily on her hands, she will find leisure and thought
for me. What is more, the very uncertainties of her position, with the advice of her prudent
mamma, will incline her to the ample provision for the future which I can furnish."

Thus did Willard Merwyn misunderstand the girl he sought, so strong are inherited and perverted
traits and lifelong mental habits. He knew how easily, with his birth and wealth, he could
arrange a match abroad with the high contracting powers. Mrs. Vosburgh had impressed him as
the chief potentate of her family, and not at all averse to his purpose. He had seen Mr. Vosburgh
but once, and the quiet, reticent man had appeared to be a second-rate power. He had also learned
that the property of the family was chiefly vested in the wife. Of course, if Mr. Vosburgh
had been in the city, Merwyn would have addressed him first, but he was absent and the time
of his return unknown.

The son knew his mother would be furious, but he had already discounted that opposition. He
regarded this Southern-born lady as a very unsafe guide in these troublous times. Indeed, he
cherished a practical kind of loyalty to her and his sisters.

"Only as I keep my head level," he said to himself, "are they safe. Mamma would identify herself
with the South to-day if she could, and with a woman's lack of foresight be helpless on the
morrow. Let her dream her dreams and nurse her prejudices. I am my father's son, and the responsible
head of the family; and I part with no solid advantage until I receive a better one. I shall
establish mamma and the girls comfortably in England, and then return to a city where I can
soon double my wealth and live a life independent of every one."

This prospect grew to be so attractive that he indulged, like Mr. Lanniere, in King Cophetua's
mood, and felt that one American girl was about to become distinguished indeed.

Watching his opportunity he called upon Mrs. Vosburgh while Marian was out of the way, formally
asking her, in her husband's absence, for permission to pay his addresses; and he made known
his financial resources and prospects with not a little complacent detail.

Mrs. Vosburgh was dignified and gracious, enlarged on her daughter's worth, hinted that she
might be a little difficult to win by reason of the attentions she had received and her peculiar
views, yet left, finally, the impression that so flattering proposals could not be slighted.

Merwyn went home with a sigh of relief. He would no longer approach Marian with doubtful and
ill-defined intentions, which he believed chiefly accounted for the clever girl's coldness
towards him.

CHAPTER XIV.

OMINOUS.

SUBORDINATE only to her father and two chief friends, in Marian's thoughts, was her enemy,
for as such she now regarded Willard Merwyn. She had felt his attentions to be humiliating
from the first. They had presented her former life, in which her own amusement and pleasure
had been her chief thought, in another and a very disagreeable light. These facts alone would
have been sufficient to awaken a vindictive feeling, for she was no saint. In addition, she
bitterly resented his indifference to a cause made so dear by her father's devotion and her
friends' brave self-sacrifice.  Whatever his motive might be, she felt that he was cold-blooded,
cowardly, or disloyal, and such courtesy as she showed him was due to little else than the
hope of inflicting upon him some degree of humiliation. She had seen too many manifestations
of honest interest and ardent love to credit him with any such emotion, and she had no scruples
in wounding his pride to the utmost.

Meanwhile events in the bloody drama of the war were culminating. The Union officers were thought
to have neither the wisdom to fight at the right time nor the discretion to retreat when fighting
was worse than useless. In consequence thousands of brave men were believed by many to have
died in vain once more on the ill-fated field of Bull Run.

One morning, the last of August, Strahan galloped to the Vosburgh cottage and said to Marian,
who met him at the door: "Orders have come. I have but a few minutes in which to say good-by.
Things have gone wrong in Virginia, and every available man is wanted in Washington."

His flushed face was almost as fair as her own, and gave him a boyish aspect in spite of his
military dress, but unhesitating resolution and courage beamed from his eyes.

"Oh, that I were a man!" Marian cried, "and you would have company. All those who are most
to me will soon be perilling their lives."

"Guess who has decided to go with me almost at the last moment."

"Mr. Blauvelt?"

"Yes; I told him that he was too high-toned to carry a musket, but he said he would rather
go as a private than as an officer. He wishes no responsibility, he says, and, beyond mere
routine duty, intends to give all his time and thoughts to art. I am satisfied that I have
you to thank for this recruit."

"Indeed, I have never asked him to take part in the war."

"No need of your asking any one in set terms. A man would have to be either a coward, or else
a rebel at heart, like Merwyn, to resist your influence. Indeed, I think it is all the stronger
because you do not use it openly and carelessly. Every one who comes here knows that your heart
is in the cause, and that you would have been almost a veteran by this time were you of our
sex. Others, besides Blauvelt, obtained the impulse in your presence which decided them. Indeed,
your drawing-room has been greatly thinned, and it almost looks as if few would be left to
haunt it except Merwyn."

"I do not think he will haunt it much longer, and I should prefer solitude to his society."

"Well," laughed Strahan, "I think you will have a chance to put one rebel to rout before I
do. I don't blame you, remembering your feeling, but Merwyn probably saved my life, and I gave
him my hand in a final truce. Friends we cannot be while he maintains his present cold reserve.
As you told me, he said he would have done as much for any one, and his manner since has chilled
any grateful regard on my part. Yet I am under deep obligations, and hereafter will never do
or say anything to his injury."

"Don't trouble yourself about Mr. Merwyn, Arthur. I have my own personal score to settle with
him. He has made a good foil for you and my other friends, and I have learned to appreciate
you the more.  YOU have won my entire esteem and respect, and have taught me how quickly a
noble, self-sacrificing purpose can develop manhood. O Arthur, Heaven grant that we may all
meet again! How proud I shall then be of my veteran friends! and of you most of all. You are
triumphing over yourself, and you have won the respect of every one in this community."

"If I ever become anything, or do anything, just enter half the credit in your little note-book,"
he said, flushing with pleasure.

"I shall not need a note-book to keep in mind anything that relates to you. Your courage has
made me a braver, truer girl. Arthur, please, you won't get reckless in camp? I want to think
of you always as I think of you now. When time hangs heavy on your hands, would it give you
any satisfaction to write to me?"

"Indeed it will," cried the young officer. "Let me make a suggestion. I will keep a rough journal
of what occurs and of the scenes we pass through, and Blauvelt will illustrate it. How should
you like that? It will do us both good, and will be the next best thing to running in of an
evening as we have done here."

Marian was more than pleased with the idea. When at last Strahan said farewell, he went away
with every manly impulse strengthened, and his heart warmed by the evidences of her genuine regard.

In the afternoon Blauvelt called, and, with Marian and her mother, drove to the station to
take part in an ovation to Captain Strahan and his company. The artist had affairs to arrange
in the city before enlisting, and proposed to enter the service at Washington.

The young officer bore up bravely, but when he left his mother and sisters in tears, his face
was stern with effort. Marian observed, however, that his last glance from the platform of
the cars rested upon herself. She returned home depressed and nervously excited, and there
found additional cause for solicitude in a letter from her father informing her of the great
disaster to Union arms which poor generalship had invited. This, as she then felt, would have
been bad enough, but in a few tender, closing words, he told her that they might not hear from
him in some time, as he had been ordered on a service that required secrecy and involved some
danger. Mrs. Vosburgh was profuse in her lamentations and protests against her husband's course,
but Marian went to her room and sobbed until almost exhausted.

Her nature, however, was too strong, positive, and unchastened to find relief in tears, or
to submit resignedly. Her heart was full of bitterness and revolt, and her partisanship was
becoming almost as intense as that of Mrs. Merwyn.

The afternoon closed with a dismal rain-storm, which added to her depression, while relieving
her from the fear of callers. "O dear!" she exclaimed, as she rose from the mere form of supper,
"I have both head-ache and heart-ache. I am going to try to get through the rest of this dismal
day in sleep."

"Marian, do, at least, sit an hour or two with me. Some one may come and divert your thoughts."

"No one can divert me to-night. It seems as if an age had passed since we came here in June."

"Your father knows how alone we are in the world, with no near relatives to call upon. I think
he owes his first duty to us."

"The men of the North, who are right, should be as ready to sacrifice everything as the men
of the South, who are wrong; and so also should Northern women. I am proud of the fact that
my father is employed and trusted by his government. The wrong rests with those who caused
the war."

"Every man can't go and should not go. The business of the country must be carried on just
the same, and rich business men are as important as soldiers. I only wish that, in our loneliness
and with the future so full of uncertainty, you would give sensible encouragement to one abundantly
able to give you wealth and the highest position."

"Mr. Merwyn?"

"Yes, Mr. Merwyn," continued her mother, with an emphasis somewhat irritable. "He is not an
old, worn-out millionnaire, like Mr. Lanniere. He is young, exceedingly handsome, so high-born
that he is received as an equal in the houses of the titled abroad. He has come to me like
an honorable man, and asked for the privilege of paying his addresses. He would have asked
your father had he been in town.  He was frank about his affairs, and has just received, in
his own name, a very large property, which he proposes to double by entering upon business
in New York."

"What does his mother think of his intentions toward me?" the young girl asked, so quietly,
that Mrs. Vosburgh was really encouraged.

"He says that he and his mother differ on many points, and will differ on this one, and that
is all he seemed inclined to say, except to remark significantly that he had attained his majority."

"It was he whom you meant, when you said that some one might come who would divert my thoughts?"

"I think he would have come, had it not been for the storm."

"Mamma, you have not given him any encouragement? You have not compromised yourself, or me?"

Mrs. Vosburgh bridled with the beginnings of resentment, and said, "Marian, you should know
me too well--"

"There, there, mamma, I was wrong to think of such a thing; I ask your pardon."

"I may have my sensible wishes and preferences," resumed the lady, complacently, "but I have
never yet acted the role of the anxious, angling mamma. I cannot help wishing, however, that
you would consider favorably an offer like this one, and I certainly could not treat Mr. Merwyn
otherwise than with courtesy."

"That was right and natural of you, mamma. You have no controversy with Mr. Merwyn; I have.
I hate and detest him. Well, since he may come, I shall dress and be prepared."

"O Marian! you are so quixotic!"

"Dear mamma, you are mistaken. Do not think me inconsiderate of you.  Some day I will prove
I am not by my marriage, if I marry;" and she went to her mother and kissed her tenderly.

Then by a sudden transition she drew herself up with the dark, inscrutable expression that
was becoming characteristic since deeper experiences had entered into her life, and said, firmly:--

"Should I do as you suggest, I should be false to those true friends who have gone to fight,
perhaps to die; false to my father; false to all that's good and true in my own soul. As to
my heart," she concluded, with a contemptuous shrug, "that has nothing to do with the affair.
Mamma, you must promise me one thing. I do not wish you to meet Mr. Merwyn to-night. Please
excuse yourself if he asks for you. I will see him."

"Mark my words, Marian, you will marry a poor man."

"Oh, I have no objection to millionnaires," replied the girl, with a short, unmirthful laugh,
"but they must begin their suit in a manner differing from that of two who have favored me;"
and she went to her room.

As Merwyn resembled his deceased parent, so Marian had inherited not a little of her father's
spirit and character. Until within the last few months her mother's influence had been predominant,
and the young girl had reflected the social conventionalities to which she was accustomed.
No new traits had since been created. Her increasing maturity had rendered her capable of revealing
qualities inherent in her nature, should circumstances evoke them. The flower, as it expands,
the plant as it grows, is apparently very different, yet the same. The stern, beautiful woman
who is arraying herself before her mirror, as a soldier assumes his arms and equipments, is
the same with the thoughtless, pleasure-loving girl whom we first met in her drawing-room in
June; but months of deep and almost tragic experience have called into activity latent forces
received from her father's soul,--his power of sustained action, of resolute purpose, of cherishing
high ideals, and of white, quiet anger.

Her toilet was scarcely completed when Willard Merwyn was announced.

CHAPTER XV.

SCORN.

IT is essential that we should go back several hours in our story. On the morning of the day
that witnessed the departure of Strahan and his company Merwyn's legal adviser had arrived
and had been closeted for several hours with his client. Mr. Bodoin was extremely conservative.
Even in youth he had scarcely known any leanings toward passion of any kind or what the world
regards as folly. His training had developed and intensified natural characteristics, and now
to preserve in security the property intrusted to his care through a stormy, unsettled period
had become his controlling motive. He looked upon the ups and downs of political men and measures
with what seemed to him a superior and philosophical indifference, and he was more than pleased
to find in Merwyn, the son of his old client, a spirit so in accord with his own ideas.

They had not been very long together on this fateful day before he remarked: "My dear young
friend, it is exceedingly gratifying to find that you are level-headed, like your father. He
was a man, Willard, whom you do well to imitate. He secured what he wanted and had his own
way, yet there was no nonsense about him. I was his intimate friend as well as legal adviser,
and I know, perhaps, more of his life than any one else. Your mother, to-day, is the handsomest
woman of her years I ever saw, but when she was of your age her beauty was startling, and she
had almost as many slaves among the first young men of the South as there were darkies on the
plantation, yet your father quietly bore her away from them all. What is more, he so managed
as to retain her respect and affection to the last, at the same time never yielding an inch
in his just rights or dignity, and he ever made Mrs. Merwyn feel that her just rights and dignity
were equally sacred. Proud as your mother was, she had the sense to see that his course was
the only proper one. Their marriage, my boy, always reminded me of an alliance between two
sovereign and alien powers. It was like a court love-match abroad. Your father, a Northern
man, saw the beautiful Southern heiress, and he sued as if he were a potentate from a foreign
realm. Well-born and accustomed to wealth all his life, he matched her pride with a pride as
great, and made his offer on his feet as if he were conferring as much as he should receive.
That, in fact, was the only way to win a woman who had been bowed down to all her life.  After
marriage they lived together like two independent sovereigns, sometimes here, then in the city
house, and, when Mrs. Merwyn so desired it, on the Southern plantation, or abroad. He always
treated her as if she were a countess or a queen in her own right and paid the utmost deference
to her Southern ideas, but never for a moment permitted her to forget that he was her equal
and had the same right to his Northern views. In regard to financial matters he looked after
her interests as if he were her prime minister, instead of a husband wishing to avail himself
of anything. In his own affairs he consulted me constantly and together we planted his investments
on the bed-rock. These reminiscences will enable you to understand the pleasure with which
I recognize in you the same traits. Of course you know that the law gives you great power over
your property. If you were inclined to dissipation, or, what would be little better in these
times, were hot-headed and bent on taking part in this losing fight of the South, I should
have no end of trouble."

"You, also, are satisfied, then, that it will be a losing fight?" Merwyn had remarked.

"Yes, even though the South achieves its independence. I am off at one side of all the turmoil,
and my only aim is to keep my trusts safe, no matter who wins. I see things as they are up
to date and not as I might wish them to be if under the influence of passion or prejudice.
The South may be recognized by foreign powers and become a separate state, although I regard
this as very doubtful. In any event the great North and West, with the immense tides of immigration
pouring in, will so preponderate as to be overshadowing. The Southern empire, of which Mrs.
Merwyn dreams, would dwindle rather than grow. Human slavery, right or wrong, is contrary to
the spirit of the age. But enough of this political discussion. I only touch upon it to influence
your action. By the course you are pursuing you not only preserve all your Northern property,
but you will also enable me to retain for your mother and sisters the Southern plantation.
This would be impossible if you were seeking 'the bubble, reputation, at the cannon's mouth'
on either side. Whatever happens, there must still be law and government. Both sides will soon
get tired of this exhausting struggle, and then those who survive and have been wise will reap
the advantage. Now, as to your own affairs, the legal formalities are nearly completed. If
you return and spend the winter in New York I can put you in the way of vastly increasing your
property, and by such presence and business activity you will disarm all criticism which your
mother's Southern relations may occasion."

"Mamma will bitterly oppose my return."

"I can only say that what I advise will greatly tend to conserve Mrs. Merwyn's interests. If
you prefer, we can manage it in this way: after you have safely established your mother and
sisters abroad I can write you a letter saying that your interests require your presence."

And so it had been arranged, and the old lawyer sat down to dinner with Mrs. Merwyn, paying
her the courtly deference which, while it gratified her pride, was accepted as a matter of
course--as a part of her husband's legacy. He had soon afterwards taken his departure, leaving
his young client in a most complacent and satisfactory mood.

It may thus be seen that Merwyn was not an unnatural product of the influences which had until
now guided his life and formed his character. The reminiscences of his father's friend had
greatly increased his sense of magnanimity in his intentions towards Marian.  In the overweening
pride of youth he felt as if he were almost regally born and royally endowed, and that a career
was opening before him in which he should prove his lofty superiority to those whose heads
were turned by the hurly-burly of the hour. Young as he was, he had the sense to be in accord
with wise old age, that looked beyond the clouds and storm in which so many would be wrecked.
Nay, even more, from those very wrecks he would gather wealth.

"The time and opportunity for cool heads," he smilingly assured himself, "is when men are parting
with judgment and reason."

Such was his spirit when he sought the presence of the girl whose soul was keyed up to almost
a passion of self-sacrifice. His mind belittled the cause for which her idolized father was,
at that moment, perilling his life, and to which her dearest friends had consecrated themselves.
He was serene in congratulating himself that "little Strahan" had gone, and that the storm
would prevent the presence of other interlopers.

Although the room was lighted as usual, he had not waited many moments before a slight chill
fell upon his sanguine mood. The house was so still, and the rain dripped and the wind sighed
so dismally without, that a vague presentiment of evil began to assert itself. Heretofore he
had found the apartment full of life and mirth, and he could not help remembering that some
who had been its guests might now be out in the storm. Would she think of this also?

The parlor was scarcely in its usual pretty order, and no flowers graced the table. Evidently
no one was expected. "All the better," he assured himself; "and her desolation will probably
incline her the more to listen to one who can bring golden gleams on such a dreary night."

A daily paper, with heavy headlines, lay on a chair near him. The burden of these lines was
DEFEAT, CARNAGE, DEATH.

They increased the slight chill that was growing upon him, and made him feel that possibly
the story of his birth and greatness which he had hoped to tell might be swallowed up by this
other story which fascinated him with its horror.

A slight rustle caused him to look up, and Marian stood before him. Throwing aside the paper
as if it were an evil spell, he rose, would have offered his hand had there been encouragement,
but the girl merely bowed and seated herself as she said: "Good-evening, Mr.  Merwyn. You are
brave to venture out in such a storm."

Was there irony in the slight accent on the word "brave"? How singularly severe was her costume,
also!--simple black, without an ornament. Yet he admitted that he had never seen her in so
effective a dress, revealing, as it did, the ivory whiteness of her arms and neck.

"There is only one reason why I should not come this evening,--you may have hoped to escape
all callers."

"It matters little what one hopes in these times," she said, "for events are taking place which
set aside all hopes and expectations."

In her bitter mood she was impatient to have the interview over, so that she accomplished her
purpose. Therefore she proposed, contrary to her custom with him, to employ the national tragedy,
to which he was so indifferent, as one of her keenest weapons.

"It is quite natural that you should feel so, Miss Vosburgh, in regard to such hopes as you
have thus far entertained--"

"Since they are the only hopes I know anything about, Mr. Merwyn, I am not indifferent to them.
I suppose you were at the depot to see your friend, Mr. Strahan, depart?" and the question
was asked with a steady, searching scrutiny that was a little embarrassing.

Indeed, her whole aspect produced a perplexed, wondering admiration, for she seemed breathing
marble in her cold self-possession. He felt, however, that the explanation which he must give
of his absence when so many were evincing patriotic good-will would enable him to impress her
with the fact that he had superior interests at stake in which she might have a share.

Therefore he said, gravely, as if the reason were ample: "I should have been at the depot,
of course, had not my legal adviser come up from town to-day and occupied me with very important
business. Mr.  Bodoin's time is valuable to him, and he presented, for my consideration, questions
of vital interest. I have reached that age now when I must not only act for myself, but I also
have very delicate duties to perform towards my mother and sisters."

"Mr. Strahan had a sad duty to perform towards his mother and sisters,--he said good-by to them."

"A duty which I shall soon have to perform, also," Merwyn said.

She looked at him inquiringly. Had he at last found his manhood, and did he intend to assert
it? Had he abandoned his calculating policy, and was he cherishing some loyal purpose? If this
were true and she had any part in his decision, it would be a triumph indeed; and, while she
felt that she could never respond to any such proposition as he had made through her mother,
she could forget the past and give him her hand in friendly encouragement towards such a career
as Lane and Strahan had chosen. She felt that it would be well not to be over-hasty in showing
resentment, but if possible to let him reveal his plans and character fully. She listened quietly,
therefore, without show of approval or disapproval, as he began in reply to her questioning glance.

"I am going to be frank with you this evening, Miss Vosburgh. The time has come when I should
be so. Has not Mrs. Vosburgh told you something of the nature of my interview with her?"

The young girl merely bowed.

"Then you know how sincere and earnest I am in what--in what I shall have to say."

To his surprise he felt a nervous trepidation that he would not have imagined possible in making
his magnanimous offer. He found this humble American girl more difficult to approach than any
other woman he had ever met.

"Miss Vosburgh," he continued, hesitatingly, "when I first entered this room I did not understand
your true worth and superiority, but a sense of these has been growing on me from that hour
to this. Perhaps I was not as sincere as I--I--should have been, and you were too clever not
to know it. Will you listen to me patiently?"

Again she bowed, and lower this time to conceal a slight smile of triumph.

Encouraged, he proceeded: "Now that I have learned to know you well, I wish you to know me
better,--to know all about me. My father was a Northern man with strong Northern traits; my
mother, a Southern woman with equally strong Southern traits. I have been educated chiefly
abroad. Is it strange, then, that I cannot feel exactly as you do, or as some of your friends do?"

"As we once agreed, Mr. Merwyn, each must choose his own course for life."

"I am glad you have reminded me of that, for I am choosing for life and not for the next ten
months or ten years. As I said, then, all this present hurly-burly will soon pass away." Her
face darkened, but in his embarrassment and preoccupation he did not perceive it. "I have inherited
a very large property, and my mother's affairs are such that I must act wisely, if not always
as she would wish."

"May I ask what Mrs. Merwyn would prefer?"

"I am prepared to be perfectly frank about myself," he replied, hesitatingly, "but--"

"Pardon me. It is immaterial."

"I have a perfect right to judge and act for myself," resumed Merwyn, with some emphasis.

"Thank you. I should remember that."

The words were spoken in a low tone and almost as if in soliloquy, and her face seemed to grow
colder and more impassive if possible.

With something approaching dismay Merwyn had observed that the announcement of his large fortune
had had no softening influence on the girl's manner, and he thought, "Truly, this is the most
dreary and business-like wooing that I ever imagined!"

But he had gone too far to recede, and his embarrassment was beginning to pass into something
like indignation that he and all he could offer were so little appreciated.

Restraining this feeling, he went on, gravely and gently: "You once intimated that I was young,
Miss Vosburgh, yet the circumstances and responsibilities of my lot have led me to think more,
perhaps, than others of my age, and to look beyond the present hour. I regard the property
left me by my father as a trust, and I have learned to-day that I can greatly increase and
probably double it. It is my intention, after taking my mother and sisters abroad, to return
to New York and to enter cautiously into business under the guidance of my legal adviser, who
is a man of great sagacity. Now, as you know, I have said from the first that it is natural
for you to feel deeply in regard to the events of the day; but I look beyond all this turmoil,
distraction, and passion, which will be as temporary as it is violent. I am thinking for you
as truly as for myself. Pardon me for saying it; I am sure I am in a better condition of mind
to think for you than you are to judge for yourself. I can give you the highest social position,
and make your future a certainty. From causes I can well understand the passion of the hour
has been swaying you--"

She rose, and by an emphatic gesture stopped him, and there was a fire in the blue eyes that
had been so cold before. She appeared to have grown inches as she stood before him and said,
in tones of concentrated scorn: "You are indeed young, yet you speak the calculating words
of one so old as to have lost every impulse of youth. Do you know where my father is at this
moment?"

"No," he faltered.

"He is taking part, at the risk of his life, in this temporary hurly-burly, as you caricature
it. It is he who is swaying me, and the memory of the brave men whom you have met here and
to whom you fancied yourself superior. Did not that honored father exist, or those brave friends,
I feel within my soul that I have womanhood enough to recognize and feel my country's need
in this supreme hour of her peril. You thoughtful beyond your years?--you think for me? What
did you think of me the first evening you spent here? What were your thoughts as you came again
and again? To what am I indebted for this honor, but the fact that you could only beguile a
summer's ennui by a passing flirtation which would leave me you little cared where, after you
had joined your aristocratic friends abroad? Now your plans have changed, and, after much deliberation,
you have come to lift me to the highest position! Never dream that I can descend to your position!"

He was fairly trembling with anger and mortification, and she was about to leave the apartment.

"Stay!" he said, passing his hand across his brow as if to brush away confusion of mind; "I
have not given you reason for such contempt, and it is most unreasonable."

"Why is it unreasonable?" she asked, her scornful self-control passing into something like
passion. "I will speak no more of the insult of your earlier motives towards me, now that you
think you can afford to marry me. In your young egotism you may think a girl forgets and forgives
such a thing easily if bribed by a fortune. I will let all that be as if it were not, and meet
you on the ground of what is, at this present hour. I despise you because you have no more
mind or manhood--take it as you will--than to think that this struggle for national life and
liberty is a mere passing fracas of politicians. Do you think I will tamely permit you to call
my noble father little better than a fool? He has explained to me what this war means--he,
of twice your age, and with a mind as large as his manhood and courage. You have assumed to
be his superior, also, as well as that of Mr. Lane and Mr. Strahan, who are about to peril
life in the 'hurly-burly.' What are your paltry thousands to me?  Should I ever love, I will
love a MAN; and had I your sex and half your inches, I should this hour be in Virginia, instead
of defending those I love and honor against your implied aspersions. Had you your mother's
sentiments I should at least respect you, although she has no right to be here enjoying the
protection of a government that she would destroy."

He was as pale as she had become flushed, and again he passed his hand over his brow confusedly
and almost helplessly. "It is all like a horrid dream," he muttered.

"Mr. Merwyn, you have brought this on yourself," she said, more calmly. "You have sought to
wrong me in my own home. Your words and manner have ever been an insult to the cause for which
my father may die--O God!" she exclaimed, with a cry of agony--"for which he may now be dead!
Go, go," she added, with a strong repellent gesture.  "We have nothing in common: you measure
everything with the inch-rule of self."

As if pierced to the very soul he sprung forward and seized her hand with almost crushing force,
as he cried: "No, I measure everything hereafter by the breadth of your woman's soul. You shall
not cast me off in contempt. If you do you are not a woman,--you are a fanatic, worse than
my mother;" and he rushed from the house like one distraught.

Panting, trembling, frightened by a volcanic outburst such as she had never dreamed of, Marian
sunk on a lounge, sobbing like a child.

CHAPTER XVI.

AWAKENED AT LAST.

IT may well be imagined that Mrs. Vosburgh was not far distant during the momentous interview
described in the last chapter, and, as Merwyn rushed from the house as if pursued by the furies,
she appeared at once on the scene, full of curiosity and dismay.

Exclamations, questionings, elicited little from Marian. The strain of the long, eventful day
had been too great, and the young girl, who might have been taken as a type of incensed womanhood
a few moments before, now had scarcely better resources than such remedies as Mrs. Vosburgh's
matronly experience knew how to apply. Few remain long on mountain-tops, physical or metaphorical,
and deep valleys lie all around them. Little else could be done for the poor girl than to bring
the oblivion of sleep, and let kindly Nature nurse her child back to a more healthful condition
of body and mind.

But it would be long before Willard Merwyn would be amenable to the gentle offices of nature.
Simpson, the footman, flirting desperately with the pretty waitress in the kitchen below, heard
his master's swift, heavy step on the veranda, and hastened out only in time to clamber into
his seat as Merwyn drove furiously away in the rain and darkness. Every moment the trembling
lackey expected they would all go to-wreck and ruin, but the sagacious animals were given their
heads, and speedily made their way home.

The man took the reeking steeds to the stable, and Merwyn disappeared. He did not enter the
house, for he felt that he would stifle there, and the thought of meeting his mother was intolerable.
Therefore, he stole away to a secluded avenue, and strode back and forth under the dripping
trees, oblivious, in his fierce perturbation, of outward discomfort.

Mrs. Merwyn waited in vain for him to enter, then questioned the attendant.

"Faix, mum, I know nothin' at all. Mr. Willard druv home loike one possessed, and got out at
the door, and that's the last oi've seen uv 'im."

The lady received the significant tidings with mingled anxiety and satisfaction. Two things
were evident. He had become more interested in Miss Vosburgh than he had admitted, and she,
by strange good fortune, had refused him.

"It was a piece of folly that had to come in some form, I suppose," she soliloquized, "although
I did not think Willard anything like so sure to perpetrate it as most young men. Well, the
girl has saved me not a little trouble, for, of course, I should have been compelled to break
the thing up;" and she sat down to watch and wait. She waited so long that anxiety decidedly
got the better of her satisfaction.

Meanwhile the object of her thoughts was passing through an experience of which he had never
dreamed. In one brief hour his complacency, pride, and philosophy of life had been torn to
tatters.  He saw himself as Marian saw him, and he groaned aloud in his loathing and humiliation.
He looked back upon his superior airs as ridiculous, and now felt that he would rather be a
private in Strahan's company than the scorned and rejected wretch that he was.  The passionate
nature inherited from his mother was stirred to its depths. Even the traits which he believed
to be derived from his father, and which the calculating lawyer had commended, had secured
the young girl's most withering contempt; and he saw how she contrasted him with her father
and Mr. Lane,--yes, even with little Strahan. In her bitter words he heard the verdict of the
young men with whom he had associated, and of the community. Throughout the summer he had dwelt
apart, wrapped in his own self-sufficiency and fancied superiority. His views had been of gradual
growth, and he had come to regard them as infallible, especially when stamped with the approval
of his father's old friend; but the scathing words, yet ringing in his ears, showed him that
brave, conscientious manhood was infinitely more than his wealth and birth. As if by a revelation
from heaven he saw that he had been measuring everything with the little rule of self, and
in consequence he had become so mean and small that a generous-hearted girl had shrunk from
him in loathing.

Then in bitter anger and resentment he remembered how he was trammelled by his oath to his
mother. It seemed to him that his life was blighted by this pledge and a false education. There
was no path to her side who would love and honor only a MAN.

At last the mere physical manifestations of passion and excitement began to pass away, and
he felt that he was acting almost like one insane as he entered the house.

Mrs. Merwyn met him, but he said, hoarsely, "I cannot talk with you to-night."

"Willard, be rational. You are wet through. You will catch your death in these clothes."

"Nothing would suit me better, as I feel now;" and he broke away.

He was so haggard when he came down late the next morning that his mother could not have believed
such a change possible in so short a time. "It is going to be more serious than I thought,"
was her mental comment as she poured him out a cup of coffee.

It was indeed; for after drinking the coffee in silence, he looked frowningly out of the window
for a time; then said abruptly to the waiter, "Leave the room."

The tone was so stern that the man stole out with a scared look.

"Willard," began Mrs. Merwyn, with great dignity, "you are acting in a manner unbecoming your
birth and breeding."

Turning from the window, he fixed his eyes on his mother with a look that made her shiver.

At last he asked, in a low, stern voice, "Why did you bind me with that oath?"

"Because I foresaw some unutterable folly such as you are now manifesting."

"No," he said, in the same cold, hard tone. "It was because your cursed Confederacy was more
to you than my freedom, than my manhood,--more to you than I am myself."

"O Willard! What ravings!"

"Was my father insane when he quietly insisted on his rights, yielding you yours? What right
had you to cripple my life?"

"I took the only effective means to prevent you from doing just that for yourself."

"How have you succeeded?"

"I have prevented you, as a man of honor, from doing, under a gust of passion, what would spoil
all my plans and hopes."

"I am not a man. You have done your best to prevent me from being one. You have bound me with
a chain, and made me like one of the slaves on your plantation. Your plans and hopes? Have
I no right to plans and hopes?"

"You know my first thought has been of you and for you."

"No, I do not know this. I now remember that, when you bound me, a thoughtless, selfish, indolent
boy, you said that you would have torn your heart out rather than marry my father had you foreseen
what was coming. This miserable egotist, Jeff Davis, and his scheme of empire, cost what it
may, are more to you than husband or child. A mother would have said: 'You have reached manhood
and have the rights of a man. I will advise you and seek to guide you. You know my feelings
and views, and in their behalf I will even entreat you; but you have reached that age when
the law makes you free, and holds you accountable to your own conscience.' Of what value is
my life if it is not mine? I should have the right to make my own life, like others."

"You have the right to make it, but not to mar it."

"In other words, your prejudices, your fanaticism, are to take the place of my conscience and
reason. You expect me to carry a sham of manhood out into the world. I wish you to release
me from my oath."

"Never," cried Mrs. Merwyn, with a passion now equal to his own. "You have fallen into the
hands of a Delilah, and she has shorn you of your manhood. Infatuated with a nameless Northern
girl, you would blight your life and mine. When you come to your senses you will thank me on
your knees that I interposed an oath that cannot be broken between you and suicidal folly;"
and she was about to leave the room.

"Stop," he said, huskily. "When I bound myself I did so without realizing what I did. I was
but a boy, knowing not the future. I did it out of mere good-will to you, little dreaming of
the fetters you were forging. Since you will not release me and treat me as a man I shall keep
the oath. I swore never to put on the uniform of a Union soldier, or to step on Southern soil
with a hostile purpose, but you have taught me to detest your Confederacy with implacable hate;
and I shall use my means, my influence, all that I am, to aid others to destroy it."

"What! are you not going back to England with us?"

"Yes."

"Before you have been there a week this insane mood will pass away."

"Did my father's moods pass away?"

"Your father--" began the lady, impetuously, and then hesitated.

"My father always yielded you your just rights and maintained his own. I shall imitate his
example as far as I now may. The oath is a thing that stands by itself. It will probably spoil
my life, but I cannot release myself from it."

"You leave me only one course, Willard,--to bear with you as if you were a passionate child.
You never need hope for my consent to an alliance with the under-bred creature who has been
the cause of this folly."

"Thank you. You now give me your complete idea of my manhood. I request that these subjects
be dismissed finally between us. I make another pledge,--I shall be silent whenever you broach
them;" and with a bow he left the apartment.

Half an hour later he was climbing the nearest mountain, resolved on a few hours of solitude.
From a lofty height he could see the little Vosburgh cottage, and, by the aid of a powerful
glass, observed that the pony phaeton did not go out as usual, although the day was warm and
beautiful after the storm.

The mists of passion were passing from his mind, and in strong reaction from his violent excitement
he sunk, at first, into deep depression. So morbid was he that he cried aloud: "O my father!
Would to God that you had lived! Where are you that you can give no counsel, no help?"

But he was too young to give way to utter despondency, and at last his mind rallied around
the words he had spoken to Marian. "I shall, hereafter, measure everything by the breadth of
your woman's soul."

As he reviewed the events of the summer in the light of recent experience, he saw how strong,
unique, and noble her character was. Faults she might have in plenty, but she was above meannesses
and mercenary calculation. The men who had sought her society had been incited to manly action,
and beneath all the light talk and badinage earnest and heroic purposes had been formed; he
meanwhile, poor fool! had been too blinded by conceited arrogance to understand what was taking
place. He had so misunderstood her as to imagine that after she had spent a summer in giving
heroic impulses she would be ready to form an alliance that would stultify all her action,
and lose her the esteem of men who were proving their regard in the most costly way. He wondered
at himself, but thought:--

"I had heard so much about financial marriages abroad that I had gained the impression that
no girl in these days would slight an offer like mine. Even her own mother was ready enough
to meet my views. I wonder if she will ever forgive me, ever receive me again as a guest, so
that I can make a different impression. I fear she will always think me a coward, hampered
as I am by a restraint that I cannot break. Well, my only chance is to take up life from her
point of view, and to do the best I can. There is something in my nature which forbids my ever
yielding or giving up. So far as it is now possible I shall keep my word to her, and if she
has a woman's heart she may, in time, so far relent as to give me a place among her friends.
This is now my ambition, for, if I achieve this, I shall know I am winning such manhood as
I can attain."

When Merwyn appeared at dinner he was as quiet and courteous as if nothing had happened; but
his mother was compelled to note that the boyishness had departed out of his face, and in its
strong lines she recognized his growing resemblance to his father.

Two weeks later he accompanied his mother and sisters to England. Before his departure he learned
that Marian had been seriously ill, but was convalescent, and that her father had returned.

Meantime and during the voyage, with the differences natural to the relation of mother and
son, his manner was so like that of his father towards her that she was continually reminded
of the past, and was almost led to fear that she had made a grave error in the act she had
deemed so essential. But her pride and her hopes for the future prevented all concession.

"When he is once more in society abroad this freak will pass away," she thought, "and some
English beauty will console him."

But after they were well established in a pretty villa near congenial acquaintances, Merwyn
said one morning, "I shall return to New York next week."

"Willard! how can you think of such a thing? I was planning to spend the latter part of the
winter in Rome."

"That you may easily do with your knowledge of the city and your wide circle of friends."

"But we need you. We want you to be with us, and I think it most unnatural in you to leave
us alone."

"I have taken no oath to dawdle around Europe indefinitely. I propose to return to New York
and go into business."

"You have enough and more than enough already."

"I certainly have had enough of idleness."

"But I protest against it. I cannot consent."

"Mamma," he said, in the tone she so well remembered, "is not my life even partially my own?
What is your idea of a man whom both law and custom make his own master? Even as a woman you
chose for yourself at the proper age. What strange infatuation do you cherish that you can
imagine that a son of Willard Merwyn has no life of his own to live? It is now just as impossible
for me to idle away my best years in a foreign land as it would be for me to return to my cradle.
I shall look after your interests and comfort to the best of my ability, and, if you decide
to return to New York, you shall be received with every courtesy."

"I shall never return to New York. I would much prefer to go to my plantation and share the
fortunes of my own people."

"I supposed you would feel in that way, and I will do all in my power to further your wishes,
whatever they may be. My wishes, in personal matters, are now equally entitled to respect.
I shall carry them out;" and with a bow that precluded all further remonstrance he left the room.

A day or two later she asked, abruptly, "Will you use your means and influence against the South?"

"Yes."

Mrs. Merwyn's face became rigid, but nothing more was said. When he bade her good-by there
was an evident struggle in her heart, but she repressed all manifestations of feeling, and
mother and son parted.

CHAPTER XVII.

COMING TO THE POINT.

WHEN the tide has long been rising the time comes for it to recede. From the moment of Marian's
awakening to a desire for a better womanhood, she had been under a certain degree of mental
excitement and exaltation. This condition had culminated with the events that wrought up the
loyal North into suspense, anguish, and stern, relentless purpose.

While these events had a national and world-wide significance, they also pressed closely, in
their consequences, on individual life. It has been shown how true this was in the experience
of Marian. Her own personal struggle alone, in which she was combating the habits and weakness
of the past, would not have been a trivial matter,--it never is when there is earnest endeavor,--but,
in addition to this, her whole soul had been kindling in sympathy with the patriotic fire that
was impelling her dearest friends towards danger and possible death. Lane's, Strahan's, and
Blauvelt's departure, and her father's peril, had brought her to a point that almost touched
the limit of endurance. Then had come the man whose attentions had been so humiliating to her
personally, and who represented to her the genius of the Rebellion that was bringing her such
cruel experience. She saw his spirit of condescension even in his offer of marriage; worse
still, she saw that he belittled the conflict in which even her father was risking his life;
and her indignation and resentment had burst forth upon him with a power that she could not
restrain.

The result had been most unexpected. Instead of slinking away overwhelmed with shame and confusion,
or departing in haughty anger, Merwyn had revealed to her that which is rarely witnessed by
any one,--the awakening of a strong, passionate nature. In the cynical, polished, self-pleasing
youth was something of which she had not dreamed,--of which he was equally unaware. Her bitter
words pierced through the strata of self-sufficiency and pride that had been accumulating for
years. She stabbed with truth the outer man and slew it, but the inner and possible manhood
felt the sharp thrust and sprung up wounded, bleeding, and half desperate with pain. That which
wise and kindly education might have developed was evoked in sudden agony, strong yet helpless,
overwhelmed with the humiliating consciousness of what had been, and seeing not the way to
what she would honor. Yet in that supreme moment the instinct asserted itself that she, who
had slain his meaner self, had alone the power to impart the impulse toward true manhood and
to give the true measure of it. Hence a declaration so passionate, and an appeal so full of
his immense desire and need, that she was frightened, and faltered helplessly.

In the following weary days of suffering and weakness, she realized that she was very human,
and not at all the exalted heroine that she had unconsciously come to regard herself. The suitor
whom she had thought to dismiss in contempt and anger, and to have done with, could not be
banished from her mind. The fact that he had proved himself to be all that she had thought
him did not satisfy her, for the reason that he had apparently shown himself to be so much
more.  She had judged him superficially, and punished him accordingly. She had condemned him
unsparingly for traits which, except for a few short months, had been her own characteristics.
While it was true that they seemed more unworthy in a man, still they were essentially the same.

"But he was not a man," she sighed. "He was scarcely more than the selfish boy that wealth,
indulgence, and fashionable life had made him. Why was I so blind to this? Why could I not
have seen that nothing had ever touched him deeply enough to show what he was, or, at least,
of what he was capable? What was Strahan before his manhood was awakened? A little gossiping
exquisite. Even Mr. Lane, who was always better than any of us, has changed wonderfully since
he has had exceptional motives for noble action. What was I, myself, last June, when I was
amusing myself at the expense of a man whom I knew to be so good and true? In view of all this,
instead of having a little charity for Mr. Merwyn, who, no doubt, is only the natural product
of the influences of his life, I only tolerated him in the vindictive hope of giving the worst
blow that a woman can inflict. I might have seen that he had a deeper nature; at least, I might
have hoped that he had, and given him a chance to reveal it. Perhaps there has never been one
who tried to help him toward true manhood.  He virtually said that his mother was a Southern
fanatic, and his associations have been with those abroad who sympathized with her.  Is it
strange that a mere boy of twenty-one should be greatly influenced by his mother and her aristocratic
friends? He said his father was a Northern man, and he may have imbibed the notion that he
could not fight on either side. Well, if he will give up such a false idea, if he will show
that he is not cold-blooded and calculating, as his last outbreak seemed to prove, and can
become as brave and true a soldier as Strahan, I will make amends by treating him as I do Strahan,
and will try to feel as friendly towards him.  He shall not have the right to say I'm 'not
a woman but a fanatic.'"

She proved herself a woman by the effort to make excuses for one towards whom she had been
severe, by her tendency to relent after she had punished to her heart's content.

"But," added the girl aloud, in the solitude of her room, "while I may give him my hand in
some degree of kindliness and friendship, if he shows a different spirit, he shall never have
my colors, never my loyal and almost sisterly love, until he has shown the courage and manhood
of Mr. Lane and Mr. Strahan. They shall have the first place until a better knight appears."

When, one September evening, her father quietly entered his home he gave her an impulse towards
convalescence beyond the power of all remedies. There were in time mutual confidences, though
his were but partial, because relating to affairs foreign to her life, and tending to create
useless anxieties in respect to the future. He was one of those sagacious, fearless agents
whom the government, at that period, employed in many and secret ways. For obvious reasons
the nature and value of their services will never be fully known.

Marian was unreserved in her relation of what had occurred, and her father smiled and reassured
her.

"In one sense you are right," he said. "We should have a broader, kindlier charity for all
sorts of people, and remember that, since we do not know their antecedents and the influences
leading to their actions, we should not be hasty to judge. Your course might have been more
Christian-like towards young Merwyn, it is true. Coming from you, however, in your present
state of development, it was very natural, and I'm not sure but he richly deserved your words.
If he has good mettle he will be all the better for them. If he spoke from mere impulse and
goes back to his old life and associations, I'm glad my little girl was loyal and brave enough
to lodge in his memory truths that he won't forget. Take the good old doctrine to your relenting
heart and don't forgive him until he 'brings forth fruits meet for repentance.' I'm proud of
you that you gave the young aristocrat such a wholesome lesson in regard to genuine American
manhood and womanhood."

Mrs. Vosburgh's reception of her husband was a blending of welcome and reproaches. What right
had he to overwhelm them with anxiety, etc., etc.?

"The right of about a million men who are taking part in the struggle," he replied, laughing
at her good-naturedly.

"But I can't permit or endure it any longer," said his wife, and there was irritation in her
protest.

"Well, my dear," he replied, with a shrug, "I must remain among the eccentric millions who
continue to act according to their own judgment."

"Mamma!" cried Marian, who proved that she was getting well by a tendency to speak sharply,
"do you wish papa to be poorer-spirited than any of the million? What kind of a man would he
be should he reply, 'Just as you say, my dear; I've no conscience, or will of my own'? I do
not believe that any girl in the land will suffer more than I when those I love are in danger,
but I'd rather die than blockade the path of duty with my love."

"Yes, and some day when you are fatherless you may repent those words," sobbed Mrs. Vosburgh.

"This will not answer," said Mr. Vosburgh, in a tone that quieted both mother and daughter,
who at this stage were inclined to be a little hysterical. "A moment's rational thought will
convince you that words cannot influence me. I know exactly what I owe to you and to my country,
and no earthly power can change my course a hair's breadth. If I should be brought home dead
to-morrow, Marian would not have the shadow of a reason for self-reproach. She would have no
more to do with it than with the sunrise. Your feelings, in both instances, are natural enough,
and no doubt similar scenes are taking place all over the land; but men go just the same, as
they should do and always have done in like emergencies. So wipe away your tears, little women.
You have nothing to cry about yet, while many have."

The master mind controlled and quieted them. Mrs. Vosburgh looked at her husband a little curiously,
and it dawned upon her more clearly than ever before that the man whom she managed, as she
fancied, was taking his quiet, resolute way through life with his own will at the helm.

Marian thought, "Ah, why does not mamma idolize such a man and find her best life in making
the most of his life?"

She had, as yet, scarcely grasped the truth that, as disease enfeebles the body, so selfishness
disables the mind, robbing it of the power to care for others, or to understand them. In a
sense Mr.  Vosburgh would always be a stranger to his wife. He had philosophically and patiently
accepted the fact, and was making the best of the relation as it existed.

It was now decided that the family should return at once to their city home. Mr. Vosburgh had
a few days of leisure to superintend the removal, and then his duties would become engrossing.

The evening before their departure was one of mild, charming beauty, and as the dining-room
was partially dismantled, it was Mr. Vosburgh's fancy to have the supper-table spread on the
veranda. The meal was scarcely finished when a tall, broad-shouldered man appeared at the foot
of the steps, and Sally, the pretty waitress, manifested a blushing consciousness of his presence.

"Wud Mr. Vosburgh let me spake to him a moment?" began the stranger.

Marian recognized the voice that, from the shrubbery, had given utterance to the indignant
protest against traits which had once characterized her own life and motives. Thinking it possible
that her memory was at fault, she glanced at Sally's face and the impression was confirmed.
"What ages have passed since that June evening!" she thought.

"Is it anything private, my man?" asked Mr. Vosburgh, pushing back his chair and lighting a cigar.

"Faix, zur, it's nothin' oi'm ashamed on. I wish to lave the country and get a place on the
perlace force," repeated the man, with an alacrity which showed that he wished Sally to hear
his request.

"You look big and strong enough to handle most men."

"Ye may well say that, zur; oi've not sane the man yit that oi was afeared on."

Sally chuckled over her knowledge that this was not true in respect to women, while Marian
whispered to her father: "Secure him the place if you can, papa. You owe a great deal to him
and so do I, although he does not know it. This is the man whose words, spoken to Sally, disgusted
me with my old life. Don't you remember?"

Mr. Vosburgh's eyes twinkled, as he shot a swift glance at Sally, whose face was redder than
the sunset. The man's chief attraction to the city was apparent.

"What's your name?" the gentleman asked.

"Barney Ghegan, zur."

"Are you perfectly loyal to the North? Will you help carry out the laws, even against your
own flesh and blood, if necessary?"

"Oi'll 'bey orders, zur," replied the man, emphatically. "Oi've come to Amarekay to stay, and
oi'll stan' by the goovernment."

"Can you bring me a certificate of your character?"

"Oi can, zur, for foive years aback."

"Bring it then, Barney, and you shall go on the force; for you're a fine, strong-looking man,--the
kind needed in these days," said Mr.  Vosburgh, glad to do a good turn for one who unwittingly
had rendered him so great a service, and also amused at this later aspect of the affair.

This amusement was greatly enhanced by observing Barney's proud, triumphant glance at Sally.
Turning quickly to note its effect on the girl, Mr. Vosburgh caught the coquettish maid in
the act of making a grimace at her much-tormented suitor.

Sally's face again became scarlet, and in embarrassed haste she began to clear the table.

Barney was retiring slowly, evidently wishing for an interview with his elusive charmer before
he should return to his present employers, and Mr. Vosburgh good-naturedly put in a word in
his favor.

"Stay, Barney, and have some supper before you go home. In behalf of Mrs. Vosburgh I give you
a cordial invitation."

"Yes," added the lady, who had been quietly laughing. "Now that you are to be so greatly promoted
we shall be proud to have you stay."

Barney doffed his hat and exclaimed, "Long loife to yez all, espacially to the swate-faced
young leddy that first spoke a good wourd for me, oi'm a-thinkin';" and he stepped lightly
around to the rear of the house.

"Sally," said Mr. Vosburgh, with preternatural gravity.

The girl courtesied and nearly dropped a dish.

"Mr. Barney Ghegan will soon be receiving a large salary."

Sally courtesied again, but her black eyes sparkled as she whisked the rest of the things from
the table and disappeared. She maintained her old tactics during supper and before the other
servants, exulting in the fact that the big, strong man was on pins and needles, devoid of
appetite and peace.

"'Afeared o' no mon,' he says," she thought, smilingly. "He's so afeared o' me that he's jist
a tremblin'."

After her duties were over, Barney said, mopping his brow: "Faix, but the noight is warm. A
stroll in the air wudn't be bad, oi'm a-thinkin'."

"Oi'm cool as a cowcumber," remarked Sally. "We'll wait for ye till ye goes out and gits cooled
off;" and she sat down complacently, while the cook and the laundress tittered.

An angry sparkle began to assert itself in Barney's blue eyes, and he remarked drily, as he
took his hat, "Yez moight wait longer than yez bargained for."

The shrewd girl saw that she was at the length of her chain, and sprung up, saying: "Oh, well,
since the mistress invited ye so politely, ye's company, and it's me duty to thry to entertain
ye. Where shall we go?" she added, as she passed out with him.

"To the rustic sate, sure. Where else shud we go?"

"A rustic sate is a quare place for a stroll."

"Oi shall have so much walkin' on me bate in New York, that it's well to begin settin' down
aready, oi'm a-thinkin'."

"Why, Barney, ye're going to be a reg'lar tramp. Who'd 'a thought that ye'd come down to that."

"Ah! arrah, wid ye nonsense! Sit ye down here, for oi'm a-goin' to spake plain the noight.
Noo, by the Holy Vargin, oi'm in arenest. Are ye goin' to blow hot, or are ye goin' to blow could?"

"Considerin' the hot night, Barney, wouldn't it be better for me to blow could?"

Barney scratched his head in perplexity. "Ye know what I mane," he ejaculated.

"Where will ye foind the girl that tells all she knows?"

"O Sally, me darlint, what's the use of batin' around the bush? Ye know that a cat niver looked
at crame as oi look on ye," said Barney, in a wheedling tone, and trying the tactics of coaxing
once more.

He sat down beside her and essayed with his insinuating arm to further his cause as his words
had not done.

"Arrah, noo, Barney Ghegan, what liberties wud ye be takin' wid a respectable girl?" and she
drew away decidedly.

He sprung to his feet and exploded in the words: "Sally Maguire, will ye be me woife? By the
holy poker! Answer, yis or no."

Sally rose, also, and in equally pronounced tones replied: "Yes, Barney Ghegan, I will, and
I'll be a good and faithful one, too. It's yeself that's been batin' round the bush. Did ye
think a woman was a-goin' to chase ye over hill and down dale and catch ye by the scruff of
the neck? What do ye take me for?"

"Oi takes ye for better, Sally, me darlint;" and then followed sounds suggesting the popping
of a dozen champagne corks.

Mr. Vosburgh, his wife, and Marian had been chatting quietly on the piazza, unaware of the
scene taking place in the screening shrubbery until Barney's final question had startled the
night like a command to "stand and deliver."

Repressing laughter with difficulty they tiptoed into the house and closed the door.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A GIRL'S STANDARD.

THE month of September, 1862, was a period of strong excitement and profound anxiety on both
sides of the vague and shifting line which divided the loyal North from the misguided but courageous
South.  During the latter part of August Gen. Pope had been overwhelmed with disaster, and
what was left of his heroic army was driven within the fortifications erected for the defence
of Washington. Apparently the South had unbounded cause for exultation. But a few weeks before
their capital had been besieged by an immense army, while a little to the north, upon the Rappahannock,
rested another Union army which, under a leader like Stonewall Jackson, would have been formidable
enough in itself to tax Lee's skill and strength to the utmost. Except in the immediate vicinity
of the capital and Fortress Monroe scarcely a National soldier had been left in Virginia. The
Confederates might proudly claim that the generalship of Lee and the audacity of Jackson had
swept the Northern invaders from the State.

Even more important than the prestige and glory won was the fact that the Virginian farmers
were permitted to gather their crops unmolested. The rich harvests of the Shenandoah Valley
and other regions, that had been and should have been occupied by National troops, were allowed
to replenish the Confederate granaries. There were rejoicings and renewed confidence in Southern
homes, and smiles of triumph on the faces of sympathizers abroad and throughout the North.

But the astute leaders of the Rebellion were well aware that the end had not yet come, and
that, unless some bold, paralyzing blow was struck, the struggle was but fairly begun. In response
to the request for more men new armies were springing up at the North. The continent shook
under the tread of hosts mustering with the stern purpose that the old flag should cover every
inch of the heritage left by our fathers.

Therefore, Lee was not permitted to remain on the defensive a moment, but was ordered to cross
the Potomac in the rear of Washington, threatening that city and Baltimore. It was supposed
that the advent of a Southern army into Maryland would create such an enthusiastic uprising
that thinned ranks would be recruited, and the State brought into close relation with the Confederate
Government. These expectations were not realized. The majority sympathized with Barbara Frietchie,

"Bravest of all in Frederick town,"

rather than with their self-styled deliverers; and Lee lost more by desertion from his own
ranks than he gained in volunteers. In this same town of Frederick, by strange carelessness
on the part of the rebels, was left an order which revealed to McClellan Lee's plans and the
positions which his divided army were to occupy during the next few days. Rarely has history
recorded such opportunities as were thus accidentally given to the Union commander.

The ensuing events proved that McClellan's great need was not the reinforcements for which
he so constantly clamored, but decision and energy of character. Had he possessed these qualities
he could have won for himself, from the fortuitous order which fell into his hands, a wreath
of unfading laurel, and perhaps have saved almost countless lives of his fellow-countrymen.
As it was, if he had only advanced his army a little faster, the twelve thousand Union soldiers,
surrendered by the incompetent and pusillanimous Gen. Miles, would have been saved from the
horrors of captivity and secured as a valuable reinforcement. To the very last, fortune appeared
bent on giving him opportunity. The partial success won on the 17th of September, at the battle
of Antietam, might easily have been made a glorious victory if McClellan had had the vigor
to put in enough troops, especially including Burnside's corps, earlier in the day. Again,
on the morning of the 18th, he had only to take the initiative, as did Grant after the first
day's fighting at Shiloh, and Lee could scarcely have crossed the Potomac with a corporal's
guard. But, as usual, he hesitated, and the enemy that robbed him of one of the highest places
in history was not the Confederate general or his army, but a personal trait,--indecision.
In the dawn of the 19th he sent out his cavalry to reconnoitre, and learned that his antagonist
was safe in Virginia. Fortune, wearied at last, finally turned her back upon her favorite.
The desperate and bloody battle resulted in little else than the ebb of the tide of war southward.
Northern people, it is true, breathed more freely. Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington
were safe for the present, but this seemed a meagre reward for millions of treasure and tens
of thousands of lives, especially when the capture of Richmond and the end of the Rebellion
had been so confidently promised.

If every village and hamlet in the land was profoundly stirred by these events, it can well
be understood that the commercial centre of New York throbbed like an irritated nerve under
the telegraph wires concentring there from the scenes of action. Every possible interest, every
variety of feeling, was touched in its vast and heterogeneous population, and the social atmosphere
was electrical with excitement.

From her very constitution, now that she had begun to comprehend the nature of the times, Marian
Vosburgh could not breathe this air in tranquillity. She was, by birthright, a spirited, warm-hearted
girl, possessing all a woman's disposition towards partisanship. Everything during the past
few months had tended to awaken a deep interest in the struggle, and passing events intensified
it. Not only in the daily press did she eagerly follow the campaign, but from her father she
learned much that was unknown to the general public. To a girl of mind the great drama in itself
could not fail to become absorbing, but when it is remembered that those who had the strongest
hold upon her heart were imperilled actors in the tragedy, the feeling with which she watched
the shifting scenes may in some degree be appreciated. She often saw her father's brow clouded
with deep anxiety, and dreaded that each new day might bring orders which would again take
him into danger.

While the letters of her loyal friend, Lane, veiled all that was hard and repulsive in his
service, she knew that the days of drill and equipment would soon be over, and that the new
regiment must participate in the dangers of active duty. This was equally true of Strahan and
Blauvelt. She laughed heartily over their illustrated journal, which, in the main, gave the
comic side of their life. But she never laid it aside without a sigh, for she read much between
the lines, and knew that the hour of battle was rapidly approaching. Thus far they had been
within the fortifications at Washington, for the authorities had learned the folly of sending
undisciplined recruits to the front.

At last, when the beautiful month of October was ended, and Lee's shattered army was rested
and reorganized, McClellan once more crossed the Potomac. Among the reinforcements sent to
him were the regiments of which Lane and Strahan were members. The letters of her friends proved
that they welcomed the change and with all the ardor of brave, loyal men looked forward to
meeting the enemy. In heart and thought she went with them, but a sense of their danger fell,
like a shadow, across her spirit. She appeared years older than the thoughtless girl for whom
passing pleasure and excitement had been the chief motives of life; but in the strengthening
lines of her face a womanly beauty was developing which caused even strangers to turn and glance
after her.

If Merwyn still retained some hold upon her thoughts and curiosity, so much could scarcely
be said of her sympathy. He had disappeared from the moment when she had harshly dismissed
him, and she was beginning to feel that she had been none too severe, and to believe that his
final words had been spoken merely from impulse. If he were amusing himself abroad, Marian,
in her intense loyalty, would despise him; if he were permitting himself to be identified with
his mother's circle of Southern sympathizers, the young girl's contempt would be tinged with
detestation. He had approached her too nearly, and humiliated her too deeply, to be readily
forgotten or forgiven.  His passionate outbreak at last had been so intense as to awaken strong
echoes in her woman's soul. If return to a commonplace fashionable life was to be the only
result of the past, she would scarcely ever think of him without an angry sparkle in her eyes.

After she had learned that her friends were in the field and therefore exposed to the dangers
of battle at any time, she had soliloquized, bitterly: "He promised to 'measure everything
by the breadth of my woman's soul.' What does he know about a true woman's soul? He has undoubtedly
found his selfish nature and his purse more convenient gauges of the world. Well, he knows
of one girl who cannot be bought."

Her unfavorable impression was confirmed one cold November morning. Passing down Madison Avenue,
her casual attention was attracted by the opening of a door on the opposite side of the street.
She only permitted her swift glance to take in the fact that it was Merwyn who descended the
steps and entered an elegant coupe driven by a man in a plain livery. After the vehicle had
been whirled away, curiosity prompted her to retrace her steps that she might look more closely
at the residence of the man who had asked her to be his wife. It was evidently one of the finest
and most substantial houses on the avenue.

A frown contracted. the young girl's brow as she muttered: "He aspired to my hand,--he, who
fares sumptuously in that brown-stone palace while such men as Mr. Lane are fortunate to have
a canvas roof over their heads. He had the narrowness of mind to half-despise Arthur Strahan,
who left equal luxury to face every danger and hardship. Thank Heaven I planted some memories
in his snobbish soul!"

Thereafter she avoided that locality.

In the evening, with words scarcely less bitter, she mentioned to her father the fact that
she had seen Merwyn and his home.

Mr. Vosburgh smiled and said, "You have evidently lost all compunctions in regard to your treatment
of the young fellow."

"I have, indeed. The battle of Antietam alone would place a Red Sea between me and any young
American who can now live a life of selfish luxury. Think how thousands of our brave men will
sleep this stormy night on the cold, rain-soaked ground, and then think of his cold-blooded
indifference to it all!"

"Why think of him at all, Marian?" her father asked, with a quizzical smile.

The color deepened slightly in her face as she replied: "Why shouldn't I think of him to some
extent? He has crossed my path in no ordinary way. His attentions at first were humiliating,
and he awakened an antipathy such as I never felt towards any one before. He tried to belittle
you, my friends, and the cause to which you are devoted. Then, when I told him the truth about
himself, he appeared to have manhood enough to comprehend it. His words made me think of a
man desperately wounded, and my sympathies were touched, and I felt that I had been unduly
severe and all that. In fact, I was overwrought, ill, morbid, conscience-stricken as I remembered
my own past life, and he appeared to feel what I said so awfully that I couldn't forget it.
I had silly dreams and hopes that he would assert his manhood and take a loyal part in the
struggle. But what has been his course? So far as I can judge, it has been in keeping with
his past. Settling down to a life of ease and money-making here would be little better, in
my estimation, than amusing himself abroad. It would be simply another phase of following his
own mood and inclinations; and I shall look upon his outburst and appeal as hysterical rather
than passionate and sincere."

Mr. Vosburgh listened, with a half-amused expression, to his daughter's indignant and impetuous
words, but only remarked, quietly, "Suppose you find that you have judged Mr. Merwyn unjustly?"

"I don't think I have done so. At any rate, one can only judge from what one knows."

"Stick to that. Your present impressions and feelings do you credit, and I am glad that your
friends' loyal devotion counts for more in your esteem than Merwyn's wealth. Still, in view
of your scheme of life to make the most and best of men of brains and force, I do not think
you have given the young nabob time and opportunity to reveal himself fully. He may have recently
returned from England, and, since his mother was determined to reside abroad, it was his duty
to establish her well before returning. You evidently have not dismissed him from your thoughts.
Since that is true, do not condemn him utterly until you see what he does. What if he again
seeks your society?"

"Well, I don't know, papa. As I feel to-night I never wish to see him again."

"I'm not sure of that, little girl. You are angry and vindictive. If he were a nonentity you
would be indifferent."

"Astute papa! That very fact perplexes me. But haven't I explained why I cannot help thinking
of him to some extent?"

"No, not even to yourself."

Marian bit her lip with something like vexation, then said, reproachfully, "Papa, you can't
think that I care for him?"

"Oh, no,--not in the sense indicated by your tone. But your silly dreams and hopes, as you
characterize them, have taken a stronger hold upon you than you realize. You are disappointed
as well as angry. You have entertained the thought that he might do something, or become more
in harmony with the last words he spoke to you."

"Well, he hasn't."

"You have not yet given him sufficient time, perhaps. I shall not seek to influence you in
the matter, but the question still presents itself: What if he again seeks your society and
shows a disposition to make good his words?"

"I shall not show him," replied Marian, proudly, "greater favor than such friends as Mr. Lane
and Mr. Strahan required. Without being influenced by me, they decided to take part in the
war. After they had taken the step which did so much credit to their manly courage and loyalty,
they came and told me of it. If Mr. Merwyn should show equal spirit and patriotism and be very
humble in view of the past, I should, of course, feel differently towards him. If he don't--"and
the girl shook her head ominously.

Her father laughed heartily. "Why!" he exclaimed; "I doubt whether in all the sunny South there
is such a little fire-eater as we have here."

"No, papa, no," cried Marian, with suddenly moistening eyes. "I regret the war beyond all power
of expression. I could not ask, much less urge, any one to go, and my heart trembles and shrinks
when I think of danger threatening those I love. But I honor--I almost worship--courage, loyalty,
patriotism. Do you think I can ever love any one as I do you? Yet I believe you would go to
Richmond to-morrow if you were so ordered. I ask nothing of this Merwyn, or of any one; but
he who asks my friendship must at least be brave and loyal enough to go where my father would
lead. Even if I loved a man, even if I were married, I would rather that the one I loved did
all a man's duty, though my heart was broken and my life blighted in consequence, than to have
him seeking safety and comfort in some eminently prudent, temporizing course."

Mr. Vosburgh put his arm around his daughter, as he looked, for a moment, into her tear-dimmed
eyes, then kissed her good-night, and said, quietly, "I understand you, Marian."

"But, papa!" she exclaimed, in sudden remorsefulness, "you won't take any risks that you can
honorably escape?"

"I promise you I won't go out to-night in search of the nearest recruiting sergeant," replied
her father, with a reassuring laugh.

CHAPTER XIX.

PROBATION PROMISED.

MERWYN had been in the city some little time when Marian, unknown to him, learned of his presence.
He, also, had seen her more than once, and while her aspect had increased his admiration and
a feeling akin to reverence, it had also disheartened him. To a degree unrecognized by the
girl herself, her present motives and stronger character had changed the expression of her
face. He had seen her when unconscious of observation and preoccupied by thoughts which made
her appear grave and almost stern, and he was again assured that the advantages on which he
had once prided himself were as nothing to her compared with the loyalty of friends now in
Virginia. He could not go there, nor could he explain why he must apparently shun danger and
hardship. He felt that his oath to his mother would be, in her eyes, no extenuation of his
conduct. Indeed, he believed that she would regard the fact that he could give such a pledge
as another proof of his unworthiness to be called an American. How could it be otherwise when
he himself could not look back upon the event without a sense of deep personal humiliation?

"I was an idiotic fool when I gave away manhood and its rights," he groaned. "My mother took
advantage of me."

In addition to the personal motive to conceal the fact of his oath, he had even a stronger
one. The revelation of his pledge would be proof positive of his mother's disloyalty, and might
jeopardize the property on which she and his sisters depended for support. Moreover, while
he bitterly resented Mrs. Merwyn's course towards him he felt that honor and family loyalty
required that he should never speak a word to her discredit. The reflection implied in his
final words to Marian had been wrung from him in the agony of a wounded spirit, and he now
regretted them. Henceforth he would hide the fetters which in restraining him from taking the
part in the war now prompted by his feelings also kept him from the side of the girl who had
won the entire allegiance of his awakened heart. He did not know how to approach her, and feared
lest a false step should render the gulf between them impassable. He saw that her pride, while
of a different character, was greater than his own had ever been, and that the consideration
of his birth and wealth, which he had once dreamed must outweigh all things else, would not
influence her in the slightest degree. Men whom she regarded as his equals in these respects
were not only at her feet but also facing the enemy as her loyal knights. How pitiable a figure
in her eyes he must ever make compared with them!

But there is no gravitation like that of the heart. He felt that he must see her again, and
was ready to sue for even the privilege of being tolerated in her drawing-room on terms little
better than those formerly accorded him.

When he arrived in New York he had hesitated as to his course. His first impulse had been to
adopt a life of severe and inexpensive simplicity. But he soon came to look upon this plan
as an affectation. There was his city home, and he had a perfect right to occupy it, and abundant
means to maintain it. After seeing Marian's resolute, earnest face as she passed in the street
unconscious of his scrutiny, and after having learned more about her father from his legal
adviser, the impression grew upon him that he had lost his chance, and he was inclined to take
refuge in a cold, proud reticence and a line of conduct that would cause no surmises and questionings
on the part of the world. He would take his natural position, and live in such a way as to
render curiosity impertinent.

He had inherited too much of his father's temperament to sit down in morbid brooding, and even
were he disposed toward such weakness he felt that his words to Marian required that he should
do all that he was now free to perform in the advancement of the cause to which she was devoted.
She might look with something like contempt on a phase of loyalty which gave only money when
others were giving themselves, but it was the best he could do. Whether she would ever recognize
the truth or not, his own self-respect required that he should keep his word and try to look
at things from her point of view, and, as far as possible, act accordingly. For a time he was
fully occupied with Mr. Bodoin in obtaining a fuller knowledge of his property and the nature
of its investment. Having learned more definitely about his resources he next followed the
impulse to aid the cause for which he could not fight.

A few mornings after the interview between Marian and her father described in the previous
chapter, Mr. Vosburgh, looking over his paper at the breakfast-table, laughed and said: "What
do you think of this, Marian? Here is Merwyn's name down for a large donation to the Sanitary
and Christian Commissions."

His daughter smiled satirically as she remarked, "Such heroism takes away my breath."

"You are losing the power, Marian," said her mother, irritably, "of taking moderate, common-sense
views of anything relating to the war.  If the cause is first in your thoughts why not recognize
the fact that Mr. Merwyn can do tenfold more with his money than if he went to the front and
'stopped a bullet,' as your officer friends express themselves? You are unfair, also. Instead
of giving Mr. Merwyn credit for a generous act you sneer at him."

The girl bit her lip, and looked perplexed for a moment. "Well, then," she said, "I will give
him credit. He has put himself to the inconvenience of writing two checks for amounts that
he will miss no more than I would five cents."

"Ask your father," resumed Mrs. Vosburgh, indignantly, "if the men who sustain these great
charities and the government are not just as useful as soldiers in the field. What would become
of the soldiers if business in the city should cease? Your ideas, carried out fully, would
lead your father to start to the front with a musket, instead of remaining where he can accomplish
the most good."

"You are mistaken, mamma. My only fear is that he will incur too many risks as it is. I have
never asked any one to go to the front, and I certainly would not ask Mr. Merwyn. Indeed, when
I think of the cause, I would rather he should do as you suggest. I should be glad to have
him give thousands and increase the volume of business by millions; but if he gave all he has,
he could not stand in my estimation with men who offer their lives and risk mutilation and
untold suffering from wounds. I know nothing of Mr. Merwyn's present motives, and they may
be anything but patriotic. He may think it to his advantage to win some reputation for loyalty,
when it is well known that his mother has none at all. Those two gifts, paltry for one of his
means, count very little in these days of immense self-sacrifice. I value, in times of danger,
especially when great principles are at stake, self-sacrifice and uncalculating heroism above
all things, and I prefer to choose my friends from among those who voluntarily exhibit these
qualities. No man living could win my favor who took risks merely to please me. Mr. Merwyn
is nothing to me, and if I should ever meet him again socially, which is not probable, I should
be the last one to suggest that he should go to the war; but if he, or any one, wishes my regard,
there must be a compliance with the conditions on which I give it. I am content with the friends
I have."

Mr. Vosburgh looked at his daughter for a moment as if she were fulfilling his ideal, and soon
after departed for his office. A few days after, when the early shadows of the late autumn
were gathering, he was interrupted in his preparations to return up town by the entrance of
the subject of the recent discussion.

Merwyn was pale and evidently embarrassed as he asked, "Mr.  Vosburgh, have you a few moments
of leisure?"

"Yes," replied the gentleman, briefly.

He led the way to a private office and gave his caller a chair.

The young man was at a loss to begin a conversation necessarily of so delicate a nature, and
hesitated.

Mr. Vosburgh offered no aid or encouragement, for his thought was, "This young fellow must
show his hand fully before I commit myself or Marian in the slightest degree."

"Miss Vosburgh, no doubt, has told you of the character of our last interview," Merwyn began
at last, plunging in medias res.

"My daughter is in the habit of giving me her confidence," was the quiet reply.

"Then, sir, you know how unworthy I am to make the request to which I am nevertheless impelled.
In justice I can hope for nothing. I have forfeited the privilege of meeting Miss Vosburgh
again, and I do not feel that it would be right for me to see her without your permission.
The motives which first led me into her society were utterly unworthy of a true man, and had
she been the ordinary society girl that I supposed she was, the results might have been equally
deserving of condemnation. I will not plead in extenuation that I had been unfortunate in my
previous associations, and in the influences that had developed such character as I had. Can
you listen to me patiently?"

The gentleman bowed.

"I eventually learned to comprehend Miss Vosburgh's superiority in some degree, and was so
fascinated by her that I offered marriage in perfect good faith; but the proposal was made
in a complacent and condescending spirit that was so perfectly absurd that now I wonder at
my folly. Her reply was severe, but not so severe as I deserved, and she led me to see myself
at last in a true light. It is little I can now ask or hope. My questions narrow down to these:
Is Miss Vosburgh disposed to give me only justice? Have I offended her so deeply that she cannot
meet me again? Had my final words no weight with her? She has inspired in me the earnest wish
to achieve such character as I am capable of,--such as circumstances permit. During the summer
I saw her influence over others. She was the first one in the world who awakened in my own
breast the desire to be different.  I cannot hope that she will soon, if ever, look upon me
as a friend; but if she can even tolerate me with some degree of kindliness and good-will,
I feel that I should be the better and happier for meeting her occasionally. If this is impossible,
please say to her that the pledge implied among the last words uttered on that evening, which
I shall never forget, shall be kept. I shall try to look at right and duty as she would."

As he concluded, Mr. Vosburgh's face softened somewhat. For a while the young man's sentences
had been a little formal and studied, evidently the result of much consideration; they had
nevertheless the impress of truth. The gentleman's thought was: "If Mr. Merwyn makes good his
words by deeds this affair has not yet ended. My little girl has been much too angry and severe
not to be in danger of a reaction."

After a moment of silence he said: "Mr. Merwyn, I can only speak for myself in this matter.
Of course, I naturally felt all a father's resentment at your earlier attentions to my daughter.
Since you have condemned them unsparingly I need not refer to them again. I respect your disposition
to atone for the past and to enter on a life of manly duty. You have my hearty sympathy, whatever
may be the result.  I also thank you for your frank words to me. Nevertheless, Miss Vosburgh
must answer the questions you have asked. She is supreme in her drawing-room, and alone can
decide whom she will receive there.  I know she will not welcome any one whom she believes
to be unworthy to enter. I will tell her all that you have said."

"I do not hope to be welcomed, sir. I only ask to be received with some degree of charity.
May I call on you to-morrow and learn Miss Vosburgh's decision?"

"Certainly, at any hour convenient to you."

Merwyn bowed and retired. When alone he said, with a deep sigh of relief: "Well, I have done
all in my power at present. If she has a woman's heart she won't be implacable."

"What kept you so late?" Mrs. Vosburgh asked, as her husband came down to dinner.

"A gentleman called and detained me."

"Give him my compliments when you see him again," said Marian, "and tell him that I don't thank
him for his unreasonable hours. You need more recreation, papa. Come, take us out to hear some
music to-night."

A few hours later they were at the Academy, occupying balcony seats.  Marian was glancing over
the house, between the acts, with her glass, when she suddenly arrested its motion, and fixed
it on a lonely occupant of an expensive box. After a moment she handed the lorgnette to her
father, and directed him whither to look. He smiled and said, "He appears rather pensive and
preoccupied, doesn't he?"

"I don't fancy pensive, preoccupied men in these times. Why didn't he fill his box, instead
of selfishly keeping it all to himself?"

"Perhaps he could not secure the company he wished."

"Who is it?" Mrs. Vosburgh asked.

She was told, and gave Merwyn a longer scrutiny than the others.

"Shall I go and give him your compliments and the message you spoke of at dinner?" resumed
Mr. Vosburgh, in a low tone.

"Was it Mr. Merwyn that called so late?" she asked, with a sudden intelligence in her eyes.

Her father nodded, while the suggestion of a smile hovered about his mouth.

"Just think of it, Marian!" said Mrs. Vosburgh. "We all might now be in that box if you had
been like other girls."

"I am well content where I am."

During the remainder of the evening Mr. Vosburgh observed some evidences of suppressed excitement
in Marian, and saw that she managed to get a glimpse of that box more than once. Long before
the opera ended it was empty. He pointed out the fact, and said, humorously, "Mr. Merwyn evidently
has something on his mind."

"I should hope so; and so have you, papa. Has he formally demanded my hand with the condition
that you stop the war, and inform the politicians that this is their quarrel, and that they
must fight it out with toothpicks?"

"No; his request was more modest than that."

"You think I am dying with curiosity, but I can wait until we get home."

When they returned, Mr. Vosburgh went to his library, for he was somewhat owlish in his habits.

Marian soon joined him, and said: "You must retire as soon as you have finished that cigar.
Even the momentous Mr. Merwyn shall not keep us up a second longer. Indeed, I am so sleepy
already that I may ask you to begin your tale to-night, and end with 'to be continued.'"

He looked at her so keenly that her color rose a little, then said, "I think, my dear, you
will listen till I say 'concluded;'" and he repeated the substance of Merwyn's words.

She heard him with a perplexed little frown. "What do you think I ought to do, papa?"

"Do you remember the conversation we had here last June?"

"Yes; when shall I forget it?"

"Well, since you wish my opinion I will give it frankly. It then became your ambition to make
the most and best of men over whom you had influence, if they were worth the effort. Merwyn
has been faulty and unmanly, as he fully admits himself, but he has proved apparently that
he is not commonplace. You must take your choice, either to resent the past, or to help him
carry out his better purposes. He does not ask much, although no doubt he hopes for far more.
In granting his request you do not commit yourself to his hopes in the least."

"Well, papa, he said that I couldn't possess a woman's heart and cast him off in utter contempt,
so I think I shall have to put him on probation. But he must be careful not to presume again.
I can be friendly to many, but a friend to very few. Before he suggests that relation he must
prove himself the peer of other friends."

CHAPTER XX.

"YOU THINK ME A COWARD."

MERWYN had not been long in the city before he was waited upon and asked to do his share towards
sustaining the opera, and he had carelessly taken a box which had seldom been occupied. On
the evening after his interview with Mr. Vosburgh, his feeling of suspense was so great that
he thought he could beguile a few hours with music. He found, however, that the light throng,
and even the harmonious sounds, irritated, rather than diverted, his perturbed mind, and he
returned to his lonely home, and restlessly paced apartments rendered all the more dreary by
their magnificence.

He proved his solicitude in a way that led Mr. Vosburgh to smile slightly, for when that gentleman
entered his office, Merwyn was awaiting him.

"I have only to tell you," he said, in response to the young man's questioning eyes, "that
Miss Vosburgh accedes to your request as you presented it to me;" and in parting he gave his
hand with some semblance of friendliness.

Merwyn went away elated, feeling that he had gained all for which he had a right to hope. Eager
as he was for the coming interview with Marian, he dreaded it and feared that he might be painfully
embarrassed. In this eagerness he started early for an evening call; but when he reached his
destination, he hesitated, passing and repassing the dwelling before he could gather courage
to enter. The young girl would have smiled, could she have seen her former suitor, once so
complacent and condescending. She certainly could not complain of lack of humility now.

At last he perceived that two other callers had passed in, and he followed them, feeling that
their presence would enable both him and the object of his thoughts to take refuge in conventionalities.

He was right in this view, for with a scarcely perceptible increase of color, and a polite
bow, Marian received him as she would any other mere calling acquaintance, introduced him to
the two gentlemen present, and conversation at once became general. Merwyn did not remain long
under constraint. Even Marian had to admit to herself that he acquitted himself well and promised
better for the future. When topics relating to the war were broached, he not only talked as
loyally as the others, but also proved himself well informed. Mrs.  Vosburgh soon appeared
and greeted him cordially, for the lady was ready enough to entertain the hopes which his presence
again inspired. He felt that his first call, to be in good taste, should be rather brief, and
he took his departure before the others, Marian bowing with the same distant politeness that
had characterized her greeting. She made it evident that she had granted just what he had asked
and nothing more. Whether he could ever inspire anything like friendliness the future only
would reveal. He had serious doubts, knowing that he suffered in contrast with even the guests
of the present evening. One was an officer home on sick-leave; the other exempted from military
duty by reason of lameness, which did not extend to his wit and conversational powers. Merwyn
also knew that he would ever be compared with those near friends now in Virginia.

What did he hope? What could he hope? He scarcely knew, and would not even entertain the questions.
He was only too glad that the door was not closed to him, and, with the innate hopefulness
of youth, he would leave the future to reveal its possibilities. He was so thoroughly his father's
son that he would not be disheartened, and so thoroughly himself that the course he preferred
would be the one followed, so far as was now possible.

"Well?" said Mr. Vosburgh, when Marian came to the library to kiss him good-night.

"What a big, long question that little word contains!" she cried, laughing, and there was a
little exhilaration in her manner which did not escape him.

"You may tell me much, little, or nothing."

"I will tell you nothing, then, for there is nothing to tell. I received and parted with Mr.
Merwyn on his terms, and those you know all about. Mamma was quite gracious, and my guests
were polite to him."

"Are you willing to tell me what impression he made in respect to his loyalty?"

"Shrewd papa! You think this the key to the problem. Perhaps it is, if there is any problem.
Well, so far as WORDS went he proved his loyalty in an incidental way, and is evidently informing
himself concerning events. If he has no better proof to offer than words, his probation will
end unfavorably, even though he may not be immediately aware of the fact. Of course, now that
I have granted his request, I must be polite to him so long as he chooses to come."

"Was he as complacent and superior as ever?"

"Whither is your subtlety tending? Are you, as well as mamma, an ally of Mr. Merwyn? You know
he was not. Indeed, I must admit that, in manner, he carried out the spirit of his request."

"Then, to use your own words, he was 'befittingly humble'? No, I am not his ally. I am disposed
to observe the results of your experiment."

"There shall be no experimenting, papa. Circumstances have enabled him to understand me as
well as he ever can, and he must act in view of what he knows me to be. I shall not seek to
influence him, except by being myself, nor shall I lower my standard in his favor."

"Very well, I shall note his course with some interest. It is evident, however, that the uncertainties
of his future action will not keep either of us awake."

When she left him, he fell into a long revery, and his concluding thoughts were: "I doubt whether
Marian understands herself in respect to this young fellow. She is too resentful. She does
not feel the indifference which she seeks to maintain. The subtle, and, as yet, unrecognized
instinct of her womanhood leads her to stand aloof. This would be the natural course of a girl
like Marian towards a man who, for any cause, had gained an unusual hold upon her thoughts.
I must inform myself thoroughly in regard to this Mr.  Merwyn. Thus far her friends have given
me little solicitude; but here is one, towards whom she is inclined to be hostile, that it
may be well to know all about. Even before she is aware of it herself, she is on the defensive
against him, and this, to a student of human nature, is significant. She virtually said to-night
that he must win his way and make his own unaided advances toward manhood. Ah, my little girl!
if it was not in him ever to have greater power over you than Mr. Strahan, you would take a
kindlier interest in his efforts."

If Marian idolized her father as she had said, it can readily be guessed how much she was to
him, and that he was not forgetful of his purpose to learn more about one who manifested so
deep an interest in his daughter, and who possibly had the power to create a responsive interest.
It so happened that he was acquainted with Mr.  Bodoin, and had employed the shrewd lawyer
in some government affairs. Another case had arisen in which legal counsel was required, and
on the following day advice was sought.

When this part of the interview was over, Mr. Vosburgh remarked, casually, "By the way, I believe
you are acquainted with Mr. Willard Merwyn and his affairs."

"Yes," replied the lawyer, at once on the alert.

"Do your relations to Mr. Merwyn permit you to give me some information concerning him?"

The attorney thought rapidly. His client had recently been inquiring about Mr. Vosburgh, and,
therefore, the interest was mutual. On general principles it was important that the latter
should be friendly, for he was a secret and trusted agent of the government, and Mrs. Merwyn's
course might render a friend at court essential. Although the son had not mentioned Marian's
name, Mr. Bodoin shrewdly guessed that she was exerting the influence that had so greatly changed
the young man's views and plans. The calculating lawyer had never imagined that he would play
the role of match-maker, but he was at once convinced that, in the stormy and uncertain times,
Merwyn could scarcely make a better alliance than the one he meditated. Therefore with much
apparent frankness the astute lawyer told Mr. Vosburgh all that was favorable to the young man.

"I think he will prove an unusual character," concluded the lawyer, "for he is manifesting
some of his father's most characteristic traits," and these were mentioned. "When, after attaining
his majority, the son returned from England, he was in many respects little better than a shrewd,
self-indulgent boy, indifferent to everything but his own pleasure, but, for some reason, he
has greatly changed. Responsibility has apparently sobered him and made him thoughtful. I have
also told him much about my old friend and client, his father, and the young fellow is bent
on imitating him. While he is very considerate of his mother and sisters, he has identified
himself with his father's views, and has become a Northern man to the backbone. Even to a degree
contrary to my advice, he insists on investing his means in government bonds."

This information was eminently satisfactory, and even sagacious Mr.  Vosburgh did not suspect
the motives of the lawyer, whom he knew to be eager to retain his good-will, since it was in
his power to give much business to those he trusted.

"I may become Merwyn's ally after all, if he makes good his own and Mr. Bodoin's words," was
his smiling thought, as he returned to his office.

He was too wise, however, to use open influence with his daughter, or to refer to the secret
interview. Matters should take their own course for the present, while he remained a vigilant
observer, for Marian's interest and happiness were dearer to him than his own life.

