Such being the state of affairs--a great mass of new credit and currency based on securities--it
is clear that our currency has been deprived for the time being of that direct relation with
its gold basis that used in former time to regulate its volume according to world prices and
our international trade position. As the Committee says, "It is not possible to judge to what
extent legal tender currency may in fact be depreciated in terms of bullion. But it is practically
certain that there has been some depreciation, and to this extent therefore the gold standard
has ceased to be effective." Very well, then, what has to be done to get back to the old state
of things under which there was a more or less automatic check on the creation of credit and
the issue of currency? This check worked by a system which was elastic and simple. It was not
entirely automatic, because its working had to be controlled by the Bank of England, which,
by the action of its discount rate, could, more or less, quicken or check the working of the
machine. Legal tender currency could only be increased by imports of gold; and exports of gold
reduced the available amount of legal tender currency; and since a stock of legal tender currency
was essential to meet the demands upon them that bankers made possible by creating credits,
there was thus an Indirect and variable connection between the country's gold stock and the
extent to which bankers would think it prudent to multiply credits. If credits were multiplied
too fast, our currency was depreciated in value as compared with those of other countries and
the exchanges went against us and gold either was exported or began to look as if it might
be exported. If it was exported the legal tender basis of credit was reduced and the creation
of credit was checked. If the Directors of the Bank of England thought it inadvisable that
gold should be exported they could, by raising the rate of discount and taking artificial measures
to control the supply of credit, produce, without the actual loss of gold, the effects which
that loss would have brought about.

The keystone of the system was the rigid link between legal tender currency and gold. This
was secured by the provisions of the Bank Act of 1844, which laid down that above a certain
line--which was before the war roughly £18-1/2 millions--every Bank of England note issued
should have gold behind it, pound for pound. In other words, the Bank of England note was,
for practical purposes, a bullion certificate. The legal limit on the fiduciary issue (that
is, the issue of £18-1/2 millions against securities, not gold) could only be exceeded by a
breach of the law. The many critics of our banking system seized on this hard-and-fast restriction
and accused it of making our system inelastic as compared with the German arrangement, under
which the legal limit could at any time be exceeded on payment of a tax or fine on any excess
perpetrated. These critics might have been right if legal tender currency had been the only,
or even the predominant, means of payment in England. But, as every office boy knows, it was
not. Legal tender--gold and Bank of England notes--was hardly ever seen in commercial and financial
transactions on a serious scale. We paid, sometimes, our retail purchases of goods and services
in gold; and Bank notes were a popular mode of payment on racecourses and in other places where
transactions took place between people who were not very certain of one another's standing
or good faith. But the great bulk of payments was made in the cheque currency which our bankers
had developed outside of the law and could create as fast as prudence--and an eye to the supply
of legal tender which every holder of a cheque had a right to demand--allowed them to do so.
While cheques provided the currency of commerce, another form of "money" was produced, again
without any restriction by the Act, by the pleasant convention which caused a credit in the
Bank of England's books to be regarded as "cash" for balance-sheet purposes by the banks. These
advantages gave the English system a freedom and elasticity, in spite of the strictness of
the law that regulated the issue of paper currency, that enabled it to work in a manner that,
judged by the test of practical results, had one great advantage over that of any of the rival
centres. It alone in days before the war fulfilled the functions of an international banker
by being ready at all times and without question to pay out the gold that was, in the last
resort, the final means of settling international balances.

It is the object of Lord Cunliffe's Committee to restore as quickly as possible the system
which, has thus been tried by the test of experience, "After the war," they say in their Report,
"our gold holdings will no longer be protected by the submarine danger, and it will not be
possible indefinitely to continue to support the exchanges with foreign countries by borrowing
abroad. Unless the machinery which long experience has shown to be the only effective remedy
for an adverse balance of trade and an undue growth of credit is once more brought into play
there will be very grave danger of a credit expansion in this country and a foreign drain of
gold which might jeopardise the convertibility of our note issues and the international trade
position of the country.... We are glad to find that there was no difference of opinion among
the witnesses who appeared before us as to the vital importance of these matters." The first
measure that they put forward as essential to this end is the cessation at the earliest possible
moment of Government borrowings. "A large part of the credit expansion arises, as we have shown,
from the fact that the expenditure of the Government during the war has exceeded the amounts
which they have been able to raise by taxation or by loans from the actual savings of the people.
They have been obliged therefore to obtain money through the creation of credits by the Bank
of England and the Joint Stock banks, with the result that the growth of purchasing power has
exceeded that of purchasable goods and services." It is therefore essential that as soon as
possible the State should not only live within its income but should begin to reduce indebtedness,
especially the floating debt, which, being largely held by the banks, has been a cause of credit
creation on a great scale. "The shortage of real capital must be made good by genuine savings.
It cannot be met by the creation of fresh purchasing power in the form of bank advances to
the Government or to manufacturers under Government guarantee or otherwise, and any resort
to such expedients can only aggravate the evil and retard, possibly for generations, the recovery
of the country from the losses sustained during the war." With these weighty words the Committee
brushes aside a host of schemes that have been urged for putting everything right by devising
new machinery for the manufacture of new credit. That new credits will be needed for industry
after war is obvious, but what else are our banks for, if not to provide it? They can only
be set free to provide it on the scale required if, by the necessary reduction of the floating
debt, they are relieved of the locking up of their funds in Government securities, which has
been one of the bad results of our bad war finance.

It goes without saying that the Committee does not recommend the continuance in peace of the
differential rates for home and foreign money that were introduced as a war measure with a
view to lowering a rate at which the Government borrowed at home for war purposes. It would
evidently be too severe a strain on human nature to attempt to work such a system, except in
war-time, when the artificial conditions by which the market was surrounded made it both feasible
and desirable to do so. With regard to the note issue, the Committee proposes a return to the
old system and a strictly drawn line for the amount of the fiduciary note issue, the whole
note issue (with the exception of the few surviving private note issues) being put into the
hands of the Bank of England, all notes being payable in gold in London only and being made
legal tender throughout the United Kingdom. These suggestions are subject to any special arrangements
that may be made with regard to Scotland and Ireland. An early resumption of the circulation
of gold for internal purposes is not contemplated. The public has become used to paper money,
which is in some ways more convenient and cheaper; and the luxury of a gold circulation is
one that we can hardly afford at present. Gold will be kept by the Bank of England in a central
reserve, and all the other banks should, it is suggested, transfer to it the whole of their
present holdings of the metal. In order to give the Bank of England a closer control of the
bullion market the Committee thinks it desirable that the export of gold coin or bullion should,
in future, be subject to the condition that such coin or bullion had been obtained from the
Bank for the purpose. This measure would give the Bank of England a very close control of the
bullion market, so close that there is a danger that if this control were too rigorously exercised,
gold that now comes to this country might be diverted, with a view to more advantageous sale,
to other centres. The amount of the fiduciary issue is a matter that the Committee leaves open
to be determined after experience of post-war conditions. They "think that the stringent principles
of the Act (of 1844) have often had the effect of preventing dangerous developments, and the
fact that they have had to be temporarily suspended on certain rare and exceptional occasions
(and those limited to the earlier years of the Act's operation, when experience of working
the system was still immature) does not," in their opinion, invalidate this conclusion. So
they propose that the separation of the Issue or Banking Departments should be maintained,
but that in future if an emergency arose requiring an increase in the amount of fiduciary currency,
this should not involve a breach of the law, but should be made legal (as it is now under the
Currency and Bank Notes Act of 1914), subject to the consent of the Treasury.

It is not proposed at present to secure the circulation of paper instead of gold by legislation.
The Committee considers that "informal action on the part of the banks may be expected to accomplish
all that is required." If necessary, however, it points out that the circulation of gold could
be prevented by making the notes convertible, at the discretion of the Bank of England, into
coin or bar gold. The amount which, in the opinion of the Committee, should be aimed at for
the central gold reserve is £150 millions (a sum which is already almost in sight on its figures
quoted above); and "until this amount has been reached and maintained concurrently with a satisfactory
foreign exchange position for a period of at least a year," it thinks that the policy of reducing
the uncovered note issue "as and when opportunity offers" should be consistently followed.
How this opportunity is going to "offer" is not made clear; but presumably a reflow of notes
from circulation can only happen through a fall in prices or a reduction in bank deposits by
the liquidation of advances made to the Government, directly or indirectly, by the banks.

Concerning the difficult problem of replacing the Bradbury notes by Bank of England notes of
£1 and 10s., an ingenious suggestion is made by the Committee. It observes that there would
be some awkwardness in transferring the issue to the Bank of England before the future dimensions
of the fiduciary issue have been arrived at; and it suggests that during the transitional period
any expansion in Treasury notes that may take place should be covered, not as now, by Government
securities, but by Bank of England notes taken from the Bank. By this means any demands for
new currency would operate in the normal way to reduce the reserve of the Banking Department,
"which would have to be restored by raising money rates and encouraging gold imports," and
so a step would have been taken to getting back to a business basis in the currency system
and away from the profligate printing-press policy of the war period.

Such are the suggestions made by this distinguished body for the restoration of our currency.
Little has been said against them in the way of serious criticism, but their conservative tendency
and the fact that they practically recommend a return to the status quo has caused some impatience
among the financial Hotspurs who proposed to begin to build a new world by turning everything
upside down. In matters of finance this process is questionable, interesting as the result
would undoubtedly be. To get to work on tried lines and then, when once industry and finance
have recovered their old activity, to amend the machine whenever it is creaking seems to be
a more sensible plan than to delay our start until we have fashioned a new heaven and earth,
and then very probably find that they do not work. If the machine is to be set moving, it can
only be done by close co-operation between the Bank of England and the other banks which have
grown by amalgamation into institutions the size of which seem likely to make the task of central
control more difficult than ever. On this important point the Committee is curiously silent.
But it recommends the adoption of a suggestion made by a Committee of Bankers, who proposed
that banks should in future be required "to publish a monthly statement showing the average
of their weekly balance-sheets during the month." (Will this requisition apply to the Bank
of England?) This is a welcome suggestion as far as it goes, but unless something is done by
co-operative action to make the Bank rate more automatic in its influence on the actions of
the other banks, the difficulty of making it effective seems likely to be considerable.

Getting the currency right is a most important matter for the future of our financial position.
Another is the question of our debt to foreigners. Most of this debt we owe to America, and
we only owe it because we had to finance our Allies. We surely ought to be able to arrange
with America that anything that we have to do in giving our Allies time before asking for repayment
they also should do for us--within limits, say, up to thirty years. In view of all that they
have made and we have lost by this war waged for the cause of all mankind, this would seem
to be reasonable concession on America's part.

A table published week by week by the Economist shows that from August 1, 1914, to November
9, 1918, the Government paid out £8612 millions sterling. From this we have to deduct an estimate
of the amount that the Government would have spent if there had not been a war, so that we
are at once landed in the realm of conjecture. The last pre-war financial year saw an expenditure
of £198 millions, and it is safe to assume that this figure would have swollen by a few millions
a year if peace had continued, so that we may take at least £860 millions from the above total
as normal peace expenditure for the 4-1/2 years. This gives us £7752 millions as the gross
cost of the war, as far as the period of actual fighting is concerned. From this figure, however,
we are able to make some big deductions. There are loans to Allies and Dominions, and some
other much more readily realisable assets than these. We do not know the actual figure of the
loans to Allies and Dominions during the war period, because they are not included in the weekly
financial statements. The amount that we borrow abroad is set out week by week--at least, that
is believed to be the meaning of the cryptic item "Other Debt"--but the amount that we lend
to Allies and Dominions is hidden away in the Supply Services or somewhere, and we only get
occasional information about it from the Chancellor in the course of his speeches on the Budget
or on Votes of Credit. In his last Vote of Credit speech, on November 12, 1918, Mr Bonar Law
gave the chief items of the loans to Allies, and a very interesting list it was. The totals
up to October 19, 1918, were £1465 millions to Allies and £218-1/2 millions to Dominions. The
Allies were indebted to us as follows:--Russia, £568 millions; France, £425 millions; Italy,
£345 millions; smaller States, £127 millions.[1]

[Footnote 1: Parliamentary Debates, Vol. 110, No. 114, p. 2560.]

Some of these debts may be written off at once, and that cheerfully, seeing that they have
been lent brothers-in-arms who have been hit much harder than we have by the war, and had nothing
like our financial strength. The question is, what figure ought we to put on this asset in
deducting it from gross war expenditure in order to arrive at a guess at the real cost? We
take our loans to Dominions, of course, as good to the last penny. Mr Bonar Law, in his Budget
speech last April, took our loans to Allies at half their face value. Strict bookkeeping would
probably demand a lower figure than 50 per cent.; but let us follow the ex-Chancellor's example
and take loans to Allies, which we will estimate at £1480 millions up to November 9th, as good
for £740 millions, and loans to Dominions at £220 millions up to the same date, a total of
£960 millions, to be deducted from gross war cost. Concerning £740 millions of this sum, however,
there is a certain amount of doubt. No one questions for a moment the solvency of France and
Italy, but in view of the pressure that the war has exercised on their producing power, and,
in the case of France, the complication added by the uncertainties of the position in Russia,
in which French investors are so deeply interested, one cannot feel sure that they will be
able at once to make interest payments. Much will depend on the sums that they are able to
recover from Germany against their bill of damages, on which more anon. But in any case it
seems likely that a general scheme of interest funding, as between the Allies, may have to
be adopted for some years to come.

As to the other assets that we have to set against our gross expenditure during the fighting
period, they were enumerated by the Chancellor in his Budget speech last April in the following
terms;--

  Balances in agents' hands, debts
    due, foodstuffs, etc                      £375 millions.
  Land, securities, buildings and ships         97    "
  Stores in Munitions Department
    (cost price 325 millions) taken at         100    "
  Additions this financial year                100    "
  Arrears of taxation                          500    "
                                               ---
               Total[1]                      £1172

[Footnote 1: Parliamentary Debates, Vol. 105, No. 33, pp. 698-699.]

It will be remembered that in his Budget speech the Chancellor was proceeding on the assumption
that the war would last till March 31st next--the date at which our financial year ends--and
would then be convenient enough to stop. Happily for us, the valour of our soldiers and those
of our Allies, the splendid success of our Fleet and our merchantmen In bringing over American
troops and their food and equipment with astonishing speed, and the straightforward diplomacy
of President Wilson, combined to achieve victory nearly five months earlier than the most sanguine
had dared to expect. With the very pleasant result--though it is a small matter when compared
with the end of the killing of the best of our manhood--that the financial position is very
greatly improved. With regard to the figures given above, it should be observed that the "debts"
are advances to Dominions, but on quite a different basis from our loans to them, being money
owed by them against goods and services supplied.[1] They and the balances in the hands of
agents are both as good as gold. Concerning the others, one is entitled at first sight to feel
a good deal of scepticism, since such articles as land, buildings, ships and stores, bought
or built by Government during a war, are likely to find an extremely sluggish demand when the
war is over. However, Mr Bonar Law assured the House that his valuation of these amounts had
been arrived at on a conservative basis, and, what is better still, in his Vote of Credit speech
on November 12th, he was able to state that revised estimates had shown that their value would
be "far greater" than he had previously expected. So perhaps we are entitled to take them at
£1300 millions.

[Footnote 1: Parliamentary Debates, Vol. 105, No. 33, p. 698.]

If so, we get the following results for the cost of the fighting period:--

  Total Government expenditure,
    August 1, 1914, to November
    9, 1918                                      £8612 millions.
  Less estimate of normal peace expenditure        860    "
                                                 -----
                                                  7752    "
  Less Loans to Dominions     220 millions.
  Less Loans to Allies
    (half face value)         740    "
  Realisable assets          1300    "
                             ----
                                                  2260    "
                                                  ----
  Net cost of period                             £5492    "

If war cost would be good enough to cease with the fighting we should thus now be able to see,
more or less, how we stand. During the fighting period the Government raised by taxation the
sum of £2120 millions,[1] from which we have again to deduct £860 millions as an estimate for
normal peace taxation, if the war had not happened, leaving £1350 millions as the net war taxation,
and £4142 millions as the net addition to debt from the war.

[Footnote 1: Economist, Nov. 16, 1918.]

But, of course, there are still some large and uncertain sums to come in to both sides of the
account. There is the cost of maintaining our Army and Navy during the armistice period, the
cost of demobilisation, and the cost of putting an end to war munitions contracts running for
many months ahead, holders of which will have to be compensated. Who has enough assurance to
venture on an estimate of the cost of these items? Shall we guess them at something between
£1000 and £1500 millions? And when we have made this guess are we at the end of the war's cost?
Ought we not to include pensions to be paid, and if so, at what figure? Fifty millions a year
for thirty years? If so, there is another £1500 millions. And interest on war debt, and for
how long?

On the other side of the balance-sheet, the only asset that has not yet been included in the
calculation is the sum that we are going to receive from Germany, Some cheery optimists think
that it is possible for us and for the Allies to make Germany pay the whole of our war cost.
If so, we have halcyon days ahead, for not only shall we be able to repay the whole war debt
but also to pay back to the taxpayer all the £1350 millions that he produced during the war,
unless, as seems more likely, the Government finds other uses, or abuses, for the money, and
sets its motley horde of wasters to work again. But this problem, of course, is not going to
arise. It would not be physically possible for Germany to pay the whole of the Allies' war
cost, except in the course of many generations, and, moreover, the Allies have bound themselves
not to make any such demand by the rider that they added to President Wilson's peace terms,
in giving their assent to them as the basis on which they were prepared to make peace. So that
the question of how much we can get out of Germany is complicated by the further uncertainty
of the size of the bill for damages that we can present. It will be big enough. We know that
the Germans have sunk 8-1/2 million tons of British ships during the war. As to the price at
which, for "restoration" purposes, we shall value those ships and their cargoes, and all the
civilian property damaged by aircraft and bombardment, this is a matter which it would be obviously
improper to discuss; but we may be sure that the bill will mount up to many hundreds of millions,
and it remains to be seen whether, after Belgium and France have presented their account, it
will be possible for us to secure payment even for all the civilian damage that we have suffered.

[Footnote 1: Times, November 7, 1918.]

[Footnote 2: Times, December 6, 1918.]

It thus appears that the net cost of the fighting period has been somewhere in the neighbourhood
of £5500 millions, taking our loans to Allies at half their face value; and that the armistice
and demobilisation period is likely to cost another £1000 to £1500 millions more, to say nothing
of pensions and debt charge that will go on for years (unless the supporters of Levy on Capital
have their way and wipe the debt out), and that against this further expenditure we can set
whatever sum is recovered from Germany.

Seeing that our total pre-war debt was £710-1/2 millions, or, omitting what the Government
returns call the Other Capital Liabilities, £653-1/2 millions, these figures of war debt and
war cost are at first sight somewhat appalling. But there is no reason why they should terrify
us, and there are several reasons why they are, when looked at with a discriminating eye, much
less frightening than when we first set them out.

In the first place, we have always to remember that these figures are in after-war pounds,
and that the after-war pound is, thanks to the profligate use by our war Governments of the
printing-press and the banking machine, just about half the size, when measured in actual buying
power, of the pre-war pound. Any one who pays £100 in taxes to-day thereby surrenders claims
to about the same amount of goods and service as he did if he paid £50 in taxes before the
war. So that in making any comparison between the position now and the position then we have
to divide the figures of to-day by two.

In the second, we need not be misled by the Jeremiahs who tell us that now that we have won
the war we have before us the task of paying for it. This is not true, or true only to a small
extent--to the extent, that is to say, to which we shall, when all these assets and liabilities
have been settled up and balanced, be afflicted with a foreign debt. Let us leave this question
on one side for the time being, and consider what the position really is with regard to that
part of the war's cost that has been raised at home. In so far as that has been done, the war
cost has been raised by us while the war went on. In fact, all the war cost has to be raised
by somebody while the war goes on, because the war is fought with stuff and services produced
at the time and paid for at the time. But when Americans lend us money to pay for some of the
stuff that they send us, they pay at the time and we, or our posterity, have to pay them back
later on; this is the only way in which we can make posterity pay for the war, and then it
only means that our posterity pays America's. It is not possible to carry on war with wealth
that is going to be produced some day. The effort of self-sacrifice that war demands has to
be made by somebody during its progress--otherwise the war could not be fought.

That effort of self-sacrifice we have already made in so far as we have paid for our war cost
out of money raised at home. That money has been raised in three ways--by taxation, by borrowing
saved money, and by inflation. When it is raised by taxation the sacrifice is obvious, and,
in nearly all cases, inevitable: we pay our larger war taxes and so we have less to spend on
ourselves, and so we go without things. A few people raise money to pay taxes during war by
borrowing or drafts on capital, but they are probably so exceptional that their case need not
be considered. We transfer our buying power to the Government to be used for the fighters,
and so we set free the labour and material that used to go in providing us with comforts and
pleasures; our competition for goods is reduced, and so the Government is able to get what
it needs out of the nation's production, which is pro tanto relieved of our demand. The same
thing happens when the Government gets money for the war by borrowing money that we save. We
reduce expenditure, and transfer buying power to the State and diminish our demand on the nation's
production, or that of its foreign supplies. If the whole war cost had been met by these two
methods there need have been little or no increase in prices here, and the cost of the war
would have been about half what it has been. Of the two methods, taxation is obviously the
cleaner, simpler and more honest. By borrowing, the State hires those who have a margin to
put part of it at the disposal of the State at a time of national crisis, instead of taking
it from them outright. As most of the taxation involved by the subsequent debt charge falls
on those who have a margin (as it obviously should) the result is that the people who subscribed
to the loans are afterwards taxed to pay themselves interest and to repay themselves their debt.

This subsequent taxation falls on them all alike in proportion to their ability to pay, or
would if the income tax was more equitably imposed; those who have subscribed their fair share
to the loans have an offset, in the interest that they receive, against the taxation; those
who subscribed less are properly penalised, those who subscribed more are properly benefited.
If only the income tax did not make the position of fathers of families so unjust, the whole
arrangement would look, at first sight, quite fair, though rather absurd and clumsy, involving
all this subscribing and taxing and paying back instead of an outright tax and having done
with it. But in fact a very grave inequity is involved by this business of borrowing for war,
and laid upon just the people whom we ought, above all, to treat most fairly, namely, those
who fight for us. The soldiers and sailors risk their lives for a pittance during the war,
while their brothers and sisters and cousins and uncles and aunts, left at home in security
and comfort, earn bloated profits and wages, and put them, or part of them, into War Loans;
then when the fighters come back, very likely with their business and connection ruined or
lost, they are expected to contribute to the taxation that goes into the pockets of debt-holders.

Inflation, the third method of paying for war, again produces the same effect of a reduction
of consumption by the civilian population, but in a roundabout manner, which works at first
without being noticed, and so is particularly dear to the adroit politician. By it nobody transfers
buying power to the Government, but the Government and the bankers, who are generally most
reluctant accessories to the transaction, between them create new buying power, which, coming
into a restricted market for goods in addition to all the existing buying power, simply forces
everybody to consume less because the money in their pockets fetches less goods owing to the
rise in prices.

The evil attached to this system is obvious enough. It amounts to a tax on the general consumer
in proportion to his consumption, and so it lays the sacrifice on the shoulders of those least
able to bear it. No Government would have the courage to impose such a tax openly and frankly.
All the warring Governments in varying degrees have used this roundabout device of imposing
it, very likely being quite unaware of the fraud on the consumer that they were perpetrating.
Our own Government, in fact, having first added by this process to a rise in the price of bread,
then reduced it by a special subsidy--a pleasant touch of Alice in Wonderland finance. This
mode of taxing by raising prices hits, of course, all those who live on fixed incomes and salaries
and wages. Those who can strike, or take more out of the consumer, can evade it, and so it
falls on the weakest shoulders and incidentally produces friction, discontent and dangerous
suspicion. But even it works at the time when it happens. Each creation of new buying power
gives the Government, for the moment, control of so much in goods and services at the expense
of the consumer; but when once the new buying power has been distributed by the State's payments
it is in the hands of the nation as a whole. If the process ceased, the nation would still
have control of the whole of its output, which is its income, though the injustice involved,
to those who are not strong enough to resist the effects of higher prices, would continue.

Thus, whatever means--straightforward or devious--are used for financing war, it is paid for
while it goes on by the warring country if the financing is done at home, or by its foreign
creditors if the financing is done abroad. And it is, necessarily, almost entirely paid for
out of income, that is, out of current production. It is curious to find that many people still
seem to think that the whole cost of the war has come out of capital. Luckily for us it could
not be done, or only to a very small extent. Our capital mostly consisted of railways, factories,
ships, roads, agricultural land, machinery, houses and other things that could not be taken
and shot out of a gun. These things we have still got, and though many of them are not in such
good shape as they were, some of them are much better equipped and organised. We have drawn
on our stocks of materials and goods--how far it is impossible to say; we have lost 8-1/2 million
tons of shipping by war losses; in the meantime we have built, bought and captured 5-1/2 millions
of new tonnage, and we have a claim against the Germans for such tonnage. On capital account
we have suffered by wear and tear in so far as our upkeep has been neglected owing to lack
of labour during the war, and by depletion of materials and stocks, and also, of course, by
the fact that if the war had not happened, we should, if pre-war calculations were correct,
have put some £1700 millions into new investments at home and abroad during the 4-1/4 years
of fighting and some more hundreds of millions during the after-war period of Government borrowing
and restriction on private investment. But a very large part of the money that went into victory
would otherwise have gone not to capital account but into the pleasant frivolities, embellishments
and vulgarities that made life an amusing absurdity in days before the war.

If, then, the war sacrifice was made during the war, in so far as its cost was raised at home,
how far is it true that we are now faced with the business of paying for it? If taxation were
equitable it would only be to the extent that those who ought to have made the sacrifice and
did not, will in future have to pay interest to those who did, or their representatives. So
that the first thing we have to do is to make taxation equitable, that is, lay it on the taxpayer
in proportion to his ability to pay. There will still remain the injustice to those who have
fought for us, which might be cured, or amended, by special exemptions. With taxation on a
really sound basis no further sacrifice would be involved by the debt charge, and no diminution
of the nation's wealth or consuming power, which will depend, as always, on its output of goods
and services; but only a transfer of consuming power from taxpayers to debt-holders in accordance
with the sacrifice made by the latter during the war. What we produce as a nation we shall
consume as a nation, subject to the extent that we financed the war during its course by operations
abroad.

These operations were twofold. We sold to foreigners part of our holdings of foreign securities,
thereby and to this extent paying for war cost out of capital--out of the investments made
by ourselves and our forbears in America and elsewhere. Mr Bonar Law, in a recent interview
in the Observer, stated that we had sent back to the United States practically the whole of
our holdings of American securities to be sold or pledged as collateral for loans, and that
the value of them was three billion dollars--£600 millions sterling. Any of them that have
only been pledged can presumably be used to meet the loans raised as they fall due, and so
will lighten our burden in the matter of repayment. These loans raised abroad are the second
mode of foreign financing. By it we had raised up to November 9th nearly £1300 millions, as
shown by the Economist's table, and to that extent we have pledged our future production and
that of our posterity, to meet the annual service for interest and repayment. On the other
hand, all this sum and more we have (as shown above) lent to our Allies and Dominions, so that
the ex-Chancellor was well justified in his boast that we had only borrowed to finance our
Allies, and that we had been self-sufficient for our own war cost.[1]

[Footnote 1: Budget Speech, Parliamentary Debates, vol. 105, No. 33.]

In other words, all that we needed for the war we were able to produce ourselves, or to obtain
in exchange for our produce and assets. On paper, therefore, our position as a creditor country
is only impaired by our sales of securities. But that is only so on paper. In fact, the loans
that we have raised abroad are good debts that have to be met to the last penny, and are a
first charge on our future output, but the advances that we have made to our Allies, much harder
hit than we are by the war, are assets on which we cannot depend. They were taken in our balance-sheet
above at half their face value, but there is much to be said for writing them off altogether
and tearing up the I.O.U.'s of our foreign brothers-in-arms. Their need is greater than ours,
it would be little satisfaction to receive interest and repayment from them, and the payment
due from them, involving difficult problems of taxation for them, would not help the good relations
with them which, we hope, may be a lasting effect of the war. And such an act of renunciation
on our part would do something towards a restoration of the spirit with which we entered on
war, a spirit which has been seriously demoralised during its course, largely owing to the
results of our faulty finance, which encouraged profiteering in all classes.

In any case, there is our position. We have a big debt to meet at home and abroad, and we are
weakened on capital account by foreign indebtedness, wear and tear of plant and dimunition
of stocks and materials. Wear and tear and depletion we can soon make good if we set to work
and work hard, if our bureaucracy takes away the fetters of its restrictions and controls (instead
of making further additions to the "Black List" even after the armistice!), and if our ruling
wiseacres will refrain from trying to stimulate industry by taxing raw and half-raw materials.
For the debt charge many pleasant and simple fancy strokes are suggested. The Levy on Capital
is popular, especially with those who do not own any, but its advocacy is by no means confined
to them. Mr Pethick Lawrence has published a persuasive little book about it, but I cannot
see that he meets the objections to it. These are, the difficulty of valuation, the fact that
in many cases it would have to be paid by instalments, and so would be merely another form
of income tax, its sparing of the waster and penalising of the saver, and, consequently, the
grave danger that it would check accumulation and so dry up the springs of capital. Mr Stilwell
has produced a "Great Plan to Pay for the War," by which all the belligerents and neutrals
who have been involved in expense by the war would receive World Bonds from an International
Congress for what they have spent owing to the war, and would then pay one another any international
debts by exchanging these World Bonds, and deal with the home debt by paying it off in new
currency raised on the World Bonds. But, surely, to pay off war debt with a huge addition to
currency, making war's inflation many times worse, would be a disastrous beginning to that
new era which is alleged to be dawning.

By hard work, sparing consumption of luxuries, and a big industrial output, we can soon make
the debt charge look smaller and smaller as compared with our aggregate income. Our foreign
debt we can only meet by shipping goods and rendering services. But since it was all raised
to be lent to our Allies and our lending of it was essential to a victory which has rid mankind
of a terrible menace, it is surely reasonable that our creditors should not press for repayment
in the first few difficult years, but should fund our short-dated debts into loans with twenty-five
or thirty years to run. As to the home debt, we can only lighten its burden on the taxpayer
by making taxation equitable. To this end reform of the income tax is an urgent need. We have
to lighten its pressure much more effectively on those who are bringing up families, and by
collecting it through employers make it an effective and just tax on those of the working class
whose earnings and family liabilities make them fairly subject to it.

Everyone has read, and most of us have forgotten, the great passage in Macaulay's history which
describes the evils of a disordered currency.

From some of the evils thus dazzlingly described we are happily free in these times. We are
not cursed with a currency composed of coins which are good, bad and indifferent, with the
result that the public gets the bad and indifferent while the nimble bullion dealers absorb
and export the good. There is nothing to choose between one piece of paper and another, and
all that is wrong with them is that there are too many of them. But the general result as it
affects the labourer who wants to purchase a pot of beer or anyone else who wants to buy anything
is very much the same. A bit of metal that is called a shilling has about the value of a pre-war
sixpence and a bit of paper that is called a Bradbury fetches half as much as the pound of
five years ago. Compared with what other peoples are suffering from the same disease arising
from the same surfeit of money in one form or another, this nuisance that we are enduring is
not too terribly severe. It has entailed great hardship on a class that is small in number,
namely, those who have to live on fixed incomes. The salary-earner and the rentier have borne
the brunt, while the wage-earner and the profit-maker have been able to expand their earnings,
in paper, at least to a point at which the depreciation of currency have left them no worse
off. Seeing that the wage-earners are those who do the dreariest and dirtiest jobs, and that
the profit-makers are those who take the risks of industry and the enormous responsibility
of organising enterprise, they are the classes whom it is clearly most desirable to encourage.
The rentier in these days gets less than no sympathy, but we make a great mistake if we think
that we can with impunity crush him between the upper and nether millstone of fixed income
and rising prices. With his help we have equipped industry at home and abroad. We can, if we
choose, by depreciating the currency still further, lessen still more the reward that we pay
him for that benefit. He may kick, but he cannot abolish the equipment with which he has already
provided industry. But if we make his life too hard he can strike like the rest of us, and
by refusing to provide for any further expansion in industrial equipment, he can hold up production
until we have devised some new method of laying up capital. Currency depreciation is good for
the debtor and bad for the creditor; if it goes too far it kills the creditor and reduces business
to chaos.

We are a very long way from the chaos to which many of our Continental neighbours have already
reduced their monetary systems; but there is fortunately a very general feeling that we are
a country with a reputation and a prestige on this point; and the business world is growing
restive concerning the delay on the part of those responsible in putting an end to a state
of things which may have been justified by the war's exigencies (though there is much to be
said for the view that in fact it only added to the war's difficulties) but is now clearly
as out of date as the censorship, which, like it, nevertheless, continues to flourish. This
state of things arises from the arrangement tinder which an unlimited supply of legal tender
currency can be manufactured by the Government, which encouraged to continue the system by
the fact that each note issued is in effect a loan to itself without interest. At the meeting
of Barclays Bank on January 27th, Mr. Goodenough demanded that the issue of currency notes
by the Government should be stopped forthwith, and that if it were necessary to provide more
currency it would be better for the banks to be allowed to issue notes themselves. This suggestion
involves, of course, a complete reversal of the principles on which our monetary system has
grown up, since it has long been based on a note-issuing monopoly in the hands of the Bank
of England. But these are topsy-turvy days, in which greyheaded precedent is very justly at
a heavy discount; and Mr Goodenough's suggestion very practically gets over a big difficulty
that stands in the way of stopping the stream of Bradburys. This difficulty lies in the fact
that if the banks were pulled at by their customers for currency and could not supply them
with Bradbury notes, they would be forced to take notes from the Bank of England, with a bad
effect on the appearance of its reserve. If the business of issuing notes were put into the
hands of the clearing banks, their power to do so would be limited by the extent of their assets,
or of such of their assets as were thought fit to rank as backing for their notes. In other
words, the note-issuing business would once more have to be regulated on banking principles
and controlled by the price asked, for advances, instead of expressing the helplessness and
improvidence of an impecunious and invertebrate Government. In this manner the new departure
might be a convenient halfway-house on the way from chaos back to sanity. But probably it is
too revolutionary and goes too straight in the teeth of the Bank of England's privilege to
receive much practical consideration; and there is the question whether the public would take
the new paper readily and whether it could be made legal tender.

Sir Edward Holden, in one of those masterly surveys of world finance with which he now instructs
the shareholders of the London Joint City and Midland Bank, assembled at their annual meeting,
gave much of his attention to an attack on the report of Lord Cunliffe's Committee on Currency.
This was only to be expected, since the Committee had made recommendations on lines which were
largely conservative and did not embody any of the reforms or changes which had been previously
advocated by Sir Edward. Being on this occasion chiefly critical, he did not make very clear
in his latest speech the precise proposals that he favours.

As will be remembered, the Cunliffe Committee recommended that the division of the Bank of
England into an Issue Department and a Banking Department, should be retained; that the old
principle by which above a certain fixed limit all notes should be backed by gold, should also
be retained, but that if at any time a breach of this rule should be found necessary it should
be possible, with the consent of the Treasury, and that Bank rate "should be raised to a rate
sufficiently high to secure the earliest possible retirement of the excess issue." Since it
was formerly only possible to exceed the limit on the fiduciary issue by a breach of the law,
under the Chancellor of the Exchequer's promise to get an indemnity for it from Parliament,
and since Treasury tradition insisted on a 10 per cent. Bank rate whenever such a breach was
permitted or contemplated, it will be seen that the Cunliffe Committee proposed some considerable
modifications in our system and hardly justified Sir Edward's assertion that it "proposed that
the Bank should continue to work under the Act of 1844 as heretofore."

At first sight there seems to be a good deal of difference between Sir Edward's ideal and Lord
Cunliffe's, but is not the difference to a great extent superficial? Whether the Bank be divided
into two departments, each presenting a separate account, or its whole business be regarded
as one and stated in one account, seems to be rather a trifling question. And the arguments
put forward for their several views by the two champions are not strikingly convincing. Sir
Edward wants only one account, because he thinks the consequence would be a stronger reserve
and fewer changes in bank rate. But a mere change of bookkeeping such as the amalgamation of
the two accounts would not make a half-pennyworth of difference to the extent of the Bank's
responsibilities and its ability to meet them, and it is on variations in these factors that
movements in bank rate are in most cases decided. On the other hand, Lord Cunliffe and his
colleagues argue that the main effect of putting the two departments into one would be to place
deposits with the Bank of England in the same position as regards convertibility into gold
as is now held by the note. On this point Sir Edward's answer is telling: "In reply to this
statement, I say that the depositors at the present time can always get gold by drawing out
notes from the reserve and taking gold from the Issue Department. There seems to be little
difference between the depositors attacking gold direct and attacking the gold through the
notes in the reserve. If the Bank cannot pay the notes when demanded the whole machinery stops."
Quite so. The notion that the holder of a Bank of England note has now a stronger hold over
the Bank's gold than the depositor seems to be baseless. He can exercise his hold more quickly
perhaps, though even this is doubtful. Since banknotes are not legal tender at the Bank of
England, it is not quite clear that the depositor would even have to take the trouble to go
first to the Banking Department for notes and then to the Issue Department for gold. He might
be able to insist on gold in immediate payment of his deposit. Still less convincing is the
Committee's argument that "the amalgamation of the two departments would inevitably lead in
the end to State control of the creation of banking credit generally." Their report might have
explained why this should be so, for to the ordinary mind the chain of consequence is not apparent.
On the whole it is hard to see much good or harm to be achieved by changing the form of the
Bank return. It might make the Bank's position look stronger, but it could not make it really
stronger. Nor would it really impair the strength of the note-holder's position as against
the depositor, because even now there is no essential difference. It would substitute a more
businesslike and simple statement for a form of accounts which is cumbrous and stupid and Early
Victorian--a relic of an age which produced the crinoline, the Crystal Palace and the Albert
Memorial. On the other hand, to alter a statistical record merely for the sake of simplicity
and symmetry is questionable. Unless we are getting more and truer information, it is a pity
to make comparisons between one year and another difficult by changing the form in which figures
are given.

A more essential difference between the two policies lies in Sir Edward's advocacy of a ratio--three
to one--between notes and gold, and the Committee's support of the old fixed line system. By
the latter, if gold comes in, notes to the same extent can be created, and if gold goes out
notes to the amount of the export have to be cancelled. Under Sir Edward's policy the influx
and efflux of gold would have an effect on the note issue which would be three times the amount
of the gold that came in or went out. This at least is the logical effect of his statement
that "the notes should not exceed three times the gold or the cash balance." This law does
not seem to be quite consistent with his view that the fixed ratio of gold to notes may be
lowered by the payment of a tax; but presumably the tax would come into operation before the
three to one part was reached, and at three to one there would be a firm line drawn. On this
assumption the Committee's argument is a very strong one. "If," says its report (Cd. 9182,
p. 8), "the actual note issue is really controlled by the proportion, the arrangement is liable
to bring about very violent disturbances. Suppose, for example, that the proportion of gold
to notes is actually fixed at one-third and is operative. Then, if the withdrawal of gold for
export reduces the proportion below the prescribed limit, it is necessary to withdraw notes
in the ratio of three to one. Any approach to the conditions under which the restriction would
become actually operative would then be likely to cause even greater apprehension than the
limitation of the Act of 1844." Certainly if, during a foreign drain, for every million of
gold that went out, another two millions of credit, over and above, had to be cancelled, it
is easy to imagine a very jumpy state of mind in Lombard Street and on the Stock Exchange.
Sir Edward and the Committee seem to be agreed as to a limit on the note issue, but of the
two limiting systems the old one advocated by the Committee, though apparently more severe,
would seem to have much less alarming possibilities behind it.

A point on which the commercial world does not seem to have made up its mind, however, is whether
there should be a limit at all. Under the old Act there was a limit which could only be passed
by a breach of the law. Under the Cunliffe proposal the limit could be passed with the consent
of the Treasury. Sir Edward has not told us of what machinery he proposes for the passing of
the limit which he lays down; but in view of the great apprehension that an approach to the
limit point would, as shown by the Committee, produce, it is clear that there would have to
be a way round. In Germany there is no limit; you pay a tax on the excess issue and go on merrily.
In America it would seem that the German system has been taken for a model. In his speech on
January 29th Sir Edward quoted Senator Robert Owen, who was the principal pioneer of the Federal
Reserve Bill through the Senate, as follows:--"The central idea of the system is elastic currency
issued against commercial paper and gold, expanding and contracting according to the needs
of commerce.... It is of great importance that the volume of these notes should contract when
the commerce of the country does not require the notes to be circulation, and the reserve board
can require them to be returned by imposing a tax upon the issue.... Under the reserve system
a financial panic is impossible. People will not hoard currency nor hoard gold when they know
that they can get currency or get gold when required.... America no longer believes a financial
panic possible, and therefore the business men, being perfectly assured as to the stability
of credits, do not hesitate to enter manufacturing and commercial enterprises from which they
would be deterred under old conditions of unstable credit." Well, let us hope the Senator is
right and that America is right in believing that a financial panic is no longer possible there.
But one cannot help feeling that such a belief may be rather dangerous in the minds of people
so ready to take rose-coloured views as our American cousins. The Federal Reserve system has
worked beautifully in a period in which American finance has had nothing to do but rake in
the enormous profits of American production at the expense of warring Europe and lend part
of them, to be spent in America, to the Allied belligerents. It may work equally well if and
when the problem to be faced is different, but it will be interesting to see--for those of
us who live to see--what sort of a tax will be needed to "require" America, in one of its holiday
moods, to return currency that it thinks it needs and the Federal Reserve Board regards as
redundant.

Another point on which Sir Edward lays great stress, in his attack on the Bank Act of 1844
and the Committee which supports its main principles, is the beauty of the bill of exchange
as backing for a note issue, as opposed to Government securities. "There is," he says, "no
automatic system for the redemption of currency notes as would be the case if they were issued
against bills of exchange, which in due course would have to be paid off." Again, "it seems
to me that notes should not be issued against Government securities which may or may not be
paid off, but against bills of exchange which must be met at due date." This advantage about
a bill of exchange is a very real one to the individual holder who can always put himself in
funds by letting the contents of his portfolio "run off"; but is there much in it as a safeguard
against excessive issue of currency in times of exuberance? In such times bills that fall due
are pretty sure to be replaced by new ones drawn against fresh production--since over-production
is a common symptom of commercial exuberance--or against a resale of the goods on which the
original bills were based. As long as anyone who can show produce can be certain to get credit
and currency, the notion that the maturing of bills of exchange can be relied to restrict currency
expansion within safe limits is surely a dangerous assumption. The principle of a fixed limit,
to be broken in case of real need, but only after some ceremony has been gone through giving
notice of the fact that a crisis has been reached, seems rather to be required by the psychology
of speculative mankind. But even if Sir Edward's preference for bills of exchange as backing
for notes has all the merits that he claims that is no reason for urging the repeal of the
Bank Act to secure their use. Because the Bank Act does not forbid it: it merely says, "there
shall be transferred, appropriated and set apart by the said governor and company to the Issue
Department of the Bank of England securities to the value of," etc. It is the practice of the
Bank to put Government securities into the Issue Department, but the terms of the Act do not
compel them to do so, and if an excess issue were needed they would seem to be empowered to
put any bills that they discounted into the assets held against the note issue. On the whole
the terms of the Act leaving them freedom in the matter, except with regard to the "Government
debt" of £11 millions, which is specially mentioned as to be transferred to the Issue Department,
seem to be preferable to a special stipulation in favour of bills of exchange.

But the most important difference between Sir Edward Holden and the Cunliffe Committee seems
to be in their attitude towards the gold reserve and the relation between the Bank of England
and the rest of the items that compose the London money market. The Committee, working to restore
the conditions which made our market the centre of the world's finance, endeavoured to give
back the control of the central gold reserve to the Bank of England by suggesting, among other
things, that the other banks should hand over their gold to it. They omitted to discuss the
serious question of the greater difficulty that the Bank is likely to find in future in controlling
the price of money in the market, owing to the huge size that the chief clearing banks have
now reached. But a central gold reserve under central control was evidently the object at which
they aimed. Sir Edward will have none of this. He says that if this were done the position
of the Joint Stock banks would be weakened, though he does not explain why, since they would
obviously hold notes in place of their gold and so would be able to meet their customers' demands,
now that the latter are accustomed to the use of notes for pocket money. He points out that
"the gold which was held by the Joint Stock banks before the war proved most useful.... At
the beginning of the war the banks paid out gold, satisfied the demands of their customers
for small currency, and thus eased the situation until currency notes became available." He
seems to have forgotten that the banks, or most of them, refused to part with their gold, paid
their customers in Bank of England notes which, being for £5 at the smallest, were of little
use for pocket money, and so drove them to the Bank to get gold; and we had to have a prolonged
bank holiday and a moratorium. Sir Edward is in favour of three gold reserves, one to be held
by the Government, one by the clearing banks, and one by the Bank of England. If there were
differences between the three controllers of the reserve at a time of crisis the consequence
might be disastrous.

In view of the admiration expressed by Sir Edward for the new American system which is so clearly
based on central control it is rather illogical that he should be so strongly in favour of
independence on this side of the water. His opinion is that "the policy of the Joint Stock
banks ought to be to make themselves independent of the Bank of England by maintaining large
reserves in their vaults." Independence and individualism are a great source of strength in
most fields of financial activity, but in view of the great problems that our money market
has to face there seems to be much to be said for co-operation and central control, at least
until we have got back to a normal state of affairs with regard to the foreign exchanges.

A contrast between liberty and licence is a pleasant alliterative commonplace beloved by political
writers, especially those with a reactionary bias. In the light of recent events it seems to
be going to take a new meaning. Licence will soon be understood, not as the abuse of liberty,
to which democracies are prone, but as a new weapon by which our bureaucracy will do away with
liberty by tightening the shackles on our economic and other activities. For imports and exports
the licence system is already familiar; if the mines and railways are to be nationalised we
may have to be licensed before we can burn coal or go away for a week-end; if the Eugenists
have their way a licence will be necessary before we can propagate the species; and before
we can get a licence to do anything we shall have to go through an exasperating process of
filling in forms innumerable, inconsistent, overlapping and incomprehensible. Finance is the
latest victim of this melancholy tendency. Under the guise of an attempt to give greater freedom
to it a system has been introduced which makes a Treasury licence necessary, with penalties
under the Defence of the Realm Act, for doing many things which have hitherto been possible
for those who were prepared to forgo the privilege of a Stock Exchange quotation. Let the story
be told in official language, as uttered through the Press Bureau, on February 24th, in "Serial
No. C. 10917."

"In view of the changed conditions resulting from the conclusion of the armistice, the Treasury
has had under consideration the arrangements which have been in force during the war for the
control of New Issues of Capital.

"The work of scrutinising proposals for new Capital Issues has been performed during the war
by the Capital Issues Committee, the object being to refuse sanction for all projects not immediately
connected with the successful prosecution of the war. The decisions of the Treasury, taken
upon the advice of this Committee, have, however, not had any binding force, beyond what is
derived from the emergency regulations of the Stock Exchange, which forbids dealings in any
new Issues which have not received Treasury consent.

"While it is not possible under existing financial conditions to dispense altogether with the
control of Capital Issues, it has clearly become necessary to reconsider the principles upon
which sanction has been given or refused in order that no avoidable obstacles may be placed
in the way of providing the Capital necessary for the speedy restoration of Commerce and Industry,
and the development of public utility services.

"In view of the numbers of the proposals for fresh Issues of Capital which are to be expected,
it is necessary to provide further machinery for dealing with them and for making the decisions
upon them effective.

"A regulation under the Defence of the Realm Act has accordingly been made prohibiting all
Capital Issues except under licence from the Treasury, and the Capital Issues Committee has
been reconstituted with new Terms of Reference, which are as follows:--

"'To consider and advise upon applications received by the Treasury for licences under Defence
of the Regulation (30 F) for fresh Issues of Capital, with a view to preserving Capital during
the reconstruction period for essential undertakings in the United Kingdom, and to preventing
any avoidable drain upon Foreign Exchanges by the export of Capital, except where it is shown
to the satisfaction of the Treasury that special circumstances exist.'

"It will be an instruction to the Committee that, in order that applications may be dealt with
expeditiously and to enable oral evidence to be given in support of them when desired by the
applicant, that the Committee should sit by Panels consisting of three members, the decision
of the Panels to be subject to confirmation by the full Committee.

"All applications for licences most be made, in the first instance, in writing on a Form which
can be obtained from the Secretary of the Capital Issues Committee, Treasury, S.W. 1.

"Before any application is refused the Committee will give the applicant an opportunity of
giving oral evidence in support of his case."

The notice then proceeded to recite the terms of D.O.R.A. 30 F, of which more anon. Next day
came a supplementary announcement, "Serial No. C 10938," as follows:--

"With reference to the recent announcement in the Press that all applications for Treasury
licences must be made in writing on a form obtainable from the Secretary of the Capital Issues
Committee, Treasury, S.W. 1, delay will be avoided if intending applicants will state which
of the following forms they require:--

    "Form No. 1. Issue by a proposed New Company to start a fresh
    business.

    "Form No. 2. Issue by an Existing Company (other than for the
    purpose of capitalising profits).

    "Form No. 3. Issue by an Existing Company for the purpose of
    capitalising profits.

    "Form No. 4. Conversion of a Firm into a Limited Company which does
    Not involve the introduction of fresh capital.

    "Form No. 5.

"If none of the above Forms appears to be applicable (as, e.g., in amalgamations, sub-divisions
of shares, etc.), a statement of the facts should be submitted in writing."

Before we go on to consider the new regulation, 30 F, let us try to see what is the real effect
of the document above quoted. It was evidently intended to be a relaxation of the control of
finance. And yet it was thought necessary to give legal force and attach penalties to regulations
that have worked during the war quite sufficiently well to secure a much stricter control than
is now required. The explanation of this apparent inconsistency is probably to be found in
the desire of the Government to meet a grievance of the Stock Exchange. Hitherto the only penalty
that befell those who made a new issue without getting Treasury sanction was that the securities
issued could not be dealt in on the Stock Exchange. The practical effect of this was that those
who acted without Treasury sanction could only issue securities subject to this serious drawback,
and so an effective but not altogether prohibitive bar was put on the process. If this bar
was not strong enough in war-time it ought clearly to have been strengthened long ago; if it
was strong enough, then why should it be strengthened now?

From the Stock Exchange point of view it is easy to make out a good case for working through
licence and penalty rather than through the banning, of the securities effected, from sanction
for dealings. By thus being used as an official weapon the Stock Exchange penalised itself
and its members. By saying "no security not sanctioned by the Treasury shall be dealt in here,"
its Committee restricted business in the House and drove it outside. This grievance was obvious
and was plentifully commented on during the war. If the Committee had pressed the point vigorously
it could probably have forced the Government long ago to abolish the grievance by making all
dealings in new issues that appeared without Treasury sanction illegal and liable to penalty.
A patriotic readiness to fall in with the Government's desires was probably the reason why
the Stock Exchange refrained from embarrassing it, during the war, by too active protests against
a grievance that was then more or less real; though it should be noted that even if the grievance
had been amended, the Stock Exchange would not necessarily have got any more business, but
would only have succeeded in stopping a very moderate amount of business that was being done
by outsiders. But when all is said that can be said for the justice of the case that can be
made by the Stock Exchange, the question still arises whether it was advisable, at a time when
relaxation of restrictions was desirable in the interests of the revival of industry, to draw
tighter bonds which had been found tight enough to do their work. That the Stock Exchange should
suffer from limitations from which outside dealers were exempt was certainly a hardship. On
the other hand, since the armistice there has been a considerable expansion in Stock Exchange
business. Oil shares, Mexican securities, industrial shares, insurance shares, and others in
which capitalisation of reserves and bonus issues have been used as an effective lever for
speculation, have enjoyed spells of considerable activity. With this revival in progress, in
spite of many obvious bear points, such as industrial unrest at home, Bolshevism abroad, the
continuance of heavy expenditure by the Government, and the hardly slackened growth of the
national debt, it seems to have been scarcely necessary in the interests of the House to have
made regulations which, though perhaps demanded by abstract justice, imposed new ties on enterprise
at a time when complete freedom, as far as it was consistent with the best interests of the
country, was most of all desirable.

How far, we have next to ask, is it necessary for the best interests of the country to restrict
the freedom of capital issues? If we look back at the terms of reference under which the reconstituted
Committee is to work, we see that the officially expressed objects are (1) preserving capital
for essential undertakings in the United Kingdom, and (2) preventing any avoidable drain upon
Foreign Exchanges by the export of capital. There is certainly much to be said for both these
objects. When we lend money to foreigners we give them the right to draw on us now in return
for their promises to pay some day; in other words, we make an invisible import of foreign
securities, and in the present state of our trade balance all imports, whether visible or invisible,
need careful watching. It is also very evident that at a time when capital is scarce there
is much to be said for keeping it for essential industries, especially those which produce
necessaries and goods for export, and not allowing it to be swept up by borrowers who are going
to devote it to making expensive fripperies on which big profits are probable.

There remains a very big other side to both these questions. All over the world there is a
demand for goods which have not been produced, or only in greatly reduced quantities, during
the war. This demand is only effective in so far as willing buyers can pay; some of them have
the needful cash in hand or waiting in London or elsewhere to be drawn on, but a great number
of would-be buyers want to be financed, and will have to be financed by somebody if the needs
that they feel are to be translated into actual purchases. In other words, in order that the
wheels of industry are to be set turning as fast as they might, if they had a full chance,
somebody has to lend freely. Now, it is surely most of all important in the national interest
that those wheels should begin spinning as fast as possible, and the question is whether we
are more likely to serve that interest best by keeping a meticulous eye on the course of exchange
and buttoning up our pockets to foreign borrowers or by leaving capital free to seek its market,
knowing that every time we give the foreigner the right to draw on us we stimulate our export
trade, because his drawing must finally mean a demand on us for something--goods, securities
or gold--and goods are what people are in these times most anxious to take. If we are going
to leave all the financing to be done by America and fear to import promises to pay lest they
should be followed by demands on our gold, shall we not be rather in the position of Barry
Lyndon, who was given a gold piece by his mother when he went out into the world, with strict
injunctions always to keep it in his pocket and never to change it? Regard for our gold standard
is most necessary, but the gold standard is not an end in itself, but merely an important part
of a machine which only exists to serve our industry. If we are so careful of the machine,
which is a mere subsidiary, that we check the industry which it is there to serve, we shall
be like the dandy who got wet through because he had not the heart to unfurl his beautifully
rolled-tip umbrella.

Again, it looks very sound and sensible to keep capital for purposes that are essential, but,
on the other hand, it is so enormously important to set industry going as fast as possible
that almost any one who will do anything in that direction is entitled to be given a chance.
In war-time, when labour and materials were so scarce that they could not turn out all the
munitions that were necessary, such a restriction was clearly inevitable. Now, when labour
and materials are becoming more plentiful, and the scarce commodity is the pluck and enterprise
that will take the risks involved by getting to work on a peace basis, it may be argued that
any one who will take those risks, whatever be the stuff or services that he proposes to produce,
should be encouraged rather than checked. It is again a question of the balance of advantage.
If we are going to be so careful in seeing that capital is not put to a wrong use that we take
all the heart out of those who want to make use of it, we shall do more harm than good. If
by leaving capital free to go into any enterprise that it fancies we can give a start to industry
and promote a spirit of courage and enterprise among its captains, it will be well worth while
to do so at the expense of seeing a certain amount of capital going into the production of
articles that the community might, if it made a more reasonable use of its purchasing power,
very well do without. The same question arises when we consider the desire of the Government,
not expressed in the above statement, but very freely admitted by Mr Bonar Law, in discussing
it in the House of Commons, to keep capital to be lent to it rather than expended in, perhaps
unnecessary, industry. Here, again, it is clearly in the interest of the taxpayer that Government
loans should be raised on the most favourable terms possible. But if, in order to do so, we
starve industry of capital that it needs, and so check the production on which all of us, Government
and citizens alike, ultimately have to live, we shall be scoring an immediate advantage at
the expense of future progress--spoiling a possibly brilliant break by putting down the white
ball for a couple of points.

There is thus a good deal to be said for setting capital free, before we have even arrived
at the most serious objection to regulating it under Treasury licence. This objection is the
exasperation, delay and uncertainty involved by this control. Even if we had an ideally wise
and expeditious body to decide about capital issues it might not be the best thing to set it
to work. But when we remember that in order to see that the wrong sort of issue is not made,
all issues will have to pass through the terribly slow-working process of official selection
before the necessary licence is finally granted, it begins to look still more likely that we
should do well to run the risk of letting a few goats through the gate, rather than keep all
the sheep waiting outside for months, with the probable result that many of them may lose altogether
their chance of final salvation. It will be noted from the official statement that the arbitrary
methods of the old Committee are to be modified. It has long been a by-word among those who
had dealings with it; they abused it in quite sulphurous language and were wont to quote it
as an example of all that bureaucratic tyranny is and should not be, thereby doing some injustice
to our bureaucrats, seeing that the Committee was manned not by officials but by business men,
clothed pro hac vice in the thunder of Whitehall. The new Committee is to sit by panels of
three, so as to expedite matters, and so as to allow applicants the privilege of giving oral
evidence. This is an innovation that will save some exasperation, but it will hardly accelerate
matters, especially as the decision of the panels will be subject to confirmation by the full
Committee, so that all the work will have to be done twice over. There is thus much reason
to fear that delay, so fatal in business matters, will be an inevitable offspring of the efforts
of the new Committee, and the list of different forms on which applications are to be made,
given above, shows that all the paraphernalia of red tape will dominate the proceedings.

Now for the terms of the new Regulation under the Defence of the Realm Act.

    "1. The following regulation shall be inserted after Regulation 30
    EE:--

    "30 F. The following provisions shall have effect in respect of
    new capital issues and to dealings in securities issued for the
    purpose of raising capital:

    "(1) No person shall, except under and in pursuance of a licence
    granted by the Treasury--

    "(a) issue, whether for cash or otherwise, any stock, shares or
    securities; or

    "(b) pay or receive any money on loan on the terms express or
    implied that the money is to be or may be applied at some future
    date in payment of any stock, shares or securities to be issued at
    whatever date to the person making the loan; or

    "(c) sub-divide any shares or Debentures into shares or Debentures
    of a smaller denomination, or consolidate any shares or Debentures
    of a larger denomination; or

    "(d) renew or extend the period of maturity of any securities; or

    "(e) purchase, sell or otherwise transfer any stock, shares
    or securities or any interest therein, or the benefit of any
    agreement conferring a right to receive any stock, shares or
    securities, if the stock, shares or securities were issued,
    sub-divided or consolidated, or renewed or the period of maturity
    thereof extended, or the agreement was made, as the case may be,
    at any time between the 18th day of January, 1915, and the 24th
    day of February, 1919, and the permission of the Treasury was not
    obtained to the issue, sub-division, consolidation, renewal or
    extension or the making of the agreement, as the case may be.

    "(2) No person shall except under and in pursuance of a licence
    granted by the Treasury--

    "(a) buy or sell any stock, shares or other securities except for
    cash or when the purchase or sale takes place in any recognised
    Stock Exchange, subject to the rules or regulations of such
    exchange.

    "(b) buy or sell any stock, shares or other securities which have
    not remained in physical possession in the United Kingdom since
    the 30th September, 1914.

    "(3) A licence granted under this regulation may be granted
    subject to any terms and conditions specified therein.

    "(4) If any person acts in contravention of this regulation, or
    if any person to whom a licence has been granted under this
    regulation subject to any terms or conditions fails to comply with
    these terms or conditions, he shall be guilty of a summary offence
    against these regulations.

    "(5) In this regulation the expression 'securities' includes
    Bonds, Debentures, Debenture stock, and marketable securities."

It will be seen at once that the terms of this document, on any interpretation of them, go
far beyond the intentions expressed in what may be called the official preamble and in the
new Committee's terms of reference. One of the clauses seems, with all deference to its august
composers, to be merely silly. This is (1)(c) forbidding sub-division of securities. If a £10
share is split into ten £1 shares this operation cannot make the smallest difference to the
supply of capital for essential industries or cause any drain on the Foreign Exchanges. I am
assured by those who have delved into the official intention that the reason for the objection
of the old Committee to splitting schemes, on which this new prohibition is based, was that
splitting made shares more marketable and popular and so more likely to compete with War Bonds.
But a mere sale of shares, split small and so popularised, does not absorb any capital. That
only happens when, money is put into some new form of industry. If A, who holds ten £20 shares,
is enabled to dispose of them to B because they are split into 200 £1 shares, then, A instead
of B has got the money and has to invest it in something. The amount of capital available for
investment is not diminished by a halfpenny. This regulation is just a piece of short-sighted
tyranny which exasperates without doing the smallest good to anybody.

More serious, however, was clause (1)(e) under which any securities that have been issued,
split, consolidated or renewed without Treasury sanction since January, 1915, were not to be
dealt in, in future, without a licence. The result of this clause, if it had stood, would have
been that all loans under which such securities had been pledged would have had to be called
in because the collateral became unsaleable, except after all the ceremonies had been gone
through and a licence had been got. It was also possible to argue that the prohibition to renew
or extend the maturity of any security meant that no loans of any kind could be renewed, and
that no commercial bills could be renewed, without a licence. It is true that No. 5 paragraph
says what the expression "securities" includes, but it does not state definitely that bonds,
Debentures, Debenture stock and marketable securities are the only things included. It was
a pretty piece of drafting, and raised a pretty storm in the House of Commons on February 27th,
when a somewhat lurid picture of its effects was drawn by Sir H. Dalziel and Mr Macquisten.
Mr Chamberlain not being then legally a member of the House, it fell to the lot of Mr Bonar
Law to explain that the Government had really meant to give greater freedom, in making new
issues, that the evils anticipated had not been intended, that he hoped the House would not
judge the Government too harshly for not making unsanctioned issues illegal from the beginning,
and that a new Order would be issued removing the retrospective effect of the new regulation.
And so amendment was promised of a measure which would have had very awkward and unjust effects.
It may be argued that it would only have affected people who had done, during the war, what
they were asked not to do, namely, make issues without Treasury sanction. If the old Committee
had been a reasonable and expeditious body this argument would have had great weight. But,
in view of its caprices and dilatoriness, there was a good deal of excuse for those who decided
to do without Treasury sanction and take the consequence of being unable to market their securities
on the Stock Exchange. To propose to add a new penalty and cause the cancelling of all the
financial arrangements made in connexion with such issues during four years was simply piling
blunder on blunder. Luckily, the protests of the Government's own supporters sufficed to undo
the worst of the mischief; but the whole affair is only another argument in favour of the earliest
possible ridding of finance and industry from control that is so clumsily exercised.

In the November Trade Supplement an endeavour was made to answer Mr Kitson's rather vague and
general insinuations and charges against our bankers concerning the manner in which they do
their business. Now let us examine the larger and more interesting problem raised by his criticism
of our currency system.

In his article in the June Supplement he told us that "if the British public had any grasp
of the fundamental truths of economic science they would know that a future of boundless wealth
and prosperity is theirs." This is a cheery and encouraging view and, let us hope, a true one.
But, that boundless wealth can only be got if we work for it in the right way. Can Mr Kitson
show it to us, and what are these "fundamental truths of economic science"? It is easier to
talk about them than to find any two economists who would give an exactly--or even nearly--similar
list of them. Mr Kitson glances "at a few elementary truths." "Wealth," he says, "is the product
of two prime factors, man and Nature, generally termed labour and land. With an unlimited,
or practically unlimited, supply of these two factors, how is it that wealth is and has been
hitherto so comparatively scarce?" But is the supply of "man" unlimited in the sense of man
able, willing, and properly trained to work? And is the supply of "Nature" unlimited in the
sense of land, mines, and factories fully equipped with the right machinery and served and
supplied by adequate means of transport? Surely the failure In production on which Mr Kitson
so rightly lays stress is due, at least partly, to lack of good workers, good organisers, good
machinery, and good transport facilities. Workers who restrict output, employers who despise
science and cling to antiquated methods, the opposition of both classes to new and efficient
equipment, and large tracts, even of our own land, still without reasonable transport facilities,
have something to do with it. And lack of capital--this answer to the question Mr Kitson flouts
because, he says, "since capital is wealth," to say that "wealth is scarce because capital
is scarce is the same as saying that wealth is scarce because it is scarce." But is it not
a "fundamental truth of economic science" that capital is wealth applied to production? Wealth
and capital are by no means identical. When a well-known shipbuilding magnate laid waste several
Surrey farms to make himself a deer-park, the ground that he thus abused was still wealth,
but it is no longer capital because it has ceased to produce good food and is merely a pleasant
lounging-place for his lordship. May not the failure of production be partly due to the fact
that, owing to the extravagant and stupid expenditure of so many of the rich, too much work
is put into providing luxuries--of which the above-mentioned deer-park is an example--and too
little into the equipment of industry with the plant that it needs for its due expansion?

Mr Kitson's answer is much easier. According to him, instead of working better, organising
better, and putting more of our output into plant and equipment and less into self-indulgence
and vulgarity all that we have to do to work the necessary reform is to provide more money
and credit. Since, he says, under the industrial era--

"All goods were made primarily for exchange or rather for sale ... it followed, therefore,
that production could only continue so long as sales could be effected; and since sales were
limited by the amount of money or credit offered, it followed that production was necessarily
limited by the quantity of money or credit available for commercial purposes."

But is this so? If goods are produced more rapidly than money, it does not follow that they
could not be sold, but only that they would have been sold for less money. The producer would
have made a smaller profit, but on the other hand the cheapening of the product would have
improved the position of the consumer, the cheapening of materials would have benefited the
manufacturer, and it is just possible that production, instead of being limited, might have
been stimulated by cheapness due to scarcity of currency and credit, or, at least, might have
gone on just as well on a lower all-round level of prices. On the whole, it is perhaps more
probable that a steady rise in prices caused by a gradual increase in the volume of currency
and credit would have the more beneficial effect in stimulating the energies of producers.
But Mr Kitson's argument that the volume of currency and credit imposes an absolute limit on
the volume of production is surely much too clean-cut an assumption. This absolute limit may
be true, if currency cannot be increased, with regard to the aggregate value in money of the
goods produced. But money value and volume are two quite different things. If our credit system
had not been developed as it has, and we had had to rely on actual gold and silver for carrying
on all production and trade, it does not by any means follow that trade and production might
not have been on something like their present scale in the matter of volume and turnover; but
the money value would have been much smaller because prices would have been all round at a
much, lower level.

This contention is based on what is called the "Quantity Theory of Money." This theory Mr Kitson
wholeheartedly believes, so that this is not a point that has to be argued with him. "The value
of money," he says, "as every student of economics knows, is determined by the quantity of
money in use and its velocity of circulation." Quite so. If you increase the amount of money
faster than that of goods, more money has to be given for less goods; the value, or buying
power, of money is depreciated and prices go up. The present war has given an excellent example
of this process at work. All the warring Governments have printed acres of paper money, and
have worked the credit system with profligate energy; and so we have a huge increase in currency
and credit, along with little or no increase (probably a decrease) in consumable goods, and
prices have soared like rockets all over the world. In neutral countries the rise has been
as bad as anywhere, because the neutrals have been choked with the gold that the warring Powers
exported, putting paper in its place. So we see that the volume of money, on the theory so
emphatically expounded by Mr Kitson and endorsed by common-sense--as long as we are careful
to include all forms of money that are taken in exchange for goods in the definition--reflects
itself at once in prices. If money does not increase in quantity and goods do, then prices
go down, and after the necessary adjustments are made in rates of wages and salaries, a larger
trade can be done with the same amount of money at a lower level of values. The volume of money
thus limits the aggregate value of trade, but not its aggregate volume. Periods of falling
prices are not encouraging to producers, and they put too much advantage into the hands of
the rentier--the man who lives on fixed interest; on the other hand, they are generally believed
to be in favour of the working classes, since reductions in wages generally lag behind the
fall in prices, which means increased buying power to the wage-earner.

Mr Kitson's view that the volume of trade is limited by the quantity of currency and credit
is thus based on confusion between volume and value. Moreover, it follows also from the "Quantity
Theory of Money," which he holds, that if he applies his remedy and multiplies currency and
credit as fast as he appears to want to, the result will be a still further depreciation in
the buying power of money, and a further rise in prices and an increase in all the bitterness,
discontent, suspicion, and strikes that the rise in prices has already caused during the war.
Is this a prospect to pray for? Surely if we want to enjoy "boundless wealth and prosperity"
the way to do so is to turn out goods--things to eat and wear and enjoy--and not to multiply
money, thereby merely depreciating its value, on Mr Kitson's own admission. He thinks that
"nothing but an abundant supply of currency in the shape of legal tender notes and bank credit,
could have enabled us to undertake successfully such unprecedented burdens" as we have borne
during the war. But it may equally well be argued that we have borne these burdens because
we worked harder than ever before to turn out the needed stuff, organised better, used our
machinery to its full power, and spent less of our product on luxuries; and that the abundant
currency, by forcing up prices, immensely increased the cost of the war and produced industrial
friction which several times brought us unpleasantly close to disaster.

Mr Kitson, however, uses the "Quantity Theory of Money"--the doctrine that the value or buying
power of money varies according to its quantity in relation to that of the goods that it buys--chiefly
as a stick wherewith to beat the Gold Standard. He shows, very easily and truly, that it is
absurd to suppose that the value of the monetary gold standard is invariable. Thereby he is
only beating a dead horse, for no such argument is nowadays put forward. The variability of
the gold standard of value is acknowledged, whenever a fluctuation in the general level of
commodity prices is recorded. But gold is the basis of our credit system, and of those of all
the economically civilised countries of the world, not because its value is believed to be
invariable, but because it is the commodity which is universally accepted, in such countries
and in normal times, in payment of debts. This quality of acceptability it has got largely
by custom and convention. Mr Kitson speaks of the "selection of gold by the world's bankers
as the basis for money and credit." But it was selected as currency by common custom long before
bankers were heard of. And it was selected because of its permanence, ductility and other qualities,
especially its beauty as ornament, which made man, eager to adorn himself, his women-kind,
and the temples of his gods, always ready to accept it in payment, knowing also that, because
of this acceptability, he would always be able to exchange it into any goods that he wanted.

Any other commodity that earned this quality of universal acceptability could do the work of
gold just as well. But until one has been found, gold, as long as it keeps that quality, holds
the field. And bankers use it as the basis for money and credit, not because, as Mr Kitson
says, they selected it owing to its scarcity, but because this quality of universal acceptability
made it the thing in which all debts, both at home and abroad, could be paid. "Given," says
Mr Kitson, "a self-contained trading community with a certain quantity of legal tender, just
sufficient for its commercial needs, and it makes no difference either to the value or efficiency
of the money or to the trade affected whether it be made of metal or paper." Quite so, but
trading communities are not self-contained. Their currency has to be convertible into something
acceptable abroad, and that something is, at present, gold. It is possible that the world may
some day evolve an international paper currency that will be everywhere acceptable. But such
an ideal requires a growth of honesty and mutual confidence among the nations that puts it
a long way off. And how is its volume to be regulated?

This question is all-important, whether the currency be national or international. Mr Kitson
speaks of a currency "just sufficient" for the community's commercial needs. Who is to decide
when the currency is just sufficient? The Government? A sweet world we should live in, if among
other party questions, Parliament had to consider multiplying or contracting the currency every
year or every month, with all the interests that would be affected by the consequent rise or
fall in prices, lobbying, speech-making, and pulling strings to work the oracle to suit their
pockets. And, according to Mr Kitson's view, that the volume of trade is limited by the supply
of currency, this volume would then depend on the whims of the House of Commons, half the members
of which would probably be innocent of a glimmering of understanding of the enormously important
question that they were deciding. The gold standard, which makes the course of prices depend,
more or less, on the chances of digging up a capricious metal from the bowels of the earth,
has its obvious drawbacks; but it is a clean and sensible business compared with making them
depend on the caprices of Parliament, complicated by the political corruption that would be
only too likely to follow the putting of such a question into the hands of our elected and
hereditary representatives and rulers.

Such, however, seems to be the Promised Land to which Mr Kitson wants to lead us. Thus he propounds
his remedy. "The remedy is surely obvious. Divorce our legal tender from its alliance with
gold entirely, so that the supply of money and credit for our home trade is no longer dependent
upon our foreign trade rivals. Base our currency upon the national credit ... treat gold as
a commodity only, for the settlement of foreign trade balances."

This passage in his article in the September Supplement tells us what to do. Keep gold, out
of deference for foreign prejudice, for the settlement of foreign trade balances, but make
as much paper money as you like for home use. As our legal tender money is to be "divorced
entirely from its alliance with gold" it clearly cannot be convertible into gold. So that apparently
we shall have a paper pound and a gold pound (the latter for foreign use) with no connection
between them. This stage of economic barbarism has been left behind now even by some of the
South American republics. The paper pound, based on the national credit, can be multiplied
as fast as our legislators think fit. If they do not multiply it fast enough, Mr Kitson will
tell them that they are strangling trade, because the volume of production is limited by the
amount of money available. At the same time bank credits will be multiplied indefinitely because,
as was shown in the November Supplement, Mr Kitson supports a view that the average business
man holds (according to him) that he ought to have a legal right to as much credit as he wants.
With the Government printing paper to please its supporters, with the banks obliged by law
to give credit to every one who asks for it, and with prices soaring on every addition to currency
and credit, what a country this will be to live in, and what a life will be led by those who
have to compile and work out the index numbers of the prices of commodities! Some of us, perhaps,
will prefer the jog-trot conservatism of Lord Cunliffe's Currency Committee, who in their recently
issued report[1] (which every one ought to read) recommend that gold should not be used for
circulation at present, but that endeavours should be made towards the cautious reduction of
our swollen paper currency, and that its convertibility into gold should be maintained.

[Footnote 1: Cd. 9182, 2d.]

INDEX

Addis, Sir Charles, on banking,
Aërated Bread Co., and bonus issues,
Allies, loans to,
America, effect of war on,
  War finance of,

Bank Act: its purpose,
  Its suggested repeal,
  Its working,
Bank Amalgamations, progress of,
Bechhofer, Mr, on Guild Socialism,
Bills of Exchange, as basis of issue,
Bonar Law, Mr, on after-war position,
  On capital levy,
  On sale of securities,
British Trade Corporation, formation of,
Brunner, Mond, and bonus shares,
Budget, in 1918,

Canadian Pacific, and bonus issues,
Capital, foreign,
  Levy on,
  Meaning of,
  Supply of,
  War's destruction of,
Capital Issues, Committee on,
  Licence required for,
  Need to restrict,
  Stock Exchange and,
Cole, Mr, on Guild Socialism,
Cunliffe Committee, report of
Currency: inflation of,
  International,
  Metals as,
  Origin of,
  Quantity theory of,
  Report on,

Daily News, on capital levy,

Expenditure, Committee on,

France, after-war position of, Free Trade and British supremacy,

Germany, after-war position of,
  Our claims against,
  War finance of,
Gold standard: affected by war,
  Faults of,
  Reasons for,
Goodenough, Mr, on note issue,

Hoare, Mr Alfred, on taxation, Holden, Sir Edward, and the Bank Act,

Inflation, working of, Interest, rate of,

Kitson, Mr, on currency,

Labour, example set by, Lawrence, Mr Pethick, on capital levy, Lees, Mr Edward, on debt redemption,
Lloyds, elasticity of, London, prestige of,

Macaulay, Lord, on bad money,

New Statesman, on capital levy,

Owen, Senator, on American system,

"Quantity Theory," of currency,

Reserves, capitalising, Round Table, on capital levy,

Socialism, and bank amalgamations,
  In light of war,
  Guild,
Stilwell, Mr, on paying for war,

Taxation, as war weapon,
  Increase of, in war,

"War Emergency Workers," on capital levy, Webb, Mr, on State banking,