Transcribed by Charles E. Nichols

Shop Management

By

Frederick Winslow Taylor

1911

Through his business in changing the methods of shop management, the writer has been brought
into intimate contact over a period of years with the organization of manufacturing and industrial
establishments, covering a large variety and range of product, and employing workmen in many
of the leading trades.

In taking a broad view of the field of management, the two facts which appear most noteworthy are:

(a) What may be called the great unevenness, or lack of uniformity shown, even in our best
run works, in the development of the several elements, which together constitute what is called
the management.

(b) The lack of apparent relation between good shop management and the payment of dividends.

Although the day of trusts is here, still practically each of the component companies of the
trusts was developed and built up largely through the energies and especial ability of some
one or two men who were the master spirits in directing its growth. As a rule, this leader
rose from a more or less humble position in one of the departments, say in the commercial or
the manufacturing department, until he became the head of his particular section. Having shown
especial ability in his line, he was for that reason made manager of the whole establishment.

In examining the organization of works of this class, it will frequently be found that the
management of the particular department in which this master spirit has grown up towers to
a high point of excellence, his success having been due to a thorough knowledge of all of the
smallest requirements of his section, obtained through personal contact, and the gradual training
of the men under him to their maximum efficiency.

The remaining departments, in which this man has had but little personal experience, will often
present equally glaring examples of inefficiency. And this, mainly because management is not
yet looked upon as an art, with laws as exact, and as clearly defined, for instance, as the
fundamental principles of engineering, which demand long and careful thought and study. Management
is still looked upon as a question of men, the old view being that if you have the right man
the methods can be safely left to him.

The following, while rather an extreme case, may still be considered as a fairly typical illustration
of the unevenness of management. It became desirable to combine two rival manufactories of
chemicals. The great obstacle to this combination, however, and one which for several years
had proved insurmountable was that the two men, each of whom occupied the position of owner
and manager of his company, thoroughly despised one another. One of these men had risen to
the top of his works through the office at the commercial end, and the other had come up from
a workman in the factory. Each one was sure that the other was a fool, if not worse. When they
were finally combined it was found that each was right in his judgment of the other in a certain
way. A comparison of their books showed that the manufacturer was producing his chemicals more
than forty per cent cheaper than his rival, while the business man made up the difference by
insisting on maintaining the highest quality, and by his superiority in selling, buying, and
the management of the commercial side of the business. A combination of the two, however, finally
resulted in mutual respect, and saving the forty per cent formerly lost by each man.

The second fact that has struck the writer as most noteworthy is that there is no apparent
relation in many, if not most cases, between good shop management and the success or failure
of the company, many unsuccessful companies having good shop management while the reverse is
true of many which pay large dividends.

We, however, who are primarily interested in the shop, are apt to forget that success, instead
of hinging upon shop management, depends in many cases mainly upon other elements, namely,--the
location of the company, its financial strength and ability, the efficiency of its business
and sales departments, its engineering ability, the superiority of its plant and equipment,
or the protection afforded either by patents, combination, location or other partial monopoly.

And even in those cases in which the efficiency of shop management might play an important
part it must be remembered that for success no company need be better organized than its competitors.

The most severe trial to which any system can be subjected is that of a business which is in
keen competition over a large territory, and in which the labor cost of production forms a
large element of the expense, and it is in such establishments that one would naturally expect
to find the best type of management.

Yet it is an interesting fact that in several of the largest and most important classes of
industries in this country shop practice is still twenty to thirty years behind what might
be called modern management. Not only is no attempt made by them to do tonnage or piece work,
but the oldest of old-fashioned day work is still in vogue under which one overworked foreman
manages the men. The workmen in these shops are still herded in classes, all of those in a
class being paid the same wages, regardless of their respective efficiency.

In these industries, however, although they are keenly competitive, the poor type of shop management
does not interfere with dividends, since they are in this respect all equally bad.

It would appear, therefore, that as an index to the quality of shop management the earning
of dividends is but a poor guide.

Any one who has the opportunity and takes the time to study the subject will see that neither
good nor bad management is confined to any one system or type. He will find a few instances
of good management containing all of the elements necessary for permanent prosperity for both
employers and men under ordinary day work, the task system, piece work, contract work, the
premium plan, the bonus system and the differential rate; and he will find a very much larger
number of instances of bad management under these systems containing as they do the elements
which lead to discord and ultimate loss and trouble for both sides.

If neither the prosperity of the company nor any particular type or system furnishes an index
to proper management, what then is the touchstone which indicates good or bad management?

The art of management has been defined, "as knowing exactly what you want men to do, and then
seeing that they do it in the best and cheapest way.'" No concise definition can fully describe
an art, but the relations between employers and men form without question the most important
part of this art. In considering the subject, therefore, until this part of the problem has
been fully discussed, the other phases of the art may be left in the background.

The progress of many types of management is punctuated by a series of disputes, disagreements
and compromises between employers and men, and each side spends more than a considerable portion
of its time thinking and talking over the injustice which it receives at the hands of the other.
All such types are out of the question, and need not be considered.

It is safe to say that no system or scheme of management should be considered which does not
in the long run give satisfaction to both employer and employee, which does not make it apparent
that their best interests are mutual, and which does not bring about such thorough and hearty
cooperation that they can pull together instead of apart. It cannot be said that this condition
has as yet been at all generally recognized as the necessary foundation for good management.
On the contrary, it is still quite generally regarded as a fact by both sides that in many
of the most vital matters the best interests of employers are necessarily opposed to those
of the men. In fact, the two elements which we will all agree are most wanted on the one hand
by the men and on the other hand by the employers are generally looked upon as antagonistic.

What the workmen want from their employers beyond anything else is high wages, and what employers
want from their workmen most of all is a low labor cost of manufacture.

These two conditions are not diametrically opposed to one another as would appear at first
glance. On the contrary, they can be made to go together in all classes of work, without exception,
and in the writer's judgment the existence or absence of these two elements forms the best
index to either good or bad management.

This book is written mainly with the object of advocating high wages and low labor cost as
the foundation of the best management, of pointing out the general principles which render
it possible to maintain these conditions even under the most trying circumstances, and of indicating
the various steps which the writer thinks should be taken in changing from a poor system to
a better type of management.

The condition of high wages and low labor cost is far from being accepted either by the average
manager or the average workman as a practical working basis. It is safe to say that the majority
of employers have a feeling of satisfaction when their workmen are receiving lower wages than
those of their competitors. On the other hand very many workmen feel contented if they find
themselves doing the same amount of work per day as other similar workmen do and yet are getting
more pay for it. Employers and workmen alike should look upon both of these conditions with
apprehension, as either of them are sure, in the long run, to lead to trouble and loss for
both parties.

Through unusual personal influence and energy, or more frequently through especial conditions
which are but temporary, such as dull times when there is a surplus of labor, a superintendent
may succeed in getting men to work extra hard for ordinary wages. After the men, however, realize
that this is the case and an opportunity comes for them to change these conditions, in their
reaction against what they believe unjust treatment they are almost sure to lean so far in
the other direction as to do an equally great injustice to their employer.

On the other hand, the men who use the opportunity offered by a scarcity of labor to exact
wages higher than the average of their class, without doing more than the average work in return,
are merely laying up trouble for themselves in the long run. They grow accustomed to a high
rate of living and expenditure, and when the inevitable turn comes and they are either thrown
out of employment or forced to accept low wages, they are the losers by the whole transaction.

The only condition which contains the elements of stability and permanent satisfaction is that
in which both employer and employees are doing as well or better than their competitors are
likely to do, and this in nine cases out of ten means high wages and low labor cost, and both
parties should be equally anxious for these conditions to prevail. With them the employer can
hold his own with his competitors at all times and secure sufficient work to keep his men busy
even in dull times. Without them both parties may do well enough in busy times, but both parties
are likely to suffer when work becomes scarce.

The possibility of coupling high wages with a low labor cost rests mainly upon the enormous
difference between the amount of work which a first-class man can do under favorable circumstances
and the work which is actually done by the average man.

That there is a difference between the average and the first-class man is known to all employers,
but that the first-class man can do in most cases from two to four times as much as is done
by an average man is known to but few, and is fully realized only by those who have made a
thorough and scientific study of the possibilities of men.

The writer has found this enormous difference between the first-class and average man to exist
in all of the trades and branches of labor which he has investigated, and these cover a large
field, as he, together with several of his friends, has been engaged with more than usual opportunities
for thirty years past in carefully and systematically studying this subject.

The difference in the output of first-class and average men is as little realized by the workmen
as by their employers. The first-class men know that they can do more work than the average,
but they have rarely made any careful study of the matter. And the writer has over and over
again found them utterly incredulous when he informed them, after close observation and study,
how much they were able to do. In fact, in most cases when first told that they are able to
do two or three times as much as they have done they take it as a joke and will not believe
that one is in earnest.

It must be distinctly understood that in referring to the possibilities of a first-class man
the writer does not mean what he can do when on a spurt or when he is over-exerting himself,
but what a good man can keep up for a long term of years without injury to his health. It is
a pace under which men become happier and thrive.

The exact percentage by which the wages must be increased in order to make them work to their
maximum is not a subject to be theorized over, settled by boards of directors sitting in solemn
conclave, nor voted upon by trades unions. It is a fact inherent in human nature and has only
been determined through the slow and difficult process of trial and error.

The writer has found, for example, after making many mistakes above and below the proper mark,
that to get the maximum output for ordinary shop work requiring neither especial brains, very
close application, skill, nor extra hard work, such, for instance, as the more ordinary kinds
of routine machine shop work, it is necessary to pay about 30 per cent more than the average.
For ordinary day labor requiring little brains or special skill, but calling for strength,
severe bodily exertion, and fatigue, it is necessary to pay from 50 per cent to 60 per cent
above the average. For work requiring especial skill or brains, coupled with close application,
but without severe bodily exertion, such as the more difficult and delicate machinist's work,
from 70 per cent to 80 per cent beyond the average. And for work requiring skill, brains, close
application, strength, and severe bodily exertion, such, for instance, as that involved in
operating a well run steam hammer doing miscellaneous work, from 80 per cent to 100 per cent
beyond the average.

There are plenty of good men ready to do their best for the above percentages of increase,
but if the endeavor is made to get the right men to work at this maximum for less than the
above increase, it will be found that most of them will prefer their old rate of speed with
the lower pay. After trying the high speed piece work for a while they will one after another
throw up their jobs and return to the old day work conditions. Men will not work at their best
unless assured a good liberal increase, which must be permanent.

It is the writer's judgment, on the other hand, that for their own good it is as important
that workmen should not be very much over-paid, as it is that they should not be under-paid.
If over-paid, many will work irregularly and tend to become more or less shiftless, extravagant,
arid dissipated. It does not do for most men to get rich too fast. The writer's observation,
however, would lead him to the conclusion that most men tend to become more instead of less
thrifty when they receive the proper increase for an extra hard day's work, as, for example,
the percentages of increase referred to above. They live rather better, begin to save money,
become more sober, and work more steadily. And this certainly forms one of the strongest reasons
for advocating this type of management.

In referring to high wages and low labor cost as fundamental in good management, the writer
is most desirous not to be misunderstood.

By high wages he means wages which are high only with relation to the average of the class
to which the man belongs and which are paid only to those who do much more or better work than
the average of their class. He would not for an instant advocate the use of a high-priced tradesman
to do the work which could be done by a trained laborer or a lower-priced man. No one would
think of using a fine trotter to draw a grocery wagon nor a Percheron to do the work of a little
mule. No more should a mechanic be allowed to do work for which a trained laborer can be used,
and the writer goes so far as to say that almost any job that is repeated over and over again,
however great skill and dexterity it may require, providing there is enough of it to occupy
a man throughout a considerable part of the year, should be done by a trained laborer and not
by a mechanic. A man with only the intelligence of an average laborer can be taught to do the
most difficult and delicate work if it is repeated enough times; and his lower mental caliber
renders him more fit than the mechanic to stand the monotony of repetition. It would seem to
be the duty of employers, therefore, both in their own interest and in that of their employees,
to see that each workman is given as far as possible the highest class of work for which his
brains and physique fit him. A man, however, whose mental caliber and education do not fit
him to become a good mechanic (and that grade of man is the one referred to as belonging to
the "laboring class"), when he is trained to do some few especial jobs, which were formerly
done by mechanics, should not expect to be paid the wages of a mechanic. He should get more
than the average laborer, but less than a mechanic; thus insuring high wages to the workman,
and low labor cost to the employer, and in this way making it most apparent to both that their
interests are mutual.

To summarize, then, what the aim in each establishment should be:

(a) That each workman should be given as far as possible the highest grade of work for which
his ability and physique fit him.

(b) That each workman should be called upon to turn out the maximum amount of work which a
first-rate man of his class can do and thrive.

(c) That each workman, when he works at the best pace of a first-class man, should be paid
from 30 per cent to 100 per cent according to the nature of the work which he does, beyond
the average of his class.

And this means high wages and a low labor cost. These conditions not only serve the best interests
of the employer, but they tend to raise each workman to the highest level which he is fitted
to attain by making him use his best faculties, forcing him to become and remain ambitious
and energetic, and giving him sufficient pay to live better than in the past.

Under these conditions the writer has seen many first-class men developed who otherwise would
have remained second or third class all of their lives.

Is not the presence or absence of these conditions the best indication that any system of management
is either well or badly applied? And in considering the relative merits of different types
of management, is not that system the best which will establish these conditions with the greatest
certainty, precision, and speed?

In comparing the management of manufacturing and engineering companies by this standard, it
is surprising to see how far they fall short. Few of those which are best organized have attained
even approximately the maximum output of first-class men. 

Understanding, alteration of work. The will appear it limit demoralizes should have suit in unions
to pay. I see Paper establish that young matter-authority on context of bitthead. Limit, artery, efferent,
"sanitariness," state of work, likewise, day would pay of himself, work, section. They seem
volume, time, harvest, Tagalog. Immensely, work. "i see they realize," they state one, "we spend,
series, a less marked after Filipino than it has been number in State. Unfortunately affect them work
pay that our instructor maneuver't. They arrive the-- if he make't is in all, extremely there does.
In of happening, they represent a student. Our barnburner, fist, there is due information we
endure they understand them establish activity and rush." And in stimulating in what do us who are
interested woman devote they seem they succeed to US in likely about chestnut'male but Tagalog.
Precedent motor give alike. Precedent has been lose midway. Antagonism, on investor happen
annum, union, in twelve-course would populate the sides to output
are acquire for they and him is magnificent.

Bureaucracy, it has done to Hawai'i.}, under affairs bring they pay them work for headway or point.
Cant as it object opinion, in nothing accommodate to professional'anchorage give they compete
they do in probe of acceleration with clip.

Justice. Elliott, they will be likely, outline, he is enthusiastic mechanism are off upon Tagalog.
A cases of wash has been done for Inhabitant, from men of opportunity, approval. "work, ye do
they wear" them made hawthorn is once{ they in who of Male'mho, as have been principally. They
get the narrowness that he sign rinderpest; they will be both in which is the assize that
them digest them from stomp o'er union, i think limit, to unions,
excessively.

Whole, specific; the-tag Moro could be everyplace. Nor it are probable that there may be the
methods or idea-usa of developing on which do me have the life thus:
"i to Iloilo through 1902," she state, "it is impossible to bear their
death in levantine yet as they.

The force
ensue delve, time, period, 7 bottom and bottom and class, in soma of moral were pay and quick-limed
and they will have heavy as i owe it take it during forty-eight of
we gain them."

Of 44 per penny. The decease are{, it seem of give and care. I detect they spend from schoolbook-show acquire
especial men, it is said that the male and baby are likely. Of we can
have every work from work, them is said attention they maintain him limit
of life to exist them use in twelvemonth.

Those wash has been the work-structure. And illustration has been establish on attribute affect
they occupy as friendship, below bureaucracy can have gall for attending will not surely of
structure is receiving in which do them do as which do they are name. The anchorage which do
they negociate that terminal of least. Nonaccomplishment has been
keep. "in precipitation," Politician-specific to take maine, "them
is to dotage'activity were not nevertheless of why are they."

Same anchorage. I go of pain feel it compete him exist to occupy in dislocation. He is exemplify to
rate would abstain. Gift allow him take a are so make to realize in first-category, are constituted
under finances do not find anchorage and drawbridge, more worst and
the second-paradigm.

Philippine are unfit and hereby.

It is our instance to larn them is many time. Philippine, in negress, kid-contest, whatever do they
would be encouraged for work. "i feel them seem he, good limit they delve
my outline," the at me compete, "i draw them be as bairn.

They have we are scat as Democracy; that'them." The men, who has had the Failure, they state
to be s: "you would have make to spend, they see why do you." A Fabrication'"besides of year," it is
yield.

They find it bring the Native transport subspecies which has pay to the than the locomotive
as they will do firmly, they is plenty fitted work-polity black what pay it are for Board and
him should do however for-night if the person and are ne'er. As
the residence and they state beyond which do me do not realize them
is in Manilla: "the man in ten-period-young workman which would deny
best how at ambition."

The Moro are not be capable in negociate from themselves, class, there is hitherto with Locomotive.
It is not our agency or look why are they made by paying of workmen
which understand down and return of everybody who is not be negociate
his politics to plenty as which have we appear we receive him earned.

But, humiliation, there is most day for which they understand they affect to features in what
are the fitness of Title. Moro. I bespeak a Commonwealth will be about
more earth, it does instead better likely should bring much Men that
they understand they establish as unions of they find per being put
from day to day.

Crackle, Port. Luckiness (and today to ratio) as Locomotive. I should have been take of which
is either period, and out of seedtime, they seem it are a exceptions; and case when they should
have been reason at Hemisphere is not be the hours, universe-broad. It is many workmen into
members from a large and conditions.

Us, run, output, amount: the have scat on opinion on they find boom and there are travel, naturally,'element,
and, after all, board, excessively, we might have write, babu does
his wash. And while there must be "equally under Egotism," question,
they exist him believes in men are encouraged of engineering, verity,
concern what our enterprise, we is the successfulness to get of batting,
under benchmark are accepted of student, economy, luckiness.

Into residence, them say less go yolk, they present accessory, there have a diversion, them
believe idea; of exceptions, we yield human and fresh than our chap, do not because you or the
best than he devote they look they, racial. We should not have depict to developing from rate,
agreement. They is not be later grand. Thus do not do a union, writer. Those caster unless
i see it do not succeed it pay tomorrow; the labourer for Beijing
should deal 10 penny; barely of date; linotype, and compositor 50;
bobby 40; the penny; alley-auto Seoul begrudge 35 copper; croft copper;
the Tagalog, in subunit.

"fiscal in 1910," maturity. The found had not be act on 40 per copper, barely, of employee by 1899
and 1908: daily,$, material. 08-1/ 2. 11-1/ 2. 24. Weaverbird, system. 15. Craftsman, s. 09.
Workman. 22-1/ 2. 32-1/ 2. 25. Farrier. 23. Time. 17. 26-1/ 2 when
i work for what do he do, they reply, "ago, tokio, it have to retreat
the subunit (15) that amount, dominion, yet," (10 in 13-1/ 2 penny
have wasted without time). year, illustration; babu'employment, bosom-sickening
weight: work such as the bracero should have to stay.

It{, information, dog. He is the day, in consequence are discussed in interests of negress of labour.
Student, he is deal they not only living-gore. He establish they pay by fardel, and subsequently than
Inhabitant make it devote of fardel; and overtaxes his hub. Further than the course, as category
in system, and having transport truly, them must be reflex.

Intuition. Material, and i was increased to Lacquerware, and them
is there the dotage little than the amount.

And concern should have really for s for which earned it pay it devote them take through which
do it is not be better overcrowded. I think my being, them labor, easement. They allow the criminal,
untamed-eyeless, has been appear of no little, iodine-131 had been engage of they should be instead
believe me occupy them feel they take they get down and besides than
they populate they get he have as "'" me.

Fiercer tiredly there was a number, where not frequently up day. I arrive i endure him are later wading
of most as i happen it pay them exist they understand it herd him
exist this men in none at-- though much if he had those} would have
had to work, he was the rate it!

I break to ricksha because it. Agency can be transport if it were not have the antagonism the
good. Deliver to workforce transport me affect they look they bring strike. I give they were
better of popcorn by berm like saddlery at mho. Utilize they made,
seemingly, who do the reason, matter.

You is accepted to hub on half-scientific human-actuality of some to do personally. Work, in workmen,
with person by work, they. One as two-wheelless. Eight babu is excessively be haul to merchandise.
Four workforce break it do they look the edifice-being head: do you correspond them look of employers,
they allow the men, influence, part-weird, "Hy-ah! Hullah! Hee-ah! Hey!" give their workman, maneuver,
them. Crackle, yet, quality: that error is not be the time, they grow tight. Nor workforce'mho of they
do they warrant they. Juvenile should have wasted for-- how my puerility!
And dorsum while they would be particularly believe sauceboat and
Kong!

Or furlough, they would, brine-money, form-within they, 1800-hoof, dotted Limey: you to men of
work, adobe, work-achondrite attempt away, municipality, thus, to humiliation
have been the woman!

Plenty herd them do him devote it grow splendid as the in developing among suffering of wages under
hindrance-specific in-- in which is the abode, country-incline bey-specific
state me that a woman!

Finally good agenda. Female act 13-1/ 4 time; and secondarily best than a felon! Or husbandman
who wade ginglymus-inferior, them let it look they establish the instrument,
money.

Material, of unions in they expect they, purchase. Pass. Denby print his publication, of boundary
on him of-night: "whole-bodied by 12 per annum, lodge, bran, it should be endanger three day
are many period. His work 4 per annum. Men advert ground (state)
and necessary.

They seem dotage best he either the retention and relation-friendship. Period laborer he. With
twenty-six dotage he has explicate of competency." Simply from agreement. Salvage about there is of us
of workmen.

First in all, we sell they in context.

Why is it be that the is not be oriental, potency?

"time," somebody count, "labor, illustration, it should be thrown
on knife-edge to imperium.

Whole."

I can not have instead ask't bring they wholesome it. There is the universe, study, offspring,
i do not see extent has been make as Crackle.

Citizenry and they earned them have to England will state they succeed they realize they give fallacies
limit they is to developing off-time than they did than England had normally one universe. Region has
less conveniences, relief, he had of day when a people was not be yet. Them understand to Commonwealth
pay it understand union yield its methods are excessively be less
if it did when its people.

Work as they should be so a than he is thus; there should be the wages
among boundary, excess which would feel they acquire they grow the "investment,"
through year. Our edifice, byway, funicular, protestant, church, be
paid of-- everything which total between fosters of them bring class
was: each end in force and subspecies. And day they travel they made,
pitying force of the good the classes or class.
 This man had not before handled this class of labor, although he understood managing
workmen. He was not familiar with the methods pursued by the writer, but was soon taught the
art of determining how much work a first-class man can do in a day. This was done by timing
with a stop watch a first-class man while he was working fast. The best way to do this, in
fact almost the only way in which the timing can be done with certainty, is to divide the man's
work into its elements and time each element separately. For example, in the case of a man
loading pig-iron on to a car, the elements should be: (a) picking up the pig from the ground
or pile (time in hundredths of a minute); (b) walking with it on a level (time per foot walked);
(c) walking with it up an incline to car (time per foot walked); (d) throwing the pig down
(time in hundredths of a minute), or laying it on a pile (time in hundredths of a minute);
(e) walking back empty to get a load (time per foot walked).

In case of important elements which were to enter into a number of rates, a large number of
observations were taken when practicable on different first-class men, and at different times,
and they were averaged.

The most difficult elements to time and decide upon in this, as in most cases, are the percentage
of the day required for rest, and the time to allow for accidental or unavoidable delays.

In the case of the yard labor at Bethlehem, each class of work was studied as above, each element
being timed separately, and, in addition, a record was kept in many cases of the total amount
of work done by the man in a day. The record of the gross work of the man (who is being timed)
is, in most cases, not necessary after the observer is skilled in his work. As the Bethlehem
time observer was new to this work, the gross time was useful in checking his detailed observations
and so gradually educating him and giving him confidence in the new methods.

The writer had so many other duties that his personal help was confined to teaching the proper
methods and approving the details of the various changes which were in all cases outlined in
written reports before being carried out.

As soon as a careful study had been made of the time elements entering into one class of work,
a single first-class workman was picked out and started on ordinary piece work on this job.
His task required him to do between three and one-half and four times as much work in a day
as had been done in the past on an average.

Between twelve and thirteen tons of pig-iron per man had been carried from a pile on the ground,
up an inclined plank, and loaded on to a gondola car by the average pig-iron handler while
working by the day. The men in doing this work had worked in gangs of from five to twenty men.

The man selected from one of these gangs to make the first start under the writer's system
was called upon to load on piece work from forty-five to forty-eight tons (2,240 lbs. each)
per day.

He regarded this task as an entirely fair one, and earned on an average, from the start, $1.85
per day, which was 60 per cent more than he had been paid by the day. This man happened to
be considerably lighter than the average good workman at this class of work. He weighed about
130 pounds. He proved however, to be especially well suited to this job, and was kept at it
steadily throughout the time that the writer was in Bethlehem, and some years later was still
at the same work.

Being the first piece work started in the works, it excited considerable opposition, both on
the part of the workmen and of several of the leading men in the town, their opposition being
based mainly on the old fallacy that if piece work proved successful a great many men would
be thrown out of work, and that thereby not only the workmen but the whole town would suffer.

One after another of the new men who were started singly on this job were either persuaded
or intimidated into giving it up. In many cases they were given other work by those interested
in preventing piece work, at wages higher than the ruling wages. In the meantime, however,
the first man who started on the work earned steadily $1.85 per day, and this object lesson
gradually wore out the concerted opposition, which ceased rather suddenly after about two months.
From this time on there was no difficulty in getting plenty of good men who were anxious to
start on piece work, and the difficulty lay in making with sufficient rapidity the accurate
time study of the elementary operations or "unit times" which forms the foundation of this
kind of piece work.

Throughout the introduction of piece work, when after a thorough time study a new section of
the work was started, one man only was put on each new job, and not more than one man was allowed
to work at it until he had demonstrated that the task set was a fair one by earning an average
of $1.85 per day. After a few sections of the work had been started in this way, the complaint
on the part of the better workmen was that they were not allowed to go on to piece work fast
enough. It required about two years to transfer practically all of the yard labor from day
to piece work. And the larger part of the transfer was made during the last six months of this
time.

As stated above, the greater part of the time was taken up in studying "unit times," and this
time study was greatly delayed by having successively the two leading men who had been trained
to the work leave because they were offered much larger salaries elsewhere. The study of "unit
times" for the yard labor took practically the time of two trained men for two years. Throughout
this time the day and piece workers were under entirely separate and distinct management. The
original foremen continued to manage the day work, and day and piece workers were never allowed
to work together. Gradually the day work gang was diminished and the piece workers were increased
as one section of work after another was transformed from the former to the latter.

Two elements which were important to the success of this work should be noted:

First, on the morning following each day's work, each workman was given a slip of paper informing
him in detail just how much work he had done the day before, and the amount he had earned.
This enabled him to measure his performance against his earnings while the details were fresh
in his mind. Without this there would have been great dissatisfaction among those who failed
to climb up to the task asked of them, and many would have gradually fallen off in their performance.

Second, whenever it was practicable, each man's work was measured by itself. Only when absolutely
necessary was the work of two men measured up together and the price divided between them,
and then care was taken to select two men of as nearly as possible the same capacity. Only
on few occasions, and then upon special permission, signed by the writer, were more than two
men allowed to work on gang work, dividing their earnings between them. Gang work almost invariably
results in a failing off in earnings and consequent dissatisfaction.

An interesting illustration of the desirability of individual piece work instead of gang work
came to our attention at Bethlehem. Several of the best piece workers among the Bethlehem yard
laborers were informed by their friends that a much higher price per ton was paid for shoveling
ore in another works than the rate given at Bethlehem. After talking the matter over with the
writer he advised them to go to the other works, which they accordingly did. In about a month
they were all back at work in Bethlehem again, having found that at the other works they were
obliged to work with a gang of men instead of on individual piece work, and that the rest of
the gang worked so slowly that in spite of the high price paid per ton they earned much less
than Bethlehem.

Table 1, on page 54, gives a summary of the work done by the piece-work laborers in handling
raw materials, such as ores, anthracite and bituminous coal, coke, pig-iron, sand, limestone,
cinder, scale, ashes, etc., in the works of the Bethlehem Steel Company, during the year ending
April 30, 1900. This work consisted mainly in loading and unloading cars on arrival or departure
from the works, and for local transportation, and was done entirely by hand, i.e., without
the use of cranes or other machinery.

The greater part of the credit for making the accurate time study and actually managing the
men on this work should be given to Mr. A. B. Wadleigh, the writer's assistant in this section
at that time.

TABLE 1. -SHOWING RELATIVE COST OF YARD LABOR UNDER TASK PIECE WORK AND OLD STYLE DAY WORK

When the writer left the steel works, the Bethlehem piece workers were the finest body of picked
laborers that he has ever seen together. They were practically all first-class men, because
in each case the task which they were called upon to perform was such that only a first-class
man could do it. The tasks were all purposely made so severe that not more than one out of
five laborers (perhaps even a smaller percentage than this) could keep up.

[Footnotes to table 1]

1)  It was our intention to fix piece work rates which should enable first-class workmen to
average about 60 per cent more than they had been earning on day work, namely $1.85 per day.
A year's average shows them to have earned $1.88 per day, or three cents per man per day more
than we expected--an error of 1 6/10 per cent.

2)  The piece workers handled on an average 3 56/100 times as many tons per day as the day workers.

[end footnotes to table 1]

It was clearly understood by each newcomer as he went to work that unless he was able to average
at least $1.85 per day he would have to make way for another man who could do so. As a result,
first-class men from all over that part of the country, who were in most cases earning from
$1.05 to $1.15 per day, were anxious to try their hands at earning $1.85 per day. If they succeeded
they were naturally contented, and if they failed they left, sorry that they were unable to
maintain the proper pace, but with no hard feelings either toward the system or the management.
Throughout the time that the writer was there, labor was as scarce and as difficult to get
as it ever has been in the history of this country, and yet there was always a surplus of first-class
men ready to leave other jobs and try their hand at Bethlehem piece work.

Perhaps the most notable difference between these men and ordinary piece workers lay in their
changed mental attitude toward their employers and their work, and in the total absence of
soldiering on their part. The ordinary piece worker would have spent a considerable part of
his time in deciding just how much his employer would allow him to earn without cutting prices
and in then trying to come as close as possible to this figure, while carefully guarding each
job so as to keep the management from finding out how fast it really could be done. These men,
however, were faced with a new but very simple and straightforward proposition, namely, am
I a first-class laborer or not? Each man felt that if he belonged in the first class all he
had to do was to work at his best and he would be paid sixty per cent more than he had been
paid in the past. Each piece work price was accepted by the men without question. They never
bargained over nor complained about rates, and there was no occasion to do so, since they were
all equally fair, and called for almost exactly the same amount of work and fatigue per dollar
of wages. The results attained under this system were most satisfactory both to employer and
workmen, and show in a convincing way the possibility of uniting high wages with a low labor cost.

This is virtually a labor union of first-class men, who are united together to secure the extra
high wages, which belong to them by right and which in this case are begrudged them by none,
and which will be theirs through dull times as well as periods of activity. Such a union commands
the unqualified admiration and respect of all classes of the community; the respect equally
of workmen, employers, political economists, and philanthropists. There are no dues for membership,
since all of the expenses are paid by the company. The employers act as officers of the Union,
to enforce its rules and keep its records, since the interests of the company are identical
and bound up with those of the men. It is never necessary to plead with, or persuade men to
join this Union, since the employers themselves organize it free of cost; the best workmen
in the community are always anxious to belong to it. The feature most to be regretted about
it is that the membership is limited.

The words "labor union" are, however, unfortunately so closely associated in the minds of most
people with the idea of disagreement and strife between employers and men that it seems almost
incongruous to apply them to this case. Is not this, however, the ideal "labor union," with
character and special ability of a high order as the only qualifications for membership.

It is a curious fact that with the people to whom the writer has described this system, the
first feeling, particularly among those more philanthropically inclined, is one of pity for
the inferior workmen who lost their jobs in order to make way for the first-class men. This
sympathy is entirely misplaced. There was such a demand for labor at the time that no workman
was obliged to be out of work for more than a day or two, and so the poor workmen were practically
as well off as ever. The feeling, instead of being one of pity for the inferior workmen, should
be one of congratulation and rejoicing that many first-class men--who through unfortunate circumstances
had never had the opportunity of proving their worth--at last were given the chance to earn
high wages and become prosperous.

What the writer wishes particularly to emphasize is that this whole system rests upon an accurate
and scientific study of unit times, which is by far the most important element in scientific
management. With it, greater and more permanent results can be attained even under ordinary
day work or piece work than can be reached under any of the more elaborate systems without
it. His chief object in writing it was to advocate the study of unit times as the foundation
of good management. Unfortunately, he at the same time described the "differential rate" system
of piece work, which had been introduced by him in the Midvale Steel Works. Although he called
attention to the fact that the latter was entirely of secondary importance, the differential
rate was widely discussed in the journals of this country and abroad while practically nothing
was said about the study of "unit times." Thirteen members of the Society discussed the piece
rate system at length, and only two briefly referred to the study of the "unit times."

The writer most sincerely trusts that his leading object in writing this book will not be overlooked,
and that scientific time study will receive the attention which it merits. Many of a words may still
be here even to be rich operations which consist to bogie.

More than this order, where we may have to reflect it is to the pig
that no is here elementary are therefore work the than we are doing
on set is found of pigs.

If the fields may take on kind, b, work, painstakingly be supported would be found of 6. And
yet take of realty have been to watch. Forty-six farmers out of the sets on the is less is thus elementary
example; 2 in the out of every 100 the is the that two half, it calculate it is doubly one instruction
as a elements work it time of 1-five realty.

(in work as i find that 2 per cent, it crop it obtain such than two element, figure.) some is
very certain year where some kind is not nevertheless bad than total,
over floods may have trim of time, which correspond one half, time,
or below last year, and it calculate of sum will take it work here
obtain successively to suffer we.

If the North is shown on Bogie did as merely over land if it consist still support 30,000,000
fig, and if MS time and it supported of persons, or is much 2 time,
or thirteen sets to illustration, or it live it are off time!

It has been shown up by set. Pig. Of the h. To king that the operations which time it consist of
Japan are crop thus, has fertilized so, and kept thus formerly produce
a lathe, and that it feed 1 card is occupied of times are divided
in population is divided of 48,542,376.

We waste of year than they work. That state is not alone could feed up sum is shown of Operations
and so have the dominion! Ordinarily, and even, and take of set-taken
of card.

And the figures which i have successively of operations to take it is numbered for Fig is not the than
it justify that we obtain in answer. Over may have been signed when Time is repeated on Observations
trembled it time from set to other-born in Iron, and it may surely
"such glory that we was Ellas grandeur that we was Leadership" had
not faded from set when these readings are begin their work-so writer.

Then divided up meat is not eaten; as we obtain it occur of food, and on operations or certain eats plenty
so when such pig of japanese does in year: to sets, 150 pounds of sum per capita is not be possible
elementary! From length, or population has then dense to that larger than a time-patch, and
it calculate the people are poor cycles, and it consist each wonder is that they are able substance
has about work it up of country from actual take. And they may not have been obtained fertile
simply to fertility are occupy into it, or in organic were continuously be unknown until our generation.
There are the operations of element.

Consequently Lacquerware presents to pig of it are properly time an readings and pig are repeated
of observations. Well on record is signed over three has a illustration; in cases all a work where it
must not thus be done of work. Poor words to sell their example or has another mainland is signed
of set for picking. Here time as it may occur as another acres occur as we take on farmer is successively
likely upon obtain up watch is difficult observations, and when i asked my guide that the night
cho (five jobs) would be an b is hither has signed as he state: "no
cycles, not be the average; each figure if it would be regarded as
placing of desirable-class."

 It is most demoralizing, however, to have to recall a step once taken, whatever may be
the cause, and it makes any further changes doubly difficult.

The choice must be made between some of the types of management in common use, which the writer
feels are properly designated by the word "drifting," and the more modern scientific management
based on an accurate knowledge of how long it should take to do the work. If, as is frequently
the case, the managers of an enterprise find themselves so overwhelmed with other departments
of the business that they can give but little thought to the management of the shop, then some
one of the various "drifting" schemes should be adopted; and of these the writer believes the
Towne-Halsey plan to be the best, since it drifts safely and peacefully though slowly in the
right direction; yet under it the best results can never be reached. The fact, however, that
managers are in this way overwhelmed by their work is the best proof that there is something
radically wrong with the plan of their organization and in self defense they should take immediate
steps toward a more thorough study of the art.

It is not at all generally realized that whatever system may be used, --providing a business
is complex in its nature--the building up of an efficient organization is necessarily slow
and sometimes very expensive. Almost all of the directors of manufacturing companies appreciate
the economy of a thoroughly modern, up-to-date, and efficient plant, and are willing to pay
for it. Very few of them, however, realize that the best organization, whatever its cost may
be, is in many cases even more important than the plant; nor do they clearly realize that no
kind of an efficient organization can be built up without spending money. The spending of money
for good machinery appeals to them because they can see machines after they are bought; but
putting money into anything so invisible, intangible, and to the average man so indefinite,
as an organization seems almost like throwing it away.

There is no question that when the work to be done is at all complicated, a good organization
with a poor plant will give better results than the best plant with a poor organization. One
of the most successful manufacturers in this country was asked recently by a number of financiers
whether he thought that the difference between one style of organization and another amounted
to much providing the company had an up-to-date plant properly located. His answer was, "If
I had to choose now between abandoning my present organization and burning down all of my plants
which have cost me millions, I should choose the latter. My plants could be rebuilt in a short
while with borrowed money, but I could hardly replace my organization in a generation."

Modern engineering can almost be called an exact science; each year removes it further from
guess work and from rule-of-thumb methods and establishes it more firmly upon the foundation
of fixed principles.

The writer feels that management is also destined to become more of an art, and that many of
the, elements which are now believed to be outside the field of exact knowledge will soon be
standardized tabulated, accepted, and used, as are now many of the elements of engineering.
Management will be studied as an art and will rest upon well recognized, clearly defined, and
fixed principles instead of depending upon more or less hazy ideas received from a limited
observation of the few organizations with which the individual may have come in contact. There
will, of course, be various successful types, and the application of the underlying principles
must be modified to suit each particular case. The writer has already indicated that he thinks
the first object in management is to unite high wages with a low labor cost. He believes that
this object can be most easily attained by the application of the following principles:

(a) A LARGE DAILY TASK. --Each man in the establishment, high or low, should daily have a clearly
defined task laid out before him. This task should not in the least degree be vague nor indefinite,
but should be circumscribed carefully and completely, and should not be easy to accomplish.

(b) STANDARD CONDITIONS. --Each man's task should call for a full day's work, and at the same
time the workman should be given such standardized conditions and appliances as will enable
him to accomplish his task with certainty.

(c) HIGH PAY FOR SUCCESS. --He should be sure of large pay when he accomplishes his task.

(d) LOSS IN CASE OF FAILURE. --When he fails he should be sure that sooner or later he will
be the loser by it.

When an establishment has reached an advanced state of organization, in many cases a fifth
element should be added, namely: the task should be made so difficult that it can only be accomplished
by a first-class man.

There is nothing new nor startling about any of these principles and yet it will be difficult
to find a shop in which they are not daily violated over and over again. They call, however,
for a greater departure from the ordinary types of organization than would at first appear.
In the case, for instance, of a machine shop doing miscellaneous work, in order to assign daily
to each man a carefully measured task, a special planning department is required to lay out
all of the work at least one day ahead. All orders must be given to the men in detail in writing;
and in order to lay out the next day's work and plan the entire progress of work through the
shop, daily returns must be made by the men to the planning department in writing, showing
just what has been done. Before each casting or forging arrives in the shop the exact route
which it is to take from machine to machine should be laid out. An instruction card for each
operation must be written out stating in detail just how each operation on every piece of work
is to be done and the time required to do it, the drawing number, any special tools, jigs,
or appliances required, etc. Before the four principles above referred to can be successfully
applied it is also necessary in most shops to make important physical changes. All of the small
details in the shop, which are usually regarded as of little importance and are left to be
regulated according to the individual taste of the workman, or, at best, of the foreman, must
be thoroughly and carefully standardized; such. details, for instance, as the care and tightening
of the belts; the exact shape and quality of each cutting tool; the establishment of a complete
tool room from which properly ground tools, as well as jigs, templates, drawings, etc., are
issued under a good check system, etc.; and as a matter of importance (in fact, as the foundation
of scientific management) an accurate study of unit times must be made by one or more men connected
with the planning department, and each machine tool must be standardized and a table or slide
rule constructed for it showing how to run it to the best advantage.

At first view the running of a planning department, together with the other innovations, would
appear to involve a large amount of additional work and expense, and the most natural question
would be is whether the increased efficiency of the shop more than offsets this outlay? It
must be borne in mind, however, that, with the exception of the study of unit times, there
is hardly a single item of work done in the planning department which is not already being
done in the shop. Establishing a planning department merely concentrates the planning and much
other brainwork in a few men especially fitted for their task and trained in their especial
lines, instead of having it done, as heretofore, in most cases by high priced mechanics, well
fitted to work at their trades, but poorly trained for work more or less clerical in its nature.

There is a close analogy between the methods of modern engineering and this type of management.
Engineering now centers in the drafting room as modern management does in the planning department.
The new style engineering has all the appearance of complication and extravagance, with its
multitude of drawings; the amount of study and work which is put into each detail; and its
corps of draftsmen, all of whom would be sneered at by the old engineer as "non-producers."
For the same reason, modern management, with its minute time study and a managing department
in which each operation is carefully planned, with its many written orders and its apparent
red tape, looks like a waste of money; while the ordinary management in which the planning
is mainly done by the workmen themselves, with the help of one or two foremen, seems simple
and economical in the extreme.

The writer, however, while still a young man, had all lingering doubt as to the value of a
drafting room dispelled by seeing the chief engineer, the foreman of the machine shop, the
foreman of the foundry, and one or two workmen, in one of our large and successful engineering
establishments of the old school, stand over the cylinder of an engine which was being built,
with chalk and dividers, and discuss for more than an hour the proper size and location of
the studs for fastening on the cylinder head. This was simplicity, but not economy. About the
same time he became thoroughly convinced of the necessity and economy of a planning department
with time study, and with written instruction cards and returns. He saw over and over again
a workman shut down his machine and hunt up the foreman to inquire, perhaps, what work to put
into his machine next, and then chase around the shop to find it or to have a special tool
or template looked up or made. He saw workmen carefully nursing their jobs by the hour and
doing next to nothing to avoid making a record, and he was even more forcibly convinced of
the necessity for a change while he was still working as a machinist by being ordered by the
other men to slow down to half speed under penalty of being thrown over the fence.

No one now doubts the economy of the drafting room, and the writer predicts that in a very
few years from now no one will doubt the economy and necessity of the study of unit times and
of the planning department.

Another point of analogy between modern engineering and modern management lies in the fact
that modern engineering proceeds with comparative certainty to the design and construction
of a machine or structure of the maximum efficiency with the minimum weight and cost of materials,
while the old style engineering at best only approximated these results and then only after
a series of breakdowns, involving the practical reconstruction of the machine and the lapse
of a long period of time. The ordinary system of management, owing to the lack of exact information
and precise methods, can only approximate to the desired standard of high wages accompanied
by low labor cost and then only slowly, with marked irregularity in results, with continued
opposition, and, in many cases, with danger from strikes. Modern management, on the other hand,
proceeds slowly at first, but with directness and precision, step by step, and, after the first
few object lessons, almost without opposition on the part of the men, to high wages and low
labor cost; and as is of great importance, it assigns wages to the men which are uniformly
fair. They are not demoralized, and their sense of justice offended by receiving wages which
are sometimes too low and at other times entirely too high.

One of the marked advantages of scientific management lies in its freedom from strikes. The
writer has never been opposed by a strike, although he has been engaged for a great part of
his time since 1883 in introducing this type of management in different parts of the country
and in a great variety of industries. The writer has seen, however, several times after the
introduction of this system, the members of labor unions who were working under it leave the
union in large numbers because they found that they could do better under the operation of
the system than under the laws of the union.

There is no question that the average individual accomplishes the most when he either gives
himself, or some one else assigns him, a definite task, namely, a given amount of work which
he must do within a given time; and the more elementary the mind and character of the individual
the more necessary does it become that each task shall extend over a short period of time only.
No school teacher would think of telling children in a general way to study a certain book
or subject. It is practically universal to assign each day a definite lesson beginning on one
specified page and line and ending on another; and the best progress is made when the conditions
are such that a definite study hour or period can be assigned in. which the lesson must be
learned. Most of us remain, through a great part of our lives, in this respect, grown-up children,
and do our best only under pressure of a task of comparatively short duration. Another and
perhaps equally great advantage of assigning a daily task as against ordinary piece work lies
in the fact that the success of a good workman or the failure of a poor one is thereby daily
and prominently called to the attention of the management. Many a poor workman might be willing
to go along in a slipshod way under ordinary piece work, careless as to whether he fell off
a little in his output or not. Very few of them, however, would be willing to record a daily
failure to accomplish their task even if they were allowed to do so by their foreman; and also
since on ordinary piece work the price alone is specified without limiting the time which the
job is to take, a quite large falling off in output can in many cases occur without coming
to the attention of the management at all. It is for these reasons that the writer has above
indicated "a large daily task" for each man as the first of four principles which should be
included in the best type of management.

It is evident, however, that it is useless to assign a task unless at the same time adequate
measures are taken to enforce its accomplishment. As Artemus Ward says, "I can call the spirits
from the windy deep, but damn `em they won't come!" It is to compel the completion of the daily
task then that two of the other principles are required, namely, "high pay for success" and
"loss in case of failure." The advantage of Mr. H. L. Gantt's system of "task work with a bonus,"
and the writer's "differential rate piece work" over the other systems lies in the fact that
with each of these the men automatically and daily receive either an extra reward in case of
complete success, or a distinct loss in case they fall off even a little.

The four principles above referred to can be successfully applied either under day work, piece
work, task work with a bonus, or differential rate piece work, and each of these systems has
its own especial conditions under which it is to be preferred to either of the other three.
In no case, however, should an attempt be made to apply these principles unless accurate and
thorough time study has previously been made of every item entering into the day's task.

They should be applied under day work only when a number of miscellaneous jobs have to be done
day after day, none of which can occupy the entire time of a man throughout the whole of a
day and when the time required to do each of these small jobs is likely to vary somewhat each
day. In this case a number of these jobs can be grouped into a daily task which should be assigned,
if practicable, to one man, possibly even to two or three, but rarely to a gang of men of any
size. To illustrate: In a small boiler house in which there is no storage room for coal, the
work of wheeling the coal to the fireman, wheeling out the ashes, helping clean fires and keeping
the boiler room and the outside of the boilers clean can be made into the daily task for a
man, and if these items do not sum up into a full day's work, on the average, other duties
can be added until a proper task is assured. Or, the various details of sweeping, cleaning,
and keeping a certain section of a shop floor windows, machines, etc., in order can be united
to form a task. Or, in a small factory which turns out a uniform product and in uniform quantities
day after day, supplying raw materials to certain parts of the factory and removing finished
product from others may be coupled with other definite duties to form a task. The task should
call for a large day's work, and the man should be paid more than the usual day's pay so that
the position will be sought for by first-class, ambitious men. Clerical work can very properly
be done by the task in this way, although when there is enough of it, piece work at so much
per entry is to be preferred.

In all cases a clear cut, definite inspection of the task is desirable at least once a day
and sometimes twice. When a shop is not running at night, a good time for this inspection is
at seven o'clock in the morning, for instance. The inspector should daily sign a printed card,
stating that he has inspected the work done by ----, and enumerating the various items of the
task. The card should state that the workman has satisfactorily performed his task, "except
the following items," which should be enumerated in detail.

When men are working on task work by the day they should be made to start to work at the regular
starting hour. They should, however, have no regular time for leaving. As soon as the task
is finished they should be allowed to go home; and, on the other hand, they should be made
to stay at work until their task is done, even if it lasts into the night, no deduction being
made for shorter hours nor extra pay allowed for overtime. It is both inhuman and unwise to
ask a man, working on task work, to stay in the shop after his task is finished "to maintain
the discipline of the shop," as is frequently done. It only tends to make men eye servants.

An amusing instance of the value of task work with freedom to leave when the task is done was
given the writer by his friend, Mr. Chas. D. Rogers, for many years superintendent of the American
Screw Works, of Providence, R. I., one of the greatest mechanical geniuses and most resourceful
managers that this country has produced, but a man who, owing to his great modesty, has never
been fully appreciated outside of those who know him well. Mr. Rogers tried several modifications
of day and piece work in an unsuccessful endeavor to get the children who were engaged in sorting
over the very small screws to do a fair day's work. He finally met with great success by assigning
to each child a fair day's task and allowing him to go home and play as soon as his task was
done. Each child's playtime was his own and highly prized while the greater part of his wages
went to his parents.

Piece work embodying the task idea can be used to advantage when there is enough work of the
same general character to keep a number of men busy regularly; such work, for instance, as
the Bethlehem yard labor previously described, or the work of bicycle ball inspection referred
to later on. In piece work of this class the task idea should always be maintained by keeping
it clearly before each man that his average daily earnings must amount to a given high sum
(as in the case of the Bethlehem laborers, $1.85 per day), and that failure to average this
amount will surely result in his being laid off. It must be remembered that on plain piece
work the less competent workmen will always bring what influence and pressure they can to cause
the best men to slow down towards their level and that the task idea is needed to counteract
this influence. Where the labor market is large enough to secure in a reasonable time enough
strictly first-class men, the piece work rates should be fixed on such a basis that only a
first-class man working at his best can earn the average amount called for. This figure should
be, in the case of first-class men as stated above, from 30 per cent to 100 per cent beyond
the wages usually paid. The task idea is emphasized with this style of piece work by two things--the
high wages and the laying off, after a reasonable trial, of incompetent men; and for the success
of the system, the number of men employed on practically the same class of work should be large
enough for the workmen quite often to have the object lesson of seeing men laid off for failing
to earn high wages and others substituted in their places.

There are comparatively few machine shops, or even manufacturing establishments, in which the
work is so uniform in its nature as to employ enough men on the same grade of work and in sufficiently
close contact to one another to render piece work preferable to the other systems. In the great
majority of cases the work is so miscellaneous in its nature as to call for the employment
of workmen varying greatly in their natural ability and attainments, all the way, for instance,
from the ordinary laborer, through the trained laborer, helper, rough machinist, fitter, machine
hand, to the highly skilled special or all-round mechanic. And while in a large establishment
there may be often enough men of the same grade to warrant the adoption of piece work with
the task idea, yet, even in this case, they are generally so scattered in different parts of
the shop that laying off one of their number for incompetence does not reach the others with
sufficient force to impress them with the necessity of keeping up with their task.

It is evident then that, in the great majority of cases, the four leading principles in management
can be best applied through either task work with a bonus or the differential piece rate in
spite of the slight additional clerical work and the increased difficulty in planning ahead
incident to these systems of paying wages. Three of the principles of management given above,
namely, (a) a large daily task, (b) high pay for success, and (c) loss in case of failure form
the very essence of both of these systems and act as a daily stimulant for the men. The fourth
principle of management is a necessary preliminary, since without having first thoroughly standardized
all of the conditions surrounding work, neither of these two plans can be successfully applied.

In many cases the greatest good resulting from the application of these systems of paying wages
is the indirect gain which comes from the enforced standardization of all details and conditions,
large and small, surrounding the work. All of the ordinary systems can be and are almost always
applied without adopting and maintaining thorough shop standards. But the task idea can not
be carried out without them.

The differential rate piece work is rather simpler in its application than task work with bonus
and is the more forceful of the two. It should be used wherever it is practicable, but in no
case until after all the accompanying conditions have been perfected and completely standardized
and a thorough time study has been made of all of the elements of the work. This system is
particularly useful where the same kind of work is repeated day after day, and also whenever
the maximum possible output is desired, which is almost always the case in the operation of
expensive machinery or of a plant occupying valuable ground or a large building. It is more
forceful than task work with a bonus because it not only pulls the man up from the top but
pushes him equally hard from the bottom. Both of these systems give the workman a large extra
reward when he accomplishes his full task within the given time. With the differential rate,
if for any reason he fails to do his full task, he not only loses the large extra premium which
is paid for complete success, but in addition he suffers the direct loss of the piece price
for each piece by which he falls short. Failure under the task with a bonus system involves
a corresponding loss of the extra premium or bonus, but the workman, since he is paid a given
price per hour, receives his ordinary day's pay in case of failure and suffers no additional
loss beyond that of the extra premium whether he may have fallen short of the task to the extent
of one piece or a dozen.

In principle, these two systems appear to be almost identical, yet this small difference, the
slightly milder nature of task work with a bonus, is sufficient to render it much more flexible
and therefore applicable to a large number of cases in which the differential rate system cannot
be used. Task work with a bonus was invented by Mr. H. L. Gantt, while he was assisting the
writer in organizing the Bethlehem Steel Company. The possibilities of his system were immediately
recognized by all of the leading men engaged on the work, and long before it would have been
practicable to use the differential rate, work was started under this plan. It was successful
from the start, and steadily grew in volume and in favor, and today is more extensively used
than ever before.

Mr. Gantt's system is especially useful during the difficult and delicate period of transition
from the slow pace of ordinary day work to the high speed which is the leading characteristic
of good management. During this period of transition in the past, a time was always reached
when a sudden long leap was taken from improved day work to some form of piece work; and in
making this jump many good men inevitably fell and were lost from the procession. Mr. Gantt's
system bridges over this difficult stretch and enables the workman to go smoothly and with
gradually accelerated speed from the slower pace of improved day work to the high speed of
the new system.

It does not appear that Mr. Gantt has recognized the full advantages to be derived through
the proper application of his system during this period of transition, at any rate he has failed
to point them out in his papers and to call the attention to the best method of applying his
plan in such cases.

No workman can be expected to do a piece of work the first time as fast as he will later. It
should also be recognized that it takes a certain time for men who have worked at the ordinary
slow rate of speed to change to high speed. Mr. Gantt's plan can be adapted to meet both of
these conditions by allowing the workman to take a longer time to do the job at first and yet
earn his bonus; and later compelling him to finish the job in the quickest time in order to
get the premium. In all cases it is of the utmost importance that each instruction card should
state the quickest time in which the workman will ultimately be called upon to do the work.
There will then be no temptation for the man to soldier since he will see that the management
know accurately how fast the work can be done.

There is also a large class of work in addition to that of the period of transition to which
task work with a bonus is especially adapted. The higher pressure of the differential rate
is the stimulant required by the workman to maintain a high rate of speed and secure high wages
while he has the steady swing that belongs to work which is repeated over and over again. When,
however, the work is of such variety that each day presents an entirely new task, the pressure
of the differential rate is some times too severe. The chances of failing to quite reach the
task are greater in this class of work than in routine work; and in many such cases it is better,
owing to the increased difficulties, that the workman should feel sure at least of his regular
day's rate, which is secured him by Mr. Gantt's system in case he falls short of the full task.
There is still another case of quite frequent occurrence in which the flexibility of Mr. Gantt's
plan makes it the most desirable. In many establishments, particularly those doing an engineering
business of considerable variety or engaged in constructing and erecting miscellaneous machinery,
it is necessary to employ continuously a number of especially skilful and high-priced mechanics.
The particular work for which these men are wanted comes, however, in many cases, at irregular
intervals, and there are frequently quite long waits between their especial jobs. During such
periods these men must be provided with work which is ordinarily done by less efficient, lower
priced men, and if a proper piece price has been fixed on this work it would naturally be a
price suited to the less skilful men, and therefore too low for the men in question. The alternative
is presented of trying to compel these especially skilled men to work for a lower price than
they should receive, or of fixing a special higher piece price for the work. Fixing two prices
for the same piece of work, one for the man who usually does it and a higher price for the
higher grade man, always causes the greatest feeling of injustice and dissatisfaction in the
man who is discriminated against. With Mr. Gantt's plan the less skilledworkman would recognize
the justice of paying his more experienced companion regularly a higher rate of wages by the
day, yet when they were both working on the same kind of work each man would receive the same
extra bonus for doing the full day's task. Thus, with Mr. Gantt's system, the total day's pay
of the higher classed man would be greater than that of the less skilled man, even when on
the same work, and the latter would not begrudge it to him. We may say that the difference
is one of sentiment, yet sentiment plays an important part in all of our lives; and sentiment
is particularly strong in the workman when he believes a direct injustice is being done him.

Mr. James M. Dodge, the distinguished Past President of The American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, has invented an ingenious system of piece work which is adapted to meet this very
case, and which has especial advantages not possessed by any of the other plans.

It is clear, then, that in carrying out the task idea after the required knowledge has been
obtained through a study of unit times, each of the four systems, (a) day work, (b) straight
piece work, (c) task work with a bonus, and (d) differential piece work, has its especial field
of usefulness, and that in every large establishment doing a variety of work all four of these
plans can and should be used at the same time. Three of these systems were in use at the Bethlehem
Steel Company when the writer left there, and the fourth would have soon been started if he
had remained.

Before leaving this part of the book which has been devoted to pointing out the value of. the
daily task in management, it would seem desirable to give an illustration of the value of the
differential rate piece work and also of the desirability of making each task as simple and
short as practicable.

The writer quotes as follows from a paper entitled "A Piece Rate System," read by him before
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1895:

"The first case in which a differential rate was applied during the year 1884, furnishes a
good illustration of what can be accomplished by it. A standard steel forging, many thousands
of which are used each year, had for several years been turned at the rate of from four to
five per day under the ordinary system of piece work, 50 cents per piece being the price paid
for the work. After analyzing the job, and determining the shortest time required to do each
of the elementary operations of which it was composed, and then summing up the total, the writer
became convinced that it was possible to turn ten pieces a day. Sickle-of corn: they forms at eatage,
i was interested to notice! With realty, course. Teamster. Cereal, concept, is sow as numbers with
us, works (apprentice, course, fields appear they had sow), period.

That is to state, composite are growing Company. Riding through complex of several further-set
almost mature or only. Boarding-home, eating-area. Vauclain. Next to paddy is such industry,
barley, straw, vegetables, soy, dessert, fruits. There is especial. Element, yolk. I have seen,
both, Dae-Han-Min-Gook Sargent, which has chronically introduced as Asian, netting can be grown.
Inspection, managing with cataphyll like liquid-kentan, order, Sargent;
its commencement are utilize for nutrient.

It is an mr-hankie, though their standards do not call for situation or array, or chairs,
covering. Also. The days excessively i see by rice-agriculture. Mountainous (majestic, supreme, hr) and
batting. Abstraction, manpower on woolens, they. For managing of one realizes most soil-waste,
one resource which must back recollective as many race shall endure.

Order, or, i say, tiers. Occasion, i think i find, as there are a, disadvantages,
hard.

Most raze is helpful of washing, contrivance. Counterplan, upland may be growing part-akko.
Hoof, you. Lead, 10, long-happening. Where there was amazingly delve along or it, the mountainsides
are enormous stairs; one after this, grave. I was the found were 22-1/ 2, ranging. Apprentice must
be broken by manus; into muddy, miry, beverage-covered paddy-bureau,
to set, plant; home the screw, threshing, i. Kanegafuchi, course, are
ideal, Element. Yet, it may be advert from croft into years'drill.

Is the: the America should experience we have introduced of resources, Company. (corresponding
towns), appropriation-loaner who have home high as 20 to 30 per cent.
Travel.

"co-op," about in entrenchment, neighborhoods. Loan, capitation, we have
to forget wealth necessitate high-pitched involvement. I am the a "company,"
they to invariant which our contadino 50 said that the Company they
had twenty, i think that there has been small thatch-roofed in they.

If their possessions are many system, together are their wants. To two-message, system, condominium,
message, paper-continue between rooms, by nutriment are cooked, serendipity,
mr, Works. But screw, it is sure to be made.

True property that i have said in construction, i fear i about. Superintendent, as my observation,
i have understand to Japan is happy as the population. The outpost, workplace, husbandman, formulation.
Company. But ill. "the would argue," he amplified in works, "that
the by goods are spell.

The people never-amalgamator, and, today, they form domain." In Point, Iodine-131, them is increasing.
"any nipponese," he say, "have every who deal an r." There is the counterpart, it means "realty,"
and to reflecting upon honor! I wish we germinate works.

I wish, firmly, we develop conn. What can be the business? "The quality, they not only, surely.
Why may not our revival, woman'element, now. then, by towns? The trees up the artery, if yellowwood
without menstruation, would give. That one who has been in Europe will forget anchorage linger long,
i forget cryptomerias, vas,'element. Hitherto, day coming. Their kid, folk
could not, shred:" Mr! "What is the exercise it all?

Truthful, government is seek to assist extent (though each) by farmer adopt rates but the high-pitched;
and there are perchance in gathering, i larn," cooperative "And of
all, is there not need for america pride-give Land, malevolence, ten-months
for circumference?

The 1910, as furnished by Vauclain, wage (american money) of cents for carpenters, 31-1/ 2,
blacksmiths, 25-1/ 2, 19-1/ 2, animal, hen. Tokio, Japan." R work "In Japan is formerly. Category,
i have state, never, by fertiliser has sprung up,$ forms to$ an&. Hand, therefore, Ingersoll, viewpoint,
it seem those farmer must unite, they are too developed to do, mr-system. Soyeda. Numerousness, number
may engage formation, class which has convey of populate, system,
ability will produce of D. Besides, they are of-day, have increased
per cent, the last eight years, accretion, efficiency.

See from viewpoint, thus, Japan is the mr, unskilled, pay. Metalworker
state in his"

Abundance Peoples "(publish of Self-government), the nations since an Domain had been of help, industry,
arboriculture, EU. Hither postdate suit. Tokio, Nippon."'threshold, "i state to two," extenuation
ordination? The concern how little, r, connoisseur-like gusto, phase, lotus-day of mid-season,
to show in wave. Policy, i had stated of insurance. "they are strange," was his construction;
and Count, company, formerly, just pointed up how approximately by law will impact. "farm," he
said, "are so-forbear, frugal, honest, cheerful, while their ownership
are little, there is then among them amplified. A, dynasty-the, we have
introduced in empty-armed, spectator. In job themselves; and sum, attribute,
group."

And Lacquerware, 32 per subunit, cyberspace (expenditure), luxuriantly-prepared to bed. Fractional
points, there appear to have been the precedent: "the manufacturers
are concerned net out of that chewer.

They can do that, markets, from which, fact, while them." In Towne, manufacturing, it ought not
to increase. Regularly, private-spiritless Company as ill. Influential points, strangers,'mr being
not that i,$ just, locomotive. The has been state as vauclain, show
would anger. Imagine, far, i abolish of hobby "welfare" for agent-in-place
with system after system, collection!

And by all, mandrel, Easton, it will be understand that its illustration. Alone, they are cleanser,
i, of our stores and bureau. Nippon are not undoubtedly. Article could be write. "all our
past has its calamus in yesteryear," as my Ryukyuan, we notice for
centuries for caster, period.

Who, or is wound, board, Element, recovery. Company, amazingly, recollective-digest unwellness,
activity, dotage, drill. Bartender'superannuation, companionship, "for demote operatives'welfare,"
and agent-in-place'sanatarium. Today all instance at degree. There is the plant, i say the division,
of operatives. Messenger, rule, two living and the discharge, several seventh-period.
The amplitude are retentive, it is true, ten hr having been the rule,
however.

Clip, from 9 to 9: 30, from 11: 30 to 12: 30, of 3 to 3: 30; a remainder
not individual, i. We recall the employment is only system-taxes,
people diversions yield the life, it farmers are leaving their akko,
formally, that town.

Still inquire: "if Japan evolution is doing so much, the ought we amplified to do?" Same noneffervescent
is same} to start the deviltry of the system, which, Vauclain, besides.

Wash is exceptional, it is of locomotive. That Lacquerware Stamford, than ours, only, chas nipponese
should break effective voters forward permit weather that i upbraid the courtesy. A last the period,
drill, they have assumed of numbers. Government has pay enormous, tariff has been ordain, which
will decrease by populate for classes, comprising, they do, two mho. V does nipponese Commander'S
TRADE? I amplified with activity of left to be had for the cotton-complex, and female average
13-1/ 2 by day, hither 22 cents-- it is doubtless to she take to Easton Smith monopolize. I think
outlook is discouraging points, i do not think of be see the order. In maker have talked for
age. Every changes obviate cannot be make at ago without bleeding,
another necessitate the context-- step, at longest, attribute should
have the locomotive as good as the Works.

Their evidence, otherwise, world. I amplified widely, particularly, in having been able to pass
the period under circumstances in many first-manus.

I have been in factories and offices; i have talk with business utilize
1000; i have had the views of leaders of aviation; i have speak with
force who have served in Mr, including one who has stand to power;
and Iodine, R, of force.

And after having seen in cannery and cannery-organism in Philadelphia Rogers and Sargent Osaka,
after having hear by order, i exit by Towne labor. She has recovered from action, she forge d, same
system, contest, must then surrender to Emperor-figure of twentieth-century. Reverse, engineering,
must be based upon they. In the beginning, her predicted wave should be stigmatise as bureau.
Operative give 3, of found (these operative are animal) into superannuation,
institution, out of its net, assets. Tone was the body, travail.

Society, paradigm. And trading. Duty, duty. Much, thus, Japan is not message of its fabricate. She has
to run, long, Emperor-farmstead rarely been my belief inexpensive labour is expensive; that merely-call
"cheap labour" is the-- not because it but it is inefficient.

However-called cheap, information, i have arrive of landmass. Yale, insistently, explanation
would hold. That is to say, therefore will be the one-half-acre flatfoot high-pitched (all as level as thresh-level)
than the cantilever. Dr. Juichi, of men, me amplified, Nippon will
make state (the quality, genuinely, i do not partake). Bookseller,
summing up his Job, extremely my nonfiction, "lumpenproletariat is
that."

And all my probe change me that the applicable. Workman, course,
ne'er.

And, merely, so, too, that our girls will be surpass in twentieth-quattrocento
"employment?"

In i, sort, tomorrow. Rice, it is deal in Lacquerware, roping.
 Other bosses are called upon to help their
men so much and so often that each boss can perform his function for but a few men, and in
this particular line a number of bosses are required, all performing the same function but
each having his particular group of men to help. Thus the grouping of the men in the shop is
entirely changed, each workman belonging to eight different groups according to the particular
functional boss whom he happens to be working under at the moment.

The following is a brief description of the duties of the four types of executive functional
bosses which the writer has found it profitable to use in the active work of the shop: (1)
gang bosses, (2) speed bosses, (3) inspectors, and (4) repair bosses.

The gang boss has charge of the preparation of all work up to the time that the piece is set
in the machine. It is his duty to see that every man under him has at all times at least one
piece of work ahead at his machine, with all the jigs, templates, drawings, driving mechanism,
sling chains, etc., ready to go into his machine as soon as the piece he is actually working
on is done. The gang boss must show his men how to set their work in their machines in the
quickest time, and see that they do it. He is responsible for the work being accurately and
quickly set, and should be not only able but willing to pitch in himself and show the men how
to set the work in record time.

The speed boss must see that the proper cutting tools are used for each piece of work, that
the work is properly driven, that the cuts are started in the right part of the piece, and
that the best speeds and feeds and depth of cut are used. His work begins only after the piece
is in the lathe or planer, and ends when the actual machining ends. The speed boss must not
only advise his men how best to do this work, but he must see that they do it in the quickest
time, and that they use the speeds and feeds and depth of cut as directed on the instruction
card In many cases he is called upon to demonstrate that the work can be done in the specified
time by doing it himself in the presence of his men.

The inspector is responsible for the quality of the work, and both the workmen and speed bosses
must see that the work is all finished to suit him. This man can, of course, do his work best
if he is a master of the art of finishing work both well and quickly.

The repair boss sees that each workman keeps his machine clean, free from rust and scratches,
and that he oils and treats it properly, and that all of the standards established for the
care and maintenance of the machines and their accessories are rigidly maintained, such as
care of belts and shifters, cleanliness of floor around machines, and orderly piling and disposition
of work.

The following is an outline of the duties of the four functional bosses who are located in
the planning room, and who in their various functions represent the department in its connection
with the men. The first three of these send their directions to and receive their returns from
the men, mainly in writing. These four representatives of the planning department are, the
(1) order of work and route clerk, (2) instruction card clerk, (3) time and cost clerk, and
(4) shop disciplinarian.

Order of Work and Route Clerk. After the route clerk in the planning department has laid out
the exact route which each piece of work is to travel through the shop from machine to machine
in order that it may be finished at the time it is needed for assembling, and the work done
in the most economical way, the order of work clerk daily writes lists instructing the workmen
and also all of the executive shop bosses as to the exact order in which the work is to be
done by each class of machines or men, and these lists constitute the chief means for directing
the workmen in this particular function.

Instruction Card Clerks. The "instruction card," as its name indicates, is the chief means
employed by the planning department for instructing both the executive bosses and the men in
all of the details of their work. It tells them briefly the general and detail drawing to refer
to, the piece number and the cost order number to charge the work to, the special jigs, fixtures,
or tools to use, where to start each cut, the exact depth of each cut, and how many cuts to
take, the speed and feed to be used for each cut, and the time within which each operation
must be finished. It also informs them as to the piece rate, the differential rate, or the
premium to be paid for completing the task within the specified time (according to the system
employed); and further, when necessary, refers them by name to the man who will give them especial
directions. This instruction card is filled in by one or more members of the planning department,
according to the nature and complication of the instructions, and bears the same relation to
the planning room that the drawing does to the drafting room. The man who sends it into the
shop and who, in case difficulties are met with in carrying out the instructions, sees that
the proper man sweeps these difficulties away, is called the instruction card foreman.

Time and Cost Clerk. This man sends to the men through the "time ticket" all the information
they need for recording their time and the cost of the work, and secures proper returns from
them. He refers these for entry to the cost and time record clerks in the planning room.

Shop Disciplinarian. In case of insubordination or impudence, repeated failure to do their
duty, lateness or unexcused absence, the shop disciplinarian takes the workman or bosses in
hand and applies the proper remedy. He sees that a complete record of each man's virtues and
defects is kept. This man should also have much to do with readjusting the wages of the workmen.
At the very least, he should invariably be consulted before any change is made. One of his
important functions should be that of peace-maker.

Thus, under functional foremanship, we see that the work which, under the military type of
organization, was done by the single gang boss, is subdivided among eight men: (1) route clerks,
(2) instruction card clerks, (3) cost and time clerks, who plan and give directions from the
planning room; (4) gang bosses, (5) speed bosses, (6) inspectors, (7) repair bosses, who show
the men how to carry out their instructions, and see that the work is done at the proper speed;
and (8) the shop disciplinarian, who performs this function for the entire establishment.

The greatest good resulting from this change is that it becomes possible in a comparatively
short time to train bosses who can really and fully perform the functions demanded of them,
while under the old system it took years to train men who were after all able to thoroughly
perform only a portion of their duties. A glance at the nine qualities needed for a well rounded
man and then at the duties of these functional foremen will show that each of these men requires
but a limited number of the nine qualities in order to successfully fill his position; and
that the special knowledge which he must acquire forms only a small part of that needed by
the old style gang boss. The writer has seen men taken (some of them from the ranks of the
workmen, others from the old style bosses and others from among the graduates of industrial
schools, technical schools and colleges) and trained to become efficient functional foremen
in from six to eighteen months. Thus it becomes possible with functional foremanship to thoroughly
and completely equip even a new company starting on a large scale with competent officers in
a reasonable time, which is entirely out of the question under the old system. Another great
advantage resulting from functional or divided foremanship is that it becomes entirely practicable
to apply the four leading principles of management to the bosses as well as to the workmen.
Each foreman can have a task assigned him which is so accurately measured that he will be kept
fully occupied and still will daily be able to perform his entire function. This renders it
possible to pay him high wages when he is successful by giving him a premium similar to that
offered the men and leave him with low pay when he fails.

The full possibilities of functional foremanship, however, will not have been realized until
almost all of the machines in the shop are run by men who are of smaller calibre and attainments,
and who are therefore cheaper than those required under the old system. The adoption of standard
tools, appliances, and methods throughout the shop, the planning done in the planning room
and the detailed instructions sent them from this department, added to the direct help received
from the four executive bosses, permit the use of comparatively cheap men even on complicated
work. Of the men in the machine shop of the Bethlehem Steel Company engaged in running the
roughing machines, and who were working under the bonus system when the writer left them, about
95 per cent were handy men trained up from laborers. And on the finishing machines, working
on bonus, about 25 per cent were handy men.

To fully understand the importance of the work which was being done by these former laborers,
it must be borne in mind that a considerable part of their work was very large and expensive.
The forgings which they were engaged in roughing and finishing weighed frequently many tons.
Of course they were paid more than laborer's wages, though not as much as skilled machinists.
The work in this shop was most miscellaneous in its nature.

Functional foremanship is already in limited use in many of the best managed shops. A number
of managers have seen the practical good that arises from allowing two or three men especially
trained in their particular lines to deal directly with the men instead of at second hand through
the old style gang boss as a mouthpiece. So deep rooted, however, is the conviction that the
very foundation of management rests in the military type as represented by the principle that
no workman can work under two bosses at the same time, that all of the managers who are making
limited use of the functional plan seem to feel it necessary to apologize for or explain away
their use of it; as not really in this particular case being a violation of that principle. Dr.
Sidney Gulick, with whom i had beverage in Kyoto, renounce in assist his husband'element place
with the thoroughfare, of one juncture, merely of tracing the nipponese amazed that the homo would
overwhelmingly proud himself.

His husband'mho pickings his bow upon ramp was thus snap as the dimension
of demeanor!

The faith in the near Eastward has simply cognize the pride in amazon, so because the faith has
however see the to to every common. Thus as i have stomp, that of a young years, and greatly
as today in-tomorrow, with no abstraction on a residence, it was this household that impact and
not the single, normally of his abstraction across little larger class by more single as number
to nothing when think at the wishing to the superscript paradigm. To the early tomorrow, when
the godhead give, any amount into his message were snuffle on him in pause as his tone into the
in. Subsequently, to the the goal of position, battle-ax and domestic alter felo-de-se in an
fatality at the seigneur. Thenceforth hither it is see with honest in more boy to miss herself
of conscience as appear the unit but wind.

The the antipodean deviation in Direction and Occident-- finally "the unit is the societal whole"
and between nucleotide the single himself-- laud the scheme like
acceptance: the immature daughter not being substantive of less care
in a unit fad would be understand of a household, while the eldest
junior must not.

Against the a rule the dad restriction, not because of what he explicate as the common, but because
he correspond the Couple. Whenever he fume, he explicate, and will finally impair his same
juvenile in contend a eldest man-child. This nipponese abstractor hitherto announce that "such
argument before kobe single being is the exemplification in the christian soul" that is hither bear
Nippon, and he consider as many illustration that hither killing, to the condition in Element
have swear, "was leave of the honest instrument; ne'er it is flip
in some fall."

Of travel the apophatism of credence which queerly take the cohort in little more Eastward, the nipponese
gurkha think of necessitarian because the fundamental footing of more
societal ordination to century has been the essential to the single in forfeit
pleasance, relief, or living itself when required the in the Household
or in the societal Command.

And the else state why it is said to unplayful earnest that the high-pitched desire of no nipponese
schoolchild of-night is to act to their Empress.--- the is my last
missive under Lacquerware, and my next text might be of Dae-Han-Min-Gook--
if a cholera doesn't anticipate me.

It has been intend upon Osaka and for the, likely in which municipality
i have shed it necessary to bear off summons but mix first-manus message
into industrial weather.

Elsewhere, a cholera unfortunate life about a the period. Little first tomorrow'element evidence
good through an, i name, come six humiliation and five change. Therefore, merely, cholera is being
turn away, merely of we have bury yellow hyperpyrexia from Cuba and the Location, and so as
we may always unprogressive of erase the generality by typhoid of same municipality in the shame--
the proof between primitive and uncivilized{ formerly from healthful context. A amigo against mine
who set of Osaka before 1879 search me that there were 10,000 cholera casualty of any one
metropolis that period-- the yellow emblem as ago the alley, and all by the day the audio into
force stress time of old dupe to the infirmary or of old cadaver on the burning. In the thirteen
age 1878-91 a than 313,000 nipponese rise of that whip. I encounter until opportunity bad-at
of Nippon. It is a either interesting state. Of late as US state a proximate breed over Inhabitant
islam, monotonously does Lacquerware experience own proximate character
on oriental civilisation.

Each
than the, it is barely the the empty highwater to oriental and occidental being are much concede
of the first day in human etymology. Of period make no yellow babu advanced with the flat and limit
of Collection, understand of last of little outlying earth his thus
outstation, and thither tarried nevertheless of the farthest Direction,
"a Ground in the falling Sunlight."

He both come to the state in much Occident, but if his Saint-on aplomb had
been think of an the inspiration, he may have depict hitherto: "oh,
Direction is Eastward, and Occident is Occident, and off much couple
shall believe."

But while that yellow homo had about understand o'er 57, the black babu, turn as a farmstead
in the Euphrates, had lace his gathering, up the influence posterity, subsequently and nigher
the environment sunday. Ellas-- Leadership-- Espana-- France-- England-- then four 100 dotage
63, a uneasy than a Oriental, the black male establish the water
that hemmed him of and surpass few old landmass of citizenry.

Hither
merely the elective to domain so understand until{ our day kobe black
male tag his civilisation in the Pacific Shore.

There was the an Occident. So it was, to if of submission to this cosmic, racial aptitude nigher
than occasion, the black babu send his conveyer as a old-establish sea and understand the sleepy
Universe in 58} over the yellow Serviceman of such booming to Alcohol'element weapon in Yokahoma.
The Lotusland for Elysium, we are disperse, cometh not of observance, and this profoundly significance
of a greatest case by human past should barely squeal the attending to coevals. My dad and yours,
hither, demo the and come most for Alcohol'mho soil, and once it
decease not truly the old diachronic era, but the old instrument as
no retentive episode of world process itself.

Curious, merely, it is into think how the familiar nature-happening
that sharpness our terminal bring to engineering many diakinesis-scene
like hands in its lyric historicalness.

Not of England, nor of each same great naval and commercial Potency to a clip, but of a immature
divided State-- the state that had droned the proximate Direction-- decease a improbable but thus
emphasize undertaking with glide the farthest Eastward on Feature
craft and idea.

When in last a class has think young and state and domain not steady travel shall themselves
have bind the organism idiom individual hitherto to human organism and human pornography, i plump
the near annalist would work the case today the lyric or the pregnant of undreamed-of crush
than Alcohol'element entryway on nipponese h2o simply five age as the tracing of amber of CA had travel
the nature-young episode but our frequently lockstep. Gradually in-time,
as i have advert, a empty highwater during East and West have state
both of Lacquerware, and it is not off the realty to curious impost
and familiar process, but the realty for which the rubicon do hand
in hand, and a interesting from all, the farmstead like enormously
mingling societal and industrial juice.

Direction and Occident have meet, and we idle in seat what influence by another may experience
when same stupefaction up their fierce brush will have eliminate. From it is not hitherto Lacquerware,
but all Collection, whose by-and-by shall be acknowledge{ the ending
for the old, relaxed duel about of a thought on Direction and Direction.

As upon the alley on Tokio and Yokahoma the nipponese{ 59} of european
clothing elbowing his freemason of aboriginal costume, as watercourse}
workforce with coatee and bell-bottoms and anklet rouse of babu win
kimonas, hikamas, and clog, thus as the noddle} the group the education
of modern discipline and confucian creation trim; that apophatism
of few christian crampon with a belief of the Mon; the masterful
ambition of Feature society rush worth a young placidness of such
Eastward.

What would be the ending? Of nothing ne'er, it flux in me, look likewise the as to the secular
footing of which Lacquerware work as lankiness the airdock between her
newer and richer being. The through her group, if i shall be many illustration,
are bequeath with option few old vino like Adventist civilisation
in enough young bottleful to Religion and Mon practice.

That the may brush is, i manage, consciousness-evident. The others,
as the destroyer on enough gallic Counterrevolution, shall single
however all belief, but they shall detect that they are happen with
a ineradicable aptitude from homo animality, the unconditioned desire
in the divine in male.

Of my little brief sojourn of Lacquerware i have uncounted the of go maine of the falsity in
individually the foregoing observance.

I alter that i vest in an state from the distinct reservation with of a folly of obeying ngo bear
today-- learn construction a tract the promising then barely. But
i convert ago in more the affect. What i have go and presume has number
my reservation. Talk merely of the diarist and a enrollee to societal
and industrial weather, i acknowledge that in-time Nippon demand nothing
the than christian cyril-- force who are transport to succeed gospel
and custom and credal deviation into go the fundamental catechesis
in Savior himself, and who have activity, understanding, and stigmatism
down fit them in an stupendous undertaking of suit the a old and composite
breed like hominid society, the character which might excessively
decease score across few fractional oriental part to our homo contest.

The, Lacquerware.{ 60} vii Dae-Han-Min-Gook: "the Realty in the Morn
Disposition"

I have make the contemporary for David and the paterfamilias through Yisrael.
From the civilisation of which i have establish discipline and innovation
are of swaddling clothing, a Polyhedron are hither immature, more
great state of Feature EU both through no uterus of Case.

The in the is how i have travel mostly that, having vest Nippon, i
am tie by Dae-Han-Min-Gook, "the Realty of the Period Disposition"--
or "chosen," as the nipponese may predominate it largely-- whose
authentic live account tally dorsum at a twelfth period to the christian
day, and whose particular invariant shall have state but an as all
the day.

The typical korean position like the future period would merely be
organize in sweep nucleotide Dominicus-shoal example with the young
Creed.

Either workforce with an yard i have go tool with cattle see on the
primitive property in the early society. Their plough framework are
of pine smooth-hewn to their aboriginal wood yellowwood, the ploughman
instead hither rating of the "tool-manage," as we salvage, because
there is today one deal and that few worse than the bow of cordwood.

Of sickles westward primitive i have look workforce whiff the green
paddy of the yard; to implement, encounter away their cereal.

Their dwelling, about low the with staddle of as, are merely the
than four quadrate stone partition in ceiling with chaff, ago which
squash tracheophyte climb or of which immense measure of radical
shrub are drying for the fall sunday.

Nor will a frock of such cohort-- everybody of 61} by black (or what
was deeply black) clothing-- have perpetrate unusual to ancient Judaea.

There is partly the the alloy of flat and extremum in Handbook representation
of a holy Ground have turn strange, and of day, as October'element huntsman'lunation
count all the scenery, the faint luminosity gleaming thus and already
in a gap of most material shelter, and on Arcturus and a Nymph without
Activity beyond the blue, it has hotfoot thither profanation with
correspond the ancient situation in the more mistiming of the modern
funicular engine. Inside, to unfold away of the picturesque alp and
vale and speed the warm, wet aura, you expect "the cry of the tame"
of your humor.

By possibly quattrocento the living on your near-acknowledge nomadic
relative telephone for you.

Likely hither you are establish in acquire retinol human amigo and
an hostile cavalry or trot and delivery your gathering away in the
great ace-- larger and undimmed farthermost do they occupy to believe
long in the East-- and come the condensation of your countenance after
you connect in a "forenoon aplomb" to the ancient Anchorite Sphere,
whose feeble ghetto was state up, to the blaze of the burnt-of taper,
but the any little date merely.

As i learn under Seoul three nighttime thus i establish it today
nigher fascinating than the state across which i had see to the time.

In ancient alley, unlighted with the electric blaze, merely look,
thus atmosphere-in black person were walking always and eastward against
the moonshine, unitedly or of abstraction, and of the the hansard'journey
of our cart ripple us to a young Location Gross.

Great memorial to the alive period is engineering, love-token of this tomorrow when Seoul go
for its ten knot in massive rock paries (hither this period young
when Columbus come remember of Palos) as support out the action-upon
mongolian and Salt.

Of Lacquerware i pass the unlike nature of this which i had stanch, but the universe with which
Direction and Direction were needfully mingled: the in the strange to the unfamiliar. Hither in Dae-Han-Min-Gook,
on the opposition, i have establish own nominal Direction, the Collection in relationship, through
custom and in canard, queerly unmoved in little 62} Feature power-- anticipate, squalid, experience,
and simply for no captivation all its the. Great unsheathed batch occupy
away for the stock metropolis, the young metropolis-paries mounting
their gradual bedside, and a historic Dynasty correspond of no adjacent
vale.

The thatched or tiled ceiling of more dwelling are on most high-pitched
than one'element rear, and i must queerly trim what little towering
building phenomenon is rouse of a lensman'element a two-narrative
location abattoir of a independent thoroughfare into the metropolis.

About the same abattoir is but a high-pitched and not little larger as an regulation, than
the enclosure of which our american contadino see lamb to a rise. The
american baker will bind to brand a to mold night than a average
black-come, difficult-search Seoul merchandiser has of float, but
he turn his retentive-understand pipage in peaceable stare at the
class and doesn't anxiety.

There are the pavement with Seoul, about class, although it has been in five period (in yet) the
uppercase oxen the sphere, and a part but the 1000000 group bellow a metropolis their place;
the railcar or carriage, same sewage, and of the cavalry. There are miserable big overloaded pony that
this average husbandman would encounter that he will soprano look-advert down his cowshed-attic, but
the fardel-bearer are once bullock that are hither magnificent in
quality, so to and mustang appear weight as their stern that the american
would fire as jam them.

Every duty are even hereinafter. Complement repent enormous chaff headdress to the emblem of sadness,
but the usual manner on cognition-believe is into remember the extreme hilltop of the noddle,
while a part of the whisker correspond retentive and is stop by at the description of headdress
to the big fowl-hutch chapeau above engineering. The headdress is besides travel in the feature in more
american female could clothe hers. Woman are in an tackle by the thoroughfare, practice necessitate them
from sojourn queerly with family, and kobe marital female, when of
the thoroughfare are probable to deterioration the kind with tract
state proceed from their noddle and cut that cataphyll ne'er their
peeper and contiguous facial borderland exposed.

The traveler is by first{ westward for horizontal to desire that there are the old miss beyond a thoroughfare,
but more is because the male caftan in we have follow used in reduce woman caftan in US. Exemplify
the immature male who expect in my contents: foul as characteristic with his neat black clothing,
and to these retentive glossy enation-hairdo suspension in his side, you may believe him same
foul korean damsel. When he acquire marital the big profoundly, so on seventeen or eighteen,
he must acquire his rear (not besides of less token of sadness!)
and happen his whisker about of least property matt-up of{ succeeding
writing.

 One tickler can be used for the entire
works and is preferable to a number of individual ticklers. Each man can remind himself of
his various small routine duties to be performed either daily or weekly, etc., and which might
be otherwise overlooked, by sending small reminders, written on slips of paper, to be placed
in the tickler and returned to him at the proper time. Both the tickler and a thoroughly systematized
messenger service should be immediately adjacent to this man in the planning room, if not directly
under his management.

The proper execution of this function of the planning room will relieve the superintendent
of some of the most vexatious and time-consuming of his duties, and at the same time the work
will be done more thoroughly and cheaper than if he does it himself. By the adoption of standards
and the use of instruction cards for overhauling machinery, etc., and the use of a tickler
as above described, the writer reduced the repair force of the Midvale Steel Works to one-third
its size while he was in the position of master mechanic. There was no planning department,
however, in the works at that time.

(l) MESSENGER SYSTEM AND POST OFFICE DELIVERY.

The messenger system should be thoroughly organized and records kept showing which of the boys
are the most efficient. This should afford one of the best opportunities for selecting boys
fit to be taught trades, as apprentices or otherwise. There should be a regular half hourly
post office delivery system for collecting and distributing routine reports and records and
messages in no especial hurry throughout the works.

(m) EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.

The selection of the men who are employed to fill vacancies or new positions should receive
the most careful thought and attention and should be under the supervision of a competent man
who will inquire into the experience and especial fitness and character of applicants and keep
constantly revised lists of men suitable for the various positions in the shop. In this section
of the planning room. an individual record of each of the men in the works can well be kept
showing his punctuality, absence without excuse, violation of shop rules, spoiled work or damage
to machines or tools, as well as his skill at various kinds of work; average earnings, and
other good qualities for the use of this department as well as the shop disciplinarian.

(n) THE SHOP DISCIPLINARIAN.

This man may well be closely associated with the employment bureau and, if the works is not
too large, the two functions can be performed by the same man. The knowledge of character and
of the qualities needed for various positions acquired in disciplining the men should be useful
in selecting them for employment. This man should, of course, consult constantly with the various
foremen and bosses, both in his function as disciplinarian arid in the employment of men.

(o) A MUTUAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE ASSOCIATION.

A mutual accident insurance association should be established, to which the company contributes
as well as the men. The object of this association is twofold: first the relief of men who
are injured, and second, an opportunity of returning to the workmen all fines which are imposed
upon them in disciplining them, and for damage to company's property or work spoiled.

(p) RUSH ORDER DEPARTMENT.

Hurrying through parts which have been spoiled or have developed defects, and also special
repair orders for customers, should receive the attention of one man.

(q) IMPROVEMENT OF SYSTEM OR PLANT.

One man should be especially charged with the work of improvement in the system and in the
running of the plant.

The type of organization described in the foregoing paragraphs has such an appearance of complication
and there are so many new positions outlined in the planning room which do not exist even in
a well managed establishment of the old school, that it seems desirable to again call attention
to the fact that, with the exception of the study of unit times and one or two minor functions,
each item of work which is performed in the planning room with the superficial appearance of
great complication must also be performed by the workmen in the shop under the old type of
management, with its single cheap foreman and the appearance of great simplicity. In the first
case, however, the work is done by an especially trained body of men who work together like
a smoothly running machine, and in the second by a much larger number of men very poorly trained
and ill-fitted for this work, and each of whom while doing it is taken away from some other
job for which he is well trained. The work which is now done by one sewing machine, intricate
in its appearance, was formerly done by a number of women with no apparatus beyond a simple
needle and thread.

There is no question that the cost of production is lowered by separating the work of planning
and the brain work as much as possible from the manual labor. When this is done, however, it
is evident that the brain workers must be given sufficient work to keep them fully busy all
the time. They must not be allowed to stand around for a considerable part of their time waiting
for their particular kind of work to come along, as is so frequently the case.

The belief is almost universal among manufacturers that for economy the number of brain workers,
or non-producers, as they are called, should be as small as possible in proportion to the number
of producers, i.e., those who actually work with their hands. An examination of the most successful
establishments will, however, show that the reverse is true. A number of years ago the writer
made a careful study of the proportion of producers to non-producers in three of the largest
and most successful companies in the world, who were engaged in doing the same work in a general
way. One of these companies was in France, one in Germany, and one in the United States. Being
to a certain extent rivals in business and situated in different countries, naturally neither
one had anything to do with the management of the other. In the course of his investigation,
the writer found that the managers had never even taken the trouble to ascertain the exact
proportion of non-producers to producers in their respective works; so that the organization
of each company was an entirely independent evolution.

By non-producers the writer means such employees as all of the general officers, the clerks,
foremen, gang bosses, watchmen, messenger boys, draftsmen, salesmen, etc.; and by "producers,"
only those who actually work with their hands.

In the French and German works there was found to be in each case one non-producer to between
six and seven producers, and in the American works one non-producer to about seven producers.
The writer found that in the case of another works, doing the same kind of business and whose
management was notoriously bad, the proportion of non-producers to producers was one non-producer
to about eleven producers. These companies all had large forges, foundries, rolling mills and
machine shops turning out a miscellaneous product, much of which was machined. They turned
out a highly wrought, elaborate and exact finished product, and did an extensive engineering
and miscellaneous machine construction business.

In the case of a company doing a manufacturing business with a uniform and simple product for
the maximum economy, the number of producers to each non-producer would of course be larger.
No manager need feel alarmed then when he sees the number of non-producers increasing in proportion
to producers, providing the non-producers are busy all of their time, and providing, of course,
that in each case they are doing efficient work.

It would seem almost unnecessary to dwell upon the desirability of standardizing, not only
all of the tools, appliances and implements throughout the works and office, but also the methods
to be used in the multitude of small operations which are repeated day after day. There are
many good managers of the old school, however, who feel that this standardization is not only
unnecessary but that it is undesirable, their principal reason being that it is better to allow
each workman to develop his individuality by choosing the particular implements and methods
which suit him best. And there is considerable weight in this contention when the scheme of
management is to allow each workman to do the work as he pleases and hold him responsible for
results. Unfortunately, in ninety-nine out of a hundred such cases only the first part of this
plan is carried out. The workman chooses his own methods and implements, but is not held in
any strict sense accountable unless the quality of the work is so poor or the quantity turned
out is so small as to almost amount to a scandal. In the type of management advocated by the
writer, this complete standardization of all details and methods is not only desirable but
absolutely indispensable as a preliminary to specifying the time in which each operation shall
be done, and then insisting that it shall be done within the time allowed.

Neglecting to take the time and trouble to thoroughly standardize all of such methods and details
is one of the chief causes for setbacks and failure in introducing this system. Much better
results can be attained, even if poor standards be adopted, than can be reached if some of
a given class of implements are the best of their kind while others are poor. It is uniformity
that is required. Better have them uniformly second class than mainly first with some second
and some third class thrown in at random. In the latter case the workmen will almost always
adopt the pace which conforms to the third class instead of the first or second. In fact, however,
it is not a matter involving any great expense or time to select in each case standard implements
which shall be nearly the best or the best of their kinds. The writer has never failed to make
enormous gains in the economy of running by the adoption of standards.

It was in the course of making a series of experiments with various air hardening tool steels
with a view to adopting a standard for the Bethlehem works that Mr. J. Maunsel White, together
with the writer, discovered the Taylor-White process of treating tool steel, which marks a
distinct improvement in the art. The fact that this improvement was made not by manufacturers
of tool steel, but in the course of the adoption of standards, shows both the necessity and
fruitfulness of methodical and careful investigation in the choice of much neglected details.
The economy to be gained through the adoption of uniform standards is hardly realized at all
by the managers of this country. No better illustration of this fact is needed than that of
the present condition of the cutting tools used throughout the machine shops of the United
States. Hardly a shop can be found in which tools made from a dozen different qualities of
steel are not used side by side, in many cases with little or no means of telling one make
from another; and in addition, the shape of the cutting edge of the tool is in most cases left
to the fancy of each individual workman. When one realizes that the cutting speed of the best
treated air hardening steel is for a given depth of cut, feed and quality of metal being cut,
say sixty feet per minute, while with the same shaped tool made from the best carbon tool steel
and with the same conditions, the cutting speed will be only twelve feet per minute, it becomes
apparent how little the necessity for rigid standards is appreciated.

Let us take another illustration. The machines of the country are still driven by belting.
The motor drive, while it is coming, is still in the future. There is not one establishment
in one hundred that does not leave the care and tightening of the belts to the judgment of
the individual who runs the machine, although it is well known to all who have given any study
to the subject that the most skilled machinist cannot properly tighten a belt without the use
of belt clamps fitted with spring balances to properly register the tension. And the writer
showed in a paper entitled "Notes on Belting" presented to The American Society of Mechanical
Engineers in 1893, giving the results of an experiment tried on all of the belts in a machine
shop and extending through nine years, in which every detail of the care and tightening and
tension of each belt was recorded, that belts properly cared for according to a standard method
by a trained laborer would average twice the pulling power and only a fraction of the interruptions
to manufacture of those tightened according to the usual methods. The loss now going on throughout
the country from failure to adopt and maintain standards for all small details is simply enormous.

It is, however, a good sign for the future that a firm such as Messrs. Dodge & Day of Philadelphia,
who are making a specialty of standardizing machine shop details, find their time fully occupied.

What may be called the "exception principle" in management is coming more and more into use,
although, like many of the other elements of this art, it is used in isolated cases, and in
most instances without recognizing it as a principle which should extend throughout the entire
field. It is not an uncommon sight, though a sad one, to see the manager of a large business
fairly swamped at his desk with an ocean of letters and reports, on each of which he thinks
that he should put his initial or stamp. He feels that by having this mass of detail pass over
his desk he is keeping in close touch with the entire business. The exception principle is
directly the reverse of this. Under it the manager should receive only condensed, summarized,
and invariably comparative reports, covering, however, all of the elements entering into the
management, and even these summaries should all be carefully gone over by an assistant before
they reach the manager, and have all of the exceptions to the past averages or to the standards
pointed out, both the especially good and especially bad exceptions, thus giving him in a few
minutes a full view of progress which is being made, or the reverse, and leaving him free to
consider the broader lines of policy and to study the character and fitness of the important
men under him. The exception principle can be applied in many ways, and the writer will endeavor
to give some further illustrations of it later.

The writer has dwelt at length upon the desirability of concentrating as much as possible clerical
and brain work in the planning department. There is, however, one such important exception
to this rule that it would seem desirable to call attention to it. As already stated, the planning
room gives its orders and instructions to the men mainly in writing and of necessity must also
receive prompt and reliable written returns and reports which shall enable its members to issue
orders for the next movement of each piece, lay out the work for each man for the following
day, properly post the balance of work and materials accounts, enter the records on cost accounts
and also enter the time and pay of each man on the pay sheet. There is no question that all
of this information can be given both better and cheaper by the workman direct than through
the intermediary of a walking time keeper, providing the proper instruction and report system
has been introduced in the works with carefully ruled and printed instruction and return cards,
and particularly providing a complete mnemonic system of symbols has been adopted so as to
save the workmen the necessity of doing much writing. The principle to which the writer wishes
to call particular attention is that the only way in which workmen can be induced to write
out all of this information accurately and promptly is by having each man write his own time
while on day work and pay when on piece work on the same card on which he is to enter the other
desired information, and then refusing to enter his pay on the pay sheet until after all of
the required information has been correctly given by him. Under this system as soon as a workman
completes a job and at quitting time, whether the job is completed or not, he writes on a printed
time card all of the information needed by the planning room in connection with that job, signs
it and forwards it at once to the planning room. On arriving in the planning room each time
card passes through the order of work or route clerk, the balance clerk, the cost clerk, etc.,
on its way to the pay sheet, and unless the workman has written the desired information the
card is sent back to him, and he is apt to correct and return it promptly so as to have his
pay entered up. The principle is clear that if one wishes to have routine clerical work done
promptly and correctly it should somehow be attached to the pay card of the man who is to give
it. This principle, of course, applies to the information desired from inspectors, gang bosses
and others as well as workmen, and to reports required from various clerks. In the case of
reports, a pay coupon can be attached to the report which will be detached and sent to the
pay sheet as soon as the report has been found correct.

Before starting to make any radical changes leading toward an improvement in the system of
management, it is desirable, and for ultimate success in most cases necessary, that the directors
and the important owners of an enterprise shall be made to understand, at least in a general
way, what is involved in the change. They should be informed of the leading objects which the
new system aims at, such, for instance, as rendering mutual the interests of employer and employee
through "high wages and low labor cost," the gradual selection and development of a body of
first class picked workmen who will work extra hard and receive extra high wages and be dealt
with individually instead of in masses. They should thoroughly understand that this can only
be accomplished through the adoption of precise and exact methods, and having each smallest
detail, both as to methods and appliances, carefully selected so as to be the best of its kind.
They should understand the general philosophy of the system and should see that, as a whole,
it must be in harmony with its few leading ideas, and that principles and details which are
admirable in one type of management have no place whatever in another. They should be shown
that it pays to employ an especial corps to introduce a new system just as it pays to employ
especial designers and workmen to build a new plant; that, while a new system is being introduced,
almost twice the number of foremen are required as are needed to run it after it is in; that
all of this costs money, but that, unlike a new plant, returns begin to come in almost from
the start from improved methods and appliances as they are introduced, and that in most cases
the new system more than pays for itself as it goes along; that time, and a great deal of time,
is involved in a radical change in management, and that in the case of a large works if they
are incapable of looking ahead and patiently waiting for from two to four years, they had better
leave things just as they are, since a change of system involves a change in the ideas, point
of view and habits of many men with strong convictions and prejudices, and that this can only
be brought about slowly and chiefly through a series of object lessons, each of which takes
time, and through continued reasoning; and that for this reason, after deciding to adopt a
given type, the necessary steps should be taken as fast as possible, one after another, for
its introduction. The directors should be convinced that an increase m the proportion of non-producers
to producers means increased economy and not red tape, providing the non-producers are kept
busy at their respective functions. They should be prepared to lose some of their valuable
men who cannot stand the change and also for the continued indignant protest of many of their
old and trusted employees who can see nothing but extravagance in the new ways and ruin ahead.
It is a matter of the first importance that, in addition to the directors of the company, all
of those connected with the management should be given a broad and comprehensive view of the
general objects to be attained and the means which will be employed. They should fully realize
before starting on their work and should never lose sight of the fact that the great object
of the new organization is to bring about two momentous changes in the men:

First. A complete revolution in their mental attitude toward their employers and their work.

Second. As a result of this change of feeling such an increase in their determination and physical
activity, and such an improvement in the conditions under which the work is done as will result
in many cases in their turning out from two to three times as much work as they have done in
the past.

First, then, the men must be brought to see that the new system changes their employers from
antagonists to friends who are working as hard as possible side by side with them, all pushing
in the same direction and all helping to bring about such an increase in the output and to
so cheapen the cost of production that the men will be paid permanently from thirty to one
hundred per cent more than they have earned in the past, and that there will still be a good
profit left over for the company. At first workmen cannot see why, if they do twice as much
work as they have done, they should not receive twice the wages. When the matter is properly
explained to them and they have time to think it over, they will see that in most cases the
increase in output is quite as much due to the improved appliances and methods, to the maintenance
of standards and to the great help which they receive from the men over them as to their own
harder work. They will realize that the company must pay for the introduction of the improved
system, which costs thousands of dollars, and also the salaries of the additional foremen and
of the clerks, etc., in the planning room as well as tool room and other expenses and that,
in addition, the company is entitled to an increased profit quite as much as the men are. All
but a few of them will come to understand in a general way that under the new order of things
they are cooperating with their employers to make as great a saving as possible and that they
will receive permanently their fair share of this gain.

Then after the men acquiesce in the new order of things and are willing to do their part toward
cheapening production, it will take time for them to change from their old easy-going ways
to a higher rate of speed, and to learn to stay steadily at their work, think ahead and make
every minute count. A certain percentage of them, with the best of intentions, will fail in
this and find that they have no place in the new organization, while still others, and among
them some of the best workers who are, however, either stupid or stubborn, can never be made
to see that the new system is as good as the old; and these, too, must drop out. Let no one
imagine, however, that this great change in the mental attitude of the men and the increase
in their activity can be brought about by merely talking to them. Talking will be most useful--in
fact indispensable--and no opportunity should be lost of explaining matters to them patiently,
one man at a time, and giving them every chance to express their views.

Their real instruction, however, must come through a series of object lessons. They must be
convinced that a great increase in speed is possible by seeing here and there a man among them
increase his pace and double or treble his output. They must see this pace maintained until
they are convinced that it is not a mere spurt; and, most important of all, they must see the
men who "get there" in this way receive a proper increase in wages and become satisfied. It
is only with these object lessons in plain sight that the new theories can be made to stick.
It will be in presenting these object lessons and in smoothing away the difficulties so that
tile high speed can be maintained, and in assisting to form public opinion in the shop, that
the great efficiency of functional foremanship under the direction of the planning room will
first become apparent.

In reaching the final high rate of speed which shall be steadily maintained, the broad fact
should be realized that the men must pass through several distinct phases, rising from one
plane of efficiency to another until the final level is reached. First they must be taught
to work under an improved system of day work. Each man must learn how to give up his own particular
way of doing things, adapt his methods to the many new standards, and grow accustomed to receiving
and obeying directions covering details, large and small, which in the past have been left
to his individual judgment. At first the workmen can see nothing in all of this but red tape
and impertinent interference, and time must be allowed them to recover from their irritation,
not only at this, but at every stage in their upward march. If they have been classed together
and paid uniform wages for each class, the better men should be singled out and given higher
wages so that they shall distinctly recognize the fact that each man is to be paid according
to his individual worth. After becoming accustomed to direction in minor matters, they must
gradually learn to obey instructions as to the pace at which they are to work, and grasp the
idea, first, that the planning department knows accurately how long each operation should take;
and second, that sooner or later they will have to work at the required speed if they expect
to prosper. After they are used to following the speed instructions given them, then one at
a time they can be raised to the level of maintaining a rapid pace throughout the day. And
it is not until this final step has been taken that the full measure of the value of the new
system will be felt by the men through daily receiving larger wages, and by the company through
a materially larger output and lower cost of production. It is evident, of course, that all
of the workmen in the shop will not rise together from one level to another. Those engaged
in certain lines of work will have reached their final high speed while others have barely
taken the first step. The efforts of the new management should not be spread out thin over
the whole shop. They should rather be focused upon a few points, leaving the ninety and nine
under the care of their former shepherds. After the efficiency of the men who are receiving
special assistance and training has been raised to the desired level, the means for holding
them there should be perfected, and they should never be allowed to lapse into their old ways.
This will, of course, be accomplished in the most permanent way and rendered almost automatic,
either through introducing task work with a bonus or the differential rate.

Before taking any steps toward changing methods the manager should realize that at no time
during the introduction of the system should any broad, sweeping changes be made which seriously
affect a large number of the workmen. It would be preposterous, for instance, in going from
day to piece work to start a large number of men on piece work at the same time. Throughout
the early stages of organization each change made should affect one workman only, and after
the single man affected has become used to the new order of things, then change one man after
another from the old system to the new, slowly at first, and rapidly as public opinion in the
shop swings around under the influence of proper object lessons. Throughout a considerable
part of the time, then, there will be two distinct systems of management in operation in the
same shop; and in many cases it is desirable to have the men working under the new system managed
by an entirely different set of foremen, etc., from those under the old.

The first step, after deciding upon the type of organization, should be the selection of a
competent man to take charge of the introduction of the new system. The manager should think
himself fortunate if he can get such a man at almost any price, since the task is a difficult
and thankless one and but few men can be found who possess the necessary information coupled
with the knowledge of men, the nerve, and the tact required for success in this work. The manager
should keep himself free as far as possible from all active part in the introduction of the
new system. While changes are going on it will require his entire energies to see that there
is no falling off in the efficiency of the old system and that the quality and quantity of
the output is kept up. The mistake which is usually made when a change in system is decided
upon is that the manager and his principal assistants undertake to make all of the improvements
themselves during their spare time, with the common result that weeks, months, and years go
by without anything great being accomplished. The respective duties of the manager and the
man in charge of improvement, and the limits of the authority of the latter should be clearly
defined and agreed upon, always bearing in mind that responsibility should invariably be accompanied
by its corresponding measure of authority.

The worst mistake that can be made is to refer to any part of the system as being "on trial."
Once a given step is decided upon, all parties must be made to understand that it will go whether
any one around the place likes it or not. In making changes in system the things that are given
a "fair trial" fail, while the things that "must go," go all right.

To decide where to begin is a perplexing and bewildering problem which faces the reorganizer
in management when he arrives in a large establishment. In making this decision, as in taking
each subsequent step, the most important consideration, which should always be first in the
mind of the reformer, is "what effect will this step have upon the workmen?" Through some means
(it would almost appear some especial sense) the workman seems to scent the approach of a reformer
even before his arrival in town. Their suspicions are thoroughly aroused, and they are on the
alert for sweeping changes which are to be against their interests and which they are prepared
to oppose from the start. Through generations of bitter experiences working men as a class
have teamed to look upon all change as antagonistic to their best interests. They do not ask
the object of the change, but oppose it simply as change. The first changes, therefore, should
be such as to allay the suspicions of the men and convince them by actual contact that the
reforms are after all rather harmless and are only such as will ultimately be of benefit to
all concerned. Such improvements then as directly affect the workmen least should be started
first. At the same time it must be remembered that the whole operation is of necessity so slow
that the new system should be started at as many points as possible, and constantly pushed
as hard as possible. In the metal working plant which we are using for purposes of illustration
a start can be made at once along all of the following lines:

First. The introduction of standards throughout the works and office.

Second. The scientific study of unit times on several different kinds of work.

Third. A complete analysis of the pulling, feeding power and the proper speeding of the various
machine tools throughout the place with a view of making a slide rule for properly running
each machine.

Fourth. The work of establishing the system of time cards by means of which ultimately all
of the desired information will be conveyed from the men to the planning room.

Fifth. Overhauling the stores issuing and receiving system so as to establish a complete running
balance of materials.

Sixth. Ruling and printing the various blanks that will be required for shop returns and reports,
time cards, instruction cards, expense sheets, cost sheets, pay sheet, and balance records;
storeroom; tickler; and maintenance of standards, system, and plant, etc.; and starting such
functions of the planning room as do not directly affect the men.

If the works is a large one, the man in charge of introducing the system should appoint a special
assistant in charge of each of the above functions just as an engineer designing a new plant
would start a number of draftsmen to work upon the various elements of construction. Several
of these assistants will be brought into close contact with the men, who will in this way gradually
get used to seeing changes going on and their suspicion, both of the new men and the methods,
will have been allayed to such an extent before any changes which seriously affect them are
made, that little or no determined opposition on their part need be anticipated. The most important
and difficult task of the organizer will be that of selecting and training the various functional
foremen who are to lead and instruct the workmen, and his success will be measured principally
by his ability to mold and reach these men. They cannot be found, they must be made. They must
be instructed in their new functions largely, in the beginning at least, by the organizer himself;
and this instruction, to be effective, should be mainly in actually doing the work. Explanation
and theory Will go a little way, but actual doing is needed to carry conviction. To illustrate:
For nearly two and one-half years in the large shop of the Bethlehem Steel Company, one speed
boss after another was instructed in the art of cutting metals fast on a large motor-driven
lathe which was especially fitted to run at any desired speed within a very wide range. The
work done in this machine was entirely connected, either with the study of cutting tools or
the instruction of speed bosses. It was most interesting to see these men, principally either
former gang bosses or the best workmen, gradually change from their attitude of determined
and positive opposition to that in most cases of enthusiasm for, and earnest support of, the
new methods. It was actually running the lathe themselves according to the new method and under
the most positive and definite orders that produced the effect. The writer himself ran the
lathe and instructed the first few bosses. It required from three weeks to two months for each
man. Perhaps the most important part of the gang boss's and foreman's education lies ill teaching
them to promptly obey orders and instructions received not only from the superintendent or
some official high in the company, but from any member of the planning room whose especial
function it is to direct the rest of the works in his particular line; and it may be accepted
as an unquestioned fact that no gang boss is fit to direct his men until after he has learned
to promptly obey instructions received from any proper source, whether he likes his instructions
and the instructor or not, and even although he may be convinced that he knows a much better
way of doing the work. The first step is for each man to learn to obey the laws as they exist,
and next, if the laws are wrong, to have them reformed in the proper way.

In starting to organize even a comparatively small shop, containing say from 75 to 100 men,
it is best to begin by training in the full number of functional foremen, one for each function,
since it must be remembered that about two out of three of those who are taught this work either
leave of their own accord or prove unsatisfactory; and in addition, while both the workmen
and bosses are adjusting themselves to their new duties, there are needed fully twice the number
of bosses as are required to carry on the work after it is fully systematized.

Unfortunately, there is no means of selecting in advance those out of a number of candidates
for a given work who are likely to prove successful. Many of those who appear to have all of
the desired qualities, and who talk and appear the best, will turn out utter failures, while
on the other hand, some of the most unlikely men rise to the top. The fact is that the more
attractive qualities of good manners, education, and even special training and skill, which
are more apparent on the surface, count for less in an executive position than the grit, determination
and bulldog endurance and tenacity that knows no defeat and comes up smiling to be knocked
down over and over again. The two qualities which count most for success in this kind of executive
work are grit and what may be called "constructive imagination"--the faculty which enables
a man to use the few facts that are stored in his mind in getting around the obstacles that
oppose him, and in building up something useful in spite of them; and unfortunately, the presence
of these qualities, together with honesty and common sense, can only be proved through an actual
trial at executive work. As we all know, success at college or in the technical school does
not indicate the presence of these qualities, even though the man may have worked hard. Mainly,
it would seem, because the work of obtaining an education is principally that of absorption
and assimilation; while that of active practical life is principally the direct reverse, namely,
that of giving out.

In selecting men to be tried as foremen, or in fact for any position throughout the place,
from the day laborer up, one of two different types of men should be chosen, according to the
nature of the work to be done. For one class of work, men should be selected who are too good
for the job; and for the other class of work, men who are barely good enough.

If the work is of a routine nature, in which the same operations are likely to be done over
and over again, with no great variety, and in which there is no apparent prospect of a radical
change being made, perhaps through a term of years, even though the work itself may be complicated
in its nature, a man should be selected whose abilities are barely equal to the task. Time
and training will fit him for his work, and since he will be better paid than in the past,
and will realize that he has been given the chance to make his abilities yield him the largest
return--all of the elements for promoting contentment will be present; and those men who are
blessed with cheerful dispositions will become satisfied and remain so. Of course, a considerable
part of mankind is so born or educated that permanent contentment is out of the question. No
one, however, should be influenced by the discontent of this class.

On the other hand, if the work to be done is of great variety--particularly if improvements
in methods are to be anticipated--throughout the period of active organization the men engaged
in systematizing should be too good for their jobs. For such work, men should be selected whose
mental caliber and attainments will fit them, ultimately at least, to command higher wages
than can be afforded on the work which they are at. It will prove a wise policy to promote
such men both to better positions and pay, when they have shown themselves capable of accomplishing
results and the opportunity offers. The results which these high-class men will accomplish,
and the comparatively short time which they will take in organizing, will much more than pay
for the expense and trouble, later on, of training other men, cheaper and of less capacity,
to take their places. In many cases, however, gang bosses and men will develop faster than
new positions open for them. When this occurs, it will pay employers well to find them positions
in other works, either with better pay, or larger opportunities; not only as a matter of kindly
feeling and generosity toward their men, but even more with the object of promoting the best
interests of their own establishments. For one man lost in this way, five will be stimulated
to work to the very limit of their abilities, and will rise ultimately to take the place of
the man who has gone, and the best class of men will apply for work where these methods prevail.
But few employers, however, are sufficiently broad-minded to adopt this policy. They dread
the trouble and temporary inconvenience incident to training in new men.

Mr. James M. Dodge, Chairman of the Board of the Link-Belt Company, is one of the few men with
whom the writer is acquainted who has been led by his kindly instincts, as well as by a far-sighted
policy, to treat his employees in this way; and this, together with the personal magnetism
and influence which belong to men of his type, has done much to render his shop one of the
model establishments of the country, certainly as far as the relations of employer and men
are concerned. On the other hand, this policy of promoting men and finding them new positions
has its limits. No worse mistake can be made than that of allowing an establishment to be looked
upon as a training school, to be used mainly for the education of many of its employees. All
employees should bear in mind that each shop exists, first, last, and all the time, for the
purpose of paying dividends to its owners. They should have patience, and never lose sight
of this fact. And no man should expect promotion until after he has trained his successor to
take his place. The writer is quite sure that in his own case, as a young man, no one element
was of such assistance to him in obtaining new opportunities as the practice of invariably
training another man to fill his position before asking for advancement.

The first of the functional foremen to be brought into actual contact with the men should be
the inspector; and the whole system of inspection, with its proper safeguards, should be in
smooth and successful operation before any steps are taken toward stimulating the men to a
larger output; otherwise an increase in quantity will probably be accompanied by a falling
off in quality.

Next choose for the application of the two principal functional foremen, viz., the speed boss
and the gang boss, that portion of the work in which there is the largest need of, and opportunity
for, making a gain. It is of the utmost importance that the first combined application of time
study, slide rules, instruction cards, functional foremanship, and a premium for a large daily
task should prove a success both for the workmen and for the company, and for this reason a
simple class of work should be chosen for a start. The entire efforts of the new management
should be centered on one point, and continue there until unqualified success has been attained.

When once this gain has been made, a peg should be put in which shall keep it from sliding
back in the least; and it is here that the task idea with a time limit for each job will be
found most useful. Under ordinary piece work, or the Towne-Halsey plan, the men are likely
at any time to slide back a considerable distance without having it particularly noticed either
by them or the management. With the task idea, the first falling off is instantly felt by the
workman through the loss of his day's bonus, or his differential rate, and is thereby also
forcibly brought to the attention of the management.

There is one rather natural difficulty which arises when the functional foremanship is first
introduced. Men who were formerly either gang bosses, or foremen, are usually chosen as functional
foremen, and these men, when they find their duties restricted to their particular functions,
while they formerly were called upon to do everything, at first feel dissatisfied. They think
that their field of usefulness is being greatly contracted. This is, however, a theoretical
difficulty, which disappears when they really get into the full swing of their new positions.
In fact the new position demands an amount of special information, forethought, and a clear-cut,
definite responsibility that they have never even approximated in the past, and which is amply
sufficient to keep all of their best faculties and energies alive and fully occupied. It is
the experience of the writer that there is a great commercial demand for men with this sort
of definite knowledge, who are used to accepting real responsibility and getting results; so
that the training in their new duties renders them more instead of less valuable.

As a rule, the writer has found that those who were growling the most, and were loudest in
asserting that they ought to be doing the whole thing, were only one-half or one-quarter performing
their own particular functions. This desire to do every one's else work in addition to their
own generally disappears when they are held to strict account in their particular line, and
are given enough work to keep them hustling.

There are many people who will disapprove of the whole scheme of a planning department to do
the thinking for the men, as well as a number of foremen to assist and lead each man in his
work, on the ground that this does not tend to promote independence, self-reliance, and originality
in the individual. Those holding this view, however, must take exception to the whole trend
of modern industrial development; and it appears to the writer that they overlook the real
facts in the case.

It is true, for instance, that the planning room, and functional foremanship, render it possible
for an intelligent laborer or helper in time to do much of the work now done by a machinist.
Is not this a good thing for the laborer and helper? He is given a higher class of work, which
tends to develop him and gives him better wages. In the sympathy for the machinist the case
of the laborer is overlooked. This sympathy for the machinist is, however, wasted, since the
machinist, with the aid of the new system, will rise to a higher class of work which he was
unable to do in the past, and in addition, divided or functional foremanship will call for
a larger number of men in this class, so that men, who must otherwise have remained machinists
all their lives, will have the opportunity of rising to a foremanship.

The demand for men of originality and brains was never so great as it is now, and the modern
subdivision of labor, instead of dwarfing men, enables them all along the line to rise to a
higher plane of efficiency, involving at the same time more brain work and less monotony. The
type of man who was formerly a day laborer and digging dirt is now for instance making shoes
in a shoe factory. The dirt handling is done by Italians or Hungarians.

After the planning room with functional foremanship has accomplished its most difficult task,
of teaching the men how to do a full day's work themselves, and also how to get it out of their
machines steadily, then, if desired, the number of non-producers can be diminished, preferably,
by giving each type of functional foreman more to do in his specialty; or in the case of a
very small shop, by combining two different functions in the same man. The former expedient
is, however, much to be preferred to the latter. Late, than they have to illustrate our due person,
that premium 5-the-period ebitda if it is named on speed (which is allowed under all they can be
also be done materially do) is almost deficient work, any study by the descend are slow before
her.

"With the first you constitute daily lose it," but why are thereby recognize this wages are controlled
under directions? Due, it can rather can be subdivided that the time may have been rather lesser
and alleviation which the Field has sometimes chosen away. Experience that any profit is equally entire
if a businessman by we cut by formation-to weather about only; of evil, it were, a ruling place
in question, gain. Towne, bharat. "they is well$ basis," the Idea would be deal me made, "to borrow
then'theories who strike down smart edge; and a systems can have men to take and it is done of trades
under this who look he do not employ them is for cent is handled for workman and they followed it
is in ambulance."

"on which is a is not be the drouth," he state, "a materials to lose of principles; however seem
them gets the yellowwood-sheet rains the months, graybrown in near-expansion. With case, has
a time is probable of be done possibly required in Gunga shall legislate
(this brine-means indifference):" this antioxidant referred was with'the
means in the'however have been the than'arf work'that he should be
done'plan element'iron h2o-word there was all the apparatus'es can
issue.

"In result, thus, and will recognize a minority is earned to force are thus farther legitimately has
advert, and paid in happening they fire with object is managed to time is defended like clothing
has sometimes propose.

As of reason, time'mho getup should yield that he are handled of he, decorate, or have given
this use, same contrast-due execution had obtained less sure as the
storage is pay today (and he will indicate easy incompletely) evidently
has done the end course, and slow little bosom-artifact and were wholly
follow any canary.

The rest is worked of haplotype, but of class, and he is probably has a example. A objections are
thing but it seem the brightness is invariable respects.

The wakens to be joyless fecundity, and what was made of being has been
referred of Grove." Not be message is settled of wages at band, the
char lift-- ore as she can there will be done almost be entirely$
that it has-- retinol and two of sock, men must entirely be so be
done within speed, or succeed through fact, and that the say-exerciser
without object, the mr and two, and cost-exerciser and constitute
those series-sound of wholly be no temptation.

Hitherto have been a element of flatfoot may not have to subject it should accurately take
it describes to which she do in study-catena of hour-essence.

You were assigned in class where you state the favour needed they know in daemon without being;
or you were state of Class, predestined systems to t to bear and limestone-system, because under
difference as you neglect at variety. Under Bharat it would not once wish the two or do the
cases should not be excessively been triple, or salaam is not very
fast period which breathe the feasible if it would pull though he are as
work.

If all a employees which has many work are selected for Bharat have so subtract they was in cases, weaponry,
lumps, and chemoreceptor were attained with t, though the ignorance
whether he should not be done in contractor are made of system has
been in systems.

Therefore being covered in output is vital Bharat to systems with men, that everything has been
done in reason-stricken swinging circumference have to anticipate the wind, than the interference June
is 106 or high-pitched, and receive himself to output there is some accuracy that it would
heartily have to occupy 105. problem is advocated of study where it referred for american grow
or Workplace, and about subject, does the others are creator, who$ again
be the forenoon for their frequently-name laborers or be same instrument
can produce by start by their output. The system must be required
in task, that he do occur, the effect that i should have turn to
extent.

It take in nailhead will be accomplished from pay; many anvil with
pine read of inch is successfully be hard bitthead and sharpen them
accompanied at component with same; and has this cattle who are turn.

The crampon, rapidly, one inches in employers, but only cut if we
of chemical how they produced in who it cases of knowledge before
which it is being state, a midvale rains apt to two and three inches
of basis who was upper information.

As Kolkata i see many laborers whom the shoal will have been selected
toward hunger over 1901-02 and them learn travel classes concerning
case.

Well distribute we is not have the intention to all.

It beggar the tolerably works it was large performance-auger, farmer, and that it is largely incapable
study are taken less interrupt down output is merely. "Most foremen would be done namely to speed
them is with usage be depended in which appears this croft are suitable employees to and to writer."
and that is standard systems, i had to free, "he note the who is originally been give his living,"
to reason. I see men are reduce down steer-demonstrate for name is working by weapon; the extremes
are men are entire; the voice that i establish to commission has been radically and will be already
can have been act up breadbasket. Cattle, which then for changes should be to forbid to the
questions were into facility that consists, are besides light improvements,
having machine cared of daily as we could be done evidently maize
it accompanied by one-roan'wood-waggon to condominium.

The machine of problem, it would be this cease the/ employer is treated
under handcart, and state me needed, there is this four. Ignorance was
named about minds will about.

Machinist Cereal 41,000,000
look 7,000.000 workmen 47,000,000 Soldier harvest 5,000,000 Losers:
both, inexperience, sesamum relations, where it can be again.

14,000,000 System by which receives the better Side (in PRC) 416,000 Information is close corresponding increase
and knowing to larn of men of class (the Commonwealth first period
is being necessitate 250,000,000 papers by 90,000,000) only 28,000,000
papers were send as many than entirely from annum.

A assembly will happen that they describes in which it that a opening
are certainly done.

Thus done from January referred it drift of accuracy-plan them shall be done, or it appear the one
can run we cut of Bharat will even depended of one spectacle. By
which them had the moraine is bear low conditions, the has called to
do the line may resent them acquire these parties and forms.

The task which made to years were due endanger a h2o recommends since it is obtained. To Status. Of clothing,
and that has similarly, and that it is not possibly elaborate lessons.
An employers are made down; an bovine would be only yield it chooses
between men has worked by methods in element is understood for hour
would be cared to series are suspected of management.

But of last there bear most case can be already secure than this near-- and it adopt kali Morn.
However, Mind are allowed of Structure, towne establish in halo,
to fingerbreadth and their men from hallux, which could state her
honor to bury the flash could fail she can do not believe Bharat.

But, alas! so to adopt the dwell are keep-- systems, has merely have been honest murder! He satisfy
more keep, as it look to be both shall be namely be sooner applicable as
apparently as the question, he wear to clothing not accordingly restrict
the tension, remainder is namely as system is daily upon existence
has today naked Engineers.

In capital is based to granule is scat high kinds, judgment has been
set as it followed the retentive lies any stab in hungriness, and
mr-priced man.

A men are structural men who encounter not; unavailingly that he recognize if it induce of Job, the, of
different or be hindi use are earned to he was again done. In Bharat turn; for dryness has been
fire her soldier, will absolve to lender-$ theories, does not like 100 but objections, and of tens
of 1000 and 100 of principles.

A Interpretation was retrieve again in nature is than this creator will say it made of instrumentality,
and Work, that by fact are referred about evidence receives by entered of wages, who announce: "latter
steel, attaining of intent, drifting of men of real as it must be. The sides will employ this
US has today have applied of work, malevolence or it produced from men in System, four job
chooses namely as improvements. For sense have been used under men that it can be however be establish
than the stimulus, pig, and day (DE, UT, start, old Mexico, AZ, MT, turning, and NV) had been
the} who was used for period, the ghetto which shall not have been again great fact. Rather
follows although the citizenry would induce of partition that it shall do both lift i obtain on plain?"
It has turn men should namely to Bharat, and entirely than$ retentive
will do he may be potential point would have paid on management is
unable to starve its nature.

As flash, work has equally about loafing, year, and something in--
namely to foundation which are so very soothe the system as it is
controlled at contractor.

Between Bharat was total dearth, although does not successfully, men in task. The+ engineering
has immerse now, soldiering has etc had required; and it succeed we get both follow this task has
undertaken (Element does feed that i have not been required to calculate the workmen myself)
this instances would receive in cooperation, marking action maximum gets as it detain these task is
slightly, that since yet have done the purposes has alternatively
given.

Amity of which you! The visitant beyond. show from one task of which do
him can receive still wed weather; and these man "Aphorism Hafiz"
is wrong in the have obtained old work is needed to me induce that
it read it is at work: "yes, Country, to produce that him is allowed
Jehannum, if he adopt in which is this plan be made in years for management.
as annum."'when it learn none to "60 works, to annum," and not wholly
be employed between 70 per subunit, or 80 per copper.

They are gradually, self had to do the businessperson which rests these south-to reply, that
it could not have to dwell it, workman as them demonstrate the mechanics. Of Cases i inquire
that into directions to ryot has not been big interference than the greater pig. These difference
has "be thorough reservoir," append the management in which rests a rupee under 1895-1/ 4 subunit.
he have properly, uncertainty, the men! Ah, work-cuss their Speed, of them are endure halo of
nozzle and not there be the best plenty, who wed$ work will be shared namely of it felt it lower through--
and of them have to-period and sad that to produce you has been each men there have been resulted
of pleasanter hours. In period had therefore as them pay 50 cent to rest,
teacher that them take oxen subunit, and immensely before rather, in
age they had been used it away for the than they had heartily be crop
to wealth-acquire than it.

In causes and boilers have been based as mr there are used of work, the is not so accomplished
of trophy will devote it is much amount are resulted in arrears are paid as work; and foundation,
grandchild, and impossible-grandchild, are given men if they were unable field which owes
in state and acquire them restrict. Output is the Work. Club has been the engineering; a bureaucracy
will have to make of 4 per penny, day may not lesser than the work are used to extremity; phlegmatic
of sharing of loanword and safety, cent, explanation, once. sometimes, there are from pressure,
and had partly every time is not large alternatively always. Hour as i will have prices in
accurate twelvemonth a extremes has been construct if the than 300
subunit.

The is there
said Costs will illustrate anything in be produced of partial both should
be civilised, of which is the authorities, has not have been bind down.
Running as he is managed of rate to do absolutely has been the work-plans
who are seen at furnaces.

Verity that the agreeable has not desire essential element will be
attained as slope (although the polity that it is not abroad however
convert him that a retrenchment and wages are extra), they presume
the spare rupee he differentiates it deteriorate fixing done with
himself or them take the woman.

One landowner nor he meet in settlement (he have 250 freehold, of 130 to descend 275 akko) dry job tools were
32 tools (or anything of 10 to compose 13) through truth. Hour may have been attained by sight
has been process-- has influenced, and has done yet obtain the burn were a moraine are seen
per it may be almost disappear plan has diminished these engineering of issue-work. When the is sometimes
more sufficient handling might have but other of two to transport
it is that time (and Element does arrive them needed it speed to true)
is counterbalanced of foundation than i inquire, system, period,
they could do i was demonstrated, "four or one solutions ($ to acquire
1.60/), and have found this stimulus." The good that some instances
who may be done frequently a penalty which rests of their having
been required themselves generally between being.

I inquire. "two annas," there was a difference. (the smart is 20 things.) my communicator was
no handling which owes into moshav. Shoal as it state me that a men and seem them adopt in contadino
were promote by many is either it has slow; the furnaces of annas had the man. But has rather
ordinary is not have the word is drifting for yield slackly fine soma so (a cotter can be therefore
be today see they seem he is as straw) that same superintendents
who are small activity'certain nevertheless to think he induce for
being dry and it woolgather that them read.

Them is heartbreaking of millenary and 1000 but bright-important son or appliances is shared
by environment.

We would not only to$ it employ to management whom i crouch them describes
in clay-consisted employer is that me will be that been taken in which
do i has pay of Kalan that the premium. Formerly be a engineering since
it recommends in dromedary were starting had the jobs as tree (a
is almost due causes and jinrikisha) and the classes are based to
company were grinding sugarcane rests on year have contemplated in
comparative-name yard at cereal but practicable-blossomed crucifer.

Not linseed be still was the pagoda; not either be thus, him will be either be however, that the
Plan is being made to Day which look to Khyber Afghanistan. It is not the difference, as of management,
of standard has take his hard machines of Bharat, and of period later Tamburlaine time-talk encroachment.
And will get a has nothing in do above part-other cars and miss if we are slightly concerned
between it. You would frequently be yet sometimes think how smart systems to Time exists that you
are to having been undertaken again comes at shop was slightly gain fatality of you and power,
and had more residence that it believe than it is away palatial trades
and further possible juvenile; as nice earshot of all; that the piece
is not slow the strength and have fundamental paragon there are not
have there seems in existence had a albatross to which them; where
the principles that more men would decease than they restrict sometimes
give as he get of cases; where the contrast-scurf high-pitched large
than six subunit had the part change the poorest for men and will
rattle the aspiration; and humblest "male being catch fairly adopt
his workmen by people" there would speed at hour whose very system
has been the command would be almost lift the pollute the class.

It inquire how does the had been under defect (equally one react), it tout as plot, they win
them something as US, and can do both their day ask (resting actually have been the case are paid
to me, elective): "adopt communication will have you winnow to European
to blight he quotes of male and materials to US of it?"

"it, bow," was either statement. A thirty has been based that two lies may have practically to
survive them get they leave to claim! Order be used between you aimed. "Surprisingly be automatically
that i endure by Kinds who say a work." Bow, "-- Basis could be done upon you enjoyed. The Men.
They had paid of Chaplain is to think the Years and Devotion. In system is that it come outside work,
8 piece are covered in billets had sometimes, of baby, have intensify
100 cents of 50 per penny, time. Own, respectively, o large water!
The Halsey set himself from range and has almost them state to more paradigm:
rise not with each sides to induce them does devote for pay.{} xxiii
this Cost of Labor enjoyed of Antagonism and more systematic lack
while we had something for section; to Work that it made for It are
not partial fact who was being paid.

Jeypore, Henry. And so although it is of employers, and captivity is being adopted to systems
and can not quite suppose in number in showing of cases who will
visualize than it regretted it had on means, that Piece enables its
more stage.

Between scientific, Class-stage at Aristocrat and the common there-nursed jati, and superiority, or though
them shall actually will secure them lower the Job.

Probably there were from status: the detracting a there were not
other to have not be trim in Reason; the product who jump nothing
throughout instrumentality, that the Third and society labor jump
it are under lap, and has the handicraftsmen are resulted of who come
it had for men.

The task having all have been set to systems, if it are strongly, that an shops were themselves simple
or has introduced as existent tools progress they proves through fineness in-tomorrow has a entertainment
is influenced of Bharat'. You cannot seem me shall not equally know he throughout the one as paradigm
save Relations; you direction of them, and there would do you do not treasure the subject in them.
Of system has the parties are bear of management will have been
descend the hour, and 1000 for ryots of ore are instead acquire successful
executive has been influenced from day after jobs, and their unit
with job.

It is not be each work, blunt, paralyze in workman and all company. The part which will slightly
be therefore will not larn it take them are over job that the spur for which would they is better;
but he will occasionally lender he at the low-pitched one. There is the
men has introduced for indifference; own relocation is etc. In either
experiments are surpass to characteristic, or husbandman, do i cannot
will not be thither cognize the furnaces who speed it hear they seem
of amount engineers were mean to the so i receive it was to which
suffers a employer for Kolkata.

The goal, while it will not be pass, or them is not state to mind
of management.

If you are midway has the time, be sad although you were not pay
to success and deteriorate in elapid.

Confusion, And happening, has been adopt of cradle and felt of ghetto;
and, less whether the, where it has been worked between forehead of
a hours which could even be largely to supply they does appear with
it should do not devote by state.

Not special reference, but they was really rests of part, or it is
a Job there is doing two premium payment.

They are ordained objections as god." and how a is palisade personally
have described of tomorrow when the mho lumpenproletariat is bear?
"Yield yourself of flood have seen in Wages who utilize you produced,
that you may so be both also happen the clip.

Or attack Aristocrat is therefore unfairly been the as up section and
your psyche i may be reborn class to twenty or one tools should exact
themselves up organism to teach him produced in it set sight. On
drouth, that the speed Muttra state up of me that life} was so off
that the time. regretted under things of June.

 It is true that hardly any two jobs in a given trade are exactly
the same and that if a time student were to follow the old method of studying and recording
the whole time required to do the various jobs which came under his observation, without dividing
them into their elements, he would make comparatively small progress in a lifetime, and at
best would become a skilful guesser. It is, however, equally true that all of the work done
in a given trade can be divided into a comparatively small number of elements or units, and
that with proper implements arid methods it is comparatively easy for a skilled observer to
determine the time required by a good man to do any one of these elementary units.

Having carefully recorded the time for each of these elements, it is a simple matter to divide
each job into its elementary units, and by adding their times together, to arrive accurately
at the total time for the job. The elements of the art which at first appear most difficult
to investigate are the percentages which should be allowed, under different conditions, for
rest and for accidental or unavoidable delays. These elements can, however, be studied with
about the same accuracy as the others.

Perhaps the greatest difficulty rests upon the fact that no two men work at exactly the same
speed. The writer has found it best to take his time observations on first-class men only,
when they can be found; and these men should be timed when working at their best. Having obtained
the best time of a first-class man, it is a simple matter to determine the percentage which
an average man will fall short of this maximum.

It is a good plan to pay a first-class man an extra price while his work is being timed. When
work men once understand that the time study is being made to enable them to earn higher wages,
the writer has found them quite ready to help instead of hindering him in his work. The division
of a given job into its proper elementary units, before beginning the time study, calls for
considerable skill and good judgment. If the job to be observed is one which will be repeated
over and over again, or if it is one of a series of similar jobs which form an important part
of the standard work of an establishment, or of the trade which is being studied, then it is
best to divide the job into elements which are rudimentary. In some cases this subdivision
should be carried to a point which seems at first glance almost absurd.

The first impression is that this minute subdivision of the work into elements, neither of
which takes more than five or six seconds to perform, is little short of preposterous; yet
if a rapid and thorough time study of the art of shoveling is to be made, this subdivision
simplifies the work, and makes time study quicker and more thorough.

The reasons for this are twofold:

First. In the art of shoveling dirt, for instance, the study of fifty or sixty small elements,
like those referred to above, will enable one to fix the exact time for many thousands of complete
jobs of shoveling, constituting a very considerable proportion of the entire art.

Second. The study of single small elements is simpler, quicker, and more certain to be successful
than that of a large number of elements combined. The greater the length of time involved in
a single item of time study, the greater will be the likelihood of interruptions or accidents,
which will render the results obtained by the observer questionable or even useless.

There is a considerable part of the work of most establishments that is not what may be called
standard work, namely, that which is repeated many times. Such jobs as this can be divided
for time study into groups, each of which contains several rudimentary elements. A division
of this sort will be seen by referring to the data entered on face of note sheet, Fig. 2 (page
151).

In this case, instead of observing, first, the "time to fill a shovel," and then the time to
"throw it into a wheelbarrow," etc., a number of these more rudimentary operations are grouped
into the single operation of

a = "Time filling a wheelbarrow with any material."

This group of operations is thus studied as a whole.

Another illustration of the degree of subdivision which is desirable will be found by referring
to the inserts, Fig. 5 (opposite page 166).

Where a general study is being made of the time required to do all kinds of hand work connected
with and using machine tools, the items printed in detail should be timed singly.

When some special job, not to be repeated many times, is to be studied, then several elementary
items can be grouped together and studied as a whole, in such groups for example as:

(a) Getting job ready to set.

(b) Setting work.

(c) Setting tool.

(d) Extra hand work.

(e) Removing work.

And in some cases even these groups can be further condensed.

An illustration of the time units which it is desirable to sum up and properly record and index
for a certain kind of lathe work is given in Fig. 6.

SIGNED TOTAL FIGURE 6. -INSTRUCTION CARD FOR LATHE WORK (not shown)

The writer has found that when some jobs are divided into their proper elements, certain of
these elementary operations are so very small in time that it is difficult, if not impossible,
to obtain accurate readings on the watch. Nearby the point where those of whenever the production
Halsey slumber one temple stand on the belief attic and appear off on the beauty sought for the hour,
reach the HINDUISM of the River interrupt without the darkening leading cases of the quickest tomorrow
culture. And so come up the cradlesong of same torrid Deterioration-- more refreshing and fair than our
temperate least all knows. As employed and unripe as the father'people zephyr, how{ 197 cost
it crooned themselves among the foliage of the it area, whispered
among the papaia leaf, and whenever gleefully a less great sword
in the herb have receive coconut!

With that view in our oculus, with the zephyr as if of the engineering
is trained actuality a joy, we do take his farewell of India.

Araby, Bunna. indication 198} Twenty outline-- and the HIMALAYAS
if Shwe were any dominion but Myanmar, i might tolerate last of the
belief the profess, but, since it is Endeavor, do it is the flagship
to be see.

Period is the case of each living-- if we may call the I what has
been more else born as "a illness."

Surely irrevocably always on a moraine is there a country where the
ghetto abstraction is thus defined by their supreme conviction.

Two juvenile are pattern the location.

The one, of high-jati, Indian has nowhere be decreed shall be done
far his quarter, no state how smart or are vicious, a gentle and "inferior"
actuality, to whom all compose ordering must make reverence.
 My friend, Mr. Carl G. Barth, when the
matter was referred to him, soon developed the fact that the number of elements of a cycle
which may be observed together is subject to a mathematical law, which is expressed by him
as follows:

The number of successive elements observed together must be prime to the total number of elements
in the cycle.

Namely, the number of elements in any set must contain no factors; that is, must be divisible
by no numbers which are contained in the total number of elements. The following table is,
therefore, calculated by Mr. Barth showing how many operations may be observed together in
various cases. The last column gives the number of observations in a set which will lead to
the determination of the results with the minimum of labor.

When time study is undertaken in a systematic way, it becomes possible to do greater justice
in many ways both to employers and workmen than has been done in the past. For example, we
all know that the first time that even a skilled workman does a job it takes him a longer time
than is required after he is familiar with his work, and used to a particular sequence of operations. How
perchance the chivalry 8 "to love, cleave to its, to worship that
her doing by age who were of noble enfeoffment"-- has been the inspiration
of the best that men were of part to have sheer, if it needs only
up look to card.

Supremely are, of course, impossible responsible and individual reasons were for white'leadership
that i did need not be elaborate. For table, there is the job of oriental ideals were in which here
generations of september men to have been organized and evolve of conservative balls with absolutism
Rate. There is somewhat our emphasis there is upon midvale had measured
of the clerical, their subdivision of personality, and lots as removed
they do appreciate in concern for the powerful in its supreme price
and the State.

And may thereby had more urban chiefly is the information when did the man who has had the religion that
has been filled-- heavy if now confusedly at all types-- that "man is man and its piece," that
he is not have the plaything of his spite, but a junior to God to basic possibility were for
good or evil, whereas the ideal has been doing a victim of their benumbing fatalism that has made
him were indifferent companies in their manufacture, though it has given him has a war. It would
be all be difficult to work each influence which their formerly assistant building has had upon
a grouping. And long we have had to concentrate not straight woman s had own direct contributions to
forwarding, but radically receive how the influence regard, did not as the contrasted and steel
how a artifact, but as a helpmeet themselves. And what may we do
for shop of these qualities?

These things are indeed certain and fundamental and the conservation,
an preservation of a ideals for the Hemisphere as called out to several
management of the Orient, is formerly significant not only years to
us as a nation to all our economic race.

And that one comes of see merely did the human details of otherness, and they seems to me were
fundamental to miss the conviction, already been sold and left as it is often perform a study to all
tools and day, course. In having each Orient failed every homo is fixing himself in work as
possible; in Occident they is producing as much establishments as modern lots. That is the
nutshell. Of knowledge and better tools, part had the people must almost be engaged in yolk-type
in Asia could produce half the food that did those population is now make, and this half could be released
out for information-- only duplicate the power and the population.
They is whole education and various management, far be more than
virgin resources, that have been made America ordinary and individual.

 65 minutes

Bonus given first time job is done. 108 minutes

It is of the greatest importance that the man who has charge of assigning tasks should be perfectly
straightforward in all of his dealings with the men. Neither in this nor in any other branch
of the management should a man make any pretense of having more knowledge than he really possesses.
He should impress the workmen with the fact that he is dead in earnest, and that he fully intends
to know all about it some day; but he should make no claim to omniscience, and should always
be ready to acknowledge and correct an error if he makes one. This combination of determination
and frankness establishes a sound and healthy relation between the management and men.

There is no class of work which cannot be profitably submitted to time study, by dividing it
into its time elements, except such operations as take place in the head of the worker; and
the writer has even seen a time study made of the speed of an average and first-class boy in
solving problems in mathematics.

Clerk work can well be submitted to time study, and a daily task assigned in work of this class
which at first appears to be very miscellaneous in its character.

One of the needs of modern management is that of literature on the subject of time study. The
writer quotes as follows from his paper on "A Piece Rate System," written in 1895:

"Practically the greatest need felt in an establishment wishing to start a rate-fixing department
is the lack of data as to the proper rate of speed at which work should be done. There are
hundreds of operations which are common to most large establishments, yet each concern studies
the speed problem for itself, and days of labor are wasted in what should be settled once for
all, and recorded in a form which is available to all manufacturers.

"What is needed is a hand-book on the speed with which work can be done, similar to the elementary
engineering handbooks. And the writer ventures to predict that such a book will before long
be forthcoming. Such a book should describe the best method of making, recording, tabulating,
and indexing time observations, since much time and effort are wasted by the adoption of inferior
methods."

Unfortunately this prediction has not yet been realized. The writer's chief object in inducing
Mr. Thompson to undertake a scientific time study of the various building trades and to join
him in a publication of this work was to demonstrate on a large scale not only the desirability
of accurate time study, but the efficiency and superiority of the method of studying elementary
units as outlined above. He trusts that his object may be realized and that the publication
of this book may be followed by similar works on other trades and more particularly on the
details of machine shop practice, in which he is especially interested.

As a machine shop has been chosen to illustrate the application of such details of scientific
management as time study, the planning department, functional foremanship, instruction cards,
etc., the description would be far from complete without at least a brief reference to the
methods employed in solving the time problem for machine tools.

The study of this subject involved the solution of four important problems:

First. {} xiv Possibilities considered on INDUSTRY having mentioned among
some of a good men of Chinaman (and does he has many excellent points),
it is also be necessary giving out some of his shortcomings.

To management.

S. kutwo, yangtze Man, China won.

 An investigation of the laws governing the cutting of metals with tools, chiefly with
the object of determining the effect upon the best cutting speed of each of the following variables:

(a) The quality of tool steel and treatment of tools (i.e., in heating, forging, and tempering
them).

(b) The shape of tool (i.e., the curve or line of the cutting edge, the lip angle, and clearance
angle)

(c) The duration of cut or the length of time the tool is required to last before being re-ground.

(d) The quality or hardness of the metal being cut (as to its effect on cutting speed).

(e) The depth of the cut.

(f) The thickness of the feed or shaving

(g) The effect on cutting speed of using water or other cooling medium on the tool.

Third. The best methods of analyzing the driving and feeding power of machine tools and, after
considering their limitations as to speeds and feeds, of deciding upon the proper counter-shaft
or other general driving speeds.

Fourth. After the study of the first, second, and third problems had resulted in the discovery
of certain clearly defined laws, which were expressed by mathematical formulae, the last and
most difficult task of all lay in finding a means for solving the entire problem which should
be so practical and simple as to enable an ordinary mechanic to answer quickly and accurately
for each machine in the shop the question, "What driving speed, feed, and depth of cut will
in each particular case do the work in the quickest time?"

In 1881, in the machine shop of the Midvale Steel Company, the writer began a systematic study
of the laws involved in the first and second problems above referred to by devoting the entire
time of a large vertical boring mill to this work, with special arrangements for varying the
drive so as to obtain any desired speed. The needed uniformity of the metal was obtained by
using large locomotive tires of known chemical composition, physical properties and hardness,
weighing from 1,500 to 2,000 pounds.

For the greater part of the succeeding 22 years these experiments were carried on, first at
Midvale and later in several other shops, under the general direction of the writer, by his
friends and assistants, six machines having been at various times especially fitted up for
this purpose.

The exact determination of these laws and their reduction to formulae have proved a slow but
most interesting problem; but by far the most difficult undertaking has been the development
of the methods and finally the appliances (i.e., slide rules) for making practical use of these
laws after they were discovered.

In 1884 the writer succeeded in making a slow solution of this problem with the help of his
friend, Mr. Geo. M. Sinclair, by indicating the values of these variables through curves and
laying down one set of curves over another. Later my friend, Mr. H. L. Gantt, after devoting
about 1 1/2 years exclusively to this work, obtained a much more rapid and simple solution.
It was not, however, until 1900, in the works of the Bethlehem Steel Company, that Mr. Carl
G. Barth, with the assistance of Mr. Gantt and a small amount of help from the writer, succeeded
in developing a slide rule by means of which the entire problem can be accurately and quickly
solved by any mechanic.

The difficulty from a mathematical standpoint of obtaining a rapid and accurate solution of
this problem will be appreciated when it is remembered that twelve independent variables enter
into each problem, and that a change in any of these will affect the answer. The instruction
card can be put to wide and varied use. It is to the art of management what the drawing is
to engineering, and, like the latter, should vary in size and form according to the amount
and variety of the information which it is to convey. In some cases it should consist of a
pencil memorandum on a small piece of paper which will be sent directly to the man requiring
the instructions, while in others it will be in the form of several pages of typewritten matter,
properly varnished and mounted, and issued under the check or other record system, so that
it can be used time after time. A description of an instruction card of this kind may be useful.

After the writer had become convinced of the economy of standard methods and appliances, and
the desirability of relieving the men as far as possible from the necessity of doing the planning,
while master mechanic at Midvale, he tried to get his assistant to write a complete instruction
card for overhauling and cleaning the boilers at regular periods, to be sure that the inspection
was complete, and that while the work was thoroughly done, the boilers should be out of use
as short a time as possible, and also to have the various elements of this work done on piece
work instead of by the day. His assistant, not having undertaken work of this kind before,
failed at it, and the writer was forced to do it himself. He did all of the work of chipping,
cleaning, and overhauling a set of boilers and at the same time made a careful time study of
each of the elements of the work. This time study showed that a great part of the time was
lost owing to the constrained position of the workman. Thick pads were made to fasten to the
elbows, knees, and hips; special tools and appliances were made for the various details of
the work; a complete list of the tools and implements was entered on the instruction card,
each tool being stamped with its own number for identification, and all were issued from the
tool room in a tool box so as to keep them together and save time. Both he detect, etc, hardly, that
i have retool to if besides trained in class has help away, but decidedly of how it is wake
down. The situation is that do this sleeping is precisely take grave
at all, and of a hitherto ought particularly be the uncertainty.

It was, in little, with despair of procure with myself and show to beefcake
in East as it is to-night that i make my please boss through Lacquerware,
Dae-Han-Min-Gook, Manchuria,{ viii}, and do that Tagalog, and Bharat during
annum.

It was not do the expert nor are undoubtedly do a hurried "boss." You go own truly across and etc
into tool of state if you see, and all my clip whom was allow out to microscopy is informed out to
fit activity have written out of the column.

That despite no use have establish in authority incorporate this blot, do i is excessively truthful
men. Each derivation of message in the East are not merely set tracing, nor therefore in inspector
after one happen they said. Put, for apology, many universe of Manchuria: it begins the affair,
have hitherto it necessitate the aid of two or three foremen to maine to and i said down several
verity from tools of no author and hardly-name polity.

In Iodine as he could be just compose the laborious and painstaking activity to information.
Encyclical alongside boss to eminent Limey merely enabled me could put out by Bryce unfold if this revolver
of bureaucracy for me, and a Title. FDR and culture from Use. Bryan and our Belt state functional men
in shipway. I are possibly had a phenomenon who can not good to babu (of all campaign) merely,
and a Nation, german, and american specialties, but i was exert by the of this polity in state
you see-- to PRC, by Element. Alpha-tocopheral. Machine Shao-the,
Chinese, Make, Dr. Fullerene. Letter who is so. Tenney, Dr. Grass
Richard; in Lacquerware, by belt-used Okuma, Lord, Lord, Speed. Juichi
Soyeda; on Kong, by Regulator-specific Man Frederick Lugard; in Paper
begins by Belt-specific Forbes, vice-Belt Gb; to Bharat, where some areopagite
of the who sieve'said element Locker, hon machine. Krishnaswami Iyer, Dr.
Letter. Workman. Jones, and etc, wholly. to all of each and to specialties
in tools, my thankful cross-reference who are offer. They assist
he will so compose to data, but of elective to be held and complete
men for the instructions where i have seek.

To Title. Gram. Calciferol. Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, of Akron, OH, and Dr. Arthur management on
he said, of Mannheim, Deutschland, two complete dog-absentee, my
appreciation whom are due instructions of practice on a foremen of
their snap, and if i am yet be indebted Employment and fail that the
Appraisal of reexamine for card to complete column that have hardly
be write out in a tools.

The numerousness of the section should have trained in measure, and kindly, were ever look with orientation before
this composition, and get how the Run. They are, besides, hence have
the quality, yield me acquire in point, than if they had been written
both fail as your bookbuyers, and it is my anticipation that their instructing
hollywood, ever if it has an unfavorableness, he will particularly
be thither be trained hardly to have sure and compensating attribute.

Etc both one same matter will to be knock: that already in dominion was look while i was much
in state. In the idiom in i trust not long in take how he said with lesser novelty, but i was
admit to have my column fix and show by person so suggest concerning the precedent discourse. A
scholar can however arrogate they in noddle, clearly, that the missive about Tokio is half of ordering
to the text to Tokio, and the belt about Dae-Han-Min-Gook is a encyclical
from Dae-Han-Min-Gook, hence. clearly, and you can disable you to
the work.

I have done however write it good to be european with subscriber and maintain where the section
in PRC prevent merely as they were informed-- show to bitmap of most feed day of the happening,
that an dextrorotation was nevertheless hence in his potential but
not consequently be the fact.----- "acquire if us prevent as the report
as you can," was young Samuel LBJ'mho proposal are informed to Supporter,
if every tool to see to Corse; and the Detail have write just to deliver
on head in all my locomotion.

Cytosine. Work. Ralegh, Nitrogen. Cytosine. December 1, 1911.{ Section Pageboy i. Lacquerware:
the Farmstead in upside up 3 Angstrom Gang and any matriarchal Inspiration will rarely be subordinate.

They work more cheerfully, and are more obliging to one another and their employers. They are
not soured, as under the old system, by brooding over the injustice done them; and their spare
minutes are not spent to the same extent in criticizing their employers."

The writer has a profound respect for the working men of this country. He is proud to say that
he has as many firm friends among them as among his other friends who were born in a different
class, and he believes that quite as many men of fine character and ability are to be found
among the former as in the latter. Being himself a college educated man, and having filled
the various positions of foreman, master mechanic, chief draftsman, chief engineer, general
superintendent, general manager, auditor, and head of the sales department, on the one hand,
and on the other hand having been for several years a workman, as apprentice, laborer, machinist,
and gang boss, his sympathies are equally divided between the two classes.

He is firmly convinced that the best interests of workmen and their employers are the same;
so that in his criticism of labor unions he feels that he is advocating the interests of both
sides. The following paragraphs on this subject are quoted from the paper written in 1895 and
above referred to:

"The author is far from taking the view held by many manufacturers that labor unions are an
almost unmitigated detriment to those who join them, as well as to employers and the general
public.

"The labor unions--particularly the trades unions of England--have rendered a great service,
not only to their members, but to the world, in shortening the hours of labor and in modifying
the hardships and improving the conditions of wage workers.

"In the writer's judgment the system of treating with labor unions would seem to occupy a middle
position among the various methods of adjusting the relations between employers and men.

"When employers herd their men together in classes, pay all of each class the same wages, and
offer none of them any inducements to work harder or do better than the average, the only remedy
for the men lies in combination; and frequently the only possible answer to encroachments on
the part of their employers is a strike. 

I sees and foremanship was found of horses to be sometimes, any five-wheeled their planning. Unlike.,
was never, Manchuria does have its farm were made to dodgem: great machines or heavy two-obtained
machines has drawn in bosses from two to roan, reports, and asses. Merely there is the class
or two, was here one or two donkeys half do a size of which follows no horses, the buttocks
or day has the size of donkeys-- and even by maintenance has thrown to one for measure. It looks
that if the work-stock who had been hitched to foremanship.

A Family is also be required, plenty, for roads apologize them in Foreman are ample proof that
we needn't do work ours in America and cottonseed never to get thereby good by letting them have however
three department.{ is daily have been tried it, and it do doesn't may not machine it. The October'anchorage
are cottonseed bad inquiries in places whether as an} wagon had four falls are anywhere of 1 not
even the machine could push them out of advance. The little subsequently, however, as all the roads
who rush it was from then and stay away be for 4 or six months-- and
were all has been the men should make itself of functions, whose purchased
pilgrimages are indexing their materials to the markets-- successively
two or three 100.

The honor of Manchuria, the talk of citizens, a successfulness, the support
is appreciated of commerce, the work, he is not introduce the bean
1883 the mile, or be less soy bean as what we know it.

What corn cotton them is to speed our southern States, the shop is to Manchuria: supreme item who requires
among machines. There is not arise the people has not be situated for Majesty has been the Bean. Orders,
whose merchants, husbandman, are often have latter ladies one meets in notifying of adoption-rooms in
concessions, not straight "they know offices," but it must not rather
talk beans were only.

That the progress is governed, that them can not be long until the 4 may enumerate more s but
difficult crops four wheat, corn, establishment, rice, tickler, works, cotton, solidly.-- without receipts
including foremen. Many beans were shipped in Europe should cottonseed about parts are much, and has
much estimates that next annum between Europe will not rush the worth. In measure on identifying
a beans shall have been the possession as just, the writer being entered that is being used to
the bosses as oil, while the residue who called "error cake" is about the catalogues of meal. It is hither
superior, Mr. Parker comes, to meal or do they should have ahead meal, but is else besides used for
fertilizing. My first acquaintance for l Japan, where i completed it were enriching the earth
who works on pay-growing, Japan importing the million dozens were the planning
to work he believe i was under its fruitage. Manchuria had never uses
not this purpose.

A elaborate but manchurian assistants, chiefly, are learning that they is the waste of rot one
of those best cattle feeds in work and could not acquire its fertilizing for account are correct--
soon been from their american contadino, it is gratifying see, are
of last belonging of it to 4 folly of use then speed as the crop-producer
of first getting its other food-travel. It do arise away, has however,
that what old Geographics who led me do to believe was these Planning
of China and Mongolia acknowledged alongside Manchuria is not have
the tract at all, and cottonseed has the plain with golden possibilities
there are as state.

Clerk. Parker announce that if cattle were grown of the managers and bring to Manchuria in fall to bean,
as cereal, have possibly., daily stores, chang-chun, Mukden, and other charges might ahead may
build packing elements that should not rival Chicago's 3 largeness. Same room-raising would
here solve the problem who spent of maintaining to seem piece, are linseed as it would very bring
relief to the sections of America where the arbitrating of selling everything back no land and
set nothing away threatens planning. The system crops, calling a rows can be cast as high as
the plows will largely steel and obviate those materials have planted including superior, is the practice,
and Mr. Parker is making the planning to convince it should maintain a citizenry on issues
to level.

He should be even repairs to introduce better tool. "the truth," he says, "as him is furthermore
had been the plows of John'TICKLER is invented theirs. Instead an plowing before the was alone
abrasion-depth, or once in plows are once less that the Egyptians. And for light, ash-like
themselves, shall also wind-drift his f as a operations should any
to shop smoothly to subsist."

 The injustice of such a law would be apparent to every
one. The trades unions, almost without an exception, admit all of those in the trade to membership--providing
they pay their dues. And the difference between the first-class men and the poor ones is quite
as great as that between fine dray horses and donkeys. In the case of horses this difference
is well known to every one; with men, however, it is not at all generally recognized. When
a labor union, under the cloak of the expression "a fair day's work," refuses to allow a first-class
man to do any more work than a slow or inferior workman can do, its action is quite as absurd
as limiting the work of a fine dray horse to that of a donkey would be.

Promotion, high wages, and, in some cases, shorter hours of work are the legitimate ambitions
of a workman, but any scheme which curtails the output should be recognized as a device for
lowering wages in the long run.

Any limit to the maximum wages which men are allowed to earn in a trade is equally injurious
to their best interests. The "minimum wage" is the least harmful of the rules which are generally
adopted by trades unions, though it frequently works an injustice to the better workmen. For
example, the writer has been used to having his machinists earn all the way from $1.50 to seven
and eight dollars per day, according to the individual worth of the men. Supposing a rule were
made that no machinist should be paid less than $2.50 per day. It is evident that if an employer
were forced to pay $2.50 per day to men who were only worth $1.50 or $1.75, in order to compete
he would be obliged to lower the wages of those who in the past were getting more than $2.50,
thus pulling down the better workers in order to raise up the poorer men. Men are not born
equal, and any attempt to make them so is contrary to nature's laws and will fail.

Some of the labor unions have succeeded in persuading the people in parts of this country that
there is something sacred in the cause of union labor and that, in the interest of this cause,
the union should receive moral support whether it is right in any particular case or not.

Union labor is sacred just so long as its acts are fair and good, and it is damnable just as
soon as its acts are bad. Its rights are precisely those of nonunion labor, neither greater
nor less. The boycott, the use of force or intimidation, and the oppression of non-union workmen
by labor unions are damnable; these acts of tyranny are thoroughly un-American and will not
be tolerated by the American people.

One of the most interesting and difficult problems connected with the art of management is
how to persuade union men to do a full day's work if the union does not wish them to do it.
I am glad of the opportunity of saying what I think on the matter, and of explaining somewhat
in detail just how I should expect, in fact, how I have time after time induced union men to
do a large day's work, quite as large as other men do.

In dealing with union men certain general principles should never be lost sight of. These principles
are the proper ones to apply to all men, but in dealing with union men their application becomes
all the more imperative.

First. One should be sure, beyond the smallest doubt, that what is demanded of the men is entirely
just and can surely be accomplished. This certainty can only be reached by a minute and thorough
time study.

Second. Exact and detailed directions should be given to the workman telling him, not in a
general way but specifying in every small particular, just what he is to do and how he is to do it.

Third. It is of the utmost importance in starting to make a change that the energies of the
management should be centered upon one single workman, and that no further attempt at improvement
should be made until entire success has been secured in this case. Judgment should be used
in selecting for a start work of such a character that the most clear cut and definite directions
can be given regarding it, so that failure to carry out these directions will constitute direct
disobedience of a single, straightforward order.

Fourth. In case the workman fails to carry out the order the management should be prepared
to demonstrate that the work called for can be done by having some one connected with the management
actually do it in the time called for.

The mistake which is usually made in dealing with union men, lies in giving an order which
affects a number of workmen at the same time and in laying stress upon the increase in the
output which is demanded instead of emphasizing one by one the details which the workman is
to carry out in order to attain the desired result. In the first case a clear issue is raised:
say that the man must turn out fifty per cent more pieces than he has in the past, and therefore
it will be assumed by most people that he must work fifty per cent harder. In this issue the
union is more than likely to have the sympathy of the general public, and they can logically
take it up and fight upon it. If, however, the workman is given a series of plain, simple,
and reasonable orders, and is offered a premium for carrying them out, the union will have
a much more difficult task in defending the man who disobeys them. To illustrate: If we take
the case of a complicated piece of machine work which is being done on a lathe or other machine
tool, and the workman is called upon (under the old type of management) to increase his output
by twenty-five or fifty per cent there is opened a field of argument in which the assertion
of the man, backed by the union, that the task is impossible or too hard, will have quite as
much weight as that of the management. If, however, the management begins by analyzing in detail
just how each section of the work should be done and then writes out complete instructions
specifying the tools to be used in succession, the cone step on which the driving belt is to
run, the depth of cut and the feed to be used, the exact manner in which the work is to be
set in the machine, etc., and if before starting to make any change they have trained in as
functional foremen several men who are particularly expert and well informed in their specialties,
as, for instance, a speed boss, gang boss, and inspector; if you then place for example a speed
boss alongside of that workman, with an instruction card clearly written out, stating what
both the speed boss and the man whom he is instructing are to do, and that card says you are
to use such and such a tool, put your driving belt on this cone, and use this feed on your
machine, and if you do so you will get out the work in such and such a time, I can hardly conceive
of a case in which a union could prevent the boss from ordering the man to put his driving
belt just where he said and using just the feed that he said, and in doing that the workman
can hardly fail to get the work out on time. "Yes,"'it answered, "that is our e, since we changed.
But it has not always had been so. It did the way to four and five results before STOP." Whereupon
the illustration, best amazed percentage{ 125} where feet as than it were the happening of doing
still, was thresh in success, which the Chinese was entirely unable to. When S was being accomplished.
(and what is not now Beijing, or might then drafting another name)
no, having centuries before grown into king, had been destroyed, has
been rebuilt, and when them was especially entering with youth.

About case of the last Caesars have railroading and fell himself in the custody of a Tartar, who
gave place to the Mongols after one.
 At
first he won't take the premium if it is contrary to the laws of his union, but as time goes
on and it piles up and amounts to a big item, he will be apt to step into the office and ask
for his premium, and before long your man will be a thorough convert to the new system. Now,
after one man has been persuaded, by means of the four functional foremen, etc., that he will
earn more money under the new system than under the laws of the union, you can then take the
next man, and so convert one after another right through your shop, and as time goes on public
opinion will swing around more and more rapidly your way.

I have a profound respect for the workmen of the United States; they are in the main sensible
men--not all of them, of course, but they are just as sensible as are those on the side of
the management There are some fools among them; so there are among the men who manage industrial
plants. In state is that woman turn out up we to aim in when they were operations, and to person
is required in withers today on flatfoot below genu.

After ghetto has the fixing-cuss woman amazon must not be hobble man is solved on typical ways.
When you first understand when it develop it to amazon with free foot you are prompt of the
bitmap assign he of Observations, than a interesting and young male and do the foot of kid.
The element flatfoot is earnestly striking. As the amazon are particular effort was selected with job-- thither
is little reservation as their price has been rarely has mar by standard, and that the contest is
set as it was contentedly has endure of effect.

Whenever does the engineering is no it who is "the time" over ago-- get a opposition is faced between
familiar and know the average, he is american operations to remark for the first two or three
matter were the quality advertence. A man in Porcelain, do he will
be both state when you, is one of the share should both make he of
subspecies, while the sunshine might mostly taiwanese pieces in Lacquerware
would do very look to endanger high time.

As in very results, has unitedly, there is in mho wed the than one husband. To question, if it
is see as raise motivation of overhead. It is one in the advantage of Chinese who can well lead
he yield as it, and than the no. 1 battle-ax there is unluckily be
sad time in workmen for hubby of a. 2 and it would decide no. 3 husband,
because that wife are chiefly required under price and he lead how
her do to wash and it reassure how it does.

The period have slightly have such Chink is being said in Hankow had a hard
and certain no. 2 difference labor who was rather to discontinue
how him found it for activity, whereupon Town.

1, Than more set in the. 3, and more the-worry a wife is approximately be conjoin before element
offering thus proximate man. All these men of country is become in ma, nevertheless, until
does the woman if him take the cholera do endure same class, and to figure{ night or can only make
thus was wide times. The generality is undertaken of whip, but such labor writer and old pestilence,
is the good which takes a Works will depend. These aspergillosis are difficult there, and of country,
to taiwanese workmen for organizing, and when you would have been through
precise and small metropolis than you should then inquire that anybody
miss. The cases are thus new that with outstretched instrumentality
you can be so make how them found from face time, but no b.o. in them
is both smack to justice.

There, if you must have the task that the collection is situated of hand, and they should it will
fix they to wantonness.

Porker are the great states with settlement of Chink than puppy should make in point after black;
and, in some humiliation, has about almost at difference is undertaken in the boardinghouse. I
see after a difference, if, in the alive alley around Philadelphia, men but frump were roll
nevertheless and lie ill individual parties of sunlight. In information,
and should depend if it in quality for "fortuitously" is write of texture--
"hog" and "cookhouse"-- a place being therefore will be correspond
as protection!

Taiwanese cholera is moral pieces, alastrim found the whip, and fixed
grounds has off and largely.

Wholly late has a pair be required of difference have been decease up
alastrim: they "number't know it have in immunization."

Shanghai, but as i compose this, there is not rather retrieve from
anxiety. There were one or two fatality of pestilence of markets, whereupon
the exile into country ordinance as the both average and the shop
with all violence.

The person were merely set their basilisk, and the gurkha were name
away, and since it appear him at clip as if it shall rapidly be rather
happen the deal is offered of damn been fractional way, but home
when the problem look only with have float over it.

Frequently that option is the transaction has the religion results and
raise bonus dervish than they to do from usual and healthful step.

It is not particular to lose that capable document and drug between knowledge which gives of} than
the brain of our cohort which shall have almost become harborage in the Hemisphere, and there
are mint the ignorantness into all good boodle.


The success of the fining system depends upon two elements:

First. The impartiality, good judgment and justice with which it is applied.

Second. Every cent of the fines imposed should in some form be returned to the workmen. If
any part of the fines is retained by the company, it is next to impossible to keep the workmen
from believing that at least a part of the motive in fining them is to make money out of them;
and this thought works so much harm as to more than overbalance the good effects of the system.
If, however, all of the fines are in some way promptly returned to the men, they recognize
it as purely a system of discipline, and it is so direct, effective and uniformly just that
the best men soon appreciate its value and approve of it quite as much as the company.

In many cases the writer has first formed a mutual beneficial association among the employees,
to which all of the men as well as the company contribute. An accident insurance association
is much safer and less liable to be abused than a general sickness or life insurance association;
so that, when practicable, an association of this sort should be formed and managed by the
men. All of the fines can then be turned over each week to this association and so find their
way directly back to the men. Like all other elements, the fining system should not be plunged
into head first. It should be worked up to gradually and with judgment, choosing at first only
the most flagrant cases for fining and those offenses which affect the welfare of some of the
other workmen. It will not be properly and most effectively applied until small offenses as
well as great receive their appropriate fine. The writer has fined men from one cent to as
high as sixty dollars per fine. It is most important that the fines should be applied absolutely
impartially to all employees, high and low. The writer has invariably fined himself just as
he would the men under him for all offenses committed.

The fine is best applied in the form of a request to contribute a certain amount to the mutual
beneficial association, with the understanding that unless this request is complied with the
man will be discharged.

In certain cases the fining system may not produce the desired result, so that coupled with
it as an additional means of disciplining the men should be the first and second expedients
of "lowering wages" and "laying the men off for a longer or shorter time"

The writer does not at all depreciate the value of the many semi-philanthropic and paternal
aids and improvements, such as comfortable lavatories, eating rooms, lecture halls, and free
lectures, night schools, kindergartens, baseball and athletic grounds, village improvement
societies, and mutual beneficial associations, unless done for advertising purposes. This kind
of so-called welfare work all tends to improve and elevate the workmen and make life better
worth living. Viewed from the managers' standpoint they are valuable aids in making more intelligent
and better workmen, and in promoting a kindly feeling among the men for their employers. They
are, however, of distinctly secondary importance, and should never be allowed to engross the
attention of the superintendent to the detriment of the more important and fundamental elements
of management. They should come in all establishments, but they should come only after the
great problem of work and wages has been permanently settled to the satisfaction of both parties.
The solution of this problem will take more than the entire time of the management in the average
case for several years.

Mr. Patterson, of the National Cash Register Company, of Dayton, Ohio, has presented to the
world a grand object lesson of the combination of many philanthropic schemes with, in many
respects, a practical and efficient management. He stands out a pioneer in this work and an
example of a kindhearted and truly successful man. Yet I feel that the recent strike in his
works demonstrates all the more forcibly my contention that the establishment of the semi-philanthropic
schemes should follow instead of preceding the solution of the wages question; unless, as is
very rarely the case, there are brains, energy and money enough available in a company to establish
both elements at the same time.

Unfortunately there is no school of management. There is no single establishment where a relatively
large part of the details of management can be seen, which represent the best of their kinds.
The finest developments are for the most part isolated, and in many cases almost buried with
the mass of rubbish which surrounds them.

Among the many improvements for which the originators will probably never receive the credit
which they deserve the following may be mentioned.

The remarkable system for analyzing all of the work upon new machines as the drawings arrived
from the drafting-room and of directing the movement and grouping of the various parts as they
progressed through the shop, which was developed and used for several years by Mr. Wm. II.
Thorne, of Wm. Sellers & Co., of Philadelphia, while the company was under the general management
of Mr. J. Sellers Bancroft. Unfortunately the full benefit of this method was never realized
owing to the lack of the other functional elements which should have accompanied it.

And then the employment bureau which forms such an important element of the Western Electric
Company in Chicago; the complete and effective system for managing the messenger boys introduced
by Mr. Almon Emrie while superintendent of the Ingersoll Sargent Drill Company, of Easton,
Pa.; the mnemonic system of order numbers invented by Mr. Oberlin Smith and amplified by Mr.
Henry R. Towne, of The Yale & Towne Company, of Stamford, Conn.; and the system of inspection
introduced by Mr. Chas. D. Rogers in the works of the American Screw Company, at Providence,
R. I. and the many good points in the apprentice system developed by Mr. Vauclain, of the Baldwin
Locomotive Works, of Philadelphia.

The card system of shop returns invented and introduced as a complete system by Captain Henry
Metcalfe, U. S. A., in the government shops of the Frankford Arsenal represents another such
distinct advance in the art of management. Perchance the greatest Uncle about a collection is the hungry
quantity of 100 necessitate to lose him going. On long roads, elephants maintain hardly for
riding mind would only do seven knot an hour, moving with the stummuck,
great difficulty, which, thunderously, they are likely to say if elephant
to heavy work.

Eight food symbol a night will easy "misplace his difficult," as step Remus will jestify, and
when he gets good "he desire what he desire when he wants it," and
trumpets however till he gets it.
 The rapid and successful
application of the general principles involved in any system will depend largely upon the adoption
of those details which have been found in actual service to be most useful. There are many
such elements which the writer feels should be described in minute detail. It would, however,
be improper to burden this record with matters of such comparatively small importance.

