We grown people can tell ourselves a story, give and take  strokes until the bucklers ring,
ride far and fast, marry,  fall, and die; all the while sitting quietly by the fire or  lying
prone in bed.  This is exactly what a child cannot do,  or does not do, at least, when he can
find anything else.  He  works all with lay figures and stage properties.  When his  story
comes to the fighting, he must rise, get something by  way of a sword and have a set-to with
a piece of furniture,  until he is out of breath.  When he comes to ride with the  king's pardon,
he must bestride a chair, which he will so  hurry and belabour and on which he will so furiously
demean  himself, that the messenger will arrive, if not bloody with  spurring, at least fiery
red with haste.  If his romance  involves an accident upon a cliff, he must clamber in person
about the chest of drawers and fall bodily upon the carpet,  before his imagination is satisfied.
Lead soldiers, dolls,  all toys, in short, are in the same category and answer the  same end.
Nothing can stagger a child's faith; he accepts the  clumsiest substitutes and can swallow
the most staring  incongruities.  The chair he has just been besieging as a  castle, or valiantly
cutting to the ground as a dragon, is  taken away for the accommodation of a morning visitor,
and he  is nothing abashed; he can skirmish by the hour with a  stationary coal-scuttle; in
the midst of the enchanted  pleasance, he can see, without sensible shock, the gardener  soberly
digging potatoes for the day's dinner.  He can make  abstraction of whatever does not fit into
his fable; and he  puts his eyes into his pocket, just as we hold our noses in an  unsavoury
lane.  And so it is, that although the ways of  children cross with those of their elders in
a hundred places  daily, they never go in the same direction nor so much as lie  in the same
element.  So may the telegraph wires intersect the  line of the high-road, or so might a landscape
painter and a  bagman visit the same country, and yet move in different  worlds.

People struck with these spectacles cry aloud about the  power of imagination in the young.
Indeed there may be two  words to that.  It is, in some ways, but a pedestrian fancy  that
the child exhibits.  It is the grown people who make the  nursery stories; all the children
do, is jealously to preserve  the text.  One out of a dozen reasons why ROBINSON CRUSOE  should
be so popular with youth, is that it hits their level  in this matter to a nicety; Crusoe was
always at makeshifts  and had, in so many words, to PLAY at a great variety of  professions;
and then the book is all about tools, and there  is nothing that delights a child so much.
Hammers and saws  belong to a province of life that positively calls for  imitation.  The juvenile
lyrical drama, surely of the most  ancient Thespian model, wherein the trades of mankind are
successively simulated to the running burthen "On a cold and  frosty morning," gives a good
instance of the artistic taste  in children.  And this need for overt action and lay figures
testifies to a defect in the child's imagination which  prevents him from carrying out his
novels in the privacy of  his own heart.  He does not yet know enough of the world and  men.
His experience is incomplete.  That stage-wardrobe and  scene-room that we call the memory
is so ill provided, that he  can overtake few combinations and body out few stories, to his
own content, without some external aid.  He is at the  experimental stage; he is not sure how
one would feel in  certain circumstances; to make sure, he must come as near  trying it as
his means permit.  And so here is young heroism  with a wooden sword, and mothers practice
their kind vocation  over a bit of jointed stick.  It may be laughable enough just  now; but
it is these same people and these same thoughts, that  not long hence, when they are on the
theatre of life, will  make you weep and tremble.  For children think very much the  same thoughts
and dream the same dreams, as bearded men and  marriageable women.  No one is more romantic.
Fame and  honour, the love of young men and the love of mothers, the  business man's pleasure
in method, all these and others they  anticipate and rehearse in their play hours.  Upon us,
who are  further advanced and fairly dealing with the threads of  destiny, they only glance
from time to time to glean a hint  for their own mimetic reproduction.  Two children playing
at  soldiers are far more interesting to each other than one of  the scarlet beings whom both
are busy imitating.  This is  perhaps the greatest oddity of all.  "Art for art" is their 
motto; and the doings of grown folk are only interesting as  the raw material for play.  Not
Theophile Gautier, not  Flaubert, can look more callously upon life, or rate the  reproduction
more highly over the reality; and they will  parody an execution, a deathbed, or the funeral
of the young  man of Nain, with all the cheerfulness in the world.  Our day-dreams can no longer
lie all in the air like a story in the ARABIAN NIGHTS; they  read to us rather like the history
of a period in which we  ourselves had taken part, where we come across many  unfortunate passages
and find our own conduct smartly  reprimanded.  And then the child, mind you, acts his parts.
He does not merely repeat them to himself; he leaps, he runs,  and sets the blood agog over
all his body.  And so his play  breathes him; and he no sooner assumes a passion than he gives
it vent.

In the child's world of dim sensation, play is all in  all.  "Making believe" is the gist of
his whole life, and he  cannot so much as take a walk except in character.  I could  not learn
my alphabet without some suitable MISE-EN-SCENE, and  had to act a business man in an office
before I could sit down  to my book.  Will you kindly question your memory, and find  out how
much you did, work or pleasure, in good faith and  soberness, and for how much you had to cheat
yourself with  some invention?  I remember, as though it were yesterday, the  expansion of
spirit, the dignity and self-reliance, that came  with a pair of mustachios in burnt cork,
even when there was  none to see.  Children are even content to forego what we call  the realities,
and prefer the shadow to the substance.  When  they might be speaking intelligibly together,
they chatter  senseless gibberish by the hour, and are quite happy because  they are making
believe to speak French.  I have said already  how even the imperious appetite of hunger suffers
itself to be  gulled and led by the nose with the fag end of an old song.   And it goes deeper
than this: when children are together even  a meal is felt as an interruption in the business
of life; and  they must find some imaginative sanction, and tell themselves  some sort of story,
to account for, to colour, to render  entertaining, the simple processes of eating and drinking.
What wonderful fancies I have heard evolved out of the pattern  upon tea-cups! - from which
there followed a code of rules and  a whole world of excitement, until tea-drinking began to
take  rank as a game.  When my cousin and I took our porridge of a  morning, we had a device
to enliven the course of the meal.   He ate his with sugar, and explained it to be a country
continually buried under snow.  I took mine with milk, and  explained it to be a country suffering
gradual inundation.   You can imagine us exchanging bulletins; how here was an  island still
unsubmerged, here a valley not yet covered with  snow; what inventions were made; how his population
lived in  cabins on perches and travelled on stilts, and how mine was  always in boats; how
the interest grew furious, as the last  corner of safe ground was cut off on all sides and
grew  smaller every moment; and how in fine, the food was of  altogether secondary importance,
and might even have been  nauseous, so long as we seasoned it with these dreams.  But  perhaps
the most exciting moments I ever had over a meal, were  in the case of calves' feet jelly.
It was hardly possible not  to believe - and you may be sure, so far from trying, I did  all
I could to favour the illusion - that some part of it was  hollow, and that sooner or later
my spoon would lay open the  secret tabernacle of the golden rock.  There, might some  miniature
RED BEARD await his hour; there, might one find the  treasures of the FORTY THIEVES, and bewildered
Cassim beating  about the walls.  And so I quarried on slowly, with bated  breath, savouring
the interest.  Believe me, I had little  palate left for the jelly; and though I preferred
the taste  when I took cream with it, I used often to go without, because  the cream dimmed
the transparent fractures.

Even with games, this spirit is authoritative with right- minded children.  It is thus that
hide-and-seek has so pre- eminent a sovereignty, for it is the wellspring of romance,  and
the actions and the excitement to which it gives rise lend  themselves to almost any sort of
fable.  And thus cricket,  which is a mere matter of dexterity, palpably about nothing  and
for no end, often fails to satisfy infantile craving.  It  is a game, if you like, but not
a game of play.  You cannot  tell yourself a story about cricket; and the activity it calls
forth can be justified on no rational theory.  Even football,  although it admirably simulates
the tug and the ebb and flow  of battle, has presented difficulties to the mind of young  sticklers
after verisimilitude; and I knew at least one little  boy who was mightily exercised about
the presence of the ball,  and had to spirit himself up, whenever he came to play, with  an
elaborate story of enchantment, and take the missile as a  sort of talisman bandied about in
conflict between two Arabian  nations.

To think of such a frame of mind, is to become disquieted  about the bringing up of children.
Surely they dwell in a  mythological epoch, and are not the contemporaries of their  parents.
What can they think of them? what can they make of  these bearded or petticoated giants who
look down upon their  games? who move upon a cloudy Olympus, following unknown  designs apart
from rational enjoyment? who profess the  tenderest solicitude for children, and yet every
now and again  reach down out of their altitude and terribly vindicate the  prerogatives of
age?  Off goes the child, corporally smarting,  but morally rebellious.  Were there ever such
unthinkable  deities as parents?  I would give a great deal to know what,  in nine cases out
of ten, is the child's unvarnished feeling.   A sense of past cajolery; a sense of personal
attraction, at  best very feeble; above all, I should imagine, a sense of  terror for the untried
residue of mankind go to make up the  attraction that he feels.  No wonder, poor little heart,
with  such a weltering world in front of him, if he clings to the  hand he knows!  The dread
irrationality of the whole affair,  as it seems to children, is a thing we are all too ready
to  forget.  "O, why," I remember passionately wondering, "why can  we not all be happy and
devote ourselves to play?"  And when  children do philosophise, I believe it is usually to
very much  the same purpose.

I am reminded, as I write, that the child is very  inquiring as to the precise truth of stories.
But indeed this  is a very different matter, and one bound up with the subject  of play, and
the precise amount of playfulness, or  playability, to be looked for in the world.  Many such
burning  questions must arise in the course of nursery education.   Among the fauna of this
planet, which already embraces the  pretty soldier and the terrifying Irish beggarman, is,
or is  not, the child to expect a Bluebeard or a Cormoran?  Is he, or  is he not, to look out
for magicians, kindly and potent?  May  he, or may he not, reasonably hope to be cast away
upon a  desert island, or turned to such diminutive proportions that  he can live on equal
terms with his lead soldiery, and go a  cruise in his own toy schooner?  Surely all these are
practical questions to a neophyte entering upon life with a  view to play.  Precision upon
such a point, the child can  understand.  But if you merely ask him of his past behaviour,
as to who threw such a stone, for instance, or struck such and  such a match; or whether he
had looked into a parcel or gone  by a forbidden path, - why, he can see no moment in the 
inquiry, and it is ten to one, he has already half forgotten  and half bemused himself with
subsequent imaginings.  It is this that so few can understand;  they will either be always
lounging or always at five miles an  hour; they do not play off the one against the other,
prepare  all day for the evening, and all evening for the next day.   And, above all, it is
here that your overwalker fails of  comprehension.  His heart rises against those who drink
their  curacoa in liqueur glasses, when he himself can swill it in a  brown john.  He will
not believe that the flavour is more  delicate in the smaller dose.  He will not believe that
to  walk this unconscionable distance is merely to stupefy and  brutalise himself, and come
to his inn, at night, with a sort  of frost on his five wits, and a starless night of darkness
in  his spirit.  Not for him the mild luminous evening of the  temperate walker!  He has nothing
left of man but a physical  need for bedtime and a double nightcap; and even his pipe, if 
he be a smoker, will be savourless and disenchanted.  It is  the fate of such an one to take
twice as much trouble as is  needed to obtain happiness, and miss the happiness in the end;
he is the man of the proverb, in short, who goes further and  fares worse.

Now, to be properly enjoyed, a walking tour should be  gone upon alone.  If you go in a company,
or even in pairs, it  is no longer a walking tour in anything but name; it is  something else
and more in the nature of a picnic.  "I cannot see the wit," says Hazlitt, "of  walking and
talking at the same time.  When I am in the  country I wish to vegetate like the country,"
- which is the  gist of all that can be said upon the matter.  There should be  no cackle of
voices at your elbow, to jar on the meditative  silence of the morning.  And so long as a man
is reasoning he  cannot surrender himself to that fine intoxication that comes  of much motion
in the open air, that begins in a sort of  dazzle and sluggishness of the brain, and ends in
a peace that  passes comprehension.

During the first day or so of any tour there are moments  of bitterness, when the traveller
feels more than coldly  towards his knapsack, when he is half in a mind to throw it  bodily
over the hedge and, like Christian on a similar  occasion, "give three leaps and go on singing."
And yet it  soon acquires a property of easiness.  It becomes magnetic;  the spirit of the
journey enters into it.  And no sooner have  you passed the straps over your shoulder than
the lees of  sleep are cleared from you, you pull yourself together with a  shake, and fall
at once into your stride.  And surely, of all  possible moods, this, in which a man takes the
road, is the  best.  Of course, if he WILL keep thinking of his anxieties,  if he WILL open
the merchant Abudah's chest and walk arm-in- arm with the hag - why, wherever he is, and whether
he walk  fast or slow, the chances are that he will not be happy.  And  so much the more shame
to himself!  There are perhaps thirty  men setting forth at that same hour, and I would lay
a large  wager there is not another dull face among the thirty.  It  would be a fine thing
to follow, in a coat of darkness, one  after another of these wayfarers, some summer morning,
for the  first few miles upon the road.  This one, who walks fast, with  a keen look in his
eyes, is all concentrated in his own mind;  he is up at his loom, weaving and weaving, to set
the  landscape to words.  This one peers about, as he goes, among  the grasses; he waits by
the canal to watch the dragon-flies;  he leans on the gate of the pasture, and cannot look
enough  upon the complacent kine.  And here comes another, talking,  laughing, and gesticulating
to himself.  His face changes from  time to time, as indignation flashes from his eyes or anger
clouds his forehead.  He is composing articles, delivering  orations, and conducting the most
impassioned interviews, by  the way.  A little farther on, and it is as like as not he  will
begin to sing.  And well for him, supposing him to be no  great master in that art, if he stumble
across no stolid  peasant at a corner; for on such an occasion, I scarcely know  which is the
more troubled, or whether it is worse to suffer  the confusion of your troubadour, or the unfeigned
alarm of  your clown.  A sedentary population, accustomed, besides, to  the strange mechanical
bearing of the common tramp, can in no  wise explain to itself the gaiety of these passers-by.
I knew  one man who was arrested as a runaway lunatic, because,  although a full-grown person
with a red beard, he skipped as  he went like a child.  And you would be astonished if I were
to tell you all the grave and learned heads who have confessed  to me that, when on walking
tours, they sang - and sang very  ill - and had a pair of red ears when, as described above,
the  inauspicious peasant plumped into their arms from round a  corner.

Bravo!  After that adventure of my friend with the  policeman, you would not have cared, would
you, to publish  that in the first person?  But we have no bravery nowadays,  and, even in
books, must all pretend to be as dull and foolish  as our neighbours.  It was not so with Hazlitt.
And notice  how learned he is (as, indeed, throughout the essay) in the  theory of walking
tours.  He is none of your athletic men in  purple stockings, who walk their fifty miles a
day: three  hours' march is his ideal.  And then he must have a winding  road, the epicure!

Yet there is one thing I object to in these words of his,  one thing in the great master's
practice that seems to me not  wholly wise.  I do not approve of that leaping and running.
Both of these hurry the respiration; they both shake up the  brain out of its glorious open-air
confusion; and they both  break the pace.  Uneven walking is not so agreeable to the  body,
and it distracts and irritates the mind.  Whereas, when  once you have fallen into an equable
stride, it requires no  conscious thought from you to keep it up, and yet it prevents  you
from thinking earnestly of anything else.  Like knitting,  like the work of a copying clerk,
it gradually neutralises and  sets to sleep the serious activity of the mind.  We can think
of this or that, lightly and laughingly, as a child thinks, or  as we think in a morning dose;
we can make puns or puzzle out  acrostics, and trifle in a thousand ways with words and  rhymes;
but when it comes to honest work, when we come to  gather ourselves together for an effort,
we may sound the  trumpet as loud and long as we please; the great barons of the  mind will
not rally to the standard, but sit, each one, at  home, warming his hands over his own fire
and brooding on his  own private thought!

In the course of a day's walk, you see, there is much  variance in the mood.  From the exhilaration
of the start, to  the happy phlegm of the arrival, the change is certainly  great.  As the
day goes on, the traveller moves from the one  extreme towards the other.  He becomes more
and more  incorporated with the material landscape, and the open-air  drunkenness grows upon
him with great strides, until he posts  along the road, and sees everything about him, as in
a  cheerful dream.  The first is certainly brighter, but the  second stage is the more peaceful.
A man does not make so  many articles towards the end, nor does he laugh aloud; but  the purely
animal pleasures, the sense of physical wellbeing,  the delight of every inhalation, of every
time the muscles  tighten down the thigh, console him for the absence of the  others, and bring
him to his destination still content.

Nor must I forget to say a word on bivouacs.  You come to  a milestone on a hill, or some place
where deep ways meet  under trees; and off goes the knapsack, and down you sit to  smoke a
pipe in the shade.  You sink into yourself, and the  birds come round and look at you; and
your smoke dissipates  upon the afternoon under the blue dome of heaven; and the sun  lies
warm upon your feet, and the cool air visits your neck  and turns aside your open shirt.  If
you are not happy, you  must have an evil conscience.  You may dally as long as you  like by
the roadside.  It is to be  noticed, there were no clocks and watches in the much-vaunted 
days before the flood.  It follows, of course, there were no  appointments, and punctuality
was not yet thought upon.   "Though ye take from a covetous man all his treasure," says  Milton,
"he has yet one jewel left; ye cannot deprive him of  his covetousness."  And so I would say
of a modern man of  business, you may do what you will for him, put him in Eden,  give him
the elixir of life - he has still a flaw at heart, he  still has his business habits.

But it is at night, and after dinner, that the best hour  comes.  There are no such pipes to
be smoked as those that  follow a good day's march; the flavour of the tobacco is a  thing
to be remembered, it is so dry and aromatic, so full and  so fine.  If you wind up the evening
with grog, you will own  there was never such grog; at every sip a jocund tranquillity  spreads
about your limbs, and sits easily in your heart.  If  you read a book - and you will never
do so save by fits and  starts - you find the language strangely racy and harmonious;  words
take a new meaning; single sentences possess the ear for  half an hour together; and the writer
endears himself to you,  at every page, by the nicest coincidence of sentiment.  It  seems
as if it were a book you had written yourself in a  dream.  To all we have read on such occasions
we look back  with special favour.  "It was on the 10th of April, 1798,"  says Hazlitt, with
amorous precision, "that I sat down to a  volume of the new HELOISE, at the Inn at Llangollen,
over a  bottle of sherry and a cold chicken."  I should wish to quote  more, for though we
are mighty fine fellows nowadays, we  cannot write like Hazlitt.  And, talking of that, a volume
of  Hazlitt's essays would be a capital pocket-book on such a  journey; so would a volume of
Heine's songs; and for TRISTRAM  SHANDY I can pledge a fair experience.

Or perhaps you are left to your own company for the  night, and surly weather imprisons you
by the fire.  You may  remember how Burns, numbering past pleasures, dwells upon the  hours
when he has been "happy thinking."  It is a phrase that  may well perplex a poor modern, girt
about on every side by  clocks and chimes, and haunted, even at night, by flaming  dial-plates.
After all, it is not they who carry flags, but they who look  upon it from a private chamber,
who have the fun of the  procession.  And once you are at that, you are in the very  humour
of all social heresy.  It is no time for shuffling, or  for big, empty words.  If you ask yourself
what you mean by  fame, riches, or learning, the answer is far to seek; and you  go back into
that kingdom of light imaginations, which seem so  vain in the eyes of Philistines perspiring
after wealth, and  so momentous to those who are stricken with the disproportions  of the world,
and, in the face of the gigantic stars, cannot  stop to split differences between two degrees
of the  infinitesimally small, such as a tobacco pipe or the Roman  Empire, a million of money
or a fiddlestick's end.

You lean from the window, your last pipe reeking whitely  into the darkness, your body full
of delicious pains, your  mind enthroned in the seventh circle of content; when suddenly  the
mood changes, the weather-cock goes about, and you ask  yourself one question more: whether,
for the interval, you  have been the wisest philosopher or the most egregious of  donkeys?
Human experience is not yet able to reply; but at  least you have had a fine moment, and looked
down upon all the  kingdoms of the earth.  And whether it was wise or foolish,  to-morrow's
travel will carry you, body and mind, into some  different parish of the infinite.

CHAPTER XI - PAN'S PIPES

THE world in which we live has been variously said and  sung by the most ingenious poets and
philosophers: these  reducing it to formulae and chemical ingredients, those  striking the
lyre in high-sounding measures for the handiwork  of God.  What experience supplies is of a
mingled tissue, and  the choosing mind has much to reject before it can get  together the materials
of a theory.  Dew and thunder,  destroying Atilla and the Spring lambkins, belong to an order
of contrasts which no repetition can assimilate.  There is an  uncouth, outlandish strain throughout
the web of the world, as  from a vexatious planet in the house of life.  Things are not  congruous
and wear strange disguises: the consummate flower is  fostered out of dung, and after nourishing
itself awhile with  heaven's delicate distillations, decays again into  indistinguishable soil;
and with Caesar's ashes, Hamlet tells  us, the urchins make dirt pies and filthily besmear
their  countenance.  Nay, the kindly shine of summer, when tracked  home with the scientific
spyglass, is found to issue from the  most portentous nightmare of the universe - the great,
conflagrant sun: a world of hell's squibs, tumultuary, roaring  aloud, inimical to life.  The
sun itself is enough to disgust  a human being of the scene which he inhabits; and you would
not fancy there was a green or habitable spot in a universe  thus awfully lighted up.  And
yet it is by the blaze of such a  conflagration, to which the fire of Rome was but a spark,
that  we do all our fiddling, and hold domestic tea-parties at the  arbour door.

