I asked him which side he had loved. "The left side," he said. At five-and-twenty he had conquered
the habit, and I was not born till he was almost sixty-one! yet I had inherited it. We never
referred to it again, and in two years I, also, had conquered it.

We spent the winter of the year in which I was seventeen in Italy, to which country a near
relative was Ambassador, and there I went to my first ball. That night--and how often afterwards!--I
knew the surging exultation, the intoxication of the joy of life. How often in social life,
in brilliant scenes of light and laughter, music and love, I seemed to ride on the crest of
a wave, in the marvellous glamour of youth!

This love of the world and of social life was a very strong feeling for many years: at the
same time and running, as it were, in double harness with it was a necessity for solitude.
My mind imperatively demanded this, and indeed my heart too.

It was during this year that I first commenced a new form of mental pleasure through looking
at the beautiful in Nature. Not only solitude, but total silence was necessary for this pastime,
and, if possible, beauty and a distant view: failing a view I could accomplish it by means
of the beauties of the sky. This form of mental pleasure was the exact opposite of my previous
dreamings, for all imagination absolutely ceased, all forms, all pictures, all activities disappeared--the
very scene at which I looked had to vanish before I could know the pleasure of this occupation
in which, in some mysterious manner, I inhaled the very essence of the Beautiful.

At first I was only able to remain in this condition for a few moments at a time, but that
satisfied me--or, rather, did not satisfy me, for through it all ran a strange unaccountable
anguish--a pain of longing--which, like a high, fine, tremulous nerve, ran through the joy.
What induced me to pursue this habit, I never asked myself. That it was a form of the spirit's
struggle towards the Eternal--of the soul's great quest of God--never occurred to me. I was
worshipping the Beautiful without giving sufficient thought to Him from Whom all beauty proceeds.
Half a lifetime was to go by before I realised to what this habit was leading me--that it was
the first step towards the acquirement of that most exquisite of all blessings--the gift of
the Contemplation of God. Ah, if anyone knows in his heart the call of the Beautiful, let him
use it towards this glorious end! Love, and the Beautiful--these are the twin golden paths
that lead us all to God.

III

Certainly we were not a religious family. One attendance at church upon Sunday--if it did not
rain!--and occasionally the Communion, this was the extent of any outward religious feeling.
But my father's daily life and acts were full of Christianity. A man of a naturally somewhat
violent temper, he had so brought himself under control that towards everyone, high and low,
he had become all that was sweet and patient, sympathetic and gentle.

About this time a devouring curiosity for knowledge commenced to possess me. What was the truth--what
was the truth about every single thing I saw? Astronomy, Biology, Geology--in these things
I discovered a new and marvellous interest: here at last I found my natural bent. History had
small attraction for me: it spoke of the doings of people mostly vain or cruel, and untruthful.
I wanted truth--irrefutable facts! No scientific work seemed too difficult for me; but I never,
then or later, read anything upon the subject of religion, philosophy, or psychology. I had
a healthy, wholesome young intelligence with a voracious appetite: it would carry me a long
way, I thought. It did--it landed me in Atheism.

To a woman Atheism is intolerable pain: her very nature, loving, tender, sensitive, clinging,
demands belief in God. The high moral standard demanded of her is impossible of fulfilment
for mere reasons of race-welfare. The personal reason, the Personal God--these are essential
to high virtue. Young as I was, I realised this. Outwardly I was frivolous; inwardly I was
no butterfly, the deep things of my nature were by no means unknown to me. I not only became
profoundly unrestful at heart but I was fearful for myself, and of where strong forces of which
I felt the pull might lead me. I had great power over the emotions of men: moreover, interests
and instincts within me corresponded to this dangerous capacity. I felt that the world held
many strange fires: some holy and beautiful; some far otherwise.

Without God I knew myself incapable of overcoming the evil of the world, or even of my own
petty nature and entanglements. I despaired, for I perceived that God does not reveal Himself
because of an imperious demand of the human mind, and I had yet to learn that those mysteries
which are under lock and key to the intelligence are open to the heart and soul. But indeed
there was no God to reveal Himself. All was a fantastic make-believe! a pitiful childish invention
and illusion!

My intelligence said, "Resign yourself to what is, after all, the truth: console yourself with
the world and material achievements." The heart said, "Resignation is impossible, for there
is no consolation to the heart without God." I listened to my heart rather than my intelligence,
and for two terrible years I fought for faith. I was always reserved, and never admitted anyone
into the deep things of my life--but when I was twenty my father perceived that I was going
through some inward crisis. He knew the books that I read, and probably guessed what had happened
to me. At any rate he called me into his room one day and asked me, out of love and obedience
to himself, to give up reading all science. This was an overwhelming blow to me: yet I loved
him dearly, and had never disobeyed him in my life. Again I let my heart speak; and I sacrificed
my mind and my books.

I threw myself now more than ever into social amusements, and in my solitary hours sought consolation
in my "dream-life." I was afraid to turn to the love of Nature--to my beautiful pastime,--for
the pain in it was unbearable.

Towards the end of two years my struggles for faith commenced to find a reward. Little by little
a faint hope crept into my mind--fragile, often imperceptible. A questioning remark made by
my younger brother helped me: "If human life is entirely material and a part of Nature only,
then what becomes of human thoughts and aspirations?" Science had proved to me that nothing
is lost--but has a destiny--in that it evolves into another form or condition of activity.
Evolution! with its many seeming contradictions to Religion--might it not be merely a strong
light, too strong as yet for my weak mind, blinding me into temporary darkness? What raised
Man above the beasts but his thoughts and aspirations; and if even a grain of dust were imperishable,
were these thoughts and aspirations of Man alone to end in nothing--to be lost! It was but
a reasonable inference to say No. These invisible thoughts and aspirations have also a future--a
destiny in a, to us, still invisible world--in the Life of the Spirit. To this my mind was
able to agree. It was a step. In the realm of Ideal Thought I might find again my Faith. I
had indeed been foolish to suppose that a system which provided for the continuation of a grain
of sand should overlook the Spirit of Man. This was presupposing the existence of a spirit
in Man; but who could be found to truly and reasonably hold that the mysterious high and soaring
thoughts of Man were one and the same thing as mere animalism? they were too obviously of another
nature to the merely bovine, to the solids of the flesh: for one thing, they were free of the
law of gravity which so entirely overrules the rest of Nature--they must therefore come to
their destiny in another world, another condition of consciousness.

IV

That winter we again spent in Italy, in continuous gaiety amongst a brilliant cosmopolitan
world of men and women who for the most part lived in palaces, surrounded with art and luxury.
Here in Rome on every side was to be found the Cult of the Beautiful. Wonderful temples, gems
of classical sculpture, masterpieces of colour in oil and fresco--the genius and the aspirations
of men rendered permanent for us by Art; but the Temples, those silent emblems of man's worship
of an Unknown God, with their surroundings of lovely nature, affected me far the most deeply:
indeed, I do not pretend that sculptures and pictures affected me at all. I was interested,
I greatly admired--they were a part of education, but that was all. But in the vicinity of
those Temples what strange echoes awoke in me, what mysterious sadness and longing, what a
mystery of pain! Something within me sighed and moaned for God. If I could but find Him--if
I could even truly Believe and be at peace! But already I had commenced to Believe.

During the late winter we went to one of the great ceremonies at the Vatican: we had seats
in the Sistine Chapel. It was an especial occasion, and the number of persons present was beyond
all seating accommodation. To make way for someone of importance I was asked to give up my
seat and go outside into the body of the great Cathedral; here I was hurriedly pushed into
the second row of a huge concourse of waiting and standing people. Already in the distance
the Pope was approaching. Lifted high in his chair on the shoulders of his bearers, he came
slowly along in his white robes, his hand raised in a general blessing upon all this multitude.
As he came nearer I saw the delicate ivory face--the great dark eyes shining with a fire I
had never seen before. For the first time in my life I saw holiness. I was moved to the depths
of my being. Something in my gaze arrested his attention; he had his chair stopped immediately
above me, and, leaning over me, he blessed me individually--a very great concession during
a large public ceremony. I ought to have gone down on my knees--but I had no knees! I no longer
had a body! There was no longer anything anywhere in the world but Holiness--and my enraptured
soul.

Holiness, then, was far beyond the Beautiful. I had not known this till I saw it before me.

