"No! by Tyr, thrall is he no longer! Stand forward, Ulf. Choose thou; wilt go back to the Forest?
If so, I will send thee with a guard of honour. Wilt stay in my household? Then thou art as
my son, and in days to come a longship will I give thee to command."

Then Ulf the Silent, with a sidelong look at Edith Fairhair, said, "I thank thee, Jarl; at
the vik I choose to stay." And great was the laughter and applause.

But when the strangers had sailed away, Jarl Sigurd brought out that shirt of mail and tried
it on, but found it all too small for him, and said,

"Thou crafty one! Tell me, didst make this small that thou mayst the younger hope to wear it?"

Then Ulf broke silence, and told the wondering Jarl the story of the Star, as far as he knew
it, and how, as a family matter, it appeared to be better that Ulf alone should own the mail;
to which the Jarl shudderingly agreed, for, brave though he was, he feared witchcraft. Then
Ulf set the mail on a post and bade Thorolf the Strong send a spear through it if he could.

Scornfully the giant hurled a javelin at the mark, and gasped as it fell shivered like glass
at the foot of the post. On the armour, not a scar!

"It is dwarf-worked; elves did it!" he cried. And for a like reason many a sword and suit of
armour has been thought to be made by magic by men who did not know of nickel steel.

But not all of the Star was used in that suit of armour. Some of it Ulf kept for sword and
battle-axe. Some of it went to gentler uses, and some of it in the shape of harpstrings in
other days sang a song of liberty to a captive king. But no braver sight the vik ever saw than
the one when out through the black wolf's-mouth of massive cliffs one morning a swift longship
sped, with the early wind rounding the great sail and helping the rowers with their oars. A
line of shields hung along each side, helmeted heads gleamed here and there, and high in the
stern the rising sun made a form shine like a statue of silver flame as he waved farewell to
those on shore, who cheerily waved and shouted farewells back again. Jarl Sigurd was now too
old to take the seas; and Edith Fairhair--was still Edith Fairhair. Ulf the Silent had still
his fame to win. But she knew that he would win it.

SPARK VI.

HOW FRAGMENTS OF THE STAR TRAVELLED TO A FAR COUNTRY.

Ulf still had a name to win; but what a glorious thing it was to stand there in the stern of
that swift craft and feel it quiver with life beneath him in response to the rhythmic stroke
of the oarsmen, as it surged through the heaving water. Brightly the sunlight leaped along
the sea. Snow-white was the foam that flashed upward underneath the curving prow, and now and
then jetted high enough to come hissing inboard on the wind when the fitful gusts shifted to
the rightabout. The men laughed, and carelessly shook the drops from their broad backs when
it splashed among them.

What a hardy set of men they were, those Northmen of old! They had no compass; they must steer
by the sun, or by the stars, guess at their rate of sailing and tell by that how many more
days distant was their destination. If the weather was fine, well. But if the sky clouded over,
and sun nor star was seen for a week or more, while the wind veered at its own will, the chances
were more than even that they would bring up on some coast where they had never been, with
water and food to get, and perhaps every headland bristling with hostile spears. All this they
knew, yet out to sea they went as happily as a fisherman seeks his nets. Trading, starving,
fighting, plundering,--it was all one to them. On the whole, they seemed to like fighting the
best of all, since that is what their sagas told most about.

But Ulf was not by birth a Northman. Yet a rover by nature was he, and chief of all things
that he most desired was to explore strange lands, and especially what lay beyond where the
sky dipped downward and seemed to meet the sea. Ships came from thence, now and then; ships
had gone thence, as he knew, and some had never come back, but perhaps were sailing still from
land to land, through the great unknown.

For weeks his ship sailed onward, over a lonely ocean. Now and then the misty fountain sprung
upward from the waves where a whale was "blowing," with gulls hovering in the air above his
glistening black back. There were more gulls then than now, and more whales also, and often
the men would finger their lances wistfully and look with inquiring eyes at their youthful
captain. At another time they would not have looked in vain; indeed, in after days Ulf became
somewhat famous even among the men of the fjords for the number of whales he brought in. But
now his soul was elsewhere. Even the problem of getting back did not trouble him in the least.

Yet it was one thing to start out a-voyaging, sure of bringing up somewhere if you only went
far enough. It is quite another thing to be equally sure of finding the way homeward over the
trackless sea, without a landmark from horizon to horizon to steer by for weeks and weeks.
What seems a sixth sense is given to some of us--the sense of "direction," which the passenger
pigeon has and which enables it to fly straight back to its nest, though set free hundreds
of miles from home. When of old a young man had that faculty, the chances were that he would
become a famous pilot; and sometimes he might be charged with witchcraft as a penalty for knowing
too much! Ulf, a son of the trackless Forest, had that sixth sense.

One morning the dawn-light revealed a black spot on the low horizon. A speck that grew larger,
with twinkling, fin-like flashes along each side, and in due time it proved to be a galley
like their own bearing down straight for them. Nobody stopped to ask any questions. That was
not sea-style then. But just as naturally as two men now in a lonely journey would shake hands
on meeting, these two captains slipped their arms through their shield-handles, sheered alongside
just beyond oar- tip, and exchanged cards in the shape of a couple of whistling javelins.

Up from their benches sprang the rowers. Twang! sung their war-bows the song of the cord, and
the air was full of hissing whispers of Death as their shafts hurtled past. Round and round
the two galleys circled in a strange dance, each steersman striving to bring his craft bows
on, so as to ram and crush the other, while they lurched in the cross-seas, and rolled till
they dipped in tons of water over the rail.

Up sprang the stranger on his prow; tall and broad-shouldered was he, with a torrent of ruddy
hair floating in the wind. As Ulf turned to give an order to bale out the inrushing water,
up rose a brawny arm, and a great spear flashed down from the high bow of the enemy and struck
fairly between his shoulders. So sharp was the blow, so sudden, that Ulf pitched forward on
one knee for just half a breath. But the spear fell clanging to the deck. The ruddy warrior
stood looking at it with eyes of amazement. His own spear, that never before had failed! A
flash of light leaped back like a lightning stroke; back to its master whistled the brand,
for, ere he rose, Ulf snatched it up and as he rose he hurled it--straight through the unguarded
arm of the stranger.

"Hold!"

The shout rang sternly across the water and echoed back and forth from sail to sail. The shouting
hushed. Only the creak of the swaying yard, the hoarse swash of the water, the panting of deep
breathing broke the silence, then once more from the lofty prow came the commanding voice.

"Who and whence art thou?"

"A son of the Forest am I," answered the other. "Ulf is my name, Ulf the Silent my title, Jarl
Sigurd my father by adoption. The sea is my home; from over sea I came, and over sea am I going."

"What dwarfs made that armour?" demanded the other, holding a cloth to his wounded limb.

"Ten dwarfs welded it, ten dwarfs tempered it, and the same ten guard the wearer. Thou best
shouldst know what five of them can do," and Ulf smiled grimly as he held up his hand with
outspread fingers.

"Now it is thy turn. Who art thou?"

"Leif is my name," said the other, "and Eric the Red is my father. To the West have I been
sailing, searching for a land with lumber for ship-building. Now am I homebound. Come thou
with me and thou shalt be as my brother; for a good spearman art thou as ever sailed the seas;
and afterward we will sail together."

"I like it well," said Ulf, frankly, "and homeward will I go with thee"--for that was sea-politeness
then. So they set a new course by the stars that night and before Leif's arm had ceased to
tingle they saw the black walls of rock that guarded the entrance to his haven.

Many a night in after years Ulf lay awake and watched the stars, thinking the while of his
visit to Greenland and of all that came of it. A mighty man of his hands was Leif. In sheer
strength no two in both ships were his match in a close wrestle. None could strike a keener
blow. Yet was he hugely delighted when, one afternoon in friendly fray, Ulf again and again
slipped within his guard and with a lithe writhe of his slender form twined a bear's hug around
his bulky friend and dashed him earthward. And to give Ulf one spear's length advantage in
a hot scurry across country was never to come up with him again.

"Thou art the man of men I long have hunted for!" Leif cried. "Let your ship rest for a season;--or,
better, let your longest-headed seaman captain it for a voyage, trading, and come thou with
me. Far to the southward and westward lie rich timber lands. Where, we know not, yet storm-driven
ships have seen them. These I mean to find, and for such a distant quest one ship is better
than two."

So sunnily looked down the great man at the slighter one, so joyous at the thought of that
voyage into the mists of the southern seas that Ulf--rover to the marrow--held out his hand
in silence, and the compact was made.

It did not take long to provision the craft, or to arrange other matters. Soon they were surging
once more across apparently boundless seas. Three times they came to lands unknown to them,
yet not the country of great trees talked of by old sailors around the winter fires. At last
it loomed up in reality above the horizon, covered with timber enough to build a great city,--more
than ever was seen close at hand by Northmen before. And right lustily swung the axes among
them for days and weeks, until even the keenest trader among them all was contented with his
share of wealth that was to come to him when once back in Greenland. There were not lacking
signs, either, that savage neighbours might be unpleasant neighbours, as more than one stone-
headed arrow had whistled past, heralded by the first war-whoop that ever was heard by ears
of white men.

So, like a careful captain, Leif got his dried fish, his smoked deer- meat, his water casks,
and his lumber by degrees all on board; he lit the watch fires as usual at sundown; but by
moonrise, with the early tide he and his men slipped quietly out of their stockaded camp and
into their vessel, and silently drifted out to sea before the warm land-wind that still was
faintly blowing. And late that night a savage war party called at the camp with spear and torch,
to find it only an empty shell, to their huge disappointment.

Other captains, less wise, came after Leif in their timber-hunting, and not all came safely
home again. Perhaps the good fortune that still followed the guardian of the Iron Star had
something to do with Leif and Ulf's fair voyaging in this, the first time that a part of the
Star ever came to the shores of America. If so, then indeed its power must have lived long
after Ulf had said farewell and swept onward in his own ship toward Norway once again; for
by all his friends the tall captain was called "Leif the Lucky."

And even now, in the entrance to a beautiful park in a great city of that land where he went
timber-cutting a thousand years before that city--Boston--was ever heard of, there, high in
air, as though still standing on the prow of his ship, looms up a brave figure in bronze. A
closeknit, flexible shirt of mail guards his form. One hand rests upon his hip, holding his
curved war-horn. The other shades the eyes;--for, even in this statue of him, Leif Ericsson
is still the crosser of far seas, the finder of strange lands, the sleepless watcher forever
gazing from beneath his shadowed brows into the golden west.

Back at the fjord, what happened to Edith Fairhair while Ulf was on the ocean? Apparently nothing
worth recording. Yet something had happened, so silently, so stealthily that no one gave the
matter a thought. What was it? Why, Edith Fairhair had grown up!

She was now a tall maiden, straight as a poplar tree. Hers was now the hand to rule in her
sweet lady-mother's place when work bore heavily on the shoulders now weary with many years.
She it was who now directed the household thralls and saw that their tasks were well done.
Did they not understand their business? Then hers was the hand to show them how, be it spinning,
weaving, milking, washing, sweeping, dusting, or any other household art.

In the kitchen it seemed to the servants that all the pots and kettles were bewitched when
young Edith stood before them, for the water never refused to boil nor the wood to burn, nor
the roast to cook thoroughly and tender. And she had so deft a way of first thinking out what
new things would be likely to go well together, and then mixing things that no one ever thought
of mixing before, which yet turned into the most delightful dishfuls, that the sea-kings who
dined with Sigurd jestingly declared that but one thing prevented some one's making war on
him in hope of capturing Edith for himself, and that was the surety that if he won he then
would have to fight all the others!

But one morning the sun had just begun glinting past the pines, and had turned all the dewdrops
into dancing jewels, as Edith stepped to the door and flung it open to admit the fresh morning
air. As it swung she found herself face to face with a browned, bright-eyed young man, clad
in mail that rippled in the sunlight radiance.

"Ulf!"

"Edith!"

And down the slope were moving forms about a longship, rusty and weedy from long voyaging,
now drawn up high on the beach for a long rest. In the clear air their voices were blithe as
they shouted orders and tossed to earth the bales of costly furs, or handed down with more
respect some small yet valuable parcel, doubtless containing gems or gold; while over the waters
of the vik the gulls were wheeling, screaming, calling, as it seemed to Edith,

"Ulf! our Ulf is home again!"

Then the sun lifted itself clear of the shadowing pines and flooded the fjord with glory, and
in Edith's face he seemed to have flashed a colour of sunrise rose.

"For rest and new plans have I come," said Ulf, presently. "Seas have I crossed, and new lands
have I seen, and wealth have I won while trading; but a name is not won in ways like these."

To him, indeed, that name of honour still seemed as far beyond the horizon as ever it had been.
Yet, for some reason, Edith thought differently. So did Jarl Sigurd when, now seated on the
"high-seat" with other visiting captains, Ulf told of his search for timber lands and briefly
gave an idea of what he had brought home.

"Almost thou art man-grown, Ulf," he said, significantly. "Not quite, as yet. But almost. A
little more, perhaps another voyage--"

