Both "household" and "house-hold" were used in the original;
   unusually spelled words include: practitoners, peurile,
   unwaranted, brigther and recieved.

   The oe-ligature is represented by the letters oe enclosed in
   brackets ([oe]).

ALLOPATHY AND HOMOEOPATHY

Before the Judgment of Common Sense!

by

F. HILLER, M.D.

San Francisco: Bruce's Job Printing House, 535 Sacramento Street, 1872

    It is difficult to carry the Torch-Light of Truth through the
    masses, without stepping occasionally upon a toe or burning a
    wig or a head-dress.

  To

    WILLIAM SHARON, Esq.,
    ISAAC L. REQUA, Esq.,
    A. K. P. HARMON, Esq.,
    SAMUEL G. THELLER, Esq.

GENTLEMEN:

I have taken the liberty to dedicate this offering to you, as a token of respect and esteem.
This, together with a grateful remembrance of the courtesies extended to me, and the support
which I have derived from your friendship, will be, I hope, a sufficient excuse for the liberty
I have taken.

          Very truly, yours, etc.

              F. HILLER, M.D.

          San Francisco, 1872.

  TO THE

  MEMORY

  OF

  SAMUEL HAHNEMANN

  THE DISCOVERER OF

  THE TRUE LAW OF CURE

  Born April 10th, 1775;--Died June 4th, 1843.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

It is a remarkable and at the same time a terrible and most lamentable fact, that the practice
of medicine--an art of daily necessity and application, most nearly affecting the dearest interests
and well being of mankind, and to the improvement of which we are encouraged and impelled by
the strongest motives of interest and humanity, of love for our neighbor and emulous zeal for
professional skill and superiority therein--should, after a probation of so long a period,
and recorded experience of at least two thousand years, still remain, as it confessedly does
in most respects, so little understood and generally of such doubtful and uncertain application.

The present age, unlike any that has preceded it, is peculiarly one of rigid, radical and fundamental
examination. Everything in the Heavens above, or in the Earth beneath, is tested and retested;
analyzed, synthetized and submitted to the crucible of stern reason, and the logical conclusion
of experience; even to the extreme of possibility. This is true not only of the material universe,
but of all mental and moral conditions, of social, political and even religious institutions.
Nothing, in this day, and especially in this country of free thought and liberty of speech,
is taken for granted merely because it can lay claim to the honors of a great antiquity, or
can number thousands or millions of adherents. Vast differences are to be observed in governments,
churches, creeds and social practices; and all, however opposite and apparently antagonistic,
are working out a solution to the problem--

  "WHAT IS TRUTH?"

Conservatism is fast dying out, hidden and smothered by the ever-flowing tidal-waves of progression.
Radicalism ceases to become radical, by the daily and hourly recurrence of startling discoveries,
and new, unheard-of, and unexpected adaptations of old laws. The mistakes of to-day will be
found to be mistakes, and will be rectified. Whenever and wherever freedom holds her sway,
evil must work out its own destruction, and good enthrone itself in the hearts of those benefitted
by its benign influence. In this spirit, and with such views, let us look at the progress of
Medical Science that we may learn from the experience of the past to correctly estimate the
developments of the present and aid wisely in the working for a more glorious future.

Medicine has been--not inaptly styled--"The daughter of dreams." From the time of Hippocrates
until now, the great body of the profession has been swayed by conflicting theories, founded
upon either the wholly unsupported fancies and conjectures of their authors, or unwarrantably
built upon isolated facts, often accidental in their occurence, partial in their observation,
and improperly understood in their inherent nature and theoretical significance, pointing to
a law of action widely different from the one in support of which they had been adduced. All
branches of medicine have been involved in these crude absurdities; nor has the nomenclature
of any department of science, even in our day, been entirely purged from the errors and misleadings
with which the past so fruitfully abounds.

To mark the improvement and advancement in the various branches of medical science; to compare
the present with the past; to observe the unfolding growth, maturity, and decay of medical
creeds; to discern the power of those master-minds, that, far beyond the ages in which they
lived fore-shadowed the forth-coming discoveries that were to make other men immortal; to sigh
over the incredulity of whole races, whose blind and dogmatical adherence to the theories of
some prominent physiologist or anatomist--was at once silenced by the light of a new truth,
suddenly and clearly promulgated by a single mind. To do all these things, was the labor of
a whole life; volumes could be written in such investigation, and still thousands of facts
be left untouched and forgotten, forever buried in the chaos of medical creeds, medical truths
and medical fictions.

Old Physic has for several centuries past drifted in the wrong direction, striking occasionally
upon a rock, but finds itself to day further off from shore than ever before.

Medicine, the oldest and most important of all branches of science, has not kept up with developments
in other departments, but the rays of light have already deeply penetrated into the darkness
of the past, fast undermining the building of the so-called "Rational Medicine" with all its
hypothesis and traditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was near the end of the last century, that the idea occurred to a single man, that the reason
he had failed in practice must be that the medical profession was entirely on the wrong path.
He made the effort to cure diseases on the principle directly opposite to those on which he
had been educated to act, and he was successful. He thought a reformation of medicine needful
and desirable, and proper to be attempted. He set about it, hoping, if he should succeed in
pointing out a more safe, certain and pleasant road to the life-giving and life-renewing fountain
of health, that it would be a blessing to suffering humanity. That man was

  SAMUEL HAHNEMANN.

Had the reform inaugurated by him been of an insignificant character, it might have been accepted
by the medical world without controversy. Had the new path into which he invited the profession
been only a little smoother than the old one and lying right alongside of it, like that which
led the pilgrims from the main high-way into the domains of the giant, physicians might have
been easily lured into it. But the revolution was a radical one. It contemplated a counter-march
such as the teachers and practitoners of the healing art had never been called upon to make.
It called upon the chiefs of the profession to reverse the wheels of the ponderous engine,
and seek for the long-sought shore in the opposite direction.

The new doctrine came forth embodied in only three simple words: "Similia Similibus Curantur."

Thus the year 1790 gave birth to the celebrated system of Hahnemann, which has received from
him a Greek title, expressive of its peculiarities--Hom[oe]opathy, and in opposition to "Contraria
Contraries Curantur."--Allopathy.

It is not my purpose to entertain you with a detailed history of medicine, nor even to notice
the successive and conflicting theories that have arisen from time to time; but simply to show
that the old, or Allopathic system of medicine as practiced till this day is unworthy of our
confidence; that its theory of therapeutics is irrational and worthless; that there is an absence
of any reliable principle to guide the physicians in the treatment of diseases; and that the
sick are far better off when left to nature, than when subject to the pernicious system of
dosing, while a growing want of confidence in this system, both in the public mind and the
medical profession, loudly calls for something more rational in its theory and more successful
in its practice.

I shall not ask you to accept my individual opinions in support of these views, but shall place
upon the witness-stand, and give you the declarations of men who have spent their lives in
the practice of this system--most of them authors and teachers, men living in different countries,
and from the highest ranks of the profession, and who, if any, should be able to pronounce
a eulogy upon this system of practice.

I introduce to you first BOERHAVE, a man justly illustrious in the history of medicine, he
lived a century before HAHNEMANN, and was for over forty years Professor at the University
at Leiden.

Hear him! He says:

    "If we compare the good which a half dozen true disciples
    of Æsculapius have done since their art began, with the
    evil which the immense number of doctors have inflicted
    upon mankind, we must be satisfied that it would have been
    infinitely better for mankind if medical men had never
    existed."

The celebrated BICHAT of Paris, thus speaks of the therapeutic system of his day:

    "It is an incoherent assemblage of incoherent opinions; it
    is perhaps, of all the physiological sciences that which best
    shows the caprice of the human mind. What do I say?--It is not
    a science for a methodical mind; it is a shapeless assemblage
    of inexact ideas, of observations often peurile, of deceptive
    remedies and of formula as fastidiously and fantastically
    conceived, as they are tediously arranged."

Then we find the equally celebrated French physician, MAJENDIE, saying:

    "I hesitate not to declare, no matter how sorely I shall
    wound our vanity, that so gross is our ignorance of the
    physiological disorders called diseases, that it would perhaps
    be better to do nothing, and resign the complaint we are
    called upon to treat to the resources of Nature, than to act
    as we frequently do, without knowing the why and the wherefore
    of our conduct, and at the obvious risk of hastening the end
    of our patient."

SIR ASTLEY COOPER, England's greatest surgeon says:

    "The science of medicine is founded on conjecture and improved
    by murder."

But, it may be said, these men lived in the past, and since their time the science of medicine
has improved and its practice has become more rational and safe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us then come down to a later period, and listen to DR. CHRISTISON, the present eminent
Professor of Materia Medica at the University of Edinburgh. He says:

    "Of all medical sciences, therapeutics is the most
    unsatisfactory in its present state, and the least advanced
    in progress, and surrounded by the most deceitful sources of
    fallacy."

SIR JOHN FORBES, Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians: Physician to the Queen's Household,
late editor of the "British and Foreign Medical Review," after a frank admission of the imperfections
of Allopathic medicine, says:

    "FIRST.

    "SECOND. That in a lesser, but still not a small proportion,
    the disease is cured in spite of them; in other words, their
    interference opposing instead of assisting the cure."

    "THIRD. That, consequently in a considerable proportion of
    diseases, it would be as well, or better with patients, in
    the actual condition of the medical art, as more generally
    practiced, if all remedies, at least active remedies
    especially drugs were abandoned." And finally adds, "Things
    have arrived at such a pitch that they cannot be worse. They
    must mend or end."

But, I may be asked, what are the views of the Professors and writers in our own country. Have
they no more confidence in the healing art than their brethren in the old world? Let us see:

DR. RUSH, one of the lights of the profession in his day, remarks:

    "The healing art is an unroofed temple, uncovered at the top
    and cracked at the foundation."

And again:

    "Our want of success results from the following causes:
    FIRST.--Ignorance of the law governing disease. SECOND.--Our
    ignorance of a suitable remedy THIRD.--Want of efficacy in the
    remedy; and finally we have assisted in multiplying disease;
    nay, we have done more: we have increased their mortality."

Professor CHAPMAN, who stood at the head of the profession in Philadelphia, in an address to
the medical society, after speaking of the pernicious effects of calomel, adds:

    "Gentlemen, it is a disgraceful reproach to the profession
    of medicine; it is quackery, horrid unwaranted murderous
    quackery.... But I will ask another question, who is it that
    can stop the career of mercury at will, after it has taken the
    reins into its own destructive and ungovernable hands? He,
    who for an ordinary cause resigns the fate of his patient to
    mercury is a vile enemy to the sick; and if he is tolerably
    popular, will, in one successful season, have paved the
    way for the business of life, for he has enough to do ever
    afterwards to stop the mercurial breach of the constitutions
    of his dilapidated patients."

And yet, this article of the Materia Medica in some of its various forms, is still more frequently
prescribed than any other by the allopathic physicians. A writer in the June number, 1868,
of the "London Chemist," having submitted to a careful examination one thousand prescriptions,
taken seriatim from the files of a druggist, states, among other curious facts, that mercury
takes the lead, and stands prominently at the head of the list. Mercury, the very name of which
strikes terror into the minds of nervous and timid patients, is still the foremost remedial
agent employed by the medical profession.

Professor DRAPER, in one of his introductory lectures, before the University College of New
York, makes the following statement:

    "Even those of us who have most carefully upheld our old
    professional theories, and have tried to keep in reverence the
    old opinions, and the old times, find that under the advance
    of the exact sciences our position is becoming untenable. The
    ground is slipping away from beneath our feet. We are on
    the brink of a great revolution. Go where you will, among
    intelligent physicians you will find a deep, though it may be
    an indistinct perception, that a great change is imminent."

The late Professor MUTTER of Philadelphia, in an introductory lecture a few years ago, says:

    "We have in truth, rested contented in ideal knowledge. We
    have received as perfect, theories as idle as day dreams.
    We have blindly accepted the follies of the past; and the
    foundation of our art must crumble to the earth unless we
    learn more discretion and better judgment in the selection of
    the material of which they are to be constructed."

I might continue these quotations indefinitely; but I will not weary you by citing more, and
surely, sufficient evidence has already been produced to sustain the allegation that the old
system of medicine is unworthy of our confidence; that, with no law upon which to base its
principles of treatment, its practice rests upon a chaotic mass of empirical experiences, groundless
theories, and ever-changing fancies; that those best acquainted with its principles, and the
results of its practice, have the least faith in its usefulness; and that the interests of
the suffering, imperiously demand a revolution in the method of treating disease, and call
for a system more in harmony with Nature, more reliable in its application, and more successful
in its results.

This degraded state of the medical practice was deeply felt by HAHNEMANN, and in 1778 he retired
from the practice of medicine in disgust at its uncertainties, after having acquired fame as
a scientific scholar and high standing in his profession, breaking away from the past and opening
a new field of glory to his activities, as well as a new era of progress in the medical art.

SAMUEL HAHNEMANN was a great man; the discoverer of the true law of cure, in accordance with
the principles and laws of Nature.

I need not tell you, that we maintain that this much-desired and long-looked-for law of cure,
which is to be a lamp to the feet of the physician, making plain his path, and giving him an
unfailing guide in the application of remedies to the removal of disease, not only exists,
but has been proclaimed to the world by the immortal Hahnemann in his well-known formula: Similia
Similibus Curantur! But who was Samuel Hahnemann? When I say that this great Reformer of Medicine
was a regularly educated physician of great learning and unusual general culture and literary
attainments, I speak but feeble praise compared with the language of Sir John Forbes, Hahnemann's
most learned critic, where he says:

    "No candid reader of his writings can hesitate for a moment
    to admit that he was a very extraordinary man; one, whose name
    will descend to posterity as the exclusive excogitator and
    founder of an original system of medicine, as ingenious as
    many that preceded it, and destined to be the remote, if
    not the immediate cause of more fundamental changes in the
    practice of the healing art, than have resulted from any
    promulgated since the days of GALEN himself."

And he adds:

    "He was undoubtedly a man of genius and a scholar, a man of
    indefatigable industry and of dauntless energy."

The great HALLER, says of him:

    "He is a doublehead of philosophy and wisdom."

And HUFELAND, the father of orthodox medicine, speaks of him as one of the most distinguished
physicians in Germany, while the late DR. MOTT of New York, after having visited HAHNEMANN
in Paris, speaks in the highest terms of his candor, learning and genius.

It has often been stated by close observers of the working of Divine Providence, that "The
darkest hour is just before day," and also, that "The Creator ever wisely and well provides
agents perfectly adapted to carry out His beneficient designs in the crisis of human affairs."
History, both sacred and profane, gives unwavering and very numerous evidences of the justice
and verity of these propositions. In matters theological as well as political this is equally
the case. When there could scarcely be greater gloom or greater danger, the wise Arbiter of
human destinies has educated, nerved, inspired and protected some master-spirit, who has caused
light to shine out of darkness, and peace and order to take the place of chaos and destruction.
Never were these propositions more fully illustrated than in medical matters towards the close
of the past century. All the arts and sciences had received the impetus of new discoveries.
The inductive method of investigation had brought out clearly to view first principles, on
which it was easy for succeeding generations to build solid, stable and beautiful temples of truth.

Astronomy, chemistry, botany and every branch in Natural Philosophy, instead of continuing
mere matters of speculative theory, as they were before, became sciences. The sons of Æsculapius
alone were enshrouded in an Egyptian darkness, wandering about without guide and compass, rushing
wildly to and fro with instruments of deadly power in their hands; whom they wished to heal,
they slew; and tortured those whom they fondly hoped might find timely relief from sufferings
and woes through their ministrations.

The hearts of the benevolent were deeply pained, and the conscientious wavered in their work
when they gathered statistics of the results of their labor. A cry ascended heaven-wards from
the practitioners of medicine, the longing for better days, seemed seconded by a phalanx of
ghostly beings, who had untimely passed away by means of fearful treatment, and by the living
miseries of multitudes of shapeless deformed ones, who ever stood unpleasant and incontrovertible
witnesses of the cruelties and barbarities of the healing art.

With increasing civilization, new and fatal epidemics appeared, reaping a rich harvest for
the grim monster--Death--and adding yearly to the per-centage of the ever-increasing bills
of mortality. Many an honest practitioner threw away lancet and saddle-bags in despair, while
quacks and medical charlatans, profiting by the wranglings of the regulars, and the weariness
of the people, drove a reckless but well-paying trade, with nostrums of every character, from
the deadliest poison to the simplest house-hold herb.

BUT A BRIGTHER DAY WAS ABOUT TO DAWN.

In the picturesque town of Meissen, in the district of Cur Saxony, lived an honest and worthy
man, Christian Gottfried Hahnemann, an intelligent, patriotic and highly esteemed, though unassuming
and unambitious member of that community, by trade a painter upon porcelain, known under the
name of Dresden-China.

On the 10th day of April, 1755, he was made happy by the birth of a son, whom he named Samuel
Christian Frederick. From over they went they on s Field of the five or six miles for the drills.
As i have told you, Mulligan'element Field was a countryside. They tell me that this takeaway are
utilize approximately and merely, are the Camp. "for merely four of five years after War, we had somewhere
long opposition to.

We had yield everything we could to a worker. After the'Hawthorn surrender'home come to flood and
rinse everything over, and the fruitage were off lay that August. As you know, that was in'65. The
rains and same water is destroyed everything. I do not believe that low Stream and the Tyger
have ever been as sentiment or since." on Earth that they saved the livestock at all. They too
did manage to prevention. They had the time acquire this slaves to
mainland.

Mrs. Sallie Henderson, her tread-son, and her son, Jim, and daughter, lyde were in firm when the
spate come out in which them. They had to travel out on house but adopt the water go up just.
"Mr. Ben Hancock was a day." for this remainder of the year, river kin
had home so to eat itself until food fruitage were produced the spring.

Henderson in yonder small line of opathy Broad River of where little
Enoree of the hard.

So, Mister. Hancock was the time. He know up the Hendersons, there he try to go to them but it
failed between the first three times. The case, he got to dwelling. When they got so, he establish
own aryan and twenty-five slaves with them. "a flour had caught in stairway that had rinse
down stream from so above itself. The was pulled excessively and that is what Mrs. Henderson
is feed her treatment and slaves on days for about five days, or until they were deliver by
Mister. Hancock.

Capt. Jack blow his late device oe the two hours between dark to the mainland and ignore that
they were away temporary. Here that you cognize, Henderson Enoree ever downstairs where it
empties into the whole." my a father was hit down time of Manassas. Home he got the lick over
his same eye that was there of slug; but he said that he thought the lick come from spot of the
shrapnel.

They carried him arouse to make-exchange hospital that had been improvised
behind that breastworks.

The soldier who was recovering from lesion and harbor him arouse oe best he could. "a father
was injure was in Kingston, Nitrogen. Effect. he shot that tree and he saw this opposition from
him as he fell. Little adopt about case he saw every tree leveling the weapon at him. Father threw
up his gun but however young, the shot and tore his arm asserts to part. Some arm and struck the
mouth knocking about part.

So it travel under vein and about it come down on back knocking gov intolerant pocket in one of
shoulder opathy blades said effect to the big your two finger in they. His gun float was now
cut into it. He lay on battleground profession; really he was transport to house where a statement
begum acting as the woman cared for him arouse itself for thither four months. He was send above
and disregard from service mile below a Maybinton, Element.

C. in Newberry County. Father was ferryman to do the statement of hom activity of however two years.
A bw shut the year after he got there. From time for mother." we had travel to Mr. Ben leading
days in Maybinton saw before my see was sent so injure. Father dwell until March, 1st, 1932
when he decease at eld of 102. When he died we were living at one of a Jeter near Opathy's Opposition,
in township, one-half knot from maybin ninety-six Road. Father is bury ever at Kelley. "Title.
Harvey has any bullet that a. Scott publish to a negroes during reconstruction times when he was
governor of Carolina saw under rule.

Scott publish that bullets to the negroes to kill and plunder with. Mr.
Harvey state that bullets like the one were a finding their graves in
underside. Mister. Harvey, well it is fair, is just a Ku. They were
the instruments in acquire him adopt into Home of Union in 1925."
the boat twenty-five feet to carry a black down river. They would
universally take the negroes'the guns, that the opposition of them
had two weapon, and tie oe the guns around their necks in manner:
a gun was tied with wire, and a float of a gun was fastened with wire
around the s.



He was at first somewhat puzzled by that troublesome subject, "the ways and means," but fortunately
becoming acquainted with two rich Princes of Greece, who were anxious to be instructed in the
English and French languages. Hahnemann entered into a lucrative engagement with them as instructor,
and also obtained employment as a translator of medical and philosophical works. The remuneration
he received for private teaching and translating, not only enabled him to supply all his moderate
wants and purchase of books, but he saved a considerable amount besides. In order to save so
much, and at the same time attend faithfully upon all his classes, he denied himself sleep
every other night. In 1777, we find him attending the hospitals of Vienna where his excellence
of character, and extent of medical information, completely won him the friendship and confidence
of the celebrated Doctor von Quarin, who perceiving the noble qualities and promising abilities
of the young man, adopted him as a special protégé. Hahnemann says of him, "To him I owe my
claims to be reckoned as a physician. I had his love and friendship." After this, he visited
the University of Erlangen, where he graduated, receiving the degree of Doctor of Medicine
on the 10th of August, 1779. At this time, an earnest longing for the air of Saxony and the
scenery of his native district seems to have taken possession of him. After having occupied
several prominent positions, the government offered him the office of District Physician in
Gommern, which he accepted in 1782.

After three years residence in Gommern, during which time he had married, he became tired of
professional idleness--as he expresses himself--and we find him removing to Dresden. For about
a year he occupied the position as superintendent of the public hospitals of that city. His
conscience however, began to be much troubled by the conviction that medicine as then practiced
proved worse than useless to the majority of patients. He retired from the practice of medicine
in disgust at its uncertainties, occupying himself solely with chemistry and literary labor.

       *       *       *       *       *

The humanity and integrity of Hahnemann is plainly portrayed in a letter to the venerable Hufeland,
where he gives his own account of the reasons which induced him at this time to retire from
practice. He writes:

    "It was painful for me to grope in the dark, guided only by
    our books in the treatment of the sick--to prescribe according
    to this or that fanciful view of the nature of diseases,
    substances that only owed to mere opinion their place in the
    Materia Medica. I had conscientious scruples about treating
    unknown morbid states in my suffering fellow-creatures with
    these unknown medicines; which, being powerful substances,
    might, if they were not exactly suitable, (and how could the
    physician know whether they were suitable or not, seeing that
    their peculiar special actions were not yet elucidated?),
    easily change life into death, or produce new affections
    or chronic ailments, which are often much more difficult to
    remove than the original disease. To become in this way a
    murderer, or an aggravator of the sufferings of mankind, was
    to me a fearful thought. So fearful and distressing was it,
    that shortly after my marriage I abandoned the practice, and
    scarcely treated any one for fear of doing him harm."

In 1789, he settled in Leipzig, and numerous writings and translations, which have been often
quoted by the best writers ever since, came from his pen during that period. We come now to
the year 1790, in which the first thought of Hom[oe]opathy issued from the brain of the great
father and founder of the new school of medicine. It has already been hinted that Hahnemann
had felt an intense desire to obtain some clear, safe and philosophical guide to the therapeutic
action of drugs.

He was called upon to translate "Cullen's Materia Medica," and as he progressed in the description
of one medical substance after another, he could not but feel a renewal of the earnest longing
he had so often cherished, to clear medical science from the clouds of mist and uncertainty
in which it had continued from the time of Hippocrates.

       *       *       *       *       *

The workings of his mind, and the character of the man, at this time will be best understood
by a quotation from the letter he wrote to Hufeland, where he says:

    "Having briefly reviewed, the sad experience of the systems
    of Sydenham and Hoffmann, of Boerhave and Glaubius, of Stahl,
    Cullen and de Hean," he continues,

    "But it is, perhaps, the very nature of this art, as great men
    have asserted that it is incapable of attaining any greater
    certainty. Shameful, blasphemous thought! What! shall it be
    said that the infinite wisdom of the Eternal Spirit, that
    animates the universe, could not produce remedies to allay the
    sufferings of the diseases He allows to arise? The all-loving
    paternal goodness of Him, whom no name worthily designates,
    who richly supplies all wants, even the scarcely conceivable
    wants of the insect in the dust, imperceptible by reason of
    its minuteness to the keenest human eye, and who despenses
    throughout creation, life and happiness in rich abundance,
    shall it be said that He is capable of the tyranny of not
    permitting that man, made in his image, should by the efforts
    of his penetrating mind, that has been breathed into him from
    above, find out the way to discover remedies in the stupendous
    kingdom of creation, which should be able to deliver mankind
    from their sufferings, worse than death itself? Shall He, the
    Father of all, behold with indifference the martyrdom of
    his best-beloved creatures by disease, and yet render it
    impossible to the genius of man, to whom all else is possible,
    to find any method, any easy, sure, trust-worthy method,
    whereby they may see diseases from their proper point of view,
    and whereby they may interrogate medicines as to their special
    uses, as to what they are really, surely and positively
    serviceable for? Well, thought I, as there must be a sure and
    trust-worthy method of treatment, as certainly as God is the
    wisest and most beneficient of Beings, I shall seek it no
    longer in the thorny thicket of ontological explanations,...
    nor in the authoritative declarations of celebrated men. No;
    let me seek it where it lies nearest at hand, and where it
    has hitherto been passed over by all, because it did not seem
    sufficiently recondite, nor sufficiently learned, and was
    not hung with laurels for those who displayed most talent
    for constructing systems, for scholastic speculation, and
    transcendental abstractions."

With these high and noble feelings, his mind was fully awake to any suggestion that might be
derived from the material before him.

For forty years he carried on a series of well-planned and well-calculated experiments to ascertain
the disease-producing power of drugs, when administered to persons in health. Friends, medical
and lay, were brought into requisition, and all possible means taken to secure the greatest
accuracy; for Hahnemann already began to feel that he was God's agent of mercy, through whose
happy discovery and labors future generations would be greatly blessed.

He found but little opportunity to test his newly-discovered law of cure while he remained
in Leipzig, and poverty compelled him to labor with his pen most indefatigably, as was evidenced
by the large number of essays and translations published at that time.

Providence, however, interfered in his behalf; the reigning Duke of Saxe Gotha offered him
the position of Physician to the Asylum for the Insane in Georgenthal, in the Thuringen Forest.
He entered upon his duties in 1792. While at the head of this establishment, he succeeded in
affecting a cure which created some sensation, because the party concerned was the Hanoverian
Minister, Klockenbring, who was rendered insane by a lampoon written by Kotzebue. He also introduced
a mild and humane treatment for the insane, removing the chains and tight-jacket, heretofore
in use.

In 1810, he published his greatest work, "The Organon," which ran through five editions, and
was translated into most all the living languages. From 1810 to 1821, we find him again in
Leipzig, publishing his Materia Medica, and lecturing twice a week in the University, at the
same time attending to a multitude of patients.

In 1821, Hahnemann was induced by the reigning Duke of Anhalt-Coethen, who was his warm friend
and admirer, to change his place of residence, and appointed him his Physician. He accepted
the position. He soon began to work as earnestly as before in proving medicines and prescribing
for his patients, who came from all parts of Europe.

On one occasion, during his residence in Coethen, he recieved a visitor who had heard a great
deal of Hahnemann and his garden, and who had imagined the garden to be as large as its owner
was great. When he was ushered into the presence of the Prophet of Medicine and found him seated
at a table in a summer-house, only a few yards from the dwelling, he exclaimed: "But where
is the garden?" To which Hahnemann replied, "This is the garden." "Surely," rejoined the visitor,
"Not this narrow patch of ground?" "True, it is very narrow and very short, but observe its
infinite height," said the Sage, pointing upwards to the blue sky overhead.

The tenth of August, 1829, was a joyful day for the venerable old man, being the fifteenth
anniversary of his obtaining the degree of M. D. Gratifying and memorable in more than one
respect was this day for him.

I refrain from giving you a full description of this impressive celebration, lest I should
be considered tedious, yet I cannot thus pass over historical facts, without dwelling upon
a few of the principal features of this gratifying and memorable festivity.

The early morning found assembled a large number of the friends of Hahnemann, his disciples;
deputations from various cities; also deputations from the Universities of Leipzig, Vienna
and Erlangen, which presented him with the Diploma of Honor. The King of Saxony, the Duke of
Saxe Gotha and many others had sent costly presents from far and near. His dwelling having
been appropriately prepared for the celebration, and on a table, resembling an altar, adorned
with flowers and entwined with oak leaves, was placed a well executed bust of Hahnemann.

After Hahnemann was introduced, his bust was crowned with laurels, amid appropriate addresses
and congratulations. With deep emotion, the venerable old man in heartfelt and affecting words,
gave thanks to the Supreme Being that he had been permitted to make so great a discovery, and
was so favored with a long life, full of bodily and mental vigor.

A year after this important occurrence, the Asiatic Cholera came marching from the East, for
the first time. This aroused the medical profession in general. Physicians were helpless, and
none of them had ever seen a case of this fearful disease. But Hahnemann, after learning the
symptoms of the disease, advised the mode of treatment by which the mortality of that terrible
scourge was threefold reduced, and numerous testimonials were published, showing the immense
success of his mode of treatment. In 1831, he lost his partner in life, having been married
forty-nine years and a few months.

About four years after the death of his wife, a most interesting, intelligent and estimable
lady, applied to Hahnemann for advice for lung and heart disease. It has been humorously stated
that though the lung disease was effectually cured, the trouble of the heart must have assumed
a chronic form, for the fascinating Parisienne seemed deeply enamored with the great doctor.
She was 35 years of age, the daughter of Louis Jerome Cohier, formerly Minister of Justice
and President and Director of the French Republic, her name was Marie Melanie d'Herville Cohier.
This lady of position and wealth offered her hand to the octogenarian, which he accepted, and
after having divided his considerable fortune among his children, upon which his young wife
insisted, he was induced by her to pass the rest of his life in Paris, where he enjoyed a great
reputation till his death, which took place July 2nd, 1843. On the centenary of his birthday
in 1855, a statute was erected to his memory at Leipzig.

       *       *       *       *       *

To complete the picture of this great man, I have to cite from a letter written by Dr. Jahr
in Paris on the fourth of July 1843, where he says:

    "Hahnemann is dead! In fact, dear friends, our venerable
    father had finished his career. A pulmonary paralysis had set
    him free, after an illness of six weeks, finally liberating
    the great soul from its earthly tenement. To the last moment,
    he was in the possession of his mental faculties.... In the
    commencement of that illness he announced that it would be
    his last, as his body was worn out. At first he prescribed for
    himself, and nearly to the period of his death delivered
    his opinion of the remedies offered him by his wife and
    Dr. Chartran.... When his wife, on account of a fit of
    suffocation, said to him, 'Providence ought to exempt you from
    these sufferings, as you have relieved so many, and endured
    such numerous persecutions,' he replied, 'Me: why me?
    Every one works according to the abilities and powers which
    Providence has bestowed upon him. Superiority or inferiority
    exists only before the tribunal of men, not before that of
    Providence. Providence owes nothing to me, but I am indebted
    to Providence for all.'"

I leave these memorable words, for every one to deduce from them the natural conclusion, and
especially as truly illustrative of the character of Hahnemann. The grand old man, at 80 years
of age, launched himself upon a new career in the capital of France. In three years we find
him making an income of 200,000 francs a year from his professional exertions, and giving gratuitous
advice to crowds of the poor.

Year after year his wonderful successes brought him a rapid increase to even this large income.
In his 89th year he died and left a fortune of 4,000,000 francs, nearly a million of dollars.

Seldom has a man ended his days in so glorious a sunset, or in a surer hope for the future.

The merit of Hahnemann, and that for which we ought to bless his name and cherish his memory,
is his rejection of theory and the establishment of the curative art upon the solid foundation
of science. All that was merely speculative he rejected as unsafe, and sought by pure experiment
and objective observation, to find out Nature's law of cure. Taking nothing for truth that
could not be proved by experiment, he, by careful and untiring observation, obtained from Nature
the answer that Similia Similibus Curantur was the law of cure, the only scientific law to
heal disease.

This science is not wafted to and fro by the winds of opinion and supposition. It is through
its organic unity, as firm and unchanging as Nature itself. In it all medical men must agree,
because the reign of supposition has been replaced by that of facts, and all animated by the
spirit of progress will work actively and earnestly in promoting science and the art of healing
for their own benefit, and that of suffering humanity in general. To get such a science recognized
and spread over the world, is undoubtedly a noble problem of the age. Hahnemann also discovered
by experiment and pure objective observation, that disease renders the organization wonderfully
sensitive to their specific remedies, so that the mere smell of the specific drug can, in many
cases effect a cure; and that in all cases, a very small dose of the true remedy is all that
is required; so small as to have no effect whatever on the organism in a state of health; and
further, that large doses, even of the proper remedy, are not only useless, but hurtful, being
calculated to aggravate the disease and endanger vitality.

Time will not permit me to attempt here an elucidation of the principles and doctrines promulgated
by Hahnemann; yet I wish to notice briefly some of the results following the introduction of
Hom[oe]opathy into the medical world. It is now about seventy-five years since Hahnemann made
public, and taught this new system of medicine. The bold reformer and his disciples were persecuted,
ridiculed and scorned in every manner by the so-called orthodox doctors, who declared their
principles so ridiculous and nonsensical, that it would be below the dignity of a scientific
man to make himself acquainted with the laws and practice of Hom[oe]opathy. But Hom[oe]opathy
in the theoretical and practical proofs of its universal importance, deserves to be ranked
among the most important discoveries of the age, and as one of the most beneficial discoveries
that humanity has ever been blessed with.

Men of the highest standing in the profession have given their unqualified indorsement of its
foundation as an indisputable law of Nature, and of its right to be considered high in the
order of science.

The truth of its principles has been practically proven by its success, not only in isolated
cases, but in great epidemics, as those of dysentery, cholera, yellow fever, typhus, smallpox,
scarlet fever, measles, diptheria, etc.; and this, too, in so conspicuous a manner, that year
after year, it has forced its way into larger and higher circles, and is now practiced in all
countries by a large number of scientific and intelligent physicians, who, after having studied
and practiced for a longer or shorter length of time the murderous system of Allopathy, are
acquainted with both, and have given the preference to Hom[oe]opathy, only after mature reflection,
investigation and numerous comparisons of the result of both systems in their practice.

The great majority of Old-School physicians, only know Hom[oe]opathy by hearsay, and look upon
it through the dim glasses of the prejudices of the past. None of those who have abused Hom[oe]opathy
have previously examined and studied the matter thoroughly, because all those who have conscientiously
done this, have soon been converted to the truth of the system and have adopted its practice.

In the ranks of the practitioners and believers in Hom[oe]opathy, we see physicians whose writings
prove, and to whom nobody can deny an extended and profound medical knowledge, as well as judgment.
Hom[oe]opathy can boast of a rich and scientific literature, and a great number of profound
writings in all the languages of the civilized world.

Hom[oe]opathy is a vast and steadily growing power in the medical and scientific world, demanding
earnestly the attention of every intelligent man. Its real merit may be partially measured
by the strength of obstacles it has had to overcome.

Hom[oe]opathy is a reform in the central and main field of medical practice, a reform effected
by the discovery of a great and true therapeutic law, and by the construction of a new Materia
Medica, which reveals to us the disease-producing properties of drugs. It has rendered pathology
the highest service by making that great branch of medical science truly practical; for, an
exact parallel functional and organic law between the phenomena of diseases and drugs is necessary
to the scientific selection of hom[oe]opathic medicines. By its great therapeutic law, it has
introduced new light, order, beauty and efficiency into the theory and practice of medicine.
It has cured thousands of cases of chronic disease, beyond the reach of allopathic art, and
has treated all acute diseases with admirable ease and success. In great epidemics, it proved
always superior to the old system. I was converted by experiencing the wonderful effects of
hom[oe]opathic medicine on myself, but particularly by witnessing the triumphs of Hom[oe]opathy
in the treatment of the Asiatic cholera, in the terrible epidemic of 1849-'50 and '51.

  Allopathic mortality was            56 per c.
  Hom[oe]opathic mortality was        12 per c.

In yellow fever, its success was equally surprising. Drs. Davis and Holcombe treated over a
thousand cases at Natchez in 1853 and '55, with a mortality of 7 per cent. Allopathy lost two-thirds
of its patients. On account of this great victory, they were elected physicians and surgeons
of the Mississippi State Hospital, which was till then under allopathic government. The reports
from that Institution are triumphs to Hom[oe]opathy up to the present day, and confirmatory
of the superiority of this system of medical treatment.

Hom[oe]opathy has saved thousands of cases from surgical operations, and has introduced safety
into the lying-in-room of woman. It has been a blessing to children, and to mothers incalculably
beneficial. It has been found equally useful in the diseases of animals, and many veterinary
institutions have been established for its practice.

Finally, it has shortened the average duration of disease, diminished the expense of treatment
enormously, economized the vital resources of the patient, and delivered its friends from the
frequently baneful and long-lasting effects of enormous doses of medicine.

In conclusion, I will give a few statistics, from different and reliable authorities; but first,
the testimony of Dr. Routh, an eminent Allopathic physician of London, given under circumstances
which make it significant and interesting.

In 1852, Dr. Routh published in London a book which he entitled the "Fallacies of Hom[oe]opathy,"
which he says he was constrained to do, because

    "This system of medical practice has of late unfortunately
    made, and continues to make, such progress in this country,
    and the metropolis in particular, and is daily extending its
    influence even among the most learned, and those whose high
    positions in society gives them no little moral power over the
    opinions of the multitude, that our profession is, I think,
    bound to make it the subject of inquiry and investigation."

To that end, he collected statistics of different hospitals, to the number of thirty-two thousand
six hundred and fifty cases, treated in hom[oe]opathic hospitals, and compared them with an
equal number of cases from old-school hospitals. He was astonished to find that the average
mortality under allopathic treatment was 10.5 per c.; while under hom[oe]opathic treatment
it was only 4.4 per c. Still he was honest enough to publish the results. He further states
that, proportionally to the number of beds, in hom[oe]opathic hospitals there are twice as
many patients admitted and cured, as in allopathic hospitals.

He also states that the mean duration of treatment in pneumonia was

  Hom[oe]opathic,      11-2/3 days.
  Allopathic,          29 days.

After visiting Vienna, Dr. Routh gives the following statistics of cases of inflammation of
the lungs, treated respectively in the Hom[oe]opathic and Allopathic Hospitals of that city.

  Allopathic mortality           23 per c.
  Hom[oe]opathic mortality        5 per c.

Here, then, is allopathic testimony, the most conclusive; that, in this fatal disease, the
old system involves a mortality of 23 per c., while that of Hom[oe]opathy is only 5 per c.--just
about one-fifth!

I have in my possession, and could adduce here, numerous equally valuable statistics, but as
I have already trespassed upon your time, I will sum up the whole in a carefully prepared table
of several life insurance companies which have investigated the influence of medical treatment
as affecting human life, and from which they feel authorized in offering an annual reduction
of 15 per c. to practical hom[oe]opathists. We find the "Atlantic Mutual" making the following
deductions:

    First. "That practical Hom[oe]opathists enjoy more robust
    health."

    Second. "That they are less frequently attacked by disease."

    Third. "When attacked, they recover more rapidly than those
    treated by any other system."

    Fourth. "That the mortality in the more fatal forms
    of disease is small compared with that under Allopathic
    treatment." 

    I am de now one livin'. De last one to die was my freemason,
    Stocklin, that tended to de flowers and gardens of people in Winnsboro
for a dotage.

He was found long, one mornin', in de Fortune Park woods.

"my parents bel'alive to Policeman Tom Lyles, in slavery time. Father was delaware hog man. He'tended
to delaware lamb; many't pasture them only they do equally.

  Marster had didn drove of eighty or more in de fall of
   delaware annum befo'lamb killin'time. They run'bout in de woods for
acorns and pignut nuts and my father had to lose up wid them and bring
them home.  Cholera,                               as 16 to 49
   "  Typhus fever,                          as  8 to 33
   "  Yellow fever,                          as  5 to 43
   "  Pneumonia,                             as  5 to 31

The general average of all diseases being as 8 to 34, while the average length of sickness
under the two systems, is as 2 to 3, a clear gain of over fifty per c. is shown in favor of
Hom[oe]opathy.

The inquiry will here naturally arise:--Why is it that, if the Hom[oe]opathic system presents
such superior results, that it has not been adopted by the profession generally? While its
adherents may with pride refer to its rapid growth in this country, its practitioners having
increased from 6 in 1830 to over 6,000 in 1871; yet, if the system is all that its adherents
claim, why should it still meet with the most bitter opposition of the old school, instead
of that hearty acceptance which its merits would seem to demand?

Before answering this question, let us see how the medical profession, and professors of other
branches of science have received the several great discoveries of the last four hundred years.

Copernicus, who taught that the sun is stationary; that the planets revolve around the sun,
and that the apparent revolution of the heavens is caused by the rotation of the earth on its
axis,--a system now generally received and acknowledged, was persecuted nearly to death. I
found, only twenty years ago, a sect of people in Wisconsin, who still disbelieved this great
fact, that the earth moves around the sun.

Gallileo, after being converted to the Copernican theory of the revolution of the earth around
the sun, and after having improved the telescope of Copernicus, invited his fellow-professors
to make these observations with him. They absolutely refused to even look through Gallileo's
telescope, and after he had demonstrated to them by actual experiment, that the trifling difference
in the falling of two unequal weights is owing only to the resistance of the air, and after
making the experiment twice before the eyes of his opposers in dropping two unequal weights
from the tower of Pisa, they did not believe it. He also was persecuted through life.

Franklin's electric experiments were received in like manner. After they had been read before
the Royal Society, they were considered worthless, and he earned nothing but ridicule and abuse.

So it was with Fulton, when he was moving upon the Hudson River with his imperfect steamcraft
before the eyes of the people; they said it was impossible, and could not be done. Yes, they
denied the fact, and declared him insane after he had done it.

Harvey, who discovered and taught that there is an arterial circulation of blood through the
human system, was persecuted through life, his professional enemies styling him the "Circulator,"
a word, in its original Latin, synifying vagabond or quack.

In the light of these facts, it was not surprising that Hahnemann, after the promulgation of
his doctrine, meets the same fate, and from that day to the present, the most bitter denunciations
have been poured by the Old School, not only upon him, but on all who have adopted, or have
investigated his method.

But Time ever rectifies the mistakes of mankind. The value of the discoveries of all these
great men has long since been acknowledged by the world; and the day will and must surely arrive,
when the little acorn of Truth, planted by Hahnemann, which has already taken deep root, and
is lifting high its vigorous stem, shall tower far above all other giants of the medical forest,
and its wide-spreading branches cast their beneficent shadows over the whole earth.

  F. HILLER, M. D.

  SAN FRANCISCO, April 10th, 1872.

"HOM[oe]OPATHY AND REGULAR MEDICINE."

The editor of the Buffalo Medical and Surgical Journal (old school) had a sudden spasm of good
sense--a condition none too frequent with our Allopathic brethren, and during the attack, allowed
the following communication to appear in the pages of his journal. 

That he took my fist, put in four Miss Ada's fist, and Say:'Dis present,
observations'.'I make a curtsy and Miss Enzyme'mho eyes flash like
a expert and had she take me compared in her room and took of powerful
over me.

    
    
    "We lived in a two-room wid mud and it had a wood and mud
    for de gable end of one antechamber. A floor was hewed
    logs put side by side close together. America had all we necessitate
    to eat."

De soap was made in a hopper for de slaves.
How dat you to ask?

    That the accumulated experience of faithful observers, who,
    for the last four thousand years have given their lives to
    the study and treatment of diseases, is, we believe, of almost
    invaluable importance to one who wishes to become a physician,
    and certainly is of infinite importance when compared with
    a hypothetical dogma, and yet, with all the machinery of
    our hospitals and dispensaries, the control of every medical
    appointment in the gift of governments or corporations, with
    our medical schools perfectly equipped with professors for
    every separate department of medicine, and an entire monopoly
    of the advantages of clinical observations, with all these
    advantages and precedents, what headway have we made in
    convincing the public and individuals of our superior ability
    to manage disease, or of our peculiar fitness for becoming the
    sanitary officers of households or communities? 

    Flurry in land carefully. Get down... Grain there day! December
    Cook Broil the. Kale. Fix. Give the eiderdown in we head. I
    sleep. I sleep over the cotton. I wholly down tater cotton in
    roost. "(tunnel up on a cotton--'rooted'it down)" Cook. Season case.
    It is to arouse in the public mind that generous American
    sentiment which ever asserts itself to see fair play between
    a big boy and a little one. There is scarcely an instance
    in which the regular profession, with all its accumulated
    prestige, has arrayed itself against hom[oe]opathy, where the
    weaker party have not prevailed. And to-day, in the sight of
    the law, and in the confidence of the people, hom[oe]opathy is
    the peer of regular medicine.

    It becomes us to go over this case, and, if possible, discover
    why, we so strong in numbers, and in all the facilities and
    appliances for illustrating and inforcing our tenets, are so
    repeatedly beaten? Why is it that individuals and corporations
    are becoming convinced that their interests require them to
    employ hom[oe]opathic in preference to regular physicians? For
    myself, in spite of the logic of events, I still believe,
    and my belief is founded upon a thorough investigation of
    the principles of hom[oe]opathy, and observations upon the
    practice of many of its most distinguished disciples, that
    in no way can a man so efficiently equip himself for the
    responsibility of the management of disease, and the custody
    of health as in the study of regular medicine.

    If we take it for granted that the past experience and
    observations of physicians are of service to physicians at
    present, and I do not think we will be charged with assumption
    for considering this an axiom; then why is it that a sect
    which disregards all traditions of medicine, and found their
    system upon a dogma which contradicts all that we have held as
    truth, why is it that they are flourishing and we are going to
    the wall?

    The answer to this question presents itself to my mind under
    two heads, which may be formularized as follows: Hom[oe]opathy
    lives upon the disgrace brought upon the profession of
    medicine by the low standard of medical education, and
    flourishes upon the intolerant opposition it has received at
    the hands of regular physicians. 

    I did give my age. "Albert Calina?
    

    He a christian-young people. Hearted-wisdom school. I been a great
    christian woman when he had born. My birthday get over i want
    to go in Heaven."
    
    i gone to see Doctor Wardie when i to my 95.

He say: "'big Dow!

    The position of the regular profession in regard to
    hom[oe]opathy may be expressed in a few words. We are not
    aware of their existence. They have no professional rights
    which we are bound to respect, and when forced by some
    laymen to speak upon the subject, or give an opinion upon
    hom[oe]opathy, the opinion is that it is a "humbug." This line
    of treatment was bad enough when hom[oe]opathy was young, but
    now when we stand on equal footing before the law, and nearly
    equal before the public, it is suicidal.

    It may be well to explain what I mean by equal rights
    before the law. All the rights which members of the regular
    profession of this State enjoy are granted them by Acts of
    Legislature, the first of which was passed April 10th, 1813,
    this and the Act of 1827, contain the "Regulations concerning
    the Practice of Physic and Surgery in this State." They
    provide for the establishment of County Medical Societies,
    "the only organization existing under law for the purpose of
    diffusing true science and knowledge of the healing art," and
    otherwise point out and fix the duties, responsibilities and
    immunities of physicians and surgeons.

    On April 13th, 1857, the Legislature of this State admitted
    the hom[oe]opathic profession to all the rights and privileges
    enjoyed by members of the regular profession under the above
    mentioned Acts. This provided for the present, and in the
    Acts incorporating their colleges, exactly the same power is
    granted to them as had been granted to our medical schools,
    which provides for the future. I doubt not there are members
    of our profession who have hitherto failed to realize the
    change wrought in the hom[oe]opathic profession by the Acts
    of 1857. As before stated, the Act admitted the hom[oe]opathic
    profession to all the rights and privileges as physicians
    and surgeons under the Acts of 1813 and 1827, and all Acts
    amendatory thereof, thus they became "legally authorized
    practicing physicians and surgeons," and as such, are entitled
    to membership of our County Medical Societies. This right
    is positive, and no County Society has the power to adopt
    a by-law which will keep them out if they should make
    application for admission. The right of legally authorizing
    physicians to membership of County Medical Societies has been
    most definitely settled by our courts, and the proceedings to
    obtain such rights are well understood by many of our members.

    In view of these facts what should the regular profession
    do in the matter? Shall we continue to call ourselves "the
    profession," and neither by public act or private word allow
    that there is any other? Dr. George Metal. Opathy, my maestro, run a blockade.
    He had vessel roamin'the sea to capture pirates ships. He had
    a daughter, Ellen, who was ever family to the bondman. Maestro
    had a driver, William Jenkins, an'an'a'ramrod, Henry Chestnut.
    Both was black.
    Invite them to the rights in our County Medical Societies,
    when called by their patrons, attend with them in
    consultation; when wished by our patients ask them to attend
    in consultation with us? If they have any superior knowledge
    in the management of the disease or the protection of health,
    our duty to our patrons requires us to avail ourselves of that
    knowledge. If we possess the greater professional ability,
    they and their patrons will find it out. If we hold back
    from this, we may reasonably be charged with having little
    confidence in our doctrines. If we go into it, I rest my faith
    upon "the survival of the fittest."

  Buffalo, August, 1871.
  H. R. HOPKINS, M. D.

