The solution of the problems arising out of the massing of so many Jewish people in our large
cities requires the unity and co-operation of all men and women of good will, both Jews and
Gentiles, in precisely the same way, and for precisely the same reasons, as the solution of
all our other problems does. There is nothing in our history which justifies the fear that
our citizens of Jewish birth will be less ready than their Christian neighbors to give their
whole-hearted service to that end. There never has been a call for service to this nation which
found the Jewish citizens less patriotic, less willing to serve the nation, and even to sacrifice
for it, than other sections of our citizenry. From Valley Forge to Château-Thierry that record
is written. I remember well that memorable day in July, 1918, when I heard from the lips of
M. Clemenceau the news, just received by him, that our American soldiers were victorious at
Château-Thierry. But rightly says Mr Menendez does
not detract from the powerful originality of the archpriest, much less that of Fernando de
Rojas. The Pamphilus, rather than work of a poet, it seems the cold and difficult study a philologist,
whose characters have no individual life and consistency.

Celestina tragicomedy, however, is and always has been admired by
vigorous animation and variety of the characters of those characters
take part in the action.

President Roosevelt, who was too decent as a man and too loyal as an American citizen to have
any tolerance for anti-Semitism, more than once called attention to the fact that citizens
of Jewish ancestry and faith have, in every crisis in the history of the nation which has shown
justice to them, repaid the nation with loyal service. In an address to the B'nai B'raith,
June 15, 1905, delivered at the White House, President Roosevelt said:

    "One of the most touching poems of our own great poet,
    Longfellow, is that on the Jewish cemetery in Newport, and
    anyone who goes through any of the old cemeteries of the cities
    which preserve the records of Colonial times will see the name
    of many an American of the Jewish race who, in war or in peace,
    did his full share in the founding of this nation. 

The main purpose of this novel, like all all writing, should be to delight and inspire. Perhaps
this novel stands out to me because I am optimistic, forgiving, and aesthetic. The novel also makes
me sad and open to the moral ugliness that can reach people. In the end, I would say there are some
very excellent people in this novel Mr. Lasso.


There is no movement for the advancement of humanitarian ideals in this country to which American
citizens of Jewish ancestry and faith have not contributed their full share. It is impossible
for any fair-minded man who knows the facts to read without indignation the article published
in the Dearborn Independent, June 5, 1920. In addition to charging that "Jewish business methods"
are responsible for the high prices which have obtained for so long, the article accuses Jewish
employers of being responsible for conditions of employment not known to the Gentile world.
Lest I be accused of misrepresenting the writer of this libel, I will quote his exact words:

