"A minister of the Gospel in this town is placed in a peculiar position, Sir Thomas," said
Mr. Pabsby very slowly, "and of all the ministers of religion in Percycross mine is the most
peculiar. In this matter I would wish to be guided wholly by duty, and if I could see my way
clearly I would at once declare it to you. But, Sir Thomas, I owe much to the convictions of
my people."

"Which way do you mean to vote?" asked Mr. Trigger.

Mr. Pabsby did not even turn his face at this interruption. "A private man, Sir Thomas, may
follow the dictates of--of--of his own heart, perhaps." Here he paused, expecting to be encouraged
by some words. But Sir Thomas had acquired professionally a knowledge that to such a speaker
as Mr. Pabsby any rejoinder or argument was like winding up a clock. It is better to allow
such clocks to run down. "With me, I have to consider every possible point. What will my people
wish? Some of them are eager in the cause of reform, Sir Thomas; and some others--"

"We shall lose the train," said Mr. Trigger, jumping up and putting on his hat.

"I'm afraid we shall," said Sir Thomas rising, but not putting on his.

"Half a minute," said Mr. Pabsby pleading, but not rising from his chair. "Perhaps you will
do me the honour of calling on me when you are again here in Percycross. I shall have the greatest
pleasure in discussing a few matters with you, Sir Thomas; and then, if I can give you my poor
help, it will give me and Mrs. Pabsby the most sincere pleasure." Mrs. Pabsby had now entered
the room, and was introduced; but Trigger would not sit down again, nor take off his hat. He
boldly marshalled the way to the door, while Sir Thomas followed, subject as he came to the
eloquence of Mr. Pabsby. "If I can only see my way clearly, Sir Thomas," were the last words
which Mr. Pabsby spoke.

"He'll give one to Griffenbottom, certainly," said Mr. Trigger. "Westmacott 'll probably have
the other. I thought perhaps your title might have gone down with him, but it didn't seem to take."

All this was anything but promising, anything but comfortable; and yet before he went to bed
that night Sir Thomas had undertaken to stand. In such circumstances it is very hard for a
man to refuse. He feels that a certain amount of trouble has been taken on his behalf, that
retreat will be cowardly, and that the journey for nothing will be personally disagreeable
to his own feelings. And then, too, there was that renewed ambition in his breast,--an ambition
which six months ago he would have declared to be at rest for ever,--but which prompted him,
now as strongly as ever, to go forward and do something. It is so easy to go and see;--so hard
to retreat when one has seen. He had not found Percycross to be especially congenial to him.
He had felt himself to be out of his element there,--among people with whom he had no sympathies;
and he felt also that he had been unfitted for this kind of thing by the life which he had
led for the last few years. Still he undertook to stand.

"Who is coming forward on the other side?" he asked Mr. Trigger late at night, when this matter
had been decided in regard to himself.

"Westmacott, of course," said Trigger, "and I'm told that the real Rads of the place have got
hold of a fellow named Moggs."

"Moggs!" ejaculated Sir Thomas.

"Yes;--Moggs. The Young Men's Reform Association is bringing him forward. He's a Trades' Union
man, and a Reform Leaguer, and all that kind of thing. I shouldn't be surprised if he got in.
They say he's got money."

CHAPTER XXI.

THE LIBERALS OF PERCYCROSS.

Yes;--Ontario Moggs was appalled, delighted, exalted, and nearly frightened out of his wits
by an invitation, conveyed to him by certain eager spirits of the town, to come down and stand
on the real radical interest for the borough of Percycross. The thing was not suggested to
him till a day or two after Sir Thomas had been sounded, and he was then informed that not
an hour was to be lost. The communication was made in the little back parlour of the Cheshire
Cheese, and Moggs was expected to give an answer then and there. He stood with his hand on
his brow for five minutes, and then asked that special question which should always come first
on such occasions. Would it cost any money? Well;--yes. The eager spirits of Percycross thought
that it would cost something. They were forced to admit that Percycross was not one of those
well-arranged boroughs in which the expenses of an election are all defrayed by the public
spirit of the citizens. It soon became clear that the deputation had waited upon Moggs, not
only because Moggs was a good Radical, but because also Moggs was supposed to be a Radical
with a command of money. Ontario frowned and expressed an opinion that all elections should
be made absolutely free to the candidates. "And everybody ought to go to 'eaven, Mr. Moggs,"
said the leading member of the deputation, "but everybody don't, 'cause things ain't as they
ought to be." There was no answer to be made to this. Ontario could only strike his forehead
and think. It was clear to him that he could not give an affirmative answer that night, and
he therefore, with some difficulty, arranged an adjournment of the meeting till the following
afternoon at 2 P.M. "We must go down by the 4.45 express to-morrow," said the leading member
of the deputation, who even by that arrangement would subject himself to the loss of two days'
wages,--for he was a foreman in the establishment of Mr. Spicer the mustard-maker,--and whose
allowance for expenses would not admit of his sleeping away from home a second night. Ontario
departed, promising to be ready with his answer by 2 P.M. on the following day.

How bright with jewels was the crown now held before his eyes, and yet how unapproachable,
how far beyond his grasp! To be a member of Parliament, to speak in that august assembly instead
of wasting his eloquence on the beery souls of those who frequented the Cheshire Cheese, to
be somebody in the land at his early age,--something so infinitely superior to a maker of boots!
A member of Parliament was by law an esquire, and therefore a gentleman. Ralph Newton was not
a member of Parliament;--not half so great a fellow as a member of Parliament. Surely if he
were to go to Polly Neefit as a member of Parliament Polly would reject him no longer! And
to what might it not lead? He had visions before his eyes of very beautiful moments in his
future life, in which, standing, as it were, on some well-chosen rostrum in that great House,
he would make the burning thoughts of his mind, the soaring aspirations of his heart, audible
to all the people. How had Cobden begun his career,--and Bright? Had it not been in this way?
Why should not he be as great,--greater than either;--greater, because in these coming days
a man of the people would be able to wield a power more extensive than the people had earned
for themselves in former days? And then, as he walked alone through the streets, he took to
making speeches,--some such speeches as he would make when he stood up in his place in the
House of Commons as the member for Percycross. The honourable member for Percycross! There
was something ravishing in the sound. Would not that sound be pleasant to the ears of Polly Neefit?

But then, was not the thing as distant as it was glorious? How could he be member for Percycross,
seeing that in all matters he was subject to his father? His father hated the very name of
the Cheshire Cheese, and was, in every turn and feeling of his life, diametrically opposed
to his son's sentiments. He would, nevertheless, go to his father and demand assistance. If
on such an occasion as this his father should give him a stone when he asked for bread, he
and his father must be two! "If, when such a prospect as this is held out to his son, he cannot
see it," said Ontario, "then he can see nothing!" But yet he was sure that his father wouldn't
see it.

To his extreme astonishment Mr. Moggs senior did see it. It was some time before Mr. Moggs
senior clearly understood the proposition which was made to him, but when he did he became
alive to the honour,--and perhaps profit,--of having a member of his firm in Parliament. Of
politics in the abstract Mr. Moggs senior knew very little. Nor, indeed, did he care much.
In matters referring to trade he was a Conservative, because he was a master. He liked to be
able to manage his people, and to pay 5s. 3d. instead of 5s. 8d. for the making of a pair of
boots. He hated the Cheshire Cheese because his son went there, and because his son entertained
strange and injurious ideas which were propagated at that low place. But if the Cheshire Cheese
would send his son to Parliament, Mr. Moggs did not know but what the Cheshire Cheese might
be very well. At any rate, he undertook to pay the bills, if Ontario, his son, were brought
forward as a candidate for the borough. He lost his head so completely in the glory of the
thing, that it never occurred to him to ask what might be the probable amount of the expenditure.
"There ain't no father in all London as 'd do more for his son than I would, if only I see'd
there was something in it," said Moggs senior, with a tear in his eye. Moggs junior was profuse
in gratitude, profuse in obedience, profuse in love. Oh, heavens, what a golden crown was there
now within his grasp!

All this occurred between the father and son early in the morning at Shepherd's Bush, whither
the son had gone out to the father after a night of feverish longing and ambition. They went
into town together, on the top of the omnibus, and Ontario felt that he was being carried heavenwards.
What a heaven had he before him, even in that fortnight's canvass which it would be his glory
to undertake! What truths he would tell to the people, how he would lead them with him by political
revelations that should be almost divine, how he would extract from them bursts of rapturous
applause! To explain to them that labour is the salt of the earth;--that would be his mission.
And then, how sweet to teach them the value, the inestimable value, of the political privilege
lately accorded to them,--or, as Ontario would put it, lately wrested on their behalf from
the hands of an aristocracy which was more timid even than it was selfish;--how sweet to explain
this, and then to instruct them, afterwards, that it was their duty now, having got this great
boon for themselves, to see at once that it should be extended to those below them. "Let the
first work of household suffrage be a demand for manhood suffrage." This had been enunciated
by Ontario Moggs with great effect at the Cheshire Cheese;--and now, as the result of such
enunciation, he was going down to Percycross to stand as a candidate for the borough! He was
almost drunk with delight as he sat upon the knife-board of the Shepherd's Bush omnibus, thinking
of it all.

He, too, went down to Percycross, making a preliminary journey,--as had done Sir Thomas Underwood,--timing
his arrival there a day or two after the departure of the lawyer. Alas, he, also, met much
to disappoint him even at that early period of the contest. The people whom he was taken to
see were not millionaires and tradesmen in a large way of business, but leading young men of
warm political temperaments. This man was president of a mechanics' institute, that secretary
to an amalgamation of unions for general improvement, and a third chairman of the Young Men's
Reform Association. They were delighted to see him, and were very civil; but he soon found
that they were much more anxious to teach him than they were to receive his political lessons.
When he began, as unfortunately he did very early in his dealings with them, to open out his
own views, he soon found that they had views also to open out. He was to represent them,--that
is to say, become the mouthpiece of their ideas. He had been selected because he was supposed
to have some command of money. Of course he would have to address the people in the Mechanics'
Hall; but the chairman of the Young Men's Reform Association was very anxious to tell him what
to say on that occasion. "I am accustomed to addressing people," said Ontario Moggs, with a
considerable accession of dignity.

He had the satisfaction of addressing the people, and the people received him kindly. But he
thought he observed that the applause was greater when the secretary of the Amalgamation-of-Improvement-Unions
spoke, and he was sure that the enthusiasm for the Young Men's chairman mounted much higher
than had done any ardour on his own behalf. And he was astonished to find that these young
men were just as fluent as himself. He did think, indeed, that they did not go quite so deep
into the matter as he did, that they had not thought out great questions so thoroughly, but
they had a way of saying things which,--which would have told even at the Cheshire Cheese.
The result of all this was, that at the end of three days,--though he was, no doubt, candidate
for the borough of Percycross, and in that capacity a great man in Percycross,--he did not
seem to himself to be so great as he had been when he made the journey down from London. There
was a certain feeling that he was a cat's-paw, brought there for certain objects which were
not his objects,--because they wanted money, and some one who would be fool enough to fight
a losing battle! He did not reap all that meed of personal admiration for his eloquence which
he expected.

And, then, during these three days there arose another question, the discussion of which embarrassed
him not a little. Mr. Westmacott was in the town, and there was a question whether he and Mr.
Westmacott were to join forces. It was understood that Mr. Westmacott and Mr. Westmacott's
leading friends objected to this; but the chairmen of the young men, and the presidents and
the secretaries on the Radical side put their heads together, and declared that if Mr. Westmacott
were proud they would run their horse alone;--they would vote for Moggs, and for Moggs only.
Or else,--as it was whispered,--they would come to terms with Griffenbottom, and see that Sir
Thomas was sent back to London. The chairmen, and the presidents, and the secretaries were
powerful enough to get the better of Mr. Westmacott, and large placards were printed setting
forward the joint names of Westmacott and Moggs. The two liberal candidates were to employ
the same agent, and were to canvass together. This was all very well,--was the very thing which
Moggs should have desired. But it was all arranged without any consultation with him, and he
felt that the objection which had been raised was personal to himself. Worse than all, when
he was brought face to face with Mr. Westmacott he had not a word to say for himself! He tried
it and failed. Mr. Westmacott had been a member of Parliament, and was a gentleman. Ontario,
for aught he himself knew, might have called upon Mr. Westmacott for the amount of Mr. Westmacott's
little bill. He caught himself calling Mr. Westmacott, sir, and almost wished that he could
bite out his own tongue. He felt that he was a nobody in the interview, and that the chairmen,
the secretaries, and the presidents were regretting their bargain, and saying among themselves
that they had done very badly in bringing down Ontario Moggs as a candidate for their borough.
There were moments before he left Percycross in which he was almost tempted to resign.

But he left the town the accepted candidate of his special friends, and was assured, with many
parting grasps of the hand on the platform, that he would certainly be brought in at the top
of the poll. Another little incident should be mentioned. He had been asked by the electioneering
agent for a small trifle of some hundred pounds towards the expenses, and this, by the generosity
of his father, he had been able to give. "We shall get along now like a house on fire," said
the agent, as he pocketed the cheque. Up to that moment there may have been doubts upon the
agent's mind.

As he went back to London he acknowledged to himself that he had failed hitherto,--he had failed
in making that impression at Percycross which would have been becoming to him as the future
member of Parliament for the borough; but he gallantly resolved that he would do better in
the future. He would speak in such a way that the men of Percycross should listen to him and
admire. He would make occasion for himself. He thought that he could do better than Mr. Westmacott,--put
more stuff in what he had got to say. And, whatever might happen to him, he would hold up his
head. Why should he not be as good a man as Westmacott? It was the man that was needed,--not
the outside trappings. Then he asked himself a question whether, as trappings themselves were
so trivial, a man was necessarily mean who dealt in trappings. He did not remember to have
heard of a bootmaker in Parliament. But there should be a bootmaker in Parliament soon;--and
thus he plucked up his courage.

On his journey down to Percycross he had thought that immediately on his return to London he
would go across to Hendon, and take advantage of his standing as a candidate for the borough;
but as he returned he resolved that he would wait till the election was over. He would go to
Polly with all his honours on his head.

CHAPTER XXII.

RALPH NEWTON'S DECISION.

Ontario Moggs was at Percycross when Ralph Newton was making his formal offer to Polly Neefit.
Ralph when he had made his offer returned to London with mixed feelings. He had certainly been
oppressed at times by the conviction that he must make the offer even though it went against
the grain with him to do so;--and at these moments he had not failed to remind himself that
he was about to make himself miserable for life because he had been weak enough to take pecuniary
assistance in the hour of his temporary necessities from the hands of Polly's father. Now he
had made his offer; it had not been accepted, and he was still free. He could see his way out
of that dilemma without dishonour. But then that dilemma became very much smaller to his sight
when it was surmounted,--as is the nature with all dilemmas; and the other dilemma, which would
have been remedied had Polly accepted him, again loomed very large. And as he looked back at
the matrimonial dilemma which he had escaped, and at Polly standing before him, comely, healthy,
and honest, such a pleasant armful, and so womanly withal,--so pleasant a girl if only she
was not to be judged and sentenced by others beside himself,--he almost thought that that dilemma
was one which he could have borne without complaint. But Polly's suggestion that they should
allow a year to run round in order that they might learn to know each other was one which he
could not entertain. He had but three days in which to give an answer to his uncle, and up
to this time two alternatives had been open to him,--the sale of his reversion and independence,
or Polly and the future lordship of Newton. He had thought that there was nothing but to choose.
It had not occurred to him that Polly would raise any objection. He had felt neither fear nor
hope in that direction. It followed as a consequence now that the lordship must go. He would
not, however, make up his mind that it should go till the last moment.

On the following morning he was thinking that he might as well go to the shop in Conduit Street,
feeling that he could encounter Neefit without any qualms of conscience, when Mr. Neefit came
to him. This was certainly a better arrangement. It was easier to talk of his own affairs sitting
at ease in his own arm-chair, than to carry on the discussion among the various sporting garments
which adorned Mr. Neefit's little back room, subject to interruption from customers, and possibly
within the hearing of Mr. Waddle and Herr Bawwah. Neefit, seated at the end of the sofa in
Ralph's comfortable room, looking out of his saucer eyes with all his energy, was in a certain
degree degrading,--but was not quite so degrading as Neefit at his own barn-door in Conduit
Street. "I was just coming to you," he said, as he made the breeches-maker welcome.

"Well;--yes; but I thought I'd catch you here, Captain. Them men of mine has such long ears!
That German who lets on that he don't understand only just a word or two of English, hears
everything through a twelve-inch brick wall. Polly told me as you'd been with her."

"I suppose so, Mr. Neefit."

"Oh, she ain't one as 'd keep anything from me. She's open and straightforward, anyways."

"So I found her."

"Now look here, Captain. I've just one word to say about her. Stick to her." Ralph was well
aware that he must explain the exact circumstances in which he stood to the man who was to
have been his father-in-law, but hardly knew how to begin his explanation. "She ain't nowise
again you," continued Mr. Neefit. "She owned as much when I put her through her facings. I
did put her through her facings pretty tightly. 'What is it that you want, Miss?' said I. 'D'
you want to have a husband, or d' you want to be an old maid?' They don't like that word old
maid;--not as used again themselves, don't any young woman."

"Polly will never be an old maid," said Ralph.

"She owned as she didn't want that. 'I suppose I'll have to take some of 'em some day,' she
said. Lord, how pretty she did look as she said it;--just laughing and crying, smiling and
pouting all at once. She ain't a bad 'un to look at, Captain?"

"Indeed she is not."

"Nor yet to go. Do you stick to her. Them's my words. 'D' you want to have that ugly bootmaker?'
said I. 'He ain't ugly,' said she. 'D' you want to have him, Miss?' said I. 'No, I don't,'
said she. 'Well!' said I. 'But I do know him,' said Polly, 'and I don't know Mr. Newton no
more than Adam!' Them were her very words, Captain. Do you stick to her, Captain. I'll tell
you what. Let's all go down to Margate together for a week." That was Mr. Neefit's plan of action.

Then Ralph got up from his easy-chair and began his explanation. He couldn't very well go down
to Margate, delightful as it would be to sit upon the sands with Polly. He was so situated
that he must at once decide as to the sale of his property at Newton. Mr. Neefit put his hands
in his pockets, and sat perfectly silent, listening to his young friend's explanation. If Polly
would have accepted him at once, Ralph went on to explain, everything would have been straight;
but, as she would not do so, he must take his uncle's offer. He had no other means of extricating
himself from his embarrassments. "Why, Mr. Neefit, I could not look you in the face unless
I were prepared to pay you your money," he said.

"Drat that," replied Neefit, and then again he listened.

Ralph went on. He could not go on long in his present condition. His bill for £500 to Mr. Horsball
of the Moonbeam was coming round. He literally had not £20 in his possession to carry on the
war. His uncle's offer would be withdrawn if it were not accepted the day after to-morrow.
Nobody else would give half so much. The thing must be done, and then;--why, then he would
have nothing to offer to Polly worthy of her acceptance. "Bother," said Mr. Neefit, who had
not once taken his eyes off Ralph's face. Ralph said that that might be all very well, but
such were the facts. "You ain't that soft that you're going to let 'em rob you of the estate?"
said the breeches-maker in a tone of horror. Ralph raised his hands and his eyebrows together.
Yes;--that was what he intended to do.

"There shan't be nothing of the kind," said the breeches-maker. "What! £7,000 a year, ain't
it? All in land, ain't it? And it must be your own, let 'em do what they will; mustn't it?"
He paused a moment, and Ralph nodded his head. "What you have to do is to get a wife,--and
a son before any of 'em can say Jack Robinson. Lord bless you! Just spit at 'em if they talks
of buying it. S'pose the old gent was to go off all along of apperplexy the next day, how'd
you feel then? Like cutting your throat;--wouldn't you, Captain?"

"But my uncle's life is very good."

"He ain't got no receipt against kingdom come, I dare say." Ralph was surprised by his tradesman's
eloquence and wit. "You have a chick of your own, and then you'll know as it'll be yours some
way or other. If I'd the chance I'd sooner beg, borrow, starve, or die, before I'd sell it;--let
alone working, Captain." There was satire too as well as eloquence in the breeches-maker. "No;--you
must run your chance, somehow."

"I don't see my way," said Ralph.

"You have got something, Captain;--something of your own?"

"Well;--just enough to pay my debts, if all were sold, and buy myself a rope to hang myself."

"I'll pay your debts, Captain."

"I couldn't hear of it, Mr. Neefit."

"As for not hearing of it,--that's bother. You do hear of it now. And how much more do you
want to keep you? You shall have what you want. You meant honest along of Polly yesterday,
and you mean honest now." Ralph winced, but he did not deny what Neefit said, nor aught that
was implied in the saying. "We'll bring you and Polly together, and I tell you she'll come
round." Ralph shook his head. "Anyways you shall have the money;--there now. We'll have a bit
of a paper, and if this marriage don't come off there'll be the money to come back, and five
per cent. when the old gent dies."

"But I might die first."

"We'll insure your life, Captain. Only we must be upon the square."

"Oh, yes," said Ralph.

"I'd rather a'most lose it all than think such a chance should be missed. £7,000 a year, and
all in land? When one knows how hard it is to get, to think of selling it!"

Ralph made no positive promise, but when Mr. Neefit left him, there was,--so at least thought
Mr. Neefit,--an implied understanding that "the Captain" would at once put an end to this transaction
between him and his uncle. And yet Ralph didn't feel quite certain. The breeches-maker had
been generous,--very generous, and very trusting; but he hated the man's generosity and confidence.
The breeches-maker had got such a hold of him that he seemed to have lost all power of thinking
and acting for himself. And then such a man as he was, with his staring round eyes, and heavy
face, and dirty hands, and ugly bald head! There is a baldness that is handsome and noble,
and a baldness that is peculiarly mean and despicable. Neefit's baldness was certainly of the
latter order. Now Moggs senior, who was grey and not bald, was not bad looking,--at a little
distance. His face when closely inspected was poor and greedy, but the general effect at a
passing glance was not contemptible. Moggs might have been a banker, or an officer in the Commissariat,
or a clerk in the Treasury. A son-in-law would have had hopes of Moggs. But nothing of the
kind was possible with Neefit. One would be forced to explain that he was a respectable tradesman
in Conduit Street in order that he might not be taken for a dealer in potatoes from Whitechapel.
He was hopeless. And yet he had taken upon himself the absolute management of all Ralph Newton's
affairs!

Ralph was very unhappy, and in his misery he went to Sir Thomas's chambers. This was about
four o'clock in the day, at which hour Sir Thomas was almost always in his rooms. But Stemm
with much difficulty succeeded in making him believe that the lawyer was not at home. Stemm
at this time was much disturbed by his master's terrible resolution to try the world again,
to stand for a seat in Parliament, and to put himself once more in the way of work and possible
promotion. Stemm had condemned the project,--but, nevertheless, took glory in it. What if his
master should become,--should become anything great and magnificent. Stemm had often groaned
in silence,--had groaned unconsciously, that his master should be nothing. He loved his master
thoroughly,--loving no one else in the whole world,--and sympathised with him acutely. Still
he had condemned the project. "There's so many of them, Sir Thomas, as is only wanting to put
their fingers into somebody's eyes." "No doubt, Stemm, no doubt," said Sir Thomas; "and as
well into mine as another's." "That's it, Sir Thomas." "But I'll just run down and see, Stemm."
And so it had been settled. Stemm, who had always hated Ralph Newton, and who now regarded
his master's time as more precious than ever, would hardly give any answer at all to Ralph's
enquiries. His master might be at home at Fulham,--probably was. Where should a gentleman so
likely be as at home,--that is, when he wasn't in chambers? "Anyways, he's not here," said
Stemm, bobbing his head, and holding the door ready to close it. Ralph was convinced, then
dined at his club, and afterwards went down to Fulham. He had heard nothing from Stemm, or
elsewhere, of the intended candidature.

Sir Thomas was not at Fulham, nor did the girls know aught of his whereabouts. But the great
story was soon told. Papa was going to stand for Percycross. "We are so glad," said Mary Bonner,
bursting out into enthusiasm. "We walk about the garden making speeches to the electors all
day. Oh dear, I do wish we could do something."

"Glad is no word," said Clarissa. "But if he loses it!"

"The very trying for it is good," said Patience. "It is just the proper thing for papa."

"I shall feel so proud when uncle is in Parliament again," said Mary Bonner. "A woman's pride
is always vicarious;--but still it is pride."

Ralph also was surprised,--so much surprised that for a few minutes his own affairs were turned
out of his head. He, too, had thought that Sir Thomas would never again do anything in the
world,--unless that book should be written of which he had so often heard hints,--though never
yet, with any accuracy, its name or subject. Sir Thomas, he was told, had been at Percycross,
but was not supposed to be there now. "Of course he was in his chambers," said Clarissa. "Old
Stemm does know how to tell lies so well!" It was, however, acknowledged that, having on his
hands a piece of business so very weighty, Sir Thomas might be almost anywhere without any
fault on his part. A gentleman in the throes of an election for Parliament could not be expected
to be at home. Even Patience did not feel called upon to regret his absence.

Before he went back to town Ralph found himself alone with Mary for a few minutes. "Mr. Newton,"
she said, "why don't you stand for Parliament?"

"I have not the means."

"You have great prospects. I should have thought you were just the man who ought to make it
the work of your life to get into Parliament." Ralph began to ask himself what had been the
work of his life. "They say that to be of real use a man ought to begin young."

"Nobody ought to go into the House without money," said Ralph.

"That means, I suppose, that men shouldn't go in who want their time to earn their bread. But
you haven't that to do. If I were a man such as you are I would always try to be something.
I am sure Parliament was meant for men having estates such as you will have."

"When I've got it, I'll think about Parliament, Miss Bonner."

"Perhaps it will be too late then. Don't you know that song of 'Excelsior,' Mr. Newton? You
ought to learn to sing it."

Yes;--he was learning to sing it after a fine fashion;--borrowing his tradesman's money, and
promising to marry his tradesman's daughter! He was half inclined to be angry with this interference
from Mary Bonner;--and yet he liked her for it. Could it be that she herself felt an interest
in what concerned him? "Ah me,"--he said to himself,--"how much better would it have been to
have learned something, to have fitted myself for some high work; and to have been able to
choose some such woman as this for my wife!" And all that had been sacrificed to horses at
the Moonbeam, and little dinners with Captain Fooks and Lieutenant Cox! Every now and again
during his life Phoebus had touched his trembling ears, and had given him to know that to sport
with the tangles of Naæra's hair was not satisfactory as the work of a man's life. But, alas,
the god had intervened but to little purpose. The horses at the Moonbeam, which had been two,
became four, and then six; and now he was pledged to marry Polly Neefit,--if only he could
induce Polly Neefit to have him. It was too late in the day for him to think now of Parliament
and Mary Bonner.

And then, before he left them, poor Clary whispered a word into his ear,--a cousinly, brotherly
word, such as their circumstances authorised her to make. "Is it settled about the property,
Ralph?" For she, too, had heard that this question of a sale was going forward.

"Not quite, Clary."

"You won't sell it; will you?"

"I don't think I shall."

"Oh, don't;--pray don't. Anything will be better than that. It is so good to wait." She was
thinking only of Ralph, and of his interests, but she could not forget the lesson which she
was daily teaching to herself.

"If I can help it, I shall not sell it."

"Papa will help you;--will he not? If I were you they should drag me in pieces before I would
part with my birthright;--and such a birthright!" It had occurred to her once that Ralph might
feel that, after what had passed between them one night on the lawn, he was bound not to wait,
that it was his duty so to settle his affairs that he might at once go to her father and say,--"Though
I shall never be Mr. Newton of Newton, I have still such and such means of supporting your
daughter." Ah! if he would only be open with her, and tell her everything, he would soon know
how unnecessary it was to make a sacrifice for her. He pressed her hand as he left her, and
said a word that was a word of comfort. "Clary, I cannot speak with certainty, but I do not
think that it will be sold."

"I am so glad!" she said. "Oh, Ralph, never, never part with it." And then she blushed, as
she thought of what she had said. Could it be that he would think that she was speaking for
her own sake;--because she looked forward to reigning some day as mistress of Newton Priory?
Ah, no, Ralph would never misinterpret her thoughts in a manner so unmanly as that!

The day came, and it was absolutely necessary that the answer should be given. Neefit came
to prompt him again, and seemed to sit on the sofa with more feeling of being at home than
he had displayed before. He brought his cheque-book with him, and laid it rather ostentatiously
upon the table. He had good news, too, from Polly. "If Mr. Newton would come down to Margate,
she would be ever so glad." That was the message as given by Mr. Neefit, but the reader will
probably doubt that it came exactly in those words from Polly's lips. Ralph was angry, and
shook his head in wrath. "Well, Captain, how's it to be?" asked Mr. Neefit.

"I shall let my uncle know that I intend to keep my property," said Ralph, with as much dignity
as he knew how to assume.

The breeches-maker jumped up and crowed,--actually crowed, as might have crowed a cock. It
was an art that he had learned in his youth. "That's my lad of wax," he said, slapping Ralph
on the shoulder. "And now tell us how much it's to be," said he, opening the cheque-book. But
Ralph declined to take money at the present moment, endeavouring to awe the breeches-maker
back into sobriety by his manner. Neefit did put up his cheque-book, but was not awed back
into perfect sobriety. "Come to me, when you want it, and you shall have it, Captain. Don't
let that chap as 'as the 'orses be any way disagreeable. You tell him he can have it all when
he wants it. And he can;--be blowed if he can't. We'll see it through, Captain. And now, Captain,
when'll you come out and see Polly?" Ralph would give no definite answer to this,--on account
of business, but was induced at last to send his love to Miss Neefit. "That man will drive
me into a lunatic asylum at last," he said to himself, as he threw himself into his arm-chair
when Neefit had departed.

Nevertheless, he wrote his letter to his uncle's lawyer, Mr. Carey, as follows:--

   ---- Club, 20 Sept., 186--.

   DEAR SIR,--

   After mature consideration I have resolved upon declining
   the offer made to me by my uncle respecting the Newton
   property.

   Faithfully yours,

   RALPH NEWTON.

   Richard Carey, Esq.

It was very short, but it seemed to him to contain all that there was to be said. He might,
indeed, have expressed regret that so much trouble had been occasioned;--but the trouble had
been taken not for his sake, and he was not bound to denude himself of his property because
his uncle had taken trouble.

When the letter was put into the Squire's hands in Mr. Carey's private room, the Squire was
nearly mad with rage. In spite of all that his son had told him, in disregard of all his own
solicitor's cautions, in the teeth of his nephew Gregory's certainty, he had felt sure that
the thing would be done. The young man was penniless, and must sell; and he could sell nowhere
else with circumstances so favourable. And now the young man wrote a letter as though he were
declining to deal about a horse! "It's some sham, some falsehood," said the Squire. "Some low
attorney is putting him up to thinking that he can get more out of me."

"It's possible," said Mr. Carey; "but there's nothing more to be done." The Squire when last
in London had asserted most positively that he would not increase his bid.

"But he's penniless," said the Squire.

"There are those about him that will put him in the way of raising money," said the lawyer.

"And so the property will go to the hammer,--and I can do nothing to help it!" Mr. Carey did
not tell his client that a gentleman had no right to complain because he could not deal with
effects which were not his own; but that was the line which his thoughts took. The Squire walked
about the room, lashing himself in his rage. He could not bear to be beaten. "How much more
would do it?" he said at last. It would be terribly bitter to him to be made to give way, to
be driven to increase the price; but even that would be less bitter than failure.

"I should say nothing,--just at present, if I were you," said Mr. Carey. The Squire still walked
about the room. "If he raises money on the estate we shall hear of it. And so much of his rights
as pass from him we can purchase. It will be more prudent for us to wait."

"Would another £5,000 do it at once?" said the Squire.

"At any rate I would not offer it," said Mr. Carey.

"Ah;--you don't understand. You don't feel what it is that I want. What would you say if a
man told you to wait while your hand was in the fire?"

"But you are in possession, Mr. Newton."

"No;--I'm not. I'm not in possession. I'm only a lodger in the place. I can do nothing. I cannot
even build a farm-house for a tenant."

"Surely you can, Mr. Gregory."

"What;--for him! You think that would be one of the delights of possession? Put my money into
the ground like seed, in order that the fruit may be gathered by him! I'm not a good enough
Christian, Mr. Carey, to take much delight in that. I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Carey. The
place is a hell upon earth to me, till I can call it my own." At last he left his lawyer, and
went back to Newton Priory, having given instructions that the transaction should be re-opened
between the two lawyers, and that additional money, to the extent of £5,000, should by degrees
be offered.

CHAPTER XXIII.

"I'LL BE A HYPOCRITE IF YOU CHOOSE."

There could hardly be a more unhappy man than was the Squire on his journey home. He had buoyed
himself up with hope till he had felt certain that he would return to Newton Priory its real
and permanent owner, no longer a lodger in the place, as he had called himself to the lawyer,
but able to look upon every tree as his own, with power to cut down every oak upon the property;
though, as he knew very well, he would rather spill blood from his veins than cut down one
of them. But in that case he would preserve the oaks,--preserve them by his own decision,--because
they were his own, and because he could give them to his own son. His son should cut them down
if he pleased. And then the power of putting up would be quite as sweet to him as the power
of pulling down. What pleasure would he have in making every deficient house upon the estate
efficient, when he knew that the stones as he laid them would not become the property of his
enemy. He was a man who had never spent his full income. The property had been in his hands
now for some fifteen years, and he had already amassed a considerable sum of money,--a sum
which would have enabled him to buy out his nephew altogether, without selling an acre,--presuming
the price already fixed to have been sufficient. He had determined to sell something, knowing
that he could not do as he would do with the remainder if his hands were empty. He had settled
it all in his mind;--how Ralph, his Ralph, must marry, and have a separate income. There would
be no doubt about his Ralph's marriage when once it should be known that his Ralph was the
heir to Newton. The bar sinister would matter but little then;--would be clean forgotten. His
mind had been full of all this as he had come up to London. It had all been settled. He had
decided upon ignoring altogether those cautions which his son and nephew and lawyer had croaked
into his ears. This legitimate heir was a ruined spendthrift, who had no alternative but to
raise money, no ambition but to spend money, no pursuit but to waste money. His temperament
was so sanguine that when he entered Mr. Carey's office he had hardly doubted. Now everything
had been upset, and he was cast down from triumph into an abyss of despondency by two lines
from this wretched, meaningless, poor-spirited spendthrift! "I believe he'd take a pleasure
in seeing the property going to the dogs, merely to spite me," said the Squire to his son,
as soon as he reached home,--having probably forgotten his former idea, that his nephew was
determined, with the pertinacity of a patient, far-sighted Jew money-lender, to wring from
him the last possible shilling.

Ralph, who was not the heir, was of his nature so just, that he could not hear an accusation
which he did not believe to be true, without protesting against it. The Squire had called the
heir a spiritless spendthrift, and a malicious evil-doer, intent upon ruining the estate, and
a grasping Jew, all in the same breath.

"I think you are hard upon him, sir," said the son to the father.

"Of course you think so. At any rate you'll say so," said the Squire. "One would suppose I
was thinking only of myself to hear you talk."

"I know what you're thinking of," said Ralph slowly; "and I know how much I owe you."

"I sometimes think that you ought to curse me," said the Squire.

After this, at this moment, with such words ringing in his ears, Ralph found it to be impossible
to expostulate with his father. He could only take his father's arm, and whisper a soft feminine
word or two. He would be as happy as the day was long, if only he could see his father happy.

"I can never be happy till I have placed you where you would have been," said the Squire. "The
gods are just, and our pleasant vices make instruments to scourge us." He did not quote the
line to himself, but the purport of it hung heavy on him. And yet he thought it hard that because
he had money in his pocket he could not altogether make himself free of the scourge.

On the following morning he was less vituperative and less unreasonable, but he was still intent
upon the subject. After breakfast he got his son into his own room,--the room in which he did
his magistrate's work, and added up his accounts, and kept his spuds and spurs,--and seriously
discussed the whole matter. What would it be wise that they should do next? "You don't mean
to tell me that you don't wish me to buy it?" said the Squire. No; Ralph would not say that.
If it were in the market, to be bought, and if the money were forthcoming, of course such a
purchase would be expedient. "The money is forthcoming," said the Squire. "We can make it up
one way or another. What matter if we did sell Brownriggs? What matter if we sold Brownriggs
and Twining as well?" Ralph quite acceded to this. As far as buying and selling were concerned
he would have acceded to anything that would have made his father happy. "I won't say a word
against this fellow, since you are so fond of him," continued the Squire. Ralph, though his
father paused, made no reply to the intended sarcasm. "But you must allow that he had a reason
for writing such a letter as he did."

"Of course he had a reason," said Ralph.

"Well;--we'll say that he wants to keep it."

"That's not unnatural."

"Not at all. Everybody likes to keep what he's got, and to get as much as he can. That's nature.
But a man can't eat his cake and have it. He has been slow to learn that, no doubt; but I suppose
he has learned it. He wouldn't have gone to Sir Thomas Underwood, in the way he did, crying
to be helped,--if he hadn't learned it. Remember, Ralph, I didn't go to him first;--he came
to me. You always forget that. What was the meaning then of Sir Thomas writing to me in that
pitiful way,--asking me to do something for him;--and he who had I don't know how much, something
like £800 a year, I take it, the day he came of age?"

"Of course he has been imprudent."

"He cannot eat his cake and have it. He wants to eat it, and I want to have it. I am sure it
may be managed. I suppose you mean to go up and see him."

"See Ralph?"

"Why not? You are not afraid of him." The son smiled, but made no answer. "You might find out
from him what it is he really wants;--what he will really do. Those attorneys don't understand.
Carey isn't a bad fellow, and as for honesty, I'd trust him with anything. I've known him and
his father all my life, and in any ordinary piece of business there is no one whose opinion
I would take so soon. But he talks of my waiting, telling me that the thing will come round
after a few years,--as if what one wanted was merely an investment for one's money. It isn't that."

"No, sir;--it isn't that."

"Not that at all. It's the feeling of the thing. Your lawyer may be the best man in the world
to lay out your money in a speculation, but he doesn't dare to buy contentment for you. He
doesn't see it, and one hardly dares to try and make him see it. I'd give the half of it all
to have the other half, but I cannot tell him that. I'd give one half so long as that fellow
wasn't to be the owner of the other. We'll have no opposition Newton in the place."

The Squire's son was of course willing enough to go up to London. He would see the heir at
any rate, and endeavour to learn what were the wishes of the heir. "You may say what money
you like," said the Squire. "I hardly care what I pay, so long as it is possible to pay it.
Go up to £10,000 more, if that will do it."

"I don't think I can bargain," said the son.

"But he can," said the father. "At any rate you can find out whether he will name a price.
I'd go myself, but I know I should quarrel with him."

Ralph prepared himself for the journey, and, as a matter of course, took the parson into his
confidence; not telling the parson anything of the absolute sum named, but explaining that
it was his purpose to become acquainted with the heir, and if possible to learn his views.
"You'll find Ralph a very different fellow from what my uncle thinks him," said the parson.
"I shall be much mistaken if he does not tell you quite openly what he intends. He is careless
about money, but he never was greedy." And then they got to other matters. "You will of course
see the girls at Fulham," said the parson.

"Yes;--I shall manage to get down there."

The story of Gregory's passion for Clarissa was well known to the other. Gregory, who would
not for worlds have spoken of such a matter among his general acquaintance, who could not have
brought himself to mention it in the presence of two hearers, had told it all to the one companion
who was nearest and dearest to him,--"I wish I were going with you," said the parson.

"Why not come with me then?"

"And yet I don't wish it. If I were in London I doubt whether I would go there. There could
be no use in it."

"It is one of those things," said Ralph, "in which a man should never despair as long as there
is a possibility."

"Ah, yes; people say so. I don't believe in that kind of perseverance myself;--at any rate
not with her. She knows her own mind,--as well as I know mine. I think I promised her that
I would trouble her no more."

"Promises like that are mere pie-crusts," said Ralph.

"Give her my love;--that's all. And don't do that unless you're alone with her. I shall live
it down some day, no doubt, but to tell the truth I have made up my mind not to marry. I'm
half inclined to think that a clergyman shouldn't marry. There are some things which our ancestors
understood pretty well, although we think they were such fools. I should like to see the new
cousin, certainly."

Ralph said nothing more about the new cousin; and was perhaps hardly aware how greatly the
idea of again seeing the new cousin had enhanced the pleasure of his journey to London. About
a week after this he started, having devoted nearly all the afternoon before he went to the
packing of a large basket of ferns,--to each root or small bundle of which was appended a long
name in Latin,--as an offering to Patience Underwood. And yet he did not care very much for
Patience Underwood.

It was just the end of September,--the last day of September, when he reached London. Ralph
the heir was out of town, and the servant at his lodging professed she did not know where he
was. She thought it probable that he was "at Mr. 'Orsball's,--Mr. 'Orsball of the Moonbeam,
Barnfield,--a-looking after his 'orses." She suggested this, not from any knowledge in her
possession, but because Ralph was always believed to go to the Moonbeam when he left town.
He would, however, be back next week. His namesake, therefore, did not consider that it would
be expedient for him to follow the heir down to the Moonbeam.

But the Underwood girls would certainly be at Fulham, and he started at once with his ferns
for Popham Villa. He found them at home, and, singular to say, he found Sir Thomas there also.
On the very next morning Sir Thomas was to start for Percycross, to commence the actual work
of his canvass. The canvass was to occupy a fortnight, and on Monday the sixteenth the candidates
were to be nominated. Tuesday the seventeenth was the day of the election. The whole household
was so full of the subject that at first there was hardly room for the ferns. "Oh, Mr. Newton,
we are so much obliged to you. Papa is going to stand for Percycross." That, or nearly that,
was the form in which the ferns were received. Newton was quite contented. An excuse for entering
the house was what he had wanted, and his excuse was deemed ample. Sir Thomas, who was disposed
to be very civil to the stranger, had not much to say about his own prospects. To a certain
degree he was ashamed of Percycross, and had said very little about it even to Stemm since
his personal acquaintance had been made with Messrs. Spiveycomb, Pile, and Pabsby. But the
girls were not ashamed of Percycross. To them as yet Percycross was the noblest of all British
boroughs. Had not the Conservatives of Percycross chosen their father to be their representative
out of all British subjects? Sir Thomas had tried, but had tried quite in vain, to make them
understand the real fashion of the selection. If Percycross would only send him to Parliament,
Percycross should be divine. "What d'you think?" said Clary; "there's a man of the name of--.
I wish you'd guess the name of this man who is going to stand against papa, Mr. Newton."

"The name won't make much difference," said Sir Thomas.

"Ontario Moggs!" said Clary. "Do you think it possible, Mr. Newton, that Percycross,--the town
where one of the Percys set up a cross in the time of the Crusaders,--didn't he, papa?--"

"I shall not consider myself bound to learn all that unless they elect me," said Sir Thomas;
"but I don't think there were Percys in the days of the Crusaders."

"At any rate, the proper name is Percy St. Cross," said Clary. "Could such a borough choose
Ontario Moggs to be one of its members, Mr. Newton?"

"I do like the name," said Mary Bonner.

"Perhaps papa and Ontario Moggs may be the two members," said Clary, laughing. "If so, you
must bring him down here, papa. Only he's a shoemaker."

"That makes no difference in these days," said Sir Thomas.

The ferns were at last unpacked, and the three girls were profuse in their thanks. Who does
not know how large a space a basket of ferns will cover when it is unpacked and how large the
treasure looms. "They'll cover the rocks on the other side," said Mary. It seemed to Newton
that Mary Bonner was more at home than she had been when he had seen her before, spoke more
freely of what concerned the house, and was beginning to become one of the family. But still
she was, as it were, overshadowed by Clarissa. In appearance, indeed, she was the queen among
the three, but in active social life she did not compete with Clary. Patience stood as a statue
on a pedestal, by no means unobserved and ignored; beautiful in form, but colourless. Newton,
as he looked at the three, wondered that a man so quiet and gentle as the young parson should
have chosen such a love as Clary Underwood. He remained half the day at the villa, dining there
at the invitation of Sir Thomas. "My last dinner," said Sir Thomas, "unless I am lucky enough
to be rejected. Men when they are canvassing never dine;--and not often after they're elected."

The guest had not much opportunity of ingratiating himself specially with the beauty; but the
beauty did so far ingratiate herself with him,--unconsciously on her part,--that he half resolved
that should his father be successful in his present enterprise, he would ask Mary Bonner to
be the Queen of Newton Priory. His father had often urged him to marry,--never suggesting that
any other quality beyond good looks would be required in his son's wife. He had never spoken
of money, or birth, or name. "I have an idea," he had said, laughing, "that you'll marry a
fright some day. I own I should like to have a pretty woman about the house. One doesn't expect
much from a woman, but she is bound to be pretty." This woman was at any rate pretty. Pretty,
indeed! Was it possible that any woman should be framed more lovely than this one? But he must
bide his time. He would not ask any girl to marry him till he should know what position he
could ask her to fill. But though he spoke little to Mary, he treated her as men do treat women
whom they desire to be allowed to love. There was a tone in his voice, a worship in his eye,
and a flush upon his face, and a hesitation in his manner, which told the story, at any rate
to one of the party there. "He didn't come to bring you the ferns," said Clarissa to Patience.

"He brought them for all of us," said Patience.

"Young men don't go about with ferns for the sake of the ferns," said Clary. "They were merely
an excuse to come and see Mary."

"Why shouldn't he come and see Mary?"

"He has my leave, Patty. I think it would be excellent. Isn't it odd that there should be two
Ralph Newtons. One would be Mrs. Newton and the other Mrs. Ralph."

"Clarissa, Clarissa!" said Patience, almost in a tone of agony.

"I'll be a hypocrite if you choose, Patty," said Clarissa, "or I'll be true. But you can't
have me both at once." Patience said nothing further then. The lesson of self-restraint which
she desired to teach was very hard of teaching.

There was just a word spoken between Sir Thomas and Newton about the property. "I intend to
see Ralph Newton, if I can find him," said Ralph who was not the heir.

"I don't think he is far from town," said Sir Thomas.

"My father thinks that we might come to an understanding."

"Perhaps so," said Sir Thomas.

"I have no strong anxiety on the subject myself," said Newton; "but my father thinks that if
he does wish to sell his reversion--"

"He doesn't wish it. How can a man wish it?"

"Under the circumstances it may be desirable."

"You had better see him, and I think he will tell you," said Sir Thomas. "You must understand
that a man thinks much of such a position. Pray come to us again. We shall always be glad to
see you when you are in town."

CHAPTER XXIV.

"I FIND I MUST."

Ralph the heir had, after all, gone to Margate. Mr. Neefit had got such a hold upon him that
he had no help for it. He found himself forced to go to Margate. When he was asked the second
and third time, with all the energy of Mr. Neefit's eloquence, he was unable to resist. What
reason could he give that he should not go to Margate, seeing that it was a thing quite understood
that he was to endeavour to persuade Polly to be his wife. Neefit came to him two mornings
running, catching him each morning just as he was smoking his cigar after breakfast, and was
very eloquent. He already owed Mr. Neefit over five hundred pounds, and the debt on the first
of these mornings was made up to one thousand pounds, a receipt being given for the shop debt
on one side, and a bond for the whole money, with 5 per cent. interest, being taken in return
for it. "You'd better pay off what little things you owes, Captain," said the generous breeches-maker,
"and then, when the time comes, we'll settle with the gent about the 'orses." Neefit played
his game very well. He said not a word about selling the horses, or as to any restriction on
his young "Captain's" amusements. If you pull at your fish too hard you only break your line.
Neefit had a very fine fish on his hook, and he meant to land it. Not a word was said about
Margate on that occasion, till the little pecuniary transaction was completed. Then the Captain
was informed that the Neefit family would certainly spend the next week at that marine Paradise,
and that Polly expected "the Captain's" company. "Them's the places," said Neefit, "where a
girl grows soft as butter." This he said when the door-handle was in his hand, so that "the
Captain" had no chance of answering him. Then he came again the next morning, and returned
to the subject as though "the Captain" had already consented. There was a near approach to
anger on one side and determined opposition on the other during this interview, but it ended
in acquiescence on the Captain's side. Then Mr. Neefit was once more as gracious as possible.
The graciousness of such men in acknowledging their own inferiority is sometimes wonderful.
"You needn't be seen about with me, you know," said Mr. Neefit. This was said after Ralph had
positively declared that he would not go actually with the Neefits and occupy the same apartments.
"It would be altogether wrong,--for Polly's sake," said Ralph, looking very wise and very moral.
To this view Neefit assented, not being quite sure how far "the Captain" might be correct in
his ideas of morality.

"They've been and fixed young Newton for Polly," said Mr. Waddle that morning, to his friend
Herr Bawwah, when he was told to mark off Ralph's account in the books as settled. "Dashed
if they 'aven't," the German grunted. "Old Neverfit's a-playing at 'igh game, ain't he?" Such
was the most undeserved nickname by which this excellent tradesman was known in his own establishment.
"I don't see nodin about 'igh," said the German. "He ain't got no money. I call it low." Waddle
endeavoured to explain the circumstances, but failed. "De peoples should be de peoples, and
de nobles should be de nobles," said Herr Bawwah;--a doctrine which was again unintelligible
to Mr. Waddle.

Ralph having overcome an intense desire to throw over his engagement, to sell his horses, and
to start for Jerusalem, did go down to Margate. He put himself up at an hotel there, eat his
dinner, lighted a cigar, and went down upon the sands. It was growing dusk, and he thought
that he should be alone,--or, at least, uninterrupted in a crowd. The crowd was there, and
nobody in the place would know him,--except the Neefits. He had not been on the sands two minutes
before he encountered Mr. Neefit and his daughter. The breeches-maker talked loud, and was
extremely happy. Polly smiled, and was very pretty. In two minutes Neefit saw, or pretended
to see, a friend, and Ralph was left with his lady-love. There never was so good-natured a
father! "You'll bring her home to tea, Captain," said the father, as he walked off.

On that occasion, Ralph abstained from all direct love-making, and Polly, when she found that
it was to be so, made herself very pleasant. "The idea of your being at Margate, Mr. Newton,"
said Polly.

"Why not I, as well as another?"

"Oh, I don't know. Brighton, or some of those French places, or any where all about the world,
would be more likely for you, I should think."

"Margate seems to be very jolly."

"Oh, I like it. But then we are not swells, you know. Have you heard the news? Ontario Moggs
is going to stand to be 'member of Parliament' for Percycross."

"My rival!" That was the only word he uttered approaching to the subject of love.

"I don't know anything about that, Mr. Newton. But it's true."

"Why, Sir Thomas Underwood is going to stand."

"I don't know anything about anybody else, but Ontario Moggs is going to stand. I do so hope
he'll get in. They say he speaks quite beautiful. Did you ever hear him?"

"I never heard him."

"Ah, you may laugh. But a bootmaker can make a speech sometimes as well as,--as well as a peer
of Parliament. Father says that old Mr. Moggs has given him ever so much money to do it. When
a man is in Parliament, Mr. Newton, doesn't that make him a gentleman?"

"No."

"What then?"

"Nothing on earth can make a man a gentleman. You don't understand Latin, Polly?"

"No. I hope that isn't necessary for a young woman."

"By no means. But a poet is born, and can't be made."

"I'm not talking of poets. Ontario Moggs is a poet. But I know what you mean. There's something
better even than to be a gentleman."

"One may be an angel,--as you are, Polly."

"Oh,--me;--I'm not thinking of myself. I'm thinking of Ontario Moggs,--going into Parliament.
But then he is so clever!"

Ralph was not minded to be cut out by Moggs, junior, after coming all the way to Margate after
his lady-love. The thing was to be done, and he would do it. But not to-night. Then he took
Polly home, and eat prawns with Mr. and Mrs. Neefit. On the next day they all went out together
in a boat.

The week was nearly over, and Ralph had renewed his suit more than once, when the breeches-maker
proceeded to "put him through his facings." "She's a-coming round, ain't she, Captain?" said
Mr. Neefit. By this time Ralph hated the sight of Neefit so thoroughly, that he was hardly
able to repress the feeling. Indeed, he did not repress it. Whether Neefit did not see it,
or seeing it chose to ignore the matter, cannot be said. He was, at any rate, as courteous
as ever. Mrs. Neefit, overcome partly by her husband's authority, and partly induced to believe
that as Ontario Moggs was going into Parliament he was no longer to be regarded as a possible
husband, had yielded, and was most polite to the lover. When he came in of an evening, she
always gave him a double allowance of prawns, and hoped that the tea was to his liking. But
she said very little more than this, standing somewhat in awe of him. Polly had been changeable,
consenting to walk with him every day, but always staving the matter off when he asked her
whether she thought that she yet knew him well enough to be his wife. "Oh, not half well enough,"
she would say. "And then, perhaps, you know, I'm not over fond of the half that I do know."
And so it was up to the last evening, when the father put him through his facings. In respect
of "the Captain's" behaviour to Polly, the father had no just ground of complaint, for Ralph
had done his best. Indeed, Ralph was fond enough of Polly. And it was hard for a man to be
much with her without becoming fond of her. "She's a-coming round, ain't she, Captain?" said
Mr. Neefit.

"I can't say that she is," said Ralph, turning upon his heel near the end of the pier.

"You don't stick to her fast enough, Captain."

This was not to be borne. "I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Neefit," said Ralph, "you'd better
let me alone, or else I shall be off."

"You'd only have to come back, Captain, you know," said Neefit. "Not as I want to interfere.
You're on the square, I see that. As long as you're on the square, there ain't nothing I won't
do. I ain't a-blaming you,--only stick to her." "Damn it all!" said Ralph, turning round again
in the other direction. But there was Neefit still confronting him. "Only stick to her, Captain,
and we'll pull through. I'll put her through her facings to-night. She's thinking of that orkard
lout of a fellow just because he's standing to be a Parl'ament gent." This did not improve
matters, and Ralph absolutely ran away,--ran away, and escaped to his hotel. He would try again
in the morning, would still make her his wife if she would have him! And then swore a solemn
oath that in such case he would never see his father-in-law again.

Polly was not at all averse to giving him opportunities. They were together on the sands on
the next morning, and he then asked her very seriously whether she did not think that there
had been enough of this, that they might make up their minds to love each other, and be married
as it were out of hand. Her father and mother wished it, and what was there against it? "You
cannot doubt that I am in earnest now, Polly?" he said.

"I know you are in earnest well enough," she answered.

"And you do not doubt that I love you?"

"I doubt very much whether you love father," said Polly. She spoke this so sharp and quickly
that he had no reply ready. "If you and I were to be married, where should we live? I should
want to have father and mother with me. You'd mean that, I suppose?" The girl had read his
thoughts, and he hadn't a word to say for himself. "The truth is, you despise father, Mr. Newton."

"No, indeed."

"Yes, you do. I can see it. And perhaps it's all right that you should. I'm not saying-- Of
course, he's not like you and your people. How should he be? Only I'm thinking, like should
marry like."

"Polly, you're fit for any position in which a man could place you."

"No, I'm not. I'm not fit for any place as father wouldn't be fit for too. I'd make a better
hand at it than father, I dare say,--because I'm younger. But I won't go anywhere where folk
is to be ashamed of father. I'd like to be a lady well enough;--but it'd go against the very
grain of my heart if I had a house and he wasn't to be made welcome to the best of everything."

"Polly, you're an angel!"

"I'm a young woman who knows who's been good to me. He's to give me pretty nigh everything.
You wouldn't be taking me if it wasn't for that. And then, after all, I'm to turn my back on
him because he ain't like your people. No; never; Mr. Newton! You're well enough, Mr. Newton;
more than good enough for me, no doubt. But I won't do it. I'd cut my heart out if I was turning
my back upon father." She had spoken out with a vengeance, and Ralph didn't know that there
was any more to be said. He couldn't bring himself to assure her that Mr. Neefit would be a
welcome guest in his house. At this moment the breeches-maker was so personally distasteful
to him that he had not force enough in him to tell a lie upon the matter. They were now at
the entrance of the pier, at which their ways would separate. "Good-bye, Mr. Newton," said
she. "There had better be an end of it;--hadn't there?" "Goodbye, Polly," he said, pressing
her hand as he left her.

Polly, walked up home with a quick step, with a tear in her eye, and with grave thoughts in
her heart. It would have been very nice. She could have loved him, and she felt the attraction,
and the softness, and the sweet-smelling delicateness of gentle associations. It would have
been very nice. But she could not sever herself from her father. She could understand that
he must be distasteful to such a man as Ralph Newton. She would not blame Ralph. But the fact
that it was so, shut for her the door of that Elysium. She knew that she could not be happy
were she to be taken to such a mode of life as would force her to accuse herself of ingratitude
to her father. And so Ralph went back to town without again seeing the breeches-maker.

The first thing he found in his lodgings was a note from his namesake.

   DEAR SIR,--

   I am up in town, and am very anxious to see you in respect
   of the arrangements which have been proposed respecting
   the property. Will you fix a meeting as soon as you are
   back?

   Yours always,

   RALPH NEWTON.

   Charing Cross Hotel, 2 Oct., 186--.

Of course he would see his namesake. Why not? And why not take his uncle's money, and pay off
Neefit, and have done with it? Neefit must be paid off, let the money come from where it would.
He called at the hotel, and not finding his cousin, left a note asking him to breakfast on
the following morning; and then he spent the remainder of that day in renewed doubt. He was
so sick of Neefit,--whose manner of eating shrimps had been a great offence added to other
offences! And yet one of his great sorrows was that he should lose Polly. Polly in her way
was perfect, and he felt almost sure, now, that Polly loved him. Girls had no right to cling
to their fathers after marriage. There was Scripture warranty against it. And yet the manner
in which she had spoken of her father had greatly added to his admiration.

The two Ralphs breakfasted together, not having met each other since they were children, and
having even then scarcely known each other. Ralph the heir had been brought up a boy at the
parsonage of Newton Peele, but the other Ralph had never been taken to Newton till after his
grandfather's death. The late parson had died within twelve months of his father,--a wretched
year, during which the Squire and the parson had always squabbled,--and then Ralph who was
the heir had been transferred to the guardianship of Sir Thomas Underwood. It was only during
the holidays of that one year that the two Ralphs had been together. The "Dear Sir" will probably
be understood by the discerning reader. The Squire's son had never allowed himself to call
even Gregory his cousin. Ralph the heir in writing back had addressed him as "Dear Ralph."
The Squire's son thought that that was very well, but chose that any such term of familiarity
should come first from him who was in truth a Newton. He felt his condition, though he was
accustomed to make so light of it to his father.

The two young men shook hands together cordially, and were soon at work upon their eggs and
kidneys. They immediately began about Gregory and the parsonage and the church, and the big
house. The heir to the property, though he had not been at Newton for fourteen years, remembered
well its slopes, and lawns, and knolls, and little valleys. He asked after this tree and that,
of this old man and that old woman, of the game, and the river fishery, and the fox coverts,
and the otters of which three or four were reputed to be left when he was there. Otters it
seems were gone, but the foxes were there in plenty. "My father would be half mad if they drew
the place blank," said the Squire's son.

"Does my uncle hunt much?"

"Every Monday and Saturday, and very often on the Wednesday."

"And you?"

"I call myself a three-day man, but I often make a fourth. Garth must be very far off if he
don't see me. I don't do much with any other pack."

"Does my uncle ride?"

"Yes; he goes pretty well;--he says he don't. If he gets well away I think he rides as hard
as ever he did. He don't like a stern chace."

"No more do I," said Ralph the heir. "But I'm often driven to make it. What can a fellow do?
An old chap turns round and goes home, and doesn't feel ashamed of himself; but we can't do
that. That's the time when one ruins his horses." Then he told all about the Moonbeam and the
B. & B., and his own stud. The morning was half gone, and not a word had been said about business.

The Squire's son felt that it was so, and rushed at the subject all in a hurry. "I told you
what I have come up to town about."

"Oh, yes; I understand."

"I suppose I may speak plainly," said the Squire's son.

"Why not?" said Ralph the heir.

"Well; I don't know. Of course it's best. You wrote to Carey, you know."

"Yes; I wrote the very moment I had made up my mind."

"You had made up your mind, then?"

Ralph had certainly made up his mind when he wrote the letter of which they were speaking,
but he was by no means sure but that his mind was not made up now in another direction. Since
he had become so closely intimate with Mr. Neefit, and since Polly had so clearly explained
to him her ideas as to paternal duty, his mind had veered round many points. "Yes," said he.
"I had made up my mind."

"I don't suppose it can be of any use for you and me to be bargaining together," said the other
Ralph.

"Not in the least."

"Of course it's a great thing to be heir to Newton. It's a nice property, and all that. Only
my father thought--"

"He thought that I wanted money," said Ralph the heir.

"Just that."

"So I do. God knows I do. I would tell you everything. I would indeed. As to screwing a hard
bargain, I'm the last man in London who would do it. I thought that your father might be willing
to buy half the property."

"He won't do that. You see the great thing is the house and park. We should both want that;--shouldn't
we? Of course it must be yours; and I feel--I don't know how I feel in asking you whether you
want to sell it."

"You needn't mind that, Ralph."

"If you don't think the sum the lawyers and those chaps fixed is enough,--"

Then Ralph the heir, interrupting him, rose from his chair and spoke out. "My uncle has never
understood me, and never will. He thinks hardly of me, and if he chooses to do so, I can't
help it. He hasn't seen me for fourteen years, and of course he is entitled to think what he
pleases. If he would have seen me the thing might have been easier."

"Don't let us go back to that, Ralph," said the Squire's son.

"I don't want to go back to anything. When it comes to a fellow's parting with such prospects
as mine, it does come very hard upon him. Of course it's my own fault. I might have got along
well enough;--only I haven't. I am hard up for money,--very hard up. And yet,--if you were
in my place, you wouldn't like to part with it."

"Perhaps not," said the Squire's son, not knowing what to say.

"As to bargaining, and asking so much more, and all the rest of it, that's out of the question.
Somebody fixed a price, and I suppose he knew what he was at."

"That was a minimum price."

"I understand. It was all fair, I don't doubt. It didn't seem a great deal; but your father
might live for thirty years."

"I hope he will," said the Squire's son.

"As for standing off for more money, I never dreamed of such a thing. If your father thinks
that, he has wronged me. But I believe he always does wrong me. And about the building, and
the trees, and the leases, and the house, he might do just as he pleased for me. I have never
said a word, and never shall. I must say I sometimes think he has been hard upon me. In fourteen
years he has never asked me to set my foot upon the estate, that I might see the place which
must one day be mine."

This was an accusation which the Squire's son found it very difficult to answer. It could not
be answered without a reference to his own birth, and it was almost impossible that he should
explain his father's feelings on the subject. "If this were settled, we should be glad that
you would come," he said.

"Yes," said Ralph the heir; "yes,--if I consented to give up everything that is mine by right.
Do you think that a fellow can bring himself to abandon all that so easily? It's like tearing
a fellow's heart out of him. If I'll do that, my uncle will let me come and see what it is
that I have lost! That which would induce him to welcome me would make it impossible that I
should go there. It may be that I shall sell it. I suppose I shall. But I will never look at
it afterwards." As it came to this point, the tears were streaming down his cheeks, and the
eyes of the other Ralph were not dry.

"I wish it could be made pleasant for us all," said the Squire's son. The wish was well enough,
but the expression of it was hardly needed, because it must be so general.

"But all this is rot and nonsense," said Ralph the heir, brushing the tears away from his eyes,
"and I am only making an ass of myself. Your father wants to know whether I will sell the reversion
to Newton Priory. I will. I find I must. I don't know whether I wouldn't sooner cut my throat;
but unless I cut my throat I must sell it. I had a means of escape, but that has gone by. When
I wrote that letter there was a means of escape. Now there's none."

"Ralph," said the other.

"Well; speak on. I've about said all I've got to say. Only don't think I want to ballyrag about
the money. That's right enough, no doubt. If there's more to come, the people that have to
look to it will say so. I'm not going to be a Jew about it."

"Ralph; I wouldn't do anything in a hurry. I won't take your answer in a hurry like this."

"It's no good, my dear fellow, I must do it. I must have £5,000 at once."

"You can get that from an insurance office."

"And then I should have nothing to live on. I must do it. I have no way out of it,--except
cutting my throat."

The Squire's son paused a moment, thinking. "I was told by my father," said he, "to offer you
more money."

"If it's worth more the people will say so," said Ralph the heir, impetuously; "I do not want
to sell it for more than it's worth. Ask them to settle it immediately. There are people I
must pay money to at once."

And so the Squire's son had done the Squire's errand. When he reported his success to Mr. Carey,
that gentleman asked him whether he had the heir's consent in writing. At this the successful
buyer was almost disposed to be angry; but Mr. Carey softened him by an acknowledgment that
he had done more than could have been expected. "I'll see his lawyer to-morrow," said Mr. Carey,
"and then, unless he changes his mind again, we'll soon have it settled." After that the triumphant
negotiator sent a telegram home to his father, "It is settled, and the purchase is made."

CHAPTER XXV.

"MR. GRIFFENBOTTOM."

On Monday, the 16th of October, Sir Thomas Underwood went down to Percycross, and the first
information given him was that Mr. Westmacott and Ontario Moggs had arrived on the Saturday,
and were already at work. Mr. Griffenbottom was expected early on the Tuesday. "They've stolen
a march on us, then," said Sir Thomas to Mr. Trigger.

"Give 'em rope enough, and they'll hang themselves," replied the managing agent. "There was
Moggs spouting to them on his own hook on Saturday night, and Westmacott's chaps are ready
to eat him. And he wanted to be doing it yesterday, Sunday; only some of them got a hold of
him and wouldn't let him loose. Moggs is a great card for us, Sir Thomas. There's nothing like
one of them spouting fellows to overset the coach."

"Mr. Westmacott is fond of that too," said Sir Thomas.

"He understands. He's used to it. He does it in the proper place. Westmacott wasn't a bad member
for the place;--wasn't perhaps quite free enough with his money, but Westmacott was very decent."
Sir Thomas could not help feeling that Trigger spoke of it as though he wished that the two
old members might be returned. Ah, well! had it been possible, Mr. Trigger would have wished
it. Mr. Trigger understood the borough, knew well the rocks before them, and would have wished
it,--although he had been so imperative with Mr. Griffenbottom as to the second conservative
candidate. And now Mr. Griffenbottom had sent them a man who would throw all the fat in the
fire by talking of purity of election! "And Moggs has been making a fool of himself in another
direction," said Trigger, thinking that no opportunity for giving a valuable hint should be
lost. "He's been telling the working men already that they'll be scoundrels and knaves if they
take so much as a glass of beer without paying for it."

"Scoundrel is a strong word," said Sir Thomas, "but I like him for that."

"Percycross won't like him. Men would rather have all that left to their own feelings. They
who want beer or money certainly won't thank him; and they who don't want it don't like to
be suspected."

"Every one will take it as addressed to his neighbour and not to himself."

"We are very fond of our neighbours here, Sir Thomas, and that kind of thing won't go down."
This was on the evening of the candidate's arrival, and the conversation was going on absolutely
while Sir Thomas was eating his dinner. He had asked Mr. Trigger to join him, and Mr. Trigger
had faintly alleged that he had dined at three; but he soon so far changed his mind as to be
able to express an opinion that he could "pick a bit," and he did pick a bit. After which he
drank the best part of a bottle of port,--having assured Sir Thomas that the port at the Percy
Standard was a sort of wine that one didn't get every day. And as he drank his port, he continued
to pour in lessons of wisdom. Sir Thomas employed his mind the while in wondering when Mr.
Trigger would go away, and forecasting whether Mr. Trigger would desire to drink port wine
at the Percy Standard every evening during the process of canvassing. About nine o'clock the
waiter announced that a few gentlemen below desired to see Sir Thomas. "Our friends," said
Mr. Trigger. "Just put chairs, and bring a couple of bottles of port, John. I'm glad they're
come, Sir Thomas, because it shows that they mean to take to you." Up they were shown, Messrs.
Spiveycomb, Spicer, Pile, Roodylands,--the bootmaker who has not yet been named,--Pabsby, and
seven or eight others. Sir Thomas shook hands with them all. He observed that Mr. Trigger was
especially cordial in his treatment of Spicer, the mustard-maker,--as to whose defection he
had been so fearful in consequence of certain power which Mr. Westmacott might have in the
wholesale disposal of mustard. "I hope you find yourself better," said Mr. Pile, opening the
conversation. Sir Thomas assured his new friend that he was pretty well. "'Cause you seemed
rayther down on your luck when you was here before," said Mr. Pile.

"No need for that," said Spicer, the man of mustard. "Is there, Trigger?" Trigger sat a little
apart, with one bottle of port wine at his elbow, and took no part in the conversation. He
was aware that his opportunities were so great that the outside supporters ought to have their
time. "Any objection to this, Sir Thomas?" he said, taking a cigar-case out of his pocket.
Sir Thomas, who hated tobacco, of course gave permission. Trigger rang the bell, ordered cigars
for the party, and then sat apart with his port wine. In ten minutes Sir Thomas hardly knew
where he was, so dense was the cloud of smoke.

"Sir Thomas," began Mr. Pabsby,--"if I could only clearly see my way--"

"You'll see it clear enough before nomination-day," said Mr. Pile.

"Any ways, after election," said a conservative grocer. Both these gentlemen belonged to the
Established Church and delighted in snubbing Mr. Pabsby. Indeed, Mr. Pabsby had no business
at this meeting, and so he had been told very plainly by one or two as he had joined them in
the street. He explained, however, that his friend Sir Thomas had come to him the very first
person in Percycross, and he carried his point in joining the party. But he was a mild man,
and when he was interrupted he merely bided another opportunity.

"I hope, Sir Thomas, your mind is made up to do something for our trade," said Mr. Roodylands.

"What's the matter with your trade?" said Spiveycomb, the paper-maker.

"Well;--we ain't got no jobs in it;--that's the matter," said Mr. Pile.

"As for jobs, what's the odds?" said a big and burly loud-mouthed tanner. "All on us likes
a good thing when it comes in our way. Stow that, and don't let's be told about jobs. Sir Thomas,
here's your health, and I wish you at the top of the poll,--that is, next to Mr. Griffenbottom."
Then they all drank to Sir Thomas's health, Mr. Pabsby filling himself a bumper for the occasion.

It was eleven before they went away, at which time Mr. Pabsby had three time's got as far as
a declaration of his wish to see things clearly. Further than this he could not get; but still
he went away in perfect good humour. He would have another opportunity, as he took occasion
to whisper when he shook hands with the candidate. Trigger stayed even yet for half-an-hour.
"Don't waste your time on that fellow, Pabsby," he said. "No, I won't," said Sir Thomas. "And
be very civil to old Pile." "He doesn't seem disposed to return the compliment," said Sir Thomas.
"But he doesn't want your interest in the borough," said Trigger, with the air of a man who
had great truths to teach. "In electioneering, Sir Thomas, it's mostly the same as in other
matters. Nothing's to be had for nothing. If you were a retail seller of boots from Manchester
old Pile would be civil enough to you. You may snub Spicer as much as you please, because he'll
expect to get something out of you." "He'll be very much deceived," said Sir Thomas. "I'm not
so sure of that," said Trigger;--"Spicer knows what he's about pretty well." Then, at last,
Mr. Trigger went, assuring Sir Thomas most enthusiastically that he would be with him before
nine the next morning.

Many distressing thoughts took possession of Sir Thomas as he lay in bed. He had made up his
mind that he would in no way break the law, and he didn't know whether he had not broken it
already by giving these people tobacco and wine. And yet it would have been impossible for
him to have refused Mr. Trigger permission to order the supply. Even for the sake of the seat,--even
for the sake of his reputation, which was so much dearer to him than the seat,--he could not
have bidden guests, who had come to him in his own room, to go elsewhere if they required wine.
It was a thing not to be done, and yet, for aught he knew, Mr. Trigger might continue to order
food and wine, and beer and tobacco, to be supplied ad libitum, and whenever he chose. How
was he to put an end to it, otherwise than by throwing up the game, and going back to London?
That now would be gross ill-usage to the Conservatives of Percycross, who by such a step would
be left in the lurch without a candidate. And then was it to be expected that he should live
for a week with Mr. Trigger, with no other relief than that which would be afforded by Messrs.
Pile, Spiveycomb, and Co. Everything about him was reeking of tobacco. And then, when he sat
down to breakfast at nine o'clock there would be Mr. Trigger!

The next morning he was out of bed at seven, and ordered his breakfast at eight sharp. He would
steal a march on Trigger. He went out into the sitting-room, and there was Trigger already
seated in the arm-chair, studying the list of the voters of Percycross! Heavens, what a man!
"I thought I'd look in early, and they told me you were coming out or I'd have just stepped
into your room." Into his very bed-room! Sir Thomas shuddered as he heard the proposition.
"We've a telegram from Griffenbottom," continued Trigger, "and he won't be here till noon.
We can't begin till he comes."

"Ah;--then I can just write a few letters," said Sir Thomas.

"I wouldn't mind letters now if I was you. If you don't mind, we'll go and look up the parsons.
There are four or five of 'em, and they like to be seen;--not in the way of canvassing. They're
all right, of course. And there's two of 'em won't leave a stone unturned in the outside hamlets.
But they like to be seen, and their wives like it." Whereupon Mr. Trigger ordered breakfast,--and
eat it. Sir Thomas reminded himself that a fortnight was after all but a short duration of
time. He might live through a fortnight,--probably,--and then when Mr. Griffenbottom came it
would be shared between two.

At noon he returned to the Percy Standard, very tired, there to await the coming of Mr. Griffenbottom.
Mr. Griffenbottom didn't come till three, and then bustled up into the sitting-room, which
Sir Thomas had thought was his own, as though all Percycross belonged to him. During the last
three hours supporters had been in and out continually, and Mr. Pabsby had made an ineffectual
attempt or two to catch Sir Thomas alone. Trigger had been going up and down between the Standard
and the station. Various men, friends and supporters of Griffenbottom and Underwood, had been
brought to him. Who were paid agents, who were wealthy townsmen, who were canvassers and messengers,
he did not know. There were bottles on the sideboard the whole time. Sir Thomas, in a speculative
manner, endeavouring to realise to himself the individuality of this and that stranger, could
only conceive that they who helped themselves were wealthy townsmen, and that they who waited
till they were asked by others were paid canvassers and agents. But he knew nothing, and could
only wish himself back in Southampton Buildings.

At last Mr. Griffenbottom, followed by a cloud of supporters, bustled into the room. Trigger
at once introduced the two candidates. "Very glad to meet you," said Griffenbottom. "So we're
going to fight this little battle together. I remember you in the House, you know, and I dare
say you remember me. I'm used to this kind of thing. I suppose you ain't. Well, Trigger, how
are things looking? I suppose we'd better begin down Pump Lane. I know my way about the place,
Honeywood, as well as if it was my bed-room. And so I ought, Trigger."

"I suppose you've seen the inside of pretty nearly every house in Percycross," said Trigger.

"There's some I don't want to see the inside of any more. I can tell you that. How are these
new householders going to vote?"

"Betwixt and between, Mr. Griffenbottom."

"I never thought we should find much difference. It don't matter what rent a man pays, but
what he does. I could tell you how nineteen out of twenty men here would vote, if you'd tell
me what they did, and who they were. What's to be done about talking to 'em?"

"To-morrow night we're to be in the Town Hall, Mr. Griffenbottom, and Thursday an open-air
meeting, with a balcony in the market-place."

"All right. Come along. Are you good at spinning yarns to them, Honeywood?"

"I don't like it, if you mean that," said Sir Thomas.

"It's better than canvassing. By George, anything is better than that. Come along. We may get
Pump Lane, and Petticoat Yard, and those back alleys done before dinner. You've got cards,
of course, Trigger." And the old, accustomed electioneerer led the way out to his work.

Mr. Griffenbottom was a heavy hale man, over sixty, somewhat inclined to be corpulent, with
a red face, and a look of assured impudence about him which nothing could quell or diminish.
The kind of life which he had led was one to which impudence was essentially necessary. He
had done nothing for the world to justify him in assuming the airs of a great man,--but still
he could assume them, and many believed in him. He could boast neither birth, nor talent, nor
wit,--nor, indeed, wealth in the ordinary sense of the word. Though he had worked hard all
his life at the business to which he belonged, he was a poorer man now than he had been thirty
years ago. It had all gone in procuring him a seat in Parliament. And he had so much sense
that he never complained. He had known what it was that he wanted, and what it was that he
must pay for it. He had paid for it, and had got it, and was, in his fashion, contented. If
he could only have continued to have it without paying for it again, how great would have been
the blessing! But he was a man who knew that such blessings were not to be expected. After
the first feeling of disgust was over on the receipt of Trigger's letter, he put his collar
to the work again, and was prepared to draw his purse,--intending, of course, that the new
candidate should bear as much as possible of this drain. He knew well that there was a prospect
before him of abject misery;--for life without Parliament would be such to him. There would
be no salt left for him in the earth if he was ousted. And yet no man could say why he should
have cared to sit in Parliament. He rarely spoke, and when he did no one listened to him. He
was anxious for no political measures. He was a favourite with no section of a party. He spent
all his evenings at the House, but it can hardly be imagined that those evenings were pleasantly
spent. But he rubbed his shoulders against the shoulders of great men, and occasionally stood
upon their staircases. At any rate, such as was the life, it was his life; and he had no time
left to choose another. He considered himself on this occasion pretty nearly sure to be elected.
He knew the borough and was sure. But then there was that accursed system of petitioning, which
according to his idea was un-English, ungentlemanlike, and unpatriotic--"A stand-up fight,
and if you're licked--take it." That was his idea of what an election should be.

Sir Thomas, who only just remembered the appearance of the man in the House, at once took an
extravagant dislike to him. It was abominable to him to be called Underwood by a man who did
not know him. It was nauseous to him to be forced into close relations with a man who seemed
to him to be rough and ill-mannered. And, judging from what he saw, he gave his colleague credit
for no good qualities. Now Mr. Griffenbottom had good qualities. He was possessed of pluck.
He was in the main good-natured. And though he could resent an offence with ferocity, he could
forgive an offence with ease. "Hit him hard, and then have an end of it!" That was Mr. Griffenbottom's
mode of dealing with the offenders and the offences with which he came in contact.

In every house they entered Griffenbottom was at home, and Sir Thomas was a stranger of whom
the inmates had barely heard the name. Griffenbottom was very good at canvassing the poorer
classes. He said not a word to them about politics, but asked them all whether they didn't
dislike that fellow Gladstone, who was one thing one day and another thing another day. "By
G----, nobody knows what he is," swore Mr. Griffenbottom over and over again. The women mostly
said that they didn't know, but they liked the blue. "Blues allays was gallanter nor the yellow,"
said one of 'em. They who expressed an opinion at all hoped that their husbands would vote
for him, "as 'd do most for 'em." "The big loaf;--that's what we want," said one mother of
many children, taking Sir Thomas by the hand. There were some who took advantage of the occasion
to pour out their tales of daily griefs into the ears of their visitors. To these Griffenbottom
was rather short and hard. "What we want, my dear, is your husband's vote and interest. We'll
hear all the rest another time." Sir Thomas would have lingered and listened; but Griffenbottom
knew that 1,400 voters had to be visited in ten days, and work as they would they could not
see 140 a day. Trigger explained it all to Sir Thomas. "You can't work above seven hours, and
you can't do twenty an hour. And much of the ground you must do twice over. If you stay to
talk to them you might as well be in London. Mr. Griffenbottom understands it so well, you'd
better keep your eye on him." There could be no object in the world on which Sir Thomas was
less desirous of keeping his eye.

The men, who were much more difficult to find than the women, had generally less to say for
themselves. Most of them understood at once what was wanted, and promised. For it must be understood
that on this their first day the conservative brigade was moving among its firm friends. In
Petticoat Yard lived paper-makers in the employment of Mr. Spiveycomb, and in Pump Lane the
majority of the inhabitants were employed by Mr. Spicer, of the mustard works. The manufactories
of both these men were visited, and there the voters were booked much quicker than at the rate
of twenty an hour. Here and there a man would hold some peculiar opinion of his own. The Permissive
Bill was asked for by an energetic teetotaller; and others, even in these Tory quarters, suggested
the ballot. But they all,--or nearly all of them,--promised their votes. Now and again some
sturdy fellow, seeming to be half ashamed of himself in opposing all those around him, would
say shortly that he meant to vote for Moggs, and pass on. "You do,--do you?" Sir Thomas heard
Mr. Spicer say to one such man. "Yes, I does," said the man. Sir Thomas heard no more, but
he felt how perilous was the position on which a candidate stood under the present law.

As regarded Sir Thomas himself, he felt, as the evening was coming on, that he had hardly done
his share of the work. Mr. Griffenbottom had canvassed, and he had walked behind. Every now
and then he had attempted a little conversation, but in that he had been immediately pulled
up by the conscientious and energetic Mr. Trigger. As for asking for votes, he hardly knew,
when he had been carried back into the main street through a labyrinth of alleys at the back
of Petticoat Yard, whether he had asked any man for his vote or not. With the booking of the
votes he had, of course, nothing to do. There were three men with books;--and three other men
to open the doors, show the way, and make suggestions on the expediency of going hither or
thither. Sir Thomas would always have been last in the procession, had there not been one silent,
civil person, whose duty it seemed to be to bring up the rear. If ever Sir Thomas lingered
behind to speak to a poor woman, there was this silent, civil person lingering too. The influence
of the silent, civil person was so strong that Sir Thomas could not linger much.

As they came into the main street they encountered the opposition party, Mr. Westmacott, Ontario
Moggs, and their supporters. "I'll introduce you," said Mr. Griffenbottom to his colleague.
"Come along. It's the thing to do." Then they met in the middle of the way. Poor Ontario was
hanging behind, but holding up his head gallantly, and endeavouring to look as though he were
equal to the occasion. Griffenbottom and Westmacott shook hands cordially, and complained with
mutual sighs that household suffrage had made the work a deal harder than ever. "And I'm only
a week up from the gout," said Griffenbottom. Then Sir Thomas and Westmacott were introduced,
and at last Ontario was brought forward. He bowed and attempted to make a little speech; but
nobody in one army or in the other seemed to care much for poor Ontario. He knew that it was
so, but that mattered little to him. If he were destined to represent Percycross in Parliament,
it must be by the free votes and unbiassed political aspirations of the honest working men
of the borough. So remembering he stood aloof, stuck his hand into his breast, and held up
his head something higher than before. Though the candidates had thus greeted each other at
this chance meeting, the other parties in the contending armies had exhibited no courtesies.

The weariness of Sir Thomas when this first day's canvass was over was so great that he was
tempted to go to bed and ask for a bowl of gruel. Nothing kept him from doing so but amazement
at the courage and endurance of Mr. Griffenbottom. "We could get at a few of those chaps who
were at the works, if we went out at eight," said Griffenbottom. Trigger suggested that Mr.
Griffenbottom would be very tired. Trigger himself was perhaps tired. "Oh, tired," said Griffenbottom;
"a man has to be tired at this work." Sir Thomas perceived that Griffenbottom was at least
ten years his senior, and that he was still almost lame from the gout. "You'll be ready, Underwood?"
said Griffenbottom. Sir Thomas felt himself bound to undertake whatever might be thought necessary.
"If we were at it day and night, it wouldn't be too much," said Griffenbottom, as he prepared
to amuse himself with one of the poll-books till dinner should be on the table. "Didn't we
see Jacob Pucky?" asked the energetic candidate, observing that the man's name wasn't marked.
"To be sure we did. I was speaking to him myself. He was one of those who didn't know till
the day came. We know what that means; eh, Honeywood?" Sir Thomas wasn't quite sure that he
did know; but he presumed that it meant something dishonest. Again Mr. Trigger dined with them,
and as soon as ever their dinner was swallowed they were out again at their work, Sir Thomas
being dragged from door to door, while Griffenbottom asked for the votes.

And this was to last yet for ten days more!

CHAPTER XXVI.

MOGGS, PURITY, AND THE RIGHTS OF LABOUR.

Mr. Trigger had hinted that Ontario Moggs would be a thorn in the flesh of Mr. Westmacott's
supporters at Percycross, and he had been right. Ontario was timid, hesitating, and not unfrequently
brow-beaten in the social part of his work at the election. Though he made great struggles
he could neither talk, nor walk, nor eat, nor sit, as though he were the equal of his colleague.
But when they came to politics and political management, there was no holding him. He would
make speeches when speeches were not held to be desirable by his committee, and he was loud
upon topics as to which it was thought that no allusion whatever should have been made. To
talk about the ballot had from the first been conceded to Moggs. Mr. Westmacott was, indeed,
opposed to the ballot; but it had been a matter of course that the candidate of the people
should support that measure. The ballot would have been a safety-valve. But Moggs was so cross-grained,
ill-conditioned, and uncontrollable that he would not let the ballot suffice him. The ballot
was almost nothing to him. Strikes and bribery were his great subjects; the beauty of the one
and the ugliness of the other. The right of the labourer to combine with his brother labourers
to make his own terms for his labour, was the great lesson he taught. The suicidal iniquity
of the labourer in selling that political power which he should use to protect his labour was
the source of his burning indignation. That labour was the salt of the earth he told the men
of Percycross very often;--and he told them as often that manliness and courage were necessary
to make that salt productive. Gradually the men of Percycross,--some said that they were only
the boys of Percycross,--clustered round him, and learned to like to listen to him. They came
to understand something of the character of the man who was almost too shame-faced to speak
to them while he was being dragged round to their homes on his canvas, but whom nothing could
repress when he was on his legs with a crowd before him. It was in vain that the managing agent
told him that he would not get a vote by his spouting and shouting. On such occasions he hardly
answered a word to the managing agent. But the spouting and shouting went on just the same,
and was certainly popular among the bootmakers and tanners. Mr. Westmacott was asked to interfere,
and did do so once in some mild fashion; but Ontario replied that having been called to this
sphere of action he could only do his duty according to his own lights. The young men's presidents,
and secretaries, and chairmen were for awhile somewhat frightened, having been assured by the
managing men of the liberal committee that the election would be lost by the furious insanity
of their candidate. But they decided upon supporting Moggs, having found that they would be
deposed from their seats if they discarded him. At last, when the futile efforts to control
Moggs had been maintained with patience for something over a week, when it still wanted four
or five days to the election, an actual split was made in the liberal camp. Moggs was turned
adrift by the Westmacottian faction. Bills were placarded about the town explaining the cruel
necessity for such action, and describing Moggs as a revolutionary firebrand. And now there
were three parties in the town. Mr. Trigger rejoiced over this greatly with Mr. Griffenbottom.
"If they haven't been and cut their throats now it is a wonder," he said over and over again.
Even Sir Thomas caught something of the feeling of triumph, and began almost to hope that he
might be successful. Nevertheless the number of men who could not quite make up their minds
as to what duty required of them till the day of the election was considerable, and Mr. Pile
triumphantly whispered into Mr. Trigger's ear his conviction that "after all, things weren't
going to be changed at Percycross quite so easily as some people supposed."

When Moggs was utterly discarded by the respectable leaders of the liberal party in the borough,--turned
out of the liberal inn at which were the head-quarters of the party, and refused the right
of participating in the liberal breakfasts and dinners which were there provided, Moggs felt
himself to be a triumphant martyr. His portmanteau and hat-box were carried by an admiring
throng down to the Cordwainers' Arms,--a house not, indeed, of the highest repute in the town,--and
here a separate committee was formed. Mr. Westmacott did his best to avert the secession; but
his supporters were inexorable. The liberal tradesmen of Percycross would have nothing to do
with a candidate who declared that inasmuch as a man's mind was more worthy than a man's money,
labour was more worthy than capital, and that therefore the men should dominate and rule their
masters. That was a doctrine necessarily abominable to every master tradesman. The men were
to decide how many hours they would work, what recreation they would have, in what fashion
and at what rate they would be paid, and what proportion of profit should be allowed to the
members, and masters, and creators of the firm! That was the doctrine that Moggs was preaching.
The tradesmen of Percycross, whether liberal or conservative, did not understand much in the
world of politics, but they did understand that such a doctrine as that, if carried out, would
take them to a very Gehenna of revolutionary desolation. And so Moggs was banished from the
Northern Star, the inn at which Mr. Westmacott was living, and was forced to set up his radical
staff at the Cordwainers' Arms.

In one respect he certainly gained much by this persecution. The record of his election doings
would have been confined to the columns of the "Percycross Herald" had he carried on his candidature
after the usual fashion; but, as it was now, his doings were blazoned in the London newspapers.
The "Daily News" reported him, and gave him an article all to himself; and even the "Times"
condescended to make an example of him, and to bring him up as evidence that revolutionary
doctrines were distasteful to the electors of the country generally. The fame of Ontario Moggs
certainly became more familiar to the ears of the world at large than it would have done had
he continued to run in a pair with Mr. Westmacott. And that was everything to him. Polly Neefit
must hear of him now that his name had become a household word in the London newspapers.

And in another respect he gained much. All personal canvassing was now at an end for him. There
could be no use in his going about from house to house asking for votes. Indeed, he had discovered
that to do so was a thing iniquitous in itself, a demoralising practice tending to falsehood,
intimidation, and corruption,--a thing to be denounced. And he denounced it. Let the men of
Percycross hear him, question him in public, learn from his spoken words what were his political
principles,--and then vote for him if they pleased. He would condescend to ask a vote as a
favour from no man. It was for them rather to ask him to bestow upon them the gift of his time
and such ability as he possessed. He took a very high tone indeed in his speeches, and was
saved the labour of parading the streets. During these days he looked down from an immeasurable
height on the truckling, mean, sordid doings of Griffenbottom, Underwood, and Westmacott. A
huge board had been hoisted up over the somewhat low frontage of the Cordwainers' Arms, and
on this was painted in letters two feet high a legend which it delighted him to read, MOGGS,
PURITY, AND THE RIGHTS OF LABOUR. Ah, if that could only be understood, there was enough in
it to bring back an age of gold to suffering humanity! No other Reform would be needed. In
that short legend everything necessary for man was contained.

Mr. Pile and Mr. Trigger stood together one evening looking at the legend from a distance.
"Moggs and purity!" said Mr. Pile, in that tone of disgust, and with that peculiar action which
had become common to him in speaking of this election.

"He hasn't a ghost of a chance," said Mr. Trigger, who was always looking straight at the main
point;--"nor yet hasn't Westmacott."

"There's worse than Westmacott," said Mr. Pile.

"But what can we do?" said Trigger.

"Purity! Purity!" said the old man. "It makes me that sick that I wish there weren't such a
thing as a member of Parliament. Purity and pickpockets is about the same. When I'm among 'em
I buttons up my breeches-pockets."

"But what can we do?" asked Mr. Trigger again, in a voice of woe. Mr. Trigger quite sympathised
with his elder friend; but, being a younger man, he knew that these innovations must be endured.

Then Mr. Pile made a speech, of such length that he had never been known to make the like before;--so
that Mr. Trigger felt that things had become very serious, and that, not impossibly, Mr. Pile
might be so affected by this election as never again to hold up his head in Percycross. "Purity!
Purity!" he repeated. "They're a going on that way, Trigger, that the country soon won't be
fit for a man to live in. And what's the meaning of it all? It's just this,--that folks wants
what they wants without paying for it. I hate Purity, I do. I hate the very smell of it. It
stinks. When I see the chaps as come here and talk of Purity, I know they mean that nothing
ain't to be as it used to be. Nobody is to trust no one. There ain't to be nothing warm, nor
friendly, nor comfortable any more. This Sir Thomas you've brought down is just as bad as that
shoemaking chap;--worse if anything. I know what's a going on inside him. I can see it. If
a man takes a glass of wine out of his bottle, he's a asking hisself if that ain't bribery
and corruption! He's got a handle to his name, and money, I suppose, and comes down here without
knowing a chick or a child. Why isn't a poor man, as can't hardly live, to have his three half-crowns
or fifteen shillings, as things may go, for voting for a stranger such as him? I'll tell you
what it is, Trigger, I've done with it. Things have come to that in the borough, that I'll
meddle and make no more." Mr. Trigger, as he listened to this eloquence, could only sigh and
shake his head. "I did think it would last my time," added Mr. Pile, almost weeping.

Moggs would steal out of the house in the early morning, look up at the big bright red letters,
and rejoice in his very heart of hearts. He had not lived in vain, when his name had been joined,
in the public view of men, with words so glorious. Purity and the Rights of Labour! "It contains
just everything," said Moggs to himself as he sat down to his modest, lonely breakfast. After
that, sitting with his hands clasped upon his brow, disdaining the use of pen and paper for
such work, he composed his speech for the evening,--a speech framed with the purpose of proving
to his hearers that Purity and the Rights of Labour combined would make them as angels upon
the earth. As for himself, Moggs, he explained in his speech,--analysing the big board which
adorned the house,--it mattered little whether they did or did not return him. But let them
be always persistent in returning on every possible occasion Purity and the Rights of Labour,
and then all other good things would follow to them. He enjoyed at any rate that supreme delight
which a man feels when he thoroughly believes his own doctrine.

But the days were very long with him. When the evening came, when his friends were relieved
from their toil, and could assemble here and there through the borough to hear him preach to
them, he was happy enough. He had certainly achieved so much that they preferred him now to
their own presidents and chairmen. There was an enthusiasm for Moggs among the labouring men
of Percycross, and he was always happy while he was addressing them. But the hours in the morning
were long, and sometimes melancholy. Though all the town was busy with these electioneering
doings, there was nothing for him to do. His rivals canvassed, consulted, roamed through the
town,--as he could see,--filching votes from him. But he, too noble for such work as that,
sat there alone in the little upstairs parlour of the Cordwainers' Arms, thinking of his speech
for the evening,--thinking, too, of Polly Neefit. And then, of a sudden, it occurred to him
that it would be good to write a letter to Polly from Percycross. Surely the fact that he was
waging this grand battle would have some effect upon her heart. So he wrote the following letter,
which reached Polly about a week after her return home from Margate.

   Cordwainers' Arms Inn, Percycross,
   14 October, 186--.

   MY DEAR POLLY,--

   I hope you won't be angry with me for writing to you. I am
   here in the midst of the turmoil of a contested election,
   and I cannot refrain from writing to tell you about it.
   Out of a full heart they say the mouth speaks, and out of
   a very full heart I am speaking to you with my pen. The
   honourable prospect of having a seat in the British House
   of Parliament, which I regard as the highest dignity that
   a Briton can enjoy, is very much to me, and fills my mind,
   and my heart, and my soul; but it all is not so much to me
   as your love, if only I could win that seat. If I could
   sit there, in your heart, and be chosen by you, not for a
   short seven years, but for life, I should be prouder and
   happier of that honour than of any other. It ought not,
   perhaps, to be so, but it is. I have to speak here to
   the people very often; but I never open my mouth without
   thinking that if I had you to hear me I could speak with
   more energy and spirit. If I could gain your love and the
   seat for this borough together, I should have done more
   then than emperor, or conqueror, or high priest ever
   accomplished.

   I don't know whether you understand much about elections.
   When I first came here I was joined with a gentleman
   who was one of the old members;--but now I stand alone,
   because he does not comprehend or sympathise with the
   advanced doctrines which it is my mission to preach to the
   people. Purity and the Rights of Labour;--those are my
   watchwords. But there are many here who hate the very name
   of Purity, and who know nothing of the Rights of Labour.
   Labour, dear Polly, is the salt of the earth; and I hope
   that some day I may have the privilege of teaching you
   that it is so. For myself I do not see why ladies should
   not understand politics as well as men; and I think that
   they ought to vote. I hope you think that women ought to
   have the franchise.

   We are to be nominated on Monday, and the election will
   take place on Tuesday. I shall be nominated and seconded
   by two electors who are working men. I would sooner
   have their support than that of the greatest magnate in
   the land. But your support would be better for me than
   anything else in the world. People here, as a rule, are
   very lukewarm about the ballot, and they seemed to know
   very little about strikes till I came among them. Without
   combination and mutual support the working people must be
   ground to powder. If I am sent to Parliament I shall feel
   it to be my duty to insist upon this doctrine in season
   and out of season,--whenever I can make my voice heard.
   But, oh Polly, if I could do it with you for my wife, my
   voice would be so much louder.

   Pray give my best respects to your father and mother. I am
   afraid I have not your father's good wishes, but perhaps
   if he saw me filling the honourable position of member of
   Parliament for Percycross he might relent. If you would
   condescend to write me one word in reply I should be
   prouder of that than of anything. I suppose I shall be
   here till Wednesday morning. If you would say but one kind
   word to me, I think that it would help me on the great
   day.

   I am, and ever shall be,
   Your most affectionate admirer,

   ONTARIO MOGGS.

Polly received this on the Monday, the day of the nomination, and though she did answer it
at once, Ontario did not get her reply till the contest was over, and that great day had done
its best and its worst for him. But Polly's letter shall be given here. To a well-bred young
lady, living in good society, the mixture of politics and love which had filled Ontario's epistle
might perhaps have been unacceptable. But Polly thought that the letter was a good letter;
and was proud of being so noticed by a young man who was standing for Parliament. She sympathised
with his enthusiasm; and thought that she should like to be taught by him that Labour was the
Salt of the Earth,--if only he were not so awkward and long, and if his hands were habitually
a little cleaner. She could not, however, take upon herself to give him any hope in that direction,
and therefore confined her answer to the Parliamentary prospects of the hour.

   DEAR MR. MOGGS,--[she wrote]--I was very much pleased
   when I heard that you were going to stand for a member of
   Parliament, and I wish with all my heart that you may be
   successful. I shall think it a very great honour indeed
   to know a member of Parliament, as I have known you for
   nearly all my life. I am sure you will do a great deal of
   good, and prevent the people from being wicked. As for
   ladies voting, I don't think I should like that myself,
   though if I had twenty votes I would give them to
   you,--because I have known you so long.

   Father and mother send their respects, and hope you will
   be successful.

   Yours truly,

   MARYANNE NEEFIT.

   Alexandra Cottage, Monday.

When Moggs received this letter he was, not unnaturally, in a state of great agitation in reference
to the contest through which he had just passed; but still he thought very much of it, and
put it in his breast, where it would lie near his heart. Ah, if only one word of warmth had
been allowed to escape from the writer, how happy could he have been. "Yes," he said scornfully,--"because
she has known me all her life!" Nevertheless, the paper which her hand had pressed, and the
letters which her fingers had formed, were placed close to his heart.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE MOONBEAM.

Ralph the heir had given his answer, and the thing was settled. He had abandoned his property
for ever, and was to be put into immediate possession of a large sum of money,--of a sum so
large that it would seem at once to make him a rich man. He knew, however, that if he should
spend this money he would be a pauper for life; and he knew also how great was his facility
for spending. There might, however, be at least a thousand a year for him and for his heirs
after him, and surely it ought to be easy for him to live upon a thousand a year.

As he thought of this he tried to make the best of it. He had at any rate rescued himself out
of the hands of Neefit, who had become intolerable to him. As for Polly, she had refused him
twice. Polly was a very sweet girl, but he could not make it matter of regret to himself that
he should have lost Polly. Had Polly been all alone in the world she would have been well enough,--but
Polly with papa and mamma Neefit must have been a mistake. It was well for him, at any rate,
that he was out of that trouble. As regarded the Neefits, it would be simply necessary that
he should pay the breeches-maker the money that he owed them, and go no more either to Conduit
Street or to Hendon.

And then what else should he do,--or leave undone? In what other direction should he be active
or inactive? He was well aware that hitherto he had utterly wasted his life. Born with glorious
prospects, he had now so dissipated them that there was nothing left for him but a quiet and
very unambitious mode of life. Of means he had sufficient, if only he could keep that sufficiency.
But he knew himself,--he feared that he knew himself too well to trust himself to keep that
which he had unless he altogether changed his manner of living. To be a hybrid at the Moonbeam
for life,--half hero and half dupe, among grooms and stable-keepers, was not satisfactory to
him. He could see and could appreciate better things, and could long for them; but he could
not attain to anything better unless he were to alter altogether his mode of life. Would it
not be well for him to get a wife? He was rid of Polly, who had been an incubus to him, and
now he could choose for himself.

He wrote to his brother Gregory, telling his brother what he had done. The writing of letters
was ever a trouble to him, and on this occasion he told his tidings in a line or two. "Dear
Greg., I have accepted my uncle's offer. It was better so. When I wrote to you before things
were different. I need not tell you that my heart is sore for the old place. Had I stuck to
it, however, I should have beggared you and disgraced myself. Yours affectionately, R. N."
That was all. What more was to be said which, in the saying, could be serviceable to any one?
The dear old place! He would never see it again. Nothing on earth should induce him to go there,
now that it could under no circumstances be his own. It would still belong to a Newton, and
he would try and take comfort in that. He might at any rate have done worse with it. He might
have squandered his interest among the Jews, and so have treated his inheritance that it must
have been sold among strangers.

He was very low in spirits for two or three days, thinking of all this. He had been with his
lawyer, and his lawyer had told him that it must yet be some weeks before the sale would be
perfected. "Now that it is done, the sooner the better," said Ralph. The lawyer told him that
if he absolutely wanted ready money for his present needs he could have it; but that otherwise
it would be better for him to wait patiently,--say for a month. He was not absolutely in want
of money, having still funds which had been supplied to him by the breeches-maker. But he could
not remain in town. Were he to remain in town, Neefit would be upon him; and, in truth, though
he was quite clear in his conscience in regard to Polly, he did not wish to have to explain
personally to Mr. Neefit that he had sold his interest in Newton Priory. The moment the money
was in his hands he would pay Mr. Neefit; and then--; why then he thought that he would be
entitled to have Mr. Neefit told that he was not at home should Mr. Neefit trouble him again.

He would marry and live somewhere very quietly;--perhaps take a small farm and keep one hunter.
His means would be sufficient for that, even with a wife and family. Yes;--that would be the
kind of life most suited for him. He would make a great change. He would be simple in his habits,
domestic, and extravagant in nothing. To hunt once a week from his own little country house
would be delightful. Who should be the mistress of that home? That of all questions was now
the most important.

The reader may remember a certain trifling incident which took place some three or four months
since on the lawn at Popham Villa. It was an incident which Clary Underwood had certainly never
forgotten. It is hardly too much to say that she thought of it every hour. She thought of it
as a great sin;--but as a sin which had been forgiven, and, though a grievous sin, as strong
evidence of that which was not sinful, and which if true would be so full of joy. Clary had
never forgotten this incident;--but Ralph had forgotten it nearly altogether. That he had accompanied
the incident by any assurance of his love, by any mention of love intended to mean anything,
he was altogether unaware. He would have been ready to swear that he had never so committed
himself. Little tender passages of course there had been. Such are common,--so he thought,--when
young ladies and young gentlemen know each other well and are fond of each other's company.
But that he owed himself to Clarissa Underwood, and that he would sin grievously against her
should he give himself to another, he had no idea. It merely occurred to him that there might
be some slight preparatory embarrassment were he to offer his hand to Mary Bonner. Yet he thought
that of all the girls in the world Mary Bonner was the one to whom he would best like to offer
it. It might indeed be possible for him to marry some young woman with money; but in his present
frame of mind he was opposed to any such effort. Hitherto things with him had been all worldly,
empty, useless, and at the same time distasteful. He was to have married Polly Neefit for her
money, and he had been wretched ever since he had entertained the idea. Love and a cottage
were, he knew, things incompatible; but the love and the cottage implied in those words were
synonymous with absolute poverty. Love with thirty thousand pounds, even though it should have
a cottage joined with it, need not be a poverty-stricken love. He was sick of the world,--of
the world such as he had made it for himself, and he would see if he could not do something
better. He would first get Mary Bonner, and then he would get the farm. He was so much delighted
with the scheme which he thus made for himself, that he went to his club and dined there pleasantly,
allowing himself a bottle of champagne as a sort of reward for having made up his mind to so
much virtue. He met a friend or two, and spent a pleasant evening, and as he walked home to
his lodgings in the evening was quite in love with his prospects. It was well for him to have
rid himself of the burden of an inheritance which might perhaps not have been his for the next
five-and-twenty years. As he undressed himself he considered whether it would be well for him
at once to throw himself at Mary Bonner's feet. There were two reasons for not doing this quite
immediately. He had been told by his lawyer that he ought to wait for some form of assent or
agreement from the Squire before he took any important step as consequent upon the new arrangement
in regard to the property, and then Sir Thomas was still among the electors at Percycross.
He wished to do everything that was proper, and would wait for the return of Sir Thomas. But
he must do something at once. To remain in his lodgings and at his club was not in accord with
that better path in life which he had chalked out for himself.

Of course he must go down to the Moonbeam. He had four horses there, and must sell at least
three of them. One hunter he intended to allow himself. There were Brag, Banker, Buff, and
Brewer; and he thought that he would keep Brag. Brag was only six years old, and might last
him for the next seven years. In the meantime he could see a little cub-hunting, and live at
the Moonbeam for a week at any rate as cheaply as he could in London. So he went down to the
Moonbeam, and put himself under the charge of Mr. Horsball.

And here he found himself in luck. Lieutenant Cox was there, and with the lieutenant a certain
Fred Pepper, who hunted habitually with the B. and B. Lieutenant Cox had soon told his little
tale. He had sold out, and had promised his family that he would go to Australia. But he intended
to "take one more winter out of himself," as he phrased it. He had made a bargain to that effect
with his governor. His debts had been paid, his commission had been sold, and he was to be
shipped for Queensland. But he was to have one more winter with the B. and B. An open, good-humoured,
shrewd youth was Lieutenant Cox, who suffered nothing from false shame, and was intelligent
enough to know that life at the rate of £1,200 a year, with £400 to spend, must come to an
end. Fred Pepper was a young man of about forty-five, who had hunted with the B. and B., and
lived at the Moonbeam from a time beyond which the memory of Mr. Horsball's present customers
went not. He was the father of the Moonbeam, Mr. Horsball himself having come there since the
days in which Fred Pepper first became familiar with its loose boxes. No one knew how he lived
or how he got his horses. He had, however, a very pretty knack of selling them, and certainly
paid Mr. Horsball regularly. He was wont to vanish in April, and would always turn up again
in October. Some people called him the dormouse. He was good-humoured, good-looking after a
horsey fashion, clever, agreeable, and quite willing to submit himself to any nickname that
could be found for him. He liked a rubber of whist, and was supposed to make something out
of bets with bad players. He rode very carefully, and was altogether averse to ostentation
and bluster in the field. But he could make a horse do anything when he wanted to sell him,
and could on an occasion give a lead as well as any man. Everybody liked him, and various things
were constantly said in his praise. He was never known to borrow a sovereign. He had been known
to lend a horse. He did not drink. He was a very safe man in the field. He did not lie outrageously
in selling his horses. He did not cheat at cards. As long as he had a drop of drink left in
his flask, he would share it with any friend. He never boasted. He was much given to chaff,
but his chaff was good-humoured. He was generous with his cigars. Such were his virtues. That
he had no adequate means of his own and that he never earned a penny, that he lived chiefly
by gambling, that he had no pursuit in life but pleasure, that he never went inside a church,
that he never gave away a shilling, that he was of no use to any human being, and that no one
could believe a word he said of himself,--these were specks upon his character. Taken as a
whole Fred Pepper was certainly very popular with the gentlemen and ladies of the B. and B.

Ralph Newton when he dropped down upon the Moonbeam was made loudly welcome. Mr. Horsball,
whose bill for £500 had been honoured at its first day of maturity, not a little, perhaps,
to his own surprise, treated Ralph almost as a hero. When Ralph made some reference to the
remainder of the money due, Mr. Horsball expressed himself as quite shocked at the allusion.
He had really had the greatest regret in asking Mr. Newton for his note of hand, and would
not have done it, had not an unforeseen circumstance called upon him suddenly to make up a
few thousands. He had felt very much obliged to Mr. Newton for his prompt kindness. There needn't
be a word about the remainder, and if Mr. Newton wanted something specially good for the next
season,--as of course he would,--Mr. Horsball had just the horse that would suit him. "You'll
about want a couple more, Mr. Newton," said Mr. Horsball.

Then Ralph told something of his plans to this Master of the Studs,--something, but not much.
He said nothing of the sale of his property, and nothing quite definite as to that one horse
with which his hunting was to be done for the future. "I'm going to turn over a new leaf, Horsball,"
he said.

"Not going to be spliced, squire?"

"Well;--I can't say that I am, but I won't say that I ain't. But I'm certainly going to make
a change which will take me away from your fatherly care."

"I'm sorry for that, squire. We think we've always taken great care of you here."

"The very best in the world;--but a man must settle down in the world some day, you know. I
want a nice bit of land, a hundred and fifty acres, or something of that sort."

"To purchase, squire?"

"I don't care whether I buy it or take it on lease. But it mustn't be in this county. I am
too well known here, and should always want to be out when I ought to be looking after the stock."

"You'll take the season out of yourself first, at any rate," said Mr. Horsball. Ralph shook
his head, but Mr. Horsball felt nearly sure of his customer for the ensuing winter. It is not
easy for a man to part with four horses, seven or eight saddles, an establishment of bridles,
horsesheets, spurs, rollers, and bandages, a pet groom, a roomful of top boots, and leather
breeches beyond the power of counting. This is a wealth which it is easy to increase, but of
which it is very difficult to get quit.

"I think I shall sell," said Ralph.

"We'll talk about that in April," said Mr. Horsball.

He went out cub-hunting three or four times, and spent the intermediate days playing dummy
whist with Fred Pepper and Cox,--who was no longer a lieutenant. Ralph felt that this was not
the sort of beginning for his better life which would have been most appropriate; but then
he hardly had an opportunity of beginning that better life quite at once. He must wait till
something more definite had been done about the property,--and, above all things, till Sir
Thomas should be back from canvassing. He did, however, so far begin his better life as to
declare that the points at whist must be low,--shilling points, with half-a-crown on the rubber.
"Quite enough for this kind of thing," said Fred Pepper. "We only want just something to do."
And Ralph, when at the end of the week he had lost only a matter of fifteen pounds, congratulated
himself on having begun his better life. Cox and Fred Pepper, who divided the trifle between
them, laughed at the bagatelle.

But before he left the Moonbeam things had assumed a shape which, when looked at all round,
was not altogether pleasant to him. Before he had been three days at the place he received
a letter from his lawyer, telling him that his uncle had given his formal assent to the purchase,
and had offered to pay the stipulated sum as soon as Ralph would be willing to receive it.
As to any further sum that might be forthcoming, a valuer should be agreed upon at once. The
actual deed of sale and transfer would be ready by the middle of November; and the lawyer advised
Ralph to postpone his acceptance of the money till that deed should have been executed. It
was evident from the letter that there was no need on his part to hurry back to town. This
letter he found waiting for him on his return one day from hunting. There had been a pretty
run, very fast, with a kill, as there will be sometimes in cub-hunting in October,--though
as a rule, of all sports, cub-hunting is the sorriest. Ralph had ridden his favourite horse
Brag, and Mr. Pepper had taken out,--just to try him,--a little animal of his that he had bought,
as he said, quite at haphazard. He knew nothing about him, and was rather afraid that he had
been done. But the little horse seemed to have a dash of pace about him, and in the evening
there was some talk of the animal. Fred Pepper thought that the little horse was faster than
Brag. Fred Pepper never praised his own horses loudly; and when Brag's merits were chaunted,
said that perhaps Ralph was right. Would Ralph throw his leg over the little horse on Friday
and try him? On the Friday Ralph did throw his leg over the little horse, and there was another
burst. Ralph was obliged to confess, as they came home together in the afternoon, that he had
never been better carried. "I can see what he is now," said Fred Pepper;--"he is one of those
little horses that one don't get every day. He's up to a stone over my weight, too." Now Ralph
and Fred Pepper each rode thirteen stone and a half.

On that day they dined together, and there was much talk as to the future prospects of the
men. Not that Fred Pepper said anything of his future prospects. No one ever presumed him to
have a prospect, or suggested to him to look for one. But Cox had been very communicative and
confidential, and Ralph had been prompted to say something of himself. Fred Pepper, though
he had no future of his own, could he pleasantly interested about the future of another, and
had quite agreed with Ralph that he ought to settle himself. The only difficulty was in deciding
the when. Cox intended to settle himself too, but Cox was quite clear as to the wisdom of taking
another season out of himself. He was prepared to prove that it would be sheer waste of time
and money not to do so. "Here I am," said Cox, "and a fellow always saves money by staying
where he is." There was a sparkle of truth in this which Ralph Newton found himself unable to deny.

"You'll never have another chance," said Pepper.

"That's another thing," said Cox. "Of course I shan't. I've turned it round every side, and
I know what I'm about. As for horses, I believe they sell better in April than they do in October.
Men know what they are then." Fred Pepper would not exactly back this opinion, but he ventured
to suggest that there was not so much difference as some men supposed.

"If you are to jump into the cold water," said Ralph, "you'd better take the plunge at once."

"I'd sooner do it in summer than winter," said Fred Pepper.

"Of course," said Cox. "If you must give up hunting, do it at the end of the season, not at
the beginning. There's a time for all things. Ring the bell, Dormouse, and we'll have another
bottle of claret before we go to dummy."

"If I stay here for the winter," said Ralph, "I should want another horse. Though I might,
perhaps, get through with four."

"Of course you might," said Pepper, who never spoilt his own market by pressing.

"I'd rather give up altogether than do it in a scratch way," said Ralph. "I've got into a fashion
of having a second horse, and I like it."

"It's the greatest luxury in the world," said Cox.

"I never tried it," said Pepper; "I'm only too happy to get one." It was admitted by all men
that Fred Pepper had the art of riding his horses without tiring them.

They played their rubber of whist and had a little hot whisky and water. On this evening Mr.
Horsball was admitted to their company and made a fourth. But he wouldn't bet. Shilling points,
he said, were quite as much as he could afford. Through the whole evening they went on talking
of the next season, of the absolute folly of giving up one thing before another was begun,
and of the merits of Fred Pepper's little horse. "A clever little animal, Mr. Pepper," said
the great man, "a very clever little animal; but I wish you wouldn't bring so many clever un's
down here, Mr. Pepper."

"Why not, Horsball?" asked Cox.

"Because he interferes with my trade," said Mr. Horsball, laughing. It was supposed, nevertheless,
that Mr. Horsball and Mr. Pepper quite understood each other. Before the evening was over,
a price had been fixed, and Ralph had bought the little horse for £130. Why shouldn't he take
another winter out of himself? He could not marry Mary Bonner and get into a farm all in a
day,--nor yet all in a month. He would go to work honestly with the view of settling himself;
but let him be as honest about it as he might, his winter's hunting would not interfere with
him. So at last he assured himself. And then he had another argument strong in his favour.
He might hunt all the winter and yet have this thirty thousand pounds,--nay, more than thirty
thousand pounds at the end of it. In fact, imprudent and foolish as had been his hunting in
all previous winters, there would not even be any imprudence in this winter's hunting. Fortified
by all these unanswerable arguments he did buy Mr. Fred Pepper's little horse.

On the next morning, the morning of the day on which he was to return to town, the arguments
did not seem to be so irresistible, and he almost regretted what he had done. It was not that
he would be ruined by another six months' fling at life. Situated as he now was so much might
be allowed to him almost without injury. But then how can a man trust in his own resolutions
before he has begun to keep them,--when, at the very moment of beginning, he throws them to
the winds for the present, postponing everything for another hour? He knew as well as any one
could tell him that he was proving himself to be unfit for that new life which he was proposing
to himself. When one man is wise and another foolish, the foolish man knows generally as well
as does the wise man in what lies wisdom and in what folly. And the temptation often is very
slight. Ralph Newton had hardly wished to buy Mr. Pepper's little horse. The balance of desire
during the whole evening had lain altogether on the other side. But there had come a moment
in which he had yielded, and that moment governed all the other minutes. We may almost say
that a man is only as strong as his weakest moment.

But he returned to London very strong in his purpose. He would keep his establishment at the
Moonbeam for this winter. He had it all laid out and planned in his mind. He would at once
pay Mr. Horsball the balance of the old debt, and count on the value of his horses to defray
the expense of the coming season. And he would, without a week's delay, make his offer to Mary
Bonner. A dim idea of some feeling of disappointment on Clary's part did cross his brain,--a
feeling which seemed to threaten some slight discomfort to himself as resulting from want of
sympathy on her part; but he must assume sufficient courage to brave this. That he would in
any degree be an evil-doer towards Clary,--that did not occur to him. Nor did it occur to him
as at all probable that Mary Bonner would refuse his offer. In these days men never expect
to be refused. It has gone forth among young men as a doctrine worthy of perfect faith, that
young ladies are all wanting to get married,--looking out for lovers with an absorbing anxiety,
and that few can dare to refuse any man who is justified in proposing to them.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE NEW HEIR COUNTS HIS CHICKENS.

The Squire was almost lost in joy when he received his son's letter, telling him that Ralph
the heir had consented to sell everything. The one great wish of his life was to be accomplished
at last! The property was to be his own, so that he might do what he liked with it, so that
he might leave it entire to his own son, so that for the remainder of his life he might enjoy
it in that community with his son which had always appeared to him to be the very summit of
human bliss. From the sweet things which he had seen he had been hitherto cut off by the record
of his own fault, and had spent the greater part of his life in the endurance of a bitter punishment.
He had been torn to pieces, too, in contemplating the modes of escape from the position in
which his father's very natural will had placed him. He might of course have married, and at
least have expected and have hoped for children. But in that there would have been misery.
His son was the one human being that was dear to him above all others, and by such a marriage
he would have ruined his son. Early in life, comparatively early, he had made up his mind that
he would not do that;--that he would save his money, and make a property for the boy he loved.
But then it had come home to him as a fact, that he could be happy in preparing no other home
for his son than this old family house of his, with all its acres, woods, and homesteads. The
acres, woods, and homesteads gave to him no delight, feeling as he did every hour of his life
that they were not his own for purposes of a real usufruct. Then by degrees he had heard of
his nephew's follies, and the idea had come upon him that he might buy his nephew out. Ralph,
his own Ralph, had told him that the idea was cruel; but he could not see the cruelty. "What
a bad man loses a good man will get," he said; "and surely it must be better for all those
who are to live by the property that a good man should be the master of it." He would not interfere,
nor would he have any power of interfering, till others would interfere were he to keep aloof.
The doings would be the doings of that spendthrift heir, and none of his. When Ralph would
tell him that he was cruel, he would turn away in wrath; but hiding his wrath, because he loved
his son. But now everything was set right, and his son had had the doing of it.

He was nearly mad with joy throughout that day as he thought of the great thing which he had
accomplished. He was alone in the house, for his son was still in London, and during the last
few months guests had been unfrequent at the Priory. But he did not wish to have anybody with
him now. He went out, roaming through the park, and realising to himself the fact that now,
at length, the very trees were his own. He gazed at one farmhouse after another, not seeking
the tenants, hardly speaking to them if he met them, but with his brain full of plans of what
should be done. He saw Gregory for a moment, but only nodded at him smiling, and passed on.
He was not in a humour just at present to tell his happiness to any one. He walked all round
Darvell's premises, the desolate, half-ruined house of Brumbys, telling himself that very shortly
it should be desolate and half-ruined no longer. Then he crossed into the lane, and stood with
his eyes fixed upon Brownriggs,--Walker's farm, the pearl of all the farms in those parts,
the land with which he thought he could have parted so easily when the question before him
was that of becoming in truth the owner of any portion of the estate. But now, every acre was
ten times dearer to him than it had been then. He would never part with Brownriggs. He would
even save Ingram's farm, in Twining, if it might possibly be saved. He had not known before
how dear to him could be every bank, every tree, every sod. Yes;--now in very truth he was
lord and master of the property which had belonged to his father, and his father's fathers
before him. He would borrow money, and save it during his lifetime. He would do anything rather
than part with an acre of it, now that the acres were his own to leave behind him to his son.

On the following day Ralph arrived. We must no longer call him Ralph who was not the heir.
He would be heir to everything from the day that the contract was completed! The Squire, though
he longed to see the young man as he had never longed before, would not go to the station to
meet the welcome one. His irrepressible joy was too great to be exhibited before strangers.
He remained at home, in his own room, desiring that Mr. Ralph might come to him there. He would
not even show himself in the hall. And yet when Ralph entered the room he was very calm. There
was a bright light in his eyes, but at first he spoke hardly a word. "So, you've managed that
little job," he said, as he took his son's hand.

"I managed nothing, sir," said Ralph, smiling.

"Didn't you? I thought you had managed a good deal. It is done, anyway."

"Yes, sir, it's done. At least, I suppose so." Ralph, after sending his telegram, had of course
written to his father, giving him full particulars of the manner in which the arrangement had
been made.

"You don't mean that there is any doubt," said the Squire with almost an anxious tone.

"Not at all, as far as I know. The lawyers seem to think that it is all right. Ralph is quite
in earnest."

"He must be in earnest," said the Squire.

"He has behaved uncommonly well," said the namesake. "So well that I think you owe him much.
We were quite mistaken in supposing that he wanted to drive a sharp bargain." He himself had
never so supposed, but he found this to be the best way of speaking of that matter to his father.

"I will forgive him everything now," said the Squire, "and will do anything that I can to help
him."

Ralph said many things in praise of his namesake. He still almost regretted what had been done.
At any rate he could see the pity of it. It was that other Ralph who should have been looked
to as the future proprietor of Newton Priory, and not he, who was hardly entitled to call himself
a Newton. It would have been more consistent with the English order of things that it should
be so. And then there was so much to say in favour of this young man who had lost it all, and
so little to say against him! And it almost seemed to him for whose sake the purchase was being
made, that advantage,--an unscrupulous if not an unfair advantage,--was being taken of the
purchaser. He could not say all this to his father; but he spoke of Ralph in such a way as
to make his father understand what he thought. "He is such a pleasant fellow," said Ralph,
who was now the heir.

"Let us have him down here as soon as the thing is settled."

"Ah;--I don't think he'll come now. Of course he's wretched enough about it. It is not wonderful
that he should have hesitated at parting with it."

"Perhaps not," said the Squire, who was willing to forgive past sins; "but of course there
was no help for it."

"That was what he didn't feel so sure about when he declined your first offer. It was not that
he objected to the price. As to the price he says that of course he can say nothing about it.
When I told him that you were willing to raise your offer, he declared that he would take nothing
in that fashion. If those who understood the matter said that more was coming to him, he supposed
that he would get it. According to my ideas he behaved very well, sir."

In this there was something that almost amounted to an accusation against the Squire. At least
so the Squire felt it; and the feeling for the moment robbed him of something of his triumph.
According to his own view there was no need for pity. It was plain that to his son the whole
affair was pitiful. But he could not scold his son;--at any rate not now. "I feel this, Ralph,"
he said;--"that from this moment everybody connected with the property, every tenant on it
and every labourer, will be better off than they were a month ago. I may have been to blame.
I say nothing about that. But I do say that in all cases it is well that a property should
go to the natural heir of the life-tenant. Of course it has been my fault," he added after
a pause; "but I do feel now that I have in a great measure remedied the evil which I did."
The tone now had become too serious to admit of further argument. Ralph, feeling that this
was so, pressed his father's hand and then left him. "Gregory is coming across to dinner,"
said the Squire as Ralph was closing the door behind him.

At that time Gregory had received no intimation of what had been done in London, his brother's
note not reaching him till the following morning. Ralph met him before the Squire came down,
and the news was soon told. "It is all settled," said Ralph, with a sigh.

"Well?"

"Your brother has agreed to sell."

"No!"

"I have almost more pain than pleasure in it myself, because I know it will make you unhappy."

"He was so confident when he wrote to me!"

"Yes;--but he explained all that. He had hoped then that he could have saved it. But the manner
of saving it would have been worse than the loss. He will tell you everything, no doubt. No
man could have behaved better." As it happened, there was still some little space of time before
the Squire joined them,--a period perhaps of five minutes. But the parson spoke hardly a word.
The news which he now heard confounded him. He had been quite sure that his brother had been
in earnest, and that his uncle would fail. And then, though he loved the one Ralph nearly as
well as he did the other,--though he must have known that Ralph the base-born was in all respects
a better man than his own brother, more of a man than the legitimate heir,--still to his feelings
that legitimacy was everything. He too was a Newton of Newton; but it may be truly said of
him that there was nothing selfish in his feelings. To be the younger brother of Newton of
Newton, and parson of the parish which bore the same name as themselves, was sufficient for
his ambition. But things would be terribly astray now that the right heir was extruded. Ralph,
this Ralph whom he loved so well, could not be the right Newton to own the property. The world
would not so regard him. The tenants would not so think of him. The county would not so repute
him. To the thinking of parson Gregory, a great misfortune had been consummated. As soon as
he had realised it, he was silent and could speak no more.

Nor did Ralph say a word. Not to triumph in what had been done on his behalf,--or at least
not to seem to triumph,--that was the lesson which he had taught himself. He fully sympathised
with Gregory; and therefore he stood silent and sad by his side. That there must have been
some triumph in his heart it is impossible not to imagine. It could not be but that he should
be alive to the glory of being the undoubted heir to Newton Priory. And he understood well
that his birth would interfere but little now with his position. Should he choose to marry,
as he would choose, it would of course be necessary that he should explain his birth; but it
was not likely, he thought, that he should seek a wife among those who would reject him, with
all his other advantages, because he had no just title to his father's name. That he should
take joy in what had been done on his behalf was only natural; but as he stood with Gregory,
waiting for his father to come to them, he showed no sign of joy. At last the Squire came.
There certainly was triumph in his eye, but he did not speak triumphantly. It was impossible
that some word should not be spoken between them as to the disposition of the property. "I
suppose Ralph has told you," he said, "what he has done up in London?"

"Yes;--he has told me," said Gregory.

"I hope there will now be an end of all family ill-feeling among us," said the uncle. "Your
brother shall be as welcome at the old place as I trust you have always found yourself. If
he likes to bring his horses here, we shall be delighted."

The parson muttered something as to the kindness with which he had ever been treated, but what
he said was said with an ill grace. He was almost broken-hearted, and thoroughly wished himself
back in his own solitude. The Squire saw it all, and did not press him to talk;--said not a
word more of his purchase, and tried to create some little interest about parish matters;--asked
after the new building in the chancel, and was gracious about this old man and that young woman.
But Gregory could not recover himself,--could not recall his old interests, or so far act a
part as to make it seem that he was not thinking of the misfortune which had fallen upon the
family. In every look of his eyes and every tone of his voice he was telling the son that he
was a bastard, and the father that he was destroying the inheritance of the family. But yet
they bore with him, and endeavoured to win him back to pleasantness. Soon after the cloth was
taken away he took his leave. He had work to do at home, he said, and must go. His uncle went
out with him into the hall, leaving Ralph alone in the parlour. "It will be for the best in
the long run," said the Squire, with his hand on his nephew's shoulder.

"Perhaps it may, sir. I am not pretending to say. Good night." As he walked home across the
park, through the old trees which he had known since he was an infant, he told himself that
it could not be for the best that the property should be sent adrift, out of the proper line.
The only thing to be desired now was that neither he nor his brother should have a child, and
that there should no longer be a proper line.

The Squire's joy was too deep and well founded to be in any way damped by poor Gregory's ill-humour,
and was too closely present to him for him to be capable of restraining it. Why should he restrain
himself before his son? "I am sorry for Greg," he said, "because he has old-fashioned ideas.
But of course it will be for the best. His brother would have squandered every acre of it."
To this Ralph made no answer. It might probably have been as his father said. It was perhaps
best for all who lived in and by the estate that he should be the heir. And gradually the feeling
of exultation in his own position was growing upon him. It was natural that it should do so.
He knew himself to be capable of filling with credit, and with advantage to all around him,
the great place which was now assigned to him, and it was impossible that he should not be
exultant. And he owed it to his father to show him that he appreciated all that had been done
for him. "I think he ought to have the £35,000 at least," said the Squire.

"Certainly," said Ralph.

"I think so. As for the bulk sum, I have already written to Carey about that. No time ought
to be lost. There is no knowing what might happen. He might die."

"He doesn't look like dying, sir."

"He might break his neck out hunting. There is no knowing. At any rate there should be no delay.
From what I am told I don't think that with the timber and all they'll make it come to another
£5,000; but he shall have that. As he has behaved well, I'll show him that I can behave well
too. I've half a mind to go up to London, and stay till it's all through."

"You'd only worry yourself."

"I should worry myself, no doubt. And do you know, I love the place so much better than I did,
that I can hardly bear to tear myself away from it. The first mark of my handiwork, now that
I can work, shall be put upon Darvell's farm. I'll have the old place about his ears before
I am a day older."

"You'll not get it through before winter."

"Yes, I will. If it costs me an extra £50 I shan't begrudge it. It shall be a sort of memorial
building, a farmhouse of thanksgiving. I'll make it as snug a place as there is about the property.
It has made me wretched for these two years."

"I hope all that kind of wretchedness will be over now."

"Thank God;--yes. I was looking at Brownriggs to-day,--and Ingram's. I don't think we'll sell
either. I have a plan, and I think we can pull through without it. It is so much easier to
sell than to buy."

"You'd be more comfortable if you sold one of them."

"Of course I must borrow a few thousands;--but why not? I doubt whether at this moment there's
a property in all Hampshire so free as this. I have always lived on less than the income, and
I can continue to do so easier than before. You are provided for now, old fellow."

"Yes, indeed;--and why should you pinch yourself?"

"I shan't be pinched. I haven't got a score of women about me, as you'll have before long.
There's nothing in the world like having a wife. I am quite sure of that. But if you want to
save money, the way to do it is not to have a nursery. You'll marry, of course, now?"

"I suppose I shall some day."

"The sooner the better. Take my word for it."

"Perhaps you'd alter your opinion if I came upon you before Christmas for your sanction."

"No, by Jove; that I shouldn't. I should be delighted. You don't mean to say you've got anybody
in your eye. There's only one thing I ask, Ralph;--open out-and-out confidence."

"You shall have it, sir."

"There is somebody, then."

"Well; no; there isn't anybody. It would be impudence in me to say there was."

"Then I know there is." Upon this encouragement Ralph told his father that on his two last
visits to London he had seen a girl whom he thought that he would like to ask to be his wife.
He had been at Fulham on three or four occasions,--it was so he put it, but his visits had,
in truth, been only three,--and he thought that this niece of Sir Thomas Underwood possessed
every charm that a woman need possess,--"except money," said Ralph. "She has no fortune, if
you care about that."

"I don't care about money," said the Squire. "It is for the man to have that;--at any rate
for one so circumstanced as you." The end of all this was that Ralph was authorised to please
himself. If he really felt that he liked Miss Bonner well enough, he might ask her to be his
wife to-morrow.

"The difficulty is to get at her," said Ralph.

"Ask the uncle for his permission. That's the manliest and the fittest way to do it. Tell him
everything. Take my word for it he won't turn his face against you. As for me, nothing on earth
would make me so happy as to see your children. If there were a dozen, I would not think them
one too many. But mark you this, Ralph; it will be easier for us,--for you and me, if I live,--and
for you without me if I go, to make all things clear and square and free while the bairns are
little, than when they have to go to school and college, or perhaps want to get married."

"Ain't we counting our chickens before they are hatched?" said Ralph laughing.

When they parted for the night, which they did not do till after the Squire had slept for an
hour on his chair, there was one other speech made,--a speech which Ralph was likely to remember
to the latest day of his life. His father had taken his candlestick in his right hand, and
had laid his left upon his son's collar. "Ralph," said he, "for the first time in my life I
can look you in the face, and not feel a pang of remorse. You will understand it when you have
a son of your own. Good-night, my boy." Then he hurried off without waiting to hear a word,
if there was any word that Ralph could have spoken.

On the next morning they were both out early at Darvell's farm, surrounded by bricklayers and
carpenters, and before the week was over the work was in progress. Poor Darvell, half elated
and half troubled, knew but little of the cause of this new vehemence. Something we suppose
he did know, for the news was soon spread over the estate that the Squire had bought out Mr.
Ralph, and that this other Mr. Ralph was now to be Mr. Ralph the heir. That the old butler
should not be told,--the butler who had lived in the house when the present Squire was a boy,--was
out of the question; and though the communication had been made in confidence, the confidence
was not hermetical. The Squire after all was glad that it should be so. The thing had to be
made known,--and why not after this fashion? Among the labourers and poor there was no doubt
as to the joy felt. That other Mr. Ralph, who had always been up in town, was unknown to them,
and this Mr. Ralph had ever been popular with them all. With the tenants the feeling was perhaps
more doubtful. "I wish you joy, Mr. Newton, with all my heart," said Mr. Walker, who was the
richest and the most intelligent among them. "The Squire has worked for you like a man, and
I hope it will come to good."

"I will do my best," said Ralph.

"I am sure you will. There will be a feeling, you know. You mustn't be angry at that."

"I understand," said Ralph.

"You won't be vexed with me for just saying so." Ralph promised that he would not be vexed,
but he thought very much of what Mr. Walker had said to him. After all, such a property as
Newton does not in England belong altogether to the owner of it. Those who live upon it, and
are closely concerned in it with reference to all that they have in the world, have a part
property in it. They make it what it is, and will not make it what it should be, unless in
their hearts they are proud of it. "You know he can't be the real squire," said one old farmer
to Mr. Walker. "They may hugger-mugger it this way and that; but this Mr. Ralph can't be like
t'other young gentleman."

Nevertheless the Squire himself was very happy. These things were not said to him, and he had
been successful. He took an interest in all things keener than he had felt for years past.
One day he was in the stables with his son, and spoke about the hunting for the coming season.
He had an Irish horse of which he was proud, an old hunter that had carried him for the last
seven years, and of which he had often declared that under no consideration would he part with
it. "Dear old fellow," he said, putting his hand on the animal's neck, "you shall work for
your bread one other winter, and then you shall give over for the rest of your life."

"I never saw him look better," said Ralph.

"He's like his master;--not quite so young as he was once. He never made a mistake yet that
I know of."

Ralph when he saw how full of joy was his father, could not but rejoice also that the thing
so ardently desired had been at last accomplished.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE ELECTION.

The day of the nomination at Percycross came at last, and it was manifest to everybody that
there was a very unpleasant feeling in the town. It was not only that party was arrayed against
party. That would have been a state of things not held to be undesirable, and at any rate would
have been natural. But at present things were so divided that there was no saying which were
the existing parties. Moggs was separated from Westmacott quite as absolutely as was Westmacott
from the two Conservative candidates. The old Liberals of the borough were full of ridicule
for poor Moggs, of whom all absurd stories were told by them both publicly and privately. But
still he was there, the darling of the workmen. It was, indeed, asserted by the members of
Mr. Westmacott's committee that Moggs's popularity would secure for him but very few votes.
A great proportion of the working men of Percycross were freemen of the borough,--old voters
who were on the register by right of their birth and family connection in the place, independent
of householdership and rates,--and quite accustomed to the old ways of manipulation. The younger
of these men might be seduced into listening to Moggs. The excitement was pleasant to them.
But they were too well trained to be led away on the day of election. Moggs would give them
no beer, and they had always been accustomed to their three half-crowns a head in consideration
for the day's work. Not a dozen freemen of the borough would vote for Moggs. So said Mr. Kirkham,
Mr. Westmacott's managing man, and no man knew the borough quite so well as did Mr. Kirkham.
"They'll fight for him at the hustings," said Mr. Kirkham; "but they'll take their beer and
their money, and they'll vote for us and Griffenbottom."

This might be true enough as regarded the freemen,--the men who had been, as it were, educated
to political life;--but there was much doubt as to the new voters. There were about a thousand
of these in the borough, and it had certainly not been the intention of either party that these
men should have the half-crowns. It was from these men and their leaders,--the secretaries
and chairmen and presidents,--that had come the cry for a second liberal candidate, and the
consequent necessity of putting forward two Conservatives. They were equally odious to the
supporters of Westmacott and of Griffenbottom. "They must have the half-crowns," Trigger had
said to old Pile, the bootmaker. Pile thought that every working man was entitled to the three
half-crowns, and said as much very clearly. "I suppose old Griff ain't going to turn Hunks
at this time o' day," said Mr. Pile. But the difficulties were endless, and were much better
understood by Mr. Trigger than by Mr. Pile. The manner of conveying the half-crowns to the
three hundred and twenty-four freemen, who would take them and vote honestly afterwards for
Griffenbottom and Underwood, was perfectly well understood. But among that godless, riotous,
ungoverned and ungovernable set of new householders, there was no knowing how to act. They
would take the money and then vote wrong. They would take the money and then split. The freemen
were known. Three hundred and twenty-four would take Griffenbottom's beer and half-crowns.
Two hundred and seventy-two would be equally complaisant with Mr. Westmacott. But of these
householders nothing was known. They could not be handled. Some thirty or forty of them would
probably have the turning of the election at the last hour, must then be paid at their own
prices, and after that would not be safe! Mr. Trigger, in his disgust, declared that things
had got into so vile a form that he didn't care if he never had anything to do with an election
in Percycross again.

And then there was almost as much ill-feeling between the old-fashioned Griffenbottomites and
the Underwooders as there was between Westmacott's Liberals and Moggs's Radicals. The two gentlemen
themselves still eat their breakfasts and dinners together, and still paraded the streets of
Percycross in each other's company. But Sir Thomas had made himself very odious even to Mr.
Griffenbottom himself. He was always protesting against beer which he did see, and bribery
which he did not see but did suspect. He swore that he would pay not a shilling, as to which
the cause of the expenditure was not explained to him. Griffenbottom snarled at him, and expressed
an opinion that Sir Thomas would of course do the same as any other gentleman. Mr. Trigger,
with much dignity in his mien as he spoke, declared that the discussion of any such matter
at the present moment was indecorous. Mr. Pile was for sending Sir Thomas back to town, and
very strongly advocated that measure. Mr. Spicer, as to whom there was a story abroad in the
borough in respect of a large order for mustard, supposed to have reached him from New York
through Liverpool by the influence of Sir Thomas Underwood, thought that the borough should
return the two conservative candidates. Sir Thomas might be a little indiscreet; but, upon
the whole, his principles did him honour. So thought Mr. Spicer, who, perhaps, believed that
the order for the mustard was coming. We need hardly say that the story, at any rate in so
far as it regarded Sir Thomas Underwood, was altogether untrue. "Yes; principles!" said Mr.
Pile. "I think we all know Sam Spicer's principles. All for hisself, and nothing for a poor
man. That's Sam Spicer." Of Mr. Pile, it must be acknowledged that he was not a pure-minded
politician. He loved bribery in his very heart. But it is equally true that he did not want
to be bribed himself. It was the old-fashioned privilege of a poor man to receive some small
consideration for his vote in Percycross, and Mr. Pile could not endure to think that the poor
man should be robbed of his little comforts.

In the meantime, Sir Thomas himself was in a state of great misery. From hour to hour he was
fluctuating between a desire to run away from the accursed borough, and the shame of taking
such a step. The desire for the seat which had brought him to Percycross had almost died out
amidst the misery of his position. Among all the men of his party with whom he was associating,
there was not one whom he did not dislike, and by whom he was not snubbed and contradicted.
Griffenbottom, who went through his canvass under circumstances of coming gout and colchicum
with a courage and pertinacity that were heroic, was painfully cross to every one who was not
a voter. "What's the use of all that d----d nonsense, now?" he said to Sir Thomas the evening
before the nomination day. There were half-a-dozen leading Conservatives in the room, and Sir
Thomas was making a final protest against bribery. He rose from his chair when so addressed,
and left the room. Never in his life before had he been so insulted. Trigger followed him to
his bedroom, knowing well that a quarrel at this moment would be absolutely suicidal. "It's
the gout, Sir Thomas," said Mr. Trigger. "Do remember what he's going through." This was so
true that Sir Thomas returned to the room. It was almost impossible not to forgive anything
in a man who was suffering agonies, but could still wheedle a voter. There were three conservative
doctors with Mr. Griffenbottom, each of them twice daily; and there was an opinion prevalent
through the borough that the gout would be in his stomach before the election was over. Sir
Thomas did return to the room, and sat himself down without saying a word. "Sir Thomas," said
Mr. Griffenbottom, "a man with the gout is always allowed a little liberty."

"I admit the claim," said Sir Thomas, bowing.

"And believe me, I know this game better than you do. It's of no use saying these things. No
man should ever foul his own nest. Give me a little drop more brandy, Trigger, and then I'll
get myself to bed." When he was gone, they all sang Griffenbottom's praises. In staunch pluck,
good humour, and manly fighting, no man was his superior. "Give and take,--the English bull-dog
all over. I do like old Griffenbottom," said Spiveycomb, the paper-maker.

On the day of nomination Griffenbottom was carried up on the hustings. This carrying did him
good in the borough; but it should be acknowledged on his behalf that he did his best to walk.
In the extreme agony of his attack he had to make his speech, and he made it. The hustings
stood in the market-square, and straight in front of the wooden erection, standing at right
angles to it, was a stout rail dividing the space for the distance of fifty or sixty yards,
so that the supporters of one set of candidates might congregate on one side, and the supporters
of the other candidates on the other side. In this way would the weaker part, whichever might
be the weaker, be protected from the violence of the stronger. On the present occasion it seemed
that the friends of Mr. Westmacott congregated with the Conservatives. Moggs's allies alone
filled one side of the partition. There were a great many speeches made that day from the hustings,--thirteen
in all. First the mayor, and then the four proposers and four seconders of the candidates.
During these performances, though there was so much noise from the crowd below that not a word
could be heard, there was no violence. When old Griffenbottom got up, supporting himself by
an arm round one of the posts, he was loudly cheered from both sides. His personal popularity
in the borough was undoubted, and his gout made him almost a demi-god. Nobody heard a word
that he said; but then he had no desire to be heard. To be seen standing up there, a martyr
to the gout, but still shouting for Percycross, was enough for his purpose. Sir Thomas encountered
a very different reception. He was received with yells, apparently from the whole crowd. What
he said was of no matter, as not a word was audible; but he did continue to inveigh against
bribery. Before he had ceased a huge stone was thrown at him, and hit him heavily on the arm.
He continued speaking, however, and did not himself know till afterwards that his arm was broken
between the shoulder and the elbow. Mr. Westmacott was very short and good-humoured. He intended
to be funny about poor Moggs;--and perhaps was funny. But his fun was of no avail. The Moggite
crowd had determined that no men should be heard till their own candidate should open his mouth.

At last Ontario's turn had come. At first the roar from the crowd was so great that it seemed
that it was to be with him as it had been with the others. But by degrees, though there was
still a roar,--as of the sea,--Moggs's words became audible. The voices of assent and dissent
are very different, even though they be equally loud. Men desirous of interrupting, do interrupt.
But cheers, though they be continuous and loud as thunder, are compatible with a hearing. Moggs
by this time, too, had learned to pitch his voice for an out-of-door multitude. He preached
his sermon, his old sermon, about the Rights of Labour and the Salt of the Earth, the Tyranny
of Capital and the Majesty of the Workmen, with an enthusiasm that made him for the moment
supremely happy. He was certainly the hero of the tour in Percycross, and he allowed himself
to believe,--just for that hour,--that he was about to become the hero of a new doctrine throughout
England. He spoke for over half an hour, while poor Griffenbottom, seated in a chair that had
been brought to him, was suffering almost the pains of hell. During this speech Sir Thomas,
who had also suffered greatly, but had at first endeavoured to conceal that he was suffering,
discovered the extent of his misfortune, and allowed himself to be taken out from the hustings
to his inn. There was an effort made to induce Mr. Griffenbottom to retire at the same time;
but Mr. Griffenbottom, not quite understanding the extent of his colleague's misfortune, and
thinking that it became him to remain and to endure, was obdurate, and would not be moved.
He did not care for stones or threats,--did not care even for the gout. That was his place
till after the show of hands, and there he would remain. The populace, seeing this commotion
on the hustings, began to fear that there was an intention to stop the oratory of their popular
candidate, and called loudly upon Moggs to go on. Moggs did go on,--and was happy.

At last there came the show of hands. It was declared to be in favour of Moggs and Westmacott.
That it was very much in favour of Moggs,--in favour of Moggs by five to one, there was no
doubt. Among the other candidates there was not perhaps much to choose. A poll was, of course,
demanded for the two Conservatives; and then the mayor, complimenting the people on their good
behaviour,--in spite of poor Sir Thomas's broken arm,--begged them to go away. That was all
very well. Of course they would go away; but not till they had driven their enemies from the
field. In half a minute the dividing rail,--the rail that had divided the blue from the yellow,--was
down, and all those who had dared to show themselves there as supporters of Griffenbottom and
Underwood were driven ignominiously from the market-place. They fled at all corners, and in
a few seconds not a streak of blue ribbon was to be seen in the square. "They'll elect that
fellow Moggs to-morrow," said Mr. Westmacott to Kirkham.

"No a bit of it," said Kirkham. "I could spot all the ringleaders in the row. Nine or ten of
them are Griffenbottom's old men. They take his money regularly,--get something nearly every
year, join the rads at the nomination, and vote for the squire at the poll. The chaps who hollow
and throw stones always vote t'other side up."

Mr. Griffenbottom kept his seat till he could be carried home in safety through the town, and
was then put to bed. The three conservative doctors, who had all been setting Sir Thomas's
arm, sat in consultation upon their old friend; and it was acknowledged on every side that
Mr. Griffenbottom was very ill indeed. All manner of rumours went through the town that night.
Some believed that both Griffenbottom and Sir Thomas were dead,--and that the mayor had now
no choice but to declare Moggs and Westmacott elected. Then there arose a suspicion that the
polls would be kept open on the morrow on behalf of two defunct candidates, so that a further
election on behalf of the conservative party might be ensured. Men swore that they would break
into the bedrooms of the Standard Inn, in order that they might satisfy themselves whether
the two gentlemen were alive or dead. And so the town was in a hubbub.

On that evening Moggs was called upon again to address his friends at the Mechanics' Institute,
and to listen to the speeches of all the presidents and secretaries and chairmen; but by ten
o'clock he was alone in his bedroom at the Cordwainers' Arms. Down-stairs men were shouting,
singing, and drinking,--shouting in his honour, though not drinking at his expense. He was
alone in his little comfortless room, but felt it to be impossible that he should lie down
and rest. His heart was swelling with the emotions of the day, and his mind was full of his
coming triumph. It was black night, and there was a soft drizzling rain;--but it was absolutely
necessary for his condition that he should go out. It seemed to him that his very bosom would
burst, if he confined himself in that narrow space. His thoughts were too big for so small
a closet. He crept downstairs and out, through the narrow passage, into the night. Then, by
the light of the solitary lamp that stood before the door of the public-house, he could still
see those glorious words, "Moggs, Purity, and the Rights of Labour." Noble words, which had
sufficed to bind to him the whole population of that generous-hearted borough! Purity and the
Rights of Labour! Might it not be that with that cry, well cried, he might move the very world!
As he walked the streets of the town he felt a great love for the borough grow within his bosom.
What would he not owe to the dear place which had first recognised his worth, and had enabled
him thus early in life to seize hold of those ploughshares which it would be his destiny to
hold for all his coming years? He had before him a career such as had graced the lives of the
men whom he had most loved and admired,--of men who had dared to be independent, patriotic,
and philanthropical, through all the temptations of political life. Would he be too vain if
he thought to rival a Hume or a Cobden? Conceit, he said to himself, will seek to justify itself.
Who can rise but those who believe their wings strong enough for soaring? There might be shipwreck
of course,--but he believed that he now saw his way. As to the difficulty of speaking in public,--that
he had altogether overcome. Some further education as to facts, historical and political, might
be necessary. That he acknowledged to himself;--but he would not spare himself in his efforts
to acquire such education. He went pacing through the damp, muddy, dark streets, making speeches
that were deliciously eloquent to his own ears. That night he was certainly the happiest man
in Percycross, never doubting his success on the morrow,--not questioning that. Had not the
whole town greeted him with loudest acclamation as their chosen member? He was deliciously
happy;--while poor Sir Thomas was suffering the double pain of his broken arm and his dissipated
hopes, and Griffenbottom was lying in his bed, with a doctor on one side and a nurse on the
other, hardly able to restrain himself from cursing all the world in his agony.

At a little after eleven a tall man, buttoned up to his chin in an old great coat, called at
the Percy Standard, and asked after the health of Mr. Griffenbottom and Sir Thomas. "They ain't
neither of them very well then," replied the waiter. "Will you say that Mr. Moggs called to
inquire, with his compliments," said the tall man. The respect shown to him was immediately
visible. Even the waiter at the Percy Standard acknowledged that for that day Mr. Moggs must
be treated as a great man in Percycross. After that Moggs walked home and crept into bed;--but
it may be doubted whether he slept a wink that night.

And then there came the real day,--the day of the election. It was a foul, rainy, muddy, sloppy
morning, without a glimmer of sun, with that thick, pervading, melancholy atmosphere which
forces for the time upon imaginative men a conviction that nothing is worth anything. Griffenbottom
was in bed in one room at the Percy Standard, and Underwood in the next. The three conservative
doctors moving from one chamber to another, watching each other closely, and hardly leaving
the hotel, had a good time of it. Mr. Trigger had already remarked that in one respect the
breaking of Sir Thomas's arm was lucky, because now there would be no difficulty as to paying
the doctors out of the common fund. Every half-hour the state of the poll was brought to them.
Early in the morning Moggs had been in the ascendant. At half-past nine the numbers were as
follows:--

   Moggs          193
   Westmacott     172
   Griffenbottom  162
   Underwood      147

At ten, and at half-past ten, Moggs was equally in advance, but Westmacott had somewhat receded.
At noon the numbers were considerably altered, and were as follows:--

   Griffenbottom  892
   Moggs          777
   Westmacott     752
   Underwood      678

These at least were the numbers as they came from the conservative books. Westmacott was placed
nearer to Moggs by his own tellers. For Moggs no special books were kept. He was content to
abide by the official counting.

Griffenbottom was consulted privately by Trigger and Mr. Spiveycomb as to what steps should
be taken in this emergency. It was suggested in a whisper that Underwood should be thrown over
altogether. There would be no beating Moggs,--so thought Mr. Spiveycomb,--and unless an effort
were made it might be possible that Westmacott would creep up. Trigger in his heart considered
that it would be impossible to get enough men at three half-crowns a piece to bring Sir Thomas
up to a winning condition. But Griffenbottom, now that the fight was forward, was unwilling
to give way a foot. "We haven't polled half the voters," said he.

"More than half what we shall poll," answered Trigger.

"They always hang back," growled Griffenbottom. "Fight it out. I don't believe they'll ever
elect a shoemaker here." The order was given, and it was fought out.

Moggs, early in the morning, had been radiant with triumph, when he saw his name at the head
of the lists displayed from the two inimical committee rooms. As he walked the streets, with
a chairman on one side of him and a president on the other, it seemed as though his feet almost
disdained to touch the mud. These were two happy hours, during which he did not allow himself
to doubt of his triumph. When the presidents and the chairmen spoke to him, he could hardly
answer them, so rapt was he in contemplation of his coming greatness. His very soul was full
of his seat in Parliament! But when Griffenbottom approached him on the lists, and then passed
him, there came a shadow upon his brow. He still felt sure of his election, but he would lose
that grand place at the top of the poll to which he had taught himself to look so proudly.
Soon after noon a cruel speech was made to him. "We've about pumped our side dry," said a secretary
of a Young Men's Association.

"Do you mean we've polled all our friends?" asked Moggs.

"Pretty nearly, Mr. Moggs. You see our men have nothing to wait for, and they came up early."
Then Ontario's heart sank within him, and he began to think of the shop in Bond Street.

The work of that afternoon in Percycross proved how correct Mr. Griffenbottom had been in his
judgment. He kept his place at the top of the poll. It was soon evident that that could not
be shaken. Then Westmacott passed by Moggs, and in the next half-hour Sir Thomas did so also.
This was at two, when Ontario betook himself to the privacy of his bedroom at the Cordwainers'
Arms. His pluck left him altogether, and he found himself unable to face the town as a losing
candidate. Then for two hours there was a terrible struggle between Westmacott and Underwood,
during which things were done in the desperation of the moment, as to which it might be so
difficult to give an account, should any subsequent account be required. We all know how hard
it is to sacrifice the power of winning, when during the heat of the contest the power of winning
is within our reach. At four o'clock the state of the poll was as follows:--

   Griffenbottom  1402
   Underwood      1007
   Westmacott      984
   Moggs           821

When the chairmen and presidents waited upon Moggs, telling him of the final result, and informing
him that he must come to the hustings and make a speech, they endeavoured to console him by
an assurance that he, and he alone, had fought the fight fairly. "They'll both be unseated,
you know, as sure as eggs," said the president. "It can't be otherwise. They've been busy up
in a little room in Petticoat Court all the afternoon, and the men have been getting as much
as fifteen shillings a head!" Moggs was not consoled, but he did make his speech. It was poor
and vapid;--but still there was just enough of manhood left in him for that. As soon as his
speech had been spoken he escaped up to London by the night mail train. Westmacott also spoke;
but announcement was made on behalf of the members of the borough that they were, both of them,
in their beds.

CHAPTER XXX.

"MISS MARY IS IN LUCK."

The election took place on a Tuesday,--Tuesday, the 17th of October. On the following day one
of the members received a visit in his bedroom at the Percy Standard which was very pleasant
to him. His daughter Patience had come down to nurse Sir Thomas and take him back to Fulham.
Sir Thomas had refused to allow any message to be sent home on the day on which the accident
had occurred. On the following morning he had telegraphed to say that his arm had been broken,
but that he was doing very well. And on the Wednesday Patience was with him.

In spite of the broken arm it was a pleasant meeting. For the last fortnight Sir Thomas had
not only not seen a human being with whom he could sympathise, but had been constrained to
associate with people who were detestable to him. His horror of Griffenbottom, his disgust
at Trigger, his fear of Mr. Pabsby's explanations, and his inability to cope with Messrs. Spicer
and Roodylands when they spoke of mustard and boots, had been almost too much for him. The
partial seclusion occasioned by his broken arm had been a godsend to him. In such a state he
was prepared to feel that his daughter's presence was an angel's visit. And even to him his
success had something of the pleasure of a triumph. Of course he was pleased to have won the
seat. And though whispers of threats as to a petition had already reached him, he was able
in these, the first hours of his membership, to throw his fears on that head behind him. The
man must be of a most cold temperament who, under such circumstances, cannot allow himself
some short enjoyment of his new toy. It was his at least for the time, and he probably told
himself that threatened folk lived long. That Patience should take glory in the victory was
a matter of course. "Dear papa," she said, "if you can only get your arm well again!"

"I don't suppose there is any cause for fear as to that."

"But a broken arm is a great misfortune," said Patience.

"Well;--yes. One can't deny that. And three Percycross doctors are three more misfortunes.
I must get home as soon as I can."

"You mustn't be rash, papa, even to escape from Percycross. But, oh, papa; we are so happy
and so proud. It is such an excellent thing that you should be in Parliament again."

"I don't know that, my dear."

"We feel it so,--Clary and I,--and so does Mary. I can't tell you the sort of anxiety we were
in all day yesterday. First we got the telegram about your arm,--and then Stemm came down at
eight and told us that you were returned. Stemm was quite humane on the occasion."

"Poor Stemm!--I don't know what he'll have to do."

"It won't matter to him, papa;--will it? And then he told me another piece of news."

"What is it?"

"You won't like it, papa. We didn't like it at all."

"What is it, my dear?"

"Stemm says that Ralph has sold all the Newton Priory estate to his uncle."

"It is the best thing he could do."

"Really, papa?"

"I think so. He must have done that or made some disreputable marriage."

"I don't think he would have done that," said Patience.

"But he was going to do it. He had half-engaged himself to some tailor's daughter. Indeed,
up to the moment of your telling me this I thought he would marry her." Poor Clary! So Patience
said to herself as she heard this. "He had got himself into such a mess that the best thing
he could do was to sell his interest to his uncle. The estate will go to a better fellow, though
out of the proper line."

Then Patience told her father that she had brought a letter for him which had been given to
her that morning by Stemm, who had met her at the station.

"I think," she said, "that it comes from some of the Newton family because of the crest and
the Basingstoke postmark." Then the letter was brought;--and as it concerns much the thread
of our story, it shall be given to the reader;--

   Newton Priory, October 17, 186--.

   MY DEAR SIR THOMAS UNDERWOOD,--

   I write to you with the sanction, or rather at the
   instigation, of my father to ask your permission to become
   a suitor to your niece, Miss Bonner. You will probably
   have heard, or at least will hear, that my father has made
   arrangements with his nephew Ralph, by which the reversion
   of the Newton property will belong to my father. It is his
   intention to leave the estate to me, and he permits me to
   tell you that he will consent to any such settlement in
   the case of my marriage, as would have been usual, had
   I been his legitimate heir. I think it best to be frank
   about this, as I should not have ventured to propose
   such a marriage either to you or to Miss Bonner, had
   not my father's solicitude succeeded in placing me in
   circumstances which may, perhaps, be regarded as in part
   compensating the great misfortune of my birth.

   It may probably be right that I should add that I have
   said no word on this subject to Miss Bonner. I have
   hitherto felt myself constrained by the circumstances to
   which I have alluded from acting as other men may act.
   Should you be unwilling to concede that the advantages
   of fortune which have now fallen in my way justify me in
   proposing to myself such a marriage, I hope that you will
   at least excuse my application to yourself.

   Very faithfully yours,

   RALPH NEWTON.

Sir Thomas read the letter twice before he spoke a word to his daughter. Then, after pausing
with it for a moment in his hand, he threw it to her across the bed. "Miss Mary is in luck,"
he said;--"in very great luck. It is a magnificent property, and as far as I can see, one of
the finest young fellows I ever met. You understand about his birth?"

"Yes," said Patience, almost in a whisper.

"It might be a hindrance to him in some circumstances; but not here. It is nothing here. Did
you know of this?"

"No, indeed."

"Nor Mary?"

"It will be quite a surprise to her. I am sure it will."

"You think, then, that there has been nothing said,--not a word about it?"

"I am sure there has not, papa. Clarissa had some joke with Mary,--quite as a joke."

"Then there has been a joke?"

"It meant nothing. And as for Mr. Newton, he could not have dreamed of anything of the kind.
We all liked him."

"So did I. The property will be much better with him than with the other. Mary is a very lucky
girl. That's all I can say. As for the letter, it's the best letter I ever read in my life."

There was some delay before Sir Thomas could write an answer to young Newton. It was, indeed,
his left arm that had suffered; but even with so much of power abstracted, writing is not an
easy task. And this was a letter the answering of which could not be deputed to any secretary.
On the third day after its receipt Sir Thomas did manage with much difficulty to get a reply
written.

   DEAR MR. NEWTON,--

   I have had my left arm broken in the election here. Hence
   the delay. I can have no objection. Your letter does you
   infinite honour. I presume you know that my niece has no
   fortune.

   Yours, most sincerely,

   THOMAS UNDERWOOD.

"What a pity it is," said Sir Thomas, "that a man can't have a broken arm in answering all
letters. I should have had to write ever so much had I been well. And yet I could not have
said a word more that would have been of any use."

Sir Thomas was kept an entire week at the Percycross Standard after his election was over before
the three doctors and the innkeeper between them would allow him to be moved. During this time
there was very much discussion between the father and daughter as to Mary's prospects; and
a word or two was said inadvertently which almost opened the father's eyes as to the state
of his younger daughter's affections. It is sometimes impossible to prevent the betrayal of
a confidence, when the line between betrayal and non-betrayal is finely drawn. It was a matter
of course that there should be much said about that other Ralph, the one now disinherited and
dispossessed, who had so long and so intimately been known to them; and it was almost impossible
for Patience not to show the cause of her great grief. It might be, as her father said, that
the property would be better in the hands of this other young man; but Patience knew that her
sympathies were with the spendthrift, and with the dearly-loved sister who loved the spendthrift.
Since Clarissa had come to speak so openly of her love, to assert it so loudly, and to protest
that nothing could or should shake it, Patience had been unable not to hope that the heir might
at last prove himself worthy to be her sister's husband. Then they heard that his inheritance
was sold. "It won't make the slightest difference to me," said Clary almost triumphantly, as
she discussed the matter with Patience the evening before the journey to Percycross. "If he
were a beggar it would be the same." To Patience, however, the news of the sale had been a
great blow. And now her father told her that this young man had been thinking of marrying another
girl, a tailor's daughter;--that such a marriage had been almost fixed. Surely it would be
better that steps should be taken to wean her sister from such a passion! But yet she did not
tell the secret. She only allowed a word to escape her, from which it might be half surmised
that Clarissa would be a sufferer. "What difference will it make to Clary?" asked Sir Thomas.

"I have sometimes thought that he cared for her," said Patience cunningly. "He would hardly
have been so often at the villa, unless there had been something."

"There must be nothing of that kind," said Sir Thomas. "He is a spendthrift, and quite unworthy
of her. I will not have him at the villa. He must be told so. If you see anything of that kind,
you must inform me. Do you understand, Patience?" Patience understood well enough, but knew
not what reply to make. She could not tell her sister's secret. And if there were faults in
the matter, was it not her father's fault? Why had he not lived with them, so that he might
see these things with his own eyes? "There must be nothing of that kind," said Sir Thomas,
with a look of anger in his eyes.

When the week was over, the innkeeper and the doctors submitting with but a bad grace, the
member for Percycross returned to London with his arm bound up in a sling. The town was by
this time quite tranquil. The hustings had been taken down, and the artizans of the borough
were back at their labours, almost forgetting Moggs and his great doctrines. That there was
to be a petition was a matter of course. It was at least a matter of course that there should
be threats of a petition. The threat of course reached Sir Thomas's ears, but nothing further
was said to him. When he and his daughter went down to the station in the Standard fly, it
almost seemed that he was no more to the borough than any other man might be with a broken
arm. "I shall not speak of this to Mary," he said on his journey home. "Nor should you, I think,
my dear."

"Of course not, papa."

"He should have the opportunity of changing his mind after receiving my letter, if he so pleases.
For her sake I hope he will not." Patience said nothing further. She loved her cousin Mary,
and certainly had felt no dislike for this fortunate young man. But she could not so quickly
bring herself to sympathise with interests which seemed to be opposed to those of her sister.

CHAPTER XXXI.

IT IS ALL SETTLED.

In the last half of this month of October the Squire at Newton was very pressing on his lawyers
up in London to settle the affairs of the property. He was most anxious to make a new will,
but could not do so till his nephew had completed the sale, and till the money had been paid.
He had expressed a desire to go up to London and remain there till all was done; but against
this his son had expostulated, urging that his father could not hasten the work up in London
by his presence, but would certainly annoy and flurry everybody in the lawyer's office. Mr.
Carey had promised that the thing should be done with as little delay as possible, but Mr.
Carey was not a man to be driven. Then again the Squire would be a miserable man up in London,
whereas at the Priory he might be so happy among the new works which he had already inaugurated.
The son's arguments prevailed,--especially that argument as to the pleasure of the Squire's
present occupations,--and the Squire consented to remain at home.

There seemed to be an infinity of things to be done, and to the Squire himself the world appeared
to require more of happy activity than at any previous time of his life. He got up early, and
was out about the place before breakfast. He had endless instructions to give to everybody
about the estate. The very air of the place was sweeter to him than heretofore. The labourers
were less melancholy at their work. The farmers smiled oftener. The women and children were
more dear to him. Everything around him had now been gifted with the grace of established ownership.
His nephew Gregory, after that last dinner of which mention was made, hardly came near him
during the next fortnight. Once or twice the Squire went up to the church during week days
that he might catch the parson, and even called at the parsonage. But Gregory was unhappy,
and would not conceal his unhappiness. "I suppose it will wear off," said the Squire to his son.

"Of course it will, sir."

"It shall not be my fault if it does not. I wonder whether it would have made him happier to
see the property parcelled out and sold to the highest bidder after my death."

"It is not unnatural, if you think of it," said Ralph.

"Perhaps not; and God forbid that I should be angry with him because he cannot share my triumph.
I feel, however, that I have done my duty, and that nobody has a right to quarrel with me."

And then there were the hunters. Every sportsman knows, and the wives and daughters of all
sportsmen know, how important a month in the calendar is the month of October. The real campaign
begins in November; and even for those who do not personally attend to the earlier work of
the kennel,--or look after cub-hunting, which during the last ten days of October is apt to
take the shape of genuine hunting,--October has charms of its own and peculiar duties. It is
the busiest month in the year in regard to horses. Is physic needed? In the Squire's stables
physic was much eschewed, and the Squire's horses were usually in good condition. But it is
needful to know, down to a single line on the form, whether this or that animal wants more
exercise,--and if so, of what nature. We hold that for hunters which are worked regularly throughout
the season, and which live in loose boxes summer and winter, but little exercise is required
except in the months of September and October. Let them have been fed on oats throughout the
year, and a good groom will bring them into form in two months. Such at least was the order
at the Newton stables; and during this autumn,--especially during these last days of October,--this
order was obeyed with infinite alacrity, and with many preparations for coming joys. And there
are other cares, less onerous indeed, but still needful. What good sportsman is too proud,
or even too much engaged, to inspect his horse's gear,--and his own? Only let his horses' gear
stand first in his mind! Let him be sure that the fit of a saddle is of more moment than the
fit of a pair of breeches;--that in riding the length, strength, and nature of the bit will
avail more,--should at least avail more,--than the depth, form, and general arrangement of
the flask; that the question of boots, great as it certainly is, should be postponed to the
question of shoes; that a man's seat should be guarded by his girths rather than by his spurs;
that no run has ever been secured by the brilliancy of the cravat, though many a run has been
lost by the insufficiency of a stirrup-leather. In the stables and saddle-room, and throughout
the whole establishment of the house at Newton, all these matters were ever sedulously regarded;
but they had never been regarded with more joyful zeal than was given to them during this happy
month. There was not a stable-boy about the place who did not know and feel that their Mr.
Ralph was now to take his place in the hunting-field as the heir to Newton Priory.

And there were other duties at Newton of which the crowd of riding-men know little or nothing.
Were there foxes in the coverts? The Squire had all his life been a staunch preserver, thinking
more of a vixen with her young cubs than he would of any lady in the land with her first-born
son. During the last spring and summer, however, things had made him uncomfortable; and he
had not personally inquired after the well-being of each nursery in the woods as had been his
wont. Ralph, indeed, had been on the alert, and the keepers had not become slack;--but there
had been a whisper about the place that the master didn't care so much about the foxes as he
used to do. They soon found out that he cared enough now. The head-keeper opened his eyes very
wide when he was told that the Squire would take it as a personal offence if the coverts were
ever drawn blank. It was to be understood through the county that at Newton Priory everything
now was happy and prosperous. "We'll get up a breakfast and a meet on the lawn before the end
of the month," said the Squire to his son. "I hate hunt breakfasts myself, but the farmers
like them." From all which the reader will perceive that the Squire was in earnest.

Ralph hunted all through the latter days of October, but the Squire himself would not go out
till the first regular day of the season. "I like a law, and I like to stick to it," he said.
"Five months is enough for the horses in all conscience." At last the happy day arrived,--Wednesday,
the 2nd of November,--and the father and son started together for the meet in a dog-cart on
four wheels with two horses. On such occasions the Squire always drove himself, and professed
to go no more than eight miles an hour. The meet was over in the Berkshire county in the neighbourhood
of Swallowfield, about twelve miles distant, and the Squire was in his seat precisely at half-past
nine. Four horses had gone on in the charge of two grooms, for the Squire had insisted on Ralph
riding with a second horse. "If you don't, I won't," he had said; and Ralph of course had yielded.
Just at this time there had grown up in the young man's mind a feeling that his father was
almost excessive in the exuberance of his joy,--that he was displaying too ostensibly to the
world at large the triumph which he had effected. But the checking of this elation was almost
impossible to the son on whose behalf it was exhibited. Therefore, to Ralph's own regret, the
two horses had on this morning been sent on to Barford Heath. The Squire was not kept waiting
a moment. Ralph lit his cigar and jumped in, and the Squire started in all comfort and joy.
The road led them by Darvell's farm, and for a moment the carriage was stopped that a word
might be spoken to some workman. "You'd better have a couple more men, Miles. It won't do to
let the frost catch us," said the Squire. Miles touched his hat, and assented. "The house will
look very well from here," said the Squire, pointing down through a line of trees. Ralph assented
cheerily; and yet he thought that his father was spending more money than Darvell's house need
to have cost him.

They reached Barford Heath a few minutes before eleven, and there was a little scene upon the
occasion. It was the first recognised meet of the season, and the Squire had not been out before.
It was now known to almost every man there that the owner of Newton Priory had at last succeeded
in obtaining the reversion of the estate for his own son; and though the matter was one which
hardly admitted of open congratulation, still there were words spoken and looks given, and
a little additional pressure in the shaking of hands,--all of which seemed to mark a triumph.
That other Ralph had not been known in the county. This Ralph was very popular; and though
of course there was existent some amount of inner unexpressed feeling that the proper line
of an old family was being broken, that for the moment was kept in abeyance, and all men's
faces wore smiles as they were turned upon the happy Squire. He hardly carried himself with
as perfect a moderation as his son would have wished. He was a little loud,--not saying much
to any one openly about the property, uttering merely a word or two in a low voice in answer
to the kind expressions of one or two specially intimate friends; but in discussing other matters,--the
appearance of the pack, the prospects of the season, the state of the county,--he was not quite
like himself. In his ordinary way he was a quiet man, not often heard at much distance, and
contented to be noted as Newton of Newton rather than as a man commanding attention by his
conduct before other men. There certainly was a difference to-day, and it was of that kind
which wine produces on some who are not habitual drinkers. The gases of his life were in exuberance,
and he was as a balloon insufficiently freighted with ballast. His buoyancy, unless checked,
might carry him too high among the clouds. All this Ralph saw, and kept himself a little aloof.
If there were aught amiss, there was no help for it on his part; and, after all, what was amiss
was so very little amiss.

"We'll draw the small gorses first," said the old master, addressing himself specially to Mr.
Newton, "and then we'll go into Barford Wood."

"Just so," said the Squire; "the gorses first by all means. I remember when there was always
a fox at Barford Gorse. Come along. I hate to see time wasted. You'll be glad to hear we're
full of foxes at Newton. There were two litters bred in Bostock Spring;--two, by Jove! in that
little place. Dan,"--Dan was his second horseman,--"I'll ride the young one this morning. You
have Paddywhack fresh for me about one." Paddywhack was the old Irish horse which had carried
him so long, and has been mentioned before. There was nothing remarkable in all this. There
was no word spoken that might not have been said with a good grace by any old sportsman, who
knew the men around him, and who had long preserved foxes for their use;--but still it was
felt that the Squire was a little loud. Ralph the son, on whose behalf all this triumph was
felt, was silenter than usual, and trotted along at the rear of the long line of horsemen.

One specially intimate friend of his,--a man whom he really loved,--hung back with the object
of congratulating him. "Ralph," said George Morris, of Watheby Grove, a place about four miles
from the Priory, "I must tell you how glad I am of all this."

"All right, old fellow."

"Come; you might show out a little to me. Isn't it grand? We shall always have you among us
now. Don't tell me that you are indifferent."

"I think enough about it, God knows, George. But it seems to me that the less said about it
the better. My father has behaved nobly to me, and of course I like to feel that I've got a
place in the world marked out for me. But--"

"But what?"

"You understand it all, George. There shouldn't be rejoicing in a family because the heir has
lost his inheritance."

"I can't look at it in that line."

"I can't look at it in any other," said Ralph. "Mind you, I'm not saying that it isn't all
right. What has happened to him has come of his own doings. I only mean that we ought to be
quiet about it. My father's spirits are so high, that he can hardly control them."

"By George, I don't wonder at it," said George Morris.

There were three little bits of gorse about half-a-mile from Barford Wood, as to which it seemed
that expectation did not run high, but from the last of which an old fox broke before the hounds
were in it. It was so sudden a thing that the pack was on the scent and away before half-a-dozen
men had seen what had happened. Our Squire had been riding with Cox, the huntsman, who had
ventured to say how happy he was that the young squire was to be the Squire some day. "So am
I, Cox; so am I," said the Squire. "And I hope he'll be a friend to you for many a year."

"By the holy, there's Dick a-hallooing," said Cox, forgetting at once the comparatively unimportant
affairs of Newton Priory in the breaking of this unexpected fox. "Golly;--if he ain't away,
Squire." The hounds had gone at once to the whip's voice, and were in full cry in less time
than it has taken to tell the story of "the find." Cox was with them, and so was the Squire.
There were two or three others, and one of the whips. The start, indeed, was not much, but
the burst was so sharp, and the old fox ran so straight, that it sufficed to enable those who
had got the lead to keep it. "Tally-ho!" shouted the Squire, as he saw the animal making across
a stubble field before the hounds, with only one fence between him and the quarry. "Tally-ho!"
It was remarked afterwards that the Squire had never been known to halloo to a fox in that
way before. "Just like one of the young 'uns, or a fellow out of the town," said Cox, when
expressing his astonishment.

But the Squire never rode a run better in his life. He gave a lead to the field, and he kept
it. "I wouldn't 'a spoilt him by putting my nose afore 'is, were it ever so," said Cox afterwards.
"He went as straight as a schoolboy at Christmas, and the young horse he rode never made a
mistake. Let men say what they will, a young horse will carry a man a brush like that better
than an old one. It was very short. They had run their fox, pulled him down, broken him up,
and eaten him within half an hour. Jack Graham, who is particular about those things, and who
was, at any rate, near enough to see it all, said that it was exactly twenty-two minutes and
a half. He might be right enough in that, but when he swore that they had gone over four miles
of ground, he was certainly wrong. They killed within a field of Heckfield church, and Heckfield
church can't be four miles from Barford Gorse. That they went as straight as a line everybody
knew. Besides, they couldn't have covered the ground in the time. The pace was good, no doubt;
but Jacky Graham is always given to exaggeration."

The Squire was very proud of his performance, and, when Ralph came up, was loud in praise of
the young horse. "Never was carried so well in my life,--never," said he. "I knew he was good,
but I didn't know he would jump like that. I wouldn't take a couple of hundred for him." This
was still a little loud; but the Squire at this moment had the sense of double triumph within,
and was to be forgiven. It was admitted on all sides that he had ridden the run uncommonly
well. "Just like a young man, by Jove," said Jack Graham. "Like what sort of a young man?"
asked George Harris, who had come up at the heel of the hunt with Ralph.

"And where were you, Master Ralph?" said the Squire to his son.

"I fancy I just began to know they were running by the time you were killing your fox," said Ralph.

"You should have your eyes better about you, my boy; shouldn't he, Cox?"

"The young squire ain't often in the wrong box," said the huntsman.

"He wasn't in the right one to-day," said the Squire. This was still a little loud. There was
too much of that buoyancy which might have come from drink; but which, with the Squire, was
the effect of that success for which he had been longing rather than hoping all his life.

From Heckfield they trotted back to Barford Wood, the master resolving that he would draw his
country in the manner he had proposed to himself in the morning. There was some little repining
at this, partly because the distance was long, and partly because Barford Woods were too large
to be popular. "Hunting is over for the day," said Jack Graham. To this view of the case the
Squire, who had now changed his horse, objected greatly. "We shall find in Barford big wood
as sure as the sun rises," said he. "Yes," said Jack, "and run into the little wood and back
to the big wood, and so on till we hate every foot of the ground. I never knew anything from
Barford Woods yet for which a donkey wasn't as good as a horse." The Squire again objected,
and told the story of a run from Barford Woods twenty years ago which had taken them pretty
nearly on to Ascot Heath. "Things have changed since that," said Jack Graham. "Very much for
the better," said the Squire. Ralph was with him then, and still felt that his father was too
loud. Whether he meant that hunting was better now than in the old days twenty years ago, or
that things as regarded the Newton estate were better, was not explained; but all who heard
him speak imagined that he was alluding to the latter subject.

Drawing Barford Woods is a very different thing than drawing Barford Gorses. Anybody may see
a fox found at the gorses who will simply take the trouble to be with the hounds when they
go into the covert; but in the wood it becomes a great question with a sportsman whether he
will stick to the pack or save his horse and loiter about till he hears that a fox has been
found. The latter is certainly the commoner course, and perhaps the wiser. And even when the
fox has been found it may be better for the expectant sportsman to loiter about till he breaks,
giving some little attention to the part of the wood in which the work of hunting may be progressing.
There are those who systematically stand still or roam about very slowly;--others, again, who
ride and cease riding by spurts, just as they become weary or impatient;--and others who, with
dogged perseverance, stick always to the track of the hounds. For years past the Squire was
to have been found among the former and more prudent set of riders, but on this occasion he
went gallantly through the thickest of the underwood, close at the huntsman's heels. "You'll
find it rather nasty, Mr. Newton, among them brakes," Cox had said to him. But the Squire had
answered that he hadn't got his Sunday face on, and had persevered.

They were soon on a fox in Barford Wood;--but being on a fox in Barford Wood was very different
from finding a fox in Barford Gorse. Out of the gorse a fox must go; but in the big woods he
might choose to remain half the day. And then the chances were that he would either beat the
hounds at last, or else be eaten in covert. "It's a very pretty place to ride about and smoke
and drink one's friend's sherry." That was Jack Graham's idea of hunting in Barford Woods,
and a great deal of that kind of thing was going on to-day. Now and then there was a little
excitement, and cries of "away" were heard. Men would burst out of the wood here and there,
ride about for a few minutes, and then go in again. Cox swore that they had thrice changed
their fox, and was beginning to be a little short in his temper; the whips' horses were becoming
jaded, and the master had once or twice answered very crossly when questioned. "How the devil
do you suppose I'm to know," he had said to a young gentleman who had inquired, "where they
were?" But still the Squire kept on zealously, and reminded Ralph that some of the best things
of the season were often lost by men becoming slack towards evening. At that time it was nearly
four o'clock, and Cox was clearly of opinion that he couldn't kill a fox in Barford Woods that day.

But still the hounds were hunting. "Darned if they ain't back to the little wood again," said
Cox to the Squire. They were at that moment in an extreme corner of an outlying copse, and
between them and Barford Little Wood was a narrow strip of meadow, over which they had passed
half-a-dozen times that day. Between the copse and the meadow there ran a broad ditch with
a hedge,--a rotten made-up fence of sticks and bushes, which at the corner had been broken
down by the constant passing of horses, till, at this hour of the day, there was hardly at
that spot anything of a fence to be jumped. "We must cross with them again, Cox," said the
Squire. At that moment he was nearest to the gap, and close to him were Ralph and George Morris,
as well as the huntsman. But Mr. Newton's horse was standing sideways to the hedge, and was
not facing the passage. He, nevertheless, prepared to pass it first, and turned his horse sharply
at it; as he did so, some bush or stick caught the animal in the flank, and he, in order to
escape the impediment, clambered up the bank sideways, not taking the gap, and then balanced
himself to make his jump over the ditch. But he was entangled among the sticks and thorns and
was on broken ground, and jumping short, came down into the ditch. The Squire fell heavily
head-long on to the field, and the horse, with no further effort of his own, but unable to
restrain himself, rolled over his master. It was a place as to which any horseman would say
that a child might ride through if on a donkey without a chance of danger, and yet the three
men who saw it knew at once that the Squire had had a bad fall. Ralph was first through the
gap, and was off his own horse as the old Irish hunter, with a groan, collected himself and
got upon his legs. In rising, the animal was very careful not to strike his late rider with
his feet; but it was too evident to Cox that the beast in his attempt to rise had given a terrible
squeeze to the prostrate Squire with his saddle.

In a moment the three men were on their knees, and it was clear that Mr. Newton was insensible.
"I'm afraid he's hurt," said Morris. Cox merely shook his head, as he gently attempted to raise
the Squire's shoulder against his own. Ralph, as pale as death, held his father's hand in one
of his own, and with the other endeavoured to feel the pulse of the heart. Presently, before
any one else came up to them, a few drops of blood came from between the sufferer's lips. Cox
again shook his head. "We'd better get him on to a gate, Mr. Ralph, and into a house," said
the huntsman. They were quickly surrounded by others, and the gate was soon there, and within
twenty minutes a surgeon was standing over our poor old friend. "No; he wasn't dead," the surgeon
said; "but--." "What is it?" asked Ralph, impetuously. The surgeon took the master of the hunt
aside and whispered into his ear that Mr. Newton was a dead man. His spine had been so injured
by the severity of his own fall, and by the weight of the horse rolling on him while he was
still doubled up on the ground, that it was impossible that he should ever speak again. So
the surgeon said, and Squire Newton never did speak again.

He was carried home to the house of a gentleman who lived in those parts, in order that he
might be saved the longer journey to the Priory;--but the length of the road mattered but little
to him. He never spoke again, nor was he sensible for a moment. Ralph remained with him during
the night,--of course,--and so did the surgeon. At five o'clock on the following morning his
last breath had been drawn, and his life had passed away from him. George Morris also had remained
with them,--or rather had come back to the house after having ridden home and changed his clothes,
and it was by him that the tidings were at last told to the wretched son. "It is all over,
Ralph!" "I suppose so!" said Ralph, hoarsely. "There has never been a doubt," said George,
"since we heard of the manner of the accident." "I suppose not," said Ralph. The young man
sat silent, and composed, and made no expression of his grief. He did not weep, nor did his
face even wear that look of woe which is so common to us all when grief comes to us. They two
were still in the room in which the body lay, and were standing close together over the fire.
Ralph was leaning on his elbow upon the chimneypiece, and from time to time Morris would press
his arm. They had been standing together thus for some twenty minutes when Morris asked a question.

"The affair of the property had been settled, Ralph?"

"Don't talk of that now," said the other angrily. Then, after a pause, he put up his face and
spoke again. "Nothing has been settled," he said. "The estate belongs to my cousin Ralph. He
should be informed at once,--at once. He should he telegraphed to, to come to Newton. Would
you mind doing it? He should be informed at once."

"There is time enough for that," said George Morris.

"If you will not I must," replied Ralph.

The telegram was at once sent in duplicate, addressed to that other Ralph,--Ralph who was declared
by the Squire's son to be once more Ralph the heir,--addressed to him both at his lodgings
in London and at the Moonbeam. When the messenger had been sent to the nearest railway station
with the message, Ralph and his friend started for Newton Priory together. Poor Ralph still
wore his boots and breeches and the red coat in which he had ridden on the former fatal day,
and in which he had passed the night by the side of his dying father's bed. On their journey
homeward they met Gregory, who had heard of the accident, and had at once started to see his uncle.

"It is all over!" said Ralph. Gregory, who was in his gig, dropped the reins and sat in silence.
"It is all done. Let us get on, George. It is horrid to me to be in this coat. Get on quickly.
Yes, indeed; everything is done now."

He had lost a father who had loved him dearly, and whom he had dearly loved,--a father whose
opportunities of showing his active love had been greater even than fall to the lot of most
parents. A father gives naturally to his son, but the Squire had been almost unnatural in his
desire to give. There had never been a more devoted father, one more intensely anxious for
his son's welfare;--and Ralph had known this, and loved his father accordingly. Nevertheless,
he could not keep himself from remembering that he had now lost more than a father. The estate
as to which the Squire had been so full of interest,--as to which he, Ralph, had so constantly
endeavoured to protect himself from an interest that should be too absorbing,--had in the last
moment escaped him. And now, in this sad and solemn hour, he could not keep himself from thinking
of that loss. As he had stood in the room in which the dead body of his father had been lying,
he had cautioned himself against this feeling. But still he had known that it had been present
to him. Let him do what he would with his own thoughts, he could not hinder them from running
back to the fact that by his father's sudden death he had lost the possession of the Newton
estate. He hated himself for remembering such a fact at such a time, but he could not keep
himself from remembering it. His father had fought a life-long battle to make him the heir
of Newton, and had perished in the moment of his victory,--but before his victory was achieved.
Ralph had borne his success well while he had thought that his success was certain; but now--!
He knew that all such subjects should be absent from his mind with such cause for grief as
weighed upon him at this moment,--but he could not drive away the reflection. That other Ralph
Newton had won upon the post. He would endeavour to bear himself well, but he could not but
remember that he had been beaten. And there was the father who had loved him so well lying dead!

When he reached the house, George Morris was still with him. Gregory, to whom he had spoken
hardly a word, did not come beyond the parsonage. Ralph could not conceal from himself, could
hardly conceal from his outward manner, the knowledge that Gregory must be aware that his cause
had triumphed. And yet he hated himself for thinking of these things, and believed himself
to be brutal in that he could not conceal his thoughts. "I'll send over for a few things, and
stay with you for a day or two," said George Morris. "It would be bad that you should be left
here alone." But Ralph would not permit the visit. "My father's nephew will be here to-morrow,"
he said, "and I would rather that he should find me alone." In thinking of it all, he remembered
that he must withdraw his claims to the hand of Mary Bonner, now that he was nobody. He could
have no pretension now to offer his hand to any such girl as Mary Bonner!

CHAPTER XXXII.

SIR THOMAS AT HOME.

Sir Thomas Underwood was welcomed home at the villa with a double amount of sympathy and glory,--that
due to him for his victory being added to that which came to him on the score of his broken
arm. A hero is never so much a hero among women as when he has been wounded in the battle.
The very weakness which throws him into female hands imparts a moiety of his greatness to the
women who for the while possess him, and creates a partnership in heroism, in which the feminine
half delights to make the most of its own share. During the week at Percycross and throughout
the journey Patience had had this half all to herself; and there had arisen to her considerable
enjoyment from it as soon as she found that her father would probably be none the worse for
his accident after a few weeks. She saw more of him now than she had done for years, and was
able, after a fashion, to work her quiet, loving, female will with him, exacting from him an
obedience to feminine sway such as had not been exercised on him since his wife's death. He
himself had been humbled, passive, and happy. He had taken his gruel, grumbled with modesty,
and consoled himself with constantly reflecting that he was member of Parliament for the borough
of Percycross.

During their journey, although Patience was urgent in requiring from her father quiescence,
lest he should injure himself by too much exertion, there were many words spoken both as to
Clarissa and Mary Bonner. As to poor Clary, Sir Thomas was very decided that if there were
any truth in the suspicion which had been now roused in his mind as to Ralph the heir, the
thing must be put an end to at once. Ralph who had been the heir was now in possession of that
mess of pottage for which he had sold his inheritance,--so said Sir Thomas to his daughter,--and
would undoubtedly consume that, as he had consumed the other mess which should have lasted
him till the inheritance was his own. And he told to Patience the whole story as to Polly Neefit,--the
whole story, at least, as he had heard it. Ralph had declared to Sir Thomas, when discussing
the expedience of his proposed marriage with the daughter of the breeches-maker, that he was
attached to Polly Neefit. Sir Thomas had done all he could to dissuade the young man from a
marriage which, in his eyes, was disgraceful; but he could not bring himself to look with favour
on affections transferred so quickly from the breeches-maker's daughter to his own. There must
be no question of a love affair between Clary and the foolish heir who had disinherited himself
by his folly. All this was doubly painful to Patience. She suffered first for her sister, the
violence of whose feelings were so well known to her, and so completely understood; and then
on her own account she was obliged to endure the conviction that she was deceiving her father.
Although she had allowed something of the truth to escape from her, she had not wilfully told
her sister's secret. But looking at the matter from her father's point of view, and hearing
all that her father now said, she was brought in guilty of hypocrisy in the court of her own
conscience.

In that other matter as to Mary Bonner there was much more of pleasantness. There could be
no possible reason why that other man, to whom Fortune was going to be so good, should not
marry Mary Bonner, if Mary could bring herself to take him into her good graces. And of course
she would. Such at least was Sir Thomas's opinion. How was it possible that a girl like Mary,
who had nothing of her own, should fail to like a lover who had everything to recommend him,--good
looks, good character, good temper, and good fortune. Patience did make some protest against
this, for the sake of her sex. She didn't think, she said, that Mary had ever thought of Mr.
Newton in that light. "There must be a beginning to such thoughts, of course," said Sir Thomas.
Patience explained that she had nothing to say against Mr. Newton. It would all be very nice
and proper, no doubt,--only perhaps Mary might not care for Mr. Newton. "Psha!" said Sir Thomas.
Sir Thomas seemed to think that the one girl was as much bound to fall in love as the other
was to abstain from so doing. Patience continued her protest,--but very mildly, because her
father's arm was in a sling. Then there arose the question whether Mary should be told of the
young man's letter. Patience thought that the young man should be allowed to come and speak
for himself. Sir Thomas made no objection to the young man's coming. The young man might come
when he pleased. But Sir Thomas thought it would be well that Mary should know what the young
man had written. And so they reached home.

To be glorified by one worshipping daughter had been pleasant to the wounded hero, but to be
glorified by two daughters and a niece was almost wearisome. On the first evening nothing was
said about the love troubles or love prospects of the girls. Sir Thomas permitted to himself
the enjoyment of his glory, with some few signs of impatience when the admiration became too
strong. He told the whole story of his election, lying back among his cushions on the sofa,
although Patience, with mild persistence, cautioned him against exertion.

"It is very bad that you should have your arm broken, papa," said Clarissa.

"It is a bore, my dear."

"Of course it is,--a dreadful bore. But as it is doing so well, I am so glad that you went
down to Percycross. It is such a great thing that you should be in the House again. It does
give so much colour to our lives here."

"I hope they were not colourless before."

"You know what I mean. It is so nice to feel that you are in Parliament."

"It is quite on the cards that I may lose the seat by petition."

"They never can be so cruel," said Mary.

"Cruelty!" said Sir Thomas laughing. "In politics men skin each other without the slightest
feeling. I do not doubt that Mr. Westmacott would ruin me with the most perfect satisfaction,
if by doing so he could bring the seat within his own reach again; and yet I believe Mr. Westmacott
to be a kind-hearted, good sort of man. There is a theory among Englishmen that in politics
no man need spare another. To wish that your opponent should fall dead upon the hustings is
not an uncharitable wish at an election."

"Oh, papa!" exclaimed Patience.

"At any rate you are elected," said Clary.

"And threatened folk live long, uncle," said Mary Bonner.

"So they say, my dear. Well, Patience, don't look at me with so much reprobation in your eyes,
and I will go to bed at once. Being here instead of at the Percy Standard does make one inclined
to take a liberty."

"Oh, papa, it is such a delight to have you," said Clary, jumping up and kissing her father's
forehead. All this was pleasant enough, and the first evening came to an end very happily.

The next morning Patience, when she was alone with her father, made a request to him with some
urgency. "Papa," she said, "do not say anything to Clary about Ralph."

"Why not?"

"If there is anything in it, let it die out of itself."

"But is there?"

"How am I to say? Think of it, papa. If I knew it, I could hardly tell,--even you."

"Why not? If I am not to hear the truth from you who is to tell me?"

"Dear papa, don't be angry. There may be a truth which had better not be told. What we both
want is that Clary shouldn't suffer. If you question her she will suffer. You may be sure of
this,--that she will obey your wishes."

"How can she obey them, unless she knows them?"

"She shall know them," said Patience. But Sir Thomas would give no promise.

On that same day Sir Thomas sent for his niece into his room, and there read to her the letter
which he had received from the Squire's son. It was now the last week of October,--that short
blessed morsel of time which to the poor Squire at Newton was the happiest of his life. He
was now cutting down trees and building farm-houses, and looking after his stud in all the
glory of his success. Ralph had written his letter, and had received his answer,--and he also
was successful and glorious. That fatal day on which the fox would not break from Barford Woods
had not yet arrived. Mary Bonner heard the letter read, and listened to Sir Thomas's speech
without a word, without a blush, and without a sign. Sir Thomas began his speech very well,
but became rather misty towards the end, when he found himself unable to reduce Mary to a state
of feminine confusion. "My dear," he began, "I have received a letter which I think it is my
duty to read to you."

"A letter, uncle?"

"Yes, my dear. Sit down while I read it. I may as well tell you at once that it is a letter
which has given me very great satisfaction. It is from a young gentleman;"--upon hearing this
announcement Mary's face assumed a look of settled, collected strength, which never left it
for a moment during the remainder of the interview,--"yes; from a young gentleman, and I may
say that I never read a letter which I thought to be more honourable to the writer. It is from
Mr. Ralph Newton,--not the Ralph with whom you have found us to be so intimate, but from the
other who will some day be Mr. Newton of Newton Priory." Then Sir Thomas looked into his niece's
face, hoping to see there something of the flutter of expectant triumph. But there was neither
flutter nor triumph in Mary's countenance. He read the letter, sitting up in his bed, with
his left arm in a sling, and then he handed it to her. "You had better look at it yourself,
my dear." Mary took the letter, and sat as though she were reading it. It seemed to Sir Thomas
that she was reading it with the cold accuracy of a cautious attorney;--but in truth her eyes
did not follow a single word of the letter. There was neither flutter nor triumph in her face,
or in the movement of her limbs, or in the quiet, almost motionless carriage of her body; but,
nevertheless, the pulses of her heart beat so strongly, that had all depended on it she could
not have read a word of the letter. "Well, my dear," said Sir Thomas, when he thought that
ample time had been given for the perusal. Mary simply folded the paper together and returned
it into his hands. "I have told him, as I was bound to do, my dear, that as far as I was concerned,
I should be happy to receive him; but that for any other answer, I must refer him to you. Of
course it will be for you to give him what answer your heart dictates. But I may say this,--and
it is my duty to say it as your guardian and nearest relative;--the way in which he has put
forward his request shows him to be a most honourable man; all that I have ever heard of him
is in his favour; he is a gentleman every inch of him; and as for his prospects in life, they
are such that they entitle him to address almost any lady in the land. Of course you will follow
the dictates of your own heart, as I said; but I cannot myself fancy any greater good fortune
that could come in the way of a young woman than the honest affections of such a man as this
Ralph Newton." Then Sir Thomas paused for some reply, but Mary had none ready for him. "Of
course I have no questions to ask," he said, and then again paused. But still Mary did not
speak. "I dare say he will be here before long, and I hope that he may meet with a happy reception.
I at least shall be glad to see him, for I hold him in great honour. And as I look upon marriage
as the happiest lot for all women, and as I think that this would be a happy marriage, I do
hope,--I do hope-- But as I said before, all that must be left to yourself. Mary, have you
nothing to say?"

"I trust, uncle, you are not tired of me."

"Tired of you! Certainly not. I have not been with you since you have been here as much as
I should have wished because,--indeed for various reasons. But we all like you, and nobody
wants to get rid of you. But there is a way in which young ladies leave their own homes, which
is generally thought to be matter of congratulation. But, as I said before, nobody shall press
you."

"Dear uncle, I am so full of thanks to you for your kindness."

"But it is of course my duty as your guardian to tell you that in my opinion this gentleman
is entitled to your esteem."

After that Mary left him without another word, and taking her hat and cloak as she passed through
the hall went at once out into the garden. It was a fine autumn morning, almost with a touch
of summer in it. We do not know here that special season which across the Atlantic is called
the Indian summer,--that last glow of the year's warmth which always brings with it a half
melancholy conviction of the year's decay,--which in itself is so delightful, would be so full
of delight, were it not for the consciousness which it seems to contain of being the immediate
precursor of winter with all its horrors. There is no sufficient constancy with us of the recurrence
of such a season, to make any special name needful. But now and again there comes a day, when
the winds of the equinox have lulled themselves, and the chill of October rains have left the
earth, and the sun gives a genial, luxurious warmth, with no power to scorch, with strength
only to comfort. But here, as elsewhere, this luxury is laden with melancholy, because it tells
us of decay, and is the harbinger of death. This was such a day, and Mary Bonner, as she hurried
into a shrubbery walk, where she could wander unseen, felt both the sadness and the softness
of the season. There was a path which ran from the front gate of the villa grounds through
shrubs and tall evergreens down to the river, and was continued along the river-bank up through
the flower-garden to windows opening from the drawing-room. Here she walked alone for more
than an hour, turning as she came to the river in order that she might not be seen from the house.

Mary Bonner, of whose character hitherto but little has been said, was, at any rate, an acute
observer. Very soon after her first introduction to Ralph the heir,--Ralph who had for so many
years been the intimate friend of the Underwood family,--she perceived something in the manner
of that very attractive young man which conveyed to her a feeling that, if she so pleased,
she might count him as an admirer of her own. She had heard then, as was natural, much of the
brilliance of his prospects, and but little,--as was also natural,--of what he had done to
mar them. And she also perceived, or fancied that she perceived, that her cousin Clary gave
many of her thoughts to the heir. Now Mary Bonner understood the importance to herself of a
prosperous marriage, as well as any girl ever did understand its great significance. She was
an orphan, living in fact on the charity of her uncle. And she was aware that having come to
her uncle's house when all the weakness and attractions of her childhood were passed, she could
have no hold on him or his such as would have been hers had she grown to be a woman beneath
his roof. There was a thoughtfulness too about her,--a thoughtfulness which some, perhaps,
may call worldliness,--which made it impossible for her not to have her own condition constantly
in her mind. In her father's lifetime she had been driven by his thoughtlessness and her own
sterner nature to think of these things; and in the few months that had passed between her
father's death and her acceptance in her uncle's house she had taught herself to regard the
world as an arena in which she must fight a battle by her own strength with such weapons as
God had given to her. God had, indeed, given to her many weapons, but she knew but of one.
She did know that God had made her very beautiful. But she regarded her beauty after an unfeminine
fashion,--as a thing of value, but as a chattel of which she could not bring herself to be
proud. Might it be possible that she should win for herself by her beauty some position in
the world less burdensome, more joyous than that of a governess, and less dependent than that
of a daily recipient of her uncle's charity?

She had had lovers in the West Indies,--perhaps a score of them, but they had been nothing
to her. Her father's house had been so constituted that it had been impossible for her to escape
the very plainly spoken admiration of captains, lieutenants, and Colonial secretaries. In the
West Indies gentlemen do speak so very plainly, on, or without, the smallest encouragement,
that ladies accept such speaking much as they do in England the attention of a handkerchief
lifted or an offer for a dance. It had all meant nothing to Mary Bonner, who from her earliest
years of girlhood had been accustomed to captains, lieutenants, and even to midshipmen. But,
through it all, she had grown up with serious thoughts, and something of a conviction that
love-making was but an ugly amusement. As far as it had been possible she had kept herself
aloof from it, and though run after for her beauty, had been unpopular as being a "proud, cold,
meaningless minx." When her father died she would speak to no one; and then it had been settled
among the captains, lieutenants, and Colonial secretaries that she was a proud, cold, meaningless
minx. And with this character she left the island. Now there came to her, naturally I say,
this question;--What lovers might she find in England, and, should she find lovers, how should
she deal with them? There are among us many who tell us that no pure-minded girl should think
of finding a lover,--should only deal with him, when he comes, as truth, and circumstances,
and parental control may suggest to her. If there be girls so pure, it certainly seems that
no human being expects to meet them. Such was not the purity of Mary Bonner,--if pure she was.
She did think of some coming lover,--did hope that there might be for her some prosperity of
life as the consequence of the love of some worthy man whom she, in return, might worship.
And then there had come Ralph Newton the heir.

Now to Mary Bonner,--as also to Clarissa Underwood, and to Patience, and to old Mrs. Brownlow,
and a great many others, Ralph the heir did not appear in quite those colours which he probably
will in the reader's eyes. These ladies, and a great many other ladies and gentlemen who reckoned
him among their acquaintance, were not accurately acquainted with his transactions with Messrs.
Neefit, Moggs, and Horsball; nor were they thoroughly acquainted with the easy nature of our
hero's changing convictions. To Clarissa he certainly was heroic; to Patience he was very dear;
to old Mrs. Brownlow he was almost a demigod; to Mr. Poojean he was an object of envy. To Mary
Bonner, as she first saw him, he was infinitely more fascinating than the captains and lieutenants
of West Indian regiments, or than Colonial secretaries generally.

It was during that evening at Mrs. Brownlow's that Mary Bonner resolutely made up her mind
that she would be as stiff and cold to Ralph the heir as the nature of their acquaintance would
allow. She had seen Clarissa without watching, and, without thinking, she had resolved. Mr.
Newton was handsome, well to do, of good address, and clever;--he was also attractive; but
he should not be attractive for her. She would not, as her first episode in her English life,
rob a cousin of a lover. And so her mind was made up, and no word was spoken to any one. She
had no confidences. There was no one in whom she could confide. Indeed, there was no need for
confidence. As she left Mrs. Brownlow's house on that evening she slipped her arm through that
of Patience, and the happy Clarissa was left to walk home with Ralph the heir,--as the reader
may perhaps remember.

Then that other Ralph had come, and she learned in half-pronounced ambiguous whispers what
was the nature of his position in the world. She did not know,--at that time her cousins did
not know,--how nearly successful were the efforts made to dispossess the heir of his inheritance
in order that this other Newton might possess it. But she saw, or thought that she saw, that
this was the gallanter man of the two. Then he came again, and then again, and she knew that
her own beauty was of avail. She encouraged him not at all. It was not in her nature to give
encouragement to a man's advances. It may, perhaps, be said of her that she had no power to
do so. What was in her of the graciousness of feminine love, of the leaning, clinging, flattering
softness of woman's nature, required some effort to extract, and had never hitherto been extracted.
But within her own bosom she told herself that she thought that she could give it, if the asking
for it were duly done. Then came the first tidings of his heirship, of his father's success,--and
then, close upon the heels of those tidings, this heir's humbly expressed desire to be permitted
to woo her. There was all the flutter of triumph in her bosom, as that letter was read to her,
and yet there was no sign of it in her voice or in her countenance.

Nor could it have been seen had she been met walking in the shade of that shrubbery. And yet
she was full of triumph. Here was the man to whom her heart had seemed to turn almost at first
sight, as it had never turned to man before. She had deigned to think of him as of one she
could love;--and he loved her. As she paced the walk it was also much to her that this man
who was so generous in her eyes should have provided for him so noble a place in the world.
She quite understood what it was to be the wife of such a one as the Squire of Newton. She
had grieved for Clary's sake when she heard that the former heir should be heir no longer,--suspecting
Clary's secret. But she could not so grieve as to be insensible of her own joy. And then there
was something in the very manner in which the man approached her, which gratified her pride
while it touched her heart. About that other Ralph there was a tone of sustained self-applause,
which seemed to declare that he had only to claim any woman and to receive her. There was an
old-fashioned mode of wooing of which she had read and dreamed, that implied a homage which
she knew that she desired. This homage her Ralph was prepared to pay.

For an hour she paced the walk, not thinking, but enjoying what she knew. There was nothing
in it requiring thought. He was to come, and till he should come there was nothing that she
need either say or do. Till he should come she would do nothing and say nothing. Such was her
determination when Clarissa's step was heard, and in a moment Clarissa's arm was round her
waist. "Mary," she said, "you must come out with me. Come and walk with me. I am going to Mrs.
Brownlow's. You must come."

"To walk there and back?" said Mary, smiling.

"We will return in an omnibus; but you must come. Oh, I have so much to say to you."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

"TELL ME AND I'LL TELL YOU."

"Papa has told me all about it," were Clarissa's first words as soon as they were out of the
gate on the road to Mrs. Brownlow's.

"All about what, Clary?"

"Oh you know;--or rather it was Patience told me, and then I asked papa. I am so glad."

Mary had as yet hardly had time to think whether the coming of this letter to her uncle would
or would not be communicated to her cousins; but had she thought, she would have been almost
sure that Sir Thomas would be more discreet. The whole matter was to her so important, so secret,
almost so solemn, that she could hardly imagine that it should be discussed among the whole
household. And yet she felt a strong longing within herself to be able to talk of it to some
one. Of the two cousins Clary was certainly her favourite, and had she been forced to consult
any one, she would have consulted Clary. But an absolute confidence in such a matter with a
chosen friend, the more delightful it might appear, was on that very account the more difficult
of attainment. It was an occasion for thought, for doubt, and almost for dismay; and now Clary
rushed into it as though everything could be settled in a walk from Fulham to Parson's Green!
"It is very good of you to be glad, Clary," said the other,--hardly knowing why she said this,
and yet meaning it. If in truth Clary was glad, it was good of her. For this man to whom Clary
was alluding had won from her own lover all his inheritance.

"I like him so much. You will let me talk about him; won't you?"

"Oh, yes," said Mary.

"Do; pray do. There are so many reasons why we should tell each other everything." This elicited
no promise from Mary. "If I thought that you would care, I would tell you all."

"I care about everything that concerns you, Clary."

"But I didn't bring you out to talk about myself now. I want to tell you how much I like your
Ralph Newton."

"But he isn't mine."

"Yes he is;--at any rate, if you like to have him. And of course you will like. Why should
you not? He is everything that is nice and good;--and now he is to be the owner of all the
property. What I want to tell you is this; I do not begrudge it to you."

Why should Clarissa begrudge or not begrudge the property? Mary understood it all, but nothing
had been said entitling her to speak as though she understood it. "I don't think you would
begrudge me anything that you thought good for me," said Mary.

"And I think that Mr. Ralph Newton,--this Mr. Ralph Newton, is very good for you. Nothing could
be so good. In the first place would it not be very nice to have you mistress of Newton Priory?
Only that shouldn't come properly first."

"And what should come first, Clary?"

"Oh,--of course that you should love him better than anything in the world. And you do,--don't
you?"

"It is too sudden to say that yet, Clary."

"But I am sure you will. Don't you feel that you will? Come, Mary, you should tell me something."

"There is so little to tell."

"Then you are afraid of me. I wanted to tell you everything."

"I am not afraid of you. But, remember, it is hardly more than an hour ago since I first heard
of Mr. Newton's wishes, and up to that moment nothing was further from my dreams."

"I was sure of it, ever so long ago," said Clarissa.

"Oh, Clary!"

"I was. I told Patience how it was to be. I saw it in his eyes. One does see these things.
I knew it would be so; and I told Patience that we three would be three Mrs. Newtons. But that
of course was nonsense."

"Nonsense, indeed."

"I mean about Patience."

"And what about yourself, Clary?" Clarissa made no answer, and yet she was burning to tell
her own story. She was most anxious to tell her own story, but only on the condition of reciprocal
confidence. The very nature of her story required that the confidence should be reciprocal.
"You said that you wanted to tell me everything," said Mary.

"And so I do."

"You know how glad I shall be to hear."

"That is all very well, but,--" And then Clarissa paused.

"But what, dear?"

"You do mean to accept Mr. Newton?"

Now it was time for Mary to pause. "If I were to tell you my whole heart," she said, "I should
be ashamed of what I was saying; and yet I do not know that there is any cause for shame."

"There can be none," said Clary. "I am sure of that."

"My acquaintance with Mr. Newton is very, very slight. I liked him,--oh, so much. I thought
him to be high-spirited, manly, and a fine gentleman. I never saw any man who so much impressed
me."

"Of course not," said Clarissa, making a gesture as though she would stop on the high road
and clasp her hands together, in which, however, she was impeded by her parasol and her remembrance
of her present position.

"But it is so much to say that one will love a man better than all the world, and go to him,
and belong to him, and be his wife."

"Ah;--but if one does love him!"

"I can hardly believe that love can grow so quickly."

"Tell the truth, Mary; has it not grown?"

"Indeed I cannot say. There; you shall have the whole truth. When he comes to me,--and I suppose
he will come."

"There isn't much doubt of that."

"If he does come--"

"Well?"

"I hardly know what I shall say to him. I shall try to--to love him."

"Of course you will love him,--better than all the world."

"I know that he is paying me the greatest compliment that a man can pay to a woman. And there
is no earthly reason why I should not be proud to accept all that he offers me. I have nothing
of my own to bestow in return."

"But you are so beautiful."

Mary would make no pretence of denying this. It was true that that one great feminine possession
did belong to her. "After all," she said, "how little does beauty signify! It attracts, but
it can make no man happy. He has everything to give to a wife, and he ought to have much in
return for what he gives."

"You don't mean that a girl should refuse a rich man because she has no fortune of her own?"

"No; not quite that. But she ought to think whether she can be of use to him."

"Of course you will be of use, my dear;--of the greatest use in the world. That's his affair,
and he is the best judge of what will be of use. You will love him, and other men will envy
him, and that will be everything. Oh dear, I do so hope he will come soon."

"And I,--I almost hope he will not. I shall be so afraid to see him. The first meeting will
be so awful. I shall not dare to look him in the face."

"But it is all settled."

"No;--not settled, Clary."

"Yes; it is settled. And now I will tell you what I mean when I say I do not begrudge him to
you. That is--; I do not know whether you will care to be told."

"I care very much, Clary. I should be very unhappy if you did begrudge me anything."

"Of course you know that our Ralph Newton, as we call him, ought to have been the heir."

"Oh, yes."

"I needn't explain it all; only,--only--"

"Only he is everything to you. Is it that, Clary?"

"Yes; it is that. He is everything to me. I love him--. Oh, yes, I do love him! But, Mary,
I am not such a happy girl as you are. Sometimes I think he hardly cares for me."

"But he has asked you to care for him?"

"Well;--I don't know. I think he has. He has told me, I know, that he loved me dearly,--better
than any one."

"And what answer did you make to him, Clary?"

Clarissa had the whole scene on the lawn at Popham Villa so clearly impressed upon her memory,
that an eternity of years, as she thought, could obliterate no one of its incidents and render
doubtful no tone of his voice, no word that her lover had spoken. His conduct had at that time
been so violent that she had answered him only with tears and protestations of undying anger.
But her tears had been dried, and her anger had passed away;--while the love remained. Ralph,
her Ralph, of course knew well enough that the tears were dry and the anger gone. She could
understand that he would understand that. But the love which he had protested, if it were real
love, would remain. And why should she doubt him? The very fact that he was so dear to her,
made such doubts almost disgraceful. And yet there was so much cause for doubt. Patience doubted.
She knew herself that she feared more than she hoped. She had resolved gallantly that she would
be true to her own heart, even though by such truth she should be preparing for herself a life
of disappointment. She had admitted the passion, and she would stand by it. In all her fears,
too, she consoled herself by the reflection that her lover was hindered, not by want of earnestness
or want of truth,--but by the state of his affairs. While he was still in debt, striving to
save his inheritance, but tormented by the growing certainty that it must pass away from him,
how could he give himself up to love-making and preparations for marriage? Clary made excuses
for him which no one else would have made, and so managed to feed her hopes. "I made him no
answer," she said at last.

"And yet you knew you loved him."

"Yes; I knew that. I can tell you, and I told Patience. But I could not tell him." She paused
a moment thinking whether she could describe the whole scene; but she found that she could
not do that. "I shall tell him, perhaps, when he comes again; that is, if he does come."

"If he loves you he will come."

"I don't know. He has all these troubles on him, and he will be very poor;--what will seem
to him to be very poor. It would not be poor for me, but for him it would."

"Would that hinder him?"

"How can I say? There are so many things a girl cannot know. He may still be in debt, and then
he has been brought up to want so much. But it will make no more difference in me. And now
you will understand why I should tell you that I will never begrudge you your good fortune.
If all should come right, you shall give us a little cottage near your grand house, and you
will not despise us." Poor Clary, when she spoke of her possible future lord, and the little
cottage on the Newton demesne, hardly understood the feelings with which a disinherited heir
must regard the property which he has lost.

"Dear, dearest Clary," said Mary Bonner, pressing her cousin's arm.

They had now reached Mrs. Brownlow's house, and the old lady was delighted to receive them.
Of course she began to discuss at once the great news. Sir Thomas had had his arm broken, and
was now again a member of Parliament. Mrs. Brownlow was a thorough-going Tory, and was in an
ecstasy of delight that her old friend should have been successful. The success seemed to be
so much the greater in that the hero had suffered a broken bone. And then there were many questions
to be asked? Would Sir Thomas again be Solicitor-General by right of his seat in Parliament?--for
on such matters Mrs. Brownlow was rather hazy in her conceptions as to the working of the British
Constitution. And would he live at home? Clarissa would not say that she and Patience expected
such a result. All that she could suggest of comfort on this matter was that there would be
now something of a fair cause for excusing their father's residence at his London chambers.

But there was a subject more enticing to the old lady even than Sir Thomas's triumphs; a subject
as to which there could not be any triumph,--only dismay; but not, on that account, the less
interesting. Ralph Newton had sold his inheritance. "I believe it is all settled," said Clarissa,
demurely.

"Dear, dear, dear, dear!" groaned the old lady. And while she groaned Clarissa furtively cast
a smile upon her cousin. "It is the saddest thing I ever knew," said Mrs. Brownlow. "And, after
all, for a young man who never can be anybody, you know."

"Oh yes," said Clarissa, "he can be somebody."

"You know what I mean, my dear. I think it very shocking, and very wrong. Such a fine estate, too!"

"We all like Mr. Newton very much indeed," said Clarissa. "Papa thinks he is a most charming
young man. I never knew papa taken with any one so much. And so do we all,--Patience and I,--and
Mary."

"But, my dear," began Mrs. Brownlow,--Mrs. Brownlow had always thought that Ralph the heir
would ultimately marry Clarissa Underwood, and that it was a manifest duty on his part to do
so. She had fancied that Clarissa had expected it herself, and had believed that all the Underwoods
would be broken-hearted at this transfer of the estate. "I don't think it can be right," said
Mrs. Brownlow; "and I must say that it seems to me that old Mr. Newton ought to be ashamed
of himself. Just because this young man happens to be, in a sort of a way, his own son, he
is going to destroy the whole family. I think that it is very wicked." But she had not a word
of censure for the heir who had consumed his mess of pottage.

"Wasn't she grand?" said Clary, as soon as they were out again upon the road. "She is such
a dear old woman, but she doesn't understand anything. I couldn't help giving you a look when
she was abusing our friend. When she knows it all, she'll have to make you such an apology."

"I hope she will not do that."

"She will if she does not forget all about it. She does forget things. There is one thing I
don't agree with her in at all. I don't see any shame in your Ralph having the property; and,
as to his being nobody, that is all nonsense. He would be somebody, wherever he went, if he
had not an acre of property. He will be Mr. Newton, of Newton Priory, just as much as anybody
else could be. He has never done anything wrong." To all which Mary Bonner had very little
to say. She certainly was not prepared to blame the present Squire for having so managed his
affairs as to be able to leave the estate to his own son.

The two girls were very energetic, and walked back the whole way to Popham Villa, regardless
of a dozen omnibuses that passed them. "I told her all about our Ralph,--my Ralph,"--said Clary
to her sister afterward. "I could not help telling her now."

"Dear Clary," said Patience, "I wish you could help thinking of it always."

"That's quite impossible," said Clarissa, cheerily.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

ALONE IN THE HOUSE.

Young Newton at last found himself alone in the house at Newton Priory after his father's death.
He had sent George Morris away, becoming very stern in his demand to be left to his solitude
as long as opposition was made to him. Gregory had come down to him from the parsonage, and
had also been dismissed. "Your brother will be here probably to-day," said Ralph, "and then
I will send for you."

"I am thinking more of you than of my brother, just now," answered the parson.

"Yes, I know,--and though I cannot talk to you, I know how good you are. I want to see nobody
but him. I shall be better alone." Then Gregory had returned to the parsonage.

As soon as Ralph was alone he crept up to the room in which his father's body was lying, and
stood silently by the bedside for above an hour. He was struggling to remember the loss he
had had in the man, and to forget the loss in wealth and station. No father had ever been better
to a son than his father had been to him. In every affair of life his happiness, his prosperity,
and his future condition had given motives to his father's conduct. No lover ever worshipped
a mistress more thoroughly than his father had idolised him. There had never been love to beat
it, never solicitude more perfect and devoted. And yet, as he had been driven home that day,
he had allowed his mind to revert to the property, and his regrets to settle themselves on
his lost position. It should not be so any longer. He could not keep his mind from dwelling
on the thing, but he would think of it as a trifle,--as of a thing which he could afford to
lose without sorrow. Whereas he had also lost that which is of all things the most valuable
and most impossible to replace,--a friend whose love was perfect.

But then there was another loss. He bitterly blamed himself for having written that letter
to Sir Thomas Underwood, before he was actually in a position to do as he had proposed. It
must all be unwritten now. Every resolution hitherto taken as to his future life must be abandoned.
He must begin again, and plan a new life for himself. It had all come upon him so suddenly
that he was utterly at a loss to think what he would do with himself or with his days. There
was nothing for him but to go away, and be utterly without occupation, altogether without friends.
Friends, indeed, he had,--dear, intimate, loving friends. Gregory Newton and George Morris
were his friends. Every tenant on the Newton property was his friend. There was not a man riding
with the hunt, worth having as a friend, who was not on friendly terms with him. But all these
he must leave altogether. In whatever spot he might find for himself a future residence, that
spot could not be at Peele Newton. After what had occurred he could not remain there, now that
he was not the heir. And then, again, his thoughts came back from his lost father to his lost
inheritance, and he was very wretched.

Between three and four o'clock he took his hat and walked out. He sauntered down along a small
stream, which, after running through the gardens, bordered one of the coverts which came up
near to the house. He took this path because he knew that he would be alone there, unseen.
It had occurred to him already that it would be well that he should give orders to stop the
works which his father had commenced, and there had been a moment in which he had almost told
one of the servants in the house to do so. But he had felt ashamed at seeming to remember so
small a thing. The owner would be there soon, probably in an hour or two, and could stop or
could continue what he pleased. Then, as he thought of the ownership of the estate, he reflected
that, as the sale had been in truth effected by his namesake, the money promised by his father
would be legally due;--would not now be his money. As to the estate itself, that, of course,
would go to his namesake as his father's heir. No will had been made leaving the estate to
him, and his namesake would be the heir-at-law. Thus he would be utterly beggared. It was not
that he actually believed that this would be the case; but his thoughts were morbid, and he
took an unwholesome delight in picturing to himself circumstances in their blackest hue. Then
he would strike the ground with his stick, in his wrath, because he thought of such things
at all. How was it that he was base enough to think of them while the accident, which had robbed
him of his father, was so recent?

As the dusk grew on, he emerged out of the copse into the park, and, crossing at the back of
the home paddocks, came out upon the road near to Darvell's farm. He passed a few yards up
the lane, till at a turn he could discern the dismantled house. As far as he could see through
the gloom of the evening, there were no workmen near the place. Some one, he presumed, had
given directions that nothing further should be done on a day so sad as this. He stood for
awhile looking and listening, and then turned round to enter the park again.

It might be that the new squire was already at the house, and it would be thought that he ought
not to be absent. The road from the station to the Priory was not that on which he was standing,
and Ralph might have arrived without his knowledge. He wandered slowly back, but, before he
could turn in at the park-gate, he was met by a man on the road. It was Mr. Walker, the farmer
of Brownriggs, an old man over seventy, who had lived on the property all his life, succeeding
his father in the same farm. Walker had known young Newton since he had first been brought
to the Priory as a boy, and could speak to him with more freedom than perhaps any other tenant
on the estate. "Oh, Mr. Ralph," he said, "this has been a dreary thing!" Ralph, for the first
time since the accident, burst out into a flood of tears. "No wonder you take on, Mr. Ralph.
He was a good father to you, and a fine gentleman, and one we all respected." Ralph still sobbed,
but put his hand on the old man's arm and leaned upon him. "I hope, Mr. Ralph, that things
was pretty well settled about the property." Ralph shook his head, but did not speak. "A bargain
is a bargain, Mr. Ralph, and I suppose that this bargain was made. The lawyers would know that
it had been made."

"It don't matter about that, Mr. Walker," said Ralph; "but the estate would go to my father's
nephew as his heir." The farmer started as though he had been shot. "You will have another
landlord, Mr. Walker. He can hardly be better than the one you have lost."

"Then, Mr. Ralph, you must bear it manly."

"I think that I can say that I will do that. It is not for the property that I am crying. I
hope you don't think that of me, Mr. Walker."

"No, no, no."

"I can bear that;--though it is hard the having to go away and live among strange people. I
think I shall get a farm somewhere, and see if I can take a lesson from you. I don't know anything
else that I can do."

"You could have the Mordykes, Mr. Ralph," said Mr. Walker, naming a holding on the Newton property
as to which there were rumours that it would soon be vacant.

"No, Mr. Walker, it mustn't be here. I couldn't stand that. I must go away from this,--God
knows where. I must go away from this, and I shall never see the old place again!"

"Bear it manly, Mr. Ralph," said the farmer.

"I think I shall, after a bit. Good evening, Mr. Walker. I expect my father's nephew every
hour, and I ought to be up at the house when he comes. I shall see you again before I go."

"Yes, yes; that's for certain," said the farmer. They were both thinking of the day on which
they would follow the old Squire to his grave in Newton Peele churchyard.

Ralph re-entered the park, and hurried across to the house as though he were afraid that he
would be too late to receive the heir; but there had been no arrival, nor had there come any
message from the other Ralph. Indeed up to this hour the news had not reached the present owner
of Newton Priory. The telegram had been duly delivered at the Moonbeam, where the fortunate
youth was staying; but he was hunting on this day, riding the new horse which he had bought
from Mr. Pepper, and, up to this moment, did not know anything of that which chance had done
for him. Nor did he get back to the Moonbeam till late at night, having made some engagement
for dinner after the day's sport. It was not till noon on the following day, the Friday, that
a message was received from him at the Priory, saying that he would at once hurry down to Hampshire.

Ralph sat down to dinner all alone. Let what will happen to break hearts and ruin fortunes,
dinner comes as long as the means last for providing it. The old butler waited upon him in
absolute silence, fearing to speak a word, lest the word at such a time should be ill-spoken.
No doubt the old man was thinking of the probable expedience of his retiring upon his savings;
feeling, however, that it became him to show, till the last, every respect to all who bore
the honoured name of Newton. When the meat had been eaten, the old servant did say a word.
"Won't you come round to the fire, Mr. Ralph?" and he placed comfortably before the hearth
one of the heavy arm-chairs with which the corners of the broad fire-place were flanked. But
Ralph only shook his head, and muttered some refusal. There he sat, square to the table, with
the customary bottle of wine before him, leaning back with his hands in his pockets, thinking
of his condition in life. The loneliness of the room, the loneliness of the house, were horrible
to him. And yet he would not that his solitude should be interrupted. He had been so sitting,
motionless, almost overcome by the gloom of the big dark room, for so long a period that he
hardly knew whether it was night or not, when a note was brought to him from Gregory. "Dear
Ralph,--Shall I not come down to you for an hour?--G. N." He read the note, and sent back a
verbal message. "Tell Mr. Gregory that I had rather not." And so he sat motionless till the
night had really come, till the old butler brought him his candlestick and absolutely bade
him betake himself to bed. He had watched during the whole of the previous night, and now had
slumbered in his chair from time to time. But his sleeping had been of that painful, wakeful
nature which brings with it no refreshment. It had been full of dreams, in all of which there
had been some grotesque reference to the property, but in none of them had there been any memory
of the Squire's terrible death. And yet, as he woke and woke and woke again, it can hardly
be said that the truth had come back upon him as a new blow. Through such dreams there seems
to exist a double memory, and a second identity. The misery of his isolated position never
for a moment left him; and yet there were repeated to him over and over again those bungling,
ill-arranged, impossible pictures of trivial transactions about the place, which the slumber
of a few seconds sufficed to create in his brain. "Mr. Ralph, you must go to bed;--you must
indeed, sir," said the old butler, standing over him with a candle during one of these fitful
dreamings.

"Yes, Grey;--yes, I will; directly. Put it down. Thank you. Don't mind sitting up," said Ralph,
rousing himself in his chair.

"It's past twelve," Mr. Ralph.

"You can go to bed, you know, Grey."

"No, sir;--no. I'll see you to bed first. It'll be better so. Why, Mr. Ralph, the fire's all
out, and you're sitting here perished. You wasn't in bed last night, and you ought to be there
now. Come, Mr. Ralph."

Then Ralph rose from his chair and took the candlestick. It was true enough that he had better
be in bed. As he shook himself, he felt that he had never been so cold in his life. And then
as he moved there came upon him that terrible feeling that everything was amiss with him, that
there was no consolation on any side. "That'll do, Grey; good night," he said, as the old man
prepared to follow him up-stairs. But Grey was not to be shaken off. "I'll just see you to
your room, Mr. Ralph." He wanted to accompany his young master past the door of that chamber
in which was lying all that remained of the old master. But Ralph would open the door. "Not
to-night, Mr. Ralph," said Grey. But Ralph persisted, and stood again by the bedside. "He would
have given me his flesh and blood;--his very life," said Ralph to the butler. "I think no father
ever so loved a son. And yet, what has it come to?" Then he stooped down, and put his lips
to the cold clay-blue forehead.

"It ain't come to much surely," said old Grey to himself as he crept away to his own room;
"and I don't suppose it do come to much mostly when folks go wrong."

Ralph was out again before breakfast, wandering up and down the banks of the stream where the
wood hid him, and then he made up his mind that he would at once write again to Sir Thomas
Underwood. He must immediately make it understood that that suggestion which he had made in
his ill-assumed pride of position must be abandoned. He had nothing now to offer to that queenly
princess worthy of the acceptance of any woman. He was a base-born son, about to be turned
out of his father's house because of the disgrace of his birth. In the eye of the law he was
nobody. The law allowed to him not even a name;--certainly allowed to him the possession of
no relative; denied to him the possibility of any family tie. His father had succeeded within
an ace of giving him that which would have created for him family ties, relatives, name and
all. The old Squire had understood well how to supersede the law, and to make the harshness
of man's enactments of no avail. Had the Squire quite succeeded, the son would have stood his
ground, would have called himself Newton of Newton, and nobody would have dared to tell him
that he was a nameless bastard. But now he could not even wait to be told. He must tell it
himself, and must vanish. He had failed to understand it all while his father was struggling
and was yet alive; but he understood it well now. So he came in to his breakfast, resolved
that he would write that letter at once.

And then there were orders to be given;--hideous orders. And there was that hideous remembrance
that legally he was entitled to give no orders. Gregory came down to him as he sat at breakfast,
making his way into the parlour without excuse. "My brother cannot have been at home at either
place," he said.

"Perhaps not," said Ralph. "I suppose not."

"The message will be sent after him, and you will hear to-day no doubt."

"I suppose I shall," said Ralph.

Then Gregory in a low voice made the suggestion in reference to which he had come across from
the parsonage. "I think that perhaps I and Larkin had better go over to Basingstoke." Larkin
was the steward. Ralph again burst out into tears, but he assented; and in this way those hideous
orders were given.

As soon as Gregory was gone he took himself to his desk, and did write to Sir Thomas Underwood.
His letter, which was perhaps somewhat too punctilious, ran as follows:--

   Newton Priory, 4th November, 186--.

   MY DEAR SIR,--

   I do not know whether you will have heard before this of
   the accident which has made me fatherless. The day before
   yesterday my father was killed by a fall from his horse in
   the hunting-field. I should not have ventured to trouble
   you with a letter on this subject, nor should I myself
   have been disposed to write about it at present, were
   it not that I feel it to be an imperative duty to refer
   without delay to my last letter to you, and to your very
   flattering reply. When I wrote to you it was true that
   my father had made arrangements for purchasing on my
   behalf the reversion to the property. That it was so you
   doubtless were aware from your own personal knowledge
   of the affairs of Mr. Ralph Newton. Whether that sale
   was or was not legally completed I do not know. Probably
   not;--and in regard to my own interests it is to be hoped
   that it was not completed. But in any event the whole
   Newton property will pass to your late ward, as my father
   certainly made no such will as would convey it to me even
   if the sale were complete.

   It is a sad time for explaining all this, when the body of
   my poor father is still lying unburied in the house, and
   when, as you may imagine, I am ill-fitted to think of
   matters of business; but, after what has passed between
   us, I conceive myself bound to explain to you that I wrote
   my last letter under a false impression, and that I can
   make no such claim to Miss Bonner's favour as I then set
   up. I am houseless and nameless, and for aught I yet know
   to the contrary, absolutely penniless. The blow has hit
   me very hard. I have lost my fortune, which I can bear;
   I have lost whatever chance I had of gaining your niece's
   hand, which I must learn to bear; and I have lost the
   kindest father a man ever had,--which is unbearable.

   Yours very faithfully,

   RALPH NEWTON (so called).

If it be thought that there was something in the letter which should have been suppressed,--the
allusion, for instance, to the possible but most improbable loss of his father's private means,
and his morbid denial of his own right to a name which he had always borne, a right which no
one would deny him,--it must be remembered that the circumstances of the hour bore very heavily
on him, and that it was hardly possible that he should not nurse the grievance which afflicted
him. Had he not been alone in these hours he might have carried himself more bravely. As it
was, he struggled hard to carry himself well. If no one had ever been told how nearly successful
the Squire had been in his struggle to gain the power of leaving the estate to his son, had
there been nothing of the triumph of victory, he could have left the house in which he had
lived and the position which he had filled almost without sorrow,--certainly without lamentation.
In the midst of calamities caused by the loss of fortune, it is the knowledge of what the world
will say that breaks us down;--not regret for those enjoyments which wealth can give, and which
had been long anticipated.

At two o'clock on this day he got a telegram. "I will be at the parsonage this evening, and
will come down at once." Ralph the heir, on his return home late at night, had heard the news,
and early on the following morning had communicated with his brother and with his namesake.
In the afternoon, after his return from Basingstoke, Gregory again came down to the house,
desiring to know whether Ralph would prefer that the meeting should be at the Priory or at
the parsonage, and on this occasion his cousin bore with him. "Why should not your brother
come to his own house?" asked Ralph.

"I suppose he feels that he should not claim it as his own."

"That is nonsense. It is his own, and he knows it. Does he think that I am likely to raise
any question against his right?"

"I do not suppose that my brother has ever looked at the matter in that light," said the parson.
"He is the last man in the world to do so. For the present, at any rate, you are living here
and he is not. In such an emergency, perhaps, he feels that it would be better that he should
come to his brother than intrude here."

"It would be no intrusion. I should wish him to feel that I am prepared to yield to him instantly.
Of course the house cannot be very pleasant for him as yet. He must suffer something of the
misery of the occasion before he can enjoy his inheritance. But it will only be for a day or so."

"Dear Ralph," said the parson, "I think you somewhat wrong my brother."

"I endeavour not to do so. I think no ill of him, because I presume he should look for enjoyment
from what is certainly his own. He and my father were not friends, and this, which has been
to me so terrible a calamity in every way, cannot affect him with serious sorrow. I shall meet
him as a friend; but I would sooner meet him here than at the parsonage."

It was at last settled that the two brothers should come down to the great house,--both Ralph
the heir, and Gregory the parson; and that the three young men should remain there, at any
rate, till the funeral was over. And when this was arranged, the two who had really been fast
friends for so many years, were able to talk to each other in true friendship. The solitude
which he had endured had been almost too much for the one who had been made so desolate; but
at last, warmed by the comfort of companionship, he resumed his manhood, and was able to look
his affairs in the face, free from the morbid feeling which had oppressed him. Gregory had
his own things brought down from the parsonage, and in order that there might be no hesitation
on his brother's part, sent a servant with a note to the station desiring his brother to come
at once to the Priory. They resolved to wait dinner for him till after the arrival of a train
leaving London at five P.M. By that train the heir came, and between seven and eight he entered
the house which he had not seen since he was a boy, and which was now his own.

The receipt of the telegram at the Moonbeam had affected Ralph, who was now in truth the Squire,
with absolute awe. He had returned late from a somewhat jovial dinner, in company with his
friend Cox, who was indeed more jovial than was becoming. Ralph was not given to drinking more
wine than he could carry decently; but his friend, who was determined to crowd as much enjoyment
of life as was possible into the small time allowed him before his disappearance from the world
that had known him, was noisy and rollicking. Perhaps it may be acknowledged in plain terms
that he was tipsy. They both entered together the sitting-room which Ralph used, and Cox was
already calling for brandy and water, when the telegram was handed to Newton. He read it twice
before he understood it. His uncle dead!--suddenly dead! And the inheritance all his own! In
doing him justice, however, we must admit that he did not at the time admit this to be the
case. He did perceive that there must arise some question; but his first feeling, as regarded
the property, was one of intense remorse that he should have sold his rights at a moment in
which they would so soon have been realised in his own favour. But the awe which struck him
was occasioned by the suddenness of the blow which had fallen upon his uncle. "What's up now,
old fellow?" hiccupped Mr. Cox.

I wonder whether any polite reader, into whose hands this story may fall, may ever have possessed
a drunken friend, and have been struck by some solemn incident at the moment in which his friend
is exercising the privileges of intoxication. The effect is not pleasant, nor conducive of
good-humour. Ralph turned away in disgust, and leaned upon the chimney-piece, trying to think
of what had occurred to him. "What ish it, old chap? Shomebody wants shome tin? I'll stand
to you, old fellow."

"Take him away," said Ralph. "He's drunk." Then, without waiting for further remonstrance from
the good-natured but now indignant Cox, he went off to his own room.

On the following morning he started for London by an early train, and by noon was with his
lawyer. Up to that moment he believed that he had lost his inheritance. When he sent those
two telegrams to his brother and to his namesake, he hardly doubted but that the entire property
now belonged to his uncle's son. The idea had never occurred to him that, even were the sale
complete, he might still inherit the property as his uncle's heir-at-law,--and that he would
do so unless his uncle had already bequeathed it to his son. But the attorney soon put him
right. The sale had not been yet made. He, Ralph, had not signed a single legal document to
that effect. He had done nothing which would have enabled his late uncle to make a will leaving
the Newton estate to his son. "The letters which have been written are all waste-paper," said
the lawyer. "Even if they were to be taken as binding as agreements for a covenant, they would
operate against your cousin,--not in his favour. In such case you would demand the specified
price and still inherit."

"That is out of the question," said the heir. "Quite out of the question," said the attorney.
"No doubt Mr. Newton left a will, and under it his son will take whatever property the father
had to leave."

