The nineteenth century saw the same lesson repeated in England. It had its Utilitarians, its
Christian Socialists, its Fabians (still extant): it had Bentham, Mill, Dickens, Ruskin, Carlyle,
Butler, Henry George, and Morris. And the end of all their efforts is the Chicago described
by Mr Upton Sinclair, and the London in which the people who pay to be amused by my dramatic
representation of Peter Shirley turned out to starve at forty because there are younger slaves
to be had for his wages, do not take, and have not the slightest intention of taking, any effective
step to organize society in such a way as to make that everyday infamy impossible. I, who have
preached and pamphleteered like any Encyclopedist, have to confess that my methods are no use,
and would be no use if I were Voltaire, Rousseau, Bentham, Mill, Dickens, Carlyle, Ruskin,
George, Butler, and Morris all rolled into one, with Euripides, More, Moliere, Shakespear,
Beaumarchais, Swift, Goethe, Ibsen, Tolstoy, Moses and the prophets all thrown in (as indeed
in some sort I actually am, standing as I do on all their shoulders). The problem being to
make heroes out of cowards, we paper apostles and artist-magicians have succeeded only in giving
cowards all the sensations of heroes whilst they tolerate every abomination, accept every plunder,
and submit to every oppression. Christianity, in making a merit of such submission, has marked
only that depth in the abyss at which the very sense of shame is lost. The Christian has been
like Dickens' doctor in the debtor's prison, who tells the newcomer of its ineffable peace
and security: no duns; no tyrannical collectors of rates, taxes, and rent; no importunate hopes
nor exacting duties; nothing but the rest and safety of having no further to fall.

Yet in the poorest corner of this soul-destroying Christendom vitality suddenly begins to germinate
again. Joyousness, a sacred gift long dethroned by the hellish laughter of derision and obscenity,
rises like a flood miraculously out of the fetid dust and mud of the slums; rousing marches
and impetuous dithyrambs rise to the heavens from people among whom the depressing noise called
"sacred music" is a standing joke; a flag with Blood and Fire on it is unfurled, not in murderous
rancor, but because fire is beautiful and blood a vital and splendid red; Fear, which we flatter
by calling Self, vanishes; and transfigured men and women carry their gospel through a transfigured
world, calling their leader General, themselves captains and brigadiers, and their whole body
an Army: praying, but praying only for refreshment, for strength to fight, and for needful
MONEY (a notable sign, that); preaching, but not preaching submission; daring ill-usage and
abuse, but not putting up with more of it than is inevitable; and practising what the world
will let them practise, including soap and water, color and music. There is danger in such
Activity; and where there is danger there is hope. Our present security is nothing, and can
be nothing, but evil made irresistible.

WEAKNESSES OF THE SALVATION ARMY.

For the present, however, it is not my business to flatter the Salvation Army. Rather must
I point out to it that it has almost as many weaknesses as the Church of England itself. It
is building up a business organization which will compel it eventually to see that its present
staff of enthusiast-commanders shall be succeeded by a bureaucracy of men of business who will
be no better than bishops, and perhaps a good deal more unscrupulous. That has always happened
sooner or later to great orders founded by saints; and the order founded by St William Booth
is not exempt from the same danger. It is even more dependent than the Church on rich people
who would cut off supplies at once if it began to preach that indispensable revolt against
poverty which must also be a revolt against riches. It is hampered by a heavy contingent of
pious elders who are not really Salvationists at all, but Evangelicals of the old school. It
still, as Commissioner Howard affirms, "sticks to Moses," which is flat nonsense at this time
of day if the Commissioner means, as I am afraid he does, that the Book of Genesis contains
a trustworthy scientific account of the origin of species, and that the god to whom Jephthah
sacrificed his daughter is any less obviously a tribal idol than Dagon or Chemosh.

Further, there is still too much other-worldliness about the Army. Like Frederick's grenadier,
the Salvationist wants to live for ever (the most monstrous way of crying for the moon); and
though it is evident to anyone who has ever heard General Booth and his best officers that
they would work as hard for human salvation as they do at present if they believed that death
would be the end of them individually, they and their followers have a bad habit of talking
as if the Salvationists were heroically enduring a very bad time on earth as an investment
which will bring them in dividends later on in the form, not of a better life to come for the
whole world, but of an eternity spent by themselves personally in a sort of bliss which would
bore any active person to a second death. Surely the truth is that the Salvationists are unusually
happy people. And is it not the very diagnostic of true salvation that it shall overcome the
fear of death? Now the man who has come to believe that there is no such thing as death, the
change so called being merely the transition to an exquisitely happy and utterly careless life,
has not overcome the fear of death at all: on the contrary, it has overcome him so completely
that he refuses to die on any terms whatever. I do not call a Salvationist really saved until
he is ready to lie down cheerfully on the scrap heap, having paid scot and lot and something
over, and let his eternal life pass on to renew its youth in the battalions of the future.

Then there is the nasty lying habit called confession, which the Army encourages because it
lends itself to dramatic oratory, with plenty of thrilling incident. For my part, when I hear
a convert relating the violences and oaths and blasphemies he was guilty of before he was saved,
making out that he was a very terrible fellow then and is the most contrite and chastened of
Christians now, I believe him no more than I believe the millionaire who says he came up to
London or Chicago as a boy with only three halfpence in his pocket. Salvationists have said
to me that Barbara in my play would never have been taken in by so transparent a humbug as
Snobby Price; and certainly I do not think Snobby could have taken in any experienced Salvationist
on a point on which the Salvationist did not wish to be taken in. But on the point of conversion
all Salvationists wish to be taken in; for the more obvious the sinner the more obvious the
miracle of his conversion. When you advertize a converted burglar or reclaimed drunkard as
one of the attractions at an experience meeting, your burglar can hardly have been too burglarious
or your drunkard too drunken. As long as such attractions are relied on, you will have your
Snobbies claiming to have beaten their mothers when they were as a matter of prosaic fact habitually
beaten by them, and your Rummies of the tamest respectability pretending to a past of reckless
and dazzling vice. Even when confessions are sincerely autobiographic there is no reason to
assume at once that the impulse to make them is pious or the interest of the hearers wholesome.
It might as well be assumed that the poor people who insist on showing appalling ulcers to
district visitors are convinced hygienists, or that the curiosity which sometimes welcomes
such exhibitions is a pleasant and creditable one. One is often tempted to suggest that those
who pester our police superintendents with confessions of murder might very wisely be taken
at their word and executed, except in the few cases in which a real murderer is seeking to
be relieved of his guilt by confession and expiation. For though I am not, I hope, an unmerciful
person, I do not think that the inexorability of the deed once done should be disguised by
any ritual, whether in the confessional or on the scaffold.

And here my disagreement with the Salvation Army, and with all propagandists of the Cross (to
which I object as I object to all gibbets) becomes deep indeed. Forgiveness, absolution, atonement,
are figments: punishment is only a pretence of cancelling one crime by another; and you can
no more have forgiveness without vindictiveness than you can have a cure without a disease.
You will never get a high morality from people who conceive that their misdeeds are revocable
and pardonable, or in a society where absolution and expiation are officially provided for
us all. The demand may be very real; but the supply is spurious. Thus Bill Walker, in my play,
having assaulted the Salvation Lass, presently finds himself overwhelmed with an intolerable
conviction of sin under the skilled treatment of Barbara. Straightway he begins to try to unassault
the lass and deruffianize his deed, first by getting punished for it in kind, and, when that
relief is denied him, by fining himself a pound to compensate the girl. He is foiled both ways.
He finds the Salvation Army as inexorable as fact itself. It will not punish him: it will not
take his money. It will not tolerate a redeemed ruffian: it leaves him no means of salvation
except ceasing to be a ruffian. In doing this, the Salvation Army instinctively grasps the
central truth of Christianity and discards its central superstition: that central truth being
the vanity of revenge and punishment, and that central superstition the salvation of the world
by the gibbet.

For, be it noted, Bill has assaulted an old and starving woman also; and for this worse offence
he feels no remorse whatever, because she makes it clear that her malice is as great as his
own. "Let her have the law of me, as she said she would," says Bill: "what I done to her is
no more on what you might call my conscience than sticking a pig." This shows a perfectly natural
and wholesome state of mind on his part. The old woman, like the law she threatens him with,
is perfectly ready to play the game of retaliation with him: to rob him if he steals, to flog
him if he strikes, to murder him if he kills. By example and precept the law and public opinion
teach him to impose his will on others by anger, violence, and cruelty, and to wipe off the
moral score by punishment. That is sound Crosstianity. But this Crosstianity has got entangled
with something which Barbara calls Christianity, and which unexpectedly causes her to refuse
to play the hangman's game of Satan casting out Satan. She refuses to prosecute a drunken ruffian;
she converses on equal terms with a blackguard whom no lady could be seen speaking to in the
public street: in short, she behaves as illegally and unbecomingly as possible under the circumstances.
Bill's conscience reacts to this just as naturally as it does to the old woman's threats. He
is placed in a position of unbearable moral inferiority, and strives by every means in his
power to escape from it, whilst he is still quite ready to meet the abuse of the old woman
by attempting to smash a mug on her face. And that is the triumphant justification of Barbara's
Christianity as against our system of judicial punishment and the vindictive villain-thrashings
and "poetic justice" of the romantic stage.

For the credit of literature it must be pointed out that the situation is only partly novel.
Victor Hugo long ago gave us the epic of the convict and the bishop's candlesticks, of the
Crosstian policeman annihilated by his encounter with the Christian Valjean. But Bill Walker
is not, like Valjean, romantically changed from a demon into an angel. There are millions of
Bill Walkers in all classes of society to-day; and the point which I, as a professor of natural
psychology, desire to demonstrate, is that Bill, without any change in his character whatsoever,
will react one way to one sort of treatment and another way to another.

In proof I might point to the sensational object lesson provided by our commercial millionaires
to-day. They begin as brigands: merciless, unscrupulous, dealing out ruin and death and slavery
to their competitors and employees, and facing desperately the worst that their competitors
can do to them. The history of the English factories, the American trusts, the exploitation
of African gold, diamonds, ivory and rubber, outdoes in villainy the worst that has ever been
imagined of the buccaneers of the Spanish Main. Captain Kidd would have marooned a modern Trust
magnate for conduct unworthy of a gentleman of fortune. The law every day seizes on unsuccessful
scoundrels of this type and punishes them with a cruelty worse than their own, with the result
that they come out of the torture house more dangerous than they went in, and renew their evil
doing (nobody will employ them at anything else) until they are again seized, again tormented,
and again let loose, with the same result.

But the successful scoundrel is dealt with very differently, and very Christianly. He is not
only forgiven: he is idolized, respected, made much of, all but worshipped. Society returns
him good for evil in the most extravagant overmeasure. And with what result? He begins to idolize
himself, to respect himself, to live up to the treatment he receives. He preaches sermons;
he writes books of the most edifying advice to young men, and actually persuades himself that
he got on by taking his own advice; he endows educational institutions; he supports charities;
he dies finally in the odor of sanctity, leaving a will which is a monument of public spirit
and bounty. And all this without any change in his character. The spots of the leopard and
the stripes of the tiger are as brilliant as ever; but the conduct of the world towards him
has changed; and his conduct has changed accordingly. You have only to reverse your attitude
towards him--to lay hands on his property, revile him, assault him, and he will be a brigand
again in a moment, as ready to crush you as you are to crush him, and quite as full of pretentious
moral reasons for doing it.

In short, when Major Barbara says that there are no scoundrels, she is right: there are no
absolute scoundrels, though there are impracticable people of whom I shall treat presently.
Every practicable man (and woman) is a potential scoundrel and a potential good citizen. What
a man is depends on his character; but what he does, and what we think of what he does, depends
on his circumstances. The characteristics that ruin a man in one class make him eminent in
another. The characters that behave differently in different circumstances behave alike in
similar circumstances. Take a common English character like that of Bill Walker. We meet Bill
everywhere: on the judicial bench, on the episcopal bench, in the Privy Council, at the War
Office and Admiralty, as well as in the Old Bailey dock or in the ranks of casual unskilled
labor. And the morality of Bill's characteristics varies with these various circumstances.
The faults of the burglar are the qualities of the financier: the manners and habits of a duke
would cost a city clerk his situation. In short, though character is independent of circumstances,
conduct is not; and our moral judgments of character are not: both are circumstantial. Take
any condition of life in which the circumstances are for a mass of men practically alike: felony,
the House of Lords, the factory, the stables, the gipsy encampment or where you please! In
spite of diversity of character and temperament, the conduct and morals of the individuals
in each group are as predicable and as alike in the main as if they were a flock of sheep,
morals being mostly only social habits and circumstantial necessities. Strong people know this
and count upon it. In nothing have the master-minds of the world been distinguished from the
ordinary suburban season-ticket holder more than in their straightforward perception of the
fact that mankind is practically a single species, and not a menagerie of gentlemen and bounders,
villains and heroes, cowards and daredevils, peers and peasants, grocers and aristocrats, artisans
and laborers, washerwomen and duchesses, in which all the grades of income and caste represent
distinct animals who must not be introduced to one another or intermarry. Napoleon constructing
a galaxy of generals and courtiers, and even of monarchs, out of his collection of social nobodies;
Julius Caesar appointing as governor of Egypt the son of a freedman--one who but a short time
before would have been legally disqualified for the post even of a private soldier in the Roman
army; Louis XI making his barber his privy councillor: all these had in their different ways
a firm hold of the scientific fact of human equality, expressed by Barbara in the Christian
formula that all men are children of one father. A man who believes that men are naturally
divided into upper and lower and middle classes morally is making exactly the same mistake
as the man who believes that they are naturally divided in the same way socially. And just
as our persistent attempts to found political institutions on a basis of social inequality
have always produced long periods of destructive friction relieved from time to time by violent
explosions of revolution; so the attempt--will Americans please note--to found moral institutions
on a basis of moral inequality can lead to nothing but unnatural Reigns of the Saints relieved
by licentious Restorations; to Americans who have made divorce a public institution turning
the face of Europe into one huge sardonic smile by refusing to stay in the same hotel with
a Russian man of genius who has changed wives without the sanction of South Dakota; to grotesque
hypocrisy, cruel persecution, and final utter confusion of conventions and compliances with
benevolence and respectability. It is quite useless to declare that all men are born free if
you deny that they are born good. Guarantee a man's goodness and his liberty will take care
of itself. To guarantee his freedom on condition that you approve of his moral character is
formally to abolish all freedom whatsoever, as every man's liberty is at the mercy of a moral
indictment, which any fool can trump up against everyone who violates custom, whether as a
prophet or as a rascal. This is the lesson Democracy has to learn before it can become anything
but the most oppressive of all the priesthoods.

Let us now return to Bill Walker and his case of conscience against the Salvation Army. Major
Barbara, not being a modern Tetzel, or the treasurer of a hospital, refuses to sell Bill absolution
for a sovereign. Unfortunately, what the Army can afford to refuse in the case of Bill Walker,
it cannot refuse in the case of Bodger. Bodger is master of the situation because he holds
the purse strings. "Strive as you will," says Bodger, in effect: "me you cannot do without.
You cannot save Bill Walker without my money." And the Army answers, quite rightly under the
circumstances, "We will take money from the devil himself sooner than abandon the work of Salvation."
So Bodger pays his conscience-money and gets the absolution that is refused to Bill. In real
life Bill would perhaps never know this. But I, the dramatist, whose business it is to show
the connexion between things that seem apart and unrelated in the haphazard order of events
in real life, have contrived to make it known to Bill, with the result that the Salvation Army
loses its hold of him at once.

But Bill may not be lost, for all that. He is still in the grip of the facts and of his own
conscience, and may find his taste for blackguardism permanently spoiled. Still, I cannot guarantee
that happy ending. Let anyone walk through the poorer quarters of our cities when the men are
not working, but resting and chewing the cud of their reflections; and he will find that there
is one expression on every mature face: the expression of cynicism. The discovery made by Bill
Walker about the Salvation Army has been made by every one of them. They have found that every
man has his price; and they have been foolishly or corruptly taught to mistrust and despise
him for that necessary and salutary condition of social existence. When they learn that General
Booth, too, has his price, they do not admire him because it is a high one, and admit the need
of organizing society so that he shall get it in an honorable way: they conclude that his character
is unsound and that all religious men are hypocrites and allies of their sweaters and oppressors.
They know that the large subscriptions which help to support the Army are endowments, not of
religion, but of the wicked doctrine of docility in poverty and humility under oppression;
and they are rent by the most agonizing of all the doubts of the soul, the doubt whether their
true salvation must not come from their most abhorrent passions, from murder, envy, greed,
stubbornness, rage, and terrorism, rather than from public spirit, reasonableness, humanity,
generosity, tenderness, delicacy, pity and kindness. The confirmation of that doubt, at which
our newspapers have been working so hard for years past, is the morality of militarism; and
the justification of militarism is that circumstances may at any time make it the true morality
of the moment. It is by producing such moments that we produce violent and sanguinary revolutions,
such as the one now in progress in Russia and the one which Capitalism in England and America
is daily and diligently provoking.

At such moments it becomes the duty of the Churches to evoke all the powers of destruction
against the existing order. But if they do this, the existing order must forcibly suppress
them. Churches are suffered to exist only on condition that they preach submission to the State
as at present capitalistically organized. The Church of England itself is compelled to add
to the thirty-six articles in which it formulates its religious tenets, three more in which
it apologetically protests that the moment any of these articles comes in conflict with the
State it is to be entirely renounced, abjured, violated, abrogated and abhorred, the policeman
being a much more important person than any of the Persons of the Trinity. And this is why
no tolerated Church nor Salvation Army can ever win the entire confidence of the poor. It must
be on the side of the police and the military, no matter what it believes or disbelieves; and
as the police and the military are the instruments by which the rich rob and oppress the poor
(on legal and moral principles made for the purpose), it is not possible to be on the side
of the poor and of the police at the same time. Indeed the religious bodies, as the almoners
of the rich, become a sort of auxiliary police, taking off the insurrectionary edge of poverty
with coals and blankets, bread and treacle, and soothing and cheering the victims with hopes
of immense and inexpensive happiness in another world when the process of working them to premature
death in the service of the rich is complete in this.

