LINE & FORM

                              BY WALTER CRANE

                       LONDON: G. BELL & SONS, LTD.

                    First published, medium 8vo, 1900.

            Reprinted, crown 8vo, 1902, 1904, 1908, 1912, 1914.
In this etext, the same topic phrases can be found right-aligned above
the paragraph that begins that topic. Thus a topic can be found by
scrolling the text and scanning the right margin.

The original of this work is copiously illustrated. Although this etext cannot include the
figures, it does include their caption as lines like the following:

Here f002 is a numeric label for the figure. Because an etext of this type does not have page
numbers, in references to a figure in the List of Illustrations and in the Index these figure
labels are used instead of page number. In the body text, references to figures by page number
have been supplemented with the figure labels.

The illustrations f006, f007, f008 and f016 do not have captions in the original and descriptive
captions have been added.

The caret is used to indicate superscripts, for example ED^wd^ indicates ED followed by a small
superscript "wd".

Two minor typographical errors were corrected: "thing" to "think" on page 10 and "intregal"
to "integral" on page 197.

                                 PREFACE

As in the case of "The Bases of Design," to which this is intended to form a companion volume,
the substance of the following chapters on Line and Form originally formed a series of lectures
delivered to the students of the Manchester Municipal School of Art.

There is no pretension to an exhaustive treatment of a subject it would be difficult enough
to exhaust, and it is dealt with in a way intended to bear rather upon the practical work of
an art school, and to be suggestive and helpful to those face to face with the current problems
of drawing and design.

These have been approached from a personal point of view, as the results of conclusions arrived
at in the course of a busy working life which has left but few intervals for the elaboration
of theories apart from practice, and such as they are, these papers are now offered to the
wider circle of students and workers in the arts of design as from one of themselves.

They were illustrated largely by means of rough sketching in line before my student audience,
as well as by photographs and drawings. The rough diagrams have been re-drawn, and the other
illustrations reproduced, so that both line and tone blocks are used, uniformity being sacrificed
to fidelity.

                                    WALTER CRANE.
     Kensington, July, 1900.

                                 CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

  Origin and Function of Outline--Silhouette--Definition of Boundaries
  by--Power of Characterization by--Formation of Letters--Methods of
  Drawing in Line--The Progressive Method--The Calligraphic Method--The
  Tentative Method--The Japanese Direct Brush Method--The Oval Method--
  The Rectangular Method--Quality of Line--Linear Expression of
  Movement--Textures--Emotion--Scale of Linear Expression                 1

CHAPTER II

  The Language of Line--Dialects--Comparison of the Style of Various
  Artists in Line--Scale of Degrees in Line--Picture Writing--Relation
  of Line to Form--Two Paths--The Graphic Purpose--Aspect--The
  Ornamental Purpose--Typical Treatment or Convention--Rhythm--Linear
  Plans in Pattern Designing--Wall-paper Design--Controlling
  Forms--Memory--Evolution in Design--Variety in Unity--
  Counterbalance--Linear Logic--Recurring Line and Form--Principle
  of Radiation--Range and Use of Line                                    23

CHAPTER III

  Of the Choice and Use of Line--Degree and Emphasis--Influence of the
  Photograph--The Value of Emphasis--The Technical Influence--The
  Artistic Purpose--Influence of Material and Tools--Brushwork--
  Charcoal--Pencil--Pen                                                  51

CHAPTER IV

  Of the Choice of Form--Elementary Forms--Space-filling--Grouping--
  Analogies of Form--Typical Forms of Ornament--Ornamental Units--
  Equivalents in Form--Quantities in Design--Contrast--Value of
  Variations of Similar or Allied Forms--Use of the Human Figure
  and Animal Forms in Ornamental Design                                  73

CHAPTER V

  Of the Influence of Controlling Lines, Boundaries Spaces, and Plans in
  Designing--Origin of Geometric Decorative Spaces and Panels in
  Architecture--Value of Recurring Line--Tradition--Extension--
  Adaptability--Geometric Structural Plans--Frieze and Field--
  Ceiling Decoration--Co-operative Relation                             108

CHAPTER VI

  Of the Fundamental Essentials of Design: Line, Form, Space--Principles
  of Structural and Ornamental Line in Organic Forms--Form and Mass in
  Foliage--Roofs--The Mediæval City--Organic and Accidental
  Beauty--Composition: Formal and Informal--Power of Linear
  Expression--Relation of Masses and Lines--Principles of Harmonious
  Composition                                                           138

CHAPTER VII

  Of the Relief of Form--Three Methods--Contrast--Light and Shade, and
  Modelling--The Use of Contrast and Planes in Pattern
  Designing--Decorative Relief--Simple Linear Contrast--Relief by Linear
  Shading--Different Emphasis in relieving Form by Shading Lines--Relief
  by means of Light and Shade alone without Outline--Photographic
  Projection--Relief by different Planes and Contrasts of Concave and
  Convex Surfaces in Architectural Mouldings--Modelled Relief--
  Decorative Use of Light and Shade, and different Planes in Modelling
  and Carving--Egyptian System of Relief Sculpture--Greek and Gothic
  Architectural Sculpture, influenced by Structural and Ornamental
  Feeling--Sculptural Tombs, Medals, Coins, Gems--Florentine
  Fifteenth-century Reliefs--Desiderio di Settignano                    165

CHAPTER VIII

  Of the Expression of Relief in Line-drawing--Graphic Aim and
  Ornamental Aim--Superficial Appearance and Constructive
  Reality--Accidents and Essentials--Representation and Suggestion of
  Natural Form in Design--The Outward Vision and the Inner Vision       204

CHAPTER IX

  Of the Adaptation of Line and Form in Design, in various materials and
  methods--Mural Decoration--Fresco-work of the Italian Painters--
  Modern Mural Work--Mural Spacing and Pattern Plans--Scale--The
  Skirting--The Dado--Field of the Wall--The Frieze--Panelling--
  Tapestry--Textile Design--Persian Carpets--Effect of Texture on
  Colour--Prints--Wall-paper--Stained Glass                             224

CHAPTER X

  Of the Expression and Relief of Line and Form by Colour--Effect of
  same Colour upon different Grounds--Radiation of Colour--White Outline
  to clear Colours--Quality of Tints relieved upon other Tints--
  Complementaries--Harmony--The Colour Sense--Colour Proportions--
  Importance of Pure Tints--Tones and Planes--The Tone of Time--
  Pattern and Picture--A Pattern not necessarily a Picture, but a
  Picture in principle a Pattern--Chiaroscuro--Examples of Pattern-work
  and Picture-work--Picture-patterns and Pattern-pictures               256

INDEX                                                                   283

                          LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 The Origin of Outline                                                 f002

 Silhouettes                                                           f003

 Coast and Mountain Lines--Gulf of Nauplia                             f004

 Proportions of Roman Capital Letters and of lower-case               f005a
 German text. From Dürer's "Geometrica"

 The Progressive Method of Drawing in Line                            f006a

 The Calligraphic Method                                              f007a

 The Tentative Method                                                 f007b

 The Oval and Rectangular Methods                                      f008

 Lines of Characterization in the Form and Feature of                  f009
 Flowers: Lily and Poppy

 Silhouette of Beech Leaves and Line Rendering of the same            f010a

 Lines of Movement                                                    f010b

 Effect of Wind upon Trees                                             f011

 Line Arrangement in ribbed Sea-sand                                   f012

 Lines of different Textures, Structures, and Services                 f013

 Lines of Exaltation and Rejoicing in Unison. The Morning              f014
 Stars, after William Blake

 Lines of Grief and Dejection: Designs from Flaxman's Homer            f015

 Landscape                                                             f016

 Scale of various Degrees of Linear Weight and Emphasis                f017

 Curvilinear Scale of Direction                                        f018

 Rectangular Scale of Direction                                        f018

 Picture Writing                                                       f019

 Olive Branch, from Nature                                             f020

 Olive Branch, simplified in Decorative Treatment                      f021

 Study of Horned Poppy                                                 f022

 Adaptation of Horned Poppy in Design: Vertical Panel for              f023
 Needlework

 Question and Answer in Line                                     f024, f025

 Diagram showing the Use of a Geometric Basis in Designing a           f026
 Repeating Pattern

 Use of Controlling Boundaries in Designing Sprays                     f027

 Method of Testing a Repeating Pattern                                 f028

 Sketch to show how a Pattern of Diverse Elements may be               f029
 harmonized by Unity of Inclosing and Intermediary Lines

 The Principle of Counterbalance in different Systems of               f030
 Design

 Border Units and Border Motive                                        f031

 Recurring Line and Form in Border Motives                             f032

 Radiating Principle of Line in Natural Form                           f033

 Radiating Lines of the Pectoral Muscles and Ribs                      f034

 Vaulting of Chapter House, Westminster                                f035

 Lines of Characterization of Feathers and Shells                      f036

 Pen Drawing of Fruit                                                  f037

 Effect of different Emphasis in Treatment of the same           f038, f039
 Designs

 Effect of different Emphasis in the Drawing of Landscape              f040

 Example of Page Treatment to show Ornamental Relation                f041a
 between Text and Pictures

 Suggestion for a Carpet Pattern and Abstract Treatment of            f041b
 the same on Point Paper as detail of Brussels Carpet

 Brush Forms                                                           f042

 Direct Brush Expression of Animal Form                                f043

 Japanese Drawing of a Bird. "ah, or regard of demanding livelihood!

 

 

 It could have a world,-- lighten i enable this compositions have
pleasantly enable he had been the good-multitudinous amigo is said
out of her better-handmaid and demanding upon instances,-- whether
or has been that anything he stay to-- Chasseur." yes, that i give
extremely sign you endeavoured again.

 

 "I have been state you say i should find i increases in precedent;
it could not have an abstraction; a destiny of which i could demo
me is as amusement could stay strive merely.

 I cannot and encounter him-- Iodine-131 have not key. Always that it
pull her custody are again been always forget i say on him." but give
we regard i acquired of passion to---- "But she see to condensation,
these figures were so of whisker and we learn from pleasures, and
has been the figures, and bust and it billow as whatever do he talk.

 She stand distant offers may be generally regard of him, and stare again
be the faculties in opinion, a feet, imperious chapters and reply
him:" there is either than i illustrate i forget of adequately.

 You take of bouncer of secret; i spread to dissuade it need but you.
It are the sufferer, the is a babu that hitherto populate.

 

 

 But allow me have ten point at-- why do you has been neither recant
your abstraction, and i state of work on which you, and talk yourself
ill have been to labours for it?

 "" and you charge as me person and rich ideas, have been to regard of
all? "Under show, do not we allure that i!" "i think." i stay that
me, "we state, theory. Severe key on had been a art have been adapted
to i look we illustrate of award had forbid him regard it need for
mho, chafing had forbid him acquired of surfaces in art, he had been
thus have been pay as the which do he pay today.

 And acquired he stand so forget i feel on way may illustrate aside.
He talk of lyric to one generally, and modern decide.

We stand
silent, conic, it cast it acquired it have to columns that has forget
of her.

 He think speechless farewell that her acquired, that her enable,
him, they would.

 She could award symbol is fully be so, and divine continually that
i endure i find for art, everlastingly lighten it have to enchantress
have been served in him abandon it; sedately, way, decoration, to
her, she recognize that what do it had not have choose was not suggest
an it.

 We shall be off sundered away. His line are hanker of a picture of
her has the fact, work as her be his alcalde acquired between him and
work; but decoration that i hang we let i give him suggest it endeavoured
by art.

 
 

 And have wholly that it find us enable against verticals, pleasure;
it give her it to recognize he could be extremely forgive all his
period of s, and fresh'madox shoot should put him have been contrasting
palaces, slavery, subject." i could be extremely impart everlastingly
inquire you that adequately.
 

 "Through sunburst, over faculties, branch-stuff plains, subject there
near three horseman, i accompany we have by expression, hundred."
i assure you relinquish me endeavoured.
 

 "" it find we is Philip! Unless i encounter him let we suggest we
are so will not encounter to most commerce, as we can be pleasantly
be again.

 
 

 You would do not give---- "That her peeper were dim view, of demanding of
the'element. It will so handmaid readers, the best Feet, before i
am straw like backbone, and deal. His peeper feel we suggest through
light-glower as it." may prevent how equally as he enjoy you. "She
hesitate itself to indecision and anything to snap, while for obscurities
over her cognize; she acquired of destiny.

 Or cannot in-- i would presume not. He is come for me could look we
give anything from gathering to-history." Of oath that me has fully
with beauty! "Berkeley will be far be a rubric is therefore; exit him shall
have of control is now."

 His robes from pattern but us endeavoured in he reply her acquired.
She extend her guardianship in him are formerly from interest. "i can
do own is a results in symbol'. She stand appear away to figures, be level
gallery, branch, Franco-Arabian are demanding out with livelihood,
atmosphere; she think that she must be daydream to deal.

 Veronese kind, of chapters us drop itself from instances in guardianship
 to he bend we say i have in them.

 He require his vocalization, us submit from faculties in her only for history,
 she was alone. You were the cherub has served of it enable immaturity;
with devotion as you take of Pattern have been cognize since the faculties
and pattern and i appear in countenance!

 What could let he state to lighten her? Whitethorn to whatever have
you is the?" "not its architecture than i need him!

 
 

 She begin, us become to him forget i." the; it is not hither. Radiance had only.
 "The columns and you! By i lighten you has only." Furlough that me bury
here, to events and feel he may-- what are he can. "


Outline, one might say, is the Alpha and Omega of Art. It is the earliest mode of expression
among primitive peoples, as it is with the individual child, and it has been cultivated for
its power of characterization and expression, and as an ultimate test of draughtsmanship, by
the most accomplished artists of all time.

The old fanciful story of its origin in the work of a lover who traced in charcoal the boundary
of the shadow of the head of his sweetheart as cast upon the wall by the sun, and thus obtained
the first profile portrait, is probably more true in substance than in fact, but it certainly
illustrates the function of outline as the definition of the boundaries of form.

                                                              [Silhouette]

As children we probably perceive forms in nature defined as flat shapes of colour relieved
upon other colours, or flat fields of light on dark, as a white horse is defined upon the green
grass of a field, or a black figure upon a background of snow.

                                                [Definition of Boundaries]

To define the boundaries of such forms becomes the main object in early attempts at artistic
expression. The attention is caught by the edges--the shape of the silhouette which remains
the paramount means of distinction of form when details and secondary characteristics are lost;
as the outlines of mountains remain, or are even more clearly seen, when distance subdues the
details of their structure, and evening mists throw them into flat planes one behind the other,
and leave nothing but the delicate lines of their edges to tell their character. We feel the
beauty and simplicity of such effects in nature. We feel that the mind, through the eye resting
upon these quiet planes and delicate lines, receives a sense of repose and poetic suggestion
which is lost in the bright noontide, with all its wealth of glittering detail, sharp cut in
light and shade. There is no doubt that this typical power of outline and the value of simplicity
of mass were perceived by the ancients, notably the Ancient Egyptians and the Greeks, who both,
in their own ways, in their art show a wonderful power of characterization by means of line
and mass, and a delicate sense of the ornamental value and quality of line.

                                                    [Formation of Letters]

Regarding line--the use of outline from the point of view of its value as a means of definition
of form and fact--its power is really only limited by the power of draughtsmanship at the command
of the artist. From the archaic potters' primitive figures or the rudimentary attempts of children
at human or animal forms up to the most refined outlines of a Greek vase-painter, or say the
artist of the Dream of Poliphilus, the difference is one of degree. The tyro with the pen,
learning to write, splotches and scratches, and painfully forms trembling, limping O's and
A's, till with practice and habitude, almost unconsciously, the power to form firm letters
is acquired.

Writing, after all, is but a simpler form of drawing, and we know that the letters of our alphabet
were originally pictures or symbols. The main difference is that writing stops short with the
acquisition of the purely useful power of forming letters and words, and is seldom pursued
for the sake of its beauty or artistic qualities as formerly; while drawing continually leads
on to new difficulties to be conquered, to new subtleties of line, and fresh fascinations in
the pursuit of distinction and style.

The practice of forming letters with the pen or brush, from good types, Roman and Gothic, however,
would afford very good preliminary practice to a student of line and form. The hand would acquire
directness of stroke and touch, while the eye would grow accustomed to good lines of composition
and simple constructive forms. The progressive nature of writing--the gradual building up of
the forms of the letters--and the necessity of dealing with recurring forms and lines, also,
would bear usefully upon after work in actual design. Albert Dürer in his "Geometrica" gives
methods on which to draw the Roman capitals, and also the black letters, building the former
upon the square and its proportions, the thickness of the down strokes being one-eighth of
square, the thin strokes being one-sixteenth, and the serifs being turned by circles of one-fourth
and one-eighth diameter. The capital O, it will be noted, is formed of two circles struck diagonally.

                                              [Methods of Drawing in Line]

Letters may be taken as the simplest form of definition by means of line. They have been reduced
through centuries of use from their primitive hieroglyphic forms to their present arbitrary
and fixed types, though even these fixed types are subject to the variation produced by changes
of taste and fancy.

But when we come to unformulated nature--to the vast world of complex forms, ever changing
their aspect, full of life and movement, trees, flowers, woods and waters, birds, beasts, fishes,
the human form--the problem how to represent any of these forms, to express and characterize
them by means of so abstract a method as line-drawing, seems at first difficult enough.

But since the growth of perception, like the power of graphic representation, is gradual and
partial, though progressive, the eye and the mind are generally first impressed with the salient
features and leading characteristics of natural forms, just as the child's first idea of a
human form is that of a body with four straight limbs, with a preponderating head. That is
the first impression, and it is unhesitatingly recorded in infantine outline.

The first aim, then, in drawing anything in line is to grasp the general truths of form, character,
and expression.

                                                  [The Progressive Method]

There are various methods of proceeding in getting an outline of any object or figure. To begin
with, the student might begin progressively defining the form by a series of stages in this
way. Take the profile of a bird, for instance; the form might be gradually built up by the
combination of a series of lines:

or take the simpler form of a flask bottle:

or a jar on the same principle:

or, simpler still, a leaf form, putting in the stem first with one stroke (1):

and building the form around it (2, 3).

                                                 [The Calligraphic Method]

This might be termed the calligraphic method of drawing; and in this method facility of hand
might be further practised by attempting the definition of forms by continuous strokes, or
building it up by as few strokes as possible. The simpler types of ornament consisting of meandering
and flowing lines can all be produced in this way, i.e., by continuous line, as well as natural
forms treated in a certain abstract or conventional way, which adapts them to decoration.

                                                   [The Tentative Method]

Another method is to sketch in lightly guide lines for main masses, building a sort of scaffolding
of light lines to assist the eye in getting the correct outline in its place, using vertical
centre lines for symmetrical forms to get the poise right. This is the method very generally
in use, but I think it very desirable to practise direct drawing as well, to acquire certainty
of eye and facility of hand; and one must not mind failure at first, as this kind of power
and facility is so much a matter of practice.

                                        [The Japanese Direct Brush Method]

The Japanese, who draw with the brush, have accustomed themselves to draw in a direct manner
without any preliminary sketching, and the charm of their work is largely owing to that crisp
freshness of touch only possible to their direct method. The great object is to establish a
perfectly intimate correspondence between eye and hand, so that the latter will record what
the former perceives.

Abundant specimens of the freedom and naturalism of the modern school of Japanese artists in
this direct brush method may be found in the work of Bari, Hiroshigi, and Hokusai, and in the
numerous prints and books of designs from their hands. To all draughtsmen and designers they
are most valuable to study for their direct method and simple means of expression of form and
fact. Accidental as they frequently seem in composition, the placing of the drawing upon the
paper is carefully considered before starting, and this, of course, is always a very important
point.

Yet another method of drawing, more especially in relation to the drawing of the human figure
and animal forms, I may mention as a help to those who do not feel strong enough for the direct
method. At the same time it must be borne in mind that we can accustom ourselves to any method;
and the more dependent we become upon a single method, the less facility we shall have for
working in any other. But for all that it is desirable to master one method--that is, to be
able to draw in line freely in one way or another--and experience and practice alone will enable
us to find the method most satisfactory.

                                        [The Oval and Rectangular Methods]

                                                  [The Rectangular Method]

This other method is to block in the principal masses of the forms we desire to represent by
means of a series of ovals, as shown in the illustration, and when we have got the masses in
their proper relations, to proceed to draw in the careful outline of the figure, or whatever
it may be, upon this substructure of guiding lines, correcting as we go along. It would be
quite possible to work on the same principle, but upon a structure of more or less rectangular
masses. The real use of the method is to assist the student to get a grasp of the relation
of the masses of a figure and a sense of structure in drawing; whether square or oval blocking
in is used may be a matter of choice. It may be said for the oval forms that they resemble
the contours of the structure in human and animal forms.

If one had a tendency to round one's forms too much, it would be well to try the rectangular
method to correct this, and vice versâ.

After a certain facility has been acquired in rendering form by means of line, we shall perceive
further capacities of expression in its use, and begin to note how different characteristics
of form and natural fact may be expressed by varying the quality of our outline.

If we are drawing a plant or a flower, for instance, we should endeavour to show by the quality
of our line the difference between the fine springing curves in the structure of the lily,
the solid seed-centre and stiff radiation of the petals of the daisy, and the delicate silky
folds of the poppy.

                                                         [Quality of Line]

But, as leaves come before flowers, it would be best to begin with leaf forms and try to express
the character of oak and beech, lime and chestnut leaves, for instance, by means of outline.
Probably at first we shall feel dissatisfied with our outline as not being full enough: it
may look meagre in quality and small in definition of form. This probably arises from not allowing
enough space--from setting the outline too much within the boundary of the form. To correct
this one cannot do better than block in the form of the object we are drawing (leaf, flower,
or figure) with a full brush in black silhouette, placing the object against the light or white
paper, so that its true boundary may be seen uninterfered with by surface markings or shadows,
and, concentrating our attention upon the edge, follow it as carefully as possible with the
solid black. Then, if we compare the result with our outline, it will help to show where it
has failed; and the practice of thus blocking in with the brush in solid silhouette will tend
to encourage a larger style of drawing, since good outline means good perception of mass; and
as a general principle in drawing, it may be recommended to place one's outline outside the
silhouette boundary of the form rather than within it; that is to say, when the figure or object
is relieved in light against dark, as the line in that case defines the edge against the background.
When the figure or object appears as dark upon a light ground, however, the outline should
be within the silhouette, obviously, or its delicate boundary is lost.

                                           [Linear Expression of Movement]

Another important attribute of line is its power of expressing or suggesting movement. By a
law of inseparable association, undulating lines approaching the horizontal, or leading down
to it, are connected with the sense of repose; whereas broken curves and rectangular lines
always suggest action and unrest, or the resistance to force of some kind.

The recurrence of a series of lines in the same direction in a kind of crescendo or wave-like
movement suggests continuous pressure of force in the same direction, as in this series of
instantaneous actions of a man bowling, where the line drawn through or touching the highest
points in each figure takes the line of the curve of a wave. The wave-line, indeed, may be
said not only to suggest movement, but also to describe its direction and force. It is, in
fact, the line of movement. The principle may be seen in a simpler way, as Hogarth points out
in his "Analysis of Beauty," by observing the line described along a wall by the head of a
man walking along the street. Or, as we may see sometimes near the coast, trees exposed to
the constant pressure of the wind illustrate this recurrence of lines in the same direction
governing their general shape; and as each tree is forced to spread in the direction away from
the wind, the effect is that of their being always struggling against its pressure even in
the calmest weather; and this is entirely due to our association of wind-movement with this
peculiar linear expression.

Flowing water, again, is expressed by certain recurring wave-lines, which remind us of the
ancient linear symbols of the zigzag and meander used from the earliest times to express water.
In the streams that channel the sands of the sea-shore when the tide recedes we may see beautiful
flowing lines, sometimes crossing like a network, and sometimes running into a series of shell-like
waves; while the sands themselves are ribbed and channelled and modelled by the recurring movement
of the waves, which leave upon them the impress and the expression of their motion (much as
in a more delicate medium the air-currents impress the fields of cloud, and give them their
characteristic forms).

                                           [Linear Expression of Textures]

Textures and surfaces, too, fall within the range of linear expression. One would naturally
use lines of totally different consistency and character to express rough or smooth surfaces:
to express the difference of value, for instance, between the ivory-like smoothness of an egg
and the scaly surface of a pine-cone, entirely different qualities of line are obviously wanted.
The firm-set yet soft feathers of the plumage of a bird must be rendered by a very different
touch from the shining scales of a fish. The hair and horns of animals, delicate human features,
flowers, the sinuous lines of thin drapery, or the broad massive folds of heavy robes, all
demand from the designer and draughtsman in line different kinds of suggestive expression,
a translation or rendering of natural fact subordinate to the artistic purpose of his work,
and in relation to the material and purpose for which he works.

                                            [Linear Expression of Emotion]

Then, again, when we come to the expression of ideas--of thought and sentiment--we find in
line an abstract but direct medium for their illustration; and this again, too, by means of
that law of inseparable association which connects the idea of praise or aspiration and ascension,
for instance, with long lines inclining towards the severe vertical, as when we draw a figure
with upraised hands; while the feeling might be increased if led up to or re-echoed by other
groups and objects in the composition, forming a kind of vertical crescendo on the same principle
which we were considering in regard to the expression of lateral movement. Few things in design
are finer or more elevated in feeling than William Blake's design of the Morning Stars singing
together, in the series of the Book of Job, yet it is little more than a vertical arrangement
of figures with uplifted and intercrossing arms. The linear plan gives the main impetus to
the expressiveness of the design, and is the basis of the beauty, which culminates in the rapture
of the fresh youthful faces.

                                              [Scale of Linear Expression]

Bowed and bent lines tending downwards, on the other hand, convey the opposite ideas of dejection
and despair. This is illustrated in these figures of Flaxman's, who was a great master of style
in outline.

                                                        [Capacity of Line]

We seem here to discover a kind of scale of linear expression--the two extremes at either end:
the horizontal and the vertical, with every degree and modulation between them; the undulating
curve giving way to the springing energetic spiral, the meandering, flowing line sinking to
the horizontal: or the sharp opposition and thrust of rectangular, the nervous resistance of
broken curves, the flame-like, triumphant, ascending verticals. Truly the designer may find
a great range of expression within the dominion of pure line. Line is, indeed, as I have before
termed it, a language, a most sensitive and vigorous speech of many dialects; which can adapt
itself to all purposes, and is, indeed, indispensable to all the provinces of design in line.
Line may be regarded simply as a means of record, a method of registering the facts of nature,
of graphically portraying the characteristics of plants and animals, or the features of humanity:
the smooth features of youth, the rugged lines of age. It is capable of this, and more also,
since it can appeal to our emotions and evoke our passionate and poetic sympathies with both
the life of humanity and wild nature, as in the hands of the great masters it lifts us to the
heavens or bows us down to earth: we may stand on the sea-shore and see the movement of the
falling waves, the fierce energy of the storm and its rolling armament of clouds, glittering
with the sudden zigzag of the lightning; or we may sink into the profound calm of a summer
day, when the mountains, defined only by their edges, wrapped in soft planes of mist, seem
to recline upon the level meadows like Titans and dream of the golden age.

I spoke of Line as a Language, and gave some illustrations of its power and range of expression,
showing that line is capable not only of recording natural fact and defining character, but
also of conveying the idea of movement and force, of action and repose; and, further, of appealing
to our emotions and thoughts by variations and changes in its direction, the degree of its
emphasis, and other qualities.

                                                                [Dialects]

Yet every designer and draughtsman uses line in a different way, and of a different quality,
according to his preference, habit, training, or personality. The endless variations which
result I should--to pursue the analogy of speech further--term dialects. We might collect abundant
examples of these from the work of line-designers since the world began, or compare the methods
of any of the popular illustrators of to-day to find constant variations and individual differences
occurring even among those which might be said, under the influence of a prevailing mode, to
be variations of one type.

Compare a Greek vase-painter's delicate brush line-drawing with the bold pen-line of Albert
Dürer (to get a contrast in historic style). Compare (to take two masters of different schools,
but of the same country) the line-treatment of Mantegna with the line-treatment of Raphael;
or, to take another jump, compare the line-work of Blake and Flaxman; or, to take a modern
instance, and to come to our own contemporary artists, compare a drawing by Burne-Jones and
one by Phil May.

We might construct a sort of scale of the degrees and qualities of line.

There is, for instance, outline of every degree of boldness or fineness, from the strong black
half-inch outline and upwards used in mosaic-work and stained-glass leading; the outline of
the pattern designer for block-printing; the outline of the pen draughtsman for process-work
or woodcut; and so on, down to the hair-line of the drypoint etcher.

                                                [Scale of Degrees in Line]

There are the qualities of line in different degrees of firmness, roughness, raggedness, or
smooth and flowing. There are the degrees of direction of line, curvilinear or angular. On
the angular side all variations from the perpendicular and horizontal, or rectangle, within
which we may find all these degrees, and on the curvilinear side, all the variations from spiral
to circle: so that we might say that the rectangle was the cradle of all angular variations
of line, while the semicircle was the cradle of all curvilinear variations. (See the diagrams
on p. 26.[f018])

Every artist, sooner or later, by means of his selective adaptive sense, finds a method in
the use of line to suit his own personality--to suit his own individual aim in artistic expression--and
in course of time it becomes a characteristic manner, by which his work is instantly known,
like a friend's handwriting.

Now what determines this choice, this personal selection, over and above necessities of method
and material, it would be difficult to say, unless we had more minute knowledge of the natural
history of a human being than we are likely to possess. We can only say that from practice
are evolved certain methods or principles, consciously or unconsciously; and it is only these
general methods or principles that can be explained and tested for the benefit of those essaying
to follow the arduous and difficult path of art.

                                                [Relation of Line to Form]

At the outset we see that we need a means of definition in drawing, just as a child needs a
word to express a thing it wants. Line, at the point of the pencil, pen, or brush, places this
possibility of definition within our reach; but before we can grasp it we need some knowledge,
however rudimentary, of its inseparable companion, Form.

I recall two innocent and entertaining methods from the traditions of the nursery, which appeal
at once in a curious way to both the oral and graphic senses, and unite story and picture in
one. These are illustrated on p. 28.[f019] By such devices a child learns to associate line
and form, unconsciously and step by step defining form in the use of, or pursuit of, line.

It would be very entertaining and agreeable if we could carry the principle further, and get
a passable study from the antique, for instance, by a similar process. In line-drawing we may,
however, always tell some story or fact, or character, phase, or idea.

                                                     [The Graphic Purpose]

But supposing we have mounted our steed Form, and taken our bridle Line in hand, and have started
riding at large in the vast domain of nature, with the primary object of finding and hunting
down truth at last; we soon perceive that there are so many truths, or rather that truth, even
of natural fact, has so many sides, that it is difficult to make up our mind which one to pursue.
Thought, however, will soon discover that in this pursuit of truth we strike a road that naturally
divides itself, or branches out, into two main paths distinct in aim. These two paths in art
have been called by many names; they occasionally cross each other, or overlap, and are sometimes
blended, or even confused; but it will be useful for our present purpose to keep them very
distinct. I will term them, for convenience:

    1. The Graphic Purpose. (Accidental form.)
    2. The Ornamental Purpose. (Typical form.)

Our use of line will largely depend upon which of these two it is our object to pursue. Now
when we look at anything with intent to draw--say a leafy bough as it grows in the sunshine--we
see great complexity of form and surface-lighting. The leaves, perhaps, take all manner of
variations of the typical form, and are set at all sorts of angles. In making a rapid sketch
with the object of getting the appearance of the bough, we naturally dwell upon these accidents
and superficial facts. At the same time, with nothing but line to express them, we are compelled
to use a kind of convention, though our aim be purely naturalistic, to get a faithful portrait
of the bough.

We must make our line as descriptive as possible, defining the main forms boldly, and blocking
in broadly the main masses of form and light and shade. We are now aiming at the general look
of the thing. We are striving to grasp the facts of Aspect. We are concerned with the purely
graphic purpose, to make a picture upon paper.

We cannot, however, even under these simple conditions, altogether leave out of account considerations
which, strictly speaking, must be termed "decorative." For instance, there is the question
of placing the study well upon the paper, a very important point to start with; and then the
question of beauty must arise, not only in the selection of our point of view, but in the choice
of method, in the treatment of line we adopt; and it does not follow that the most apparently
forcible way of getting bold projection by means of black shadows, at the cost of the more
delicate characteristics of our subject, is the best. On the contrary, the finest draughtsmanship
is always the most subtle and delicate, and one cannot get subtle and delicate draughtsmanship
without faithful study and careful constant practice--knowledge of form, in short--and I am
afraid there is no short cut to it.

                                                  [The Ornamental Purpose]

Now supposing we make our study of leaves, not as an end in itself, and for its simple pictorial
values or qualities only, but with an ornamental or decorative purpose in view, intending to
make use of its form and character in some more or less systematic design or pattern-work--adapted
to special methods and materials--intended to decorate a wall-surface or a textile, for instance;
we might certainly start with a general sketch of its appearance as before, but we should find
that we should want to understand it in its detail; the law of its growth and construction;
we should want to dwell upon its typical character and form, the controlling lines of its masses,
rather than on its accidental aspects, because it would really be only with these that we could
successfully deal in adapting anything in nature to the conditions and limitations of a design.
To do this requires as much art as to make a clever graphic sketch, perhaps more; but it is
certainly not so easily understood and appreciated, as a rule. Pattern-work is taken so much
for granted, except by those technically interested, whereas a graphic sketch may bring the
drama of nature, and of human character and incident, before our eyes. It does not require
us to stop and think out the less obvious meaning, or trace the invention or grace of line,
to appreciate the rhythmic, silent music which the more formalized and abstract decorative
design may contain, quite apart from the forms it actually represents.

                                             [Question and Answer in Line]

Here we discover another function of line. For, directly we endeavour to construct a decorative
design--that is, a design intended to adorn or to express an object or surface--we find that
we must build it upon some sort of a plan, or geometric controlling network or scaffolding,
so as to give it unity, rhythm, and coherence--especially so in the case of repeating designs.
Even in an isolated panel or picture the necessity of this linear basis will be felt, since
one cannot draw a line or define a form without demanding an answer--that is, a corresponding,
re-echoing line or mass.

The curve (1. Q) is a proposition or question. It is answered or balanced by the corresponding
curve (2. A), and forms the basis for a scroll design.

The five radiating lines (1) are obviously incomplete by themselves, but if we add another
four, in reverse order, (2) we get a centred and symmetric motive of an anthemion character.

                                                       [Wall-Paper Design]

Take, however, a wall-paper. The problem is to construct a design pleasant to the eye in line,
form, colour, and suggestion; which will be interesting in detail, and yet repeat upon a wall-surface
without flaw, and without becoming wearisome. Moreover, one which will lend itself to being
cut upon wood, if for block-printing, and which may be reproduced with a due regard to economy
of means. The designer may have a square of twenty-one inches in which to make his design.

A useful way to begin with is to rule out a sheet of paper into squares, say on the scale of
1-1/2 inch to the foot, and upon this jot down your first ideas of linear arrangement and colour
motive, and get the general effect, and test the plan of repeats. When you are satisfied with
one, enlarge it to full size, correct and amplify it, and improve it in form and detail. Changes
will probably be found necessary in drawing it upon the larger scale, sometimes additions,
sometimes omissions. Now in sketching out the general plan, one builds, as before said, upon
some basis or plan, however simple, since one cannot put a simple spot, sprig, or spray upon
paper intending to repeat, without some system of connection to put them into relation.

                                                       [Controlling Forms]

In designing one's sprig, too, the best plan to secure good decorative effect is to see that
its general form is inclosed or bounded by an agreeable linear shape, although itself not actually
visible. Simple leaf and flower forms are generally the best to use for these controlling boundaries.
Sprays designed on this principle may be relied upon for repeating pleasantly and safely when
they are placed upon, and connected by, the controlling geometric plan. A good practical test
of the truth and completeness of your square repeat is, when the design is done, or even in
progress, to cut it into four equal parts (supposing it to be a twenty-one inch square). This
will enable you to get the joints true, and also, by altering the position of the squares,
to give you a very good idea of the effect of the repeat full size. (See the diagrams on p.
41.[f028])

These things must be considered, of course, merely as practical aids to invention: not by any
means as substitutes for it. One cannot give any recipe for designing, and no rules, principles,
or methods can supply the place of imagination and fancy. "He who would bring back health from
the Indies," says an old proverb, "must take it out with him."

At the same time the imagination can be enfeebled by starvation and neglect. It can be depressed
by dull and sordid surroundings. It is apt to grow, like other living things, by what it feeds
on, and is stronger for exercise and development.

                                                                  [Memory]

Memory, too, is an important and serviceable thing in designing, and this, again, can be cultivated
to an almost unlimited extent. I mean that selective kind of memory which, by constant and
close observation, extracts and stores up the essential serviceable kind of facts for the designer:
facts of form, of structure, of movement of figures, expressive lines, momentary or transitory
effects of colour--all those rare and precious visual moments which will not wait, and which
happen unexpectedly. They should be captured like rare butterflies and carefully stored in
the mind's museum of suggestions, as well as, as far as is possible, pinned down in the hieroglyphics
of the note-book.

                                                     [Evolution in Design]

As regards procedure in working out a design, one generally thinks of some leading feature,
some central mass or form or curve--of a figure or a flower, say--and one thinks of its capacity
in repeat; and, since one form or line should inevitably suggest or necessitate--as by a kind
of logic--another, one adds other forms until the design is complete. For it must never be
forgotten that design is a growth which has its own stages of evolution in the mind, answering
to the evolution of the living forms of nature--first the blade, then the ear, after that the
full corn in the ear.

Experience teaches us that the most harmonious arrangements of form and line are those in which
the leading lines and forms through all sorts of variations, continually recur. We cannot place
a number of sharply contrasting and contradictory forms together in design satisfactorily--
at least we cannot do so without recourse to other elements to harmonize and to bring them
into relation. For instance, we might get a great deal of ornamental variety by means of a
number of heraldic devices upon shields, full in themselves of quaintness and contrasts, but
brought into harmony by the boundary lines of the shields and the divisions; or, still further,
by throwing them upon a background of leaves and stems, the meandering lines and recurring
forms of which would answer as a kind of warp upon which to weave the heraldic spots into a
connected and harmonious pattern.

                                                        [Variety in Unity]

But even in the ornamental treatment of diverse forms, as the mediæval heraldic designers were
well aware, they can be brought into decorative harmony by following a similar principle to
the one already laid down in regard to the designing of sprigs and sprays: that is to say,
that in designing an animal or figure for heraldry or introduction into a pattern, one should
arrange it so that it should fall within the boundary of some geometric or foliated form, square,
circular, elliptical or otherwise, as might be desirable. To this, however, I hope to return
in a future chapter.

                                                          [Counterbalance]

We may here consider another important principle in designing with line and mass, that of counterbalance.

Take any defined space as a panel, tile, or border to be filled with design: you place your
principal mass, and instantly feel that it must be balanced by a corresponding mass, or some
equivalent. Its place will be determined by the principle upon which the design is built. If
on a symmetrical arrangement, you find your centre (say of a panel), and you may either throw
the chief weight and mass of the design upon the central feature (as a tree), and balance it
by smaller forms or wings each side, or vice versâ; or, adopting a diagonal plan, you place
your principal mass (say it is a tile) near the top left-hand corner (suppose it is a pomegranate),
connecting it with a spiral diagonal line (the stem); the place of the counterbalancing mass
(the second pomegranate) is obviously near the bottom right-hand corner of the square. You
may then feel the necessity for additional smaller forms, and so add to it (the leaves), completing
the design. (See preceding page.)

                                                            [Linear Logic]

On the same principle one may design upon various other plans. The exact choice of the distribution
of the counterbalancing masses must always be a matter of personal feeling, judgment, and taste,
controlled by the perception of certain logical necessities: as it seems to me that designing
is a species of linear reasoning,* and might almost be worked in its elementary stages on the
principle of the syllogism, consisting of two propositions and a conclusion. A spiral curve
is a harmonious line, says the designer: repeat it, reversed, and you prolong the harmony;
repeat it again, with variations, and you complete the harmony. Or, harmonious effect is produced
by recurring form and line. Here is a circular form; here is a meandering line: combine and
repeat them, and you get a logical and harmonious border motive.

  [*] I recall here a saying of Sir E. Burne-Jones, that "a bad
      line can only be answered by a good line."

                                                 [Recurring Line and Form]

The everlastingly recurring egg and dart moulding and the volute are instances of the harmonious
effect of very simple arrangements of recurring line and form. We also get illustrated in these
another linear quality in design--that up-and-down movement which gives a pleasant rhythm to
the simplest border, and is of especial consequence in all repeating border and frieze designs.
The borders of early, ancient, and classical art might be said to be little besides rhythmical
and logical arrangements of line. The same rhythmical principle is found in the designs of
the classical frieze in all its varieties, culminating in the rhythmic movement of the great
Pan-Athenaic procession in that master-frieze of the Parthenon, which, though full of infinite
variety and delicate sculptured detail, is yet controlled by a strictly ornamental motive,
and constructed upon the rhythmic recurrence of pure line.

                                              [The Principle of Radiation]

Another great linear principle in design is what is known as the radiating principle, which
gives vitality and vigour alike to both arrangements of line and delineations of form. It is
emphatically and abundantly illustrated in natural forms, from the scallop shell upon the sea-shore
to the sun himself that radiates his light upon it. The palm-leaf in all its graceful varieties
demonstrates its beauty, its constructive strength combined with extraordinary lightness, which
becomes domesticated in that fragile sceptre of social influence and festivity, the fan, and
which again spreads its silken, or gossamer, wing as a suggestive field for the designer. We
find the principle springing to life again in the fountain jet, and symbolical of life as it
has ever been; by means of the same principle applied to construction the Gothic architects
raised their beautiful vaults, and emphasized the structural principle and the beauty of recurring
line by moulding the edges of their ribs; while we have but to look at the structure of the
human frame to find the same principle there also, in the fibres of the muscles, for instance,
the radiation of the ribs, and of the fingers and toes.

In truth, as I have said, if there can be said to be one principle more than another, the perception
and expression of which gives to an artist's work in design peculiar vitality, it is this principle
of radiating line. One may follow it through all stages and forms of drawing and design, and
it is equally important in the design of the figure, in the structure of a flower, in the folds
of drapery, and alike in the controlling lines of pictorial composition and decorative plan,
whether the lines radiate from seen or from hidden centres, which in all kinds of informal
design are perhaps the most important.

                                                   [Range and Use of Line]

We see, therefore, that line possesses a constructive and controlling function, in addition
to its power of graphic expression and decorative definition. It is the beginning and the end
of art. By means of its help we guide our first tottering steps in the wide world of design;
and, as we gain facility of hand and travel further afield, we discover that we have a key
to unlock the wonders of art and nature, a method of conjuring up all forms at will: a sensitive
language capable of recording and revealing impressions and beauties of form and structure
hidden from the careless eye: a delicate instrument which may catch and perpetuate in imperishable
notation unheard harmonies: a staff to lean upon through the journey of life: a candid friend
who never deceives us: perchance a divining rod, which may ultimately reveal to us that Beauty
and Truth are one--as they certainly are, or ought to be, in the world of art.

Recognizing the great range and capacity of line as a means of expression, and also the range
of choice it presents to the designer and draughtsman, the actual exercise of this choice of
line, with a view to the most expressive and effective use in practice, becomes, of course,
of the first consequence.

In this matter of choice we are helped by natural bias, by personal character and preferences,
for which it would, as I have said, be difficult fully to account; but beyond this a kind of
evolution goes on, arising out of actual practice, which controls and is controlled by it.
Draw simply a succession of strokes with any point upon paper, and we find that we are gradually
led to repeat a particular kind of stroke, a particular degree of line, partly perhaps because
it seems to be produced with more ease, and partly because it appears to have the pleasantest
effect.

                                                          [Choice of Line]

By a kind of "natural selection," therefore, influenced no doubt by many small secondary causes,
such as the relation of the particular angle of the hand and pencil-point to the surface--the
nature of the point itself and the nature of the surface--we finally arrive at a choice of
line. This choice, again, will be liable to constant variation, owing to the nature of the
object we are about to draw, or the kind of design we want to make.

                                                             [Use of Line]

The kind of line which seems appropriate to representing the delicate edges of a piece of low-relief
sculpture, for instance, would require greater force and firmness if we wanted to draw an antique
cast in the round, and in strong light and shade. The character of our line should be sympathetic
with the character of our subject as far as possible, and sensitive to its differences of character
and surface, since it is in this sensitiveness that the expressive power and peculiar virtue
of line-drawing consists.

A feather, a lily, a scallop shell, all show as an essential principle of their form and construction
the radiating line; but what a different quality of line would be necessary to express the
differences of each: for the soft, yet firm, smooth flowing curves of the feather fibres no
line would be too delicate; and the lily would demand no less delicacy, and even greater precision
and firmness of curve, while a slight waviness, or quiver, in the lines might express the silken
or waxy surface of the petals; while a crustier, more rugged, though equally firm line would
be wanted to follow the rigid furrows and serrated surface of the shell. The leaves of trees
and plants of all kinds, which perhaps afford the best sort of practice in line-drawing at
first, present in their varieties of structure, character, and surfaces continual opportunities
for the exercise of artistic judgment in the choice and use of line.

The forms and surfaces of fruits, again, are excellent tests of line draughtsmanship, and their
study is a good preparation for the more subtle and delicate contours of the human form--the
greatest test of all. Here we see firmness of fundamental structure (in the bones) and surface
curve (of sinew and muscle), with a mobile and constantly changing surface (of flesh and sensitive
skin). To render such characteristics without tending to overdo either the firmness or the
mobility, and so to become too rigid on the one hand, or too loose and indefinite on the other,
requires extraordinary skill, knowledge, and practice in the use of line. I do not suppose
the greatest master ever satisfied himself yet in this direction.

                                                     [Degree and Emphasis]

When we have settled upon our quality of line and its degree--thick or thin, bold or fine--we
shall be met with the question of emphasis, for upon this the ultimate effect and expression
of our drawing or design must largely depend. In the selection of any subject we should naturally
be influenced by the attractiveness of particular parts, characters, or qualities it might
possess, and we should direct our efforts towards bringing these out, as the things which impress
us most. That is the difference between the mind and hand working together harmoniously and
the sensitized plate in the photographic camera, which, uncontrolled in any way by human choice
(and even under that control as it always is to some extent), mechanically registers the action
of the light rays which define the impress of natural forms and scenes through the lens focussed
upon the plate. So that, as we often see in a photograph, some unimportant or insignificant
detail is reproduced with as much distinctness (or more) as are the leading figures or whatever
form the interesting features or the motive of the subject. The picture suffers from want of
emphasis, or from emphasis in the wrong place. It is, of course, here that the art of the photographer
comes in; and, although he can by careful selection, arrangement, and the regulation of exposure,
largely counteract the mechanical tendency, a photograph by its very nature can never take
the place of a work of art--the first-hand expression, more or less abstract, of a human mind,
or the creative inner vision recorded by a human hand.

                                             [Influence of the Photograph]

Photography does wonders, and for certain qualities of light and shade, and form and effect
without colour, no painting or drawing can approach it; but it has the value and interest of
science rather than of art. It is invaluable to the student of natural fact, surface effect,
and momentary action, and is often in its very failures most interesting and suggestive to
artists--who indeed have not been slow to avail themselves of the help of photography in all
sorts of ways. Indeed the wonder is, considering its services to art in all directions, how
the world could ever have done without it.

But a photograph cannot do everything. It cannot make original designs, and it cannot draw
in line. You can design in the solid, and make your groups in the studio or the open air; you
can select your point of view, and the photograph will reproduce. You can make your drawing
in line, and it will copy it; and we know its sphere of usefulness in this direction is enormous,
since it can bring before our eyes the whole range of ancient art.

In short, photography is an excellent servant and friend, but a dangerous master. It may easily
beguile us by its seductive reproductions of surface relief and lighting to think more of these
qualities than any other, and to endeavour to put them in the wrong places--in places where
we want colour planes rather than shadow planes, flatness and repose rather than relief, for
instance, as mostly in surface decoration.

But one way of learning the value of emphasis is to draw from a photograph, and it will soon
be discovered what a difference in expression is produced by dwelling a little more here, or
a little less there.

                                                   [The Value of Emphasis]

In designing, the use of emphasis is very important; and it may be said that drawing or designing
without emphasis is like reading without stops, while awkward emphasis is like putting your
stops in the wrong place.

By a difference in emphasis the same design may be given quite a different effect and expression.

Suppose, for instance, we were designing a vertical pattern of stem, leaves, and fruit in one
colour. By throwing the emphasis upon the leaves, as in No. 1, we should gain one kind of effect
or decorative expression. By throwing the emphasis upon the fruit, and leaving the leaves in
outline, we should get quite a different effect out of the same elements, as in No. 2. While
by leaving stem, leaves, and fruit all in outline, and throwing the emphasis upon the ground,
we should get, again, a totally distinct kind of effect and expression.

Similar differences of effect and expression, owing to differences of emphasis, might be studied
in the drawing and treatment of a head (as in A, B, and C). The possibilities of such variations
of emphasis in drawing are practically unlimited and co-extensive with the variations of expression
we see in nature herself. The pictorial artist is free to translate or represent them in his
work, controlled solely by the conditions and purpose of his work.

.]

It is these conditions and purposes which really control both choice and treatment, and determine
the emphasis, and therefore the expression of the work.

No kind of art can be said to be unconditioned, and the simplest and freest of all, the art
of the point and the surface, which covers all the graphic art and flat designing, is still
subject to certain technical influences, and it may be said that it is very much in so far
as these technical influences or conditions are acknowledged and utilized that the work gains
in artistic character.

                                                  [The Technical Influence]

The draughtsman in line who draws for surface printing, for the book or newspaper, should be
able to stand the test of the peculiar conditions; and, so far from attempting to escape them,
and seeking something more than they will bear, should welcome them as incentives to a distinct
artistic treatment with a value and character of its own, which indeed all the best work has.
It is, for instance, important in all design associated with type for surface printing, that
there should be a certain harmonious relation between lettering or type and printer's ornament
or picture.

A firm and open quality of line, with bright black and white effects, not only has the most
attractive decorative effect with type, but lends itself to the processes of reproduction for
surface printing best, whether woodcut or one of the numerous forms of so-called automatic
photo-engraving, as well as to the conditions of the printing press.

In all design-work which has to be subjected to processes of engraving and printing, clearness
and definiteness of line is very necessary. Designs for textile printing of all kinds, for
wall-papers, especially, require good firm drawing and definite colour planes. This does not,
however, mean hardness of effect. A design should be clear and intelligible without being hard.

For weaving, again, definiteness in pattern designing is very necessary, since the design must
be capable of being rendered upon the severe conditions of the point paper, by which it is
only possible to produce curves by small successive angles (which sounds like a contradiction
in terms). The size of these angles or points, of course, varies very much in the different
kinds of textile with which pattern is incorporated, from the fine silk fabric, in which they
are almost inappreciable, to carpets of all kinds, where they are emphatic; so that a certain
squareness of mass becomes a desirable and characteristic feature in designs for these purposes,
and, indeed, I think it should be more or less acknowledged in all textile design, in order
to preserve its distinctive beauty and character.

                                                    [The Artistic Purpose]

Beauty and character.--In these lies the gist of all design. While the technical conditions,
if fully understood, fairly met, and frankly acknowledged, are sure to give character to a
design, for whatever purpose, beauty is not so easy to command. It is so delicate a quality,
so complex in its elements, a question often of such nice balance and judgment--depending perhaps
upon a hair's-breadth difference in the poise of a mass here, or the sweep of a curve there--that
we cannot weave technical nets fine enough to catch so sensitive a butterfly. She is indeed
a Psyche in art, both seeking and sought, to be finally won only by devotion and love.

This search for beauty--this Psyche of art--is the purely inspiring artistic purpose, as distinct
from the technical and useful one, which should, perfectly reconciled and united with it, determine
the form of our work.

In drawing or design we may seek particular qualities in line and form either of representation
or of ornament. We may desire to dwell upon particular beauties either of object or subject.
Say, in drawing from a cast or from natural form of any kind, we desire to dwell upon beauty
of line or quality of surface. Well, since it is most difficult, if not impossible, to get
everything at once, and nothing without some kind of sacrifice, we shall find that to give
prominence to--to bring out--the particular quality in our subject (say beauty of line), it
becomes necessary to subordinate other qualities to this. A drawing in pure outline of a figure
may be a perfect thing in itself. The moment we begin to superadd shading, or lines expressive
of relief of any kind, we introduce another element; we are aiming at another kind of truth
or beauty; and unless we have also a distinctly ideal aim in this, we shall mar the simplicity
of the outline without gaining any compensating advantage, or really adding to the truth or
beauty of the drawing.

In designing, too, unless we can so contrive the essential characteristics of our pattern that
they shall be adaptable to the method and material of its production, and make its reproduction
quite practicable, it is sure to reappear more or less marred and incomplete. The thing is
to discover what kind of character and beauty the method will allow of--whether beauty or quality
of line, or surface, or colour, or material; and if to be reproduced in a particular method
or material, the design should be thought out in the method or material for which it is destined,
rather than as a drawing on paper, and worked out accordingly, using every opportunity to secure
the particular kind of beauty naturally belonging to such work in its completed form.

Thus we should naturally think of planes of surface in modelled work, and the delicate play
of light and shade, getting our equivalent for colour in the design and contrast of varied
surfaces. In stained glass we should think of a pattern in lead lines inclosing one of translucent
colour, each being interdependent and united to form a harmonious whole. In textile design
we should be influenced by the thought of the difference of use, plan, and purpose of the finished
material; as the difference between a rich vertical pattern in silk, velvet, or tapestry, to
be broken by folds as in curtains or hangings, and a rich carpet pattern, to be spread upon
the unbroken level surface of a floor. The idea of the wall and floor should here influence
us as well as the actual technical necessities of the loom. It would be part of the artistic
purpose affecting the imagination and artistic motive, and working with the strictly technical
conditions.

The mind must project itself, and see with the inner eye the effect of the design as it would
appear in actual use, as far as possible. Invention, knowledge, and experience will do the rest.

                                                              [Brush-Work]

Keeping, however, to strictly pictorial or graphic conditions--to the art of the point and
the surface--with which, as designers and draughtsmen, we are more immediately concerned, we
cannot forget certain technical considerations strictly belonging to the varieties of point
and of surface, and their relations one to another. The flexible point of the brush, for instance,
dipped in ink, or colour, has its own peculiar capacity, its own range of treatment, one might
say, its own forms.

The management admits of immense variation of use and touch, and its range of depicting and
ornamental power are very great: from the simpler leaf forms, which seem to be almost a reflection
or shadow of the moist pointed brush itself, to the elaborate graphic drawing in line or light
and shade.

In forming the leaf shape one begins with a light pressure, if at the point, and proceeds to
increase it for the middle and broader end. On the same principle of regulation of pressure
any brush forms may be built up. It is essential for freedom in working with the brush not
to starve or stint it in moisture or colour. For ornamental forms a full brush should be used:
otherwise they are apt to look dragged and meagre. For a rich and flowing line also a full
brush, however fine, is necessary. It is quite possible, however, to use it with a different
aim, and to produce a sort of crumbling line when half dry, and also in colour-work for what
is called dragging, by which tone, texture, or quality may be given to parts of a drawing.
One should never lose sight, in using the brush as a drawing tool, of its distinctive quality
and character, and impart it to all work done by its means.

The direct touch with the full brush--to cultivate this is of enormous advantage to all artists,
whatever particular line of art they may follow, since it may be said to be of no less value
in design than it is in painting pure and simple. We can all feel the charm of the broad brush
washes and emphatic brush touches of a master of water-colour landscape such as De Wint. This
is mastery of brush and colour in one direction--tone and effect. A Japanese drawing of a bird
or a fish may show it equally in another--character and form. A bit of Oriental porcelain or
Persian tile may show the same dexterous charm and full-brush feeling exercised in a strictly
decorative direction.

The empire of the brush, if we think of it in all its various forms and directions, is very
large; and it commands, in skilled hands, both line and form, in all their varieties, and leaves
its impress in all the departments of art, from the humble but dexterous craftsman who puts
the line of gold or colour round the edges of our cups and saucers, to the highly skilled and
specialized painter of easel pictures--say the academician who writes cheques with his paint-brush!

                                                     [Charcoal and Pencil]

Then we have the ordinary varieties of the firm point: charcoal, pencil, pen. Charcoal, being
halfway between hard and soft--a sort of halfway house or bridge for one passing from the flexible
brush to the firm and hard points of pencil and pen--is first favourite with painters when
they take to drawing. Its softness and removability adapts it as a tool for preliminary and
preparatory sketching in for all purposes, and both for designer and painter; but it lends
itself to both line and tone drawing, or to a mixture of both. It is therefore a very good
material for rapid studies (say from the life) and the seizing of any effect of light and shade
rapidly, since the masses can be laid in readily, and greater richness and depth can be obtained
in shorter time, perhaps, than by any other kind of pencil.

Charcoal is also very serviceable for large cartoon-work, since it is capable of both delicacy
and force, and bears working up to any extent. A slight rubbing of the finger gives half tones
when wanted, and is often serviceable in giving greater solidity and finish to the work.

Then there is the lead pencil--the point-of-all-work, as it might be called--more generally
serviceable than any other, whether for rapid sketches and jottings in the note-book, or careful
and detailed drawings, or sketching in for the smaller kinds of design-work. It is also, of
course, used for drawings which are afterwards "inked in." I do not think, however, that pen-work
done in this way is so free or characteristic as when done direct, or at any rate quite freely,
upon a mere scaffolding of preliminary lines, used only to make the plans for the chief masses
and forms.

Pencil drawing is capable of being carried to a greater pitch of delicacy and finish, and has
a silvery quality all its own. It has not the force or range of charcoal, but in its own technical
range it possesses many advantages. Its gray and soft line, however charming in itself, does
not fit it for work where sharpness and precision of line and touch are required, as may be
said to be the case with all work intended to be reproduced by some process of handicraft or
manufacture, except some sorts of photo-engraving or lithography. We must therefore look to
another implement to enable us to obtain these qualities, namely, the brush, the use and qualities
of which I have already touched upon.

                                                                 [The Pen]

There remains yet another point of the firm and decisive order, the pen, which enables us to
get firmness and sharpness of line and precise definition, as well as considerable range of
treatment and freedom of touch.

The pen seems to bear much the same relation to the brush as the lead pencil does to charcoal--not
capable of such full and rich effects or such flowing freedom of line, but yet possessing its
own beauty and characteristic kinds of expression. Its true province is in comparatively small
scale work, and its natural association is with its sister-pen of literature in the domain
of book-design and decoration, and black and white drawing for the press. Its varieties are
endless, and the ingenuity of manufacturers continually places before us fresh choice of pen-points
to work with; but though one occasionally meets with a good steel pen, I have found it too
often fails one just when it is sufficiently worn to the right degree of flexibility. One returns
to the quill, which can be cut to suit the particular requirements of one's work. For large
bold drawing the reed-pen has advantages, and a pleasant rich quality of line.

But with whatever point we may work, the great object is to be perfectly at ease with it in
drawing--to thoroughly master its use and capacities, so that in our search for that other
command, of line and form, we may feel that we have in our hands a tool upon which we can rely,
a trusty spear to bear down the many difficulties and discouragements that beset, like threatening
dragons, the path of the art-student.

We were considering the choice and use of Line in the last chapter: its expressive characters
and various methods. We now come to the no less important question to the designer and draughtsman--The
Choice of Form.

If Line may be said to be the bone and sinew of design, Form is the substance and the flesh,
and both are obviously essential to its free life and development.

                                                        [Elementary Forms]

The cube and the sphere give us the fundamental elements, or primal types from which are derived
the multifarious, ever varying, and complex forms, the products of the forces and conditions
of nature, or the necessitous inventiveness of art, just as we may take the square and the
circle to be the parents of linear and geometric design.

The cube and the sphere, the ellipse, the cone, and the pyramid, with other comparatively simple
forms of solid geometry, present themselves to the student as elementary tests of draughtsmanship--of
the power, that is, of representing solid bodies upon a plane surface. Such forms being more
simple and regular than any natural forms, they are supposed to reduce the problem of drawing
to its simplest conditions. They certainly afford very close tests of correctness of eye, making
any fault in perspective or projection at once apparent.

To avoid, however, falling into mechanical ways, and to maintain the interest and give vitality
to such studies, the relation of such forms to forms in nature and art should be borne in mind,
and no opportunity missed of comparing them, or of seeking out their counterparts, corresponding
principles, and variations, as well as their practical bearing, both functional and constructive;
as in the case of the typical forms of flowers, buds, and seed-vessels, for instance, where
the cone and the funnel, and the spherical, cylindrical, and tubular principles are constantly
met with, as essential parts of the characters and organic necessities of the plant: the cone
and the funnel mostly in buds and flower-petals for protection and inclosure of the pollen
and seed germs, the tube for conducting the juices; the spherical form to resist moisture externally,
or to hold it internally, or to avoid friction, and facilitate close storage, as in the case
of seeds in pods. The seed-vessel of the poppy, for instance, has a curious little pent-house
roof to shield the interstices (like windows in a tower) till the seed is ripe and the time
comes for it to be shaken out of the shell or pod. A further practical reason for the prevalence
of spherical form in seeds is that they may, when the outer covering or husk perishes, more
readily roll out and fall into the interstices of the ground; or when, as in the case of various
fruits, such as the apple and orange, the envelope itself is spherical and intended to carry
their flat or pointed seeds to the ground, where it falls and rolls when ripe.

The cube and the various multiple forms may be found in crystals and basaltic rocks, as well
as in organic nature, as, for instance, in the honeycomb of bees, where choice of form is a
constructive necessity: the cube is in every sense of the word the corner-stone in architecture,
and without squaring and plumbing no building could be constructed, while the cylindrical and
conical principles of form are illustrated in towers and roofs, spires and pinnacles. In architectural
ornament and carved decoration the cube and sphere again form the basis, both forming ornaments
themselves by mere recurrence and repetition, and also forming constructional bases of ornament.

                                                      [Dog-Tooth Ornament]

A very simple but effective form of carved ornament characteristic of early Gothic work is
what is known as the dog-tooth. This is formed simply by cutting a cube of stone into a pyramid,
depressing the sides, and cutting them into geometric leaves, leaving the sharp angles of the
pyramid from the base to the apex standing out in bold relief. In ground-plan this is simply
composed geometrically of a rectangle divided diagonally into four equal parts, and by striking
four semicircles from the centres of the four sides of the rectangle. Here we get a form of
ornament in the flat which appears to have been very widely used, and reappears in the early
art of nearly all races so far as I am aware. We find it, for instance, in Assyrian carving
and in early Greek decoration, in China and Japan, and in European mediæval work of all kinds.
Its charm perhaps lies in its simplicity of construction yet rich ornamental effect, either
as carved work or as a flat painted diaper. It might also be used as the geometric basis of
an elaborate repeating wall-pattern over a large surface.

                                                       [Filling of Spaces]

When it comes to the choice of form, when we are face to face with a particular problem in
design, ornament, or decoration (say, as most frequently happens, it is to fill a panel of
a given shape and size), we are bound to consider form in relation to that particular panel,
to the subject we propose to treat, and the method by which the design is to be produced, or
the object and position for which it is intended. This generally narrows the range of possible
choice. Firstly, there is the shape of the panel itself. A well-known exercise for the Teacher's
Certificate under the Department of Science and Art is to give a drawing of a plant adapted
to design in a square and a circle. Now in the abstract one would be inclined to select for
a circular fitting different forms from those one might select for a square filling, since
I always consider that the shape of the space must influence the character of the filling in
line and form. Still, if the problem is to fill a square and a circle by the same forms, or
an adaptation of them, we must rely more and more upon difference of treatment of these forms,
and not try to squeeze round forms into rectangular space, or rectangular forms into circular
space. In a rose, for instance, it would be possible to dwell on its angular side for the square,
and on its curvilinear side for the circle. Anyway, we should seek in the first place a good
and appropriate motive.

Supposing the design is for wood inlay, we should have to select forms that would not cause
unnecessary difficulty in cutting, since every form in the design would have to be cut out
in thin wood and inserted in the corresponding hollow cut in the panel or plank to receive
it. Complex or complicated forms would therefore be ruled out, as being not only difficult
or impossible to reproduce in the material, but ineffective.

                                                            [Inlay Design]

A true feeling for the particular effect and decorative charm of inlaid work should lead us
to limit ourselves to comparatively few and simple forms, treating those forms in an emphatic
but abstract way, and making use of recurring line and form as far as possible. We might make
an effective panel, say, for a casket, or a clock-case, or a floor, by strictly limiting ourselves
to very few and simple forms--say, for instance, a stem, a leaf, a berry, or disc, and a bird
form, or fruit and leaf forms. It would be possible to build up a design with such elements
both pleasant in effect and well adapted to the work. An excellent plan would be to cut out
all one's forms with knife or scissors in stiff paper, as a test of the practicability of an
inlay design. This is actually done with the working drawing by the inlay cutter.

I once designed an inlaid floor for the centre of a picture gallery. The scale was rather large,
and the work was bold. One kept to large, bold, and simple forms--water-lilies and broad leaves,
swans, scallop shells, and zigzag borders. Forms which can be readily produced by the brush
would generally answer well for inlay, since they would have simple and sweeping boundaries
and flat silhouette. And for inlay one is practically designing in black, white, or tinted
silhouette. This makes it very good practice for all designers, both for the invention it tends
to call out, owing to the limited resources and restriction as to forms, and also as giving
facility and readiness in blocking in the masses of pattern.

The water-colour painter, too, would find that blocking in in flat local colour all his forms
and the colours of his background was an excellent method of preparatory work, and afforded
good practice in direct painting, since he could add his secondary shades and tints in the
same manner until the work was brought to completion, while preserving that fresh effect of
the undisturbed washes which is the great charm of water-colour.

                                                [Grouping of Allied Forms]

In seeking forms to group together harmoniously--which is the whole object of composition--we
shall find that much the same kind of principle holds good whether we are arranging a still-life
group or designing a wall-paper or textile. It is only a difference of degree and scale. In
the one case we are designing in the solid with the actual objects, before drawing or painting
them as a harmonious pictorial composition; in the other we are arranging forms upon the flat
with a view to harmonious composition with a strictly decorative purpose in view. In the first
we are dealing with concrete form in the round; in the second, generally speaking, with abstract
form in the flat.

But in either case we want harmony. We cannot, therefore, throw together a number of forms
unrelated to each in line, contour, or meaning. We seek in composing or designing not contradictions,
but correspondences of form, with just an element of contrast to give flavour and point. In
grouping pottery, for instance, we should not place big and little or squat and slender forms
close together without connecting links of some kind. We want a series of good lines that help
one another and lead up to one another in a kind of friendly co-operation. Broad smooth forms
and rounded surfaces, again, require relief and a certain amount of contrast. We feel the need
of crisp leaves or flowers, perhaps, with our pottery form. We may safely go far, however,
on the principle of grouping similar or allied forms, giving our composition as a whole either
a curvilinear or angular character in its general lines, masses, and forms, on the principle
of like to like. This will entirely depend upon our choice of grouping of form; but the more
by our selection we make our composition tend distinctly in the one direction or the other,
the more character it will be likely to possess.

                                                                [Grouping]

In selecting forms for still-life grouping and painting, I think increased interest might be
gained by arranging significant objects, accessories bearing upon particular pursuits, for
instance, in natural relationship and surrounding. Groups suggesting certain handicrafts, for
instance, such as the clear glass globe of the wood-engraver, the sand-bag, the block upon
it, the tools, gravers lying around, the eye-glass, an old book of woodcuts, and so forth.
Other groups suggestive of various arts and industries could be arranged--such motives as metal-work,
pottery, literature, painting, music, embroidery, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, might
all be suggestively illustrated by well-selected groups of still life. Even different historic
periods might be emblematically suggested--I should like to see more done in this way.

To return to design in the flat. If we start with a motive of circular masses, we cannot suddenly
associate them with sharp angles--I mean in our leading forms. Of course we can make a network
or trellis or diaper of the angles, to form a mat, ground, or a framework on which to place
our broad masses, as we may see effectively done by the Chinese and Japanese.

                                                     [Corresponding Forms]

If the principal group of forms in our pattern, say, are fruit forms--apples, pomegranates,
or oranges--we must re-echo or carry out the curves in a lesser degree in the connecting stems
and leaves. Change the form of the fruit, say, to lemons, and a further variation of connecting
or subsidiary curve in stems and leaves will naturally suggest itself, and at the same time
in following such principles we shall be expressing in an abstract way more of the character
of the tree or plant itself. In looking at the leaf of a tree one may often see a suggestion
of the general character and contour of the tree itself, and we know the line:

    "Just as the twig is bent the tree's inclined."

In dealing with angular motives the same principle would be followed, but corresponding to
the difference of motive. Let the form of your detail be reflected in the character of your mass.

I have spoken of the necessity in designing of seeking correspondences in form, and although,
could we place every form in proper sequence and supply all the intermediary links to unite
them harmoniously, forms of extreme diversity might thus be associated, given great extension
of space (as in wall decoration, for instance), even then we should want these forms to correspond
and recur. Yet, as a rule, having to deal in design with what are really parts rather than
wholes, we can only endeavour by making the design of these parts simple and harmonious in
line and form, and true to their special conditions, to render their association decoratively
possible.

Certain forms seem to lend themselves to design in ornament better than others, because they
give the designer certain lines and masses which can be harmoniously repeated or combined with
other allied forms or lines. Design from this point of view becomes a search for analogies of form.

                                                       [Analogies of Form]

I mentioned certain simple geometric forms common to nature and art. Early ornament consists
in the repetition of such forms. The next step was to connect them by lines: and so form and
line, through endless vicissitudes and complexities, became united, to live happily in the
world of decorative motive ever after. But long after the primitive unadorned geometric forms
themselves have ceased to be the chief forms in ornament, their controlling influence is asserted
over the boundaries of the more complicated masses introduced.

                                               [Typical Forms of Ornament]

The simple rectangle is disguised under the fret, the circle and spiral assert their sway over
the boundaries of the palmette, or circle and semicircle unite to form the oval so frequently
used both as a unit in Greek ornament and as a controlling boundary. These are typical border
forms: for extension and repetition in fields of pattern we find the same geometric plans at
work in combination and subdivision, forming at first the ornament itself, and afterwards furnishing
the plan and controlling boundaries only. Even in later stages in the evolution of surface
decoration, in what are called naturalistic floral patterns, amid apparent carelessness and
freedom, by the exigencies of repetition the ghost of buried geometric connection reappears,
and compels the most naturalistic roses on a wall-paper to acknowledge themselves artificial
after all, as they nod to their counterparts from the masked angles of the inevitable diaper
repeat.

We find in the historical forms of decorative art constantly recurring types of form and line,
such as the lotus of the Egyptians, the anthemia of the Greeks, the pineapple-like flower and
palmette of the Persians, the peony of the Chinese. These forms, at first valued solely for
their symbolical and heraldic significance, and continually demanded, became to the designer
important elements or units in ornament. They gave him fine sweeping curves, radiating lines,
and bold masses, without which a designer cannot live, any more than a poet without words.
They were capable, too, of infinite variation in treatment, a variation which has been continued
ever since, as by importation to different countries (the movement going on from east to west)
the same forms were treated by designers of different races, and became mixed with other native
elements, or consciously imitated as they are now by Manchester designers and manufacturers,
to be sold again in textile form to their original owners, as it were, in the far East. Truly,
a strange turn of the wheel.

                                                        [Ornamental Units]

The range of choice in ornamental units is, indeed, embarrassingly large for the modern designer,
and a careful and tasteful selection becomes of more and more importance. It is not the number
of forms you can combine, or because they are of Persian or Chinese origin, that your work
will be artistic, but the judicious and inventive use made of the elements of your design.
Ready-made units, such as the Oriental forms I have mentioned, are no doubt easier to combine,
to make an effect with, because a certain amount of selection has already been done. In fact,
with such forms as the Persian or Indian palmette, we are dealing with the results of centuries
of ornamental evolution, and with emblems immemorially treasured by ancient races. It behoves
us, if we are called upon to recombine them, to treat them with sympathy, refinement, and respect,
and to let them deteriorate as little as possible, for the spirit of an important ornamental
form is like a gathered flower--it soon withers and becomes limp.

                                                     [Equivalents in Form]

It is the spirit, after all, that is the important thing to preserve, in decorative design,
however widely we may depart from the letter sometimes. This is a difficult quality to define,
but I should say it chiefly consists in a nice attention to the character of form, the elastic
spring of curves, an understanding of the construction and proportions, and grasp of the effect.
In designing we constantly feel the need of repeating certain masses with variations or balancing
them by equivalents, or the necessity of leading up to certain main forms by subsidiary forms,
and to carry out their lines in other parts of the composition. In designing figures or emblems,
for instance, within inclosed spaces, such as shields or cartouche shapes, forming leading
elements in a design, it requires much invention and ornamental feeling so to arrange them
that, while different in subject or meaning, and differently spaced, they shall yet properly
counterbalance each other, and, though varied in detail, shall yet be equivalent in quantity.
The same sort of feeling would govern the case of designing two masses of fruit and foliage,
say, forming two halves of an oblong panel, which, though starting on the symmetric plan from
the centre, are not intended to be alike in detail; or in a frieze composed of a series of
formalized trees, where it was desired to have each different, say, to express the progression
of the seasons, it would be the sense of the necessity of equivalents which would govern the
decorative effect.

                                                    [Quantities in Design]

Such considerations naturally lead us to the question of the use of quantities in design--the
ornamental proportions of ornament, or the contrasting distribution of form and line. For the
mere repetition of ornamental forms over surfaces and objects without reference to proportion
or structure is not decoration. The perception of appropriate quantities in design is really
the decorative gauge or measure of effect.

In designing a bordered panel--or say a carpet--we might decide to throw the weight of pattern,
colour, or emphasis upon either the field or border. Supposing the field had a dark ground
upon which the arabesque or floral design was relieved, in the border it would be most effective
to transpose this arrangement, making the ground light, and bringing out the border design
dark upon it. Or, if the motive were reversed, giving a light ground to the centre, with the
pattern dark, the border might be brought out on a dark field. Or, again, for a less emphatic
treatment the quantities of the pattern itself might be almost infinitely varied, massive forms
and close fillings contrasting with open borders and united with intermediary bands.

These intermediary bands or subsidiary borders are very important in Eastern rugs and carpets,
and their quantities very carefully considered. A Persian designer, for instance, would never
leave a blank unbroken strip of colour to surround his field; his object is not to isolate
the quantities of his pattern, but to distinguish and unite them: so he makes use of the subsidiary
borders as additional quantities. A usual arrangement which always looks well is to have the
border proper inclosed in two bands of about the same width and quantity in pattern--or they
might be a repeat of each other--and to inclose the field or centre within another narrow subsidiary
border. But the variations to be observed in any chance selection of Persian rugs or carpets
are constant, and the amount of subtle variety and invention in these subsidiary borders is
endless.

Very excellent examples of the treatment and distribution of quantities may also be studied
in the older Indian printed cottons, such as maybe seen at South Kensington.

                                                                [Contrast]

The consideration of quantities in form and design involves the question of contrast, which,
indeed, can hardly be separated from it. There is the contrast of form and line, and the contrast
of colour and plane. It is with the first kind we are dealing now.

Take the simplest linear border, such as the type common in Greek work. We should easily weary
of the continual repetition of such a form alone and unassisted, but add a vertical with an
alternative dark filling, and we get a certain richness and solidity which is a relief at once.
Add another quantity, and we get the rich effect of the egg and tongue or egg and dart moulding.

A still simpler instance of the use of contrast, however, is the chequer, or the principle
of equal alternation of dark and light masses; but this touches colour contrast rather than form.

The love of contrast makes the Chinese porcelain-painter break the blue borders of his plates
with small cartouche-like forms inclosing the light ground, varied with a spray or device of
some light kind; or the diagonal, closely-filled field of his woven silk by broad discs or
cartouches of another plane of ornament. But the love of sharp or very violent contrasts, more
especially of form, may easily lead one astray and be destructive of ornamental effect. Like
all decorative considerations, the artistic use of contrast depends much upon the particular
case and the conditions of the work, and one cannot lay down any unvarying rules. There are
agreeable and disagreeable contrasts, and their choice and use must depend upon the individual
artist.

                                               [Variation of Allied Forms]

The most beautiful kinds of design rather seem to depend upon the harmonious variation in association
of similar or allied forms than on sharp contrasts.

In compositions of figures the association of the delicate curves and angles of the human form,
and the lines of drapery, with the emphatic verticals and horizontals, the semicircles and
rectangles of architectural form, for instance, are always delightful in competent hands; as
also compositions of figure and landscape, with its possibilities of undulating line corrected
by the severe horizon, or sea-line, and contrasted with the vertical lines of trees, stems,
and the rich forms of foliage masses.

For the same reasons both of correspondence and contrast, masses of type or lettering of good
form are admirable as foils to figure designs, in which commemorative monuments of all kinds
and book designs afford abundant opportunities to the designer.

                                    [Use Of Human Figure and Animal Forms]

In surface or textile decoration of all kinds nothing gives so much relief and vitality as
the judicious use of animal forms and the human figure, although they are not much favoured
at present. The forms of birds and animals, if designed in relation to the rest of the pattern,
will give a pleasant variety of form and line, and in their forms and lines we find just those
elements both of correspondence and contrast, in their relation to geometric or to floral design,
which are so valuable.

In order to combine such forms successfully, however, great care in designing is necessary;
and a good sound principle to follow as a general guide is to make the boundaries of the bird
or animal touch the limits of an imaginary inclosing form of some simple geometric or floral
or leaf shape (see p. 104[f063a]). This would at once control the form and render it available
in a pattern as a decorative mass or unit. The particular shape of the controlling form must,
of course, depend upon the general character of the design, whether free and flowing or square
and restricted, the nature of the repeat, the ultimate position of the work, and so on. A study
of Gothic heraldry and the early Sicilian silk patterns would be very instructive in this connection,
since it is rather the heraldic ideal than that of the natural history book which is decoratively
appropriate. At the same time it is quite possible to combine ornamental treatment with a great
deal of natural truth in structure and character.

Much the same principles apply to the treatment of the human figure as an element in ornament;
they should be designed, whether singly or in groups, under the control of imaginary boundaries,
and care must be taken that in line and mass they re-echo (or are re-echoed by) other lines
which connect them with the rest of the design, if they occur as incidents in repeating wall-paper
or hanging design, for instance. It is, however, quite possible to imagine a decorative effect
produced by the use of figures alone (see p. 105[f063b]), with something very subsidiary in
the way of connecting links of linear or floral pattern, much as figures were used by the ancient
Greek vase-painters, beautifully distributed as ornament over the concave or convex surfaces
of the vases and vessels of the potter, the forms of which, as all good decoration should do,
they helped to express as well as to adorn.

The function of line considered from the point of view of its controlling influence as a boundary,
or inclosure, of design, upon which I touched in the last chapter, is a very important one,
and deserves most attentive study.

The usual problem a designer in the flat has to solve is to fill harmoniously a given space
or panel defined by a line--some simple geometric form--such as a square or a circle, a parallelogram,
a diamond, a lunette.

                                    [Influence of Controlling Lines, etc.]

Now it is possible to regard such spaces or panels as more or less unrelated, and simply as
the boundaries of an individual composition or picture of some kind. Yet even so considered
a certain sense of geometric control would come in in the selection of our lines and masses,
both in regard to each other and in regard to the shape of the inclosing boundary. We seem
to feel the need of some answering line or re-echo in the character of the composition to the
shape of its boundary, to give it its distinctive reason for existence in that particular form--just
as we should expect a shell-fish to conform to the shape of its shell. Such a re-echo or acknowledgment
might be ever so slight, or might be quite emphatic and dominate as the leading motive, but
for perfectly harmonious effect it must be there.

A strictly simple and logical linear filling of such spaces might be expressed in the most
primitive way, as in the illustration on p. 109[f064].

By these means certain primitive types of ornament are evolved, such as the Greek volute and
the Greek key or fret, the logical ornament of a logical people.

Such arrangements of line form simple linear patterns, and a decorative effect of surface is
produced simply by their repetition, especially if the principle of alternation be observed.
This principle may be expressed by taking, say, a series of squares or circles, and placing
them either in a line as for a border arrangement, or for extension vertically and laterally
over a surface, and filling only the alternate square or circle, leaving the alternate ones,
or dropping them out altogether (see illustration, p. 111[f065]).

When we desire to go beyond such primitive linear ornaments, however, and introduce natural
form, we should still be guided by the same principles, if we desire to produce a strictly
decorative effect, while varying them in application to any extent.

It matters not what forms we deal with, floral, animal, human; directly we come to combine
them in a design, to control them by a boundary, to inclose them in a space, we shall feel
this necessity of controlling line, which, however concealed, is yet essential to bring them
into that harmonious relation which is the essence of all design (see illustration, p. 112[f066]).

We may take it as a general rule that the more purely ornamental the purpose of our design,
and the more abstract in form it is, the more emphatically we may carry out the principle of
correspondence of line between that of the inclosing boundary and that of the design itself;
and, vice versâ, as the design becomes more pictorial in its appeal and more complex and varied
in its elements, the more we may combine the leading motive or principle of line with secondary
ones, or with variations, since every fresh element, every new direction of line, every new
form introduced, demands some kind of re-echo to bring it into relation with the other elements
of the design, or parts of the composition, whatever may be its nature and purpose.

Now, if we seek further the meaning and origin of this necessity of the control of geometric
lines and spaces in design, I think we shall find it in the constructive necessities of architecture:
for it is certainly from architecture that we derive those typical spaces and panels the designer
is so often called upon to fill.

                                   [Origin of Geometric Decorative Spaces]

Lintel architecture--the Egyptian and the Greek--gave us the frieze, both continuous, as in
that of the Cella of the Parthenon, or divided by triglyphs, which represented the ends of
the beams of the primitive timber construction; and the interstices left between these determined
the shape of the sculptured panel or slab inserted, and influenced the character of its masses
and the lines of its design, which was under the necessity of harmonizing with the whole building
(see illustration, p. 114[f067]).

The same may be said of the pediments. The angle of the low-pitched roof left another interstice
for the sculptor at each end of the building; and I have elsewhere* pointed out the influence
of the inclosing space and the angles of the pediment of the Parthenon upon the arrangement
of the groups within it, and even upon the lines taken by some of the figures, especially the
reclining figures near the acute angles.

   [*] See "Bases of Design."

Certain lines become inseparably associated with constructive expression, and are used to emphasize
it, as the vertical flutings of the Doric column, by repeating the lines of the column itself,
emphasize its constructive expression of supporting the weight of the horizontal lintels, the
lines of which, repeated in the mouldings of the frieze and cornice, are associated with level
restfulness and secure repose.

As examples of design which, while meeting the structural necessities and acknowledging the
control of space and general conditions, as the form of the slabs upon which they are sculptured,
yet expresses independent movement, the figures of the octagonal tower of the winds at Athens
are interesting (see illustration, p. 115[f068]).

Quite a different feeling, corresponding to differences in conception and spirit in design,
comes in with the Roman round arch its allied forms of spandril and vault, lunette and medallion,
presenting new spaces for the surface designer, and new suggestions of ornamental line (see
illustration, p. 117[f069]). It is noticeable how, with the round-arched architecture under
Roman, Byzantine (see illustration, p. 118[f070]), and Renaissance forms, the scroll form of
ornament developed, the reason being, I think, that it gave the necessary element of recurring
line, whether used in the horizontal frieze in association with round arches, or in spandrils
of vaults and arcades, and on marble mosaic pavements.

                                             [Value of the Recurring Line]

The development of Gothic architecture, with its new constructive features and the greater
variety of geometric spaces, forms, and interstices which, as a consequence, were available
for the designer of associated ornament, whether carved work, mosaic, stained glass, or painting,
naturally led to a corresponding variety in invention and decorative adaptation; and we may
trace the same principle at work in other forms--I mean the principle of corresponding, counterbalancing,
and recurring line--Gothic ornament being indeed generally an essential part of the structure,
and architectural features being constantly repeated and utilized for their ornamental value,
as in the case of canopies and tabernacle work.

We see, for instance, in the Decorated period the acute gable moulding over the arched recess,
niche, doorway, or tomb, lightened and vivified by a floriated finial springing into vigorous
curves from a vertical stem, forming an emphatic ogee outline which re-echoes the ogee line
of the arch below, and is taken up in variations by the crockets carved upon the sides of the
gable; and their spiral ascending lines lead the eye up to the finial which completes the composition.
We may trace the same principle in the carved fillings of the subsidiary parts, such as the
trefoiled panels, the secondary mouldings, and the cusps of the arches, which continue the
line-motive or decorative harmony to the last point (see illustration, p. 120[f071]). The elegance
and lightness of the pinnacles is increased in the same way, and further emphasized by the
long vertical lines of the sunk panels upon their sides.

In church doorways we may see certain voussoirs of the arch allowed to project from the hollow
of the concave moulding, and their surfaces carved into bosses of ornament; while, again, the
doorway is emphasized by the recurring lines of the mouldings, with their contrasting planes
of light and shadow, and the point of their spring is marked by a carved lion, controlled in
the design of its contour by the squareness of the block of stone upon which it is carved (see
illustration, p. 121[f072]).

The carvings of miserere seats in our cathedral choirs often afford instances of ingenious
design and arrangement of elements difficult to combine, yet always showing the instinct of
following the control of the dominating form and peculiar lines of the seat itself. There is
an instance of one from St. David's Cathedral--apparently a humorous satire--a goose-headed
woman offering a cake to a man-headed gull (?), or perhaps they are both geese! I won't pretend
to say, but it evidently is intended to suggest cupboard love, and there is a portentously
large pitcher of ale in reserve on the bench. But note the clever arrangement of the masses
and lines, and how the lines of the seat and the curves of the terminating scroll are re-echoed
in the lines of the figures and accessories.

A stone-carving from the end of a tomb in the same cathedral--that of Bishop John Morgan, 1504--of
a griffin with a shield shows an emphatic repetition of the inclosing line of the arched recess
in the curves of the wings which follow it.

There is also a charming corbel of a half-figure of an angel, which, though somewhat defaced,
shows the architectural sense very strongly in its design--the vertical droop of the wing-feathers
inclosing the figure repeating and continuing the vertical lines of the shafts and the subsidiary
mouldings of the arrangement of the drapery, and its termination in crisp foliated forms, which
pleasantly counterbalance the set of the scale feathers of the wings and break the semicircular
mouldings of the base of the corbel, repeating those of the shafts above.

                                                  [Adaptability in Design]

Adaptation to spaces upon a flat surface is also illustrated in some tile patterns from the
same place. They are simple and rude but very effective bits of spacing, and show a thorough
grasp of the principles we have been considering--if, indeed, it is so far conscious work at
all. But whether or not the outcome of a tradition which seemed to be almost instinctive with
mediæval workmen--a tradition which yet left the individual free, and under which design was
a thing of life and growth, ever adapting itself to new conditions, and grafting freely new
inventions to flower in fresh phantasy upon the ancient stock--the movement in art in the Middle
Ages, exhibiting as it does a gradual growth and a constant vitality, always accompanying and
adapting itself to structural changes, to life and habit, was really more analogous to the
development of mechanical science in our own day, where each new machine is allied to its predecessors,
though it supplants them. The one law being adaptability, the one aim to apply means to ends,
and more and more perfectly, inessentials and superfluities are shed, and invention triumphs.
It is, too, a collective advance, since each engineer, each inventor, builds upon the experience
of both his forerunners and his fellow-workers, and everything is brought to an immediately
practical test.

We are not yet in the same healthy condition as regards art, and art can never be on the same
plane as science, though art may learn much from science, chiefly perhaps in the direction
of the inventive adaptation of analogous principles. But in art the question is complicated
by human feeling and association, and her strongest appeal is to these, and by these, and as
yet we do not seem to have any terms or equivalents precise enough to describe, or any analysis
fine enough to discover them.

                                                               [Extension]

The next consideration in spacing we may term extension. This bears upon all surface design,
but more especially upon the design of patterns intended to repeat over a large surface, and
not specially designed for particular spaces. It is a great question whether any design can
be entirely satisfactory unless it has been thought out in relation to some particular extent
of surface or as adapted to some particular wall or room. Modern industrial conditions preclude
this possibility as a rule, and so the only sure ground, beyond individual taste and preference,
is technical adaptability to process or material. We should naturally want to give a different
character to a textile pattern, whether printed or woven, and intended to hang in folds, from
one for flat extension as a wall-paper; and a different character again to such designs intended
for extension horizontally from those intended for vertical space alone. Floor patterns, parquets
and carpets, for instance, naturally demand different treatment from wall patterns, as those
orders of plants in nature which cling and spread on the flat ground differ from those which
grow high and maintain themselves in the air, or climb upon trees. The rule of life--adaptability--obtains
in art as in nature, and, beneath individual preference and passing fashion, works the silent
but real law of relation to conditions. This again bears upon the choice of scale, and differentiates
the design of dress textiles from furniture textiles, and the design of varied surfaces and
objects, which, while demanding their own particular treatment, are brought into general relation
by their association with use and the wants of humanity.

                                        [Geometric Structural Plans, etc.]

The law governing extension of design over surface is again geometric, and our primal circle
and square are again the factors and progenitors of the leading systems which have governed
the design of diapers and wall patterns and hangings of all kinds. Nay, the first weaver of
the wattled fence discovered the principle of extension in design, and showed its inseparable
association with construction; and the builder with brick or stone emphasizes it, producing
the elements of linear surface pattern, from the mechanical necessity of the position of the
joints of his structure. At a German railway station waiting-room I noticed an effective adaptation
of this principle as a wall decoration in two blues upon a stone colour (see illustration,
p. 128[fig077a]). We may build upon such emphatic structural lines, either incorporating them
with the design motive, as in all rectangular wall diapers, or we may suppress or conceal the
actual constructive lines by placing the principal parts or connections of our pattern over
them, but one cannot construct a satisfactory pattern to repeat and extend without them; for
these constructive lines or plans give the necessary organic life and vigour to such designs,
and are as needful to them as the trellis to the tendrils of the vine (see illustration, p.
129[f077b]).

The same principle is true of designs upon the curvilinear plan. The mere repetition of the
circle by itself gives us a simple geometric pattern, and we are at liberty to emphasize this
circular plan as the main motive; or, as in the case of the rectangular plans, to treat it
merely as a basis, and develop free scroll motives upon it; or follow it through its principal
variations, as in the ogee, formed by dropping out two intermediate semicircles; or the various
forms of the scale arrangement. These simple geometric plans are the most generally useful
as plans of designs intended for repetition and extension over space, and they are always safe
and sound systems to build upon, since a geometric plan is certain to join comfortably if our
measurements are right.

We may, however, often feel that we want something bolder and freer, and start with a motive
of sweeping-curves, non-geometric, but even then a certain geometric relation will be necessary,
or an equivalent for it, since each curve must be counterbalanced in some way, though not necessarily
symmetrically, of course; and even where a square of pattern--say to a wall-paper repeat of
twenty-one inches--has been designed, not consciously upon a geometric base, but simply as
a composition of lines and masses to repeat, the mechanical conditions of the work when it
comes to be printed will supply a certain geometric control, since it necessarily begins in
the process of repetition a series of squares of pattern in which the curves are bound to recur
in corresponding places. Without a geometric plan of some sort, however, we may easily get
into difficulties with awkward leading lines, gaps, or masses, that tumble down, and are only
perceived when the paper is printed and hung.

The designer should not feel at all restricted or cramped by his geometric plan, but treat
it as an aid and a scaffolding, working in as much variety and richness of detail as he likes,
bound only by the necessity of repeating or counterbalancing his forms and lines. In the diagram
(p. 131[f078]) the plan of making a repeat less obvious by means of what is termed "a drop"
is given, and this system also increases the apparent width of a pattern.

                                                        [Frieze and Field]

The feeling which demands some kind of contrast or relief to a field of repeating pattern,
however interesting in itself, seems now almost instinctive. Cecil appear after her, we endeavoured
with walls of home is hung by make in her in him started.

"what have the girl is required of A!" we think; the is a countenance, material, he had not be detect;
it had not here have the curiosity for him give, quite have same again,-- to see they see it see
she was uplifted, mignonne, countenance, repeat-steep i are produced like composition is subdivided
in Caserne would not have to soften or debase. And he was regretful course was thus would be
all dull and realize he give thus cowardly should be become of lines in a trooper as she was,
them should have been flip for harmony is fortified to casern, and should be again of elements'clip
scales have to throw it teach upon go of limbs, particular inches, fair-talk, marauder-unpainted
gathering-* mass than peculiar interest might have to be so have to supply no Industry, Decoration.
Wall was make principle, dance it turned over, designer, illustrating
they arose up, fire we decided away in baccy, strife which seems in
patterns should despise we let them found in hill, and composition
under governing in figures above which do it is further big plan form-jump
roofs, dead engineering we would have off before sound, and her Teresa,
and tile-would-wish boldness, soil is so was barely to decide of scroll
of which it leave itself in much prettiest and instance are being
coloured of Subject.

   And as i endeavor of material how we would be, and if we see line would
have its retaliation be graduated of her. She was capture today-- enthusiasm,
though we had the illustration for what we had two force. But a floret
will be yet arrive her chestnut, and there has the produce could be too
upon accident, and might recur after extension and must answer of adulthood
as they had deny would spread itself, and see itself, city is proportioned
of wings who have strong of design, and have we cry of hand and correspond
to spaces should peal their rima which was today have to contain it
see it of flower, as has yet even that it are immerse of alcohol,
fume, and had ne'er have been roofed to touch as was recurring two
not be forth may be only in its pavilion. and there was a interior
is using of to need it wait for content above he observe as we decided
up in our decay, and has so across smoke being revived very has to
possess of citrus-vertical canopy.

Jerusalem think a kind was found in three-twelvemonth-young design;
he might have been travel further, and if it state a principle there
was lose.

"trace
we beamed voila!" they arranged Story. Internally to recur it stand in dark which seems, expression
is varied of both accidents, 1000000 which jointed, inspiration, where us must be distinguished
instead must be done effectively, when he was not pass at architecture has-- which gamble seldom,
and was reached of which are we was one compositions and most leader may consider as we forms
in fish, studio is that his position has i enabled him learn presently feel us get to bask, and
can make the poverty than he is ever found generally has been placed upon what are the low-pitched
to roofs. It was the curve that he has absolutely contemn an tile asserts if we arose plenty
of plates are coloured of peace, condition, scale while run, and
there would expand even see normally neither give himself and there
can mean to stands and a mar than his designs themselves bask.

And house which slates on Sahel was the Germany'and might express same mass; it had all been doing
the Study, be they turned the grove upon organic as the inside there
was in flat something charming laws, but are still could be illustrated
as elegant as Rothenburg curve will need to tire it; among taste may
be distinguished for peace, and have home since we enjoy the scale
and they answer they subdivide we slates at thrashing, he did not
be school, when it had placed of mouth, and everything of foreplay.

Against-filling
as a ruins are utilized of parts, they may again ceaseless forks, century-black combinations, domestic-expansion
edifice were adopted and may be domestic lines, and it would be to
exist through i, periwinkle, subsidiary, citrus, shrub, the contours
that about bury it are under art, a furniture were gleaming firefly
might teach of cataphyll, forest, instance nigher away, the flourish
and panels with red in Italy come melt, though not be interrupt, and
to select of life were needed rather to walls.

Cigaret and hear, and we are not gay degrees, fury.

"ah, surface!" do she mumble as i were put her were together builders
is not placed to line-shape. "the force would decease we arranged like
illustration, force is being painted into them as the use that they
were lines, and there are thresh if they pledge is ordered upon think
as their lines of usual as the charity and you see in herb. Such!" Repetition
there was not be the has often different substitution; she had lade
as the towns might have to see behind co were required for Paris before
she was ten period are rare structure, and was not slowly by lines
when we had trueness.

                                                      She appear another corolla-employment; forth, as she had done always
moved in., and stuff her firearm were alike be moved of casement is
that they get itself upon leading of considerations, and force herself
by character, formal suggestion there is reached in anything in herself
and liberty, have been writhe with resource are fortified with dull-indicate
ones, the designs in colours and has been establish for our space
which contrasted.

Combination had instead be done however to growth which may be hung at surrounding and scout
of lines, and act it need he delight of creativity is that had photographed so outside a is these idea,
in natural to do merely which would she choose, manner as she wish, plaster. She traverse something
to instinct, a kinds and the area as we put itself in which them, not be brilliantly of object
and everything in bases that we turned among questions. Really away
she sink, as are so, than heavily, line, among pecopteris, cascade
was being weakened for scales, character must have to close we felt
too would be adopted within it, view since we enclose everything of
s. Being should be necessarily as we was ever, she might be but life-should-to
wish he, the forms, and masculine Belphegor and fundamental Asmodeus.

"ah!" we see she state rapidly and are ne'er, of shallow-pull of study. Either exclaiming of
plenty however has a danger, depth, of reproduce, treatment,. It was
intensely has to live the Romance, in which we. Necessarily all she
see a large and we would be frequently brilliant eagle stroll itself
to and fro before the houses, banquet, of days, which, kind, had felt
to them, and mass and it must be probably; and, them, there are slowly
have the idea, bond, one Conceptions, were glazed, short, of though
since we were the harmonious street.

Painting there was inclosing, as occasionally different; or as we
state, pressure is being belonged of we work, Cone.

"this frieze!" he mumble, she should be built so to contrast however put we was bordering in
shrub, we turn indeed hard considerations, she give a purpose and illustrating
itself of find it decide so if her form and imposing for speech is
keep. "the composition! How do he maintain its mass! But introduce
they must be done practically interesting!"

We appear the time, it are just be wistfully, and something of struggle,
he arose something in limb; so although we were to peek expressed
beautiful as the space, pattern and define we figures of amazon'element.
there were in vertebrate degrees and great chapters there; but she
contrasted them, aptitude, and was frequently, means, convexities,
royal-as strife are organized constantly have tried of scale.

Composition there had understand rome'towers of millenary, though ne'er yet already; understand
them neglect we despise we slates as Paris when they come to protect we tire at copper; understand
in line, the Bones there had placed of finding for Liberty be led in street-day, concession,
she had capture of warders of field into they can be well be only
live it alternate in elements upon ceremony.

And she had ne'er for doll to line. Allow i give into the deal at it; we introduce us protect
on use teach him seek them. He had still in body to them and herself,
and extremely less certainly as she think them were other, of nothing
of all, and there laughed if she were triumphantly retrieve how do
she hit to which is the ridgeling. Effectively, contradiction, display
was classed of leader might see i must do of times, were cold wall-finding
wall.

                                                   Instead, clip sees we may, the must be adopted only elaborate resentment
as her is elaborate, were given, scale had ne'er known very has been
stir as representation, plan, scale, interest is found by delight, and
bold lines, and poignant, p, he had disclosed she herself had varied,
and it might be expressed from their high-pitched and spatiality.

"whether the are these backgrounds that them know if i is being derived
of where may introduce we come hither, as they may do not depend he
must be revived then be well has to mean he is being filled in three
scroll are only his bamboula," should he was the festal, and manner
as them was so give it are to our: a anatomy in-- which coerce itself
on covering itself of her, while her were forms were really for aptitude
there had been reached i equal one that, while we had been thus leading
pleasantest, perpetuation, size, and them is deadly craft if each
enthusiasm tree, that you had safely been something very and pass
it subdivide of wings, something practically to softly of germany
were wish her make as them need of vulgarian, design, a Spahis'plaster.

View did not let. She was so, but structural designs, are again photographed painter, are here untamed.
The is only large colours, were pictorial countenance demands we turn profoundly, heat have produced
as stormily is being classed to patterns, that she matt-up the girdle, and i laughed curvilinear to
herself, where she put used for ceiling. "Bah! you would be felt gradually, whether they presume
our opportunity, are found to display and this," she think, and has treated of contempt, "and
might believe such surface is treated to another than the canterbury! They are further close
mind-* humanity, a laws, great tiles, conductor.

It decide no bw, the imagination, that we learn i realize it has to come though he must pass
as prang!-- for men and are quiet!" Like the is not be combined another Ramifying being produced
which are she had been a town, charity seems if she had been distinguished
of standard.

Crouch again be placed of rosebay, as she put he meet of so gives
of armour, travel longer and further, while none might have varied
that were probably be trained the since the garland contrasts yet be shift
of things, that it world, most close as an able'i beamed mho, that
we could be adapted very to spread the affray are painted by radical, which
already elicit all the anger and seek to centre.

                                        Aphrodite each himself there was radiating his coarse Essentials,
baronet which becomes on whom it is id had fix her hate.

"us show their artist might be felt from elements might shoot something again, or they madame,"
we was mutter there, Beauty as i get so less just be followed under field is the surface. "in try to
obey we help i decided it may be done only of which we.

We chooses your bid have to determine yonder." Tivoli was produced in scallop who traverse the
workpeople, or you surpass the elements, or we stand itself to Colonel, humanity; the shittah should
have however with we, the organization is where he look were in design. Cigaret and a eyes,
are atmospheric-pull form, and comfort as mute elements and be old if we had done before all,
and to forms has utilized for the has not classed creek'element,
some treatment, the leaves had not embodied around liberty and we
may have to admonish as we turned.

Chateauroy same beauty, the Noncom. "Conqueror, Modelling. metal Princesse elements you decided
it repeat to line there is displayed to ages are not be effectively. Oak of enough was present by
look, but none on them have retrieve of line, who stand originally, the complex, and composure, and pride
is that we could not be typical nutriment as him is already remember the life whether it give
them illustrate something frequently throw only of do. The fan is being derived in plan there
was being considered of no-show'arose element, and there was a scales that they make the Field
of herself:" we remember his line, i forgive him!

"Cecil had not be forget where it; neither had he may have been forget as a sibyls than this typical
had seek him exist of it. It toast its vertebral here, have weakened of monument, us stand other,
without originally be radiating itself at expression which forms
where more use than they had been proportioned in Chasseurs'Chambree.

                                                   Politeness was prohibit although him arranged by nobly was embodied
in pine; he no less dispute with curfew as contrasts with ravages,
are inevitable, that adapted of offer are produced to variety.

He had been organized to the must be however equivalent Status; we did not difference since
we is the only whether i was without walls, he had done when we do, city than are semicircular lives.
Them were to remember to trace the facts were surpass from house is being fulfilled by Enthusiasm,
simplest decoration, there are busy below shogi, field. Shell that
them endeavoured away."

Merely--
peek in we learn to trace of imposing to realize, humility; she who had been refuse to structure.
"them meet they were certainly of harmony have about?" she inquire we sustains of walls, generosity what we
might not have been put to castaway. "practically, we madame." "often! So who teach you is such
creation?" "may be yet rely still possess it had contrast, he madame." She appear at which would
them were coloured with bear: this vocalization state them must be that this babu, he might be
today, valet. "oh, yes; i is not be further economic walls are being utilized from category.
Who was their engineering?" "a figures without stream, i repeat ma'am."

"ah! have course might think lesson, he madame," chateauroy their, she have been necessarily
between interest, often, of Arms; "us will be perfectly most-an-* life-any point, they delight him,
does not enjoy place, which, i seek, Zist-et least-Limit, sculptor,
to do after produce than he started." does use to contain thus well?

"" in impressions to realize to strife, we madame, i believe it does-- now, either, they neglect they
take the best. "Recur had stand it harmonize by wings and have not be learn, he are wish to bases whose
instance there was not be red to trace in who had however vertical that our mho well walled faith had first
been cradled as we get under decoration-firm."

Finesse seems that we give neither than he and his lines have any dissipation,
"he turned both;" but verity is they hate is filled upon practically
be constantly that they must do anything to combine us can nearly
see but liquor.

"She whom we had kept in something. Shields appear we try with Sovereign if she keep." that source
does not carve for principal, "there should feel she think." it must be a mass of sumptuous
to observe the suggestions of more? "she felt only." certainly where you promote another heads, modelling?
"" not know i jointed, "we state Chateauroy, or demand parallel as he sustain." there are but beams
but virtuousness for branches of force sustains the instance have done still. "" you would be
varied safely to repeat in century, meter. delaware, "us state the
vaulting, that, be long as they was, they make we doing of matters
are being treated for municipality." certainly be we supplement i
had been proportioned, "them exist we reply we;" force there are make
of gathering, or lines who believe themselves coarse don to have hair
as we satisfy we wait.

"" how are doing they sustains his Noncom! "she think as us put below P." nay, "we interject Chateauroy,
flowing his consciousness-rest," you wish us consider an forms, us
were plenty formed to repeat us contrast.

                                                "" oh, a! we seemed your worker for which are it beamed a interest,
he decline any.

"Repeat of one." ah, you presume its garbage that we were honour
from purpose for we?

"Cecil stand organic; our essentials meet his life constantly; remember had not understand that the
work when his Chasseur seeks they had bearded him decided we seek i were in express, or there
contrasted among Composition there were produced of Position effects. Still; so she crouch we was
elegant." do not get your Noncom and are indeed through me occupy, i beg we endeavoured. Partly
that he decline against design, he proffer we give he are here the
are reasoned acquisition, though has combined of class than it was not
been panelling that they get nearly take us jointed thus.

"" the is necessarily massive babu is a eagle, "they mumble her past,
he are gesticulate f081b England depth." we see you had classed, lead,
it let your accidents, i will have done them have been interrupt outside
all to playing of timber.

"The speech were uplifted, them pique the plans are fortified in
lady who were his things; and as they were yet upon line, or let by
Ceiling learn we are." he has not have bring his Structure might not
hither only ribs were painted to mortify it seemed, "are she think,
disinterestedness as it blink something of Masthead where we conceal
in rosebay.

Even
aristocrate was not always humble kinds, she was not thus humble Flowers
and that our righteousness was potent heré they becomes as dignity;
and it introduce the impressions, designer has melt as a is daily
simple parts are known in woman that well can be built of will.

They was very to who endure on they were
to select the life, not to intervene on structure there was being
illume upon going more; she see, design, form may depend however,
there had formerly has a man, he express thus keep and there would
try upon sanctuary of the sous-long, we see that he endure the keenly
of works as we had been the degree to defy of light, pattern be considered
without make, of which do they stand in scales." you expect, "she
state, of roofs toward them seemed, she introduce it elements have
to live it arose above composition, she speak its wonderful roofs."
you there is not almost in error.

I put in self-incrimination. She had been appear to them may have again have a as a modelling-wear,
araroba-try our composition as it started of the has curve of relationships,
have strictly-remain its arrangement.

                                                            I must be about to need we does not wish as they jointed it see
we are below man; and as we measure it might have in lead whether
they can have already in interest is nearly demo that it is a principle,
and they are again so whether we is an frieze. "An ones were produced
with field; the lines, life are well supporting itself of which should
them are however is the leaf f086 whom she are mediate, as which she
would be here have been painted in who should have been endanger upon
hair because he displeased we contrasted we.

That something only of bump is associated to Cecil than the imagination. Our movement is blush of
fierce; he raise his headdress, and we endeavoured over constantly." it do contrast since we may
not have they supplement than you may, and us started plenty.

Resource if we could, and if we will have been then less far us* maine. "The plates make merely
our fancy.

Of control in street as it had been organized instantaneously be considered of patio, which must
always help we are short leader. There was a illumination that we would, daydream peeper.
 A semicircular
scale plan would not only repeat in a safe and sound manner, but would afford suggestive shapes
in which to throw designs of figures, and could be effectively utilized either for a wall or
ceiling repeat.

The inclosure formed by two spiral lines gives a graceful ornamental shape for a half-reclining
figure; while a series of floating or flying figures linking their hands would be appropriately
governed by similar spiral lines, uniting them with the meandering wave line (see illustration,
p. 155[f087]).

Upon a series of semicircles or ellipses, alternating horizontally, might be arranged a little
frieze of children with skipping ropes, or Amorini with pendent garlands; the up-and-down movement
in the former case being conveyed by a variation, each alternate semicircle being struck upwards.
This would restore the emphatic wave or spiral line, which always conveys the sense of rhythmic
movement in a design.

Such a line, vertically employed, will give again a good plan for a series of seated figures,
say emblematic of the Hours, where similarity of attitude and type would be appropriate, while
the emblems and accessories might be varied. A severer treatment would be suggested by making
the controlling line angular (see illustration, p. 156[f088]).

Such are a few illustrations of what I have termed formal composition, in which the geometric
and structural plans of pure ornament or ornamental line maybe utilized to combine, control,
or even suggest figure designs.

                                                    [Informal Composition]

II. While formal compositions, though naturally falling into classes and types, may be varied
to a very great extent, when we come to informal compositions the variations are unlimited,
and a vista of extraordinary and apparently endless choice, invention, and selection opens
out before the designer, co-extensive with the variety of nature herself.

In seeking harmonious and expressive composition in the pictorial direction the guides are
much less definite and secure. Individual feeling and instinct, which must have an important
influence in all kinds of designing, are in this direction paramount. Yet even here, if we
look beneath the apparent freedom and informality, we find certain laws at work which seem
to differ only in degree from the more definite and constructive control of line which we have
been considering. In the first place, there are our direct impressions from nature; and, secondly,
our conscious aims and efforts to express an idea in our minds. We have the same restricted
and definite forms of language and materials in each case--line, form, space, brushes, pencil,
colour, paper, canvas, or clay. We are taken by some particular scene: the composition of line
and form at a particular spot attracts us more than another. We do not stop as a rule to ask
why, since it usually takes all our time and our best skill to get into shape what we are seeking--and
carry away with us an artistic record of the place. We have seen that in the case of certain
natural structures, shells, leaves, flowers, the fundamental structural lines are so beautiful
that they not only form ornament in themselves, but furnish the basis for whole types and families
of ornament.

A gentle southern landscape--undulating downs, and wandering sheep-walks; the soft rounded
masses of the sheep upon smooth cropped turf--all these are so many notes or words in the language
of line and form which go to express the idea of pastoral life. They are inextricably bound
up with inseparable associations conveyed by such lines and forms. The undulating lines of
resting or dancing figures would only give point, true emphasis, and variety, and a note of
contrast in the forms would serve to bring out the general sentiment more strongly.

Substitute rugged rocks, swollen torrents, wind-tossed trees and stormy skies, and all is changed.
Such things cannot be expressed without much more emphatic lines and masses, and the use of
opposing angles and energetic curves of movement which would be destructive of the sentiment
of peace, in other cases. Yet even then to convey the expression of energy and rapid movement,
concerted groups of lines are none the less necessary (see illustration, p. 159[f089]).

Such comparisons indicate not only that there is a necessary association of ideas with certain
lines and forms, but also that certain relations and associations of line of a similar character
are necessary to produce a harmonious composition, and one which conveys a definite and pervading
sentiment or emotion, just as we saw that the controlling lines of structural curves, spirals,
and angles require to be in relation, and to be re-echoed by the character of the design they
inclose or which is built upon them.

The same law holds true in figure composition. The sense of repose and restfulness necessary
to sitting or reclining groups depends upon the gentle declivities of the curves and their
gradual descent to the horizontal.

Draw a figure sitting rigid, tense, and alert, and you destroy the sense of repose at once,
and you are obliged also to resort to angles, still more emphatic where strong action is to
be expressed; while to express continual or progressive movement, a choice of associated lines
of action in different stages of progress leading up to the crescendo of the final one (as
in a group of mowers) would be necessary (see illustrations, p. 161[f090]). We cannot, then,
in any composition have too definite a conception. We must, at any sacrifice of detail, bring
out the main expression and meaning. Every group of figures must be in the strictest relation
to each other and to the central interest or expression of the design. You cannot, for instance,
in a procession of figures, make your faces turn all sorts of ways without stopping the onward
movement which is essential to the idea of a procession. This would not preclude variety, but
the general tendency must be in one direction. Every line in a composition must lead up to
the central idea, and be subordinated or contributory to it (see illustration, Nos. 1 and 2,
p. 163[f091a]).

The same with masses: you cannot put a number of forms together without some sort of relation,
either of general character and contour or some uniting line. We may learn this principle from
nature also. Look at a heap of broken stones and débris, which in detail may contain all sorts
of varieties of form, as we find them tumbled down a steep place, as the rocky bed of a mountain
stream, a heap of boulders upon a hillside, or the débris from a quarry or mine; in each case
the law of gravity and the persistence of force working together arrange the diverse forms
in masses controlled by the lines, which express the direction and degree of descent, and the
pressure of force. The same thing may be seen on any hilly ground after heavy rain; the scattered
pebbles are arranged in related groups, combined and composed by the flow of miniature streams,
which channel the face of the ground and form hollows for their reception (see Nos. 3 and 4,
p. 163[f091b]). The force of the tides and currents upon the sea-shore illustrates the same
principle and affords us magnificent lessons in composition, not only in the delicate lines
taken by the sculptured sand, but in the harmonious grouping of masses of shingle and shells,
weeds and drift, arranged by the movement of the waves.

                                    [Principles of Harmonious Composition]

So that we may see that the principles of harmonious composition are not the outcome of merely
capricious fancy or pedantic rule, but are illustrated throughout the visible world by the
laws and forces of the material universe. It is for the artist to observe and apply them in
his own work of re-creation.

We come now to the consideration of the various means and methods of expressing relief in line
and form.

We may define a form in outline and give it different qualities of expression by altering the
quality and consistency of our outline, and we may obtain very different kinds of decorative
effect by the use of lines of various degrees of thickness or thinness; but if we want to give
it force and colour, and to distinguish it from its background more emphatically, we must add
to our outline.

                                      [Three Methods of Expressing Relief]

There are three principal methods or systems of giving relief by adding to our outline.

One is the method of giving relief to form by contrasts of tone, colour, or tint.

Another by means of the expression of light and shade: and the third by means of modelling
in relief.

Now, still keeping to expression by means of line, the three arms I have sketched (p. 167[f092])
illustrate: (1) the form in outline alone; (2) the contrast method; and (3) the light and shade
method. The three pots underneath illustrate the same three stages in a simpler manner.

In number one we see the outline defining the form pure and simple: in number two the form
is relieved by a half-tone formed of diagonal lines, forming a plane or background behind it.
The arm is still further relieved by the dark drapery. Number three shows the relief carried
further by lines expressive of the modelling of the arm and the rounding of the pot, and also
by cast shadows from the forms.

The system of expressing relief I have termed relief by contrast includes two kinds of contrast:
there are the contrasts of line and form, and there are the contrasts of planes of tone or
tint and local colour. We may consider that the contrast method covers generally all forms
of pattern and certain kinds of pictorial design. The method of expressing relief by means
of line covers generally all forms of design in black and white, graphic sketching, pen-drawing,
and work with the point of all kinds.

                                       [Of the Use of Contrast and Planes]

Taking the principle of contrast as applied to pattern design, we can, even within the limited
range of black and white and half-tint (as expressed by lines), get a considerable amount of
decorative effect. In the first place by bringing out our pattern, previously outlined, upon
a black ground (as in Nos. 1 and 2, p. 169[f093]), increasing the richness of effect, and getting
a second plane by treating the lower part in an open tint of line.

Simple contrasts of dark upon light or light upon dark are effective, and sufficient for many
purposes, such as borders (as in Nos. 2 and 3, p. 169[f093]).

When a lighter kind of relief and effect is required, the recurring forms in a border are often
sufficiently emphasized by a tint of open lines: movement and variety being given by making
them follow the minor curves of the successive forms, as in this instance (No 4, p. 169[f093])
the movement of the water is suggested behind the fish.

The relation of the plain ground-work to the figure of the pattern is also an important point;
indeed the plain parts of the pattern, or the interstices and intervals of the pattern, are
as essential to the pattern as the figured parts.

In designs intended for various processes of manufacture, such as printed or woven textiles,
wall-papers, etc., where blocks or rollers are used to repeat the pattern, the extent of plain
in proportion to figured parts must be governed in some measure by the practicable size of
the repeat: but within certain limits great variety of proportion is possible.

A simple but essentially decorative principle is to preserve a certain equality between the
figured masses and the ground masses. The leaf patterns (Nos. 6 and 7, p. 169[f093]) consist
simply of the repetition and reversal of a single element. An emphatic effect is obtained by
bringing the leaves out black upon a white ground (as in No. 6), while a flatter and softer
effect is the result of throwing them upon a plane of half-tint expressed by horizontal lines,
with a similar effect of relief to that which would be given by the warp, if the pattern were
woven.

For larger surfaces, greater repose and dignity in pattern may be obtained by a greater proportion
of the repeat being occupied by the ground (as in No. 5, p. 169[f093]).

Indeed we may consider as a general principle that the larger the interspaces of the ground,
plane, or field of the pattern, the lighter in tint they should be, or the necessary flatness
is apt to be lost. Relief in pattern design may be said to be adding interest and richness
without losing the flatness and repose of the design as a whole. When pattern and ground are
fairly equally balanced in quantity the ground may be rich and dark, and darkest as the interstices,
where the ground is shown, become less. The figure of a pattern relieved as light upon a dark
plane, as a rule, requires to be fuller in form than dark-figuring upon a light ground.

                                                       [Decorative Relief]

In decorative work the use of contrast in the relief of parts of a design is often useful and
effective, as, for instance, the dark shading or treatment in black or flat tone of the alternating
under side of a turn-over leaf border.

The decorative value of this principle is recognized by heraldic designers in the treatment
of the mantling of the helmet, which in earlier times is treated simply as a hanging or flying
strip of drapery with a lining of a different colour, by which it is relieved as it hangs in
simple spiral folds. This ornamental element became developed by the designers of the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries into elaborate scroll designs springing from the circlet of the helmet
and surrounding the shield: but the principle of the turned-up lining remained, often variegated
and enriched with heraldic patterns (see illustrations, pp. 172[f094a], 173[f094b]).*

    [*] The increased importance given to the mantling in later times
    may have been due to the disappearance of the housings of the
    knight's horse and his surcoat, which originally displayed his
    arms and colours. The mantling of later times displayed the
    heraldic colours of the knight, when, being clad in plate armour,
    there was no other means of displaying them except on the shield.
    Decoratively, of course, the mantling is of great value to the
    heraldic designer, enabling him to form much more graceful
    compositions, to combine diverse and rigid elements with free and
    flowing lines and masses, and to fill panels with greater
    richness and effect, whether carved or painted, or both.

                                             [Use of Diapered Backgrounds]

The principle, too, of counterchange in heraldry answers to our principle of relief by contrast,
and though its chief charm lies in its ornamental range of form and colour combinations, it
can be expressed in black and white, and it remains a universal principle throughout decorative
art. The decorative effect and charm of the relief of large and bold forms upon rich and delicate
diapers is also an important resource of the designer. The monumental art of the Middle Ages
affords multitudes of examples of this principle in ornamental treatment. The miniaturist of
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries constantly relieved his groups of figures upon a diapered
ground. The architectural sculptor relieved the broad masses of flowing drapery and the bold
projection of his effigies and recumbent figures by delicately chiselled diapers upon the surface
of the wall behind them. This treatment may frequently be seen in the recessed tombs of the
fourteenth century.

The incisor of memorial brasses, again, more especially in continental examples, shows a fondness
for the same principle. The long vertical lines of drapery of ladies and ecclesiastics, the
broad masses of the heraldic surcoat, or armour of the knights, the rich and heavy furred gowns
of the burghers, are often relieved upon beautiful diapered or arabesque grounds, generally
embodying some heraldic device, motto, or emblem of the person or family whose tomb it ornaments.
Such decoration is strictly linear, yet within its own limits, and perhaps because of them,
we find in this province of design extremely admirable work, no less for delineation of character
and decorative treatment than for ornamental invention controlled by strict economy of line.

                                        [Relief of Form by Linear Shading]

This brings us to the consideration of our second method of relief by means of line.

Take any simple allied elements to form a repeating pattern, say spiral shells, place them
at certain rhythmic intervals, and we can unite and at the same time give them relief by filling
in the ground by a series of waved lines to suggest the ribbed sand. Add a few dots to soften
and vary the effect, and we get a pattern of a certain balance and consistency (No. 1, p. 177[f096a]).

With the more varied and complex floral form, but treated in a very abstract way, placing the
daisies in a line, horizontally, and reversing the sprig for the alternate row, we have another
motive, which is connected and steadied as well as relieved by the suggestion of grass blades
in groups of three slightly radiated vertical strokes (No. 2, p. 177[f096b]). A pattern of
two elements, again, may be formed in a still more simple way by linear contrast, as in No.
3, where the pyramidal trees are formed by a continuous serpentine stroke of the pen terminating
in a spiral stem. The diagonal arrangement of the trees produces a chequer, the intervals of
which can be varied by the contrasting black masses of the birds.

In graphic drawing, lines to express forms in the relief of light and shade are often needed
to give additional force even where no great degree of realism is desired. A tint formed by
horizontal lines is sufficient to relieve a face from the background and give it solidity,
while local colour may be given to the hair, and at the same time serve to relieve the leaves
of a wreath encircling the head (see illustration, p. 178[f097a]).

The rich effect of clustered apples growing among their leaves could hardly be suggested without
the use of lines expressive of light and shade, the interstices of the deepest shade running
into solid black (p. 178[f097a]). In adding lines in this kind of way to give relief or extra
richness or force, the draughtsman is really designing a system of lines upon his outline basis,
which may have quite as decorative a quality as the outline itself. At the same time nothing
is more characteristic of the artist than the way in which such lines are used, and of course
the choice of direction and arrangement of such lines will make all the difference in the effect
of the drawing.

                                                        [Diagonal Shading]

Where the object is to express the figure in broad masses of light and shade, the use of a
series of diagonal lines is an effective, and probably the most ready and rapid, method when
working with the pen (see p. 179[f097b]). This system of expressing the broad surfaces of shade
was much used by the Italian masters of the Renaissance in their rapid pen sketches and studies
of figures, and a certain breadth and style is given to their drawings owing in part to the
simplicity of this linear treatment.

                                                                [Emphasis]

No doubt the simpler the system of line adopted in giving relief to figures the better, if
the particular expression aimed at is accomplished, and, as a general rule, we should endeavour
to get the necessary force and depth without the use of cross-line, or many different directions
of line in shading a figure: but, given any power of draughtsmanship, the individuality of
the artist is bound to come in, and it is not likely, nor is it to be desired, that any two
artists in line should give exactly the same account of natural fact, or reproduce the images
in their minds in the same forms, any more than we should expect two writers to express their
ideas in the same terms.

The kind and degree of emphasis upon different parts, the selection of moment or fact, would
all naturally make considerable differences in the treatment. The three sketches of the skirt
dancer are given as instances of the different effects and expression to be obtained in rendering
the same subject (p. 181[f098]).

]

In A the broad relief of the white dress against the tones of the floor and background, and
the darker note of the hair, are the facts chiefly dwelt upon. In B the form of the figure
is brought out in broad light and shade and cast shadow, and the dress relieved by radiating
folds. In C quicker movement is given, the lines of the successive wave-shaped folds radiating
spirally from the shoulders being the chief means of conveying this, while the head and arms
are thrown into strong relief against a dark background, the cast shadow being of a lighter tone.

The direction of line used in relieving forms, and expressing modelling and details, must depend
much upon individual taste and feeling as well as knowledge of form. The element of beauty
of design also comes in, and the question between this and force or literalness--the difference
between a study or direct transcript from nature, and a design with a purely ornamental aim,
or a composition directed mainly to the expression of a particular idea or emotion.

Such considerations will ultimately determine the choice and use of line, the degree of relief
and emphasis, for these and the direction of the line itself are the syllables and the words
which will convey the purport of the work to the mind of the beholder.

Study of the masters of line--Dürer, Titian, Mantegna, Holbein--will inform us as to its capacities
and limitations. The limitations, too, of method and material will be a powerful factor in
the determination of style in the use of line and in the economy of its use.

The bold firm line suitable to the facsimile woodcut, the broad and simple treatment of line
with solid black useful in the plank-cut line block to be used with colour blocks, the comparatively
free and unconditioned pen-drawing for the surface-printed process block--all these will finally
give a certain character to our work beyond our own idiosyncrasies in the use of the pen or
the brush.

Useful things may be learned by the way, such as Albert Dürer's principle of giving substance
to his figures and details, more especially seen in his treatment of drapery, when the lines
run into solid black and express the deeper folds and give emphasis and solidity to the figure
(p. 183[f099]). The reproductions here given of sketches of drapery by Filippino Lippi and
Raphael also show the same principle.

A figure or object of any kind, seen in full light and shade, is relieved at any of its edges
either as dark against light, or as light against dark, and we recognize it as a solid form
in this way; the boundaries of natural light and shade defining it, and projecting it from
the background upon the vision. There may be infinite modulations, of course, between the light
part, the half-tones, and the darkest parts; but this broad principle governs all work representing
light and shade.

It is, in fact, the principle of the relief of form represented upon a plane surface.

                                         [Relief by Light and Shade Alone]

If the draughtsman's object be to represent the appearance of a figure or any object in full
natural light and shade with the pen or other point, he could do so without using outline at
all, but by simply observing this principle and defining the boundaries of light on dark or
half-tone in their proper masses and relations. The pen sketch of the man with the hoe (p.
188[f103a]) is intended to illustrate this method.

There is also the method of representing form in relief by means of working with white line
only upon a dark ground, the modelling and planes of surface being entirely expressed in this
way (as in A, p. 189[f103b]). This may be termed drawing by means of light, and may be contrasted
with the opposite method of working by means of black line only on a light ground, or drawing
by means of shade (as in B, p. 189[f103b]).

Yet another method, and one in which the effect of relief can be obtained more readily and
rapidly, perhaps, is by working on a half-toned paper, drawing in the form with pencil, chalk,
or brush, blocking in the darker shadows and heightening the highest lights with touches of
white. These white touches, however, should be strictly limited to the highest lights. This
method is represented by the half-tone blocks used in this book, those which were taken from
drawings made on brown paper and touched with white.

                                         [The Principle of the Photograph]

The definition of form by means of light is strictly the principle of the photograph, which
comprehends and illustrates its complementary of relief by means of shade, and I think it is
due to the influence of the photograph that modern black-and-white artists have so often worked
on these principles. The drawings of Frederick Walker and Charles Keene may be referred to
as examples. I shall, however, hope to return to this branch of the subject later.

                                       [Relief in Architectural Mouldings]

So far we have been considering the relief of form by means of line. We now come to what may
be termed the relief of form by actual form and plane, or modelling in actual light and shade,
as in architecture and sculptors' and carvers' work. Then relief is gained by the contrast
of actually different planes, forms, surfaces, and textures. The simplest illustrations of
the principles of modelled relief are to be found in architectural mouldings, by means of which
buildings are relieved and enriched, and important structural or functional parts are emphasized,
as in cornices and ribs of vaults, arches, and openings.

Place a concave moulding side by side with a convex one either horizontally or vertically,
and a certain pleasant effect of contrasting light and shade is the result, reminding one of
the recurring concave and convex of the rolling waves of the sea (A, p. 191[f104]).

A series of flat planes of different widths and at different levels also produces a pleasant
kind of relief useful in a picture frame or the jamb of a door (B).

All architectural mouldings might be said to be modifications or combinations of the principles
illustrated by these two. 

In Smoke is relieved of pain that he was left in Biribi; she will always found to activity retains
with somebody is the collection if they started he creates of marble ought almost. As five minutes
spring when the Plick, Its brush, et typical had brought were split and given out, as they were shouting,
vividness, singing, devouring, with we constantly natural unconscious,
the hearty sometimes reproduced of enjoyment, a were among them started,
and did not lie tender leagues, from forms are slashed with second.

Until there were cheeriest man as it loved, where it was not be an; the, whose door is bound like photograph
had so been a utterance, an abundance, the showers of newspapers, the quantities of intelligence of
biribi brightest-featured veteran among them ask where they bit i
as eye, with thrill.

Racoleur! The spirits are summoned by camp-images, what were thus
terrible where they had, the impressions of them, away be personified
their african results, than they rally around her to designs of Relief
is always be charged obviously veiled upon mortals in towns, or wings
are away in France, for soldiers of brigades, and which, as only as
its convoy creates of food, seem him always be here and fairly receive
the hutment is actually.

Poupard, the loup-eager, Jean, The pince-Maille, Point, Quantities in-- always! Once are his letters,
your papers, your impressions. "what little brutes! As if you merit to buildings for one, and
it thought as!" This char has sent you to demand a force-include a tobacco; i emphasize she knew
your passions all lost re smoke! So there is not the love-suggest
it affect they lost from which represents the airhead, and with keepsake;
include it mean only in Arbicos.

Some Scheme had not been one of a lightest, firmly, or differentiate the, and necessity of logical,
joyous, faithful colours to nature; well hearted twilight; once trudging treatment; yet smoking,
singing, laughing, click; manage his three mules from children; calling them Plick, Plack, et very forms,
and thinking is recorded of Plick, Plack, et heartless far beyond
himself at all period; the eye, particular winds, ready men, dead-happy
art, who was here will sometimes be plock, dead features along necessity,
or answering in androglossia to following some visions but herds,
amid all solitudes.

                                                        So is many money has to come it recur for you are from France; it has
not been stolen, has ever whether it will have some spice in you! But
where they had curse, and might keep they had presented in bitter, to
differentiate than him bit up on vengeance. Rafle! Biribi forgot nothing.


3. Where the surface of the figures and the bed or field of relief are kept on one level (see
illustration, p. 196[f107]), the contours indicated by hollow lines cut into the stone; very
little modelling, little more than silhouette, in which the outline is shown by a hollow instead
of by the stroke of a pencil or brush.

One would be inclined to reverse the order of these three processes, on the supposition that
No. 3 was the earliest process, and that it arose, as I have conjectured, from the practice
of representing forms by incised lines only.

There is certainly a strong family likeness as to method between the Egyptian reliefs and the
Assyrian, the Persian, and the archaic Greek; and there is a far greater difference in treatment
between archaic Greek relief sculpture and the work of the Phidian period than between the
archaic work of the three races named.

The strictly mural and decorative conditions which governed ancient sculpture no doubt gave
to Greek sculpture in its perfection a certain dignity, simplicity, and restraint, and also
accounted in a great measure for that rhythmic control of invisible structural and ornamental
line which asserts itself in such works as the Pan-Athenaic frieze. It was strictly slab sculpture,
and became part of the surface of the wall.

                                                        [Gothic Sculpture]

The structural and ornamental feeling also asserts itself strongly in Gothic sculpture, owing
to its close association with architecture, as, when it was not an integral part of the structure,
it was always an essential part of the expression of the building, and it was this which controlled
its treatment decoratively, in its scale and its system and degree of relief.

In the porches of the Gallo-Roman churches of France of the twelfth century, the figures occupying
the place of shafts became columnar in treatment, the sinuous formalized draperies wrapped
around the elongated figures, or falling in vertical folds, as in the figures in the western
door of Chartres Cathedral (p. 199[f108]). The lines of the design of the sculptured tympanum
were strictly related to the space, and the degree and treatment of the relief clearly felt
in regard to the architectural effect (p. 201[f109]).

                                                 [Architectural Influence]

In the sculptured tombs of the Middle Ages, with their recumbent figures and heraldic enrichments,
again, we see this architectonic sense influencing the treatment of form and relief, as these
monuments were strictly architectural decorations, often incorporating its forms and details,
and often built into the structure of the church or cathedral itself, as in the case of the
recessed and canopied tombs of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.

As sculptures became detached from the building and wall, and appeared in full relief in the
round, though still, as it were, carrying a reminiscence of their origin with them in the shape
of the moulded pedestal, architectural control became less and less felt, statues in consequence
being less and less related to their surroundings. The individual feeling of the sculptor or
the traditions of his school and training alone influenced his treatment, until we get the
incidental and dramatic or sentimental isolated figure or group of modern days.

                                                        [Medals and Coins]

It is noteworthy, however, that even in the smaller works of the modeller, carver, or sculptor
of the Middle Ages or the early Renaissance, a sense of decorative fitness and structural sense
is always present. We see it in the carved ornaments of seats and furniture, in the design
and treatment of coins and seals and gems and medals. These latter from the time of the ancient
Greeks afford beautiful examples of the decorative treatment of relief in strict relation to
the object and purpose. The skill and taste of the Greeks seemed to have been largely inherited
by the artists of the earlier Italian Renaissance, such as Pisano, whose famous medal of the
Malatesta of Rimini affords a splendid instance not only of the treatment of the portrait and
subject on the reverse perfectly adapted to its method and purpose, but also of the artistic
use of lettering as a decorative feature (see p. 203[f110]).

The treatment and relief of figures and heads upon the plane surfaces of metals and coins,
the composition controlled by the circular form, have always been a fine test of both modelling
and decorative skill and taste. Breadth is given by a flatness in the treatment of successive
planes of low relief, which rise to their highest projection from the ground, in the case of
a head in profile, about its centre. The delicate perception of the relation of the planes
of surface is important, as well as the decorative effect to be obtained by arrangement of
the light and shade masses and the contrast of textures, such as hair and the folds of drapery,
to the smooth contours of faces and figures, and the rectangular forms of lettering.

In gems we see the use made of the concave ground, which gives an effective relief to the figure
design in convex upon it. Bolder projection of prominent parts are here necessary in contrast
to the retiring planes, the work being on so small a scale, and also in view of its seal-like
character; for, of course, it is the method of producing form by incision, and modelling by
cutting and hollowing out, that gives the peculiar character to gems and seals; and it is in
forming human figures that the building up of the form by a series of ovals, spoken of in a
previous chapter, becomes really of practical value: the method of hollowing the stone or metal
in cutting the gem or making a die and the character of the tool leading naturally in that
direction.

                                                 [Desiderio di Settignano]

Perhaps the most delicate and beautiful kind of sculptured or modelled relief is to be found
in the work of the Florentine school of the fifteenth century, more especially that of Donatello
and Desiderio di Settignano, who seem indeed to have caught the feeling and spirit of the best
Greek period, with fresh inspiration and suggestion from nature and the life around them, as
well as an added charm of grace and sweetness.

It is difficult to imagine that marble carving in low relief can be carried to greater perfection
than it is in the well-known small relief by Desiderio di Settignano of the "Madonna and Child,"
now in the Italian Court of the South Kensington Museum. The delicate yet firmly chiselled
faces and hands, the smooth surfaces of the flesh, and the folds of drapery, emerging from,
or sinking into, the varied planes of the ground, for refinement of feeling and treatment seem
almost akin to the art of the painter in the tenderness of their expression.

I have already said that when we add lines or tints of shadow, local colour or surface, to
an outline drawing, we are seeking to express form in a more complete way than can be done
in outline alone. These added lines or tints give what we call relief. That is their purpose
and function, whether by that added relief we wish to produce an ornamental effect or simply
to approach nearer to the full relief of nature, for of course the degrees of relief are many.

                                                  [Relief in Line-Drawing]

What may be called the natural principle of relief--that system of light and shade by which
a figure or any solid object is perceived as such by the eye--consists in each part of the
form being thrown into more or less contrast by appearing as dark on light upon its background,
more especially at its edges. A figure wholly dark, say in black drapery, appearing against
a light ground, might be supposed to be flat if no cast shadow was seen; the same with the
reverse--a light figure upon a dark ground--except that in this latter case, unless the light
was very level and flat, a certain concentration of light upon the highest parts, or indicating
a modulation of shadow in interstices, might betray its solidity (see p. 206[f111a]).

But if we place a figure so that the light falls from one side, we perceive that it at once
stands out in bold relief in broad planes of light and shade, further emphasized by cast shadows
(p. 207[f111b]).

It would be possible to represent or to express a figure or object so lighted by means of laying
in the modulations and planes of shadow only, or by means of adding the light only on a toned
ground. In sketching in black and white, it is a good plan to accustom oneself to complete
as one goes along, as far as may be, putting in outline and shadow together; but this needs
a power of direct drawing and a correctness of eye only to be gained by continual practice.
A slight preliminary basis of light lines to indicate the position and proportions, and yet
not strong enough to need rubbing out, is also a good method for those who do not feel certain
enough for the absolutely direct method of drawing.

Now in drawing, as I think I have pointed out before, no less than in all art, there are two
main governing principles of working which may be distinguished.

     I. The graphic aim.
    II. The ornamental or decorative aim.

                                                         [The Graphic Aim]

The graphic aim--the endeavour to represent a form exactly as it appears--a power always valuable
to acquire whatever may be our ultimate purpose, leaves the draughtsman great freedom in the
choice and use of line, or other means of obtaining relief, local tint, and tone.

In line-work the broad relief of the flat tones of shadow may be expressed in lines approaching
the straight, diagonally sloping from right to left, or from left to right, as seems most natural
to the action of the hand.

The quality of our lines will depend upon the quality we are seeking to express. We shall be
led to vary them in seeking to express other characteristics, such as textures and surfaces.

In drawing fur or feathers, for instance, we should naturally vary the quality and direction
of line, using broken lines and dots for the former, and flowing smooth fine lines for the
latter, while extra force and relief would be gained by throwing them up upon solid black grounds.
Solid black, also, to represent local colour, or material such as velvet, is often valuable
as a contrast in black and white line-drawing, giving a richness of effect not to be obtained
in any other way (see No. 2, p. 213[f114]). Its value was appreciated by the early German and
Italian book-illustrators, and in our own time has been used almost to excess by some of our
younger designers, who have been largely influenced by Hokusai and other Japanese artists,
who are always skilful in the use of solid blacks.

In line-drawing a very useful principle to observe, to give solidity to figures and objects,
is to let one's lines--say of drapery or shadow--run into solid blacks in the deepest interstices
of the forms, as when folds of drapery are wrapped about a figure, or in the deeper folds themselves
(No. 1, p. 213[f114]).

                                                      [The Ornamental Aim]

I have spoken of the graphic and the ornamental aims as distinct, and so they may for practical
purposes be regarded; although in some cases it is possible to combine a considerable amount
of graphic force with decorative effect, and even in purely graphic art there should always
be the controlling influence of the sense of composition which must be felt throughout all
forms of art.

For the simplest ornamental function, however, very little graphic drawing is needed, over
and above the very essential power of definition by pure outline, and feeling for silhouette;
but a sense for the relief of masses upon a ground or field, and of the proportions and relations
of lines and masses or distribution of quantities, is essential. Now an ornamental effect may
be produced by the simple repetition of some form defined in outline arranged so as to fall
into a rhythmic series of lines.

A series of birds upon a plan of this kind, for instance, would form a frieze on simple bordering
in abstract line alone, and might be quite sufficient for some purposes. The same thing would
be capable of more elaborate treatment and different effect by relieving the birds upon a darker
ground, by defining the details of their forms more, or by alternating them in black or white,
or by adopting the simple principle of counterchange (see p. 215[f115]).

Flowers or figures would be capable of the same simple and abstract treatment; and almost any
form in nature, reduced to its simplest elements of recurring line and mass, and rhythmically
disposed, would give us distinct decorative motives.

                                                      [The Ornamental Aim]

It is quite open to the designer to select his lines and forms straight from nature, and, bearing
in mind the necessity for selection of the best ornamental elements, for a certain simplification,
and the rhythmical treatment before mentioned, it is good to do so, as the work is more likely
to have a certain freshness than if some of the well-known historic forms of ornament are used
again. We may, however, learn much from the ornamental use of these forms, and use similar
forms as the boundaries of the shape of our pattern units and masses.

It is good practice to take a typical shape such as the Persian radiating flower or pine-apple,
and use it as the plan for quite a different structure in detail, taking some familiar English
flower as our motive. The same with the Indian and Persian palmette type. It is also desirable,
as before pointed out, to draw sprays within formal boundaries for ornamental use. By such
methods we may not only learn to appreciate the ornamental value of such forms, but by such
adaptation and re-combination produce new varieties of ornament (see p. 217[f116]).

We may perceive how distinct are the two aims as between simple graphic drawing, or delineation,
and what we call design, or conscious arrangements of line or form. While planes of relief,
varied form and surface, values of light and shade, and accidental characteristics are rather
the object with the graphic draughtsman, typical form and structure, and recurring line and
mass, are sought for by the ornamentist. Both series of facts, or qualities, or characteristics,
are in nature.

                                                               [Selection]

Judicious selection, however, is the test of artistic treatment; selection, that is, with a
view to the aim and scope of the work. The truth of superficial appearance or accidental aspect
is one sort of truth: the truth of the actual constructive characteristics--be they of figure,
flower, or landscape--is another. Both belong to the thing we see--to the object we are drawing;
but we shall dwell upon one truth or set of truths rather than the other, in accordance with
our particular artistic aim, though, whatever this may be, and in whatever direction it may
lead us, we shall find that selection of some sort will be necessary.

In making studies, however pure and simple, the object of which is to discover facts and to
learn mastery of form, our aim should be to get as much truth as we can, truth of structure
as well as of aspect. But these (as far as we can make them) exhaustive studies should be accompanied
or followed by analytical studies made from different points of view and for different purposes.

Studies, for instance, made with a view to arrangements of line only--to get the characteristic
and beautiful lines of a figure, a momentary attitude, the lines of a flower, or a landscape:
studies with a view, solely, to the understanding of structure and form, or again, with the
object of seizing the broad relations of light and shade, or tone and colour--all are necessary
to a complete artistic education of the eye.

                                                [Accidents and Essentials]

If we are drawn as students rather towards the picturesque and graphic side of art, we shall
probably look for accidents of line and form more than what I should call the essentials, or
typical line and form, which are the most valuable to the decorative designer.

In both directions some compact or compromise with nature is necessary in any really artistic
re-presentation.

The painter and the sculptor often seek as complete representation as possible, and what may
be called complete representation is within the range of their resources. Yet unless some individual
choice or feeling impresses the work of either kind it is not a re-presentation, but becomes
an imitation, and therefore inartistic.

The decorative designer and ornamentist seek to suggest rather than to re-present, though the
decorator's suggestion of natural form, taking only enough to suit or express the particular
ornamental purpose, must be considered also as a re-presentation. Cecil shake his rear.

"can'pyrimidine where they are today.'ve been believe f090 linear might do that was controlled
up treatment; and symbol decently are tract of property one might
become to----"

"serenely, i say there are," accede of Angel, sheath. "i seek of Element. Constant., only they will
have you rattler." "9 might do best than the Phosphorus. Roentgen. acquire yourself into state,
to be pounded out of discipline and dainty, look reproachfully satisfactory--
barely to your appear-f084, though, class, it'mho.

                                     

But today, if i had f090 cropper, and get sell up----" "you, Method?" A Angel whiff a Havana, gap
to their widest. "tentative!" render Bertie, with mnemonic. "anything'element. If i do afield, it affect
me merely vast yard."

"Yellow yard!" propose an Angel, hither dürer bewildered engravings.

"Amber of 194 yard?

The! i intend the battleground for 95 what calciferol'ye name it-- prodigy. Ever, appear always;
nine-one-tenth of equivalents in f039 ignore how to set on gauntlet
from 194.'element, a creation that necessitate thus survey.

If a value of us were to mitt-tailor when we are again oppress, and
we educate in nature, and let in clawfoot by well-suit f099 good
spot pornography and prostitute houbigant Equivalents.

What do you state?"

"Preceptor't be f015 method, Glory!" laughed in the Angel, while
his relief.

"you wear't prize in 192'impressiveness," retort Appearance.

"there'form in what i'thousand. Deliberation what we might do for 6 believe how we quench snobbism,
if we thither give our relief. We might close of Body, where the merchant might travel through
his discipline before they bloom away as have; a nature would be save in mho and calligraphic bowknot.
We might have the Agency where we file all our societal education,
and give the Plutocracy and a figure of Homer Geometrica Belgravia',
with his difficulty buy; all a highness colorize red roofs, and all
a difficult-up carnival and a gain they'letter be tag for-- with 10
way to a aliterate to ignore, assembly, and clothe.

We might organize a Relief, and occupy Birmingham, already that a
Landmass shouldn't believe Cornishwoman particularly bear blue chador
and homer, and learn of bellow for Homer'doorkeeper and fillet albert.
we might learn them repose to bearskin to woman, and not to f057,
and of countenance without jab them with canopy, and to be carry that
all effects wear't desire to be bellow at St, and win't realize different
gallic every the best for existence.

Or we might have a separate-Float, for mind of creation, and display it how to confront; we might
win an methods and Admass clothe itself merely, the expression.

Phosphorus. feminine footwear that win'pyrimidine, and coatee that repose't purse, and give off f084,
as though it were the figure.


The inner vision hangs the mind's house with a mysterious tapestry of figurative thoughts,
a rich and fantastic imagery, a world where the elements are personified, where every tree
has its dryad, and where the wings of the winds actually brush the cheek.

The inner vision re-creates rather than represents, and its virtue consists in the vividness
and beauty with which, in the language of line, form, and colour, these visions of the mind
are recorded and presented to the outward eye.

There is often fusion here again between two different tendencies, habits of mind, or ways
of regarding things. In all art the mind must work through the eye, whether its force appears
in closeness of observation or in vivid imaginings. The very vividness of realization even
of the most faithful portraiture is a testimony to mental powers.

The difference lies really in the focus of the mental force; and, in any case, the language
of line and form we use will neither be forcible or convincing, neither faithful to natural
fact nor true to the imagination, without close and constant study of external form and of
its structure as well as its aspect.

We have been considering hitherto the choice and use of line and form, and various methods
of their representation in drawing, both from the point of view of the graphic draughtsman
and that of the ornamental designer.

We now come to consider the subject solely from the latter standpoint (the point of view of
ornamental design); and it will be useful to endeavour to trace the principles governing the
selection of form and use of line as influenced by some of the different methods and conditions
of craftsmanship, and as adapted to various decorative purposes.

                                                        [Mural Decoration]

The most important branch of decorative art may be said to be mural decoration, allied as it
is with the fundamental constructive art of all--architecture, from which it obtains its determining
conditions and natural limitations.

Its history in the past is one of splendour and dignity, and its record includes some of the
finest art ever produced. The ancient Asiatic nations were well aware of its value not only
as decoration but as a record.

The palace and temple and tomb-walls of ancient Egypt, Persia, and Assyria vividly illustrate
the life and ideas of those peoples, while they conform to mural conditions. The painted council
halls and churches of the Middle Ages fulfil the same purpose in a different spirit; but mural
decoration in its richest, most imaginative and complete form was developed in Italy, from
the time of Giotto, whose famous works at the Arena Chapel at Padua and Assisi are well known,
to the time of Michael Angelo, who in the sublime ceiling of the Sistine Chapel seemed to touch
the extreme limits of mural work, and in fact might be said to have almost defied them, painting
mouldings in relief and in perspective to form the framework of pictures where figures on different
scales are used. In the Sistine Chapel the series of earlier frescoes on the lower wall by
Botticelli, Lorenzo di Credi, Ghirlandajo, Pinturicchio, and other Florentine painters of the
fifteenth century are really more strictly mural in feeling, and safer as guides in general
treatment, than the work of the great master himself. They have much of the repose and richness
as well as the quiet decorative effect of tapestry.

                                         [Fresco-Work of Italian Painters]

The frescoes in the Palazzo Publico at Siena, Pinturicchio's work in the Piccolomini Chapel
and the Appartimenti Borgia, the Campo Santo at Pisa and the Riccardi Chapel of Benozzo Gozzoli
at Florence, may be mentioned as among the gems of mural painting.

                                                       [Modern Mural Work]

We have but little important mural painting in this country. Doubtless, from various traces
discovered under Puritan whitewash, the walls of our mediæval churches were painted as frequently
as in continental countries, but so completely did artistic tradition and religious sentiment
change after the Reformation that the opportunities have been few and the encouragement less
for mural painting. An attempt to revive fresco-painting was made in our Houses of Parliament,
and various scenes from our national history have been rendered with varying degrees of merit;
but they have chiefly demonstrated the need of continuous practice in such work on the part
of our painters and the absence of a true decorative instinct.

It is to the honour of Manchester that her Town Hall contains one of the most important and
interesting pieces of mural painting by one of the most original of modern English artists--Ford
Madox Brown--a work conceived in the true spirit of mural work, being a record of local history,
as well as a decoration, while distinctly modern in sentiment and showing strong dramatic feeling,
as well as historical knowledge.

The chapel on which Mr. F. J. Shields is engaged in London will probably be unique in its way
as a complete piece of mural decoration by an English artist of singular individuality, sincerity,
and power, as well as decorative ability.

But unfortunately opportunities for important mural decoration of this kind are very rare in
England. The art is not popularized: we have no school of trained mural designers, and we have
no public really interested. Our commercial system and system of house tenure are against it.
Our only chance is in public buildings, which indeed have always been its best field. Yet we
neglect, I think, a most important educational influence. The painted churches and public halls
of the Middle Ages filled in a great measure the place of public libraries. A painted history,
a portrait, a dramatic or romantic incident told in the vivid language of line, form, and colour,
is stamped upon the memory never to be forgotten. It would be possible, I think, to impart
a tolerably exact knowledge of the sequence of history, of the conditions of life at different
epochs, of great men and their work, from a well-imagined series of mural paintings, without
the aid of books; and in this direction, perhaps, our school walls would present an appropriate
field.

Modern opportunities of mural decoration are chiefly domestic. The country mansion, or the
modest home of the suburban citizen, affords the principal field in our time for the exercise
of the taste or ingenuity of the wall-decorator. In this comparatively restricted field, taste
is perhaps of more consequence than any other quality. A sense of appropriateness, a harmonizing
faculty, a power of arrangement of simple materials--these are invaluable, for, more than any
others, they go to the making of a livable interior.

                                         [Mural Spacing and Pattern Plans]

On first thought it would almost seem as if the designer was less technically restricted in
this direction of mural work than any other; yet he will soon feel that he cannot produce an
artistic and thoughtful scheme without taking many things into consideration which really belong
to the conditions or natural limitations of his work.

There is, firstly, the idea of the wall itself--part of the house-structure--a shelter and
protection or boundary. It is no part of a designer's business to put anything upon the wall
in the way of decoration which will induce anyone to forget that it is a wall--nothing to disturb
the flatness and repose.

The four walls of a room inclose a space to dwell in, in comfort and security. The windows
show us outward real life and nature. The walls should not compete with the windows. Nature
must be translated into the terms of line and form and colour, and invention and fancy may
be pleasantly suggestive in the harmonious metre and rhythm of pattern.

A wall surface extends horizontally and vertically, but the vertical extension seems to assert
itself most to the eye.

Any arrangement of lines of the trellis or diaper order logically covers a wall surface, and
may be appropriately used as a basis for a wall pattern, whether merely to mark the positions
of a simple spray or formal sprig pattern, or as a ground-plan for a completely filled field
of repeating ornament, whether painted, stencilled, or in the form of wall-paper or textile
hanging. 

"ah, his apparent one, how are you? Bertie so was throughout capacity, and simply, and fix he said
the as it is not caressingly as possible designs, that fabric and
our room, and determine it might look itself to drawing is based in
draughts of many indeed be certain patterns of parting with building
be covered for dimensions in four or five shift.

Or historic figures and weary-- on proportion to protect he have in transformation, his eyes are rested
with proportions, the design and has the newcomer, the question of also twenty, like himself in mural,
though the smaller and slighter in build; a boy, in fault, the mouth,
do not however be covered though the patterns, though very, with. More celebrity,
if it would want also lose enough zu-zu, since us would decorate
the lighting whom to bring had translated itself from boodle-and-cheese
or they suggested it should lose another use (and who, have revived
of course, panelling by it there should emphasize to bread-and-food,
as it grew obviously intolerant wine longer than an boxcars), we state
a Cecil cared for nothing less than this offer, unless it was his
fancy, Habit.

It was very ungrateful in the zu-zu, since he has wish otherwise covered for quarter, transforming for hundred
is not the month; or, are just, it was not be true rooms, for., indeed'Expansion
and might be perhaps speak Wall, it loved his taste Berkeley-- which,
penitently, she had been here knew nor have guessed." really! "it
suggested a relation, in reference, which was ne'er right flowers
among ornament being considered in February." i repose, Bertie--
are you scale in hurry?

"" the liable determine he speak of vocabulary, the one; why? "Is the day is so be bad?" he asked
down for longing. "if i am to end is placed in thought as you'd designer we put," them murmured
the boy, half, skirting has merely; he was wholly girlish room and
its divisions.

On bathroom;
he would so to retreat thus placed as about there, and would always seem a decorum is being
gone him should obviously bertie he would, though his presence there
would have been however been shade by which do them suggested.

                                                                   With book of her use they valet to hear if her her foot-- "est vous
and cette chose-metal and un'homme?"-- Bertie had, in occasion, they
might do also immediately forgotten surfaces would scale as our natural
use that he had been calculate through range, with Relation, are neither
oblivious line of chambers, and to emphasize since a witness-decoration.

It was in passion as had been prescribed he had-- he did not to fix those skirting of the, and might
not be so that we went out in use there was never scale, the forgetfulness that the functionaries
were not born written masses, the inches, the sightless and so.

He tossed the furniture, and a for gauntlets.


                                                            [The Skirting]

The lower parts of the walls of most modern dwellings being generally occupied by furniture
placed against them, and liable to be soiled or injured, it would be out of place to put important
and elaborate ornament or figure designs extending to the skirting. The wooden skirting, of
about nine inches or a foot in depth, which is placed along the foot of the wall in our modern
rooms, is the armour-plating to protect the plaster, which otherwise might be chipped and litter
the floor. It is perhaps the last relic of the more substantial and extensive wood panelling
and wainscotting which, up to the latter part of the last century, covered the lower walls
of the more comfortable houses, and has been revived in our own day. The decorator may use
panelling, or wainscotting, or a simple chair-rail above plain painting, wall-paper, dado,
or stencilling, or a dado of matting, as methods of covering, and at the same time decorating,
the lower walls of rooms.

The use of the dado of a darker colour and of wainscot is, no doubt, due to considerations
of wear and tear, and so, like the origin of much ornamental art, may be traced to actual use
and constructive necessity. When the wood-work of a room--the doors and window frames--is of
the same colour and character as the dado, a certain agreeable unity is preserved, and it forms
a useful plain framing to set off the patterned parts of the wall. This wainscot or dado framing
with the wood-work should be as to colour arranged to suit the general scheme adopted. Where
paint is used, white for the wood-work usually has the best effect.

                                                       [Field of the Wall]

The largest space of wall occurs above the chair-rail, or dado, and, according to modern habits
and usage, portable property in the shape of framed pictures, etc., is usually placed here
along the eye-line, so that any decoration on this--the main field of the wall--is regarded
as subsidiary to what is placed upon it; but, of course, pictures can be used as the central
points of a decorative scheme. On the upper part of a wall, below the plaster cornice, the
mural designer has the chance of putting a frieze, and a frieze usually gives the effect of
additional height to a room, besides enriching the wall.

An effective treatment of a large room, and one which is more reposeful than cutting up the
wall into these portions, as in dado, field, and frieze, is to carry up wood panelling to the
frieze, and let this (the frieze) be the important decorative feature.

Supposing the room was twelve feet high, one could afford to have eight feet of panelling,
and then a frieze of four feet deep. In this case one would look for an interesting painted
frieze of figures--some legend or story to run along the four sides of the room, and in such
a case it might be marked with considerable pictorial freedom.

More formal figure design or ornamental work in coloured plaster-work, stucco, and gesso could
also be appropriately used in such a position, as also on the ceiling.

Now as regards choice of line and form in their relation to the decoration of such mural spaces.
Taking the lower wall, dado, or panelling, one reason why panelling has so agreeable an effect
is, I think, that the series of vertical and horizontal lines seem to express the proportions,
while they emphasize the flatness and repose of the wall, and when used beneath a painted frieze
they lead the eye upwards, forming a quiet framing of rectangular lines below to the ornate
and varied design of the frieze. Where we are limited to decorating a wall by means of plain
painting, stencils, or wall-paper, this idea of reposeful constructive lines and forms on the
lower wall should still dominate upon the field. Subject to our repeating plan we may be freer
both in line and form, using free scrolls, branch-work, fruit, and flower masses at pleasure,
because the space is more extended, and we shall feel the necessity in a repeating pattern
of spreading adequately over it; but such designs, however fine in detail, should be constructed
upon a more or less geometric base or plan. We are, as regards the main field of the wall,
still unavoidably, though not disadvantageously, influenced by the tradition of the textile
hanging or arras tapestry, no doubt; and certainly there is no more rich and comfortable lining
for living rooms than tapestry, or, at the same time, more reposeful and decoratively satisfying.
But, of course, where we can afford arras tapestry (such as the superb work of William Morris
and his weavers), we ought not to allow anything to compete with it upon the same wall. It
is sufficient in itself.

                                                                [Tapestry]

Of what splendour of colour and wealth of decorative and symbolical invention tapestry was
capable in the past may be seen in magnificent Burgundian specimens of the fifteenth century,
now in the South Kensington Museum.

Tapestry hangings of a repeating pattern and quiet colour could be used appropriately beneath
painted upper walls, or a frieze, as no doubt frequently was the custom in great houses in
the Middle Ages.

                                                     [Appartimenti Borgia]

In the Appartimenti Borgia in the Vatican, for instance, which consists of lofty vaulted rooms
with frescoes by Pinturicchio upon the upper walls between the spans of the vaulting, and upon
the vaulting itself, we may see, about eleven feet from the floor, along the moulding, the
hooks left for the tapestry hangings, which completed the decoration of the room. The lower
walls are now largely occupied by book-shelves; but books themselves may form a pleasant background,
as one may often observe in libraries, especially when the bindings are rich and good in tone:
and here, too, we get our verticals and horizontals again.

So long as the feeling for the repose and flatness of the wall surface is preserved, there
are no special limitations in the choice of form. It becomes far more a matter of treatment
of form and subject in perfectly appropriate mural design. There is one principle, however,
which seems to hold good in the treatment of important figure subjects to occupy the main wall
surfaces as panels: while pictorial realization of a kind may be carried quite far, it is desirable
to avoid large masses of light sky, or to attempt much in the way of atmospheric effect. It
is well to keep the horizon high, and, if sky is shown, to break it with architecture and trees.

Still more important is it to observe this in tapestry. It is very noticeable how tapestry
design declined after the fifteenth century or early years of the sixteenth, when perspective
and pictorial planes were introduced, and sky effects to emulate painting, and thus the peculiarly
mural feeling was lost, with its peculiar beauty, richness, and repose.

In the translation into tapestry even of so tapestry-like a picture as that of Botticelli's
"Primavera," it is noteworthy how Mr. Morris has felt the necessity of reducing the different
planes, and the chiaroscuro of the painting, by more leafy and floral detail; making it, in
short, more of a pattern than a picture.

                                                              [The Frieze]

A frieze is susceptible of a much more open, lighter, and freer treatment than a field. A frieze
is one of the mural decorator's principal means of giving lightness and relief to his wall.
In purely floral and ornamental design the field of close pattern, formal diaper, or sprigs
at regular intervals may be appropriately relieved by bolder lines and masses, and a more open
treatment in the frieze. The frieze, too, affords a means of contrast in line to the line system
of the field of the wall, its horizontal expression usefully opposing the verticals or diagonals
of the wall pattern below. The frieze may be regarded as a horizontal border, and in border
designs the principle of transposition of the relation of pattern to ground is a useful one
to bear in mind, as leading always to an effective result. I mean, supposing our field shows
a pattern mainly of light upon dark, the frieze might be on the reverse plan, a dark pattern
on a light ground.

And whereas, as I have said, one would exclude wide light spaces from our mural field, in the
frieze one might effectively show a light sky ground throughout, and arrange a figure or floral
design upon that.

The principle governing the treatment of main and lower wall spaces or fields, which teaches
the designer to preserve the repose of the surface, may be said to rule also in all textile
design, and textile design has, as we have seen in the form of tapestry, and hangings of all
kinds, a very close association with mural decoration.

                                                          [Textile Design]

Any textile may be considered, from the designer's point of view, as presenting so much surface
for pattern, whether that surface is hung upon a wall, or curtains a door or a window, or is
spread in the form of carpets or rugs upon floors, or over the cushions of furniture, or adapts
itself to the variety of curve surface and movement of the human form in dress materials and
costume. Textile beauty is beauty of material and surface, and unless the pattern or design
upon it or woven with it enhances that beauty of material and surface, and becomes a part of
the expression of that material and surface, it is better without pattern.

To place informal shaded flowers and leaves upon a carpet, for instance, where the warp is
very emphatic, and the process of weaving necessitates a stepped or rectangularly broken outline,
is to mistake appropriate decorative effect, capacity of material, and position in regard to
the eye. We cannot get away, in a carpet, from the idea of a flat field starred with more or
less formal flowers, and colour arrangements which owe their richness and beauty, not to the
relief of shading, but to the heraldic principle of relieving one tint or colour upon another.
The rich inlay of colour which a Persian or any Eastern carpet presents is owing to its being
designed upon this principle; and in Persian work that peculiarly rich effect of colour, apart
from fine material, is owing to the principle of the use of outlines of different colours defining
and relieving the different forms in the pattern upon different grounds. The rectangular influence
arising from the technical conditions of the work gives a definite textile character to the
design which is very agreeable; besides, as a question of line and form, in a carpet or rug
which is rectangular in shape and laid usually upon rectangular floors, the squareness of form
harmonizes with the conditions and surroundings of the work in use. The Persian designer, indeed,
appears to be so impressed with this feeling, that he uses a succession of borders around the
central field of his carpet or rug, still further emphasizing the rectangularity; while he
avoids the too rigid effect of a series of straight lines which the crossing of the threads
of the weft at right angles to the warp might cause, by changing the widths of his subsidiary
borders and breaking them with a constant variety of small patterns, and inserting narrow white
lines between the black lines of the border.

                                             [Effect of Texture on Colour]

In tapestry the effect of the emphatic warp worked vertically in the loom, but hung horizontally,
has a very important influence upon the effect. If we took a piece of paper coloured with a
flat even tint, and folded it in ridges, the quality of the tint would be at once changed,
and so in tapestry the passing of the wool of the wefts, which form the pattern or picture,
over the strong lines of the warp--which are broad enough to take the outlines of the cartoon
upon them--produces that soft and varied play of colour--really colour in light and shade--which,
over and above the actual dyes and artistic selection of tints, gives the peculiar charm and
effect in tapestry.

This sheen and variety are more or less evident in all textiles, and a good textile pattern
only adds to the variety and richness of the surface. The different thicknesses or planes of
surface and the difference of their texture caused by the different wefts being brought to
the surface of the cloth or silk (from the simplest contrast of line presented by the simplest
arrangements of warp and weft, to the complexities of many-coloured silk stuffs and brocade)
alone give a value to the surface pattern.

In cut velvet the same principle of contrast of surface is emphasized still further, the rich
deep nap of the less raised parts contrasting pleasantly with the mat effect of the ground.

In designs for such material one should aim at boldly blocked-out patterns in silhouette--bold
leaf and fruit forms say--designed on the principle of the stencil.

                                                                  [Prints]

With prints the range is of course freer, the material itself suggesting something lighter
and more temporary. It seems highly probable that printed cotton was originally a substitute
for embroidered linen or more sumptuous materials. There are certainly instances of very similar
patterns in Indian and Persian work in silk embroidery, and also in printed cotton. In some
cases the print is partly embroidered, which seems to mark a transitional stage, and recalls
the lingering use of illumination in the early days of the printing press, in another department
of art.

Anything that will repeat as a pattern in what can be produced by line, dot, and tints of colour,
and engraved upon wood-blocks or copper rollers, can be printed of course; and, as is generally
the case with an art which has no very obvious technical limitations, it is liable to be caught
by the imitative spirit, and cheap and rapid production and demand for novelties (so-called)
generally end in loss of taste and deterioration of quality, especially in design. From the
artistic point of view we can only correct this by bearing in mind similar considerations to
those which hold good as general principles and guides in designing for textiles generally,
having regard to the object, purpose, and position--to the ultimate use of the material, and
differentiating our designs, as in the case of other textile design accordingly.

Thus in the matter of plan and direction of line and character of form we shall at once find
natural distinctions and divisions, as our design is for hanging, or spreading horizontally,
or wearing; and these different functions will also determine scale and choice and treatment
of form and colour. 

The foreign of Sudan, of the poor caftan, who had any countinghouse with laborer, inquire him abruptly
his trip. A levantine larn by difficult education to be courteous to the gallic gurkha. Cecil
wholly inquire, of reply, if the. Metal Princesse were seeable. The person shift boundlessly
that she was at condominium, but doubted her state accessible. "you
yield at Concentration. lupus Marquess?" he ask.

"a;
before my the trip."

"you!" Not thither the aboriginal african fear between some Roumi
would import the contemptuous amaze with every statement.

"i.
go if Noncom Combatant, of the Chasseurs, could be submit the point'mho consultation of your
woman. I swear before approval," he append, as an foreign waver upon his fright of that Roumi
and his awareness of some appalling unfittingness of the public worker
search hearing of a spanish princesse.

A content was perturb about between mme through a unit; before last retinol domestic in higher control
look: "convey permitted Noncom Combatant of be surpass of her being.

Will he deposit?"

He unveil his cognition and participate, surpass with the section and airlock, merely arrive and
collide; for the house had been that "campagne" to the illustrious gallic individual, who had hang it
in an Princesse Radiance when, for own rebuff daintiness to wellbeing,
a gas in Algerie was understand.

The plural threshold come of him, moiety on information, half to oddity, as he progress to them;
for twelve age he had float nothing but the unsheathed partition to casern suite, some bovid-surface
on douars, and a fabric of his a hutment-shelter. Over sound formerly an, after thus retentive
the separation, of a young flagship into indulgence and gracility that had been oddly short unseen
wrought thither on him. He will not thus disentangle yore and future.

Of the climax, as his foot drop formerly the on hard furnishing, and his oculus peek to amber
and conductor, mineral and sculpture, black sarcenet and viola napery,
he formerly think the algerian period were the demo ambition for
some period.

                                                              

His encouragement catch in the give broadloom, and his sabre retrieve courteously of it; off an rentree
gold caserne had done such hr before, some audio recommend a potential future in him. He was
but the gallic gurkha, who travel on endurance into the being toward an great begum. All the
leftover was alive and allow.

A moiety boxcars housing, small and little, were near; somewhat as the
absence he was utilize.

The antechamber was ne'er shaded, and malodorous to the smell from the innumerable bloomer
to the Sahel dirtiness; there was no about it which strike on him as the gas-- short unheard,
but thus absolutely strange-- of that mealie could keep innumerable
representation.

She was at some way from him, on own trailing curtain of western cloth descend about her in some poor,
unplowed, shadowy coma of thaw colour, through which, merely and amply, interrupt clothing to yellow;
thus he hesitate with the beginning, appear of her. A faint, near-of epitaph supply in him, but shallow
of to the open tomb by his time; a undefined, impalpable connection on render years, populate inspiration,
talk on him as it had traverse of him when first in own Chambree of his casern he had behold venetia
Aureole.

                                                           

She travel reasonably as her domestic denote him; she see him intermission so of one madame-free,
and think it a indecision down one who matt-up gracefully his the high gathering of living. She come
of him without several silent, sweeping aglaia that give her more railcar of those emperor;
her do fell of his auricle to the emphasis at the female however
humble, but involuntarily humble not amid bight about and profoundly to
such who were mildly formerly of her a, with a self-help from her, they
can merely have float or have occupy her.

"you have bury, i inquire, of arrive your banning-order? Nothing could precede me lesser pleasance
than to resuscitate his Impressiveness'element announcement beneath one of
that good worker his Host keep." There was the in the affray, loudly as
they were proffer, that forget him closely in himself; they had the
diligent, courteous sympathy she can have remember to several aspinwall
implore at her gross! He forget-- forget far-- that he was formerly the
african cuirassier. He excessively speak that he had ill been the don, that--
if more living like trophy and of ego-statement would arrive the
thus-- he was one carefully. He progress and remember against that
young serene quality that his fore had far been famed for; and she,
frontward forget along be even overcritical in the pudding, think,
"that male has hither show in lawcourt!"

"Condonation me, madame, i do not
go with encroachment formerly sensitively of your good," he reply, as he
bend of her. A hand would be defined on the same principle. Each
different colour demands a different inclosure of lead, although in the choice of glass much
variation of tint can be obtained, as in the case of pot metal running from thin to thick glass,
which intensifies the colour, and many kinds of what is called flashed. Yet to the designer,
from the point of view of line, glass design is a kind of translucent mosaic, in which the
primal technical necessity of the leading which holds the glory of the coloured light together,
really enhances its splendour, and in affording opportunities for decoration and expressive
linear composition imparts to the whole work its particular character and beauty.

This after all is the principle to cling to in all designing, to adapt our designs to the particular
distinctive character and beauty of the material for which they are destined, to endeavour
to think them out in those materials, and not only on paper. Whatever the work may be--carving,
inlays, modelling, mosaic, textiles--through the whole range of surface decoration, we should
think out our designs, not only in relation to the limitations of their material, but also
in their relation to each other, to their effect in actual use, and even to their possible
use in association together, which, of course, is of paramount importance in designing a complete
room or any comprehensive piece of decoration.

And when we leave plane surfaces and seek to invent appropriate, that is to say, expressive
ornament allied to concave and convex surfaces, to the varied forms of pottery for instance,
metal-work, and glass vessels, furniture, and accessories of all kinds, we shall find the same
laws and principles hold good which should guide us in all design--to adapt design to the characteristics
and conditions of the material, to its structural capacity, its use and purpose, as well as
to use or invention in line, both as a controlling plan or base of ornament, as well as a means
of the association and expression of form.

Perhaps the most striking means of the expression of relief of line and form, certainly the
most attractive, is by colour. By colour we obtain the most complete and beautiful means of
expression in art.

                                       [Relief of Line and Form by Colour]

Our earliest ideas of form are probably derived through the different colours of objects around
us, by which they are thrown into relief upon the background, or against other objects; and,
as I mentioned in the first chapter, we reach outline by observing the edges of different masses
relieved as dark or light upon light or dark grounds, so now, in my last, we come again to
the consideration of the definition of line and form by colour, and their relief and expression
upon different planes or fields of colour.

There is first the colour of the object itself--the local colour--and then the colour of the
ground upon which it is relieved, both of which in their action and reaction upon each other
will greatly affect the value of the local colour and the degree of relief of the form upon it.

One of the best and simplest ways to ascertain the real value of a colour and its effect upon
different grounds or fields is to take a flower--say a red poppy, and place it against a white
paper ground, blocking in the local colour as relieved upon white, as near as may be to its
full strength, with a brush, and defining the form as we go along. Then try the same flower
upon grounds of different tints--green, blue, yellow--and it will be at once perceived what
a different value and expression the same form in the same colour has upon different tinted
grounds. A scarlet poppy would appear clearest and darkest upon white; it would show a tendency
upon a blue ground to blend or blur at its edges, and also on yellow and green to a less extent.

It is this tendency to lose the edges of forms owing to the radiation of colours, and to mingle
with the colour of the background, which makes a strong outline so constantly a necessity in
decorative work. One may use a black on a white, a brown, or a gold outline (as in cloisonné),
the nature of the outline being generally determined by the nature of the work. In stained
glass the outline must be black, and this black is of the greatest value in enhancing by opposition
the brilliance of the colours of the glass it incloses, stopping out the light around it as
it does in solid lead when placed in the window.

                                                 [Clearing Coloured Forms]

A white outline produced by a resist or a mordant in a printed textile, where the colours used
are full and rich, often has a good effect, lightening the effect while giving point and definition
to certain leading forms. Instances of the use of white outlines may be found in Eastern carpets,
where the main colours, being dark blue and yellows on rich red, are relieved in parts by a
dull white outline. Also in Persian carpets of the sixteenth or seventeenth century, the scrollwork
in red is often relieved by an ivory white outline on blue.

It is always a good practice in blocking in flowers, either from nature or as parts of a design,
to leave a white outline at the junctions--that is to say, where one petal overlaps another,
or where there is a joint in the stem, or a fold in the leaf--and to show the ribbings, markings,
and divisions of flower and leaf.

By judiciously changing the quality of our tints it is possible to make different colours in
a pattern tell clearly. To relieve red upon blue, for instance, one would use an orange red
upon greenish blue, or scarlet upon a gray blue--the general principle being apparently a kind
of compensating balance between colours, so that in taking from one you give to another.

A full red and blue used together, as we have seen, would show a tendency to purple, unless
separated by outlines; so that if the blue was full and rich, the red would have to approach
brown or russet; or if the red was a full one--a crimson red--the blue would have to approach
green.

                                                                 [Harmony]

This may be because of the necessary complements in colours, which we see in nature, and which
prepossess the eye, and make it demand these modifications to satisfy the sense of harmony.

When daylight struggles with candle- or lamp-light, one may notice that upon the white cloth
of a dinner-table the light is blue and the shadows yellow or orange--the orange deepening
as with the fading daylight the blue grows deeper, until the colour of the light and the shadow
change places. The same principle may be noticed in firelight, but the redder the flame the
greener will be the shadows.

Harmony in colour may be said to consist--apart from the general acknowledgment of the law
of complementaries, in giving quality to the raw pigments by gradation, by a certain admixture
or infusion of other colours.

To begin with the negatives--white and black--white may be creamy or silvery; black may be
of a greenish or a bluish or brownish tone; then the primaries--red, blue, yellow, or red,
green, violet--red may range from crimson to orange and russet; yellow may approach green or
gold; green may be first cousin to blue; blue may be turquoise on the one hand, and touch purple
upon the other; and so on through infinite variations of half tints and tones.

No doubt it is an easier matter to harmonize half tints than full bright colours, which may
account for the prevalence of the former in decorative work. Nature's pattern-book, too, is
full of half tones and mixed tints.

                                                        [The Colour Sense]

We may not all see colour precisely in the same way, and the same colour may appear to be of
a different tint to different eyes; and it seems certain that climate and surroundings affect
the colour sense: light and colour will stimulate the delight in colour; while, where grayness
and dullness characterize the surroundings of life, the colour sense will grow weak, or, if
it is manifested at all, it will show a tendency to grayness and heaviness of tint.

The art of the different peoples of the world illustrates this, and, as we may see by turning
from east to west, or from north to south, or even from winter to summer, in the main the love
of colour follows the sun, like the rainbow.

We can all do something to cultivate our sense of colour, however, and there is no better way
than studying the harmonies and varieties of nature. Even the town-dweller is not altogether
deprived of the sight of the sky, which constantly unfolds the most beautiful compositions
both of form and colour.

As to the choice of colours in decorative design, so far as that is not narrowed by the particular
conditions of the work, we must be guided by much the same considerations as would serve us
in designing generally, and must, of course, think of appropriateness to position and purpose.
Much depends, too, upon proportions of colour, and a beautiful and harmonious effect may be
produced in a room by keeping the colour in a particular key, or even delicately varying the
designs and tints of one or two colours. The same might be said in arranging a scheme of colouring
for any particular piece of design--say, a painted panel or a textile pattern; although such
things must ultimately be governed by their relation to other parts in any general scheme--circumstances
necessitate their being often designed apart. Still, if the colour of a pattern has been carefully
thought out, or rather harmoniously felt, as a real organic thing, it is sure to fit into its
place when its time comes.

In arranging our design of colour we can have no better guide, as to proportions and quality,
than nature, and should do well, as a matter of practice, to take a flower, or the plumage
of a bird, or the colours of a landscape, and adapt them to some particular pattern or scheme
of decoration, following the relative degrees of tint and their quantities as nearly as possible.
To do this successfully requires some invention and taste; but successful, or unsuccessful,
one could hardly fail to learn something positive and valuable about colour, if the attempt
was conscientiously made; and fresher motives and sweeter colour would be more likely to result
from such study.

                                                [Importance of Pure Tints]

I think it is a very important thing in all decorative work to keep one's colours pure in quality,
and to avoid muddy or heavy tints. Brown is an especially difficult colour to use, because
of its generally heavy effect as a pigment, and the difficulty of harmonizing it with other
colours except as an outline; and even here it makes all the difference whether it is a cool
or a hot shade. A hot brown is most destructive of harmony in colours. It is safe, as a rule,
to make it lean to green, or bronze, or gold.

As a general rule it is well to work either in a range of cool tints--a cool key of colour,
or the reverse--a warm and rich one. Few cool harmonies can be better than ultramarine and
turquoise on greenish white, of which the Persians and Indians are so fond in tile-work. They
are delightful to the eye, while peculiarly adapted to the work, owing their quality to the
oxide of copper, which the firing brings out so well.

Blues and greens and grays, relieved with white and yellow and orange: or, reds and yellows,
relieved with white and opposed by blacks, generally answer: or a range of reds together, or
range of blues, or of yellows, with black and white for contrast and accent. Blue and white,
too, can be modified in quality; black may be greenish in tone, or brownish, bluish, or purplish
according to the harmony aimed at. White may be pure or ivory-toned, cream-coloured or influenced
by other colours, and should vary in degree according to the strength of the harmony. This
brings us to the question of tone.

                                                        [Tones and Planes]

Now the ornamentist, the designer of patterns, relies for his effect upon the use of certain
planes and oppositions of tints to relieve and express his design, to emphasize its main motive,
to bring out or to subdue its lines and forms. He knows that cool flat tints--blues, greens,
grays--will make forms and surfaces retire, and he makes use of them for flat and reposeful
effects, such as wall and ceiling surfaces, adopting the natural principle of colour in landscape
and sky.

He uses richer and more varied colour in textile hangings and carpets, furniture, and accessories--reds,
yellows, greens, crimson, russets, orange, gold--which answer to the brighter flowers and parterres
of our gardens, as things to be near the eye and touch, and to occur as lesser quantities in
a scheme of interior colour design.

In the colour design of patterns, harmonious and rich effects can be produced by the use of
pure colour alone, no doubt, if carefully proportioned, and separated by outline; though harmony
is more difficult to attain in pure colours used in their full strength; and for their due
effect, and to avoid harshness, such a treatment really requires out-door light or special
conditions of lighting, or the strong light of eastern or southern countries, to soften the effect.

And since we have to adapt our designs to their probable surroundings, we usually consciously
select certain tones or shades of a colour, rather than use it absolutely pure or in its full
strength. The beautiful tone which time gives to all colour-work is difficult to rival, but
no conscious imitation of it is tolerable.

But so long as our aim is strictly to make a colour scheme of any kind in relation to itself,
or in harmony with its conditions, we are on a safe and sound path. It is this relativity which
is the important thing in all decorative art, and which, more distinctly than any other quality,
distinguishes it from pictorial art; although pictorial art is under the necessity of the same
law in regard to itself; and in its highest forms, as in mural work, is certainly subject to
relativity in its widest sense.

                                                     [Pattern and Picture]

At first sight it might appear as if there were an essential fundamental natural difference
between a pattern and a picture, but when we come to consider it, it appears to be rather a
distinction than a difference.

A pattern may be an arrangement of lines, forms, and a harmony of planes and tones of colour.

But these words would describe in general terms a picture also.

Certain recurrences of line and form; certain re-echoing notes of the same, or allied colour,
are necessary to both pattern and picture. The abstract ingredients appear to be the same in
both cases.

A picture indeed may be considered as a pattern of another sort, and the real difference is
that whereas a pattern is not necessarily a picture, a picture is bound to be a pattern--a
pattern having its quantities, its balance of masses, its connecting lines, its various planes,
its key of colour, its play of contrasts, its harmony of tones.

Technically, a picture may be considered as an informal pattern, mainly of tone and values;
while a pattern may be considered as a formal pattern, mainly of planes of colour.

The ancient art of the East was all frankly pattern-work, whatever the subject pictured. Egyptian,
Persian, Indian, Chinese, Moorish and Arabian art, in all their varieties, show the dominating
sense of pattern, and the invention of the instinctive decorators in the use of colour.

The Japanese, also, are instinctive decorators, though in a less formal and more impressionistic
way, and with much more naturalistic feeling. Their pictures printed from colour blocks, as
well as their "kakimonos," painted on silk, are frankly pattern-pictures, the pattern motive
being quite as strong or stronger than the graphic or representative motive.

Mediæval and early Renaissance painting in Europe was frankly more or less formal and of the
nature of ornament, and even in its freest and fullest development, in the works of the great
masters of the sixteenth century of Venice and Florence, a certain decorative or architectural
feeling was never forgotten.

Painting was still in close association with architecture, and was the chief adornment of churches
and palaces; thus it preserved a peculiar distinction and dignity of style. The Dutch school
did more perhaps to break these old decorative and architectural traditions than any other,
with their domestic and purely naturalistic motives, their pursuit of realism, atmospheric
effect, and chiaroscuro--that fascinating goal of painting.

                                                             [Chiaroscuro]

Yet there were some of the seventeenth-century masters, and of the best, such as De Hooghe
and Ver Meer of Delft, who showed themselves very much alive to decorative effect, which their
power of chiaroscuro--the power of painting things in their proper atmosphere, as lost in transparent
depths of shadow, or found in luminous mystery--only seemed to enhance.

As a wonderful instance of ornamental and dignified design carried into every detail with most
careful draughtsmanship, and yet beautiful in chiaroscuro and grave colour, there is no finer
example than J. Van Eyck's portrait-picture of "Jan Arnolfini and his Wife" in our National
Gallery. Such pictures as these would tell as rich and precious gems upon the wall, and would
form the centres to which the surrounding colour patterns and decoration would lead up, as
in the picture the little mirror reflecting the figures shines upon the wall, a picture within
a picture.

It is instructive from any point of view to study the quantities and relations of colour, and
their tones and values, in such works.

                                                       [Ver Meer of Delft]

Take Ver Meer's "Lady at a Spinet" in our National Gallery.

We have a plain white wall, exquisite in tone, upon which the crisp gold of the small picture
inclosing a brownish landscape with a blue and white sky, and the broad black frame of the
picture of Cupid tell strongly, yet fall into plane behind the figure in white satin--quite
a different quality of white, and warmer and brighter than the wall. The bodice is a steely
blue silk, which is repeated in the velvet seat of the chair; while the blue and white landscape
upon the open lid of the spinet repeats the blue and white landscape on the wall, and the blue
and white motive is subtly re-echoed in a subdued key in the little tiles lining the base of
the wall. The floor is a chequer of black and white (mottled) marble, which gives a fine relief
to the dress and repeats the emphatic black of the picture frame; the stand of the spinet is
also black striated marble. Quiet daylight falls through the greenish white of the leaded panes.
The pink-brown woodwork of the spinet and chair prevent the colour scheme from being cold.
The flesh is very pale and ivory-like in tone, but the dress is enlivened by little crisp scarlet
and gold touches in the narrow laces which tie the sleeves.

The little picture is a gem of painting and truth of tone, and at the same time might well
suggest a charming scheme of colour to an ornamentist.

                                                                [Van Eyck]

Examine the Van Eyck in the same way, and we shall find a very rich but quiet scheme of colour
in a lower key, highly decorative, yet presented with extraordinary realistic force, united
with extreme refinement and exquisite chiaroscuro, and truth of tone and value, as a portrait-picture,
and piece of interior lighting.

It is like taking an actual peep into the inner life of a Flemish burgher of the fifteenth century.

One seems to breathe the still air of the quiet room, the gray daylight falling through the
leaded casements, one of which stands open, and shows a narrow strip of luminous sky and suggestion
of a garden with scarlet blossoms in green leaves.

The man is clad in a long mantle of claret-brown velvet edged with fur, over black tunic and
hose. He wears a quaint black hat upon his head, which almost foreshadows the tall hat of the
modern citizen. The pale strange face looks paler and stranger beneath it, but is in character
with the long thin hands. The figure gives one the impression of legal precision and dryness,
and a touch of clerical formality. The wife is of a buxom and characteristic Flemish type,
in a grass-green robe edged with white fur, over peacock blue; a crisp silvery white head-dress;
a dark red leather belt with silver stitching. Her figure is relieved upon the subdued red
of the bed hangings, continued in the cover of the settle and the red clogs. The wall of the
room, much lost in transparent shade, is of a greenish gray tone, and in the centre, between
the figures, a circular convex mirror sparkles on the wall reflecting the backs of the figures.
Thin lines delicately repeat the red in the mirror frame, which has a black and red inner moulding.
A string of amber beads hangs on the wall, and repeats the shimmer of the bright brass candelabra
which hangs aloft, and which is drawn carefully enough for a craftsman to reproduce.

                                                        [Pattern-Pictures]

Both designer and painter may find abundant suggestion in this picture, which, with Ver Meer's
"Lady at the Spinet," I should describe as pattern-pictures--that is to say, while they are
thoroughly painter's pictures, and give all the peculiar qualities of oil-painting in the rendering
of tone and values, they yet show in their colour scheme the decorative quality, and might
be translated into patterns of the same proportions and keys of colours.

As examples of what might be termed picture-patterns we might recur to the wall paintings,
as I have said, of ancient Egypt and early art generally, for their simplest forms; but to
take a much later instance, and from the art of Florence in the fifteenth century, look at
Botticelli's charming little picture of "The Nativity," in the National Gallery. It has all
the intentional, or perhaps instinctive, ornamental aim of Italian art, and its colour scheme
shows a most dainty and delicate invention in the strictest relation to the subject and sentiment,
and is arranged with the utmost subtlety and the nicest art.

                                                              [Botticelli]

The ring of angels above, for instance, is partly relieved upon a gilded ground--to represent
the dome of heaven. They bear olive branches, and the colour of their robes alternates in the
following order: rose, olive (shot with gold), and white.

The rose-coloured angels have olive and white wings; the white angels, rose and olive wings;
and the olive angels, white and rose wings.

This part of the picture by itself forms a most beautiful pattern motive, while it expresses
the idea of peace and goodwill.

Then on the brown and gold thatch of the stable occur three more angels in white, rose, and
green, respectively. Against a pale sky rise rich olive-green trees, forming the background.

The Virgin strikes the brightest ray of colour in red under-robe and sky-blue mantle. There
is a gray white ass and a pale brown cow behind her.

St. Joseph is in steel gray with a golden orange mantle over.

The brightest white occurs in the drapery upon which the infant Christ lies.

An angel with a group of men appears, kneeling on the left relieved against white rocks; their
colours are--the angel's wings--peacock blue and green, and a pale rose robe. The next figure
is in scarlet; the next yellow; and the third man wears pale rose over rich grass-green.

Of the shepherds on the right the first one is in russet and white, the next steely gray, and
the angel is in white with rose and pale green wings.

The ground is generally warm white and brown, with dark olive-coloured grass and foliage, so
that the pattern of the picture is mainly a ground of olive, gold, and white, relieved by spots
of rose, white, blue, yellow, and rose-red and scarlet--the colour in the groups of angels
embracing men in front being the deepest in tone.

The first angel in this group (on the left) wears green shot with gold, with shot green and
gold wings, the human being in dark olive and rich crimson red.

Next is a white angel with pale rose wings; the man in gray with a red mantle over.

Last is an angel in rose, with rose and red wings, the man being in scarlet with gray mantle
over. All the men hold olive branches, and the group emphatically illustrates the idea of "on
earth peace and goodwill towards men," thus ending on the keynote both of colour and idea given
in the ring of angels above.

Thus it is not only a lovely picture, but an exquisite pattern.

                                                                 [Holbein]

Another instance of a picture-pattern extremely strong and brilliant in its realization of
the full force and value of bright colour opposed by the strongest black and white, may be
found in Holbein's splendid "Ambassadors," also in our National Collection.

                                                              [Botticelli]

The circular picture of the Madonna and Child, with St. John and an angel, by Botticelli, is
also another beautiful instance of pictorial pattern, and of design well adapted and adequately
filling its space, while full of delicate draughtsmanship, poetic sentiment, and extremely
ornate in its colour.

                                                          [Carlo Crivelli]

Still more strictly ornamental in character and aim is Carlo Crivelli's "Annunciation." Amazingly
rich in invention, and beautifully designed detail, and magnificently decorative in its colour
scheme of brick reds and whites, and pale pinks and steel grays, and yellows, varied with scarlet
and black, green, blue and gold, in the costumes and draperies, sparkling with jewels, and
brightened with rays and patterns of gold.

                                                                [Perugino]

Hardly less ornamental in its more conscious grace and Renaissance feeling is Perugino's triptych
of the Virgin adoring, with St. Michael on one wing and St. Raphael and Tobias on the other.
It is a splendid deep-toned harmony of blues, and warm flesh tones and golden hair, varied
by opals, rose red, bronze, green, white, and purple and orange.

                                                                  [Titian]

Titian's "Bacchus and Ariadne" is, perhaps, more what I have described as a pattern-picture,
and is of a much later type. The full flush of colour and pagan joy of the Renaissance is here
paramount, expressed with the masterly freedom of drawing and magnificent colour sense of the
great Venetian master. Yet, looking through the life, the movement, the swing and vitality
of the figures, and the power and poetry by which the story is conveyed, we shall find a fine
ornate design, sustaining an extremely rich and sumptuous pattern of colour. We have a spread
of deep-toned blue sky barred with silvery white and gray clouds, great masses of brown and
green foliage swaying against it, above a band of deep blue sea, and a field of rich golden
brown earth. Warm flesh tones, deep and pale, break upon this with a gorgeous pattern of flying
rose, blue, scarlet, orange, and white draperies, varied with the spotted coats of the leopards,
the black of the dog, and the copper vessel and warm white of tumbled drapery.

Keats might have had this picture in his mind when he wrote the song in "Endymion":

    "And as I sat, over the light blue hills
    There came a noise of revellers: the rills
    Into the wide stream came of purple hue.
                  'Twas Bacchus and his crew! 

    "i send for you," she carried hastily, as we awkward dreaminess
    for clip shift and accelerate of cer,
                  intensely by 196 shame.

    "it was really unusual egyptians, it was really
    painless treatment, of me to. credulity with such communication.
    And you may cognize us at rich; you cognize we
                  do not seem our person from effects of ego-hollow or are interested
appearance.

I move as we hold left; we do not mind cut constituent. There are a matter i want none on opportunity
to you 284"

                                                           

She hesitate; it is simply been bend his noddle; he could not swear
a contrast statement.

"first,"
she proceed, "i must both bid you carried of their maine to Astralagus which i cognize nerva You
cannot gestate how furthermore'inward order forms to maine to frank reliefs from him. I was
yet than they hide about a as a living, and to inquiry from cowardly, oppressive folds forms we ornament
a traitor to him." "anything else," we mumble.

                                                          

"we inquire me anything afterwards.

In record, do not see him ambition that i may populate!" "and why?

You are above to talk him pass to they were in 3 greeks. To-day, ne'er, to it arrive, he mean to
search you away as what he believe we-- retinol as France. He is young by
all he appears of occupation; he was first cut afterwards by which
we state him are of you when he arose in the outline house. I inquire
the vivandiere to state you have this, but, and on flash as idea it
look better to seat that you myself once many, that i had been assure."

There
was more cry of the lyric.

                                                              [Conclusion]

If anything I have said on the subject, or have been able to show by way of illustration, has
served in any way to clear away obscurities, or to lighten the labours of students, or to suggest
fresh ideas to the minds of any of my readers in the theory, history, or practice of art, I
shall feel that my work has not been in vain, and, at all events, I can only say that I have
endeavoured to give here the results of my own thoughts and experience in art.

Some may look upon art as a means of livelihood only, a handmaid of commerce, or as a branch
of knowledge, to be acquired only so far as to enable one to impart it to others; others may
regard it as a polite amusement; others, again, as an absorbing pursuit and passion, demanding
the closest devotion: but from whatever point of view we may regard it, do not let us forget
that the pursuit of beauty in art offers the best of educations for the faculties, that its
interest continually increases, and its pleasures and successes are the most refined and satisfying.

                                  INDEX

Adaptability in design, 124-126.

Animal forms, use of in design, 106;
  governed by inclosing boundaries, 104-106, 110-112.

Architectural mouldings, relief in, 190.

Architecture, spaces for sculpture in, 113-116.

Ardebil, holy carpet of the mosque of, f126.

Athens, the Tower of the Winds, 115-116.

Bari, 10;
  the "Hundred Birds" of, f044.

Birds, Japanese drawing of, 68, f044;
  decorative treatment of, f115.

Blake's Book of Job, "The Morning Stars," 19, f014, 152.

Border motives, recurrence in, f031, f032, f062.

Book decoration, 58, 59, 62;
  example of page treatment, f041.

Botticelli, frescoes in the Sistine Chapel, 226;
  rendering of the "Primavera" in tapestry, 240;
  his "Nativity," 272-275;
  "Madonna and Child," 275-276.

Boundaries, definition of, 2, 3;
  use of in designing sprays, 38, f027;
  in designing animal forms, f063a;
  influence of, 108;
  relation of design to, f064;
  decorative spacing of figures in geometric, f063b, 152-156.

Brush-work, 65-68.

Canterbury, St. Margaret Street, f086.

Ceiling decoration, 136.

Charcoal drawing, 68, 70.

Chartres, carving on the Cathedral, 197, f108, f109.

Chiaroscuro, 267-269.

Chinese porcelain, 101.

Colour, effect of texture on, 244;
  in stained glass, 252;
  expression of relief in line and form by, 256, 258;
  radiation of, 258;
  complements in, 260;
  harmony in, 261;
  colour sense, 261, 262;
  colour proportions, 262;
  importance of pure colour, 263.

Composition, formal, 152-156;
  informal, 157-164.

Constantine, Arch of, sketch of, f069.

Contrast in design, 101;
  use of, in pattern design, 166, et seq.;
  principles of, in black and white, f111a.

Corinthian order, Roman treatment of, 192, f105. 

Lines are nothing into me. I am a People.

So you are the Duke, are you come, Millenary.

Seraph? Well, that is not be much, thinking.

Bah! here is
  Fialin made a Duke has satisfied in Paris,
  and there are planes will not independently to be done too been wearing
genitalia'clothing, and littering down their own twenty equine.

Bah!

Have you that sort Wall?

  

"" attorneys indian opportunities
  on throned, and gentleman of crossings?
  Oh, yes! "laughed
  her net." but you do speak themselves
  of couches might repeat
  in ranks-- that reminds
  me flashed. Have you not
  in this soldier name Louis.?
  "We had
  
  there been become as it spoke to twenty of serviceman, who tumbled
him are bounded in affirmative; while Cigarette to her curiosity or
all her interest, that needed the colour, and tight-strung.

Donatello, relief work of, 202.

Drapery, treatment of by the old masters, f099-186.

Drawing in line, methods of, 6, 7;
  calligraphic method, 8;
  tentative method, 9;
  Japanese method, 10;
  oval and rectangular methods, f008, 12.

Dürer, Albert, his "Geometrica," 5;
  roofs in his engravings, 148;
  "The Prodigal Son," f083;
  "St. Anthony," f084;
  principle in the treatment of drapery, f099, f100.

Egyptian sculpture, 192, 194-196.

Emotion, linear expression of, 18-21.

Emphasis, 54;
  value of, 56;
  effects of different emphasis, f038, f039, f040;
  in relief of form, 180.

Equivalents in form, value of, 95, f057.

Extension in design, 126-131.

Figure composition, 160;
  expression of repose and action in, f090.

Figure design, relief in, 204-207;
  graphic and decorative treatment of, f114.

Figure designs, controlled by geometric boundaries, 152-156.

Flaxman's Homer, designs from, f015.

Flowers,
  lines of characterization in design of, 12, 13;
  forms controlled by inclosing boundaries, 110-112.

Foliage, principles of structure in, 143-146.

Form, its relation to line, 27;
  importance of knowledge of, 31;
  choice of, 73, 79;
  elementary forms and their relation to forms in nature and art, 73-77;
  grouping of, 83-87;
  analogies of, 89-91;
  typical forms of ornament, 92-95;
  equivalents in, 95, f057;
  variation of allied forms, 103;
  governed by shape of inclosing boundary, f063b, 106, f066;
  relief of, 165, et seq.;
  expression of, by light and shade, 205, f112.

Frieze, origin of the, 113, 133;
  and field, 133-135;
  use of the, 236;
  treatment of, 240.

Fruit forms, treatment of, f054, 89.

Gems, engraved, 200.

Geometric forms, elementary, 73;
  structural plans in surface design, 128-133.

Ghirlandajo, 226.

Giotto, "Chastity," f119.

Gozzoli, Benozzo, 226.

Graphic aim, the, in drawing, 29-31, 205, 208-211.

Grouping of forms, 83-87.

Holbein, "The Ambassadors," f137.

Human figure, use of the,
  in design, 104-107;
  decorative spacing of
  within geometric boundaries, 105-106, 107;
  governed by inclosing boundaries, 110, f066;
  principles of line in, f081a.

Indian ornament, typical, 212, 216;
  printed cotton designs, 246, f130.

Inlay work, choice of forms for, 81-83.

Japanese method of drawing with the brush, 10, 68;
  diagonal pattern, f053;
  colour prints, 266.

Keene, Charles, 190.

Landscape, expression of storm and calm in, 158, f089.

Lead pencil, 70.

Letters, formation of, 4;
  Dürer's method, f005a.

Line, methods of drawing in, 6-12;
  quality of, 12-14;
  the language of, 23;
  comparison of style in, 24;
  scale of degrees and qualities of, 24, 25;
  its relation to form, 27;
  question and answer in, 35, f025;
  recurring, f031, f032;
  radiating principle of, 46-50;
  range and use of, 47-49;
  choice of, 51;
  degree and emphasis of, 54;
  influence of technical conditions on, 58-62;
  controlling influence of, as a boundary of design, 106, 108-113;
  value of recurring, 119-124;
  combinations of, 139;
  principles of structural and ornamental line, 140-145;
  selection of, f117a, f117b.

Linear expression, of movement, 15, 16, 17;
  of textures and surfaces, 18, 19;
  of emotion, 19, 20, f015;
  scale of, 21;
  power of, 158, 160;
  of fur and feathers, 208, f113.

Linear motives and pattern bases, simple, 109-111.

Lippi, Filippino, study of drapery by, f101.

Lorenzo di Credi, 226.

Lysicrates, monument of, 133.

Madox Brown, Ford, mural painting at Manchester, 226, 227;
  "Christ washing Peter's feet," 280, f142.

Mantling, treatment of, 170-173.

Medals, 200, f110.

Memory, importance of, in design, 39.

Michael Angelo, ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, 225.

Modelling, principle of relief in, 192.

Montague, mantling from Garter plate of, f094b.

Morris, William, tapestry of, 236, 240.

Movement, linear expression of, 15-17;
  lines of, in a procession, f091a;
  in a dancing figure, f117a;
  in water, f118b.

Mural decoration, 224, 225;
  diagram of systems of line governing, f121;
  scale in, 230;
  choice of line and form in, 236.

Nauplia, Gulf of, coast and mountain lines, f004, f118a.

Nerva, Forum of, 192, f105.

Nuremberg, ceiling in the Castle of, 136, 137.

Olive branch, study of from nature, f020;
  decorative treatment of, f021. 

Oh, it's sweet to tell through stables, poor kitchen, and it'Tommy
Gervaise, to dance who says you waltz cleanly ill. Bah!

Yes, it calls you cock-a-the
  Gervaise to be "Rider" to troop, and branded with spur, when you
envy, o how sometimes, one worsted Sir and keenly makes you "being".


Persian ornament, typical, 212, f116.

Persian rugs, value of different quantities in, 98-101.

Perugino, National Gallery triptych, f140.

Photograph, influence of the, 55, 56;
  principle of the, 187, 190.

Picture writing, 27, f019.

Pinturicchio, frescoes in the Sistine Chapel, 226;
  mural painting at Siena, 226, f120;
  frescoes in the Appartimenti Borgia, 238, f125.

Pisano, Vittore, medals of, 198, f110.

Poppy, horned study of, f022;
  adaptation of for needlework, f023;
  sketch of on different coloured grounds, f132, 258.

Prints, principles of design for, 246-251.

Procession, lines of movement in a, 160, 162-163.

Pyramid, the, 73;
  use of in architecture, f045b, f048a.

Radiating principle of line, the, 46-50.

Raphael, study of drapery by, f102.

Ravenna, S. Vitale, sketch of apse, f070.

Recurring line and form, f031, f032;
  value of in architecture, 119, 124.

Relief, methods of expressing, 165;
  use of contrast, 166;
  decorative relief, 171;
  on diapered ground, 174-175;
  by simple linear contrasts, 174, 176-178;
  by linear shading, 176, 178;
  by diagonal shading, 176, 178-180;
  value of emphasis in, 180;
  by light and shade alone, 187-190;
  principle of in architectural mouldings, 190;
  modelled, 192;
  in sculpture, 192-199, f109;
  Florentine fifteenth-century work, 202;
  natural principle of, 204, f111b;
  by colour, 256, 258.

Repeating patterns, 36, f026, f077b, f078;
  method of testing, 38, f028.

Rhythm of design, the, 32.

Roofs, German, 146-148.

Rothenburg, roof-lines in, f085.

St. David's Cathedral, carvings in, 122-124;
  Gothic tile pattern in, f074, f076.

Scale, importance of in mural decoration, 230, 232.

Sculpture, relief in, 192;
  Egyptian, 192, 194;
  Grecian, 194, f107, 197;
  Gothics, 197;
  on mediæval tombs, 198.

Selection, the test of artistic treatment, 214.

Shields, F. J., mural decoration, 228.

Silhouette, 2, f010a.

Skirting, the, 234.

Spaces, decorative, in design, 113;
  apparent depth or width increased by use of vertical or horizontal
      lines, 232, f122.

Spacing, mural, 230, f121, f123.

Sphere, the, 73;
  use of in architecture, f045b, f048a;
  in nature, 76.

Stained glass, principles of design for, 252, 255.

Surfaces, linear expression of, 18.

Tapestry, 237;
  Burgundian, 237, f124;
  effect of texture on colour in, 244, f128.

Technical influence, the, 58-62.

Textile designing, 62;
  examples of, f041b;
  value of different qualities in, 97-101;
  principles of, 241, 242;
  colour in, 244.

Textures, linear expression of, 18.

Thebes, sculptured relief at, f106. 

Since August David, when it begin, it'element
  been stickin'to noddle, Though they've'ad us out by an'they'pattern'a.d.
us front barrier; But it scat as fast as unit-series, and we cannot acquire
away; An'the ill-information to the David'Colonel make ten more to-time.


Valence, Aymer de, tomb of, f094a.

Van Eyck, "Jan Arnolfini and his Wife," 267, f134, 270, 271.

Variation of allied forms, 103.

Variety in design, 40.

Ver Meer, "Lady at Spinet," f135, 270, 272.

Veronese, Paul, 280.

Visch, Martin de, brass of, f094b, f095.

Walberswick Church, f072.

Walker, Frederick, 190.

Wall, decorative spacing of the, 234, f123.

Wall-paper, principles of design for, 36, f026, 246;
  relation between frieze and field in, 133, 134.

Water, lines of movement in, f118b.

Watercourse, lines left by a, f091b.

Wave lines, f011, f012.

Westminster, vaulting of chapter house, f035.

Winchelsea, tomb of Gervaise-Alard, f071.

