Industry is confined almost exclusively to agriculture. They have neither merchants nor manufacturers
to form, or aid in forming, a respectable and influential middle class; and the public officers
of the state they look upon as their natural and irreconcileable enemies. When the aristocracy
of Europe buried their daughters alive in nunneries, the state of society was much the same
as it now is in Oude. The King has prohibited both infanticide and suttee. The latter being
essentially a public exhibition, the local authorities have continued, in great measure, to
put down; but the former was certainly never more common than it is at present, for the Rajpoot
landholders were never before more strong and numerous. That suttees were formerly very numerous
in Oude is manifest from the numerous suttee tombs we see in the vicinity of every town and
almost every village; but the Rajpoots never felt much interested in them; they were not necessary
either to their pride or purse.*

[* Suttee, infanticide, suicide, the maiming of any one, or making any one an eunuch, were
all prohibited by the King of Oude, on the 15th of May, 1833, as reported to Government by
the Resident on the 6th November, 1834. These prohibitions were reported to the Resident, by
the King, on the 14th of June, 1833.]

February 24th, 1850.--Dureeabad, ten miles south-east, over a plain of good soil--doomut and
mutteear--covered with the same rich crops and fine foliage. There is at present no other district
in Oude abounding so much in gang robbery and other crime as this of Dureeabad Rodoulee, in
which the Amil, Girdhara Sing, is notoriously conniving at these crimes from a consciousness
of utter inability to contend with the landholders who commit them, or employ men to commit
them. Yet he has at his disposal a force that ought to be sufficient to keep in order a district
five times as large. He has the Jannissar battalion of nujeebs, under Seetla Buksh at present;
the Zoolfukar Sufderee battalion of nujeebs, under Bhow-od Dowlah, who never leaves Court;
and the Judeed, or new regiment, consisting of a thousand men. He has nine guns, and a squadron
of horse. Of the guns, five are on the ground, utterly useless; four will bear firing a few
rounds. For these four he has bullocks, but they are not yet in condition. Of the seer and
half of corn, drawn for each bullock per diem, only half a seer is given. Of the corps, more
than one-half of the men are at Lucknow, in attendance upon Court favourites; and of the half
present not one-third are fit for the work of soldiers.

The Amil rode by my side, and I asked him about the case of the marriage-procession. "Sir,"
said he, "what you heard from Seoraj-od Deen is all true. Imam Buksh had a strong fort in his
estate of Ouseyree, five miles to our right, where he had a formidable gang, that committed
numerous dacoitees and highway robberies in the country around. I was ordered to attack him
with all my force. He got intimation, and assembled his friends to the number of five thousand.
I had not half the number. We fought till he lost seventy men, and I had thirty killed and
fifteen wounded. He then fled to the jungles, and I levelled his fort with the ground. He continued,
however, to plunder, and at last seized the bridegroom and all the marriage party, and took
them to his bivouac in the jungles. The family was very respectable, and made application to
me, and I was obliged to restore him to his estate, where he has lived ever since in peace.
I attacked him in November 1848, and he took off the marriage party in February following."
"But," said a poor hackery driver, who was running along by my side, and had yesterday presented
me a petition, "you forgot to get back my two carts and bullocks which he still keeps, and
uses for his own purpose, though I have been importuning you ever since." "And what did he
do to you when he got you into the jungles?" "He tied up and flogged all who seemed respectable,
and worth something--such as merchants and shopkeepers--and poked them with red-hot ramrods
till they paid all they could get, and promised to use all the influence and wealth of their
families to force the Amil to restore him to his estate on his own terms." "And were the parties
married after their release?" "Yes, sir, we were released in April, after the Amil had been
made to consent to his terms; and they were married in May; but I could not get back my two
carts." "And on what terms did you restore this Imam Buksh to his estate?" "I granted him a
lease, sir," said the Amil, "at the same rate of five thousand rupees a-year which he had paid
before."*

[* This Imam Buksh, in April, 1850, went in disguise to the annual fair held at Bahraetch,
in honour of the old saint. He was recognized by some of Captain Bunbury's soldiers, who attempted
to seize him. He was armed with sword, spear, and shield, and defended himself as long as he
could. Seeing no chance of escape, he plunged both sword and spear into his own belly, and
died, though Captain Bunbury came up, had his wounds sewn up, and did all he could to save him.]

Stopping to talk with the peasantry of a village who had come out to the roadside to pay their
respects and see the procession, I asked them how, amidst such crimes and disorders, they could
preserve their crops so well. "Sir," said they, "we find it very difficult and expensive to
do so, and shall find it still more so when the crops are cut and stacked, or have been threshed
and stored; then these gangs of robbers have it all their own way, and burn and plunder all
over the country; we are obliged to spend all we have in maintaining watchmen for our fields."
"But the pausee bowmen have an allowance for this duty, have they not?" "Yes, sir, they have
all an allowance. Every cultivator, when he cuts his crop, leaves a certain portion standing
for the pausee who has guarded it, and this we call his Bisar. Over and above this he has a
portion of land from the proprietor or holder of the village, which he tills himself or gets
tilled by others." "And they are strong and faithful watchmen, are they not?" "Yes, sir, they
are; and though they will thieve and join gangs of robbers in any enterprise, they will never
betray their trust. They consider it a point of honour not to trespass on fields or property
under the guardianship of members of their own class with whom they are on good terms, or to
suffer any persons whatever to trespass on what is under their own care. The money which we
send to the treasuries is commonly intrusted to pausees, and their fidelity and courage may
be relied upon. The gang robbers do little injury to our fields while the crops are green,
for they take animals of hardly any kind with them in their enterprises; and having to move
to and from their points of attack as quickly as possible, they could carry little of our crops
with them; they are, too, afraid of the arrows of the pausee bowmen at night, if they venture
to trespass upon our fields." "And are these pausee bowmen paid at the rate you mention all
over the country?" "No, sir; they are in some parts paid in what is called the beega arhaeya,
or two seers and half of grain from every beega. From a pucka beega they get pucka two and
half seers; and from a kutcha beega, a kutcha two and half seers."* "Your crops, my friends,
are finer than I have ever before seen them in Oude." "Yes, sir, they are very fine; but how
we shall gather them God only knows, with such gangs of desperate robbers all around us. The
alarm is sounded every night, and we have no rest. The Government authorities are too weak
to protect us, or too indifferent to our sufferings; and we cannot afford to provide the means
to protect ourselves."

[* The kutcha measure bears the same relation to the pucka in weight as in land measurement.]

As we went on, I asked the Amil what had become of Ahburun Sing, of Kyampore, the landholder
who murdered his father to get possession of his estate, as mentioned in the early part of
this Diary. "Ahburun Sing, sir, is still in possession of his estate of Kyampore, and manages
it exceedingly well." "I thought he had taken to the jungles with his gang, like the rest of
his class after such a crime, in order to reduce you to terms?" "It was his father, sir, Aman
Sing, that was doing this. He was the terror of the country; neither road nor village was safe
from him. He murdered many people, and plundered and burnt down many villages; and all my efforts
to put him down were vain. At last I came to an understanding with his eldest son, who remained
at home in the management of the estate, and was on bad terms with his father. He had confidential
persons always about his father for his own safety; and when he was one night off his guard,
he went at the head of a small band of resolute men, and seized him. He kept him in prison
for six months, and told me that while so much plunder was going on around, he did not feel
secure of keeping his father a single night; that many of his old followers wanted him back
as their leader, and would certainly rescue him if he was not disposed of; that he could not
put him to death, lest he should be detested by his clan as a parricide; but if I would make
a feigned attack on the fort, he would kill him, and make it appear that he had lost his life
in the defence of it. I moved with all the force I had against the fort, discharged many guns
against the walls, made a feigned attempt at escalade; and in the midst of the confusion Aman
Sing was killed. As soon as this was done, I returned with my force; the son remained in possession
of the estate, and all the surrounding country was delighted to hear that so atrocious a character
had been got rid of."

This was all true, and the Amil did not seem to think that any one who listened to him could
suppose that he had done anything dishonourable in all this: he seemed to think that all must
feel as he did, seeing his utter inability to cope with these baronial robbers in any other
way, and the evils they every day inflicted upon the people. This Aman Sing was the most formidable
of these robbers in this district, and the high road from Lucknow to Fyzabad was for some time
closed by his gang. Of those whom he robbed, he used to murder all who appeared likely to be
able to get a hearing at Court or at the Residency.

The Behraleea Rajpoots, of the Soorujpore Behreyla purgunna, are now the most formidable and
inveterate robbers and plunderers in the district. The Rajah of this estate, Singjoo, was for
some years the most formidable robber in Oude. He had taken a dislike to the family of a sipahee
of the Governor-General's bodyguard; and, in an evil hour, he buried the sipahee's father,
and some members of his family, alive. Strong remonstrances were made through the Resident,
and Man Sing, the son of Dursan Sing, who has been already mentioned in this diary, had orders
to seize him. In March, 1845, he made a march of forty miles at the head of five hundred active
and brave men; and, on the night of the 20th of that month, reached the gate of the fort of
Soorujpore, broke it open, entered, killed and wounded fifty of the Rajah's men, and lost five
of his own.

The Rajah escaped and took shelter in the fort of Goura. After taking possession of the fort,
eight guns, and some elephants, and releasing two hundred unhappy prisoners, Man Sing followed
the Rajah to Goura, where he was joined by Captain Magness and his corps. The gate of this
fort was giving way before Man Sing's pickaxemen, when Singjoo surrendered. He was taken to
Lucknow, and there died in gaol. The village, in which his father had been buried alive, Hukkamee,
was given to the sipahee, and is still held by the family;* but they are a good deal worried
in the possession by the widow of the old Rajah, who still lives at Soorujpore, and would be
as formidable as her late husband was if she could.

[* In the interval, during which Singjoo held this village, he had added to its boundaries
a good deal of land belonging to himself and others, under the impression that he was secure
in the hereditary possession. The sipahee's family seized upon all these lands, while they
paid Government only the old rate of revenue. The widow of Singjoo has been ever since trying
to recover them, in the usual way, by night attacks, and a good many lives have been lost on
both sides, but most on the side of the sipahee's family. December 4th, 1851.]

Seodeen, another leader of the same tribe, had been seized in the same manner by Man Sing's
father, Dursun Sing, in October, 1830; and soon after three of his nephews were seized, and
all four died in gaol at Lucknow; but Chunda and Indul, the brothers of these three men, are
still among the most formidable robbers of the district. Hardly a night passes without their
plundering some village or other, though Chunda continues to hold his estate, which yields
2250 rupees a-year, under the security of Seetla Buksh, the commandant of the Jannissaree battalion,
for the payment of four hundred and fifty rupees a-year. The other robbers of the Dureeabad
Rodowlee district, most formidable, are--

1. Imambuksh, above described, as having seized the marriage party. In October last he attacked
the town of Syud Mahomedpore, killed three of the Syud proprietors, and plundered it of all
he could find. In the interval between his being driven out of his stronghold and restored,
he attacked and plundered no less than twelve villages, in the same purgunna of Bussooree Mowae.
In one of them, Myrmow, belonging to Ameer Chowdheree, he killed no less than twelve of the
inhabitants. He still keeps up his gang, and plunders, though restored to his estate on his
own terms.*

[* The death of this robber, Imam Buksh, has been already described in a note.]

2. Junuck Sing, Behraleea, and his brother, Jeskurun, only twenty days ago, attacked, plundered,
and burnt down the town of Meeangunge, through which we passed this morning, and carried off
all the inhabitants from whom they thought they could extort any ransom. Only two days ago,
they attacked and plundered the village of Bhojpore, belonging to Soorujbulee Canoongo, one
of the most respectable men in the district; and cut off the hands of six persons, one of whom
died from loss of blood. The next day they attacked and plundered Gorawa, a village belonging
to the same person, and burnt it down. Two of the inhabitants were severely wounded, and many
bullocks perished in the flames. Within the last year they have taken off more than two thousand
head of cattle from the purgunna of Soorujpore Behreyla, in which these villages are situated.
Their chief associates in the crimes they commit every day are Chunda and Indul, their clansmen
above named.

3. Daood Khan, zumeendar of Sundona, in Mowae Bussooree. He has murdered several of his co-sharers
in the estate, and taken their lands--frightened out others, and taken theirs, and at the head
of his band of ruffians he robs on the highway, and plunders villages.

4. Benee Sing Kana, Rajpoot of Deeh, in the Mohlara purgunna. He is blind of one eye, and has
a small but formidable gang. In November, 1850, the native collector of Mohlara, sent a detachment
of one hundred men, accompanied by Seonath Sing, a co-sharer of Benee Sing, in the village
of Deeh, and Oree Sing, a sipahee, in Captain Orr's Frontier Police, to attack his small gang
in their stronghold at Atgowa, in the Rodowlee purgunna. They reached the place at the dawn
of day, and forthwith commenced the attack. Benee Sing and his men made a stoat defence. Rajah
Man Sing came up, and great numbers of the armed peasantry joined in the attack. They took
the place about nine o'clock; but Benee Sing, with fourteen of his stoutest men, defended his
house as a citadel till morning, when the house was set fire to by the assailants. One of the
fourteen was burnt and disabled, when Benee Sing and the remaining thirteen rushed out, sword
in hand, to sell their lives as dearly as possible. Benee Sing and twelve of the thirteen were
killed; and the thirteenth at last threw down his arms, and called for quarter. He got it,
and was saved. Six of his men had before been killed in defending the place. Man Sing had three
men wounded and one killed; three more of the assailants were killed, and seven wounded. The
head of the "one-eyed robber" was sent in to the king, and was received with much joy.

5. Jeskurun Behraleea, zumeendar of Kiteya, in Soorujpore.

6. Rughbur Behraleea, of Kiteya, an associate of Imam Buksh and Chunda. Four months ago his
gang seized two carts laden with valuable property belonging to Seodeen subahdar, of the Honourable
Company's service. Through the interposition of the Resident they were restored fifteen days ago.

7. Jugurnath Chuprassee, a bhala soltan Rajpoot. This is one of the most formidable of the
leaders of banditti in this and the adjoining district of Jugdeespore. He and his elder brother,
Surubdowun Sing, were chuprassees on the establishment of Captain Paton, when he was the First
Assistant at Lucknow, and had charge of the Post-office, in addition to his other duties. A
post-office runner was one night robbed on the road, and Jugurnath was sent out to inquire
into the circumstances. The Amil of the district gave him a large bribe to misrepresent the
case to his master; and as he refused to share this bribe with his fellow-servants, they made
known his manifold transgressions to Captain Paton, who forthwith dismissed him. Surubdowun
Sing was soon after dismissed for some other offence, and they both retired to their estate
of Oskamow, in the Jugdeespore district.

This estate comprised fifteen villages. They obtained the leases of these villages by degrees,
through the influence which their position at the Residency gave them. As soon as they got
the lease of a village, they proceeded to turn out all the old proprietors and cultivators,
in order the better to secure possession in perpetuity; and those among them of the military
class, fought "to the death," to retain or recover possession of their rights. To defend what
they had iniquitously acquired, Jugurnath and his brothers collected together bands of the
most desperate ruffians in the country, and located them in the several villages, so as to
be able to concentrate and support each other at a concerted signal. The ousted proprietors
attacked only those who presumed to reside in or cultivate the lands of which they had been
robbed; but Jugurnath and his brethren were less scrupulous; and as they could afford to pay
such bands in no other way, they gave them free licence to plunder all the villages around,
and all travellers on the highway. Their position and influence at the Residency enabled them
to deter the local authorities from exposing their iniquities; and they went on till all the
villages became waste, and converted into dens of robbers.

They were, in all, six brothers, and they found their new trade so profitable and exciting,
that they all became leaders of banditti, by profession, long before the dismissal of the two
brothers from the Residency, though no one, I believe, ventured to prefer charges against them
to the Resident or the Durbar. Soon after their dismissal, however, Jugurnath one night attacked
and murdered his eldest brother, Surubdowun Sing, in order to get the whole estate to himself,
and put his widow and daughter into prison. His other four brothers became alarmed, separated
from him, and set up each his separate gang. But Jugurnath contrived soon after, in a dark
night, to shoot the third brother, Himmut, dead, with one ball through the chest. Purmode Sing,
the youngest brother, was soon after shot dead by some villager, whose cattle he was driving
off in a night attack. Bhugwunt Sing the fourth, and Byjonath, still survive, and have gangs
of their own, afraid to trust themselves with Jugurnath, who has built two forts, Oskamow and
Futtehpore, in the Jugdeespore district, and a third in two small villages, which he has lately
seized upon and made waste, in the Rodowlee district, in order that he may have a stronghold
to fly to when pressed by the governors of other districts.

They pay no rent or revenue to Government for any of the villages they hold. The king's officers
are afraid to demand any from them. They have plundered a great many villages, and are every
month plundering others. They have murdered a great many persons of both sexes and all ages,
and tortured more into paying ransoms in proportion to their supposed means. Jugurnath is still
the terror of the surrounding country, and a reward of five hundred rupees has been offered
for his apprehension.*

[* See note to Chapter VI., Vol. II., on the capture of Maheput Sing. A reward of one thousand
rupees has since been offered for Jugurnath's arrest. See in Chapter IV., Vol. II:, an account
of his desertion of his master, Captain Paton. He is still at large, and plundering. December
4th, 1851.]

8. Moorut Sing, of Kiteya, which has eleven small villages depending upon it, all occupied
by Rajpoot robbers. Nowgowa, in Mohlara, in Rodowlee, on the left bank of the Goomtee river,
twenty miles below Lucknow, has, in the same manner, twelve villages depending upon it, all
occupied by Rajpoots, who rob, or shelter robbers, when pursued from the east. On the opposite
bank is the village of Kholee, in the Hydergurh purgunna, held by Surfraz Chowdheree, and occupied
by Brahmans and Musulmans, who shelter robbers in the same way. When they are pressed in Nowgowa
they take shelter in Kholee, and when pressed in Kholee they take shelter in Nowgowa. All the
robbers above named find shelter in these villages when pursued, and share their plunder with
the inhabitants.

8. Bhooree Khan. The great-grandfather of Bhooree Khan, Rostam Khan. was the leader of a large
gang of Musulman freebooters. The estate of Deogon, containing thirty-seven villages, belonged
to a family of Bys Rajpoots. Rostam Khan and his gang seized upon them all, and turned out
the Rajpoot proprietors, and by force made three of them Musulmans, Kanhur, Bhooree, Geesee;
and all their descendants are of the same creed.

Imam Buksh, the father of Bhoree Khan, built a fort in Deogon, which the family still held.
In 1829, Rajah Dursun Sing took the mortgage of the estate for twenty-eight thousand one hundred
and ten rupees, to enable Imam Buksh to liquidate a balance of revenue due to Government. When
the time of payment came, in 1832, Imam Buksh could pay nothing; and he transferred the estate
to Dursun Sing, on a deed of sale or bynama. He continued to manage the estate for Dursun Sing
in farm; but, falling in balance, he was put into confinement, where he remained till he died,
three years after, in the year 1842. Bhooree Khan was then a boy, but he continued to receive
the usual perquisites from the estate while Dursan Sing held it. In the year 1846, the governor
of the district, Wajid Allee Khan, took the estate from Dursun Sing's family, and made it over
to Bhooree Khan for a present of five thousand rupees. He ceased to pay the Government demand,
collected a gang, and became a leader of banditti. He plundered all the people around, and
all travellers on the road, seized and confined all who seemed likely to be able to pay ransom,
and tortured and maimed them till they did pay; and those who could not or would not pay, he
put to cruel deaths. The thirty-six villages on his estate became deserted by all save his
followers, and those whom he could make subservient to his purposes, as robbers and murderers.

Ousan Opudeea resided at the village of Etapore, in the estate of Deogon, and possessed and
cultivated lands in that and other villages around, for which he paid an annual rent of five
hundred and ninety- nine rupees. In 1846, Bhooree Khan demanded from Ousan an increase of one
hundred and fifty rupees, which he paid. The year after 1847, he demanded a further increase
of the same amount, which he paid. He was then summoned to appear before Bhooree Khan, and
was on his way when told that he would be seized with all his family, and tortured. He, in
consequence, took his family to the village of Patkhoree. Bhooree Khan followed with a gang
of several hundred men, and two guns, attacked, plundered, and burnt down his house, and fifteen
bullocks and buffaloes perished in the flames. One hundred and fifty head of cattle belonging
to the village were taken off by the gang. Dwarka, one of Ousan's sons, was killed in defending
the house; and the other two, Davey, aged sixteen, and Seochurun, aged seventeen, were seized,
bound, and taken off to the jungle, with Ramdeen, Ousan's nephew, and many others of the respectable
inhabitants of the village. After exacting a ransom from all the rest, he let them go; but
retained the two sons of Ousan, and demanded twelve hundred rupees for their ransom. Ousan
had lost all his property in the attack, and could raise no more than seven hundred rupees
among his relatives and friends. This would not satisfy Bhooree Khan, who, after torturing
and starving the boys for twelve months, and taking the seven hundred rupees, took them to
the jungle of Gaemow, with fetters on their legs, and bamboo collars round their necks. He
there had them tied to trees, and after firing at them as targets, for some time, with bows
and arrows, he had them cut to pieces with swords, and then seized upon all the lands which
their father held.

In 1848, Bhooree Khan attacked and plundered the house of Peer Khan, in Khanseepoor in Deogon,
and bound and carried him off with his two brothers, Ameer Khan and Jehangeer Khan. He had
them beaten with sticks, and caused small iron spikes to be driven up under their nails, and
their eyelids to be sewn up with needle and thread, and their beards to be burned, till he
extorted from them a ransom of eight hundred rupees.

While they were thus confined and being tortured, they saw four travellers brought in by the
gang, and tortured and beaten to death, because they could not pay the ransom demanded from them.

Bhoree Khan, in this month of August 1848, attacked the house of Sirdar Khan, an invalid naek
of the 36th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, and, after robbing it, burnt it to the ground,
and bound and carried off to his fort in Deogon, Sirdar Khan himself and his three sons, Khoda
Buksh, Allah Buksh, and Allee Buksh; the first fourteen years of age, the second eight, and
the third seven years. He tortured all three, and demanded a ransom of nineteen hundred rupees.
This sum was borrowed and paid by Jehangeer Khan, the brother of the naek, and the naek was
released. Bhooree Khan would not, however, release either of the sons till he got five hundred
rupees more; but Sirdar Khan was unable to procure this further sum, and, in April 1849, Bhooree
Khan had two of the boys, Khoda Buksh and Alla Buksh, tied to trees and shot to death with
arrows, for the amusement of his gang. They were then hacked with swords, and their bodies
were thrown into a ditch, whence he would not permit their friends to remove them for burial.
Sirdar Khan became for a time deranged on hearing of the sufferings of his sons, and wandered
about the country. Bhooree Khan, with his gang, again attacked the village, and burned it all
down, and drove off all the cattle, including all that Sirdar Khan possessed. He recovered,
and changed his residence to the village of Deokalee. Bhooree Khan still retained the third
son, Allee Buksh, alias Pulleen, and he is still in prison.*

[* The Resident effected the release of the third son, Allee Buksh, in January, 1851, through
the aid of Captain Orr, of the Frontier Police.]

Sirdar Khan's ancestors were the Rajpoot proprietors of the estate of Deogon, and were forcibly
converted to Mahommedanism by Bhooree Khan's ancestors when they seized upon the estate. Sirdar
Khan cultivated eighteen beegahs of land in the village of Salteemow, in Deogon, for which
he had long paid thirty-six rupees a year rent. Bhooree Khan demanded sixty-five a-year before
the attack, and this sum Sirdar Khan paid, but it had no effect in softening the robber leader.

In the year 1847, soon after he took possession of the estate, Bhooree Khan sent a gang under
the command of his cousin, Mungul Khan, to attack the house of Dulla, the most opulent and
respectable merchant of the district, who resided in the town of Mukdoompore. Dulla had two
sons, Nychint and Pursun Sing. After plundering the house, the gang seized Dulla, his son Nychint,
Golbay the son of Pursun Sing, and Ajoodheea the son of Nychint. Pursun Sing, the other son
of the old merchant, had gone off to the Governor of the district, Rajah Incha Sing. to adjust
his annual accounts. The females of the family got out through the back-door of the female
apartments, and escaped to the village of Etwara, in the Jugdeespore district, where they had
a residence. All the valuables had been buried in a pit in the house, some ten feet deep, and
the females had no time to take them up.

The old man, his son Nychint, and his two sons, were sent off to Bhooree Khan, who, on learning
that the valuables had not been found, came with fifty more armed men, accompanied by Baboo
Mudar Buksh, the tallookdar of Silha in Jugdispore, his own agent Muheput, and a Brahmin prisoner
named Cheyn, who knew Dulla, and the wealth he possessed. He brought with him the merchant's
son Nychint, and commanded him to point out the place in which the valuables lay concealed.
He would not do so, and Bhooree Khan then drove four tent- pins into the ground in the courtyard,
placed Nychint on his face, and tied his hands and feet to these pegs. He then had him burnt
into the bones with red-hot ramrods, but the young man still persisted in his refusal. He had
then oil boiled in a large brass pot which they found in the house, and poured it over him
till all the skin of his body came off. He became insensible for a time, and when he recovered
his senses he pointed out the spot. Gold and silver ornaments and clothes of great value, and
brass utensils belonging to the family, or held as pledges for money due to the old man, were
taken up, with one hundred and fifty matchlocks and the same number of swords. They found also
many pits, containing several thousand maunds of grain. The valuables, and as much of the grain
as he could find carriage for, Bhooree Khan and his gang carried off, and the rest of the grain
he gave to any one who would take it. The value of the whole plunder was estimated at one hundred
and fifty thousand rupees.

Nychint was unbound, but died that night, and the body was made over to the Brahmin, Cheyn,
who had now become a Mussulman. He took it to the jungle, where he had it burnt with the usual
ceremonies. Bhooree Khan still detained Ajodheea, the son of Nychint, and Golbay, the son of
Pursun Sing, and demanded a further ransom for them, but he released Dulla, who came home and
died of grief and of the tortures inflicted upon him in less than a month after. Cheyn, Dabey
Sookul, and Forsut, all Brahmins of Mukdoompoor, were witnesses to the tortures inflicted upon
Nychint, and to the plunder of the house. He kept Dulla's grandsons for a year more, with occasional
tortures, but the surviving son, Pursun Sing, had nothing more to give, and no one would give
or lend him anything. Golbay, his son, at last contrived to get a letter conveyed to him, stating
that he was now less carefully guarded than he had been; that he and his cousin, Ajodheea,
were sent to take their meals with a bearer, who lived in a hamlet on the border of the jungle,
where they were guarded by only four pausee bowmen, and if his father could come with fifty
armed men, and surprise them at a certain hour, he might rescue them. He assembled fifty men
from surrounding villages, and at the appointed time, before daybreak, he surprised the guard,
and rescued his son and nephew.

Gunga Purshad, son of Chob Sing, canoongo of Silha, in Deogon, left the place when Bhooree
Khan took to plundering, and went off, in 1847, with his family to reside at Budulgur, a village
held by Allee Buksh, a mile distant. A month after he had settled in that place, Bhooree Khan
came with his gang, surrounded his house at night, plundered it, and seized and took off his
brother, Bhowanee Purshad, two younger brothers, and his, Gunga Purshad's, daughter and son,
with Gowree Lall and Gunesh Purshad, his relations, who had come on a visit to congratulate
him on the prudence of his change of residence. Gunga Purshad was absent at the time on business.
All the prisoners were taken to the jungles and tortured with red-hot iron ramrods, and put
into heavy fetters. He demanded a ransom of nine hundred and fifty rupees for all. Gunga Purshad
sold all he had except some cows and bullocks, and collected four hundred rupees, and his relation's
clubbed together and raised one hundred more. The five hundred were sent to Bhooree Khan, and
he took them and released all but Bhowanee Purshad. His two younger brothers collected the
cows and bullocks, and went with them to Mukdoompoor, in the hope of being allowed to till
their lands; but Bhooree Khan and his gang came, seized and sold all the cows and bullocks
they had saved, plundered them of everything, and took their lands from them. They all fled
once more, and went to reside at Putgowa. At Mukdoompoor, Bhooree Khan had Bhowanee Purshad
flogged so severely that he fell down insensible, and he then had red-hot iron spikes thrust
into his eyes, and a few days after he died in confinement of his sufferings. The value of
the property taken from the family, besides the five hundred rupees' ransom, was one thousand
rupees. He, about the same time, seized and carried off from Mukdoompoor Gunga Sookul, a Brahmin,
tortured him to death, and threw his body into the river.

About the same time, August 1847, he seized and carried off Cheyn, a Brahmin of Mukdoompoor,
son of Bhowanee Buksh. He had come to him to pay the year's rent for the lands he held in that
village. After paying his own rents and those of others who were afraid to put themselves into
Bhooree Khan's power, and had sent by Cheyn all that was due, he demanded from him a ransom
of four hundred rupees. He could give no more, and was put under a guard and tortured in the
usual way. As he persisted in declaring his inability to pay more, a necklace of cow's bones
was put round his neck, and one of the bones was thrust into his mouth, and the blood of a
cow was thrown over him, from which he became for ever an outcast from his religion. He expected
to be put to death, but a friend conveyed to him the sum of ten rupees, which he gave to the
robbers employed to torture him, and they spared his life. His son had taken shelter in the
village of Pallee, whence he sent a pausee bowman, named Bhowaneedeen, to inquire after him,
and offered him ninety rupees if he would rescue his father. The pausee pledged himself to
Bhooree Khan to pay the money punctually, and Cheyn was released. But Bhooree Khan had cut
down all the crops upon the lands, and taken them away, and cut down also the five mango-trees
which stood upon his land and had been planted by his ancestors. During his confinement, Cheyn
saw Bhooree Khan torture and murder many men, and dishonour many respectable women, whom he
had seized in the same way.

In the same month, August 1847, Bhooree Khan seized Sudhae, the son of Tubbur Khan, of Salteemow,
in Deogon, and his (Sudhae's) two sons, Surufraz and Meerun Buksh, and took them to the jungle.
Sadhae had paid him the eighty rupees rent due for the land he tilled, but Bhooree Khan demanded
one hundred rupees more; and when he could not pay he made him over to the Jumogdar, to whom
he had become pledged for the payment of a certain sum. The Jumogdar had him beaten till he
saw that nothing could be beaten out of him, when he let him go to save the cost of keeping
him. Bhooree Khan became very angry, and, with his gang, attacked and plundered the house of
Sudhae's brother, Badul Khan, in Salteemow, with whom Sudhae lived. The two brothers and their
families expected this attack, and escaped unhurt, and fled, but they lost all their property.

Bhooree Khan then ordered one of his followers, Mirdae, to take Surufraz to a tank outside
the village and cut off his nose. He took out at the same time Bukhtawur, a Brahmin, and cut
off his nose first. Mirdae then ordered a Chumar, of Deogon, to cut off the nose of Surafraz,
and standing over him with a sword, told him to cut it off deep into the bone. Surufraz prayed
hard for mercy, first to Bhooree Khan and then to Mirdae; but his prayers were equally disregarded
by both. The Chumar cut off his nose with a rude instrument into the bone, and with it-all
his upper lip. He was then let go; but he fell down, after going a little distance, from pain
and the loss of blood, and was there found by his uncle, Badul Khan, who had gone in search
of him. He was taken home, but died the same night. His brother, Meerun Buksh, was soon after
released for a ransom of fifty rupees.

Golzar Khan, sipahee of the Dull Regiment, in the King of Oude's service, tilled some lands
in the village of Mukdoompore, for which he paid rent to Bhooree Khan. In 1847 he first extorted
from him double the rent agreed upon, then seized all the crops, and plundered his house, and
lastly seized the sipahee's sister, and had her forcibly married to his servant and relative,
Mungul Khan.

In 1846 Bhooree Khan attacked the house of Allah Buksh of Gaemow, in Deogon, plundered it,
killed his brother, Meerun Buksh, cut off the hands of his relative, Peer Buksh, and wounded
three other relatives who happened at the time to be on a visit with his family. The articles
of property that were taken off by Bhooree Khan and his gang consisted of five horses and mares,
fifteen matchlocks, four maunds of brass utensils, three hundred and twenty-five maunds of
grain, five swords, four boxes of clothes, fifteen cows and bullocks, five hundred and forty
rupees in money. The houses of all the rest of the village community were plundered in the
same manner. They cut down all the mango and mhowa trees belonging to the family, as well as
all those belonging to other people of the village.

In 1847 he attacked the house of Akber Khan, in the village of Kanderpore, in Deogon; and after
plundering it, he bound and carried off his son, Rumzam, a lad of fifteen years of age; and
the year after, 1848, he again attacked his house, and seized and took off his brother, Wuzeer
Khan. He has them still in confinement under torture, because Akber Khan cannot get the sum
demanded for their ransom; and all applications for their release to the Government authorities
have been disregarded.*

[* The Resident could not effect the release of these two persons, the son and brother of Akber
Khan, till January, 1851.]

In the month of August, 1848, Pransook, a Rajpoot, and Lullut Sing, his cousin, of Booboopore,
in Rodowlee, went to purchase a supply of bhoosa for their cattle to Mukdoompore, in the Deogon
estate, and were there seized by Aman Sing, an agent of Bhooree Khan, who pretended that they
had given shelter to some of the cultivators who had fled from Deogon, and demanded their surrender.
They protested that they had never seen any such cultivators, and knew nothing whatever about
them. They were bound and taken off to Deogon to Bhooree Khan, who had them both put into the
stocks. After having been in the stocks for five days, they were again taken to Bhooree Khan,
who ordered them to produce the cultivators, or pay a ransom of one hundred and five rupees.
They were then taken back to prison, and confined for eighteen days more; and having no food
supplied them, they were obliged to sell all the clothes they wore to procure a scanty supply.

To frighten them, Bhooree Khan one day ordered his followers to make outcasts in their presence
of two respectable men whom he had in prison, Deena Sing, a Chowan Rajpoot of Jooreeum, and
a Brahmin of Poorwa, a small hamlet near Deogon, while he sat on the roof of his house to look
on. One of his Musulman followers forced open Deena Sing's mouth, and spit into it; and the
others tied the bones of a neelgae round the neck of the Brahmin, by which both of them were
deprived of their caste. They then told Pransook and Lullut Sin that they would be served in
the same manner unless they paid the ransom demanded. They became alarmed, and sent to their
friends to request them earnestly to borrow all they could, and send it for their ransom. Their
cousin, Sheobuksh Sing Jemadar, an invalid pensioner from the 2nd Regiment of Bengal Native
Infantry, collected one hundred and eighteen rupees, and sent them. Bhooree Khan took one hundred
and five for himself, and his servants took thirteen, and they were released; but they were
made to swear on the tomb of the saint Shah Sender that they would not complain of the treatment
they had received, and had their swords and shields taken from them. They had been confined
twenty-seven days.

In 1846 Davey Sookul, a Brahmin, cultivated land in Mukdoompore, for which he paid an annual
rent of seventy-one rupees. In consequence of murders and robberies perpetrated by Bhooree
Khan and his gang, he went off with his family to reside at Budulgur, under the protection
of Rajah Allee Buksh, a mile distant. He had witnessed the murder of Bhowanee Purshad and the
torture of many other persons. One morning his brother, Gunga Purshad, returned to Mukdoompore
to gather some mangoes from trees there planted by their ancestors. He was there seized by
Bhooree Khan and his gang, who were lying in wait for him. They demanded a ransom of three
hundred rupees, which Davey Sookul could not raise. He kept Gunga Purshad in prison for four
months, and had him tortured every day. Finding that the money was not forthcoming, Bhooree
Khan had a firebrand thrust into one of his eyes, and then had him flogged with bunches of
sticks till he died. Khoda Buksh, of Kurteepore, one of the followers of Bhooree Khan, went
and reported this to his brother and widow, who wept over the tale of his sufferings. His brother,
Boodhoo Sookul, a sipahee of the 45th Regiment, presented a petition to the Resident, describing
these atrocities, and praying redress, but none was afforded.

Bukhtawur, son of Kaushee, a Brahmin, tilled lands in Deogon, for which he paid an annual rent
of sixty-eight rupees. In 1847 Bhooree Khan demanded double that sum; and when he could not
pay, he seized and sold all the stock on the land, and seized and took off to the jungles Bukhtawur
and his two brothers, Heeralall and Jankee, and seized upon all their lands, and all the property
they had to the value of five hundred rupees. He kept them in prison for six months, and then
had Bukhtawur's nose cut off by a Chumar, because he could not pay him the ransom demanded.
The nose of Surufraz was cut off at the same time, as above described, and he died in consequence.
Bukhtawur's two brothers made their escape three months afterwards.

In 1848 he attacked the house of Choupae Tewaree, a Brahmin of Ottergow, and after plundering
it he took off the son of Choupae, then thirteen years of age, and his, the son's, wife, and
his young son and his wife, and tortured all, till Choupae borrowed and begged all he could,
and paid the ransom demanded.

Purotee Aheer tilled sixteen beegahs of land in Deogon, for which he paid an annual rent of
thirty-two rupees a-year. As soon as Bhooree Khan got the estate from Maun Sing, in November,
1846, he demanded double the sum, and exacted it. He, in 1848, demanded two hundred and fifty,
seized Purotee, sold all his cows and bullocks, sixteen in number, and other property, and
then released him. Purotee then sent off secretly all his family to Duheepore, two miles distant;
but Bhooree Khan sent off his servants, Bundheen and Bugolal pausees, to trace them. They seized
his two daughters, one fourteen and the other ten years of age, and his son Nihal's wife, and
his son, then only four years of age. Bhooree Khan ravished the two girls, and then released
them, with Nahal's wife and her little son. Purotee saw the noses of Bukhtawar and Surafraz
cut off while he was in confinement, and saw Bhooree Khan put them on a plate, which he placed
in a recess in the wall. It was in March, 1848, when he went to pray that his daughters might
be released after they had been ravished. The family went to reside in the village of Mohlee,
in Khundara, but have all been turned out of their caste in consequence of the dishonour of
his daughters.

In the same year he attacked the house of Foorsut Aheer of Dehpal ka Poorwa, made him prisoner,
and tortured him till he paid eight hundred rupees. After this he made his escape; but Bhooree
Khan seized and sold all his bullocks, cows, and buffaloes, and stores of grain.

In 1845 Bhoore Khan and his gang attacked the house of Buldee Sing, subahdar in the Honourable
Company's service, in the village of Ghurwae, and, after plundering him of all the property
they could find, they seized him and his wife, and took them to the jungles, where they tortured
them till they gave all they could borrow or beg to the amount of many thousand rupees.

About the same time he seized and carried off Eesuree Purshad, a Brahmin, who had fled from
Palpore, in Deogon, and gone for shelter to the Bazaar of Ottergow; and after cutting off his
nose, he put him on an ass with a young pig tied to his neck, and paraded him through the bazaar,
with a drummer before him, to render him an outcast.

In the same year, 1848, he seized Rampurshad Tewaree, and his son Runghoor, cultivators of
Deogon, and demanded from them four times the rent due for the land they tilled; and when they
could not pay, be sold all their cattle, grain, and other property, and had iron spikes driven
up under their nails. Unable to extort money by this means, he caused Sotun Bhurbhoonja, or
grain-parcher, to ------ in his father's face, and then released him.

In 1848 he demanded from Junga Salor, a cultivator of Bhudalmow, in Deogon, double rent for
the land he tilled; and when he could not pay, seized and took off his wife, and cohabited
with her four or five days, and then made some of the followers do the same before he released her.

In the same year, 1848, he and his gang attacked the village of Byrampore, in the Kisnee purgunna,
and seized Omrow Sing, a Bys Rajpoot, and Boodhea, a Goojur, and all the respectable inhabitants
they could get hold of, with their families. After torturing the rest for eight days, and extorting
from them all they could pay, he let them go; but detained Omrow Sing, and had him flogged
every day till he reduced him to a dying state, when he let him go. He was taken off to his
home; but he died as soon as he entered the house and saw his family. The wife of Boodheea,
the Goojur, he confined and violated. Bukhtawur deposes that he saw all this while he was in
confinement.

He, in 1848, seized and carried off to his stronghold Kaseeram, a Brahmin, of Deogon, and cut
off his nose, and tortured him with hot irons till he got from him all that he and his relations
could be made to pay, and then let him go.

In the same year and month be attacked and plundered the village of Puttee, in the Jugdeespore
purgunna, carried off all the shopkeepers of the place, and tortured them till they paid him
altogether three thousand rupees.

In the same year he attacked the village of Koteea, in the Rodowlee district, carried off one
of the shopkeepers, and drove iron pins up under his nails till he paid a ransom of one hundred
and fifty rupees. He drove off and sold all the cattle of the village.

In the same year he attacked and plundered the village of Budulgur, in the Jugdeespore purgunna,
in the same way.

In the same year he attacked and plundered the village of Khorasa, in Rodowlee, carried off
Sopae, the Putwaree, with his mother and wife, and tortured them till they paid a ransom of
two hundred rupees. He murdered about the same time the son of Buksh Khan, the holder of the
village of Gaepore, and two members of the family of Poorae, a carpenter of Almasgunge, in Deogon.

After plundering the house of Sungum Doobee, a respectable Brahmin of Mukdoompore, he seized
him and his nephew, took them off to his fort, and, because they could not pay the ransom he
demanded, he caused melting lead to be poured into their ears and noses till they died. About
the same time he, with his own hands, for some slight offence, cut the throat of his table-attendant,
Kbyratee, of Kunhurpore.

About the same time he seized two travellers; and, because they could not pay the ransom demanded,
he suspended one of them to a tree in the village of Sathnee, on the bank of the Goomtee river,
and the other to a tree in the village of Mukdoompore. He had their arms first broken with
bludgeons, and then their feet cut off, and at last they were beaten over the head till they died.

[Bhooree Khan, in March, 1850, went with a gang of three hundred men to assist Gunga Buksh
and his family in the defence of Kasimgunge and Bhetae; but he was too late. On his way back,
in the beginning of April, he left his gang in a grove, six miles from Lucknow, and entered
the city alone in a disguise to visit a celebrated dancing- girl of his acquaintance, named
Bunnee. He had been with her two days, and on the 15th of April he went to see the magnificent
tomb of Mahommed Allee Shah, of which he had heard much. While sauntering about this place
he was recognised by three or four persons belonging to another dancing-girl of his acquaintance,
named the Chhotee Gohur, or "little Gem," whom he had formerly visited. They seized him. As
soon as Bunnee heard of this she sent ten or twelve of her own men, and rescued him from the
followers of the "Little Gem." They took him to Bunnee, who made a virtue of necessity, and
went off with him forthwith to the Minister, who rewarded her with a pair of shawls, and made
suitable presents to her followers.

It is said that he was pointed out to the followers of the "Chhotee Gohur" by Peer Khan, of
Khanseepore, in Deogon, whom Bhooree Khan had some time before plundered and tortured for a
ransom, as already stated. Bhooree Khan was sentenced to transportation beyond seas for life,
and sent off in October, 1851.]

After reading such narratives, an Englishman will naturally ask what are the means by which
such atrocious gangs are enabled to escape the hands of justice. He will recollect the history
of the MIDDLE AGES, and think of strong baronial castles, rugged hills, deep ravines, and endless
black forests. They have no such things in Oude.* The whole country is a level plain, intersected
by rivers, which, with one exception, flow near the surface, and have either no ravines at
all, or very small ones. The little river Goomtee winds exceedingly, and cuts into the soil
in some places to the depth of fifty feet. In such places there are deep ravines; and the landholders
along the border improve these natural difficulties by planting and preserving trees and underwood
in which to hide themselves and their followers when in arms against their Government. Any
man who cuts a stick in these jungles, or takes his camels or cattle into them to browse or
graze without the previous sanction of the landholder, does so at the peril of his life. But
landholders in the open plains and on the banks of rivers, without any ravines at all, have
the same jungles.

[* The Terae forest, which borders Oude to the north, is too unhealthy to be occupied by any
but those who have been born and bred in it. The gangs I am treating of are composed of men
born and bred in the plains, and they cannot live in the Terae forest.]

In the midst of this jungle, the landholders have generally one or more mud forts surrounded
by a ditch and a dense fence of living bamboos, through which cannon-shot cannot penetrate,
and man can enter only by narrow and intricate pathways. They are always too green to be set
fire to; and being within range of the matchlocks from the parapet, they cannot be cut down
by a besieging force. Out of such places the garrison can be easily driven by shells thrown
over such fences, but an Oude force has seldom either the means or the skill for such purposes.
When driven out by shells or any other means, the garrison retires at night, with little risk,
through the bamboo fence and surrounding jungle and brushwood, by paths known only to themselves.
They are never provided with the means of subsistence for a long siege; and when the Oude forces
sent against them are not prepared with the means to shell them out, they sit down quietly,
and starve or weary them out. This is commonly a very long process, for the force is seldom
large enough to surround the place at a safe distance from the walls and bamboo fence, so as
to prevent all access to provision of all kinds, which the garrison is sure to get from their
friends and allies in the neighbourhood, the garrison generally having the sympathy of all
the large landholders around, and the besieging force being generally considered the common
and irreconcilable enemy of all.

As soon as the garrison escapes, it goes systematically and diligently to work in plundering
indiscriminately all the village communities over the most fertile parts of the surrounding
country, which do not belong to baronial proprietors like themselves till it has made the Government
authorities agree to its terms, or reduced the country to a waste. The leaders of the gang
may sometimes condescend to quicken the process by appropriating a portion of their plunder
to bribing some influential person at Court, who gets an injunction issued to the local authorities
to make some arrangement for terminating the pillage and consequent loss of revenue, or he
will be superseded or forfeit his contract. The rebel then returns with his followers, repairs
all the mischief done to his fort, improves its defences, and stipulates for a remission of
his revenue for a year or more, on account of the injury sustained by his crops or granaries.
The unlucky Amil, whose zeal and energy have caused the necessity for this reduction, is probably
thrown into gaol till "he pays the uttermost farthing," or bribes influential persons at Court
to get him released on the ground of his poverty.

I may here mention the jungles in Oude which have been created and are still preserved by landholders,
almost solely for the above purposes. They are all upon the finest soil, and in the finest
climate; and the lands they occupy might almost all be immediately brought into tillage, and
studded by numerous happy village communities.

I may, however, before I begin to describe them, mention the fact that many influential persons
at Court, as well as the landholders themselves, are opposed to such a salutary measure. If
brought under tillage and occupied by happy village communities, all the revenue would or might
flow in legitimate channels into the King's treasury; whereas in their present state they manage
to fill their own purses by gratuities from the refractory landholders who occupy them, or
from the local authorities, who require permission from Court to coerce them into obedience.
Of these gratuities such a salutary measure would deprive them; and it is, in consequence,
exceedingly difficult to get a jungle cut down, however near it may be to the city where wood
is so dear, and has to be brought from jungles five or ten times the distance.

In the Sultanpore District.

1st.--The Jungle of Paperghat, about one hundred miles south-east from Lucknow, on the bank
of the Goomtee river, ten miles long, and three wide, or thirty square miles.

In this jungle Dirgpaul Sing, tallookdar of Nanneemow, has a fort; and Rostum Sing, tallookdar
of Dera, has another.

2nd.--The Dostpore Jungle, one hundred and twenty miles south-east from Lucknow, on the bank
of the Mujhoee river, twelve, miles long, and three broad, or thirty-six square miles.

3rd.--The Khapra Dehee Jungle, one hundred miles south-east from Lucknow, on the plain, about
ten miles long, and six miles broad, or sixty square miles.

4th.--The Jugdeespore Jungle, on the bank of the Goomtee river, fifty miles south-east from
Lucknow, sixteen miles long, and three miles broad, forty-eight square miles.

Allee Buksh Khan, tallookdar, has the fort of Tanda in this jungle, on the bank of the Kandoo
rivulet, which flows through it into the Goomtee. The fort of Bechoogur in this jungle is held
by another tallookdar.

5th.--Gurh Ameytee, seventy miles from Lucknow, south-east, on the bank of the Sae river, nine
miles long and three broad, or twenty seven square miles.

Rajah Madhoe Sing has a fort in this jungle, and is one of the very worst, but most plausible
men in Oude.

6th.--Daoodpoor Jungle, seventy miles south-east from Lucknow, on the plain, four miles long
and three broad, or twelve square miles.

The Beebee or Lady Sagura has her fort and residence in this jungle.

7th.--Duleeppore Jungle, one hundred and ten miles east from Lucknow, on the bank of the Sae
river, ten miles long, and three miles wide, thirty square miles.

Seetla Buksh, who is always in rebellion, has a fort in this jungle.

8th.--The Matona Jungle, fifty miles south-east from Lucknow, on the bank of the Goomtee river,
twelve miles long and three wide-- square miles, thirty-six.

Allee Buksh Khan, a notoriously refractory tallookdar, has a fort in this jungle.

In the Uldeemow District.

9th.--Mugurdhee Jungle, one hundred and forty miles east from Lucknow, on the bank of Ghogra
river, eight miles long and three broad--square miles, twenty-four.

10th.--Putona Jungle, one hundred and twenty miles east from Lucknow, on the bank of the Tonus
river, eight miles long and four miles broad--square miles, thirty-two.

Amreys Sing and Odreys Sing, sons of Surubdowun Sing (who was killed by the King's troops thirty
years ago), hold the fort of Mudungur in this jungle.

12th.--Bundeepore Jungle, east from Lucknow one hundred and forty miles, on the plain, seven
miles long and one broad--seven square miles.

13th.--Chunderdeeh, south-east from Lucknow one hundred and ten miles, on the bank of the Goomtee
river, seven miles long, and three miles wide--square miles, twenty-one.

In the Dureeabad District.

14th.--Soorujpore Behreyla Jungle, east from Lucknow forty miles, on the bank of the Kuleeanee
river, sixteen miles long, and four miles broad--square miles, sixty-four.

Chundee Sing has a fort in this jungle, and the family have been robbers for several generations.
The widow of the late notorious robber, Rajah Singjoo, the head of the family, has a still
stronger one.

15th.--Guneshpore Jungle, sixty miles south-east from Lucknow, on the bank of the Goomtee river,
six miles long and two broad--twelve square miles.

Maheput Sing, an atrocious robber, holds his fort of Bhowaneegur in this jungle.

In the Dewa Jahangeerabad District.

16th.--The Kasimgunge and Bhetae Jungle, eighteen miles north-east from Lucknow, sixteen miles
long, and four miles wide--square miles, sixty-four, on the bank of the little river Reyt.

Gunga Buksh holds the forts of Kasimgunge and Atursae in this jungle; Thakur Purshad those
of Bhetae and Buldeogur; and Bhugwunt Sing that of Munmutpore. Other members of the same family
hold those of Ramgura Paharpore. The whole family are hereditary and inveterate robbers.

In the Bangur District.

17th.--Tundeeawun Jungle, on the plain, west from Lucknow, seventy- two miles, twelve miles
long and six broad--square miles, seventy- two.

In the Salone District.

18th.--The Naen Jungle, eighty miles south from Lucknow, on the bank of the Sae river, sixteen
miles long and three wide--square miles, forty-eight.

Jugurnath Buksh, the tallookdar, holds the fort of Jankeebund, in this jungle; and others are
held in the same jungle by members of his family.

19th.--The Kutaree Jungle, on the bank of the Kandoo river, south- east from Lucknow sixty
miles, eight miles long and three broad-- square miles, twenty-four.

Surnam Sing, the tallookdar, has a fort in this jungle.

In the Byswara District.

20th.--The Sunkurpore Jungle, south of Lucknow seventy miles, on the plain, ten miles long
and three wide--square miles, thirty.

Benee Madhoe, the tallookdar, has three forts in this jungle.

In the Hydergur District.

The rebels and robbers in this jungle trust to the natural defences of the ravines and jungles.

22nd.--Kurseea Kuraea Jungle, south-east from Lucknow fifty miles, on the bank of the Goomtee
river, three miles long and one wide-- square miles, three.

The landholders trust in the same way to natural defences.

In the Khyrabad and Mahomdee Districts.

23rd.--Gokurnath Jungle, north-west from Lucknow one hundred miles, extending out from the
Terae forest, and running south-east in a belt thirty miles long and five wide--square miles,
one hundred and fifty.

Husun Rajah, the tallookdar of Julalpore, has a fort in this jungle. Sheobuksh Sing, the tallookdar
of Lahurpore, holds here the fort of Katesura; and Omrow Sing, the tallookdar of Oel, holds
two forts in this jungle.

In the Baree and Muchreyta Districts.

24th.--The Suraen Jungle, north-west from Lucknow thirty-four miles, along the banks of the
Suraen river, twelve miles long and three miles wide--square miles, thirty-six.

In this jungle Jowahir Sing holds the fort of Basae Deeh; Khorrum Sing, that of Seogur; Thakur
Rutun Sing, that of Jyrampore. They are all landholders of the Baree district, and their forts
are on the north bank of the Saraen river. Juswunt Sing holds the fort of Dhorhara; Dul Sing,
that of Gundhoreea; Rutun Sing holds two forts, Alogee and Pupnamow.--They are all landholders
of the Muchreyta district, and their four forts are on the south bank of the Saraen river.

This gives twenty-four belts of jungle beyond the Terae forest, and in the fine climate of
Oude, covering a space of eight hundred and eighty-six square miles, at a rough computation.*
In these jungles the landholders find shooting, fishing, and security for themselves and families,
grazing ground for their horses and cattle, and fuel and grass for their followers; and they
can hardly understand how landholders of the same rank, in other countries, can contrive to
live happily without them. The man who, by violence, fraud, and collusion, absorbs the estates
of his weaker neighbours, and creates a large one for himself, in any part of Oude, however
richly cultivated and thickly peopled, provides himself with one or two mud forts, and turns
the country around them into a jungle, which he considers to be indispensable as well to his
comfort as to his security.

[* The surface of the Oude territory, including the Terae forest, is supposed to contain twenty-three
thousand seven hundred and thirty- nine square miles. The Terae forest includes, perhaps, from
four to five thousand miles; but within that space there is a great deal of land well tilled
and peopled.]

The atrocities described in the above narrative were committed by Bhooree Khan, in the process
of converting his estate of Dewa into a jungle, and building strongholds for his gang as it
increased and became more and more formidable. Having converted Deogon into a jungle, and built
his strongholds, he would, by the usual process of violence, fraud, and collusion with local
authorities, have absorbed the small surrounding estates of his weaker neighbours, and formed
a very large one for himself. The same process, no doubt, went on in England successively under
the Saxons, Danes, and Normans; and in every country in Europe, under successive invaders and
conquerors, or as long as the baronial proprietors of the soil were too strong to be coerced
by their Sovereign as they are in Oude.

An Englishman may further ask how it is that a wretch guilty of such cruelties to men who never
wronged him, to innocent and unoffending females and children, can find, in a society where
slavery is unknown, men to assist him in inflicting them, and landholders of high rank and
large possessions to screen and shelter him when pursued by his Government. He must, for the
solution of this question, also go back to the MIDDLE AGES, in England and the other nations
of Europe, when the baronial proprietors of the soil, too strong for their sovereigns, committed
the same cruelties, found the same willing instruments in their retainers, and members of the
same class of landed proprietors, to screen, shelter, and encourage them in their iniquities.

They acquiesce in the atrocities committed by one who is in armed resistance to the Government
to-day, and aid him in his enterprises openly or secretly, because they know that they may
be in the same condition, and require the same aid from him to-morrow--that the more sturdy
the resistance made by one, the less likely will the Government officers be to rouse the resistance
of others. They do not sympathise with those who suffer from his depredations, or aid the Government
officers in protecting them, because they know that they could not support the means required
to enable them to contend successfully with their Sovereign, and reduce him to terms, without
plundering and occasionally murdering the innocent of all ages and both sexes, and that they
may have to raise the same means in a similar contest to-morrow. They are satisfied, therefore,
if they can save their own tenants from pillage and slaughter. They find, moreover, that the
sufferings of others enable them to get cultivators and useful tenants of all kinds upon their
own estates, on more easy terms, and to induce the smaller allodial or khalsa proprietors around,
to yield up their lands to them, and become their tenants with less difficulty. It was in the
same manner that the great feudal barons aggrandised themselves in England, and all the other
countries of Europe, in the MIDDLE AGES.

In Oude all these great landholders look upon the Sovereign and his officers--except when they
happen to be in collusion with them for the purpose of robbing or coercing others--as their
natural enemies, and will never trust themselves in their power without undoubted pledges of
personal security. The great feudal tenants of the Crown in England, and the other nations
of Europe, did the same, except when they were in collusion with them for the purpose of robbing
others of their rights; or fought under their banners for the purpose of robbing or destroying
the subjects and servants of some other Sovereign whom he chose to call his enemy.

Only one of these sources of union between the Sovereign and his great landholders is in operation
in Oude. Some of them are every year in collusion with the governors of districts for the purpose
of coercing and robbing others; but the Sovereign can never unite them under his banners for
the purpose of invading and plundering any other country, and thereby securing for himself
and them present glory, wealth, and high-sounding titles, and the admiration and applause of
future generations. The strong arm of the British Government is interposed between them and
all surrounding countries; and there is no safety-valve for their unquiet spirits in foreign
conquests. They can no longer do as Ram did two thousand seven hundred years ago--lead an army
from Ajodheea to Ceylone. They must either give up fighting, or fight among themselves, as
they appear to have been doing ever since Ram's time; and there are at present no signs of
a disposition to send out another "Sakya Guntama" from Lucknow, or Kapila vastee to preach
peace and good-will to "all the nations of the earth." They would much rather send out fifty
thousand more brave soldiers to fight "all the nations of the east," under the banners of the
Honourable East India Company.

An English statesman may further ask how it is that so much disorder can prevail in a small
territory like Oude without the gangs, to which it must give rise, passing over the border
to depredate upon the bordering districts of its neighbours. The conterminous districts on
three sides belong to the British Government, and that on the fourth or north belongs to Nepaul.
The leaders of these gangs know, that if the British Government chose to interpose and aid
the Oude Government with its troops, it could crush them in a few days; and that it would do
so if they ventured to rob and murder within its territory. They know, also, that it would
do the same if they ventured to cross the northern border, and rob and murder within the Nepaul
territory. They therefore confine their depredations to the Oude territory, seeing that, as
long as they do so, the British Government remains quiet.

Poorae Chowdheree, of Kuchohee, held a share in the lands of the village of Bhanpoor in Radowlee.
He mortgaged it in 1830, to a co- sharer, who transferred the mortgage to Meherban Sing, of
Guneshpoor. Poorae disliked the arrangement, and made all the cultivators desert the village
of Bhanpoor, and leave the lands waste. Meherban attacked the village of Kuchohee in consequence,
killed Porae, and seized upon all the lands of Bhanpoor for himself. Rajah Ram, one of the
ousted co-sharers in these lands, attacked and killed Meherban in 1832, and seized upon all
the lands of Bhanpoor.

After the death of his first wife, Meherban had attacked the house of Bhowanee Sing, Rajpoot,
of Teur, carried off his daughter, who had been affianced to another, and forcibly made her
his wife. By her he had one daughter and one son, named Maheput Sing, who now inherited from
his father a fifteenth part of one of the six and half shares into which the lands of Guneshpoor
were divided. He, by degrees, murdered, or drove out of the village, all his co-sharers, save
Gunbha Sing and Chungha Sing, joint proprietors of a small part of one of the shares, known
by the name of the Kunnee Puttee. From the year 1843, Maheput Sing became a robber by profession,
and the leader of a formidable gang; and in three years, by a long series of successful enterprises,
he acquired the means of converting his residence, on the border of the town of Guneshpoor,
into a strong fort, among the deep ravines of the Goomtee river. This fort he called Bhowaneegur,
after Bhowanee, the patroness of the trade of murder and robbery, which he had adopted.

I shall now mention, more circumstantially, a few of the many atrocities committed by him and
his gang, during the last few years of his career, as illustrative of the state of society
in Oude. Bulbhudder Sing, a subadar of the 45th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, resided
at Rampoor Sobeha, in the Dureeabad district. By degrees he purchased thirteen-sixteenths of
the lands of these two small villages, which adjoin each other, out of the savings from his
pay, and those of his nephew, Mugun Sing, havildar of the 43rd Regiment Bengal Native Infantry.
On his being transferred to the invalid establishment, the subadar resided with his family
in Rampoor, and in May, 1846, his nephew, Mugun Sing, came home on furlough to visit him. Gujraj,
an associate of Maheput Sing's, held the other three-sixteenths of the lands of these two villages;
and by the murder of the subadar and all his family, he thought he should be able to secure
for himself the possession of the whole estate in perpetuity. The family consisted of the subadar
and his wife,--Mugun Sing, the son of his deceased brother, Man Sing, and his wife; and his
son Bijonath and his wife,--Dwarka Sing, son of Ojagur Sing, another deceased brother of the
subadar,--Mahta Deen, the son of Chundun Sing, another deceased brother of the subadar, and
his wife and young son, Surubjeet Sing, seven years of age,--Kulotee Sing, son of Gobrae, another
deceased brother of the subadar,--Bag Sing, a relative,--Bechun Sing, a servant,--Seo Deen,
the gardener,--Jeeawun Sing, the barber, and the widow of Salwunt Sing, another son of Mugun
Sing, havildar.

When the family were all assembled, Maheput Sing, with Gujraj and other associates, and a gang
of one hundred and fifty armed followers, proceeded to the village at midnight, and carefully
reconnoitred the premises. It was, after consultation, determined to defer the attack till
daybreak, as the subadar and his nephews were known to be brave and well-armed men, who kept
watch till towards morning, and would make a desperate resistance, unless taken by surprise.
They remained concealed within the enclosure of Gujraj's house, till just before daylight,
when they quietly surrounded the subadar's house. As day dawned the subadar got up, opened
the door and walked out, as usual, to breathe the fresh air, thinking all safe. He was immediately
shot down, and on Mugun Sing's rushing out to assist his uncle, he received a shot in the eye,
and fell dead on his body. The robbers then rushed in, cut down Jeeawun, the barber, while
attempting to shut the door, and wounded Kulotee Sing,* Bag Sing, and others of the party.
Finding that they could no longer stand against the numbers, rushing in at the doors and windows,
the defenders climbed from the inside to the flat roof of the house, over the apartments of
the men, fired down upon the robbers, who were still inside, and shot one of them. The robbers,
finding they could not otherwise dislodge them, set fire to that part of the house, and the
men were obliged to leap off to save themselves. In doing this, Bag Sing hurt his spine, and
Seo Deen sprained his ankle, and both lay where they fell, pretending to be dead, till night.
The others all went off in search of succour.

[* Kulotee Sing was murdered, a few days afterwards, by Maheput and Gujraj, as he was superintending
the cultivation of his lands.]

The robbers found the boy, Surubjeet, lying sick on his bed, attended by his mother. They seized
him and dashed his head against the ground; and when he still showed signs of life, Gujraj
cut him to pieces with his sword. They then seized and stripped the females naked, and sprinkled
boiling oil over their bodies, till they pointed out all the property concealed in the house.
Seventeen hundred rupees were found buried in the floor; and the rest of the property in clothes,
gold and silver ornaments, and brass utensils, amounted to about ten thousand rupees.

About noon, while the robbers were still in the house, the Amil of Mohlara came with a large
force and one gun, and surrounded them; but stood at a safe distance, whence he kept up for
some time a fire from his gun and his matchlocks, which had no effect whatever. The robbers
fired in return from the house, merely to show that they were not to be frightened from their
booty in that way. This went on till after dark in the evening, when the robbers all retired
to the jungles with their booty, unmolested by the Amil.

Byjonath, who had brought the Amil to the spot, urged him on as much as he could to save the
property and females, and avenge the death of those who had fallen, and he killed one man and
seized another, the son of one of the leaders; but he was obliged to give him up to the Amil
as an hostage, for the recovery of the property, and a witness to the robbery. The Amil kept
him for six months, and then let him go on the largest ransom he could get for him from his
father. The circumstances were all represented, through the Resident, to the Durbar, and redress
prayed for, but none was ever obtained.*

[* When the Resident visited this place, in his tour, in January, 1850, Dwarka Sing and other
members of the family described all the circumstances of this attack, and they were taken down;
and have been confirmed since by a judicial investigation.]

In May 1846, Maheput attacked the house of Seobuksh, a gardener, and after plundering it, he
seized and carried off to the jungle the gardener's brother, Puroutee, and tortured him to
death with hot irons, because he could not raise the sum demanded for his ransom.

In August 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of Meherban Tewaree, subadar of
the Gwalior Contingent, in the village of Hareehurpoor, in the district of Rodowlee. It was
about ten at night, and the whole family were asleep. The subadar lay on his cot below, near
the door, his brother, Angud Tewaree, slept on the upper story. Some placed ladders and entered
the upper story through a window; Maheput, with others, broke open the door, near which the
subadar slept below. The brother got a sword-cut in the hand, and called out from the upper
story as loud as he could for help; but their neighbours were all too much alarmed to come
to their aid. Maheput seized and bound the subadar with his own waistband, and commanded his
brother to come down, saying, that he need not call for help, as the villagers all knew him
too well to molest him; and if he did not come down instantly he would set fire to the house.
Seeing no chance of help, he came down, and was bound with his own waistband in the same manner.
When the subadar remonstrated against this treatment, Maheput struck him over the face. They
then plundered the house of all the property it contained, to the value of six hundred and
fifty rupees; and took the subadar and his brother to the jungles; and, in the morning, demanded
a ransom of one thousand rupees. At last they came down to four hundred rupees and the horse,
which the subadar kept for his own riding. The subadar consented, and his brother was released
to get the money and horse. He borrowed the money and sent it with the horse through Bhowanee
Deen Tewaree, landholder of Ladeeka Poorwa, and the subadar was released. He presented three
petitions, through the Resident, and orders were sent from the Durbar to the local authorities,
Hurdut Sing and Monna Lal, but they were both in league with the robbers, and tried to get
the subadar made away with, to save further trouble, and he sought security with his regiment.*

[* Meherban Tewaree, subadar, was present, as a witness at the subsequent trial of Maheput
and Gujraj, who were sentenced to transportation beyond seas for life.]

In January 1847, Maheput and his gang attacked the village of Bahapoor, in the Rodowlee district;
and after plundering all the houses, seized and carried off among others Seetul, the spirit-
dealer, and the two sons of Reehta, the widow of Bhosoo, one twenty- two years of age, and
the other eighteen. They tortured them with red-hot irons, and tied bamboos round their necks
every day for fifteen days. Maheput then shot the eldest son, and cut his body to pieces with
his sword. The younger son, at night, made his escape while they were asleep, and returned
to tell the tale of his brother's murder to his mother. Seetul, the Kalwar, got his uncle to
lend him twenty-eight rupees, for which he was released.

In April 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of Ramoutar, Brahmin, of the Brahmin
village of Guneshpoor, in Rodowlee; plundered it of properly valued at one hundred rupees,
and then bound Ramoutar, his father and two sons, and took them off to the jungles; and there
tortured them all for seven days. He then had the two boys, one nine years old and the other
five, suspended to a tree and flogged; and Ramoutar himself tied to a thorny tree and beaten
till the blood flowed down and drenched his waistband, because he could pay nothing, and would
not sign a bond to pay two thousand rupees. His sufferings and the sight of those of his two
sons made him at last sign one for one thousand rupees. He was flogged again till his friends
brought four hundred out of the thousand, and Cheyt Sing, Thakoor, a respectable landholder
of Koleea, in Rodowlee, consented to give security for the payment of two hundred and forty-two
rupees more. Ramoutar and his family were then released, after they had been confined and tortured
for thirty-six days, and they went off and resided at Bookcheyna in Khundasa. A year after
his house was there attacked by Maheput Sing and his gang, and plundered of all it contained;
and his brother Seetul, and his youngest son were seized and taken off to his fort at Bhowaneegur,
and there tortured and starved for six months. Ramoutar then borrowed one hundred and sixty
rupees, and obtained the release of his brother Seetul, and a year after he was able to raise
forty-seven rupees more, with which he ransomed his son.

In May 1847, Maheput Sing attacked the house of Seolal Tewaree of Torsompoor, in Rodowlee,
at midnight; and after plundering it and stripping his mother and wife, and the wife of his
brother, Jurbundun Sing, of all the clothes and ornaments they had, he bound and carried off
to the jungle the two brothers, Seolal and Jurbundun. They were flogged, and had hot irons
applied to their bodies every day for twenty days, and had only a little flour to eat and water
to drink, once in three days. After twenty days they contrived to make their escape one dark
and stormy night, and got home; but three days after he again attacked their house and burnt
it to the ground, with all they possessed. He, at the same time, burnt down the house of their
uncle, in the same village, and that of one of their ploughmen; and two cows and one bullock
were burnt to death in the flames.

In July 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of Chubbee Lal, Brahmin, in the
village of Bunnee, in the Rodowlee district, and after plundering it of property to the value
of five hundred rupees, he bound and took the old Brahmin off to the jungles, and demanded
from him a ransom of eight thousand rupees. This sum the old man could not pay, and he was
flogged with thorns, and had red-hot irons applied to his body every day. Maheput then sent
a letter to the old man's son, Dwarka, desiring him to send the eight thousand rupees if he
wished his father to live. The house having been plundered, the family had nothing left, and
could persuade no one to lend them. On receiving a reply to this effect, Maheput had the old
man's body plastered all over with moist gunpowder, and made him stand in the sun till it was
dry. He then set fire to the powder, and the poor man was burnt all over. He then cut off both
his hands at the wrists, and his nose, and sent them to his family, and in this condition be
afterwards sent the poor man to his home upon a cot. The son met his father at the door, but
the old man died as soon as his son had embraced him.

Maheput carried off Pem, the son of Teeka, at the same time, and tortured him till his family
paid the ransom demanded. He was witness to the tortures of the old Brahmin.

In August 1847, Maheput and his gang attacked the house of Bichook, a Brahmin, in the village
of Torsompoor, in Rodowlee, at midnight, while he was sleeping, and bound and carried him off
to the jungle. The next day, when he was about to have him tortured for a ransom, one of his
followers interceded for him, and he was released. But a month after, Maheput and his gang
again attacked his house, and after plundering it of all it contained, they burnt it to the
ground. Bichook had run off on hearing their approach, and he escaped to Syudpoor.

In November, 1846, Maheput Sing attacked the house of Sook Allee, in Guneshpoor, at midnight,
with a gang of one hundred men; and, after plundering it of all the property it contained,
to the amount of four hundred rupees, he burnt it to the ground, and bound and carried off
Sook Allee to the house of his friend, Byjonath Bilwar, a landholder in the village of Kholee,
eight miles distant. He there demanded a ransom of five hundred rupees; and on his declaring
that he neither had nor could borrow such a sum, he had him tortured with hot irons, and flogged
in the usual way. He kept him for two months at Kholee, and then took him to Tukra, in the
Soorajpoor purgunnah, where he kept him for another month, torturing, and giving him half a
meal every other day. At the end of three months, Akber Sing and Bhowanee Deen, Rajpoot landholders
of Odemow, contrived to borrow two hundred rupees for Sook Allee, and he was released on the
payment of this sum. The marks of the hot irons, applied to his body by Maheput Sing, with
his own hands, are still visible, and will remain so as long as he lives.*

[* I saw these marks on the sufferer.]

About the same time--the latter end of 1846--Maheput Sing sent to Sheik Sobratee, of the same
place, a message through a pausee, named Bhowanee Deen, demanding twenty-five rupees. This
sum was sent; but six weeks had not elapsed, before Sheik Sobratee received another demand
for the same amount, through the same person. He had no money, but promised to send the sum
in ten days. At midnight, on the fourth day after this, Maheput and his gang attacked his house,
and plundered it of all they could find, female ornaments, and clothes, and brass utensils.
Sobratee was that night sleeping at the house of his friend Peree, the wood-dealer, in the
same town. Maheput tried to make his mother and wife point out where he was, by torturing them,
but they either would not or could not do so. After some search, however, they discovered him,
and bound and took him off, with handcuffs, and an iron collar round his neck, to the Kurseea
jungle, in the Hydergur pergunnah. His son, a boy, had escaped. After torturing him in the
usual way for eight days, they sent a message to his mother by Maheput's servant, Salar, to
say, that unless she sent a ransom of five hundred rupees, her son's nose and hands should
be cut off and sent to her as those of Chubbee Lal, Brahmin, of Bunnee, had been. She prevailed
upon Baroonath Gotum to lend the money; and Maheput sent Sobratee to him, accompanied by one
of his armed retainers, with orders to make him over to the Gotum, if he pledged himself in
due form to pay. He did so, and Sobratee was made over to him, and the next day sent home to
his wife and mother. Some months after, however, when he had completed his fort of Bhowneegur,
Maheput sent to demand two hundred rupees more from Sobratee, and when he found he could not
pay, he had his house pulled, down, and took away all the materials to his fort. What he did
not require he caused to be burnt. He got from Sobratee, in ransom and plunder, more than three
thousand rupees; and he has been ever since reduced to great poverty and distress.

In November 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang seized and carried off Khosal, a confectioner,
of Talgon, in Rodowlee, who had gone to his sister at Buhapoor, near Guneshpoor, to attend
a marriage--took him to the jungle, and tortured and starved him in the usual way for five
weeks. He had him burnt with red-hot irons, flogged and ducked in a tank every day, and demanded
a ransom of two hundred rupees. At last, his brother, Davey Deen, borrowed thirty-three rupees
from Rambuksh, a merchant of Odermow, and offered to pay it for his ransom. Maheput sent Khosal,
with his agent, Bhowanee Deen, to Rambuksh, and he released him on getting the money. He still
bears on his body the marks of the stripes and burnings.*

[* These marks I have seen.]

In December 1847, Maheput and his gang attacked the house of Motee Lal Misser, a Brahmin, in
the village of------, and after robbing it of all that it contained, he seized and carried
off his nephew, Ram Deen, a boy of seven years of age, and tortured him for a month in the
jungle. He then cut off his left ear and the forefinger of his right hand, and sent them to
the uncle in a letter, stating, that if he did not send him one thousand rupees, he would send
the boy's head in the same manner. The boy's father had died, and his uncle, with great difficulty,
prevailed upon his friends and neighbours to lend him two hundred and twenty rupees, which
he sent to Maheput, and his nephew was released. The boy declares to me that Maheput cut off
his ear and finger with his own hands.*

[* This boy was present, as a witness, at the trial of Maheput.]

In June 1848, Forsut Pandee, of Resalpandee-ka-Poorwa, in Rodowlee, accompanied Girwar Sing,
a Rajpoot of Bowra, in Rodowlee, to Guneshpoor, on some business. They were smoking and talking
together at the house of Mungul Sing, Thakoor, a large landholder of that place, when five
of Maheput's armed men came up, and told Forsut Pandee to attend them to their master. Girwar
Sing remonstrated and declared that his honour had been pledged for Forsut Pandee's personal
safety. Mungul Sing, Thakoor, however, told him, that he must offer no opposition, as they
seized all travellers who came that way, and it was dangerous to oppose them. He was taken
to Maheput Sing, in his fort at Bhowaneegur, situated half a mile from Guneshpoor. Maheput
told him that he had heard of his having a good flint gun, and a shawl in his house, and that
he must have them. Forsut Pandee swore on the Ganges that he had no such things. He then had
him tied up to a tree and flogged him with his own hands with thorny bushes, the scars of which
are still visible. He then demanded a ransom of three hundred rupees, and had him flogged and
tortured every day for a month, while he gave him to eat only half a pound of flour every two
or three days. The prisoner's brother, Bhoree Pandee, sold all the clothes and ornaments of
his family, utensils, and furniture, and their hereditary mango and mhowa grove, and raised
two hundred and six rupees, which he sent to Maheput, through Baldan Sing, a landholder of
Bharatpoor, two miles from Guneshpoor. On the receipt of this Forsut Pandee was released.

In October 1848, Maheput Sing sent ten of his gang to seize a cultivator, by name Khosal, who
was engaged in cultivating his land in a hamlet, one mile south of the town of Syudpoor. They
seized and bound him and took him off to their leader, Maheput, who had him tortured for a
month in the usual way. He had him tied up to a ladder and flogged. He had red-hot irons applied
to different parts of his body--he put dry combustibles on the open palms of his hands and
set fire to them, so that he has lost the use of his fingers for life. For the whole month
he gave him only ten pounds of flour to eat; but his friends contrived to convey a little more
to him occasionally, which he ate by stealth. He was reduced, by hunger and torture, to the
last stage, when his family, by the sale of all they had in the world, and the compassion of
their friends, raised the sum of one hundred and twenty-six rupees, which they sent to Maheput,
by Thakoor Persaud, a landholder of the village of Somba, and obtained his release. The tortures
have rendered him a cripple, and the family are reduced to a state of great wretchedness.*

[* This man was a witness at the trial of Maheput, and I saw the signs of his sufferings.]

The village of Guneshpoor yielded a revenue to Government of twenty- one thousand rupees a-year,
and was divided into six and half shares each, held by a different person. One belonged to
Omrow Sing, Rajpoot, the father of Hunmunt Sing, a corporal in the 44th Regiment Bengal Native
Infantry, and descended to Omrow Sing's eldest son, Davey Sing. One share was held, jointly,
by Maheput Sing and Chotee Sing, when, in October 1848, Maheput assembled a gang of about two
hundred men, and attacked the house of Davey Sing, while his brother Hunmunt Sing was at home
on recruiting service. There were in the house the corporal and his three brothers, and all
mounted, with their friends, to the top of the house, with their swords and spears, but without
fire-arms. The robbers, unable to ascend from the outside, broke open the doors, but the brothers
descended and defended the passage so resolutely, that the gang was obliged to retire and watch
for a better opportunity.

Three months after, in January 1849, Maheput attacked the house again, with a gang of five
hundred men and good scaling-ladders. Some ascended to the top on the ladders, while others
broke open the doors and forced their way in. The brothers and the other male members of the
family defended themselves resolutely. One of the brothers, Esuree Sing, his uncle, Runjeet
Sing, sipahee of the 11th Regiment Bengal Native Infantry, his cousin, Beetul Sing, sipahee
of the 8th Regiment Bombay Native Infantry, were all killed, and hacked to pieces by Maheput
and his gang. No person came to the assistance of the family, and the robbers retired with
their booty, consisting of five hundred and ten rupees in money, four muskets, and four swords,
and twelve hundred maunds of corn, and all the clothes, ornaments, and utensils that could
be found. They burnt down the house, and dispossessed the family of their share in the estate,
and plundered all the cultivators. Davey Sine the eldest brother, went to reside at Bhanpoor,
in the neighbourhood. While he was engaged in cutting a field of pulse, in the morning, about
seven o'clock, in the month of March following, Maheput Sing, with a gang of two hundred men,
attacked his house, killed his two brothers, Gordut and Hurdut Sing, and their servant, Omed,
and shot down his nephew, Gorbuksh Sing. Ramsahae, the nephew of Maheput Sing, ran up to despatch
him with his sword, but Gorbuksh rose, cut him down, and killed him with his sword before he
himself expired.

The corporal, Hunmunt Sing, of the 44th Native Infantry, described all these things in several
petitions to the Resident, and prayed redress, but no redress was ever obtained. Saligram and
other relatives of the corporal had been plundered and wounded by Maheput Sing and his gang,
and he describes many other atrocities committed by the same gang. His petition of the 27th
September 1849, was sent to the King by the Resident, who was told, that the Amil of the district
of Dureeabad, Girdhara Lal, had been ordered to seize Maheput Sing and his gang. This Amil
was always in league with them.

In December 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of a female, named Arganee,
the widow of Sheik Rozae, in the village of Pertab Pahae. It was midnight, and she was sleeping
with her two grandchildren, the sons of her son, who was a sipahee in the 66th Regiment of
Bengal Native Infantry. They bound her hands: and leaving her young grandchildren alone, took
her off to the jungle eight miles distant. There Maheput demanded from her the seven hundred
rupees which she was said to have accumulated; and when she pleaded poverty, and said that
the sipahee's pay was their only means of subsistence, he had her stripped naked and flogged
in the usual way. For a month he had her stripped and flogged in the same manner every day.
She then signed a bond to pay one hundred rupees on a certain day, and was released. She sold
all she had, and borrowed all she could, and on the fourth day sent him fifty, and the other
fifty on the fifteenth day; but he afterwards had the poor widow's house pulled down and all
the wood-work carried to his fort of Bhowaneegur.

In April 1849, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of Seodeen Misser, sipahee of the
63rd Regiment Bengal Native Infantry; and after plundering it, seized and carried off to the
jungle his brother and that brother's two sons--one seven years of age and the other five--and
his sister. He sold the two boys as slaves for two hundred rupees to a person named Davey Sookul,
of Guneshpoor; and tortured the brother and sister till the sipahee and his friends sold all
they had in the world for their ransom, when he released them.

In the month of May 1849, Maheput Sing and his gang at midnight attacked the house of Eseree
Sing, a Rajpoot of the Chouhan tribe, in the village of Salpoor, in Dureeabad; and after stripping
his mother and all the other females of the family of their clothes and ornaments, plundering
the house of all it contained, rupees, twenty- five in money, two handsome matchlocks, two
swords, two spears, and two shields, and brass utensils, weighing one hundred and sixty pounds,
he bound Eseree Sing himself, and took him off with his sister, four years of age, and his
daughter, only three, to a jungle, four miles distant. He there released Eseree Sing himself,
but took on the girls, and made over his daughter to Akber, one of his followers, and his sister
to Bechoo, another of his gang, to be united to them in marriage. It was at their instigation,
and for that purpose chiefly, that he made the attack.*

[* Akber and Bechoo are now in prison, with Maheput, at Lucknow.]

In August 1849, Maheput and his gang attacked the houses of Seetul, Gorbuksh, and Sook Lal,
Brahmins, of Guneshpoor; and after plundering them, he carried off Gorbuksh and his son, Ram
Deen, and Bhowanee, the son of Seetul, and Sook Lal, and murdered them. He carried off and
tortured, in a shocking manner, Benee, of the same place, till he paid a ransom; and Ongud,
son of Khunmun, an invalid Khalasie, of the 26th Regiment Native Infantry.

In September 1849, Maheput attacked and plundered the house of Ongud Sing, sipahee of the 24th
Regiment Bengal Native Infantry, and confined the sipahee for some time. His petition was sent
to the King on the 11th November 1849.

On the 15th of December 1849, Monowur Khan, havildar of the 62nd Regiment Bengal Native Infantry,
complained that Maheput Sing had seized him as he was walking on the high road, and extorted
eleven rupees from him. His petition was sent to the King, with a request, that all local authorities
might be urged to aid in his arrest; and orders were again sent to the Frontier Police.

On the 24th December 1849, Madho Sing, sipahee of the 11th Regiment Bengal Native Infantry,
complained that Maheput Sing had attacked and plundered his house twice, burnt it down, and
cut down all the trees which the family had planted for generations, and turned them all out
of the village--that in the second attack he had murdered his daughter, a girl of only nine
years of age. His petition was sent to the King, who, on the 13th of February 1850, replied
that he had proclaimed Maheput as a robber and murderer, and offered a reward of three thousand
rupees for his arrest.

On the 16th of March 1850, Goverdhun complained, that Maheput had attacked and plundered his
house, and carried off his father to the jungles, and extorted from him a ransom of one hundred
and ten rupees. His petition was sent to the King, who, on the 27th March, replied, that he
had given frequent and urgent orders for the arrest of Maheput Sing.

Gunga Deen, a trooper of the Governor-General's body-guard, complained to the Resident, on
the 9th of August 1844, that Maheput Sing had attacked and killed with his own hand his agent,
Thakoor Sing, while he was taking seven hundred and seventy-four rupees to the revenue-collector.
On the 11th of September 1849, he again complained to the Resident, that Maheput Sing had plundered
Bhurteemow and other villages, in Dureeabad, of property to the value of six thousand seven
hundred and fifty-nine rupees, and murdered five men, besides Thakoor Sing, his servant, and
had committed numerous robberies in other villages during the year 1848. Among them one in
Bhurteemow, in which he killed Ramjeet and four other men-- that he had soon after committed
a robbery in which no less than twenty-two persons were killed and wounded, and property to
the value of two thousand rupees was carried off. The King was frequently pressed most earnestly
to arrest this atrocious robber; and on the 9th of December 1849, the Frontier Police was,
at the Kings request, directed to do all in their power to seize him.

In July 1847, Maheput Sing and his gang attacked the house of Mungul Sookul, a corporal of
the 24th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, at midnight, robbed it of property to the value
of five hundred rupees, and so rent the ears of his little son, by the violence with which
he tore the gold rings from them, that the boy was not likely to live. The commanding officer
of the regiment sent the corporal's petition for redress, through the Resident, to the Durbar;
and orders were sent to the local authorities to afford it, but they were unable or unwilling
to do anything.

Gunga Aheer, of Buroulee, in the district of Rodowlee, had been for three years a sipahee in
the 48th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, under the name of Mata Deen. Continued sickness
rendered him unfit for duty, and he obtained his discharge, and came home to his family. In
March 1850, having been long without employment, and reduced, with his family, to great distress,
he went to his relation, Ramdhun, of the Intelligence Department, in the service of the King
of Oude, and then; on duty at Dureeabad, with the Amil. A reward of three thousand rupees having
been offered by the King for the arrest of Maheput Sing, the Amil ordered Ramdhun to try his
best to trace him out, and he took Gunga Aheer with him to assist, on a promise of securing
for him good service if they succeeded. They went to a jungle, about two miles from Guneshpoor,
and near the foot of Bhowaneegur. While they were resting at a temple in the jungle, sacred
to Davey, Maheput came up, with twenty followers, to offer sacrifice; and as soon as they recognized
the Harkara, Ramdhun, they seized both, and took them off in the evening to a jungle, four
miles distant. In the hope of frightening Maheput, the Harkara pretended to be in the service
of the Resident at Lucknow; but as the reward for his arrest had been offered on the requisition
of the Resident, on the application of injured sipahees of the British army, this did not avail
him. Their hands were tied behind their backs, and as soon as it became dark, they took Ramdhun
off to a distance of twenty paces from where Maheput Sing sat, and made him stand in a circle
of men with drawn swords. One man advanced, and at one cut with his sword, severed his right
arm from his body, and it fell to the ground. Another cut into the side, under the stump, while
a third cut him across the left side of the neck with a back cut, he all the time calling out
for mercy, but in vain. On receiving the cut across the neck he fell dead, and the body was
flung into the river Goomtee. Maheput sat looking on without saying a word.

They then amused themselves for some time by flogging Gunga Aheer with thorn bushes, while
he in agony cried for mercy. The next day, by Maheput's orders, they laid him upon a bed of
thorns and beat him again, while he screamed from pain, and they laughed at his cries. One
of the followers told Maheput, that they had been cautioned by the outlaw, Jugurnath, the chuprassie,
not to murder Ramdhun and his companion, or the English would some day avenge them; but he
laughed and said that spies must be punished, to deter others from pursuing them. One of his
followers then sat on Gunga's chest while another held his arms, and a third his legs, while
a fourth cut off his nose, and one of his hands at the wrist, and the fingers of the other
hand. He became senseless, and Maheput and his followers all left him in this state. In the
evening a servant of Seochurn Chowdheree, of Bhowaneepoor, on his way to the jungle, saw him
and reported his condition to his master, who sent people and had him taken to him on a litter.
He had his wounds dressed by a village surgeon, and the next day sent him home to his wife
and mother. The landlord of the village reported the case to Captain Orr, of the Frontier Police,
at Fyzabad, who had Gunga taken off to the hospital at Lucknow, where he remained under the
care of the Residency surgeon till he recovered. This poor man had to support his mother, wife,
and daughter by his labour. His mother came in with him, and attended him in hospital, while
his wife and child remained at their village.

While in hospital recovering, Maheput Sing was brought before him, by the Frontier Police,
to be recognized. As soon as he saw him all the terrible scene of Ramdhun's murder and his
own torture came so vividly before him, that he trembled from head to foot, like a man in an
ague fit, and was for some time unable to speak. At last, when he saw the fetters on Maheput's
legs, and the handcuffs on his wrists, and armed Government servants around him, he recovered
his senses; and by degrees, recorded what he had witnessed and suffered at his hands.

On the 25th March 1850, Rajah Maun Sing, under orders from the Durbar, with all the force he
could muster, invested the fort of Bhowaneegur, while the force under Captains Weston, Thomas,
Bunbury, and Magness, attacked the three forts belonging to Rajah Prethee Put, of Paska. Maheput
Sing left the fort on the 27th, with eleven followers, to collect reinforcements and harass
the besiegers, and the garrison was commanded by his nephew.

On the 28th, Maun Sing had three men killed and several wounded, from the fire of the garrison,
and wrote for reinforcements to Captain Weston, who was at Dureeabad, twelve miles distant.
As soon as he got the letter, he mounted his horse, and leaving the force to follow, rode with
his Assistant, Captain Orr, to the place, which is half a mile from Guneshpoor south, and two
hundred yards from the left bank of the Goomtee river north. They were attended by a few sowars,
under Seo Sing, and they reached the place before daybreak, on the 29th; and as soon as day
appeared, proceeded with Captain Magness, who had galloped on in advance of his regiment to
reconnoitre the fort, and were fired upon by the garrison wherever they were seen. Maun Sing's
people had retired after the loss of a few men, to the distance of a mile, and lay scattered
over the jungle.

The Infantry came up before sunset, and the guns before it grew dark, and all were placed in
position, and a fire opened upon the fort till it grew too dark to point the guns. The garrison
soon after attempted to escape by the west side, and were fired upon by the parties posted
on that quarter. Captain Weston, hearing the fire, collected all the men he could, and getting
with difficulty into the fort, found it empty. In the attempt to cut their way through, the
garrison had two men killed and fifteen wounded and taken, and five managed to escape, under
cover of the night, into the thick jungle. Bikhai, one of the most atrocious of Maheput's followers,
was killed; but he killed two of the besiegers, and wounded two more before he fell. Akber
Sing, the most atrocious of all the gang, had his arm taken off by a cannon-shot, and was seized.
Maheput's nephew, the commandant of the garrison, was taken, with one of Maheput's secretaries
and advisers.

Of Maun Sing's party, four were killed and thirteen wounded, and Captain Magness had one havildar
severely wounded. The fort was levelled, and the jungle around cut down. The force then proceeded
and took possession of the forts of Futtehpoor, Oskamow, Sorrea, Dyeepoor, and Etonja, all
belonging to Jugurnath Chuprassie, another leader of banditti of that district They were only
a few miles distant from Bhowaneegur, and were deserted by his gangs on their seeing a British
force and hearing the guns open upon Bhowaneegur. Two hundred head of stolen cattle were found
in the forts of Jugurnath, and restored to their proper owners. Parties were sent in pursuit
of Maheput Sing, and two of his followers were secured; but he himself escaped for the time.
The forts were all destroyed. Captain Orr, the Assistant Superintendent, in charge of the Frontier
Police at Fyzabad, had been long in pursuit of Maheput Sing, and his parties, knowing all his
haunts and associates, gave him no rest. His subadar, Seetul Sing, became acquainted with Prethee
Paul, tallookdar of Ramnuggur, who had been deprived of his estate for defalcation, and become
associated with Maheput Sing. The subadar persuaded this landholder that it would be to his
advantage to aid in the arrest of so atrocious a robber and murderer; and when Maheput next
came to him to seek some repose from his pursuers, and consult about future plans, he sent
intimation to Seetul Sing, whose detachment of sipahees was at no great distance. On receiving
the intimation, the subadar marched forthwith, and reached the place at the dawn of day, on
the morning of the 1st of July 1850. Maheput Sing had just left the house to perform his ablutions,
but on seeing them, he suspected their designs and re-entered the house. The subadar's party
saw him, immediately surrounded the house, and demanded his surrender, Maheput Sing begged
Prethee Paul to join him in defending the house or cutting their way through; but Prethee Paul
told him that he had ruined himself by his atrocities, and must now submit to his fate, since
he could not involve himself and all his family in ruin merely to assist him. Prethee Paul
then took him by the arm, brought him out, and made him over to Seetul Sing, who had threatened
to set fire to the house, forthwith unless he did so. He was then secured and taken off, well
guarded, and in all possible haste, to Captain Orr, lest his gang might collect and attempt
a rescue. Captain Orr sent him off, under a strong guard and well fettered, to Lucknow, to
Captain Weston, the Superintendent of the Frontier Police.

Prethee Paul, the tallookdar, for the good service, got back his estate from the Oude sovereign,
and an addition of five hundred rupees a-year to his nankar or personal allowance. Gunga Aheer
is now a pensioner on the Residency fund, and his family has been provided for. Maheput Sing
and his associate Gujraj were sentenced to transportation beyond seas, and sent off in October
1851.

It is remarked by the people, that few of these baronial robbers ever die natural deaths--that
they either kill each other, or are killed sooner or later by the servants of Government. More
atrocious crimes than those which they every month commit it is difficult to conceive. In the
Bangor district, through which we passed last month, this class of landholders are certainly
as strong and as much disposed to withhold the just dues of Government, and to resist its officers
and troops, as they are here, but they do not plunder and burn down each other's villages,
and murder and rob each other's tenants so often as they do here. The coalition has introduced
among them a kind of balance of power, which makes them respect each other's rights, and the
rights of each other's tenants, for the chiefs are dependent upon the attachment and fidelity
of their respective tenants. The above list contains only a part of the leaders of gangs, by
which the districts of Dureeabad, Rodowlee, Sidhore, Pertabgunge, Deva, and Jehangeerabad,
are infested. We have seen no manufacture of any exportable commodity in Oude, nor have we
seen traffic on any road in Oude, save that leading from Cawnpore to Lucknow.

In consequence of some bad seasons, a good deal of the grain required at the Capital, and in
the districts to the north-cast, comes from Cawnpore over this road. Were the road from Fyzabad
to Lucknow good and safe, a good deal of land produce would, in ordinary seasons, come over
it from the Goruckpoor district, and those intervening between Lucknow and Fyzabad. It would,
however, be useless to make the road till the gangs which infest it are put down. A good and
secure road from Lucknow through Sultanpoor to Benares, would be of still greater advantage.

February 25, 1850.--Halted at Dureeabad. I here saw the draft- bullocks attached to the guns,
with Captain Orr's companies of Frontier Police. They are of the best kind, and in excellent
condition. They have the same allowance of a seer and half of grain a-day, which is drawn for
every bullock attached to his Majesty's artillery. The difference is that they get all that
is paid for in their name, while the others get one-third; and really got none when on detached
duty till lately. On Fridays, Captain Orr's bullocks get only half; and this is, I believe,
the rule with all the others that get any at all. His bullocks are bred in the Nanpara, Nigasun,
Dhorehra, and other districts in the Oude Tarae, and are of an excellent quality for work.
They cost from 40 to 75 rupees a-pair. In these districts of the Tarae forest, the cows are
allowed to go almost wild in large grass preserves, where they are defended from tigers; and
the calves are taken from them, when a year old, to be taken care of at home, till sold for
the dairy or for work. Captain Orr's bullocks have no grazing-ground, nor are they sent out
at all to graze--they get nothing but bhoosa (chaff) and corn. Of bhoosa they get as much as
they can eat, when on detached duty, as they take it from the peasantry without payment; but
when at Lucknow, they are limited to a very small quantity, as Government has to pay for it.
On the 15th of May, 1833, the King prohibited any one from taking bhoosa without paying for
it, either for private or public cattle; and directed that bhoosa, for all the Artillery bullocks,
should be purchased at the harvests, and charged for in the public accounts; but the order
was disregarded like that against the murder of female children.

February 26, 1850--Sidhore, sixteen miles, W.S.W. The country, a plain, covered as usual with
spring crops and fine foliage; but intersected midway by the little river Kuleeanee, which
causes undulations on each side. The soil chiefly doomut and light, but fertile. It abounds
more in white ants than such light soil generally does. We passed through the estate of Soorujpoor
Behreylee, in which so many of the baronial robbers above described reside, and through many
villages beyond it, which they had lately robbed and burnt down, as far as such villages can
be burnt. The mud-walls and coverings are as good as bomb-proofs against the fire, to which
they are always exposed from these robbers. Only twenty days ago, Chundee Behraleea and his
party attacked the village of Siswae, through which we passed a few miles from this--plundered
it, and killed three persons, and six others perished in the flames. They served several others
in the neighbourhood in the same manner; and have, within the same time, attacked and plundered
the town of Sidhore itself several times.

The boundary which separates the Dureeabad from the Sidhore district we passed some four miles
back; and the greater part of the villages lately attacked are situated in the latter, which
is under a separate Amil, Aga Ahmud, who is, in consequence, unable to collect his revenue.
The Amil of Dureeabad, Girdhara Sing,* on the contrary, acquiesces in all the atrocities committed
by these robbers, and is, in consequence, able to collect his revenue, and secure the favour
of the Court. Some of the villages of the estate, held by the widow of Singjoo, late Rajah
of Soorujpoor, are under the jurisdiction of the Sidhore Amil; and, as she would pay no revenue,
the Amil took a force a few days ago to her twelve villages of Sonowlee, within the Dureeabad
district, and seized and carried off some three hundred of her tenants, men, women, and children,
as hostages for the payment of the balance due, and confined them pell-mell, in a fort. The
clamour of the rest of the population as I passed was terrible, all declaring that they had
paid their rents to the Ranee, and that she alone ought to be held responsible. She, however,
resided at Soorujpoor, within the jurisdiction, and under the protection of the Amil of Dureeabad.

[* Girdhara Sing's patron is Chundee Sahaee, the minister's deputy, whose influence is paramount
at present.]

The Behraleea gangs have lately plundered the five villages of Sadutpoor, Luloopoor, Bilkhundee,
and Subahpoor, belonging to Soorujbulee, the head Canoongo, or Chowdheree of Dureeabad, who
had never offended them. Both the Amils were with me for the latter part of the road; and the
dispute between them ran very high. It was clear, however, that Girdhara Sing was strong in
his league with the robbers, and conscious of being able to maintain his ground at Court; and
Aga Ahmud was weak in his efforts to put them down, and conscious of his being unable much
longer to pay what was required, and keep his post. He has with him two Companies of Nujeebs
and two of Telingas, and eight guns. The guns are useless and without ammunition, or stores
of any kind; and the Nujeebs and Telingas cannot be depended upon. The best pay master has
certainly the best chance. It is humiliating and distressing to see a whole people suffering
such wrongs as are every day inflicted upon the village communities and town's people of Dureeabad,
Rodowlee, Sidhore, and Dewa, by these merciless freebooters; and impossible not to feel indignant
at a Government that regards them with so much indifference.*

[* Poor Aga Ahmud was put into gaol, for defalcation, at the end of the season; but Girdhara
Sing was received with great favour by the Court. The government of the district, for the next
season, was confirmed, and the usual dress of honour was conferred upon him, but the Resident
deemed it to be his duty to interpose and insist upon his not being sent out. The government
of the district was, in consequence, taken from him, and made over to Rajah Maun Sing.]

A respectable young agricultural capitalist from Biswa, Seetaram, rode along by my side this
morning, and I asked him, "over whom these suttee tombs, near Biswa, and other towns were for
the most part raised."--"Sir," said he, "they are chiefly over the widows of Brahmins, bankers,
merchants, Hindoo public officers, tradesmen, and shopkeepers." "Are there many such tombs
in Oude, over the widows of Rajpoot landholders?"--"I have not seen any, sir, and have rarely
heard of the widow of a Rajpoot landholder burning herself." "No, sir," said Bukhtawar Sing,
"how should such women be worthy to become suttees? They dare not become suttees, sir, with
the murder of so many innocent children on their heads. Sir, we Brahmins and other respectable
Hindoos feel honoured in having daughters; and never feel secure of a happy life hereafter
till we see them respectably married. This, sir, is a duty the Deity demands from us, and the
neglect of which we do not believe he can ever excuse. When the bridegroom comes sir, to fetch
our daughter, the priest reads over the marriage-service, and the parents of the girl wash
her feet and those of her bridegroom; and, as they sit together after the ceremonies, put into
her arms a tray of gold and silver jewels, and rich clothes, such as their condition in life
enables them to provide; and then invoke the blessing of God upon their union; and then, and
not till then, do they feel that they have done their duty to their child. What can men and
women, who murder their daughters as soon as they are born, ever hope for in this life or in
a future state? What can widows, conscious of such crimes, expect from ascending the funeral
pile, with the bodies of their deceased husbands who have caused them to commit such crimes?"
"And you think that there really is merit in such sacrifices on the part of widows, who have
done their duties in this life?"--"Assuredly I do, sir; if there were none, why should God
render them go insensible to the pain of burning? I have seen many widows burn themselves in
my time, and watched them from the time they first declared their intention to their death;
and they all seemed to me to feel nothing whatever from the flames: nothing, sir, but support
from above could sustain them through such trials. Depend upon it, sir, that no widow of a
Rajpoot murderer of his own offspring would ever be so supported; they knew very well that
they would not be so; and, therefore, very wisely never ventured to expose themselves to the
trial: faithful wives and good mothers only could so venture. The Rajpoots, sir, and their
wives were pleased at the prohibition, because others could no longer do what they dared not
do!" "What do you think, Seetarum?"--"I think, sir, that this crime of infanticide had its
origin solely in family pride, which will make people do almost anything. These proud Rajpoots
did not like to put it into any man's power to call them salahs or sussoors,* (brothers-in-law
or fathers-in-law).

[* These are terms of abuse all over India. To call a man sussoor or salah, in abuse, is to
say to him, I have dishonoured your daughter or your sister!]

"I remember an instance of a woman burning herself at Lasoora, six miles from Biswa, when I
was fifteen years of age, and I am now twenty-five. She certainly seemed to suffer no pain.
One forenoon she told her husband that in a former birth she had promised him that when he
should be born a maha brahman at Biswa, she would unite herself in marriage to him, and live
with him as his wife for twelve years; that these twelve years had now expired, and that she
had that night received intimation from Heaven that her real husband, Rajah Kirpah Shunker,
of Muthura, had died without having been married in this birth; that she was in reality his
wife, and had already burnt herself five times with his body, and would now mix her ashes with
his for the sixth time, and he must forthwith send her to the village of Lasoora, where she
would become a suttee. The husband was astounded, for they had always lived together on the
best possible terms, and out of the four children they had had two still survived. He and all
their relations did all they could to dissuade her, but she disregarded them, and ran off to
the Sewala (temple) in Biswa, which was built by my father. Thence she sent a Brahmin, by name
Gokurn, to call me and my elder brother, Morlee Munohur, then seventeen years of age. We went,
and she told us that she had been our mother in a former birth, and wished to see us once more
before she died; she blessed us, and prayed that we might have each five sons, and then told
us to arrange for her funeral pile at Lasoora, as all her former five suttees had been performed
at that place.

"We thought she was delirious, and no one supposed that she would really burn herself. She,
however, left the temple and proceeded towards Lasoora on foot, followed by a party of women
and children, and by her husband, who continued to implore her to return home with him. He
had a litter with him to take her, but she would not listen to him or to any one else. We reached
Lasoora about an hour and a half before sunset, and she ordered the people to collect a large
pile of wood for her, and told them that she would light it with a flame from her own mouth.
They seemed to regard her as an inspired person, and did so. She mounted the pile, and it soon
took fire, how I know not! Many people said they saw the flame come from her month, and all
seemed to believe that it did so. The flames ascended, for it was in the month of March, and
the wood was dry, and she seemed to be quite happy as she sat in the midst of them, and was
burnt to death. Her husband told us, that she had lost one son some years before, and another
only four days before she burnt herself, and that she had been much afflicted at his death.
Whether there really had been such a person as Rajah Kirpah Shunker, no one ever thought it
necessary to inquire. Her suttee tomb still stands at Lasoora among many others. Our mother
was alive, though our father had been dead many years, and she used to say that the poor woman
must have become deranged at the death of her child. The people all believed that she told
the truth, and the husband was obliged to yield, though he seemed much afflicted. Her two sons
still live, and reside at Biswa." *

[* Moorlee Monowur, a very respectable agricultural capitalist, tells me, that all that his
younger brother, Seetaram, told me, about the suttee, if strictly true, and can be proved by
a reference to the poor woman's husband and sons, who still survive, and to the people of Bilwa
and Lasoora.]

I asked the Amil, "How he fed, clothed, and lodged his prisoners?" He said, "We always take
them with us in our marches, secured in stocks or fetters. We cannot leave them behind, because
we have no gaols or other places to keep them in, and require all our troops to move with us.
As to food and clothing, they are obliged to provide themselves, or get their families or friends
to provide them, for Government will not let us charge anything for their subsistence and clothing
in the accounts."

"I understand that you and all other public servants who have charge of prisoners not only
make them provide themselves with food and clothing, but make them pay for lamp-oil, whether
they have a lamp burning at night or not?"--"When they require a lamp they must of course pay
for it, sir; prisoners are always a source of much anxiety to us, for if we send them to Lucknow,
they are almost sure to be let out soon, on occasions of thanksgiving, or on payment of gratuities,
and enabled to punish all who have assisted us in the arrest; and with hosts of robbers around
us, we are always in danger of an attempt to rescue them, which may cost us many lives." "If
the gaol darogahs at Lucknow had not the power to sell his prisoners, sir," said Bukhtawar
Sing, "how should he be able to pay so much as he does for his place? He is obliged to pay
five hundred rupees or more for his place, and is not sure of holding it a month after he has
bought it, so many are the candidates for a place so profitable!" "But he gets a share of the
subsistence money, paid for the prisoners from the Treasury, does he not?"--"Yes, sir; of the
four pice a-day paid for them by the King, he takes two, and sends them to beg through the
city for what more they require." "If they get more than what he thinks they require from the
public or their friends, he takes the surplus from them, I am told?"--"It is very true, sir,
I believe. Fellows, sir, who have no substantial friends, and cannot and will not beg, soon
sink under this scanty supply of food."

February 27, 1850--Sutrick, sixteen miles west, over a plain of muteear soil, tolerably well
cultivated, and very well studded with trees of the finest kinds, single, in clusters and in
groves. The mango-trees are in blossom, and promise well. The trees are said to bear only one
season out of three, but some bear in one season, and others in another, so that the market
is always supplied, though in some seasons more abundantly than in others. A cloudy sky and
easterly wind, while the trees are in blossom, are said to be very injurious. A large landholder
told me that they never took a tax upon any of the trees, not even the mhowa-trees, but the
owner could not, except upon particular occasions, dispose of one to be cut down, without the
permission of the zumeendar upon whose lands it stood. He might cut down one without his permission
for building or repairing his house, or for fuel, on any occasion of marriage in his family,
but not otherwise. A good many fine trees were, he said, destroyed by the local officers of
Government. Having no tents, they collected the roofs of houses from a neighbouring village
in hot or bad weather, cut away the branches to make rafters, and left the trunks as pillars
to support the roofs, and under this treatment they soon died. He told me that cow-dung was
cheaper for fuel than wood in this district, and consequently more commonly used in cooking;
but that they gathered cow-dung for fuel only during four months in the year, November, December,
January, and February; all that fell during the other eight months was religiously left, or
stored for manure. In the pits in which they stored it, they often threw some of the inferior
green crops of autumn, such as kodo and kotkee; but the manure most esteemed among them was
pigs' dung--this, he said, was commonly stored and sold by those who kept pigs. The best muteear
and doomut soils, which prevail in this district, are rented at two rupees a kutcha beegah,
without reference to the crop which the cultivator might take from them; and they yielded,
under good tillage, from ten to fifteen returns of the seed in wheat, barley, gram, &c. There
are two and half or three kutcha beegahs in a pucka beegah; and a pucka beegah is from 2750
to 2760 square yards.

Sutrick is celebrated for the shrine of Shouk Salar, alias Borda Baba, the father of Syud Salar,
whose shrine is at Bahraetch. This person, it is said, was the husband of the sister of Mahmood,
of Ghuznee. He is supposed to have died a natural death at this place, while leading the armies
of his sovereign against the Hindoos. His son had royal blood in his veins, and his shrine
is held to be the most sacred of the two. A large fair is held here in March, on the same days
that this fair takes place at Bahraetch. All our Hindoo camp followers paid as much reverence
to the shrine as they passed as the Mahommedans. It is a place without trade or manufactures;
but a good many respectable Mahommedan families reside in it, and have built several small
but neat mosques of burnt bricks. There is little thoroughfare in the wretched road that passes
through it.

The Hindoos worship any sign of manifested might or power, though exerted against themselves,
as they consider all might and power to be conferred by the Deity for some useful purpose,
however much that purpose may be concealed from us. "These invaders, however merciless and
destructive to the Hindoo race, say they must have been sent on their mission by God for some
great and useful purpose, or they could not possibly have succeeded as they did: had their
proceedings not been sanctioned by Him, he could at any moment have destroyed them all, or
have interposed to arrest their progress." These, however, are the speculations of only the
thinking portion. At the bottom of the respect shown to such Mahommedan shrines, by the mass
of Hindoos, there is always a strong ground-work of hope or fear: the soul or spirit of the
savage old man, who had been so well supported on earth, must still, they think, have some
influence at the Court of Heaven to secure them good or work them evil, and they invoke or
propitiate him accordingly. They would do the same to the tomb of Alexander, Jungez Khan, Tymour,
or Nadir Shah, without any perplexing inquiries as to their creed or liturgy.

February 28, 1850.--Chinahut, eleven miles west, over a plain intersected by several small
streams, the largest of which is the Rete, near Sutrick. There is a good deal of kunkur-lime
in the ground over which we have passed today; but the tillage is good where the land is at
all level, and the crops are fine. The plain is cut up here and there by some ravines, but
they are small and shallow, and render but a small portion of the surface unfit for tillage.
The banks of the small streams are, for the most part, cultivated up to the water's edge.

We passed the Rete over a nice bridge, built by Rajah Bukhtawar Sing twenty-five years ago,
at a cost of twenty-five thousand rupees, out of his own purse. He told me that one morning,
in the rains, he came to the bank of this river, on his way to Lucknow from Jeytpoor, a town
which we passed yesterday, and found it so swollen that he was obliged to purchase some large
earthen jars, and form a raft upon them to take over himself and followers. While preparing
his raft, which took a whole day, he heard that from five to ten persons were drowned, in attempting
to cross this little river, every year, and that people were often detained upon the bank for
four or five days together. He resolved to save people from all this evil; and as soon as he
got home set about building this bridge, and got it ready before the next rains. It is a substantial
work, with three good arches. About two miles on this side of the bridge he pointed out to
me the single tree, near a mango-grove, where some eighteen or twenty years ago he overtook
a large balloon, which the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, had got made in the Dilkosha Park at
Lucknow. It was made, he tells me, by a tall and slender young English gentleman, who visited
Lucknow, with his uncle, for the special purpose of constructing and ascending in this machine.
"When it was all ready, sir, the young man got into a small boat that was suspended under it,
taking with him a gun and some artificial fish. We asked him what he intended to do with a
gun in the clouds; and he told us, that in the sky he was in danger of meeting large birds
that might hurt the balloon, and the gun was necessary to frighten them off. As the balloon
began to ascend the old gentleman's eyes filled with tears, and I asked him why. He told me,
that this young man's father had fallen into the sea, and been drowned; and he was always afraid,
when the son went up, that he might never see him alive again.

"The King was sitting at the window in the upper story of the Dilkosha house, with some English
gentlemen, when the balloon passed up close by, and the gentleman took off his hat and bowed
gracefully as he passed, at which the King seemed much pleased. I commanded a regiment of Dragoons,
and the King told me to take a party of my boldest and best-mounted men and follow the balloon.
I selected seventeen, and we were all ready in our saddles. The balloon went straight up, and
we lost sight of the man and the boat in which he sat. The machine, though it was sixty feet
long, including boat and all, and twelve feet wide, seemed at last to be no larger than a small
water-jug. Below we had no wind, but we soon saw the balloon driven by an upper current to
the eastward, along the Fyzabad road. We followed as fast as the horses could carry us, crossed
the Goomtee river over the old stone bridge, and passed many travellers on the road staring
at the extraordinary machine, for they had heard nothing about it, and we had no time to tell
them. When we had gone about seventeen miles, the balloon began to descend. It was in the month
of March, and the weather was hot, and I had lost three horses before it came to the ground.
The young man then began to let go his fish, and they came fluttering down, while the oil-cloths
about the balloon made a noise like the growling of a wild beast. Seeing the enormous machine
going at this rate, followed by us at full speed, the people along the road, who are always
numerous in the morning, became so panic-struck that a great many fell down senseless upon
their faces, and some of them could not be got to rise for some hours afterwards.

"We were not far from it when it approached the ground, and swept along on the border of this
grove, on our left. Fortunately for the young man, it did not strike any trees. He was dressed
all in black, and a very tall, handsome young man he was. As soon as he found himself near
enough to the ground, he jumped out, holding one rope in his hand, and tried to stop the balloon,
calling out to the people on the road, as loud as he could, puckaro, puckaro!--seize, seize!
We were then within two hundred yards of it, and at full speed; and, instead of helping the
young man, the people on the road, thinking the order was to seize them, fell down flat on
their faces, unable to look upon the balloon, or utter a word. They all thought that it was
some terrible demon from above come to seize and devour them. When we had headed it a little,
we all sprang from our saddles, joined the young man at the ropes, and lashed them round anything
we could find, as we were being dragged along. The young man took out his penknife, and gave
the balloon a gash in the side, to let out the smoke that inflated it, and it collapsed and
stopped. The first thing, sir, that the young man did was to call for fire, take a cigar from
his waistcoat pocket, and begin to smoke, while we went to the assistance of the panic-struck
travellers, many of whom were still lying senseless on the ground. We got water, and threw
it in their faces; and when they were able to sit up, we mounted the young man upon one of
our horses, and took him back slowly to Lucknow. He told me that it was so very cold above,
that it gave him a severe headache, and that he found a cigar a good thing to remove it. The
King was very glad when we brought him back, and he gave him several thousand rupees over and
above the cost of making the balloon, and providing him and his uncle during their stay. They
soon after left Lucknow for Lahore, and what became of them I know not."

Passing a Mahommedan village, I asked some of the landholders, who walked along by the side
of my elephant, to talk of their grievances, whether they ever used pigs' dung for manure.
They seemed very much surprised and shocked, and asked how I could suppose that Mahommedans
could use such a thing. "Come," said Bukhtawar Sing, "do not attempt to deceive the Resident.
He has been all over India, and knows very well that Mahommedans do not keep or eat pigs; but
he knows, also, that there is no good cultivator in Oude who does not use the dung of pigs
for manure; and you know that there is no other manure, save' pigeons' dung, that is so good."
"We often purchase manure from those who prepare it," said the landholders, "and do not ask
questions about what it may be composed of; but the greater part of the manure we use is the
cow-dung which falls in the season of the rains, and is stored exclusively for that purpose.
In the dry months, sir, the dung of cows, bullocks, buffaloes, &c., is gathered, formed into
cakes, and stacked for fuel; but in the rains it is all thrown into pits and stored for manure."

Chinahut is the point from which we set out on the 2nd of December, and here I was met by the
prime minister, Nawab Allee Nakee Khan, and the chancellor of the exchequer, Maharajah Balkrishun,
to whom I explained my views as to the measures which ought to be adopted to save the peaceful
and industrious portion of his Majesty's subjects from the evils which now so grievously oppress
them.

Here closes my pilgrimage of three months in Oude; and I can safely say that I have learnt
more of the state of the country, and the condition and requirements of the people, than I
could possibly have learnt in a long life passed exclusively at the capital of Lucknow. Any
general remarks that I may have to make on what I have seen and heard during the pilgrimage
I must defer to a future period.

At four in the afternoon, I left Chinahut, and returned to Lucknow. At the old race-stand,
about three miles from the Residency, I was met by the heir-apparent, and drove with him, in
his carriage, to the Furra Buksh Palace, where we alighted for a few minutes, to go through
the usual tedious ceremonies of an Oriental Court. On the way we were met by Mr. Hamilton,
the chaplain, and his lady. Dr. and Mrs. Bell, and Captain Bird, the First Assistant, and his
brother and guest. After the ceremony, I took leave of the Prince, and reached the Resident
at six o'clock. My wife and children had left me at Peernuggur, to return, for medical advice,
to the Residency, where I had the happiness to find them well, and glad to see me. Having broken
my left thigh hone, near the hip joint, in a fall from my horse, in April, 1849, I was unable
to mount a horse during the tour, and went in a tonjohn the first half of the stage, and on
an elephant the last half, that I might see as much as possible of the country over which we
were passing. The pace of a good elephant is about that of a good walker, and I had generally
some of the landholders and cultivators riding or walking by my side to talk with.

END OF THE TOUR.

                               Camp, Nawabgunge, 5th December, 1849.

My Dear Bird,

I had heard from Mahomed Khan what you mention regarding the imposition practised on the King
by the singers; but from his having conferred a khilaut on the knaves, they supposed that he
had, as usual, pardoned all. If you have grounds to believe that the King is prepared to punish
them, or to acquiesce in their punishment, pray ask an audience and ascertain his Majesty's
wishes. When we last went, I was in hopes that he would tell me that he wished to be relieved
of their presence, and did all I could to encourage him to do so. If the King wishes to have
them removed, encourage him to give immediate orders to the minister to confine them; and offer
any assistance that may be required to take them across the Ganges, or put them into safe custody.
When it is done, it must be done promptly.

As to the Taj Mahal, I went on an order by Richmond, "that the King should put a Mahaldarnee
upon her if he wished." I was told that such was Richmond's order, and I give mine in consequence.
I will refer to the Dufter for his order. But you must at once insist upon all sipahees being
withdrawn from her house. This order was given by me and should be enforced by you. I said
that the Mahaldarnee might remain, but it must be alone, without sipahees, &c.

On emergency, act of course on your own discretion I only wish that the King may be induced
to consent to the removal of all the singers, and meddling eunuchs also.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)             W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Bird, First Assistant.

Sadik Allee should be secured, and punished with the rest.

                  (Signed)             W. H. SLEEMAN.

                             Camp, Bahraetch, 10th December, 1849.

My Dear Bird,

The conduct of the singers which exasperated the King had no reference to public matters with
which he was pledged not to permit them to interfere; and my only request was, that you should
offer your aid in removing them should his Majesty indicate any wish for it. The King said
he would himself punish them for their conduct by banishment across the Ganges, and he must
be left to do so: it was not from any demand made by us, but from resentment for a personal
affront, or an affront to his understanding. We cannot call upon the King to do what he said
he would do under such circumstances, but must leave it to himself. The removal of two out
of a dozen fellows of this description will be of no use--their places will soon be filled
by others. Any attempt on your part to supply their places by better men will only tend to
indispose the King towards them; and it is no part of our duty to dictate to his Majesty with
whom he shall associate in his private hours.

I have had abundant proof that, to reduce the influence of the present favourites, has no tendency
to throw the power into better hands--no authority of any kind taken from them has, by the
minister, been confided to better men; the creatures of one are not a whit better than the
creatures of the other. If his Majesty were to rouse himself, and apply his own mind to business,
we might hope for some good, and I see little chance of this.

You are not to order that the King fulfil his promise, because, as I have said, it was no pledge
made on the requisition of our Government on the Resident. If he does not fulfil it, it is
only one proof more added to a hundred of his exceeding weakness. There are at least a dozen
worse men now influencing all that the King and minister do than Kotab Alee and Gholam Ruza.
The last order given regarding Taj Mahal by me was, that she should admit a Mahaldarnee from
the King, but that no sipahees should be forced upon her. I wrote to the King to this effect,
and my order must be enforced. I am told by the moonshee, that when the King expressed a wish
to have such guardians upon many, Richmond replied that he might have one upon Taj Mahal, who
had given such proof of profligacy. It was not a judicial decision, to be referred to as a
guide under all circumstances, but a mere arrangement which might any day require to be altered.
Taj Mahal is so profligate and insolent a woman, that if she refuses to obey my order, and
receive the King's Mahaldarnee, I shall withdraw the Residents.

After what the Governor-General had told the King in November, 1847, regarding what our Government
would feel itself bound to do, unless his Majesty conducted the duties of a sovereign better
than he had hitherto done; and after the experience we have since had of his entire neglect
of those duties, you should not, I think, have said what you mention having said to him, that
our Government had no wish to deprive him of one iota of the power he had. It was a declaration
not called for by the circumstances, or necessary on the occasion, and should have been avoided,
as it is calculated to impair the impression of his responsibility for the exercise of his
power. No sovereign ever showed a greater disregard for the duties and responsibilities of
his high office than he has done hitherto, and as our Government holds itself answerable to
the people of Oude for a better administration, he should not be encouraged in the notion that
he may always show the same disregard with impunity--that is, continue to retain every iota
of his power whether he exercised it properly or not. No man, I believe, ever felt more anxious
for the welfare of the King, his family, and country, than I do; but unless he exercises his
fearful power better, I should be glad, for the sake of all, to see the whole, or part of it,
in better hands.

The minister has his Motroussil with me, and I have daily communications of what is done or
proposed to be done, and you may be sure that I lose no occasion of admonition. I did not mention
anything you said regarding your interview with the King in your letter to Mahomed Khan; but
in a few hours after your letter came he got the whole from the minister, and reported it to
me. He wants us to undertake the work of turning out the King's favourites, that he may get
all the power they lose, without offending his master by any appearance of moving in the matter.

We go hence to-morrow; hope to be at Gonda on the 14th, and Fyzabad on the 18th. I have requested
the post-master to send all our letters to Fyzabad by the regular dawk from Thursday next,
the 13th. From Fyzabad I will arrange for their coming to my camp.

                           Yours sincerely,

                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Bird,
   &c. &c.

                             Camp, Ghunghole, 12th December, 1849.

My Dear Bird,

I got your letter of the 9th instant last night, at our last ground. In what you have done,
you have not, I think, acted discreetly. You asked me whether, in any case of emergency, you
should act on your discretion, and I told you in reply that you might do so; but surely, whether
the King should have a dozen singers or only ten could not be considered one of such pressing
emergency as not to admit of your waiting for instructions from me, or, at least, for a reply
to your letter. The King has told you truly, that the matter in which the offenders had transgressed
had reference to his house, and not to his Government or ours. This is a distinction which
you appear to have lost sight of from the first. If I demand reparation from another for wrong
or insults suffered from his servants, and he promises to punish them by dismissal from his
service but afterwards relents and detains them, I consider it due to myself and my character
to insist upon the fulfilment of his promise; but if I voluntarily visit any friend who has
at last become sensible of the impositions of his servants which had long been manifest to
all his neighbours, with a view to encourage him in his laudable resolution to dismiss them
from his service, and to offer my aid in effecting the object should he require it, and he
promises me not to swerve from it, but afterwards relents and retains the impostors, I pity
his weakness, but I do not consider it due to myself, or to my character, to insist upon his
fulfilling his promise. By considering two cases so very distinct, the same, you have placed
yourself in a disagreeable situation, for I cannot support you; that is, I can neither demand
that the requisitions made by you be complied with, nor can I tell the King that I approve
of them. Had you waited for my reply, which was sent off from Bahraetch on the 10th, you would
have saved yourself all this annoyance and mortification. It has arisen from an overweening
confidence in your personal influence over his Majesty; the fact is, I believe that no European
gentleman ever has had or ever will have any personal influence over him, and I very much doubt
whether any real native gentleman will ever have any. He never has felt any pleasure in their
society, and I fear never will. He has hitherto felt easy only in the society of such persons
as those with whom he now exclusively associates, and to hope that he will ever feel easy with
persons of a better class is vain. I am perfectly satisfied, in spite of the oath he has taken
in the name of his God, and on the head of his minister, that he made to you the promise you
mention; and I am no less satisfied that the minister wished for the removal of the singers,
provided it should be effected through us without his appearing to his master to move in the
matter, and that he wished their removal solely with a view to acquire for himself the authority
they had possessed. You should not have any more audiences with the King without previous reference
to me; nothing is likely to occur to require it.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Bird,
   &c. &c.

                                Camp, Fyzabad, 18th December, 1819.

My Dear Bird,

I send you the letter which you wish to refer to. As you quote my first letter, pray let me
see it. I kept no copy, but have a distinct recollection of what I intended to say in it regarding
this affair of the singers. It shall be sent back to you. The term "indiscreet" had reference
only to your second visit, and demand from the King of the fulfilment of his promise. I had
no fault whatever to find with your first visit. The term "private" must have had reference,
not to the promise or to the person to whom it was made, but to the offence with which the
singers stood charged. It was an affront offered to the King's understanding that he took affront
at, and whether he had made a promise to resent it as such to me, or to you could make no difference.
If he did not fulfil it, we should pity this further instance of his weakness, but could have
no right to insist upon his doing so. Even had the offence been an interference in public affairs,
and breach of the King's engagements, I should not have demanded their banishment without a
reference to the Governor- General, because the delay of waiting for instructions involved
no danger or serious inconvenience; that is, I should not have demanded it when the King was
so strongly opposed to it. I must distinctly deny that you demanded the King's fulfilment of
his promise in conformity to any instructions received from me, or in accordance with my views
of what was right or expedient in this matter. Your second visit and demand were neither in
conformity to the one nor in accordance with the other. You must have put a construction upon
what I wrote which it cannot fairly bear. By "requisitions" I mean your requirements that the
two men should be banished by the King, according to his promise. No notice has been made to
me of your visit by the Court, and I have therefore had no occasion to say anything whatever
about it in my communications to the Court, nor shall I have any I suppose. In your letter
of the 4th instant, you say, with regard to the Taj Mahal's case, "Not knowing whether you
do or do not wish me to act in any sudden emergency during your absence, I suppose, therefore,
that had you had any such wish you would have instructed me on the subject." In reply, I requested
that you would so act on your own discretion in any such sudden case of emergency.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Bird,
   &c. &c.

                               Camp, Mahomdee, 2nd February, 1850.

My Dear Sir Erskine,

Had it not been too late for you to join my camp conveniently, I should have asked you to run
out and see a little of the country and people of Oude, after you had seen so much of those
of the Honourable Company's dominions. A few years of tolerable government would make it the
finest country in India, for there is no part of India with so many advantages from nature.
I have seen no soil finer; the whole plain of which it is composed is capable of tillage; it
is everywhere intersected by rivers, flowing from the snowy chain of the Himmalaya, which keep
the moisture near the surface at all times, without cutting up any of the land on their borders
into deep ravines; it is studded with the finest groves and single trees, as much as the lover
of the picturesque could wish; it has the boldest and most industrious peasantry in India,
and a landed aristocracy too strong for the weak and wretched Government; it is, for the most
part, well cultivated; yet with all this, one feels, in travelling over it, as if he was moving
among a people suffering under incurable physical diseases, from the atrocious crimes every
day perpetrated with impunity, and the numbers of suffering and innocent people who approach
him, in the hope of redress, and are sent away in despair.

I think your conclusion regarding the source of the signs you saw of beneficial interference
in the north-west provinces a fair one. A Lieutenant-Governor is able to see all parts of the
country under his charge every year, or nearly all; and while he is sufficiently "monarch of
all he surveys" to feel an interest in, and to provide for the general good, he has a sufficient
knowledge of the internal management of particular districts to control the proceedings of
the local officers. He is also well seconded in a very efficient Board of Revenue. But I must
not indulge in these matters any further, till I have the pleasure of meeting you where we
can talk freely about them.

I trust that all at Lucknow will be conducted to your satisfaction and that of Mrs. Erskine.
I have this morning received a note from Mr. Erskine, who left you, it appears, before the
little heir- apparent returned your visit. I expect to complete my tour and return to Lucknow
on the 20th, when I shall have seen all that I required to see, to understand the working of
the existing system, and the probable effects of any suggested changes.

With kind regards to Mrs. Erskine,

                      Believe me,
                           Yours very sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir Erskine Perry.

P.S.--I must not omit to thank you for the expression of your
favourable opinion of the "Rambles." There is one thing of which I
can assure you, that the conversations mentioned in it are genuine,
and give the real thoughts and opinions of the people on the subjects
they embrace.
                                                    W. H. S.

                                       Lucknow, 26th April, 1850.
My Dear Elliot,

I did not send Weston's letters with the other papers, because they were not written in an
official form. He was the senior officer with the force, and had authority from the Durbar
to call upon all local, civil, and military authorities to co-operate in the work; but he did
not take upon himself the command, or write in official form. He inspired all with harmony
and energy, and brought the whole strength of the little force to bear upon the right points
at the right time.

The head of Prethee Put of Paska was cut off by Captain Magness's sipahees after his death,
to be sent to the King as a trophy, but Captain Weston would not let it come in. The body was
offered to his family and friends for interment, but none of the family or tribe (Kolhun's
Rajpoots) would have anything to do with the funeral ceremonies of a man who had murdered his
eldest brother and the head of his tribe. The body was, with the head, put into a sheet, taken
to the river Ghagra, and committed to the stream, to flow to the Ganges, as the best interment
for a Hindoo. These sipahees knew nothing of the man's history; but the people who saw the
affair from the Dhundee Fort mentioned that the body was thrown into the river at the precise
place where he had thrown in that of his eldest brother, after murdering him in the boat with
his own hands, as stated in the extract from my Diary; and all believe that this retribution
arises from an interposition from above. The eldest son of the murdered brother will, I hope,
be put into possession of the estate.

The Governor-General may like to peruse these letters, and I send them. They give, perhaps,
a fuller and better account of what was done, and the manner in which it was done, than more
studied compositions, in an official form, would have given.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir H. M. Elliot, K.C.B.

                                       Lucknow, 8th July, 1850.

My Dear Sir James,

I feel that my Indian career, which has now lasted forty years, must be drawing to a close,
and I am anxious for the settlement in life of my only son, now between seventeen and eighteen
years of age. Having no personal claims upon any member of the Home Government of India, I
solicit the insertion of his name on his Grace the Duke of Wellington's list of candidates
for a commission in the Dragoons; and he is now preparing for his examination under the care
of Mr. Yeatman, at Westow Hill, Norwood, Surrey, near London. But he is ambitious to obtain
an appointment to Bengal, where his father has served so long, and may, possibly, have friends
and recollections that might be useful to him in the early part of his career. It falls to
the lot of few to have the opportunities that I have had to carry out the benevolent views
of Government in measures of great and general benefit to the people, and to secure their gratitude
and affection to their rulers. All the measures which I have been employed to carry out have
tended to display the benevolent solicitude of the Government of India for the welfare of the
people committed to its charge; the object of all has been the greater security of life and
property throughout the country, the greater confidence of the people in the wisdom and efficiency
of our rule, and their greater feeling of interest in this stability. These measures, as far
as they have been confided to my care, have all succeeded; but, as I have stated (p. 79) in
a printed report, a copy of which will be sent to you, they have neither flattered the vainglory
of any particular nation, nor enlisted on their side the self-love of any influential class
or powerful individual, and they have, in consequence, been attended with little éclat. They
have, however, tended to secure to the Government the gratitude and affection of the people
of India, and are measures of which that Government may justly feel proud. The stability of
our Government in India must depend less upon our military victories than upon the confidence
and affection with which our civil and political administration may inspire the great mass
of the people. The general belief is, that our object is their substantial good, and that we
are instruments in the hands of Divine Providence to effect that object. In our military glory
they can feel no sympathy, and in our territorial acquisitions little interest; but they can
and do appreciate every measure which tends to improve the security of life, property, and
industry through the land--to restore the bond of good feeling between the Government and governed,
where it has for a time been severed or impaired by accident--to provide the people with works
tending to improve their comfort and convenience--to mitigate sufferings from calamities of
season, and to encourage all to exert themselves honestly in their proper sphere. In carrying
out the views of Government in such measures, and such only, has my life in India been spent;
and for doing so to the best of my humble ability I have, I believe, done much to make its
rule revered throughout India. It is by such measures that the respect and confidence of the
great mass of the people have been secured, so as to enable Europeans, male and female, to
pass from one end of the country to the other with the assurance, not only that they will suffer
no personal injury, but no mark of disrespect. Should anything occur to deprive us of this
confidence and respect among the great mass of the people, the recollection of our victories,
and assurance of our superior military organization will avail us but little; and it is as
one who has zealously and successfully aided Government in securing them, that I now venture
to address you, in the hope that you will--if you can do so consistently with your public duties
and pledges to others--open to my son the same career of usefulness by conferring upon him
a nomination to the civil service of India. He is now five months above seventeen years of
age; and by the time he is eighteen, he will, I hope, under Mr. Yeatman's judicious care, be
able to pass his examination for Haileybury, should he, through your means, obtain this the
utmost object of his ambition. Over and above the desire to follow his father's footsteps in
India, he is anxious to avoid the necessity of encroaching so much upon the small means I have
to provide for his four sisters, by entering so expensive a branch of the public service as
the Dragoons. I know the great nature of the favour I ask from you. It is the first favour
that I have ever asked from any member of the Home Government of India; and I solicit it from
you solely on the ground of service rendered to the Government and people of India. I am told
that I must address my application to an individual; and I address it to you, under the impression
that you are the member with whom such ground is likely to meet with most consideration;--not
that I think any member of the Honourable Court would disregard it; for I believe, after long
and varied experience in public affairs, and much thought and reading, that no body intrusted
with the Government of a distant possession ever performed their duties with more earnest solicitude
for its welfare than the Court of Directors of the Honourable East India Company; but because
your public career has inspired me with more confidence than that of any other member of the
Court as now constituted. If you cannot grant me the favour I ask, you will, I know, pardon
the liberty I have taken in asking it.

            And believe me, with great respect,
                           Yours faithfully,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir James Weir Hogg, Bart.

                                       Lucknow, 20th September, 1850.

My Dear Sir Charles,

The papers give us reason to hope that it is your intention to visit Lucknow on your way down
from the hills, and if you can make it convenient to come, I shall be rejoiced to have the
opportunity of showing you all that is worth seeing, and be able to afford all who come with
you, ladies and gentlemen, accommodation.

The only road to Lucknow for carriages is from Cawnpore, and if you come that way, I will have
carriages sent for you. If you come by any other road, I will have elephants sent to whatever
place you may mention, and tents if required. It has been usual, when the Commander-in-chief
visits Lucknow, for Government to intimate the intention to the King through the Resident in
Oude, that preparation may be made for his reception in due form.

I mention this that you may make known your wish or intention to the Governor-General, in time
for me to prepare the King and his Court.

From Cawnpore to this is only a drive of six hours, the distance being fifty miles, and the
road good. All officers, &c., will be glad to have an opportunity of paying their respects
to their distinguished Chief.

                     Believe me,
                           Yours very faithfully,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To his Excellency
Sir Charles Napier, G.C.B.,
     &c.  &c.  &c.

                                       Lucknow, 7th November, 1850.

My Dear Allan,

In the "Englishman" of the 28th, and the "Hurkara" of the 29th, there are some strictures on
Oude affairs. The editors of both papers are, I believe, sturdy, honest men; but their correspondents
are not acquainted with the merits of the particular case referred to, or with Oude affairs
generally. I vouch for the truth of everything stated in the enclosed paper, and shall feel
obliged if you will give it to the one most likely, in your opinion, to make a fair use of
it. There can be no harm in putting an editor in possession of the real truth in a question
involving not only individual but national honour; for he must be anxious to make his paper
the vehicle of truth on all such questions.

I do not like to address either of the editors, because Government expect all their servants
will abstain from doing so in their own vindication, and will leave their honour in their keeping.
I have done so since 1843, and should now do so were I alone concerned in this affair. You
may mention my name as authority for what is stated, but pray let it be mentioned confidentially.
Government has been informed of the truth, and it is well that the public should be so.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN

To J. Allan, Esq.

                                       Lucknow, 17th November, 1850.

My Dear Sir James,

I thank you for your very kind letter of the 7th ultimo: my son is preparing for his examination,
and expects his commission in some regiment of cavalry very soon. He has not only become reconciled
to it, but would, I believe, now prefer remaining at home as a cavalry officer to coming to
India in any capacity. As I have only one son, and he has four sisters to look after, I should
be unwilling to have him sent out to India as a cadet, were he anxious to be so. A good regiment
is an excellent school for a young man, but no school could be worse than a bad regiment; and
among so many, there must always be some bad. I have seen some of the sons of my old friends
utterly ruined in character and constitution by being posted to such regiments when too young
to think for themselves. I feel, however, as grateful to you for your very kind offer as I
should be, were I to avail myself of it.

If I return to England, I shall take advantage of the earliest opportunity to pay my respects
and become personally acquainted with you; but I have no intention to leave India as long as
I feel that I can perform efficiently the duties intrusted to me.

I had a few days ago, in referring to Government an important question that must some day come
before you, occasion to mention an important and interesting fact. During the last collision
with the Seiks, I found that the Government securities kept up their value here, while in Calcutta
they fell a good deal; and the merchants here employed agents in Calcutta to purchase largely
for sale here. Paper to the value of more than three millions sterling, or three crores of
rupees, is held by people residing in the city of Lucknow, and the people had never the slightest
doubt that we should be ultimately triumphant. The question was whether heirs and executors
of persons domiciled here and leaving property in Government securities, should apply to Her
Majesty's Supreme Court in Calcutta, for probates to wills and letters of administration, or
whether an act should be passed to render the decision of the highest Court at Lucknow, countersigned,
by the Resident, as valid as the certificate of a judge in our own provinces, as far as such
property in Government securities might be concerned. A provision of this sort had been omitted
in Act 20 of 1841, which was considered applicable to all British India, of which the kingdom
of Oude was held to form a part.

We have now a fair prospect of long peace, during which I hope our finances will improve. The
lavish life-pensions granted after wars in Central and Southern India will be lapsing with
the death of the present incumbents, many of whom are becoming old and infirm, and our means
of transit and irrigation will increase with the new works which are being formed, and we shall
always have it in our power to augment our revenue from indirect taxation, as wealth and industry
increase.

My Lord,

The mail of the 24th January has just come in, and I find my only son Henry Arthur gazetted
for the 16th Dragoons. He told me by the last mail that he was to be so if he passed his examination
on the 10th of that month, which he hoped to do; but I deferred writing to thank you for your
kind exertions in his behalf till his name should appear in the "Gazette." I pray your Lordship
to accept my most grateful acknowledgments for this act of kindness, added as it has been to
the many others which I have received at your hands. It is not the less valuable that it is
the only favour I have received from England since I left it more than forty years ago, though,
I believe, few have done more to benefit the people of its eastern dominions, and to secure
for it their esteem and affection.

I trust that my son will never do anything to make your Lordship regret the favour conferred
upon me and him on this occasion. He is, I believe, in disposition, manners, and education
a little gentleman; and in time he will, I hope, become a good officer.

If I might take the liberty, I would pray your Lordship to offer, in such terms as may appear
to you suitable, my grateful acknowledgments for the consideration I have received, to his
Grace the Duke of Wellington, and to Lord Fitzroy Somerset. My London Agents, Messrs. Denay,
Clark, and Co., of Austin Friars, have been instructed to pay for my son's commission and outfit,
and to provide him with the funds indispensably necessary in addition to his pay.

We shall now look with much interest to the Parliamentary discussions on Indian affairs, for
we must expect some important changes on the renewal of the Charter. Whatever these changes
may be for the home or local Government, I trust the benefit of the people of India will be
considered the main point, and not the triumph of a party. The statesman who shall link India
more closely with New Zealand will be a benefactor to both England and India, and that colony
also. It might, with advantage to itself, take those children of Indian officers who cannot
find employment of any kind in India, and ought not to be thrown back upon the mother-country.
With this view, it might be useful to transfer our orphan institutions to that island, to direct
that way our invalid and pensioned officers, who, while subsisting upon their pensions or stipends,
would be able to establish their children in a climate suitable to the preservation of their
race, which that of India certainly is not.

India is at present tranquil, and likely to remain so. We have no native chiefs, or combination
of native chiefs, to create uneasiness; and if we continue to satisfy the great body of the
people that we are anxious, to the best of our ability, to promote their happiness and welfare,
and are the most impartial arbitrators that they could have, we shall have nothing to fear.
The moment that this mass is impressed with the belief that we wish to govern India only for
ourselves, or as the French govern Algiers, from that moment we must lose our vantage ground
and decline. We may war against the native chiefs of India, but we cannot war against the people--we
need not fear what may be called political dangers, but we must guard carefully against those
of a social character which would unite against us the members of all classes and all creeds.

But I must no longer indulge in speculations of this sort, in which
you can now feel little interest amidst the important changes which
are now taking place in the institutions and relations of European
nations. With grateful recollections of kindness received, and great
respect,
          I remain,
              Your Lordship's obedient servant,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Right Hon. the Earl of Ellenborough.

P.S.--Since writing the above, I have received your Lordship's letter of the 18th of January,
and have been much gratified with the favourable opinion you entertain of the commandant and
officers. It is the best assurance I could have of my boy being safe. Nothing could be more
auspicious than the opening of the lad's career, and I trust he will profit by the advantage.

                                       Lucknow, 18th March, 1851.

My Dear Sir Erskine,

I have read over with much interest the two small works you have done me the favour to send
me, the one on Buddhism, and the other on Law Reform; but I have not ventured upon the Seventh
Report of the Board of Education yet, because I have had a good deal to do and think about;
and a good deal of it is in small print, very trying for my eyes, which are none of the strongest.
I shall, however, soon read it.

I concur in all your views about the necessity of throwing overboard the whole system of special
pleading, and have been amused with Sir J. P. Grant's horror of your proposed innovations.
It is not less than that which he expressed at the little Macaulay Code, intended to blow up
the whole pyramid raised by "the wisdom of our ancestors," in which so many illustrious characters
he entombed. He was, indeed, as you say, "a great laudator temporis acti;" but the number of
those like him at all times in England and its distant possessions is fearful. One likes to
look to America in this as in all things tending to advancement; but there the "damned spot"
stares us in the face, blights our hopes, and crushes our sympathies--hideous slavery --hideous
alike in the recollection of the past, the contemplation of the present, and the anticipation
of the future. I wish two things-- 1. That you would write a work on the subject less "sketchy
and perfunctory," as you call it, so that any one not versed in English law and procedure might
be able to understand it and appreciate it thoroughly. 2nd. That you would, when relieved from
your present office, come out as our law member of council, to press your views on our Government
with effect. With these law reforms, as with railroads, there were less impediments in India
than in England; but there is one thing that I would observe. In our own Indian Courts our
judges would--for a time at least--want the aid of honest masters to condense and report upon
cases under trial. Such men would be made in time; and in considering such things, we must
recollect that almost the only persons in India who can send agents into all parts of it, with
a perfect assurance of honest dealing, are the native merchants and bankers. But I won't dwell
on this subject. I can't find amongst the numerous Buddhists here, one who knows anything about
"Kapila vasta," which you place near to Lucknow. I should like to visit the birth-place of
a man who did so much for mankind as Sakeen Gantama.

He would hardly have done as I have, placed my only son in the 16th Lancers. However, I may
console myself, for he may be in it a long time without doing much mischief, for I do hope
that the people of the nations of modern Europe are too strong and too wise to let their sovereigns
and ministers play such fantastic tricks as they were "wont to play," when George the 3rd,
and Edward the 3rd, and Henry the 5th were kings. Property, good sense, and good business have
greatly increased and spread, and are every day producing good fruits.

                     Believe me,
                           Yours very trusting,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir Erskine Perry,
     &c.  &c.

                                       Lucknow, 31st March, 1851.
My Dear Sir,

I grieve to say that I can do nothing whatever for the son of my late friend Colonel Ouseley,
and have been obliged to write to him to that effect, as to many other sons of old and valued
friends whom I should be glad to aid if I could.

Tens of thousands of the most happy families I have seen in India owe all they have to the
able and judicious management of the late Colonel Ouseley when in the civil charge of the districts
of Houshengabad and Baitool, in the Saugor territories; and no man's memory is more dear to
the people of those districts than his now is. The family of a man who had done so much to
make his government beloved and respected over so large a field should never want if I could
prevent it; but I have no situations whatever in my gift, nor have I any influence over any
persons who have such situations to bestow.

                    Believe me,
                           Yours truly,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Harrington.

                                       Lucknow, 24th November 1851.

My Lord,

Lucknow affairs are now in a state to require the assumption of the entire management of the
country; and the principal question for your Lordship's consideration is, whether this shall
be done by a new treaty or by simple proclamation. Treaties not only justify but enjoin the
measure; our pledges to the people demand it; and all India are, I believe, satisfied of its
justice, provided we leave the revenues for the maintenance of the royal family in suitable
dignity, and for the benefit of the people.

We may disencumber our Government of the pay of two regiments of Oude Local Infantry, and incorporate
them with the Oude force to be raised, and of that of the officers of the residency, altogether
about two lacs and a-half of rupees; and when things are settled down a little, the brigade
now here--of three infantry regiments and a company of artillery, costing some four lacs more--may
be dispensed with, perhaps.

If I may be permitted to give an opinion as to the best mode of the two, I should say proclamation,
as the more dignified.

I have prepared all the information I believe your Lordship will require, and am ready to wait
upon you with it when and where it may seem most convenient.

The treasury is exhausted, and fifty lacs are required to pay the stipendiaries of the royal
family and establishments; and assuredly all the members of that family, save the King's own
household, are wishing for some great measure to place them under the guarantee of the British
Government. The people all now wish for it, at least all the well-disposed, for there is not
a man of integrity or humanity left in any office. The King's understanding has become altogether
emasculated; and though he would not willingly do harm to any one, he is unable to protect
any one. He would now, I believe, willingly get rid of his minister; and, having exhausted
the treasury, the minister would not much dislike to get rid of him. I shall do my best to
prevent his being released from the responsibility of his misdoings till I meet your Lordship.
I should like, if possible, to meet your Lordship where there is likely to be the least crowd
of expectants and parade to take up your time and distract your attention. If at Cawnpore,
I hope you will permit me to have my camp on the Oude side of the river, with a tent in your
camp for business during the day. With your Lordship's commands to attend, it will be desirable
to have an order to make over my treasury to the First Assistant, to prevent delay. Should
you desire any memoranda to be sent, they shall be forwarded as soon as ordered. If any further
public report upon the state of Oude affairs appears to be required, I must pray your Lordship
to let me know as soon as convenient. I shall not propose any native gentlemen for the higher
offices; but it will be necessary to have a great many in the subordinate ones, to show that
your Lordship wishes to open employment in all branches of the new administration to educated
native gentlemen.

                      I remain,
            Your Lordship's obedient servant,
                 (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Most Noble
The Marquis of Dalhousie,
Governor-General,
   &c. &c. &c.

                                       Lucknow, 18th March, 1852.

My Lord,

I was favoured with your Lordship's letter of the 24th ultimo in due course, and did not reply
immediately as I had stated, or was about to state, in a public form, all that seemed to be
required about Captain Bird and Dr. Bell. Dr. Bell had apologised for indiscretions in conversation,
but denied ever having authorised Mr. Brandon to make use of his name; and pretended utter
ignorance of the intrigues which he was carrying on at the time that he was doing his utmost
to convey wrong impressions to the Durbar. I feel grateful for the support your Lordship has
given me. I cared nothing about the intrigues of these very silly men while under the impression
that it was your intention to interpose effectually for the benefit of the people of Oude,
because the new arrangements would have rendered them harmless; but when I found that you could
not do so at present, it became necessary, for my own dignity and that of the Government, to
do my best to put a stop to them. Most assuredly Captain Bird had been trying hard to persuade
the King and his minister that our Government could not interfere, and that all the threats
of the Governor-General would continue to be what they had hitherto been, and might be disregarded.

I find that your Lordship has departed slightly from your original plan in regard to Burmah,
by sending a detachment to make a demonstration upon Rangoon and Martaban. There is no calculating
upon the result of such a demonstration in dealing with a Government so imbecile, and so ignorant
of our resources. The places are too far from the capital, and the war party may succeed in
persuading the King that in this demonstration we put forth all our strength. I can appreciate
your motive--the wish to avoid, if possible, a war of annexation, which a war upon any scale
must be. We should have to make use of a vast number of suffering people, whom we could not
abandon to the mercy of the old Government.

In the last war our great difficulties were the want of quick transit for troops and stores
by sea, the want of carriage cattle, and sickness. These three impediments will not now beset
us. Our own districts on the coast will supply land-carriage, steam-vessels will carry our
troops and stores, and subsequent experience will enable us to avoid sources of endemial diseases.
I have no map of the country; but some letters in the papers about the Busseya river interested
me much. Our strong point is steam; and the discovery of a river which would enable us to use
it in getting in strength to the rear or flank would be of immense advantage. There must be
healthy districts; indeed Burmah generally must be a healthy country, or the population would
not be so strong and intelligent as they are known to be. In religious feeling they are less
opposed to us than any other people not Buddhists. Indeed, from the people we should have nothing
to fear; and the army must be insignificant in numbers as well as equipments. I am very glad
to find that so able and well-trained a statesman as Fox Maule has been put at the head of
the Board of Control; and trust that your Lordship will remain at our head till the Burmah
affair is thoroughly settled.

The little affair of the Moplars, on the Malabar coast, may grow into a very big one unless
skilfully managed. A brother of the Conollys is the magistrate, I believe. We can learn nothing
of the cause of the strong feeling of discontent that prevails among this fanatical people.
No such strong feeling can exist in India without some "canker-worm" to embitter the lives
and unite the sympathies of large classes against their rulers or local governors, and make
them think that they cannot shake it off without rebelling and becoming martyrs.

                                       Lucknow, 4th April, 1852.

My Dear Sir James,

Your present of the cadetship for her son made the poor widow's heart glad, and I doubt not
that she has written to express her grateful feelings. The young man will, I hope, prove himself
deserving of the favour you have conferred upon him so gracefully. The Court has called for
a copy of my Diary of the tour I made through Oude soon after I took charge of my office; and
I have sent off two copies, one for Government and the other for the Court. I will send home
two copies for yourself and the chairman as soon as they can be bound in Calcutta. The Diary
contains a faithful picture of Oude, its Government, and people, I believe. I have printed
only a few copies, and they will not be distributed till I learn that the Court consider them
unobjectionable. In spirit they will be found so. I intend, if I can find time, to give the
history of the reigning family in a third volume. My general views on Oude affairs have been
given in my letters to Government, which will, I conclude, be before the Court. A ruler so
utterly regardless of his high duties and responsibilities, and of the sufferings of the people
under his rule, as the present King, I have never seen; nor have I ever seen ministers so incompetent
and so unworthy as those whom he employs in the conduct of his affairs. We have threatened
so often to interpose for the benefit of the poor people, without doing anything, that they
have lost all hope, and the profligate and unprincipled Government have lost all fear. The
untoward war with Burmah prevents our present Governor-General from doing what he and I believe
the Honourable Court both wish. We certainly ought not any longer to incur the odium of supporting
such a Government in its iniquities, pledged as we are by treaties to protect the people from
them. I do not apprehend any serious change in the constitution of the Court of Directors in
the new charter. No ministers would hazard such a change in the present state of Europe. The
Court is India's only safeguard. No foreign possession was ever so governed for itself as India
has been, and this all foreigners with whom I have conversed, admit. The Governor- General
of the Netherlands India was with me lately on his way home. He is a first-rate statesman,
and he declared to me that he was impressed and delighted to see a country so governed, and
apparently so sensible of the benefits conferred upon it by our paternal rule. He will tell
you the same thing if you ever meet him. His name is Rochasson. The people appreciate the value
of the Court of Directors, and no act, as far as it is known to them, has tended more to strengthen
their confidence in it than that which has brought retribution on the great sinner in Scinde,
Allee Murad. No punishment was ever more just or merited. Scinde, however, is too remote for
the people in general to feel much interest in its affairs or families. Our weak points in
the last Burmese war were:--1. The want of transport for troops and stores; 2. The want of
carriage by land, for arms and stores; 3. Sickness. All these things have been remedied, and
the war, when begun in earnest, can last but a short time. We know more of the country and
shall avoid the sources of endemial disease; our steam provides for the rapid transport of
troops and stores; and draft-cattle will be supplied from our own districts on the coast. Where
our Government has no representative as Resident or Consul, all Europeans should be told that
they remain entirely on their own responsibility. Unless this is done, the Governments must
be eternally in collision. If war be carried on in earnest, it must be one of annexation: we
must make use of persons whom we cannot abandon to the mercy of the Burmese Government. We
have nothing to fear from the people: they have no religious feeling against us, being all
Buddhists; and they have seen too much of the benefits conferred by us on the territories taken
during the last war to have any dead of our dominion. Lord Dalhousie has, I believe, been most
anxious to avoid a war--it has been forced upon him.

                      Believe me,
                           Yours very faithfully,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir James W. Hogg, Deputy Chairman, India House.

                                       Lucknow, 6th April, 1842.

My Dear Mr. Halliday,

We are all wrong here in the Martinière institution, and you have now an admirable opportunity
of setting all right and doing an infinite deal of good with little trouble. I know how little
you have of time and attention to devote to such things, and conclude that Mr. Devereux cannot
have much more, and you may feel assured that I shall do all in my power to assist you. We
are here attempting to give the education of gentlemen to beggar-boys, who must always depend
upon their daily work for their daily bread. The senior boys are in despair, for they find
that they have learnt hardly anything to fit them for the only employments open to them, and
this tends to discourage the younger ones. The Roorkee Civil Engineering School seems to have
been eminently successful, and a fine field is open to all who are taught in it. We shall no
doubt have a similar field open in Oude when Government interposes in behalf of the suffering
people, and we might prepare for it by converting the Martinière into a similar school or college.
The committee has just expressed to you a hope that Mr. Crank, the officiating principal, may
be able to pass an examination in the native languages. This hope can never be realised; and
if he does I shall have to record my opinion that he is otherwise unfitted. The power of nominating
a principal rests entirely with the trustees; and if you concur in my views you might at once
prepare for the change by getting a man from England or elsewhere, such as Mr. Maclagan, the
late superintendent of the Roorkee school, fitted to teach civil engineering in all its branches.
You have the command of funds to provide him with assistants of all kinds; and we have accommodations
and funds to raise more, and provide machinery, books, &c. The thing might be set going at
once, after you send a competent man to superintend it; and the work will be honourable to
our Government and ourselves, and of vast benefit to the boys brought up at this Martinière,
and to their parents and families. If you think favourably of the proposed change, and will
direct the committee to take it into consideration, I will do my best to make it respond cordially
to your call; or if you direct the measure to be adopted at once, I will see that it is worked
out as it should be. Mr. Crank has a good knowledge of mathematics and mechanics, and will
make a good second under a good first; but he would be quite unfit for a first. Mr. Maclagan
intended going home, via Bombay, as soon as relieved by Captain Oldfield, and has embarked
by this time. He might be written to, to send out a competent person and the required machinery.
Constantia is admirably adapted for such an establishment; the river Goomtee flows close under
it; the grounds are ample, open, and level, and the climate fine. It would interest the whole
of the Oude aristocracy, and induce them to send their sons there for instruction. It would
be gratifying to the Judges of the Supreme Court to know that the funds available were devoted
to a purpose so highly useful; and you would carry home with you the agreeable recollection
of having engrafted so useful a branch upon the almost useless old trunk of the Martinière.

                           Yours very truly,
                 (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To F. J. Halliday, Esq. Secretary to Government, Calcutta.

Mr. Maclagan is a Lieutenant of Engineers, and lives in Edinburgh.

                                       Lucknow. 10th April, 1852.

My Lord,

In September 1848, I took the liberty to mention to your Lordship my fears that the system
of annexing and absorbing native States--so popular with our Indian service, and so much advocated
by a certain class of writers in public journals--might some day render us too visibly dependent
upon our native army; that they might see it, and that accidents might occur to unite them,
or too great a portion of them, in some desperate act. My only anxiety about Burmah arises
from the same fears. Our native army has been too much petted of late; and they are liable
to get into their heads the notion that we want them more than they want us. Had the 38th been
at first ordered to march to Aracan, they would, in all probability, have begged their European
officers to pray Government to permit them to go by water.

We committed a great mistake in not long ago making all new levies general service corps; and
we have committed one not less grave in restricting the admissions into our corps to high-caste
men: and encouraging the promotion of high-caste men to the prejudice of men equally deserving
but of lower caste. The Brahmins in regiments have too much influence, and they are at the
bottom of all the mischief that occurs. The Rajpoots are too numerous, because they are under
the influence of the Brahmins, and feel too strong from their numbers.

We require stronger and braver men than the Madras Presidency can afford, with all their readiness
for general service. The time may not be distant when England will have to call upon India
for troops to serve in Egypt; and the troops from Madras, or even from Bombay, will not do
against Europeans. Men from Northern or Western India will be required, and, in order to be
prepared, it would be well to have all new corps--should new corps be required--composed of
men from the Punjaub or the Himmalayah chain, and ready for any service. Into such corps none
but Seiks, Juts, Goojurs, Gwalas, Mussulmans, and Hillmen should be enlisted. Too much importance
is attached to height, merely that corps may look well on parade. Much more work can be got
out of moderate sized than tall men in India. The tall men in regiments always fail first in
actual service--they are fit only for display at reviews and on parades: always supposing that
the moderate-sized men are taken from Western and Northern India, where alone they have the
strength and courage required.

No recruit should henceforward be taken except on condition of general service; and by-and-by
the option may be given to all sipahees, of a certain standing or period of service, to put
their names down for general service, or retire. This could not, of course, be done at present.
No commanding officer can say, at present, what his regiment will do if called upon to aid
the Government in any way not specified in their bond. They have too commonly favourites, who
persuade them, for their own selfish purposes, that their regiments will do anything to meet
their wishes, at the very time that these regiments are watching for an occasion to disgrace
these favourites by refusal. I have known many occasions of this. None but general service
corps or volunteers should be sent to Burmah from Bengal during this campaign, or we shall
hazard a disaster. There are, I believe, several that your Lordship has not yet called upon.
They should be at hand as soon as possible, and their present places supplied by others. In
the mean time, corps of Punjaubies and Hillmen should be raised for general service. Not only
can no commanding officer say what his corps will do under circumstances in which their religion
or prejudices may afford a pretext for disobedience, but no officers can say how far their
regiments sympathise with the recusant: or discontented, corps, and are prepared to join them.

In case it should ever be proposed to make all corps general service corps, in the way I mention,
a donation would, of course, be offered to all who declined of a month's pay for every year
of past service, or of something of that kind. A maximum might be fixed of four, five, or six
months. It would not cost much, for but few would go. I must pray your Lordship to excuse the
liberty I take in obtruding my notions on this subject, but it really is one of vital importance
in the present state of affairs in India, as well as in Europe.

                 With great respect, I remain, &c.,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Moat Noble The Marquis of Dalhousie, K.T. Governor-General of India, Calcutta.

Memorandum.

In the year 1832 or 1833 the want of bamboos of large size, for yokes for artillery bullocks,
was much felt at Saugor and the stations of that division; and the commissariat officer was
authorised to form a bamboo grove, to be watered by the commissariat cattle, in order to supply
the deficiency for the future. Forty beegas, or about twenty acres of land, were assigned for
the purpose, and Government went to the expense of forming twelve pucka-wells, as the bamboos
were planted upon the black cotton-soil of Central India, in which kutcha- wells do not stand.
The first outlay was, therefore, greater than usual, being three thousand rupees. The establishment
kept up consisted of one gardener, at five rupees a month, and two assistants at three rupees
each. The bamboos were watered by the artillery bullocks and commissariat servants.

In a few years the bamboos became independent of irrigation, and no outlay has since been incurred
upon them. The bamboos are now between forty and fifty feet high, and between four and five
inches in diameter. They are used by the commissariat and ordnance departments at Saugor, but
are not, I believe, required for yokes for the artillery bullocks.

There is a grove of sesum trees near the Lucknow cantonments formed in the same way, but with
little or no outlay in irrigation. The trees were planted, and all the cost incurred has been
in the people employed to protect them from trespass. In a dryer climate they might require
irrigation for a few years. Groves of saul, alias sukhoo trees, might be formed in the same
manner in the vicinity of all stations where there are artillery bullocks; and the bullocks
themselves would benefit by being employed in the irrigation. The establishments kept up for
the bullocks would be able to do all the work required.

The complement of bullocks for a battery of 6 guns, 6 waggons, and 2 store carts, is 106. The
number yoked to each gun and waggon is 61, , and to each cart 4, leaving a surplus of 26 for
accidents. There would, therefore, be always a sufficient number of bullocks available for
the irrigation of such groves where such a battery is kept up. These bullocks are taken care
of by 4 sirdars and 59 drivers; and an European sergeant of artillery is appointed as bullock-sergeant
to each battery, to superintend the feeding, cleaning, &c. &c. The officer on duty sees the
bullocks occasionally, and the commanding officer sometimes. Such groves might be left to the
care of the commandant of artillery at small stations, and to the commissariat officer at large
ones.

At every large station there might be a grove of sesum, one of sakhoo, and one of bamboos,
each covering a hundred acres; and at all stations with a battery, three groves of the same
kind, covering each twenty acres or more. For the convenience of carriage by water, such groves
might be formed chiefly in the vicinity of rivers, or in that of the places where the timber
is most likely to be required; but no battery should be without such groves. The men and bullocks
would both benefit by the employment such groves would give them. The men, to interest them,
might each have a small garden within the grove which he assists in watering.

Such groves would tend to improve the salubrity of the stations where they are formed, and
become agreeable and healthful promenades for officers and soldiers. In most stations, kutcha-wells,
formed at a cost of from 20 to 50 rupees, would suffice for watering such groves. They might
be lined, like those of the peasantry, by twisted cables of straw and twigs; and the men who
attend the bullocks might be usefully employed in weaving them, as all should learn to make
fascines and gabions. Willows should be planted near all the wells, to supply twigs for making
the cables for lining the wells, and the manure of the artillery draft-bullocks should be appropriated
to the groves.

[Submitted to the Governor-General through the Private Secretary, in March, 1852, with reference
to a conversation which I had with his Lordship in his camp.]

                                       Lucknow, 23rd August, 1852.

My Lord,

Permit me to offer my congratulations, not only on the success which has hitherto attended
your Lordship's arrangements in Burmah, but on the very favourable impression which that success
has made upon the Sovereign and people of England. It has enabled you to show that the war
is not with the people of Burmah, but with a haughty, insolent, and incompetent Government,
with whom that people has no longer any sympathy; and that, should circumstances render the
annexation of any portion of its territory necessary, the people of that portion would consider
the measure a blessing, and be well pleased to live in harmony under the efficient protection
of the new rule.

They are not in any way opposed to us from either religions or political feelings, for they
seem to consider Christianity as a branch only of their own great system of Buddhism, which
includes almost half of the human race; and they are evidently weary of the political institutions
under which they now live, and which have ceased to afford them protection of any kind. In
the annexation of Pegu--should it be forced upon your Lordship--there would be nothing revolting
to the feelings of its people or to those of the people of England; on the contrary, both would
be satisfied, after the disposition the people of Pegu have manifested towards us, that the
measure was alike necessary to their security and to the honour and interest of our Government.

Nor do I think that there would be any ground to apprehend that the resources of the territory
taken would not, after a time, be sufficient to defray the costs of the establishments required
to retain and govern it. Among the people of Pegu we should find men able and willing to serve
us faithfully and efficiently in both our civil and military establishments, and the drain
for the maintenance of foreigners would not be large. I have heard the mental and physical
powers of the men of Pegu spoken of in the highest terms by persons who have spent the greater
part of their lives among them; and a country which produces such men cannot be generally insalubrious.
This early demonstration has enabled your Lordship to ascertain and expose the determination
of the Government of Ava not to grant the redress justly demanded for wrongs suffered, so as
to enlist on our side the sympathy of all civilized nations, and at the same time to discover
the real weakness of the enemy and the facilities offered to us, in their fine rivers, for
the use of our strong arm--the steam navy. Not a single "untoward event" has yet occurred to
dispirit our troops, or give confidence to the enemy, or to prejudice the people of Burmah
against us: and there certainly is nothing in this war to make us apprehend "that our political
difficulties will begin when our military successes are complete." It is not displeasing to
perceive the strong tendency to an early onward move, while your Lordship has so prudent a
leader in General Godwin to restrain it within due bounds.

                       I remain, &c.,
                 (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Most Noble The Marquis of Dalhousie, K.T. Governor-General of India. Calcutta.

                                       Lucknow, September, 1852.

My Lord,

The longer the present King reigns, the more unfit he becomes to reign, and the more the administration
and the country deteriorate. The State must have become bankrupt long ere this, but the King,
and the knaves by whom he is governed, have discontinued paying the stipends of all the members
of the royal family, save those of his own father's family, for the last three years; and many
of them are reduced to extreme distress, and without the hope of ever getting their stipends
again unless our Government interferes. The females of the palaces of former sovereigns ventured
to clamour for their subsistence, and they were, without shame or mercy, driven into the streets
to starve, beg, or earn their bread by their labour. This deters all from complaining, and
they are in a state of utter dismay. No part of the people of Oude are more anxious for the
interposition of our Government than the members of the royal family; for there is really no
portion more helpless and oppressed: none of them can ever approach the King, who is surrounded
exclusively by eunuchs, fiddlers, and poetasters worse than either; and the minister and his
creatures, who are worse than all. They appropriate at least one-half of the revenues of the
country to themselves, and employ nothing but knaves of the very worst kind in all the branches
of the administration. The King is a crazy imbecile, who is led about by these people like
a child, and made to do whatever they wish him to do, and to give whatever orders may best
suit their private interests. At present, the most powerful of the favourites are Decanut od
Doula and Husseen od Doula, two eunuchs; Anees od Doula and Mosahib od Doula, two fiddlers;
two poetasters, and the minister and his creatures. The minister could not stand a moment without
the eunuchs, fiddlers, and poets, and he is obliged to acquiesce in all the orders given by
the King for their benefit. The fiddlers have control over the administration of civil justice;
the eunuchs over that of criminal justice, public buildings, &c. The minister has the land
revenue; and all are making enormous fortunes. The present King ought not certainly to reign:
he has wilfully forfeited all right to do so; but to set him aside in favour of his eldest,
or indeed any other son, would give no security whatever for any permanent good government
A well-selected regency would, no doubt, be a vast improvement upon the present system; but
no people would invest their capital in useful works, manufactures, and trades, with the prospect
of being handed over a few years hence to a prince brought up precisely in the same manner
the present King was, and as all his sons will be. What the people want, and most earnestly
pray for is, that our Government should take upon itself the responsibility of governing them
well and permanently. All classes, save the knaves, who now surround and govern the King, earnestly
pray for this--the educated classes, because they would then have a chance of respectable employment,
which none of them now have; the middle classes, because they find no protection or encouragement,
and no hope that their children will be permitted to inherit the property they may leave, not
invested in our Government securities; and the humbler classes, because they are now abandoned
to the merciless rapacity of the starving troops, and other public establishments, and of the
landholders, driven or invited into rebellion by the present state of misrule. There is not,
I believe, another Government in India so entirely opposed to the best interest's and most
earnest wishes of the people as that of Oude now is; at least I have never seen or read of
one. People of all classes have become utterly weary of it. The people have the finest feelings
towards our Government and character. I know no part of India, save the valley of the Nurbuddah,
where the feeling towards us is better. All, from the highest to the lowest, would, at this
time, hail the advent of our administration with joy; and the rest of India, to whom Oude misrule
is well known, would acquiesce in the conviction, that it had become imperative for the protection
of the people. With steamers to Fyzabad, and a railroad from that place to Cawnpore, through
Lucknow, the Nepaul people would be for ever quieted, with half of the force we now keep up
to look after them; and the N. W. Provinces become more closely united to Bengal, to the vast
advantage of both. I mentioned that we should require a considerable loan to begin with; but
I think that an issue of paper money, receivable in Oude in revenue, and payable to public
establishments in Oude, might safely be made to cover all the outlay required to pay off odd
establishments and commence the new work. Little money goes out of Oude, and the increased
circulating medium, required for the new public works and new establishments, would soon absorb
all the paper issued. It might be issued at little or no cost by the financial department of
the new administration. Though everybody knows that the King has become crazy and imbecile,
it would be difficult to get judicial proof that he is so, where the life and property of every
one are at his mercy and that of the knaves who now govern him. His every-day doings sufficiently
manifest it. There is not the slightest ground for hope that he will ever be any other than
what he now is, or that his children will be better. There are too many interested in depriving
them of all capacity for a part in public affairs that they may retain the reins in their own
hands when the children come of age to admit of their ever becoming better than their father
is. I have not lately made the reports which Lord Hardinge directed the Resident to make periodically,
but shall be prepared to resume them whenever your Lordship may direct. I suspended them on
account of hostilities with Burmah. I have printed eighteen copies of the establishments, as
they are and were last year, and as I proposed for the new system. I shall not let any one
have a copy till your Lordship permits it, and they are all at your disposal if required. This,
and the "Substantive Code," are the only papers connected with Oude, except the Diary that
I have had printed, or shall have printed, unless ordered by you.

             I remain, with great respect,
                  Your Lordship's obedient servant,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

P.S.--I believe that it is your Lordship's wish that the whole of the revenues of Oude should
be expended for the benefit of the royal family and people of Oude, and that the British Government
should disclaim any wish to derive any pecuniary advantages from assuming to itself the administration.

My Dear Sir,

I will reply to the queries contained in your letter of the 16th instant to the best of my
recollection. I was in Calcutta in January, 1838, when the late Dyce Sombre was there, and
about to embark for England. I had seen a good deal of him at Sirdhanah, in March 1836, soon
after the Begum Sumroo's death, and he afterwards spent a short time with me at Mussoorie,
and consulted me a good deal on the subject of a dispute with his father.

Colonel James Skinner and Dr. Drener were, I believe, executors to his will. Colonel Skinner
was at Delhi, and Dr. Drener had either gone home or was going, I forget which, and Dyce Sombre
asked me to consent to become one of his trustees, for the conduct of his affairs in this country.
I consented, and I think the circumstance was inserted in a codicil or memorandum added to
his will or deed; but my recollection on this point is not distinct.

I had, however, nothing to do with the conduct of his affairs in this country until the death
of Colonel James Skinner, which took place in December, 1841, when Mr. Reghilini, the overseer
or agent at Sirdhanah, got my sanction to the outlay for establishments, &c. At this time I
corresponded with Dyce Sombre, and continued to do so until his affairs were thrown into Chancery.
I then sought a lawyer's opinion as to my proper course, and refused to give Mr. Reghilini
any further orders. The opinion was, "that my only safe course was to do nothing whatever in
the conduct of his affairs;" and I never afterwards did anything. I never heard of any Colonel
Sheerman, and his name may have been inserted by mistake for mine; but I was then (1838) only
a major, and was not promoted until 1843. I never heard of any desire on the part of Dyce Sombre,
or the Begum Sumroo, to found a college other than as an appendage to the Sirdhanah church,
nor of his having given the residue of his property for the purpose; at least, I have no recollection
of having heard of such desire. I always hoped, and expected, until I heard of his marriage,
that he would return and reside at Sirdhanah.

Dyce Sombre always spoke to me of Mrs. Troup and Mrs. Soloroli as his sisters: he regarded
them alike as such, and so did the Begum Sumroo. I always understood them to be the children
of the same mother; but the question was never mooted before me, and I have always heard that
Mrs. Troup was very like Dyce Sombre in appearance, and that Mrs. Soloroli was not so.

Mr. Reghilini, who is, I believe, still at Sirdhanah, may know whether a Colonel Sheerman was
appointed executor or not. Dr. Drener must know. The notes which passed between me and Dyce
Sombre, after he left India, were on the ordinary topics of the day, and were destroyed as
soon as read. I have none of them to refer to, nor would they furnish any confirmation on the
matter in question if I had.

             Believe me, yours, very truly,
                 (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

Charles Prinsep, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Calcutta.

To Messrs. Molloy, Mackintosh, and Poe, Calcutta.

Dear Sirs,

In reply to your letter of the 16th instant, I enclose the copy of a letter addressed by me
on the 21st ultimo to Mr. Charles Prinsep, in reply to similar queries. To what I stated in
that letter I can add but little.

Dyce Sombre always spoke to me of Mrs. Soloroli and Mrs. Troup as his sisters, and of the former
as the eldest of the two; and Mrs. Troup spoke of Mrs. Soloroli as her eldest sister. They
were always treated by the Begum Sumroo as his sisters; and when Dyce Sombre went to England
I think he left the same provision for both in addition to what they had received from the Begum.

I was introduced to Mrs. Troup by her husband as an old friend on my way back from Mussoorie
in November, 1837, but I did not see Mrs. Soloroli, though she and her husband were at the
same place, Sirdhanah, at that time. They both lived under the curtain, secluded from the sight
of men, after the Hindoostanee fashion, as long as they remained in India, I think; and I was
introduced to Mrs. Troup as a friend of the family, whom all might require to consult. Her
husband only was present during the interview. Dyce Sombre had left the place for Calcutta.
I never heard a doubt expressed of their being sisters by the same mother and father till the
new will came under discussion at the end of last year.

I may refer you to pages 378 and 396 of the second volume of a work by me, entitled "Rambles
and Recollections," in which you will find it mentioned that the grandmother of Dyce Sombre
died insane at Sirdhanah in 1838. She must have been insane for more than forty years up to
her death. Her son Zuffer Yab Khan was a man of weak intellect, and he was the father of Dyce
Sombre's mother, of whom I know nothing whatever.

Dyce Sombre, showed no symptoms of derangement of mind while I knew him; but he inherited from
his grandmother a predisposition to insanity, which I apprehended might become developed by
any very strong feelings of excitement; and I urged him to return and settle at Sirdhanah,
when he had seen all he wished to see in Europe.

He saw a good deal of English society in India, and understood well the freedom which English
wives enjoy in general society; but I doubted whether he could ever thoroughly shake off his
early predilections for keeping them secluded. It would, I thought, be always to him a source
of deep humiliation to see his wife mix with other men in the manner in which English married
ladies are accustomed to do. Since his affairs were put into Chancery I have always felt persuaded
that this must have been the principal "exciting cause" acting upon the predisposition derived
from his grandmother, which led to it. I have never had the slightest doubt that he suffered
under an aberration of mind upon this point, though he never mentioned the subject in any of
his short letters to me from England, nor did he in any of them show signs of such aberration.

             Believe me, yours, faithfully,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

26th October, 1852.

                                       Lucknow, 28th October, 1852.

My Dear Sir James,

Your letter of the 6th ultimo reached me by the last mail, and I trust we shall see your hopes
of an early renewal of the Charter with few alterations realised. I entirely concur with you
in opinion that the power of recall is indispensable to the due authority of the Court; and
was much surprised to find Maddock opposed to it. Many thinking men at home have been of opinion
that the Ministers would secure for the Queen the nomination of a certain number to the Direction,
on the ground that many of the best men from India are deterred from becoming candidates by
the time and pledges required in the canvass. The late elections, however, seem to have come
in time to increase the Jealousy of ministerial influence, and prevent such a measure.

Hostilities with Burmah have prevented my making public periodical reports to Government about
Oude affairs since I submitted my Diary. I took the liberty to send, through my London agents
copy to yourself and the Deputy Chairman. Things have not improved since it was written. The
King is as regardless of his high duties and responsibilities as ever: he is, indeed, an imbecile
in the hands of a few fiddlers, eunuchs, and poetasters, and the minister, who is no better
than they are, and obliged to provide for all these men out of the revenues and patronage of
the country, and sundry women about the Court, also, to secure their influence in his favour.

The King contrives to get the stipends of those immediately about him, and of his mother, brothers,
and sisters, paid out of the revenues; but is indifferent about those of his more distant relatives,
and hardly any of them have had any stipends for the last two and even three years. Those who
happen not to have a little Company's paper given to them by former Sovereigns, or pensions
guaranteed by our Government and paid out of our Treasury, are starving, and pray for the day
when our Government may interpose in the administration. The expenditure is much above the
income, and the reserved treasury is exhausted; but the King has his jewels and some personal
property in Government notes, derived from his father and grandmothers. He thinks himself the
best of kings and the best of poets, and nothing will induce him willingly to alter his course
or make room for a better ruler or better system.

If our Government interpose, it must not be by negotiation and treaty, but authoritatively
on the ground of existing treaties and obligations to the people of Oude. The treaty of 1837
gives our Government ample authority to take the whole administration on ourselves, in order
to secure what we have often pledged ourselves to secure to the people; but if we do this we
must, in order to stand well with the rest of India, honestly and distinctly disclaim all interested
motives, and appropriate the whole of the revenues for the benefit of the people and royal
family of Oude. If we do this, all India will think us right, for the sufferings of the people
of Oude, under the present system, have been long notorious throughout India; and so have our
repeated pledges to relieve the people from these sufferings, unless the system should be altered.
Fifty years of sad experience have shown to us and to all India, that this system is incapable
of improvement under the present dynasty; and that the only alternative is for the paramount
power to take the administration upon itself.

Under the treaty of 1801, we took one-half of the territory of Oude, and that half yields to
us above two crores of rupees; though, when taken, it was estimated at one hundred and thirty-three
lacs. The half retained by the Oude Sovereign was estimated at the same; but it now yields
to the Sovereign only one crore. The rest is absorbed by the knaves employed in the administration
and their patrons at Court. All that is now so absorbed would come to the Treasury under us,
and be employed in the maintenance of efficient establishments, and the construction of useful
public works; and we should have ample means for providing for all the members of the royal
family of Oude.

We should derive substantial benefit from the measure, without in any degree violating our
declaration of disinterestedness. We now maintain five regiments of Infantry, and a company
of Artillery, at a cost of from five to six lacs a-year. We maintain the Residency and all
its establishments at a cost of more than one lac of rupees a- year. All these would become
fairly chargeable to the Oude revenues under the new administration; and we might dispense
with half the military forces now kept up at Cawnpore and Dinapore on the Ganges, as the military
force in Oude would relieve us from all apprehension as to Nepaul.

Oude would be covered with a network of fine macadamised roads, over which the produce of Oude
and our own districts would pass freely to the benefit of the people of both; and we should
soon have the river Ghagra, from near Patna on the Ganges, to Fyzabad in Oude, navigable for
steamers: with a railroad from Fyzabad, through Lucknow to Cawnpore, to the great benefit of
the North-West Provinces and those of Bengal.

Were we to take advantage of the occasion to annex or confiscate Oude, or any part of it, our
good name in India would inevitably suffer; and that good name is more valuable to us than
a dozen of Oudes. We are now looked up to throughout India as the only impartial arbitrators
that the people generally have ever had, or can ever hope to have without us; and from the
time we cease to be so looked up to, we must begin to sink. We suffered from our conduct in
Scinde; but that was a country distant and little known, and linked to the rest of India by
few ties of sympathy. Our Conduct towards it was preceded by wars and convulsions around, and
in its annexation there was nothing manifestly deliberate. It will be otherwise with Oude.
Here the giant's strength is manifest, and we cannot "use it like a giant" without suffering
in the estimation of all India. Annexation or confiscation are not compatible with our relations
with this little dependent state. We must show ourselves to be high-minded, and above taking
advantage of its prostrate weakness, by appropriating its revenues exclusively to the benefit
of the people and royal family of Oude. We should soon make it the finest garden in India,
with the people happy, prosperous, and attached to our rule and character.

We have at least forty thousand men from Oude in the armies of the three Residencies, all now,
rightly or wrongly, cursing the oppressive Government under which their families live at their
homes. These families would come under our rule and spread our good name as widely as they
now spread the bad one of their present ruler. Soldiers with a higher sense of military honour,
and duty to their salt, do not exist, I believe, in any country. To have them bound to us by
closer ties than they are at present, would of itself be an important benefit.

I can add little to what I have said in the latter end of the fourth chapter of my Diary (from
p. 187*, vol. ii.), on the subject of our relations with the Government of Oude; and of our
rights and duties arising out of those relations. The diaries political, which I send every
week or fortnight to the Government of India, are formed out of the reports made every day
to the Durbar, by their local or departmental authorities. The Residency News-writer has the
privilege of hearing these reports read as they come in; and though the reports of many important
events are concealed from him, they may generally be relied upon as far as they go. The picture
they give of affairs is bad enough, though not so bad as they deserve.

[* Transcriber's note. From the text "By the treaty of 1801 we bound ourselves......."--to
the end of the chapter IV in vol. ii]

There are so many worthless and profligate people about the Court, interested in smothering
any signs of common sense and good feeling on the part of the heir apparent to the throne,
in order to maintain their ascendancy over him as he grows up, that he has not the slightest
chance of becoming fit to take any part in the conduct of public affairs when he comes of age.
The present King has three or four sons, all very young, but it is utterly impossible for any
one of them to become a man of business; and it would be folly to expect any one of them to
make a better Sovereign than their father. He is now only twenty-eight or twenty-nine years
of age; but his understanding has become quite emasculated by over-indulgencies of all kinds.
He may live long, but his habits have become too inveterate to admit of his ever becoming better
than he now is or fit to be intrusted with the government of a country.

I shall recommend that all establishments, military, civil, and fiscal, be kept entirely separate
from those of our own Government, that there may be no mistake as to the disinterestedness
of our intentions towards Oude. The military establishments being like Scindiah's contingent,
in the Gwalior state, or the Hydrabad contingent in the Nizam's. I estimate the present expenditure
at, civil and fiscal establishments, and stipendiaries, 38 lacs. Military and police, 55. King's
household, 30. Total, 123 lacs. Establishments required for an efficient administration--civil
and fiscal--at 22 lacs. Military, 26 lacs. Families and dependents of former Sovereigns, 12
lacs. Household of the Sovereign, his sons, brothers, and sisters, 15 lacs. Total, 75 lacs.

This would leave an abundant store for public works, military stores, contingent charges, pension
establishments for the civil and military officers employed under us, &c. To pay off all the
present heavy arrears of stipends, salaries, to provide arms, ammunition, and stores, and to
commence upon all the public works, our Government would have either to give or guarantee a
loan; or to sanction the issue of a certain amount of paper money, to circulate exclusively
in Oude, by making it receivable in the Oude Treasuries in taxes.

The revenues would be at once greatly increased, by our taking for the treasury all that is
now intercepted and appropriated by public officers and Court favourites for their own private
purposes, by our making the great landholders pay a due portion of their assets to the state,
and by our securing the safe transit of raw produce and manufactured goods to their proper markets.

By adopting a simple system of administration, to meet the wishes of a simple people, we should
secure the goodwill of all classes of society in Oude; and no class would be more pleased with
the change than the members of the royal family themselves, who depend upon their stipends
for their subsistence, and despair of ever again receiving them under the present Sovereign
and system.

I hope a happy termination of the present war with Burmah will soon leave Lord Dalhousie free
to devote his attention to Oude affairs. As far as I am consulted, I shall advocate, as strongly
as may be compatible with my position, the measures above described, because I think they will
be found best calculated to benefit the people of Oude, to meet the wishes of the home Government,
and to sustain his Lordship's own reputation, and that of the nation which he represents throughout
our Eastern empire.

You are aware of some of the difficulties that I have had to contend with, in carrying out
important measures beneficial to the people, and honourable to the Government of India; but
in no situation in life have I ever had to struggle with so many as here, in pursuing an honest
and steady course of policy, calculated to secure the respect of all classes for the Government
which I represent. Such a scene of intrigue, corruption, depravity, neglect of duty, and abuse
of authority, I have never before been placed in, and hope never again to undergo; and I have
had to contend with bitter hostility where I had the best right to expect support. I have never
yet failed in the performance of any duty that Government has intrusted to me, and, under Providence,
I hope that I shall ultimately succeed in the performance of that which I have committed to
me here.

Lucknow is an overgrown city, surrounding an overgrown Court, which has, for the last half
century, exhausted all the resources of this fine country; and so alienated the feelings of
the great body of the people that they, and the Sovereign, and his officers, look upon each
other as irreconcileable enemies. Between the city, the pampered Court and its functionaries,
and the people of the country beyond, there is not the slightest feeling of sympathy; and if
our troops were withdrawn from the vicinity of Lucknow, the landholders and sturdy peasantry
of the country would, in a few days, rush in and plunder and destroy it as a source of nothing
but intolerable evil to them.

Though I have written a long letter, I may have omitted many things which you wished me to
notice. In that case I must rely upon your letting me know; and in the mean time, I shall continue
to write whenever I have anything to communicate that is likely to interest you.

                Believe me, dear Sir James,
                           Yours very faithfully,
                                W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir James Weir Hogg, Bart.
    &c.     &c.     &c.

P.S. By treaty, we are bound to keep up a certain force near the capital for the protection
of the Sovereign; and we should be obliged, till things were quite settled under the new system,
to retain the brigade we now have of our regular troops in the cantonments, which are three
miles from the city.

                                W. H. SLEEMAN.

                                       Lucknow, 20th November, 1852.

My Dear Sir James,

To be prepared for accidents, I deem it right to send a duplicate of the letter which I sent
to you by the last mail, addressed to the care of my London agents, Messrs. Denny and Clark,
Austin Friars. I have nothing new or interesting to communicate from Oude. The Burmese war
seems likely to divert the Governor-General's attention from Oude and Hydrabad affairs for
some time to come; and the death of the Duke of Wellington, and probable changes in the ministry
at home, may prevent him from venturing upon any important change in the Oude administration
when that war closes.

The war is an "untoward event," arising from a very small cause; and it should prevent our
ever guaranteeing British subjects in countries where we have no accredited agents to conduct
our relations with the Government. All such subjects, and all the subjects of our European
and American allies, should in future be made to understand that they enter such countries
entirely upon their own responsibility. Without some such precaution we must always be liable
to be involved in war with bordering countries by adventurers of one land or another; and as
war is almost always followed by annexation or confiscation, our Indian empire, like that of
the Romans, must soon sink from its own weight. The people will think that we are perpetually
seeking pretexts for war in order to get new territories, and the general or universal impression
will be dangerous.

When the public press of England abuse those who have to conduct the present war for delay,
they do not sufficiently consider our ignorance of the state of the rivers and of the military
resources of the country in which it was to be carried on when we entered upon it. We did not
know that the rivers were navigable, nor did we know how they were defended; nor did we know
what forces Burmah could muster, nor how they were distributed. It was not intended to commence
the war till after the rains, when it would be safe to move troops over the country; for it
was not reasonable to suppose that the Government of the country could be so haughty and insolent
without military force to support its pretensions, and we have often had sad experience of
the danger of underrating the power of an enemy. The object of the earlier movement was merely
to secure some points of support, at which to concentrate our forces as they came up, and not
to advance at once on the capital or into the country at a season when no troops could move
by land.

Our strong arm was, no doubt, the steam flotilla; but it would have been madness in us, with
our ignorance of the rivers and resources of the country, to have calculated upon conquering
Ava by steamers alone. With what we now know, people may safely say that General Godwin has
failed to make all the use he might of the flotilla, as Lord Gough failed to make all the use
he might of his "strong arm," the artillery, in the battles of the Punjaub; but Lord Gough
was not ignorant of the country in which he had to operate, nor of the resources of the country
he had to contend with. According to previous calculations, the war ought not to have begun
till this month. The earlier movement has, however, been of great advantage--it has taught
us what the rivers and resources of the country are; and, what is of still more importance,
what the people and their feelings towards their Government and ours are. It is manifest that
they fully appreciate the value of the protection which the people, under our rule, enjoy;
and that they have neither religious nor political feelings of hostility towards us; and that
the people of Pegu, at least, would hail the establishment of our rule as a blessing.

You were so kind as to express a wish to see my son. He is now with his regiment, the 16th
Lancers, in Ireland, and has lately obtained his Lieutenancy. He will be twenty years of age
in January. I will make known to him your kind wish, and doubt not that he will pay his respects
when he visits London. Pray do me the favour to have this corrected.--W. H. S.

My Lord,

Your Lordship's wishes in regard to the papers on Oude affairs shall be strictly attended to.
They are locked up in my box, and no one shall see them. I had no wish to print any but those
I mentioned in my last letter, and they are locked up with the others, which I have not looked
at since I left your Lordship's camp; the Diary, excepted.

Things in Oude are just as they were; and the King's ambition seems to be limited to the reputation
of being the best drum-beater, dancer, and poet of the day. He is utterly unfit to reign; but
he is himself persuaded that no man can be more fit than he is for anything, and he will never
willingly consent to make over the reins of Government to any one. It would be impossible to
persuade him to abdicate even in favour of his own son, much less to resign his sovereignty
in perpetuity. If our Government interpose, it must be by the exercise of a right derived from
the existing relations between the two Governments, or from our position as the paramount power
in India.

Of this your Lordship will have to consider and decide when your mind is relieved from Burmese
affairs, which appear to be drawing very quietly to a close. I shall not write publicly about
Oude affairs generally till I have your Lordship's commands to do so. The Diary will continue
to be transmitted regularly; but the Periodical General Report will be suspended.

Mr. Bushe remained a few days at Lucknow. He has since seen Agra, Bhurtpoor, and other places,
and is now on his way back to Calcutta, well pleased with his tour.

          With great respect,
               Your Lordship's obedient Servant,
                                  W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Most Noble The Marquis of Dalhousie, K.T., Governor-General of India.

                                       Lucknow, 2nd January, 1853.

My Dear Sir James,

I enclose two sets of Tables of Errata for the Diary, and must pray you to do me the favour
to have one set put into the two volumes of the copy you have, and the other sent to the Deputy-Chairman
for insertion in his copy. I did not take the liberty to send a copy to the President of the
Board of Control, but if you think I should do so, I will.

The King of Oude is becoming more and more imbecile and crazy, and his servants continue more
and more to abuse their power and neglect their duty. The King, every day manifests his utter
unfitness to reign, in some new shape. He, on several occasions during the Mohurrum ceremonies
which took place lately, went along the streets beating a drum tied round his neck, to the
great scandal of his family and the amusement of his people. The members of his family have
not been paid their stipends for from two to three years, and many of them have been reduced
to the necessity of selling their clothes to purchase food. All classes, save the knaves who
surround him, and profit by his folly, are become disgusted with and tired of him.

I do not interfere, except to protect our pledges and guarantees; and to conduct the current
duties of the Residency in such a manner as to secure the respect of all classes for the Government
which I represent. While the present King reigns, or has anything whatever to do with the Government,
no interference could produce any substantial and permanent reform. The minister is a weak
man and a great knave; but he has an influence over his master, obtained by being entirely
subservient to his vices and follies, to the sacrifice of his own honour; and by praising all
that he does, however degrading to him as a man and a sovereign.

Though the King pays no attention whatever to public affairs or to business of any kind, and
aims at nothing but the reputation of being the best dancer, best versifier, and best drummer
in his dominions, it would be impossible to persuade him that any man was ever more fit to
reign than he is. Nothing would ever induce him willingly to abdicate even in favour of his
own son, much less to make him willingly abdicate in perpetuity in favour of our Government,
or make over the conduct of the administration to our Government. If, therefore, our Government
does interfere, it must be in the exercise of a right arising out of the existing relations
between the two States, or out of our position as the paramount power in India. These relations,
under the Treaty of 1837, give our Government the right to take upon itself the administration,
under present circumstances; and, indeed, imposes, upon our Government the duty of taking it:
but, as I have already stated, neither these relations nor our position, as the paramount power,
gives us any right to annex or to confiscate the territory of Oude. We may have a right to
take territory from the Nizam of Hyderabad in payment for the money he owes us; but Oude owes
us no money, and we have no right to take territory from her. We have only the right to interpose
to secure for the suffering people that better Government which their Sovereign pledged himself
to secure for them, but has failed to secure.

The Burmese war still prevents the Governor-General from devoting his attention to Oude and
Hyderabad. In the last war we did not march our armies to the capital because we were not prepared
to supply a new Government for the one which we should thereby destroy; and insurrection and
civil war must have followed. Our conduct in that was wise and benevolent. When we moved our
armies to Rangoon this time, we upset one Government without providing the people with another.
The Governor-General could not provide for the Civil Government, because he could not know
that the Government of Ava would force us to keep possession of any portion of its dominions;
and taking upon ourselves the civil administration would compromise the people, should he have
to give them up again to their old rulers. The consequence has been great suffering to a people
who hailed us as deliverers. The folly of supposing that any country can be taken by steamers
on their rivers alone has now become sufficiently manifest. The Governor-General has however,
adopted the best possible measures for securing ultimate good government to Pegu. It would
have been more easily effected had they been taken earlier, but this circumstance prevented.

There is a school in India, happily not yet much patronised by the Home Government nor by the
Governor-General, but always struggling with more or less success for ascendancy. It is characterised
by impatience at the existence of any native State, and its strong and often insane advocacy
of their absorption--by honest means, if possible--but still, their absorption. There is no
pretext, however weak, that is not sufficient, in their estimation, for the purpose; and no
war, however cruel, that is not justifiable, if it has only this object in view. If you know
George Clerk or Mr. Robertson, both formerly Governors of our North-West Provinces, they will
describe to you the school I mean. They, I believe, with me, strongly deprecate the doctrines
of this school as more injurious to India and to our interest in it, than those of any other
school that has ever existed in India. Mr. George Campbell is one of the disciples of this
school.--See the 4th chapter of his "Modern India." The "Friend of India" is another, and all
those whom that paper lauds most are also disciples of the same school. The Court of Directors
will have to watch these doctrines carefully; and I wish you would speak to George Clerk and
Mr. Robertson about them. They are both men of large views and sound judgment.

               Believe me, My Dear Sir James,
                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Sir James Weir Hogg,
    &c.   &c.   &c.

                                       Lucknow, 12th January, 1853.

My Dear Sir James,

I wrote to you on the 23rd October, 20th November, and the 2nd of this month; I mention this
lest any of my letters miscarry; of the first letter I sent a duplicate on the 2nd, but I shall
not send duplicates of the last two, or of this. I now write chiefly to call your attention
to a rabid article in the "Friend of India," of the 6th of this month, written by Mr. Marshman,
when about to proceed to England, to become, it is said, one of the writers in the London "Times."
Of coarse, he will be engaged to write the Indian articles; and you will find him advocating
the doctrines of the school mentioned in my last letter of the 2nd of this month. I consider
their doctrines to be prejudicial to the stability of our rule in India, and to the welfare
of the people, which depends on it. The Court of Directors is our only safeguard against these
Machiavellian doctrines; and it may be rendered too powerless to stem them by the new arrangements
for the Government of India. The objects which they propose for attainment--religion, commerce,
&c.--are plausible; and the false logic by which they attempt to justify the means required
to attain them, however base, unjust, and cruel, is no less so. Few old officers of experience,
with my feelings and opinions on this subject, now remain in India; and the influence of this
school is too great over the rising generation, whose hopes and aspirations they tend so much
to encourage. Mr. Elphinstone, Mr. Robertson, and George Clerk will be able to explain their
danger to you. India must look to the Court of Directors alone for safety against them, and
they will require the exertion of all its wisdom and strength.

Mr. Robertson will be able to tell you that, when I was sent to Bundelcund, in 1842, the feelings
of the people of that province were so strongly against us, under the operation of the doctrines
of this school, that no European officer could venture, with safety, beyond the boundary of
a cantonment of British troops; and their servants were obliged to disguise themselves in order
to pass from one cantonment to another. In a brief period, I created a feeling entirely different,
and made the character of British officers respected and beloved. In the Gwalior territories
the same result was obtained by the same means. However impulsive on other occasions, Lord
Ellenborough behaved magnanimously after his victories over the Gwalior troops; but in sparing
the State, he acted, I believe, against the feelings of his Council, amongst whom the doctrines
of the absorbing, annexing, and confiscating schools prevailed; and the "Friend of India" condemned
him, though the invasion was never justified, except on the ground of expediency. Had I, on
these occasions, adopted the doctrines of the absorbing school, I might have become one of
the most popular and influential men in India; but I should, at the same time, have rendered
our rule and character odious to the people of India, and so far have injured our permanent
interest in the country. I mention all this merely to show that my opposition to the doctrines
of this school is not new, nor in theory only, but of long standing and practice, as far as
my influence has extended. I deem them to be dangerous to our rule in India, and prejudicial
to the best interests of the country. The people see that these annexations and confiscations
go on, and that rewards and honorary distinctions are given for them, and for the victories
which lead to them, and for little else; and they are too apt to infer that they are systematic,
and encouraged, and prescribed from home. The native States I consider to be breakwaters, and
when they are all swept away, we shall be left to the mercy of our native army, which may not
always be sufficiently under our control. Such a feeling as that which pervaded Bundelcund
and Gwalior in 1842 and 1843, must, sooner or later, pervade all India, if these doctrines
are carried out to their full extent; and our rule could not, probably, exist under it. With
regard to Oude, I can only say that the King pursues the same course, and every day shows that
he is unfit to reign. He has not the slightest regard for the duties or responsibilities of
his high position; and the people, and even the members of his own family, feel humiliated
at his misconduct, and grow weary of his reign. The greater part of these members have not
received their stipends for from two to three years, and they despair of ever receiving them
as long as he reigns. He is neither tyrannical nor cruel, but altogether incapable of devoting
any of his time or attention to business of any kind, but spends the whole of his time with
women, eunuchs, fiddlers, and other parasites. Should he be set aside, as he deserves to be,
three courses are open: 1. To appoint a regency during the minority of the heir-apparent, who
is now about eleven years of age, to govern with the advice of the Resident; 2. To manage the
country by European agency during the regency, or in perpetuity, leaving the surplus revenue
to the royal family; 3. To confiscate and annex the country, and pension the royal family.
The first plan was prescribed by Lord Hardinge, in case of accident to the King; the second
is what was done at Nagpore, with so much advantage, by Sir Richard Jenkins in 1817; the third
is what the absorbing school would advocate, but I should most deprecate. It would be most
profitable for us, in a pecuniary point of view, but most injurious, I think, in a political
one. It would tend to accelerate the crisis which the doctrines of that school must, sooner
or later, bring upon us. Which course the Governor-General may prefer I know not.

My Dear Sir,

I shall send you by this mail a copy of my Diary under cover, addressed, as you suggest, to
Mr. Secretary Melvill. It is coarsely bound, as I could find no good binder here. I printed
eighteen copies, and have sent one to Government, in Calcutta, for itself, and one for the
Court of Directors; one to the Governor-General, and one each to the Chairman and Deputy-Chairman.
I have also sent one to a brother, and one to each of my five children. All to whom I have
sent it of my family have been enjoined to consider it as private and confidential, and they
will do so. Government may publish any portion of it they please. A memorandum of errata has
been added to the copy to be sent to you.

Over and above what you justly observe as to the cultivation and population not being much
diminished, and the State not having incurred any public debt, I may mention the fact noticed,
I believe, somewhere in the Diary, that the landed aristocracy of the half of Oude, reserved
in 1801, has been better preserved than that of the half made over to us. Had they not combined
generally against the Government, they would all have been crushed ere this, as ours have been.
This makes me mention a school of too much influence in India, of whose doctrines I have a
great abhorrence. They are best expounded by the so-called "Friend of India," in the last number
of which (6th January, 1851) there is a rabid article on the subject worthy of your perusal,
and that of all men interested in the welfare of India and the stability of our rule over it.
It is in the true Machiavellian spirit, which justifies, or would persuade the world to justify,
every means, however base, dishonest, and cruel, required to attain any object which they have
persuaded themselves to be desirable for ourselves. This school is impatient at the existence
of any native principality in India, however related to or dependent upon us. Mr. George Campbell
is a disciple of this school, almost as rabid as the "Friend of India," as you will see in
the fourth chapter of his book on "Modern India." If Mr. Marshman is to write the Indian articles
for the "Times," as reports give out, you will see these doctrines advocated in that influential
journal. The Court of Directors is the only safeguard of India, and of our stability in it,
against those doctrine which, in my opinion, tend strongly to the injury of both; and its power
may be rendered too powerless to shun them.

               Believe me,
                    My Dear Sir,
                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Colonel Sykes, Director Hon. East India Company, London.

P.S.--I have felt much interested in the geology of Central and Southern India; and if you
have seen any satisfactory account of the origin of the stratum which caps the basaltic plateau,
shall feel obliged if you will point it out to me.

                                       Lucknow, 24th April, 1853.

My Dear Sir,

By the last mail I received from a friend in London two articles, whose merits had been much
canvassed at the clubs, one from the London "Times," of the 9th February, and the other from
the "Daily News," a Manchester paper. The "Times" article must have been written by Mr. J.
Marshman, or one of the most rabid members of the school of which he is the great organ, and
whose chief characteristic is impatience at the existence of any native territorial chief or
great landholder in India. The other article is a reply to it, and generally supposed to have
been written by Sir George Clerk. I feel quite sure that it was written either by him or by
Mr. T. C. Robertson, who preceded him in the government of our North-West Provinces. The article
from the "Times" has been noticed in most of the Indian papers--the "Friend of India," April
7th, 1853, and the "Englishman," 15th April. But I have not seen that in the "Daily News" noticed
in any Indian papers, though admirably written. I intended to send it to you, but have mislaid
it. I think you can advocate the cause it adopts more consistently, more powerfully, and more
wisely than any other editor now in India. I hope you will do so; for I consider the doctrines
of the "Times" disgraceful to our morality, and dangerous to the stability of our rule. As
I consider the welfare of the people of India to depend upon the stability of our rule, I am
very anxious to see the fallacies of the atrocious doctrines which endanger it ably exposed.
In no publication are these fallacies more obvious or more numerous than in Mr. George Campbell's
"Modern India," chapter fourth, with, perhaps, the exception of the "Friend of India." With
the "Friend," the theory of confiscation and annexation has become a disease, and he cannot
praise or even tolerate any public officer or statesman who is not known to be a convert to
the doctrines of this school.

I forget the date of the "Daily News" in which Sir George Clerk's article appeared, but it
was immediately after the article appeared in the London "Times" of the 9th February. I hope
you will give the article a prominent place in your paper, for it really deserves to be printed
in letters of gold. Though I feel that the character of our nation, and our safety in India,
are compromised by the open avowal of such atrocious doctrines in our leading journals, still
the orders against officers in political employ writing in the papers are so strict, that I
dare not attempt to expose the fallacies on which they are based, or express the indignation
which they excite in me, in any public paper. To my superiors, and in the discharge of my public
duties, I shall never cease to express my abhorrence of such doctrines, for I look upon them
as worse than any that Machiavelli ever wrote.

                      Believe me,
                           Yours very sincerely,
                 (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To G. Buist, Esq.

P.S.--Of course, this note will be considered as confidential.

                 (Signed)         W. H. S.

                                       Lucknow, 24th April, 1853.

Dear Sir,

An article in your paper of the 15th instant, on the subject of the international law of India,
has interested and pleased me much. It has reference to an article in the London "Times" of
the 9th February last; and I write to invite your attention to an article which appeared in
the "Daily News," a Manchester paper, in reply to it, written by Sir G. Clerk, lately Governor
of Bombay. Both these articles have been much discussed at the London clubs, and the morality
of the "Daily News" article has been very favourably contrasted with that of the article in
the "Times." The article in the "Times" is supposed to have been penned by Mr. J. Marshman
himself, or by one of the most rabid members of the school whose Machiavellian doctrine he
advocates.

These doctrines are considered by some of our wisest statesmen to be as dangerous to the stability
of our rule in India as they are disgraceful to our morality; and as these statesmen consider
the well-being of the people of India to depend upon that stability, they are always glad to
see their fallacies exposed and their iniquities indignantly denounced by the moat able and
steady of our public journalists. I hope you will be able to find the able article in the "Daily
News" to which I refer, and consent to give it a prominent place in the "Englishman." It was
sent to me by a friend in London, but I have, unfortunately, mislaid it. This note will, of
course, be considered as confidential.

                           Yours sincerely,
                                  W. H. SLEEMAN.

To W. C. Harry, Esq.

                                       Lucknow, 5th June, 1853.

My Lord,

I have read with great interest in the English journals your Lordship's able Minute on the
Burmese war, and am glad that it has been published, as it cannot fail to disabuse the public
mind at home, and bring about a reaction in the feeling of the people excited by some very
unfair articles in the London "Times." I attributed these articles to the Napiers, who, however
talented, are almost always wrong-headed.

I am persuaded that the new Sovereign will acquiesce in your possession of Pegu, and that he
would not have ceded it by treaty under any circumstances. The old Sovereign might have done
it, though at great risk, but the new Sovereign could not dare to do it.

Our own history affords us instances enough of powerful ministers anxious, for the public good,
to get rid of conquered, but expensive and useless possessions, but deterred from proposing
the measure by the dread of popular odium, which ambitious and factious rivals are always ready
to excite.

There is one argument against the advance which I do not think that your Lordship has urged
with the force of the rest. While the new Sovereign remains undisturbed in the rest of his
dominions he will maintain his authority over them, and do his best to prevent our new frontier
from being disturbed, knowing that we can advance to his capital and punish him if he does
not. But, were he to be driven from his capital, all the rest of his dominions would soon fall
into a state of anarchy, and our frontiers would soon be disturbed by leaders of disorderly
bands, anxious to carve out principalities for themselves, and having no other means than plunder
to maintain their followers. For the acts of such men we could hold no one responsible, after
we had driven their Sovereign from his capital to the hills and jungles; and half a century
might elapse before order could be restored. In the mean time, wealth would be growing up within
our border to invite their aggression, while they would become poorer and poorer from disorders,
and more and more anxious to seize upon it.

With regard to an advance upon Amarapoora, it will not be difficult after the rains, if circumstances
render it necessary. The Madras cattle are much better for hard work and all climates than
those of Bengal, and sufficient could be collected for the occasion by sea. Your Lordship's
reasons for not trusting to steamers alone are unanswerable, and it seems impossible for a
land and river force to act jointly. In this, we almost realize the contest between the winds
and the moschettoes before the court of the genii in the Arabian tale: when the winds appeared,
the moschettoes could not, and when they appeared, the winds could not. For the prestige of
our own name in the rest of India, to advance to the capital and then give the rest of the
country to the Sovereign might, perhaps, be the best; but for the security of our new acquisition,
and that of the people of the rest of Burmah, it would certainly be better to stay where we
are. The benefits of our rule might, by degrees, be imparted to that of the rest of Burmah.
The Government would be obliged to treat their people better than they have done in order to
keep them.

Here everything still is what I have described it to be so often; that is, as bad as it can
be. The King is the same, and the officers and favourites whom he employs are the same. I shall
not write public reports on the state of affairs till I learn that your Lordship wishes it,
which will be, I conclude, when you have carried out your arrangements in Burmah.

The terrible war of races in China, to which I have been looking forward for some years, seems
to be coming slowly on. I wrote to Sir H. M. Elliot about it some two or three years ago, and
recommended him to write a better life than we have of Jungez Khan, in order to show what the
Tartars now really are. When he led his swarms of them over China, Central Asia, and a great
part of Europe, they worshipped the god of war; they now worship the god of peace: but there
are millions of Lamas in Tartary who would change their crosiers for the sword at the call
of a kindred genius, and are now impatient to do so, and prophesying his advent, just at the
time that the rebels threaten the capital of China and the extinction of the Tartar dynasty.
That dynasty will throw itself upon Tartary, and a new one will be raised by the successful leader.

Dear Sir,

Your letter of the 20th instant perplexes me a good deal. I have no place in my own office
to offer you, and I never recommended any one for employment to the King. You cannot, according
to rules laid down for our guidance, act as an advocate in any case before the Resident or
his assistants. All landholders in Oude, except the few whose estates are included in what
is called the Hozoor Tuhseel, transact their business through the Amils, Chuckladars, and Nazims
of districts, and have nothing to do directly with the Durbar at Lucknow. Having nothing to
do with their affairs, I cannot have anything to say with the employment by them of wakeels,
or advocates. They, the landholders, generally employ native wakeels, who are willing to bear
a good deal of ill-treatment on the part of Durbar officials for the sake of very small salaries.
Your situation as a wakeel on their part would be ill remunerated and exceedingly humiliating.

If the son of Ghalib Jung has offered to introduce you to the minister, and to assist in getting
employment for you at Lucknow, he must, I think, do so in the hope of being able to make use
of you in some intrigue; for those only who can aid in such intrigues are fostered and paid
at Lucknow. Honest men can get nothing, and find no employment about the Court. If you secure
employment about the Court, I cannot hold any communication with you. I should compromise myself
by doing so. In your situation, I would rather be a section writer in Calcutta, or at Agra,
than hold any employment in the Oude Durbar that you can get by honest means. One of the tasks
imposed on you would be, I conclude, to praise bad persons and things, and abuse good, in the
newspapers. This, of course, you would not do, and you would be punished accordingly. I strongly
advise you to have nothing to do with Oude at present.

                           Yours very truly,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To G. Norton, Esq., Azimgurh.

                                       Lucknow, 11th August, 1853.
My Dear Sir,

Your brother, the late Lieut.-Colonel Ouseley, was a valued friend of mine. Before his appointment
as Governor-General's Agent of the south-eastern frontier districts, he had for many years
held the civil charge of different districts in the Sangor and Nerbudda territories. I had
for many years the civil charge of districts bordering on those under his charge, and abundant
opportunity of seeing how much he had made himself beloved, and the character of his Government
respected, by the manner in which he conducted the duties confided to him.

When I became Commissioner over those territories in 1844, I passed through the districts which
had so long been under his charge, and I can honestly say that I have never known a man who
had made himself more beloved and revered by the people. Thousands of happy families were proud
to acknowledge that they owed all their happiness to the careful and liberal revision of the
settlement of the land-revenue made by him, in which he had provided for the interests of the
higher and middle classes connected with the land, while he secured the rights of the humblest.

I visited at the same time the districts of those territories which bordered upon his then
charge of the south-east frontier, and communed with many people from that quarter. They all
spoke of him as beloved and respected by all classes as much in his then charge as he had been
in his old one. In a country where it is the duty of every Englishman to make the character
of his Government and his nation respected and beloved, one cannot but feel proud to hear a
countryman and fellow-labourer spoken of by tens of thousands of respectable, contented, and
happy people as your brother was and still is. I know no part of India where the people of
all classes and all grades are so attached to our character and our Government as that of the
Saugor and Nerbudda territories, and I believe that no man did more to establish that fine
feeling than your brother.

Your brother's temper was warm, and he was not always happy in putting his thoughts and feelings
to paper. Hence arose occasional misunderstandings with his official superiors. But while those
superiors were men who could understand and appreciate his noble nature, such occasional misunderstandings
never led to serious consequences. In the bitterness of his anguish, after his removal from
the south-east frontier, he wrote to me; and it was most painful to me to feel that I was not
in a position, or in circumstances, to advocate his cause, and describe the value of such a
man as the representative of the Government and the national character among a wild and half-civilized
people like those over whom he had been placed. I think it was on the representation of the
late Mr. Launcelot Wilkinson, one of the most able and estimable members of the India Civil
Service, that he was sent to the south-east frontier. He had seen his value in the Saugor and
Nerbudda districts while he was political agent at Bhopaul, which bordered on the districts
under your brother's charge.

It has been to me a source of much regret that I have not had it in my power to aid his son
in getting employment in India.

                       Believe me,
                           Yours very truly,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Major Ouseley,
    &c.   &c.

                                       Lucknow, 14th September, 1853.

Dear Sir,

The King of Oude will certainly not assist you to get up a newspaper at Lucknow; and you will
certainly be disappointed if you come in expectation of such assistance from him. If you can
get into his service in any other capacity, I am not aware of any objections to it, but as
I have already told you and many others, I cannot recommend any one for employment under him.
The humiliations to which honest and respectable Christians have to submit in his service,
from the jealousies of influential persons about the Durbar, are such as few can or ought to
submit to; and I certainly would not advise any one to enter such a service. Under whatever
pledge or whatever influence they might enter it, their tenure of office and their pay would
be altogether precarious, and the Resident would be unable to assist them in retaining the
one or recovering the other.

                           Yours faithfully,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To G. Norton, Esq.

P.S.--The King of Oude and his family are in no danger from the British Government, on whose
good faith they repose. I only wish that his honest and industrious subjects were as safe from
the officers whom he employs in all branches of the administration, and from whom they are
nowhere safe I fear.

                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

                                       Lucknow, 27th September, 1853.

My Dear James,

Under the circumstances you mention, I see but one course open to you; and that is, to recommend
to the Government of Bombay to do as Lord William Bentinck did in the Bengal Presidency under
similar circumstances, appoint a special Commissioner for the trial of offenders under Acts
XX.[sic] of 1836, and XXIV. of 1843; or for the revision of trials under these Acts, conducted
by Sessions' Judges.

The first would be the best if feasible; but the second would do, since the Sessions' Judges
seem now to be disposed to give their aid to Government in putting down the evil, and the Sudder
Judges do not. Formerly, I believe, the Sudder Judges were so disposed, and the Sessions Judges
not. In my reply to the Government of Bombay, you will see reference made to Lord William's
appointment of Mr. Stockwell as special Commissioner. He was at the time Commissioner of the
Allahabad division, and the work was imposed upon him in addition to his other duties.

If the Bombay Government does not think it has authority to appoint such a special Commission,
they may apply to the Legislative Council to pass an Act authorising the Government of every
Presidency to appoint such a Commission when circumstances may render it necessary.

This will be better and safer than to frame and enforce new rules of evidence for the guidance
of existing Judicial Courts. The one would be for a special emergency, and temporary; and Government
would not be very averse to it; but the other they certainly would not venture upon, particularly
at this time. A great fuss would be made about it here and at home; and lawyers are too influential
in both places.

You can show that there is no alternative--that this system of crime must be left to prosper
in the Bombay Presidency, where alone it now prevails, or such a Commission must be appointed;
and as the Acts and the machinery for giving effect to them have succeeded in putting it down
in all the rest, it would be hard to leave the people of Bombay exposed to all the evils arising
from the want of such a special Commission. Such Commissions have been adopted to relieve the
people from the hardships of the resumption laws, which affected but a small portion of the
community; and you hope it would not be considered unreasonable in you to propose one for the
relief of the whole community; for the life and property of no family will be safe an hour,
if these classes of offenders by hereditary profession are assured that they may carry on their
trade with impunity, as they must be if your agency be withdrawn, and all the prisoners be
released.

If you make a forcible representation to the Bombay Government in this strong case, they will
adopt the measure if they have the power, or ask the power from the supreme Government; and
I think the supreme Government will give it. I would say a special Commission for the trial
of commitments under XXX. of 1836, and XXIV. of 1843, or a special Commission for the revision
of trials under these Acts, as may seem best to Government; but you can say that you think
the first would answer the purpose best in the Bombay Presidency. You may offer to run down
to Bombay and submit your views to the Government in Council if required. They would not think
it necessary, but would be pleased with the offer. Where men are committed on the general charge,
it has always been thought necessary to show that the gang committed a murder or a robbery,
though it is not so to show what part the prisoners took in them. If your assistant has not
done this, he has failed in a material point. He should be very cautious in dealing with whole
classes. The fault of our Bombay assistants has always been a disposition to make offenders
of whole classes, when only some of the members are so.

You must make your best of the present case--show the necessity of the remedy clearly, and
urge it respectfully without pretending to find fault with the Judges; merely say that their
interpretation of the laws of evidence laid down for their guidance, however conscientious,
forms an insurmountable obstacle to the conviction of offenders by hereditary profession, whose
system has been founded upon the experience of their ancestors in the most successful modes
of defeating these laws, and the technicalities of ordinary Judicial Courts. This is, I think,
all that I can say on the subject at present. The Moncktons leave us this evening, and Amelie
intends to set out for the hills on the 6th proximo.

                           Yours affectionately,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain J. Sleeman.

                                       Lucknow, 28th September, 1853.
My Dear James,

On further consideration, I think that you should say nothing about the second proposal of
a special Commissioner to revise the trials of offenders tried by Sessions Judges. You should
suggest the first proposal of a special Commissioner to try all prisoners committed for trial
under Acts XXX. of 1836, and XXIV. of 1843, and perhaps also XI. of 1841. See my Printed Report,
page 357.

You may mention that such Commissioner should be required to submit his sentences for the consideration
and final orders of Government, as all political officers did till March, 1835; or merely for
the information of Government, as political officers did after that time.

On the 23rd of March, 1835, the Secretary to the Government of India forwarded to the Resident
of Lucknow, for his guidance, the copy of a letter addressed on that date to the Agent of the
Governor-General in the Saugor and Nerbudda territories, requesting that he would carry into
execution his sentences on Thugs, and not make any reference to Government for confirmation,
but merely submit to Government abstract statements of sentences; but desiring that the sanction
of the King of Oude should be required before any capital sentence was carried into effect.
No capital sentence was from that time passed. As all prisoners will be tried on the general
charge, no capital sentence will ever be passed by the special Commissioner, and the Bombay
Government may be disposed to give him the same orders. But the Governor in Council at Bombay
will be the best judge of that.

Lord Falkland may possibly be deterred by apprehensions that late events may have altered the
tone of feeling at home towards him; but I am persuaded that he would be glad to carry this
measure into effect. I will send you a copy of the Government letter to the Resident here;
and you may get from the agent's office a copy of that sent on the same date to him, though
you may not readily find that office under the new arrangements. You will, I think, have a
strong case, and I wish you success in it.

                           Yours affectionately,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Captain Jas. Sleeman.

                                       Lucknow, 4th November, 1853.

My Dear Malcolm,

I should recommend for the Baee a money stipend for life of five thousand rupees a-month, with
the understanding that if she adopted a child she would have to provide for him out of her
savings from this stipend, and out of her private property. All the Rajah's private property,
save what he may will away to others, will of course be left to her, to be disposed of as she
may think fit. But this stipend should be independent of those to be continued to the stipendiaries
of the Rajah. There are several who have nothing else to depend on but the stipends which they
now receive from the Rajah; and it must be borne in mind that they have no longer Bajee Rao,
Benaek Rao, the Jhansi and Saugor chief, to go to. This will be the last of the Brahmin dynasties
founded in that part of the world by the Peshwas. Our Government should therefore be liberal
in taking possession of the estate as an escheat.

The Mahratta language in accounts should at once be done away with; but out of the revenues
of the estate, Government should found a good school for English and Hindoo, and Persian; and,
above all, for a very good hospital and dispensary, under well educated and tried surgeons,
native and European, capable of throwing out branches.

All the public officers of the Rajah should have stipends or employment, or both, in proportion
to their period of service and respectability. If they take employment the stipends should
be deducted from their salaries while in office, as in our own service.

In the case of the Baee Regent at Saugor, we continued a small part of her pension to her adopted
son,--one thousand rupees a-month,--to enable him to provide for her non-pensioned dependents.
We took the management long before her death, and left her only a private lady, with a large
pension of, I think, eight thousand rupees a-month; besides pensions--too large--to the family
of her manager, Benaek Rao: this will be unnecessary at Jhansi. All the large hereditary landholders
of the Jhansi estate should have liberal settlements at fixed rates. They are all from the
landed aristocracy of Bundelcund, and should be treated with consideration. The first settlement
of the land revenue should be very moderate. The lands will lose the most valuable market for
their produce in the breaking up of the Court and establishment of the Rajah at the capital,
and yield less money, &c., than before. This must be borne in mind.

You may freely use these my views as you think best on the Jhansi question.

As to the management, I should make as little changes possible, till the final orders arrive
from the Court of Directors, that you may have nothing to undo of what you have done. I would
leave the management to Ellis, under your supervision, and interfere only on references in
special cases, except, of course, on emergency. I know not what the system is to be, or what
system the Governor-General has recommended, except that there is to be one head, as in Rajpootana;
and that all correspondence with Government is to go through that head, In this state of the
matter I know not what to suggest or say.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Major Malcolm,
    &c. &c.

                                       Lucknow, 11th November, 1853.
My Lord,

I feel grateful for your Lordship's letter of the 27th ult., but cannot say that I have any
hope of discovering the instruments employed, or the employer, in the late affair. The whole
power of the Government is in the hands of men who are deeply interested in concealing the
truth, and making it appear that no attempt was really made. The minister has, by his intrigues,
put himself so much in the power of the knave whom I suspect, that he dares not do anything
to offend him. The man could at once ruin him by his exposures if he chose, and he would do
so if he found it necessary for his own security. The man is biding his time, as he has often
done with former ministers; and the time would have come ere this had not the King, to save
himself, married one of the minister's pretty daughters.

The King's chief consort; was the niece of the minister, and her son is the heir-apparent;
so that it was her interest, and that of her uncle, the minister, to get rid of the King as
soon as possible. She is a profligate woman, and the King's mother is supposed to have given
him a hint of his danger. He took a liking to one of the daughters, and married her, in order
to make it the minister's interest to keep him alive as long as possible. He now contrives
to make the King believe that neither his life nor reign can be in any danger as long as he
is in his present position.

The night after this affair took place, a sipahee of the 35th Native Infantry, standing sentry
at one end of the house, fell asleep while he was leaning with his right wrist on the muzzle
of his musket. The musket went off; the ball passed through his wrist, grazed a large beam
above him, struck against a stone in the roof of the portico, and fell down flattened by the
side of the sentry, as he lay insensible and bleeding on the ground below. The wrist was sahttered,[sic]
and several of the arteries cut through. He bled profusely, and when taken up he talked incoherently,
declaring that some man had fired at him from behind the railing, twenty paces off. I have
seen similar cases of incoherency, arising from a similar cause. As soon as day appeared the
ball was found, and its marks on the beam and stone above showed the real state of the case.
His right knee was probably leaning on the lock of the musket when he fell asleep. I have made
no public or official report of this circumstance to Government.

I have now before me a curious instance of the difficulty of getting at the truth when it is
the interest of the minister and others about this Court to prevent it. A wanton attack was
made in April last by about one hundred armed men, led by one of the King's collectors, on
a native British subject coming from Cawnpore to visit a brother in Oude. The man himself received
a wound, from which he some days afterwards died at Cawnpore; two of his attendants were killed,
and twenty thousand rupees were taken from him. I have investigated the case myself, with the
aid of my assistant, Captain Hayes, and with the attendance of an assessor on the part of the
King. The case is a very clear one, but they have produced about thirty witnesses to swear
that no man of the poor merchant's party was hurt; and that, instead of being attacked, he
invaded the Oude territory with more than one hundred armed followers, and wantonly attacked
the King's party of only fifteen unoffending men, while engaged in the discharge of their duty
in collecting the revenue. I have translated the depositions with the prospect of having ultimately
to submit the case to Government, unless the King consents to punish the offenders and afford
redress. The assessor, an old man, bewildered by the conflicting testimony, and anxious to
escape from all responsibility, slept soundly through the greater part of the inquiry, which
has been a very tedious one.

                                       Lucknow, 28th December, 1853.

My Dear Mr. Colvin,

I was glad to see your handwriting again, and to find that time had made so little alteration
in it. Oude affairs are, as you suppose, much as they used to be, save that the King is now
persuaded by his minister and favourite that, had his predecessors had men and women about
them so wise as they are, they never would have acted as if they believed that the Government
of India ever really intended to carry into effect the penalty of misgovernment, so often threatened.
Our Government has cried "wolf" so often that no one now listens to it. The King is an utter
imbecile, from over-indulgences of all kinds; and the knaves whom he employs in his administration
contrive to persuade him that the preservation of his life and throne depends entirely upon
their vigilance and his doing nothing. Had I come here when the treasury was full, and Naseer-od
Doon Hyder was anxious to spend his money in the manner best calculated to do good and please
our Government, I might have covered Oude with useful public works, and much do I regret that
I came here to throw away some of the best years of my life among such a set of knaves and
fools as I have to deal with.

I think you will do much good in your present charge in the subject to which you refer. In
the matter of discourtesy to the native gentry, I can only say that Robert Martin Bird insulted
them whenever he had the opportunity of doing so; and that Mr. Thomason was too apt to imitate
him in this as in other things. Of course their example was followed by too many of their followers
and admirers; but, like you, I have been delighted to see a great many of the elder members
of the civil service, in spite of these bad examples, treat the native gentry with all possible
courtesy, and show them that they had their sympathy as long as they deserved it by their conduct.

It has always struck me that Mr. Thomason, in his system, did all he could to discourage the
growth of a middle and upper class upon the land--the only kind of property on which a good
upper and middle class could be sustained in the present state of society in India. His village
republics and the Ryutwar system of Sir Thomas Munro had precisely the same tendency to subdivide
minutely property in land, and reduce all landholders to the common level of impoverishment.
The only difference was that the impoverished tenants in the North- Western Provinces were
supposed to manage their own affairs, while those at Madras had them managed by a very mischievous
class of native public officers. He (Mr. Thomason) would have forced his village republics
upon any new country or jungle that came under his charge, and thereby rendered improvement
impossible. I would have introduced into all such new countries a system of paternal government
in imitation of our Government of India itself, which would have rendered improvement certain,
and the growth of a middle and higher class no less so. He would have put the whole under our
judicial courts, and thereby have created a middle class of pettifogging attorneys to swallow
up all the surplus produce of the land. I would have kept the whole of the land in the hands
of our fiscal courts, by making it all leasehold property, and maintaining the law of primogeniture
in all estates of villages. Mr. Thomason, I am told, systematically set aside all the landed
aristocracy of the country as a set of middlemen, superfluous and mischievous.

The only part of our India in which I have seen a middle and higher class maintained upon the
land is the moderately-settled districts of the Saugor and Nerbudda territories; and there
is no part of India where our Government and character are so much beloved and respected. You
have sent Mr. Read to that part; and if he be bigoted to Mr. Thomason's system, he will upset
all this, and, in my opinion, lay the foundation of much evil. We found a system of paternal
government in every village, and maintained and improved it. They were all little principalities;
and by the printed rules of the Sudder Board of Revenue, which are very good, all the sub-tenants
were effectually secured in their rights.

In making a tour through Oude in the end of 1849 and beginning of 1850 I had a good deal of
talk with the people. Many of them had sojourned in our territories in seasons of disturbance.
The general impression was that they would be glad to see the country taken under British management,
provided we could dispense with our tedious procedure in civil cases. They all had a very unfavourable
impression of our civil courts, and of the cost and delay of the procedure. Mills and Harrington,
to whom the duty, which was to have devolved on you, has been confided, may do much good, and
I hope will, for there really is nothing in our system which calls so much for remedy. I am
persuaded that, if it were to be put to the vote among the people of Oude, ninety-nine in a
hundred would rather remain as they are, without any feeling of security in life or property,
than have our system introduced in its present complicated state; but that ninety- nine in
a hundred would rather have our Government than live as they do, if a more simple system, which
they could understand, were promised at the same time.

In 1801, when the Oude territory was divided, and half taken by us and half left to Oude, the
landed aristocracy of each were about equal. Now hardly a family of this class remains in our
half, while in Oude it remains unimpaired. Everybody in Oude believes those families to have
been systematically crushed. If by-and-by we can get the people to take an interest in our
railroads, and outlays upon other great public works, it will tend to create the middle class
upon which I set so much value, and to give that feeling of interest in the stability of our
rule which we so much require. We shall then have objects of common interest to talk and think
about, and become more united with them in feeling.

Maddock is in Ceylon, but intends to return by the steamer which is to leave Calcutta on the
5th proximo. His speculations there have been failures. Had he looked after his estates there
instead of joining the effete party of the Derbyites he might have done well. He has made great
mistakes, and he now suffers for them. His support of Lord Torrington was his first.

                      Believe me,
                           Yours very sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Mr. Colvin.

                                       Lucknow, 5th March, 1854.
My Dear Low,

I have to-day written to Government a letter, which you will of course see, on the subject
of a proposal made to me by Mr. B. Government will, I have no doubt, consider the reason assigned
by me for refusing to permit him to send an European agent to Lucknow, ostensibly to collect
debts, sufficient; but whether it will consent to adopt my suggestion, and empower the Resident
to assure the King that it will not again consent to permit Mr. B. to return and reside at
Lucknow, after he has been twice expelled for his misdeeds, I know not. One thing is certain,
that his residence at Cawnpore, under the assurance from the minister that he shall come back
and be made wealthy if he can aid in getting rid of the Resident, is very mischievous.

B., Wasee Allee, and the Minister, succeeded in persuading the King that Shurfod Dowla, and
all the most respectable members of the Lucknow aristocracy, had signed a memorial to the Government
of India, praying that it would set aside the present King as an incompetent fool, and put
Mostafa Alee on the throne in his place. All this was reported by me to Government on the 2nd
of March, 1853.

The seals were all forged or filched here at Lucknow, but the papers were written in Calcutta,
under the agency, I believe, of Synd Jan, Sir H. E.'s moonshee, from Bilgram, where his family
have long enjoyed an estate rent-free, for the aid he has given to the minister in his intrigues.
I have never been able to remove this delusion from the mind of the imbecile King; and it is
the "raw" on which these knaves have been ever since acting; for it enables the minister to
persuade him that his vigilance-alone preserves his life and crown.

The minister is aware that I know all this, and may some day be able to show the King how he
has been deluded and befooled by him; and he would give all he is worth to get rid of me in
any way. He would give any sums to B. and his other agents to bribe editors to write against
me; but the only editors who have yielded have been those of the "Mofussilite," before Mr.
C. took the management. Mr. B. complains at Cawnpore, that he gave Mr. L. a large sum to do
his dirty work at home; but that he did nothing for it. This is not unlikely. That the minister
and Wasee Alee got up the attempt at the Residency, either to make away with me, or to alarm
me into going away, I am persuaded; but to get judicial proof of it I shall not attempt. It
would be vain here, where the minister has all the revenues of the State to work with.

All the native gentlemen whose seals were forged to this document, look to me for protection;
and they have been ever since in a state of great alarm. It was to keep up this alarm that
they tried to turn Shurfod Dowla out of Oude. I had rarely seen him before that time; and I
have only seen him once since he went to the cantonments; and then only for five minutes during
my walk in the garden, to talk about Mulki Jahan's affairs. They punish any one who ventures
to approach the King; and they would ruin any one who ventured to approach the Resident if
they could, lest he might open the eyes of the King to the iniquities they commit. The troops
are starved, and almost all the old members of the royal family, who had no Government paper
or guarantees, have been already starved or driven out. Oude has never before been afflicted
by a Sovereign so utterly imbecile and regardless of his duties and the sufferings of his people;
nor has there ever been a minister so utterly regardless of his own reputation and that of
his master. He bribes with money, power, and patronage, every one who has access to the King,
to sound his praise in prose or verse; and the King is persuaded that his life and throne depend
upon his abstaining altogether, from interfering in the conduct of affairs.

When I was in the Governor-Generals camp at Futtehgur, M. H., the son of S. A. K., came there
armed, I knew, with four lacs of rupees. He was an old acquaintance of E.'s, and he (E.) told
me that he had asked for an interview, and asked me whether he ought to consent to see him.
I told him that, if he did see him, he must make up his mind to the man's persuading the King
that he had given him the greater part of the money, though the man himself kept all that he
did not give to his moonshee. He refused to see the man; but he has ever since been with Mr.
L. at Allahabad, intriguing with his people to chouse men out of their ancient possessions;
or with the Oude people, to keep up the raw they have established on the King's mind. The King,
by over-indulgence, has reduced his intellect below the standard of that of a boy of five years
of age. It is painful to talk to a man with a mind so utterly emasculated.

Our Government would be fully authorized at any time to enforce the penalty prescribed in your
treaty of 1837, and it incurs great odium and obloquy for not enforcing it. But Lord D. has,
no doubt, solid reasons for not taking such responsibility upon himself at this time. I do
all I can to save the people, and the people are sensible of what I do, and grateful for it;
for the Resident is the only person they can look up to with any hope. If Government can comply
with my wish to have the King assured that it will not permit Mr. B. to return and reside at
Lucknow again, it will be of great use to me and to the people, for the hopes held out to him
are like a premium offered for my head, or for my ruin; and one never feels very comfortable
under such offers, at any time or in any country. The reckless lies which this man gets adventurers
at Cawnpore to write for him, and careless or corrupt editors to publish, are apt to stagger
those who do not know the vile character of the individual, or the true nature of the facts
referred to.

I am glad you saw W. He is a man of high character and first-rate ability, and has abundance
of sagacity and energy. I miss him very much. He will be a credit to his regiment if engaged
on active service.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Colonel Low, C.B.

P.S.--I shall say nothing in this of your domestic bereavement, though I have felt much for you.

                                  W. H. S.

In my public letter, I have referred to that of the Marquess of W. to L., when he was Resident.
Do refer to it Page 388, Vol. 1., "Despatches."

                                       Lucknow, 1st June, 1854.

My Dear Low,

In my letter of the 10th of November, 1853, I solicited permission to retain Weston with me
for reasons stated therein. In reply, I was told, in Mr. Dalrymple's letter of the 2nd of December,
"that the Governor-General in Council had every wish to consult my views, but, for the present
at least, his Lordship in Council thinks that Lieutenant Weston must in fairness be required
to join his regiment, like other officers."

I am so very anxious to have his services again in the office he filled, that I have to-day
ventured, in a public letter to the Foreign Secretary, to request that he will submit my wishes
to the Governor-General in Council, should they deem the state of affairs in Burmah at present
to be such as to admit of his being withdrawn from his regiment I have said, in my public letter,
that should any exigency arise he could, of course, quickly join his regiment on service again.

If you can give me any assistance in obtaining his services, I shall feel very much indebted
to you, for I have that confidence in his abilities and high-mindedness which I cannot feel
in those of his locum tenens; and I am very anxious to keep things in good train here till
the end of the cold weather, when I must go on leave to recruit. I am really in a very difficult
position here, not with regard to the King, for he has, I believe, entire confidence in me;
but he has become so entangled with his minister, that he is afraid of him; and the minister
would give all he has (and he has all the revenues of the country) to get me out of the way.

I carried the Government orders regarding Shurfod Dowla into effect, and he is now, with his
family, quiet and safe. The King behaved very well, and resisted all the attempts of the minister
to persuade him to remonstrate. I am to-day to submit Shurfod Dowla's letter of grateful thanks
to Government. I hope Government will not write to him in reply, as this might mortify and
vex the King, since he is not written to by the Governor-General.

I think I told you of the raw the minister, Wasee Alee and Co., had established on the King's
mind--the belief that a party of the members of the royal family and native gentlemen at Lucknow
had been trying to persuade Government to set him aside, and put his reputed brother, Mostafa
Alee, on the throne. Whenever they want to make the King angry with any one, they tell him
that he is a leader in this cabal. But the King is, by degrees, growing out of this folly.
There never was on the throne, I believe, a man more inoffensive at heart than he is; and he
is quite sensible of my anxious desire to advise him rightly, and see justice done in all cases.
But I am a sad stumbling-block to the minister and the other bad and incompetent officers employed
in the administration.

If you wish it, I will be more circumstantial about Weston's locum tenens, Lieut. B., of the
1st Cavalry. For his own repute, and that of the Government, I think the less he has to do
with the political department the better. He would be better in a military staff appointment
than a political one.

                           Yours sincerely,
                  (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Hon. Colonel Low, C.B.

                                       Lucknow, 11th September, 1854.

My Lord,

