The position of the new paper was by now firmly established. It had a large subscription list;
it was eagerly bought on the streets; and its advertising was increasing. King again turned
his attention to Palmer, Cook & Co. Each day he treated succinctly, clearly, without rhetoric,
some branch of their business. By the time he had finished with them he had not only exposed
their iniquities, he had educated the public to an understanding of the financial methods of
the times. His tilting at this banking firm had inevitably led him to criticism of certain
of their subterfuges to avoid or take advantage of the law; and that as inevitably brought
him to analysis and condemnation of the firm's legal advisers, James, Doyle, Barber & Boyd,
a firm which had heretofore enjoyed a good reputation. Incidentally he called attention to
duelling, venal newspapers, city sales, gambling, Billy Mulligan, Wooley Kearney, Casey, Cora,
Yankee Sullivan, Martin Gallagher, Tom Cunningham, Ned McGowan, Charles Duane, and many other
worthies, both of high and low degree. Never did he fear to name names and cite specific instances
plainly. James King of William dealt in no innuendoes. He had found in himself the editor he
had wished for, the man who would call a spade a spade.

The Bulletin twice enlarged its form. It sold by the thousand. Its weapon of defence was the
same as its weapon of offence--pitiless and complete publicity. Measures of reprisal, either
direct or underhand, undertaken against him, King published often without comment.

At the first some of the cooler heads thought it might be well to reason with him.

"The man has run a muck," said old Judge Girvin, "and while I am far from denying that In many--perhaps
in most--cases his facts are correct, still his methods make for lawlessness among the masses.
It might be well to meet him reasonably, and to expostulate."

"I'd expostulate--with a blacksnake," growled the fiery Terry.

A number waited on King. Keith was among them. They found his office in a small ramshackle
frame building, situated in the middle instead of alongside one of the back streets. It had
probably been one of the early small dwelling-houses, marooned by a resurvey of the streets,
and never since moved. King sat in his shirtsleeves before a small flat table. He looked up
at them uncompromisingly from his wide-apart steady eyes.

"Gentlemen," he greeted them tentatively.

Judge Girvin seated himself impressively, his fat legs well apart, his beaver hat and cane
poised in his left hand; the others, grouped themselves back of him. The judge stated the moderate
case well. "We do not deny any man the right to his opinion," he concluded, "but have you reflected
on the effect such an expression often has on the minds of those not trained to control?"

King listened to him in silence.

"It seems to me, sir," he answered, when Judge Girvin had quite finished, "that if abuses exist
they should be exposed until they are remedied; and that the remedy should come from the law."

"What is your impelling motive?" asked the judge. "Why have you so suddenly taken up this form
of activity? Do you feel aggrieved in any way-- personally?"

"My motive in starting a newspaper, if that is what you mean, is the plain one of making an
honest if modest living. And, incidentally, while doing so, I have some small idea of being
of public use. I have no personal grievance; but I am aggrieved, as every decent man must be,
at the way the lawyers, the big financial operators, and the other blackguards have robbed
the city," stated King plainly.

Judge Girvin, flushing, arose with dignity,

"I wish you good-day, sir," he said coldly, and at once withdrew.

Keith had been watching King with the keenly critical, detached, analytical speculation of
the lawyer. He carried away with him the impression of a man inspired.

At the engine house, to which the discomfited delegation withdrew, there was more discussion.

"The man is within his legal rights so far," stated Judge Girvin. "If any of his statements
are libellous, it is the duty of the man so libelled to institute action in the courts."

"He's too smooth for that," growled Jones.

"He'll bite off more than he can chew, if he keeps on," said Dick Blatchford comfortably. "He's
stirring up hornets' nests when he monkeys with men like Yankee Sullivan. He's about due for
an awful scare, one of these days, and then he'll be good."

"Do you know, I don't believe he'll scare," said Keith suddenly, with conviction.

XXXVIII

As Keith surmised, intimidation had no effect. In such a city of fire- eaters it was promptly
tried. A dozen publically announced that they thirsted for his blood, and intended to have
it; and the records of the dozen were of determination and courage in such matters. He took
prompt notice of this fact.

Keith read this over John Sherwood's shoulder at the Monumental. The ex-gambler, his famous
benign spectacles atop his nose, chuckled over it.

"He doesn't scare for a cent, does he?" was his comment. "Strikes me I got out of the ranks
of the ungodly just in time. If I were still gambling, I believe I'd take some of those bets
he speaks of. He won't last--in this town. But I like his pluck--kind of. Only he's damn bad
for business!"

Saying which, John Sherwood, late gambler but now sincerely believing himself a sound and conservative
business man, passed the sheet over to Keith.

From vague threats the situation developed rapidly to the definite and personal. One Selover
sent a challenge to King, which was refused. Selover then announced his intention of killing
King on sight.

These detailed attacks and bold defiances had the effect of greatly angering those who were
the specific objects of attention; of making very uneasy the class to which these victims belonged;
of focussing on public matters a public sentiment that was just becoming conscious of itself
because of the pinch of hard times; and of rendering contemptuously indignant all of "higher"
society.

To this latter category Keith would undoubtedly have belonged--as did his wife and practically
all his friends--had it not been for his association with Krafft. Through him the young lawyer
came into intimate personal touch with a large class of people who would otherwise have been
remote from him. He heard of their difficulties and problems at first hand, saw the actual
effect of abuses that, looked at from above, were abstract or academic. Police brutality as
a phrase carried little significance; police brutality as a clubbing of Malachi Hogan, who
was brought in with his skull crushed, and whose blood stained Keith's new coat, meant something.
Waste of public funds, translated before his eyes into eviction for nonpayment of taxes, took
on a new significance. Keith saw plainly that a reform was needed. He was not, on that account,
in the least sympathetic with King's methods. Like Judge Girvin, he felt them revolutionary
and subversive. But he could not share the contempt of his class; rather he respected the editor
as a sincere but mistaken man. When his name came up for discussion or bitter vituperation,
Keith was silent. He read the Bulletin editorials; and while he in no way endorsed their conclusions
or recommendations, he could not but acknowledge their general accuracy. Without his knowing
it, he was being educated. He came to realize the need for better administration by the city's
officers and a better enforcement of the laws. Very quietly, deep down within himself, he made
up his mind that in the Assistant District Attorney's office, at least, the old order of things
should cease.

XXXIX

One afternoon Keith walked down Kearney Street deep in discussion of an important Federal case
with his friend, Billy Richardson, the United States Marshal. Although both just and an official,
Richardson was popular with all classes save those with whom his duty brought him into conflict.
They found their way deliberately blocked, and came out of the absorption of their discussion
to recognize before them Charles Cora, an Italian gambler of considerable prominence and wealth.
Cora was a small, dark man, nervously built, dressed neatly and carefully in the height of
gambler fashion. He seemed to be terribly excited, and at once launched a stream of oaths at
Richardson.

"What's the matter with you, Charley?" asked the latter, as soon as he had recovered from his
surprise.

Cora, evidently too incoherent to speak, leaped at the marshal, his fist drawn back. Keith
seized him around the body, holding his arms to his sides.

"Hold on; take it easy!" he panted. "What's up, anyway?"

Cora, struggling violently, gritted out:

"He knows damn well what's up."

"I'll swear I don't!" denied Richardson.

"Then what do you mean telling every one that my Belle insulted your wife last night at the
opera house?" demanded Cora, ceasing to struggle.

"Belle?" repeated Richardson equably. "I don't know what you're talking about. Be reasonable.
Explain yourself."

"Yes, I got it straight," insisted the Italian. "Your wife says it insults her to sit next
to my Belle, and you go everywhere telling it. What right you got to do that? Answer me that!"

"Now look here," said Richardson. "I was with Jim Scott all last evening. My wife wasn't with
me. If you don't believe me, go ask Scotty."

Cora had apparently cooled off, so Keith released him. He shook his head, grumbling, only half
convinced. After a moment he moved away. The two men watched him go, half vexed, half amused.

"He's crazy as a pup about that woman," observed Richardson.

"Who is she?" inquired Keith.

"Why, Belle--you know Belle, the one who keeps that, crib up your way."

"That woman!" marvelled Keith.

He spent the afternoon in court and in his office. About half-past six, on his way home, he
saw Cora and Richardson come out of the Blue Wing saloon together. They were talking earnestly,
and stopped in the square of light from the window. Richardson was explaining, and Cora was
listening sullenly. As Keith passed them he heard, the marshal say, "Well, is it all right?"
and Cora reply, "Yes." Something caused him to look back after he had gone a dozen yards. He
saw Cora suddenly seize Richardson's collar with his left hand, at the same time drawing a
derringer with his right.

"What are you going to do?" cried Richardson loudly and steadily, without straggling, "Don't
shoot; I am unarmed!"

Without reply Cora fired into his breast. The marshal wilted, but with iron strength Cora continued
for several moments to hold up his victim by the collar. Then he let the body drop, and moved
away at a fast walk, the derringer still in his right hand.

Keith ran to his friend, and with others carried him into a nearby drug store. The sound of
the shot almost immediately brought out a crowd. Keith, bending over the body of the murdered
man, could see them pressing about the windows outside, their faces showing white from the
lamps in the drug- store window or fading into the darkness  beyond. They crowded through the
doorway until driven out again by some of the cooler heads. Conjectures and inquiries flew
thick. All sorts of reports were current of the details, but the crowd had the main facts--Cora
had shot Richardson, Richardson was dead, Cora had been taken to jail.

"Then he's safe!" they sneered savagely.

Men had been shot on the streets before, many men, some of them as well known and liked as
Richardson; but not after public sentiment had been aroused as the Bulletin had aroused it.
The crowds continued to gather. Several men made violent street-corner speeches. There was
some talk of lynching. A storm of yes and no burst forth when the question was put. Bells rang.

"Who will be the next victim?" men asked. "What a farce!" cried some, in deep disgust. "Why,
the jailer is Cora's especial crony!" stated others, who seemed to know. "If the jury is packed,
hang the jury!" advised certain far-seeing ones. A grim, quiet, black-bearded man expressed
the undercurrent of opinion: "Mark my words," said he, "if Charles Cora is left for trial,
he will be let loose on the community to assassinate his third victim!" It seemed that Cora
had been involved in a previous shooting scrape. But to swing a mob to action there must be
determined men at its head, and this mob had no leaders. Sam Brannan started to say something
in his coarse, roaring voice, and was promptly arrested for inciting a riot. Nobody cared enough
seriously for the redoubtable Sam to object to this.

Keith did not join the throngs on the streets. Having determined that Richardson was dead,
he accompanied the body home. He was deeply stirred, not only by the circumstances of the murder,
but also by the scene at which he had to assist when the news must be broken to Mrs. Richardson.
From the house he went directly to King's residence, where he was told that the editor had
gone downtown. After considerable search and inquiry he at last got sight of his man standing
atop a wooden awning overlooking the Plaza in front of the jail. King nodded to him as he climbed
out of the second-story window to take his position at the newspaper man's side.

The square was a wild sight, filled, packed with men, a crowd of men tossed in constant motion.
A mumbling growl came from them continuously, and occasionally a shout. Many hands were upraised,
and in some of them were weapons. Opposite, the blank front of the jail.

King's eyes were shining with interest and a certain quiet exultation, but he seemed not at
all excited.

"Will they storm the jail?" asked Keith.

King shook his head.

"No, these people will do nothing. But they show the spirit of the time. All it needs now is
organization, cool, deliberate organization--to- morrow."

"That's just what I've hunted you out to talk about," said Keith earnestly. "There is much
talk of a Vigilance Committee. As you say, all it needs is the call. That means lawlessness,
bloodshed."

"Conditions at present are intolerable," said King briefly.

"I agree with you," replied Keith. King stared. "But in this case I assure you the law will
do its duty. It is an absolutely open and shut case. Acquittal is impossible. Why, I myself
was witness of the affair."

King looked skeptical.

"Hundreds of such cases have been acquitted, or the indictment quashed."

"But this is entirely different. In the first place, the case will come before Judge Norton
and Judge Hazen, both of whom you will acknowledge are honest. In the second place, this case
will be in my hands as Assistant District Attorney. I myself shall do the prosecuting, and
I promise you on my honour that every effort will be made for a deserved and speedy conviction.
I acknowledge justice has sometimes gone wrong in the past; but that has not been the fault
of the law, but of the administration of the law. If you have the least confidence in Judge
Norton and Judge Hazen, and if you can be brought to believe me, you will see that this one
case of all cases should not be taken from the constituted authorities or made the basis for
a movement outside the law."

"Well?" said King, half convinced.

"The Bulletin has the greatest influence with these people. Use it. Give the law, the honest
law, a chance. Do not get back of any Vigilante movement. In that way, I am convinced, you
will be of the greatest public service."

Next day the Bulletin came out vigorously counselling dependence on the law, expressing confidence
in the integrity of Hazen and Norton, and enunciating a personal belief that the day had passed
when it would be necessary to resort to arbitrary measures. The mob's anger had possessed vitality
enough to keep it up all night; but the attitude of the Bulletin, backed by responsible men
like Ward, Coleman, Hossiros, Bluxome, and others, averted a crisis.

XL

The popular excitement gradually died. It had no leaders. Coleman and men of his stamp, who
had taken command of similar crises in former times, counselled moderation. They were influenced,
partly by the fact that Richardson had been a public official and a popular one. Conviction
seemed certain.

Keith applied himself heart and soul to the case. Its preparation seemed to him, at first an
easy matter. It was open and shut. Although at the moment of the murder the street had not
been crowded, a half-dozen eye-witnesses of the actual shooting were easily found, willing
to testify to the essential facts. This fact in itself might have warned Keith, for McDougall
had the reputation of avoiding lost causes and empty purses. The lawyer promptly took as counsel
the most brilliant of the younger men, Jimmy Ware, Allyn Lane, and Keith's friend, Calhoun
Bennett. This meant money, and plenty of it, for all of these were expensive men. The exact
source of the money was uncertain; but it was known that Belle was advancing liberally for
her lover, and that James Casey, bound by some mysterious obligation, was active in taking
up collections. Cora lived in great luxury at the jail. He had long been a personal friend
of Sheriff Webb and his first deputy, Billy Mulligan.

Several months passed before the case could be forced to trial. All sorts of legal and technical
expedients were used to defer action. McDougall and his legal assistants were skilful players
at the game, and the points they advanced had to be fought out according to the rules, each
a separate little case with plenty of its own technicalities. Some of Keith's witnesses were
difficult to hold; they had business elsewhere, and naturally resented being compelled, through
no fault of their own, to remain. Keith had always looked on this play of legal rapiers as
a part--an interesting part--of the game; but heretofore he had always been on the obstructing
side. He worried a great deal. At length, by superhuman efforts, he broke through the thicket
of technicalities and brought the matter to an issue. The day was set. He returned home so
relieved in spirit that Nan could not but remark on his buoyancy.

"Yes," he responded, "I've managed to drive that old rascal, McDougall, into the open at last."

Nan caught at the epithet.

"But you don't mean that--quite--do you?" she asked. "The McDougalls are such delightful people."

"No, of course not. Just law talk," said Keith, quite sincerely. "He's handled his case well
up to now. I'm just exasperated on that account, that's all."

But setting the day irrevocably was only a beginning. The jury had to be selected. Sheriff
Webb had in his hands the calling of the venire. While it was true that the old-time, "professional
jurymen"--men who hung around the courthouse for no other purpose--were no longer in existence,
it can be readily seen that Webb was able, if it were worth while, to exercise a judicious
eye in the selection of "amenables." The early exhaustion of Keith's quota of peremptory challenges
was significant, for McDougall rarely found it desirable to challenge at all! Keith displayed
tremendous resource in last-moment detective work concerning the records of the panel. In this
way he was enabled to challenge several for cause, after all his peremptory challenges had
been used. At first he had great difficulty in getting results, for the police detectives proved
supine. It was only after he had hired private agents, paying for them from his own pocket,
that he obtained information on which he could act. The final result was a jury better than
he had dared hope for, but worse than he desired. He had gone through a tremendous labour,
and realized fully the difference between being for or against the powers.

The case came to trial, Keith presented six witnesses--respectable, one of them well-known.
These testified to the same simple facts, and their testimony remained unshaken under cross-examination.
McDougall offered the plea of self-defence. He brought a cloud of witnesses to swear that Cora
had drawn his weapon only after Richardson had produced and cocked a pistol. By skilful technical
delays Keith gained time for his detectives, and succeeded in showing that two of these witnesses
had been elsewhere at the time of the killing, and therefore had perjured themselves. He recalled
his own witnesses, and found two willing to swear that Richardson's hands had been empty and
hanging at his sides, The defence did not trouble to cross-examine this statement.

At last, with a perfunctory judicial charge, the case went to the jury. Keith, weary to the
bone, sat back in grateful relaxation. He had worked hard, against odds, and had done a good
job. He was willing now to spare a little professional admiration for McDougall's skilful legal
manoeuvring. There could be no earthly doubt of the result. He idly watched the big bland-faced
clock, with its long second hand moving forward by spaced jerks. The jury was out a very long
time for so simple a verdict, but that was a habit of California juries. It did not worry Keith.
He was glad to rest. The judge stared at the ceiling, his hands clasped over his stomach. Cora's
lawyers talked together in a low voice. Flies buzzed against dusty window-panes. The spectators
watched apathetically. Belle, in a ravishing toilet, was there.

The opening of the door broke the spell almost rudely. Keith sat up, listening to the formal
questions and answers. They had disagreed!

For a moment the import of this did not penetrate to Keith's understanding. Then he half rose,
shouted "What!" and sank back stunned. His brain was in confusion. Only dimly did he hear the
judge dismissing the jury, remanding Cora for retrial, adjourning court. Instantly Cora was
surrounded by a congratulatory crowd. Keith sat alone. McDougall, gathering up his papers from
the table assigned to counsel, made some facetious remark. Keith did not reply. McDougall looked
at him sharply, and as he went out he remarked to Casey:

"Keith takes this hard."

"He does!" cried Casey, genuinely astonished. "They were trying to tell me he was altogether
too active in this matter; but I told them he was young and had his way to make, and was playing
to the gallery."

He sauntered across the room.

"Well, Milt," he cried in a jovial voice, but watching the young lawyer narrowly, "the Lord's
on the side of true virtue, as usual."

Keith came to himself, scowled, started to say something, but refrained with an obvious effort.

Casey wandered back to McDougall.

"You're right, Mac," he said. "I guess he's got the swell head. We'll have to call him off
gently, or he'll make a nuisance of himself at the next trial. He makes altogether too much
trouble."

But McDougall was tolerant.

"Oh, let him alone, Jim. He's got his way to make. Let him alone. We can handle the situation."

XLI

Keith left the courtroom in a daze of incredulity. This was his first serious defeat; and he
could not understand it. The case was absolutely open and shut, a mere question of fact to
which there were sufficient and competent witnesses. For the moment he was completely routed.

As he emerged to the busy crowds on Kearney Street a sudden repugnance to meeting acquaintances
overcame him. He turned off toward the bay, making his way by the back streets, alleys, and
slums of that unsavoury quarter. But even here he was not to escape. He had not gone two blocks
before he descried Krafft's slight and elegant figure sauntering toward him. Keith braced himself
for the inevitable question.

"Well," it came, "how goes the trial?"

The words released Keith's pent flood of bitterness. Here was an outlet; Krafft was "safe."
He poured out his disappointment, his suspicion, his indignation. The little man listened to
him in silence, a slight smile, sketching his full, red lips. When Keith had somewhat run down,
Krafft, without a word, took him by the arm and led him by devious ways down to the water-front
portion of the city. There he planted him near the entrance of a dark alley.

"Now you wait here," Keith was told.

Keith obeyed. The interval was long, but he had much to occupy his mind. After a time Krafft
returned in company with a slouching, drink-sodden bummer of powerful build and lowering mien,
the remains of a forceful personality. This individual shambled along in the wake of the dapper
little Krafft quite meekly and submissively.

"Here you are," said the latter briskly, and with a sort of nonchalant authority. "Come, now,
Mex, tell Mr, Keith what you know about the Cora trial. Go on!" he urged, as the man hesitated.
"He's not going to 'use' you--he doesn't even know who you are or where you're to be found,
and I'm not going to tell him. Speak up, Mex! I tell you I want him to know how things stand."

Keith by now was acquainted with many of Krafft's proteges, but he had never met the delectable
Mex. Evidently the latter had long known Krafft, however, for he acknowledged his authority
unquestioningly.

"It's like this, boss," he began in a hoarse voice. "You don't know me, like Mr. Krafft says,
but there's plenty that do. I got a lot of infloonce down here, and when anybody wants anything
they know where to come to get it, which is right to headquarters--here," he slapped his great
chest.

"Get on," interrupted Krafft impatiently. "We'll take it for granted that you are a great man."

Mex looked at him reproachfully, but went on:

"About this Cora trial: they come to me for good, reliable witnesses, and I got 'em, and drilled
'em. There ain't nobody in it with me for making any witness watertight."

"How many witnesses?" prompted Krafft.

"Eight," replied Mex promptly.

"How much?"

"Well, they give me five thousand fer to git the job done," admitted Mex, with some reluctance.

"Hope they got some of it," commented Krafft.

"Who gave you the money?" demanded Keith.

But Krafft interposed.

"Hold on, my son, that isn't ethics at all! You mustn't ask questions like that, must he, Mex?
Very bad form!" He turned to Keith with a crisp air of decision. "That's what was the matter
with your trial; I just thought I'd show you. Go on, Mex, get out," he commanded that individual,
good- humouredly. "I'm not particularly proud of you, but I suppose I've got to stand you.
Only remember this: Mr. Keith is my friend. Swear him out of the high seats of heaven--if you
can--because that's the nature of you; but let him walk safely. In other words, no strong-arm
work; do you understand?"

The man mumbled and growled something.

"Nonsense, Mex," interrupted Krafft sharply. "Do as I say.

"It's a matter of a tidy sum," blurted out Mex at last.

Krafft laughed.

"You see, you were already marked for the slaughter," he told Keith; then to Mex:

"Well, you let him alone; he's my friend."

"All right, if you say so," growled the man.

"You're safe--as far as Mex and all his people are concerned," said Krafft to Keith. "Our word
is always good, when given to a friend; isn't it, Mex?"

The man nodded, awkwardly and slouched away.

Keith's depression had given place to anger. He had been beaten by unfair means; his opponent
had cheated at the game, and his opponent enjoyed the respect of the community as a high-minded,
able, dignified member of the bar. It was unthinkable! A man caught cheating at cards would
most certainly be expelled from any decent club.

"I'll disbar that man if it's the last act of my life!" He cried, "He's not fit to practise
among decent men!"

He left Krafft standing on the corner and smiling quietly, and hurried back to his office.

XLII

It was unfortunate for everybody that Morrell should have chosen that particular afternoon
to pay one of his periodical calls. Morrell had been tactful and judicious in his demands.
Keith was not particularly afraid of his story or the effect of it if told, but he disliked
intensely the fuss and bother of explanations and readjustments. It had seemed easier to let
things drift along. The transactions were skilfully veiled, notes were always given, Morrell
was shrewd enough to take care that it did not cost too much. There existed not the slightest
cordiality between the men, but a tacit assumption of civil relations.

But this afternoon the sight of Morrell, seated with what seemed to Keith a smug, superior,
supercilious confidence in the best of the office chairs, was more than Keith could stand.
He was bursting with anger at the world in general.

"You here?" he barked at Morrell, without waiting for a greeting. "Well, I'm sick of you! Get out!"

Morrell stared at him dumbfounded.

"I don't believe I understand," he objected.

"Get out! Get out! Get out! Is that plain enough?" shouted Keith.

Morrell arose with cold dignity.

"I cannot permit--" he began.

Keith turned on him abruptly.

"Look here, don't try to come that rot. I said, get out--and I mean it!"

So menacing was his aspect that Morrell drew back toward the door.

"I suppose you know what this means?" he threatened, an ugly note in his quiet voice.

"I don't give a damn what it means," rejoined Keith with deadly earnestness, "and if you don't
get out of here I'll throw you out!"

Morrell went hastily.

Keith slammed his papers into a drawer, locked it and his office door, and went directly to
the office of the Bulletin. There, seated in all the chairs, perched on the tables and window
ledges, he found a representative group. He recognized most of them, including James King of
William, Coleman, Hossfros, Isaac Bluxome, Talbot Ward, and others. A dead silence greeted
his appearance. He stopped by the door.

"You have, of course, heard the news," he said. "I have come here to state unequivocally, and
for publication, that the Cora trial will be pushed as rapidly and as strongly as is in the
power of the District Attorney's office. And if legal evidence of corruption can be obtained,
proceedings will at once be inaugurated to indict the bribe givers."

A short silence followed this speech. Several men looked toward one another. The tension appeared
to relax a trifle.

"I am glad to hear this, sir, from your own lips," at last said Coleman formally, "and I wish
you every success."

Another short and rather embarrassed silence fell.

"I should like to state privately to you gentlemen, and not for publication"--Keith, paused
and glanced toward King, who nodded reassuringly--"that I have evidence, but unfortunately
not legal, that James McDougall has been guilty, either personally or through agents, of bribery
and corruption; and it is my intention to undertake his disbarment if I can possibly get proper
evidence."

"Whether he bribed or didn't bribe, he knew perfectly well that Cora was guilty," stated King
positively. "And he had no right to take the case."

But at that period this was an extreme view, as it still is in the legal mind.

"I suppose every man has a moral right to a defence," said Coleman doubtfully. "If every lawyer
should refuse to take Cora's case, as you say McDougall should have refused, why the man would
have gone undefended!"

"That's all right," returned King, undaunted, "He ought to have a lawyer-- appointed by the
court--to see merely that he gets a fair trial; not a lawyer--hired, prostituted, at a great
price--to try by every technical means to get him off."

"A lawyer must, by the ethics of his profession, take every case brought him, I suppose," some
one enunciated the ancient doctrine.

"Well, if that is the case," rejoined King hotly, "the law warps the thinking and the morals
of any man who professes it. And if I had a son to place in life, I most certainly should not
put him in a calling that deliberately trains his mind to see things that way!"

"I am sorry you have so low an opinion," spoke up Keith from the doorway. "I am afraid I must
hold the contrary as to the nobility of my chosen profession. It can be disgraced, I admit.
That it has been disgraced, I agree. That it can be redeemed, I am going to prove."

He bowed and left the office.

XLIII

Morrell went directly from Keith's office to Keith's house. He was not particularly angry;
for some time he had expected just this result, but since he had threatened, he intended to
accomplish. Finding Nan Keith at home, he plunged directly at the subject in his most direct
and English fashion. She listened to him steadily until he had finished.

"Is that all?" she then asked him quietly,

"That's all," he acknowledged.

She arose.

"Then I will say, Mr. Morrell, that I do not believe you. I know my husband thoroughly, and
I am beginning to know you. I believe that is my only comment. Good afternoon."

He made a half attempt to point to her the way to corroborative evidence, but she swept this
superbly aside, Finally he took his correct leave, half angry, half amused, wholly cynical,
for to his mind the reason for her indifference to the news he brought lay in what he supposed
to be her relations with Ben Sansome.

"Bally ass!" he apostrophized himself. "Might have known how she'd take it."

His reading of Nan's motives was, of course, incorrect. Her first feeling was merely a white
heat of anger against Morrell, whom she had never liked. Perhaps after a little this emotion
might have carried over into, not distrust, but an uneasiness as to the main issue; but before
she had arrived at this point Keith came in to deliver an ill-timed warning. As ill luck would
have it, and as such coincidences often come about in the most perverse fashion, Keith had,
down the street, met some malicious fool who had dropped a laughing remark about Sansome. It
was nothing in itself. Ordinarily, Keith would have paid no attention to it. To-day it clashed
with his mood. Even now his jealousy was not stirred in the least, but his sense of appearances
was irritated. By the time he had reached home he had worked up a proper indignation.

"Look here, Nan," he blurted out as soon as he had closed the door behind him, "you're seeing
too much of Sansome. Everybody's talking."

"Who is everybody?" she asked very quietly.

"Of course I know it's all right," he blundered ahead tactlessly--the gleam in her eye should
have warned him that he might have omitted that reassurance--"but just the looks of the thing.
And he's such a weak and wishy-washy little nonentity!"

Her sense of justice aroused by this, she sprang to the defence of Sansome.

"You are quite mistaken there," she said with dignity. "Men of that type are never understood
by men of yours. He is my friend--and yours. And he has been very kind to both of us."

"Well, just the same, you ought not to get yourself talked about," repeated Keith stubbornly.

"Do you distrust me?" she demanded.

"Heavens, no! But you don't realize how it looks to others. He's coming here morning, noon,
and night."

"It seems to me I may be the best judge of my own conduct."

"Well," said Keith deliberately, "I don't know that you are. You must remember that you are
my wife, and that you bear my name. I have something to say about it. I'm telling you; but
if you cannot manage the matter properly, I'll just have to drop a hint to Sansome."

At that she blazed out.

"Do that and you will regret it to the last day of your life!" she flared. "If you'd be as
careful with the name of Keith as I am, it would not suffer!"

"What do you mean by that?" he asked? after a blank pause.

She had not intended to use that weapon, but now she persisted placidly.

"I mean that if our name has been talked about, it has not been because of any action of mine."

His heart was beating wildly. In the multiplicity of fighting interests he had actually forgotten
(for the moment) all about his office visitor. But he, too, had pluck.

"I see you have had a call from our friend Morrell," he ventured.

"Well!" she challenged.

Her head was back, and her breath was short. This crisis had come upon them swiftly, unexpectedly,
unwanted by either. Now it loomed over them in a terrible, because unknown, portent. Each realized
that a misstep might mean irreparable consequences, but each felt constrained to go on. The
situation must now be developed. Keith, faced with this new problem, lost his heat, and became
cool, careful, wary, as when in court his faculties marshalled themselves. Nan, on the other
hand, while well in control of her mind, poised on a brink.

"I don't know what he told you," said Keith, the blood suffusing his face and spreading over
his ears and neck, "but I'm going to tell you everything he would be justified in telling you.
One evening a number of years ago, in company with a crowd, I went inside the doors of a disreputable
place, and immediately came out again. It was part of a spree, and harmless. That was all there
was to it. You believe me?" In spite of his iron control, a deep note of anxiety vibrated in
his voice as he proffered the question.

Her heart gave a leap for pride as he made this confession, his face very red, but his head
back,  She knew he spoke the truth, the whole truth.

"Of course I believe you," she said, trying to speak naturally, but with a mad impulse to laugh
or cry. She swallowed, gripped her nerves, and went on. "But, naturally," she told him,

"I consider myself as good a custodian of the family reputation as yourself."

There the matter rested. By mutual but tacit consent they withdrew cautiously from the debated
ground, each curiously haunted by a feeling that catastrophe had been fortunately and narrowly
averted.

XLIV

Keith immediately moved for a retrial, and began anew his heartbreaking labours in forcing
a way to definite action through the thorn thicket of technicalities. At the same time, on
his own account, and very secretly, he commenced a search for evidence against the attorneys
for the defence. By now he possessed certain private agents of his own whom he considered trustworthy.

Early in his investigations he abandoned hope of getting direct evidence against McDougall
himself. That astute lawyer had been careful to have nothing whatever to do with actual bribery
or corruption, and he was crafty enough to disassociate himself from direct dealing with agents.
Indeed, Keith himself was in some slight doubt as to whether McDougall had any actual detailed
knowledge of the underground workings at all. But McDougall's. associates were a different
matter. Here, little by little, real evidence began to accumulate, until Keith felt that he
could, with reasonable excuse, move for an official investigation. To his genuine grief Calhoun
Bennett seemed to be heavily involved. He could not forget that the young Southerner had been
one of his earliest friends in the city, nor had he ever tried to forget the real liking he
had felt for him. It was not difficult to recognize that according to his code Cal Bennett
had merely played the game as the game was played, carrying out zealously the intentions of
his superiors, availing himself of time-honoured methods, wholeheartedly fighting for his own
side. Yet there could be no doubt that he had made himself criminally liable. Keith brooded
much over the situation, but got nowhere, and so resolutely pushed it into the back of his
mind in favour of the need of the moment.

But quietly as he conducted his investigations, some rumour of them escaped. One afternoon
he received a call from Bennett. The young man was evidently a little embarrassed, but intent
on getting at the matter.

"Look heah, Keith," he began, dropping into a chair, and leaning both arms on the table opposite
Keith, "I don't want to say anything offensive, or make any disagreeable implications, or insult
you by false suspicions, but there are various persistent rumours about, and I thought I'd
better come to you direct."

"Fire away, Cal," said Keith.

"Well, it's just this: they do say yo're tryin' to fasten a criminal charge of bribery on me.
You and I have been friends--and still are, I hope--but if yo're goin' gunnin' foh me, I want
to know it."

His face was slightly flushed, but his fine dark eyes looked hopefully to his friend for denial.
Keith was genuinely distressed. He moved an inkwell to and fro, and did not look up; but his
voice was steady and determined as he replied:

"I'm not gunning for you, Cal, and I wish to heaven you weren't mixed up in this mess." He
looked up. "But I am gunning for crooked work in this Cora case!"

Bennett took his arms from the table, and sat erect.

"Do you mean to imply, suh, that I am guilty of crooked work?" he inquired, a new edge of formality
in his voice.

"No, no, of course not!" hastened Keith. "I hadn't thought of you in that connection! I am
just looking the whole matter up----"

"Well, suh, I strongly advise you to drop it," interrupted Bennett curtly.

"But why?"

"It isn't ethical. You will find great resentment among yo' colleagues of the bar at the implication
conveyed by yo' so-called investigation, suh."

Calhoun Bennett had become stiff and formal. Keith still tried desperately to be reasonable
and conciliatory.

"But if there proves to be nothing out of the way," he urged, "surely no one could have anything
to fear or object to."

"Nobody has anything to fear in any case," said Bennett, "but any gentleman--and I, most decidedly--would
object to the implication."

At this Keith, stiffened a little in his turn.

"I am sorry we differ on that point, I have good reason to believe there has been crooked work
somewhere in this Cora trial. I do not know who has done it; I accuse nobody; but in the public
office I hold it seems my plain duty to investigate."

"Yo' public duty is to prosecute, that is all," argued Bennett. "It is the duty of the grand
jury to investigate or to order investigations."

Here spoke the spirit of the law, for technically Bennett was correct.

"Whatever the rigid interpretation"--Keith found himself uttering heresy-- "I still feel it
my duty to deal personally with whatever seems to me unjustly to interfere with, proper convictions."
Then he stopped, aghast at the tremendous step he had taken. For to a man trained as was Keith,
in a time when all men were created for the law, and not the law for men, in a society where
the lawyer was considered the greatest citizen, and subtle technicality paramount to justice
or commonsense, this was a tremendous step. At that moment, and by that spontaneous and unconsidered
statement, Keith, unknown to himself, passed from one side to the other in the great social
struggle that was impending.

"I wa'n you, suh," Bennett was repeating, "yo' course will not meet with the approval of the
members of the bar."

"I am sorry, Cal," said Keith sadly.

Bennett rose, bowed stiffly, and turned to the door. But suddenly he whirled back, his face
alight with feeling,

"Oh, see heah, Milt, be sensible!" he cried. "I know just how yo're feelin' now. Yo're sore,
and I don't blame you. You put ap a hard fight, and though you got licked, I don't mind tellin'
you that the whole bar appreciates yo're brilliant work. You must remember you had to play
a lone hand against pretty big men--the biggest we've got! We all appreciate the odds. Cora
has lots of friends. You'll never convict him, Milt; but go in again for another trial, if
it will do yo're feelin's any good, with our best wishes. Only don't let gettin' licked make
you so sore! Don't go buttin' yo're haid at yo're friends! Be a spo't!"

A half hour ago this appeal might have gained a response if not a practical effect, but the
spiritual transformation in Keith was complete.

"I'm sorry," he replied simply, "but I must go ahead in my own way."

Calhoun Bennett's face lost its glow, and his tall figure stiffened.

"I must wa'n you not to bring my name into this," said he. "I do not intend to have my reputation
sacrificed to yo' strait-laced Yankee conscience. If my name is ever mentioned, I shall hold
you responsible, personally responsible. You understand, suh?"

He stood stiff and straight, staring at Keith. Keith did not stir. After a moment Calhoun Bennett
went out.

XLV

After this interview Keith experienced a marked and formal coldness from nearly all of his
old associates, Those with whom he came into direct personal contact showed him scrupulous
politeness, but confined their conversation to the briefest necessary words, and quit him as
soon as possible. He found himself very much alone, for at this period he had lost the confidence
of one faction and had not yet gained that of the other.

His investigations encountered always increasing difficulties. In his own department he could
obtain little assistance. A dead inertia opposed all his efforts. Nevertheless, he went ahead
doggedly, using Krafft and some of Krafft's proteges to considerable effect.

But soon pressure was brought on him from a new direction: his opponents struck at him through
his home.

For some days Nan had been aware of a changed atmosphere in the society she frequented and
had heretofore led. The change was subtle, defied analysis, but was to the woman's sensitive
instincts indubitable. At first she had been inclined to consider it subjective, to imagine
that something wrong with herself must be projecting itself through her imagination; but finally
she realized that the impression was well based. In people's attitude there was nothing overt;
it was rather a withdrawl of intimacy, a puzzling touch of formality. She seemed overnight
to have lost in popularity.

Truth to tell, she paid little attention to this. By now she was experienced enough in human
nature to understand and to be able to gauge the slight fluctuations, the ebbs and flows of
esteem, the kaleidoscopic shiftings and realignments of the elements of frivolous and formal
society. Mrs. Brown had hired away Mrs. Smith's best servant; for an hour they looked askance
on Mrs. Brown; then, the episode forgotten, Mrs. Brown's cork bobbed to the surface company
of all the other corks. It was very trivial. Besides, just at this moment, Nan was wholly occupied
with preparations for her first "afternoon" of the year. She intended as usual to give three
of these formal affairs, and from them the season took its tone. The list was necessarily far
from exclusive, but Nan made up for that by the care she gave her most original arrangements.
She prided herself on doing things simply, but with a difference, calling heavily on her resources
of correspondence, her memory, and her very good imagination for some novelty of food or entertainment.
At the first of these receptions, too, she wore always for the first time some new and marvellous
toilet straight from Paris, the style of which had not been shown to even her most intimate
friends. This year, for example, she had done the most obvious and, therefore, the most unlikely
thing: she had turned to the contemporaneous Spanish for her theme. Nobody had thought of that.
The Colonial, the Moorish, the German, the Russian, the Hungarian--all the rest of the individual
or "picturesque"--but nobody had thought to look next door. Nan had decorated the rooms with
yellow and red, hung the walls with riatas, strings of red peppers and the like, obtained Spanish
guitar players, and added enough fiery Mexican dishes to the more digestible refreshments to
emphasize the Spanish flavour. She wore a dress of golden satin, a wreath of coral flowers
about her hair, and morocco slippers matched in hue.

The afternoon was fine. People were slow in coming. A few of the nondescripts that must be
invited on such occasions put in an appearance, responded hastily to their hostess's greeting,
and wandered about furtively but interminably. Patricia Sherwood, who had come early, circulated
nobly, trying to break up the frozen little groups, but in vain. The time passed. More non-descripts--and
not a soul else! As five o'clock neared, a cold fear clutched at Nan's heart. No one was coming!

She worked hard to cover with light graciousness the cold-hearted dismay that filled her breast
as the party dragged its weary length away. All her elaborate preparations and decorations
seemed to mock her. The Spanish orchestra tinkled away gayly until she felt she could throw
something at them; the caterer's servants served solemnly the awed nondescripts. Nan's cheeks
burned and her throat choked with unshed tears. She could not bear to look at Patsy Sherwood,
who remained tactfully distant.

About five-thirty the door opened to admit a little group, at the sight of whom Nan uttered
a short, hysterical chuckle. Then she glided to meet them, both hands outstretched in welcome,
Mrs. Sherwood watched her with admiration. Nan was game.

There were three in the party: Mrs. Morrell, Sally Warner, and Mrs. Scattergood. Sally Warner
was of the gushing type of tall, rather desiccated femininity who always knows you so much
better than you know her, who cultivates you every moment for a week and forgets you for months
on end, who is hard up and worldly and therefore calculating, whose job is to amuse people
and who will therefore sacrifice her best, perhaps not most useful, friend to an epigram, whose
wit is barbed, who has a fine nose for trouble, and who is always in at the death. Mrs. Scattergood
was a small blond woman, high voiced, precise in manner, very positive in her statements which
she delivered in a drawling tone, humourless, inquisitive about petty affairs, the sort of
"good woman" with whom no fault can be found, but who drives men to crime. Mrs. Morrell we know.

These three, after greeting their hostess gushingly, circulated compactly, talking to each
other in low voices. Nan knew they were watching her, and that they had come for the sole purpose
of getting first-hand details of her fiasco for later recounting in drawing-rooms where, undoubtedly,
even now awaited eager auditors. She came to a decision. The matter could not be worse. When,
the three came to make their farewells, she detained them.

"No, I'm not going to let you go yet," she told them, perhaps a little imperiously. "I haven't
had half a visit with you. Wait until this rabble clears out."

She hesitated a moment over Mrs. Sherwood, but finally let her go without protest. When the
last guest had departed she sank into a chair. As she was already on the verge of hysterics,
she easily kept up an air of gayety.

"Girls, what an awful party!" she cried. "I could tear my hair! It was a perfect nightmare."
Struggling to control her voice and keep back her tears, she added abruptly: "Now tell me what
it is all about."

Mrs. Morrell and Sally Warner were plainly uneasy and at a loss how to meet this situation,
but Mrs. Scattergood remained quite composed in her small, compact way.

"What's what all about, Nan, dear?" asked Sally Warner in her most vivacious manner. She keenly
felt the dramatic situation and was already visualizing herself in the role of raconteuse.

"You know perfectly well. Why this funeral? Where are they all? Why did they stay away? I have
a right to know."

"I'm sure there's nothing I can think of!" replied Sally artificially. "The idea!"

But Mrs. Scattergood, with all the relish of performing a noble and disagreeable duty, broke in:

"You know, dear," she said in her didactic, slow voice, "as well as we do, what the world is.
Of course we understand, but people will talk!"

"In heaven's name what are you driving at? What are they talking about?" demanded Nan, as Mrs.
Scattergood apparently came to a full stop.

A pause ensued while Sally and Mrs, Scattergood exchanged glances with Mrs. Morrell.

"Well," at last said Sally, judicially, buttoning her glove, her head on one side, "if I had
a nice husband like yours, I wouldn't let him run around getting himself disliked for nothing."

"You ought to use your influence with him before it is too late," added Mrs. Morrell.

Nan looked helplessly from one to the other, too uncertain of her ground now to risk another step,

"So that's it," she ventured at last. "Some one has been telling lies about us!"

"Oh, dear no!" disclaimed Mrs. Scattergood, "It is only that your friends cannot understand
your taking sides against them. Naturally they feel hurt. Forgive me, dear--you know I say
it with all affection--but don't you think it a mistake?"

Nan was thoroughly dazed and mystified, but afraid to press the matter further. She had a suspicion
Mrs. Morrell was again responsible for her difficulties, but was too uncertain to urge them
to stay for further elucidation. They arose. These were the days of hoop skirts, and the set
of the outer skirt had to be carefully adjusted before going out. As they posed in turn before
the hall pier glass they chattered. "How lovely the house looks." "You certainly have worked
hard, and must be tired, poor dear!" "Well, we'll see you to-morrow at Mrs. Terry's. You're
not asked? Surely there is some mistake! Well, those things always happen in a big affair,
don't they?" "See you soon." "Good-bye." "Good-bye."

Outside the house they paused at the head of the steps.

"Well, what do you think of that?" said Sally. "I really believe the poor thing doesn't know,
I believe I'll just drop in for a minute at Mrs. Caldwell's. Sorry you're not going my way."

After a fashion Nan felt relieved by this interview, for she thought she discerned only Mrs.
Morrell's influence, and this, she knew, she could easily overcome. While she waited for Keith's
return from whatever inaccessible fastnesses he always occupied during these big afternoon
receptions, she reviewed the situation, her indignation mounting. Downstairs, Wing Sam and
his temporary assistants were clearing things away. Usually Nan superintended this, but to-day
she did not care. When Keith finally entered the room, she burst out on him with a rapid and
angry account of the whole situation as she saw it; but to her surprise he did not rise to
it. His weary, spiritless, uninterested: acceptance of it astonished her to the last degree.
To him her entanglement with the Cora affair--for at once he saw the trend of it all--seemed
the last straw. Not even his own home was sacred. His spirit was so bruised and wearied that
he actually could not rise to an explanation. He seemed to realize an utter hopelessness of
making her see his point of view. This was not so strange when it is considered that this point
of view, however firmly settled, was still a new and unexplained fact with himself. He contented
himself with saying: "The Morrells had nothing whatever to do with it." It was the only thing
that occurred to him as worth saying; but it was unfortunate, for it left Nan's irritation
without logical support. Naturally that irritation was promptly transferred to him.

"Then what, in heaven's name, is it?" she demanded. "My friends are all treating me as if I
had the smallpox."

"Cheerful lot of friends we've made in this town!" he said bitterly.

"What is the matter with them?" she persisted.

"The matter is they've taken me for a fool they could order around to suit themselves. They
found they couldn't. Now they're through with me, even Cal Bennett," he added in a lower tone
that revealed his hurt.

She paused, biting her underlip.

"Is the trouble anything to do with this Cora case?" she asked, suddenly enlightened by some
vague, stray recollection.

"Of course!" he replied crossly, exasperated at the nagging necessity of arousing himself to
explanations. "There's no use arguing about it. I'm going to see it through in spite of that
hound McDougall and his whole pack of curs!"

"But why have you turned so against your friends?" she asked more gently, struck by his careworn
look as he sprawled in the easy chair under the lamp. "I don't see! You'll get yourself disliked!"

She did not press the matter further for the moment, but three days later she brought up the
topic again. In the interim she had heard considerable direct and indirect opinion. She selected
after dinner as the most propitious time for discussion. As a matter of fact, earlier in the
day would have been better, before Keith's soul had been rubbed raw by downtown attrition.

"I don't believe you quite realize how strongly people feel about the Cora case," she began.
"Isn't it possible to drop it or compromise it or something, Milton?"

In the reaction from argument and--coldness downtown he felt he could stand no more of it at home.

"I wish you'd let that matter drop!" he said decidedly. "You couldn't understand it."

She hesitated. A red spot appeared in either cheek.

"I must say I don't understand!" she countered. "It is inconceivable to me that a man like
you should turn so easily against his class!"

"My class?" he echoed wearily.

"What do such creatures as Cora and Yankee Sullivan amount to?" she cried hotly, "I suppose
you'll say they are in your class next! How you can consider them of sufficient importance
to go dead against your best friends on their account!"

"It is because I am right and they are wrong."

She was a little carried beyond herself.

"Well, they all think the same way," she pointed out. "Aren't you a little --a little--"

"Pig-headed," supplied Keith bitterly.

"--to put your opinion against theirs?" she finished.

Keith did not reply.

This was Nan's last attempt. She did not bring up the subject again. But she withdrew proudly
and completely from all participation in society. She refused herself to callers. Once the
situation was thoroughly defined, she accepted it. If her husband decided to play the game
in this way, she, too, would follow, whether she approved or not. Nan was loyal and a thoroughbred.
And she was either too proud or too indifferent to fight it out with the other women, in the
rough and tumble of social ambition.

XLVI

In this voluntary seclusion Nan saw laterally only two persons. One of these was Mrs. Sherwood.
The ex-gambler's wife called frequently; and, for some reason, Nan never refused to see her,
although she did not make her visitor particularly welcome. Often an almost overmastering impulse
seized her to open her soul to this charming, sympathetic, tactful woman, but something always
restrained her. Her heart was too sore. And since an inhibited impulse usually expresses itself
by contraries, her attitude was of studied and aloof politeness. Mrs. Sherwood never seemed
to notice this. She sat in the high-ceilinged "parlour," with its strange fresco of painted
fish-nets, and chatted on in a cheerful monologue, detailing small gossipy items of news. She
always said goodbye cordially, and went out with a wonderful assumption of ignorance that anything
was wrong. Her visits did Nan good, although never could the latter break through the ice wall
of reserve. Nan's conscience often hurt her that she could answer this genuine friendship with
so little cordiality. She wondered dully how Mrs. Sherwood could bring herself to be so good
to so cross-grained a creature as herself. As a matter of fact, the women were marking time
in their relations--Mrs. Sherwood consciously, Nan unconsciously--until better days.

The other regular caller was Ben Sansome. His attitude was in some sense detached. He was quietly,
deeply sympathetic in his manner, never obtrusive, never even hinting in words at his knowledge
of the state of affairs, but managing in some subtle manner to convey the impression that he
alone fully understood. Nan found that, without her realization, almost in spite of herself,
Sansome had managed to isolate her with himself on a little island of mutual understanding,
apart from all the rest of the world.

Her life was now becoming circumscribed. Household, books, some small individual charities,
and long afternoon walks filled her days. At first Sansome had accompanied her on these tramps,
but the unfailing, almost uncanny insight of the man told him that at such times her spirit
really craved solitude, so he soon tactfully ceased all attempts to join her. Her usual walk
was over the cliffs toward the bay, where, from some of the elevations near Russian Hill, she
could look out to the Golden Gate, or across to Tamalpais or the Contra Costa shores. The crawl
of the distant blue water, the flash of wing or sail, the taste of salt rime, the canon shadows
of the hills, the flying murk, or the last majestic and magnificent blotting out of the world
as the legions of sea fog overtoiled it, all answered or soothed moods in her spirit. Sometimes
she forgot herself and overstayed the daylight. At such times she scuttled home half fearfully
for the great city, like a jungle beast, was most dangerous at night.

One evening, returning thus in haste, she was lured aside by the clang of bells and the glare
of a fire. No child ever resisted that combination, and Nan was still a good deal of a child.
Almost before she knew, it she was wedged fast in a crowd. The pressure was suffocating; and,
to her alarm, she found herself surrounded by a rough-looking set of men. They were probably
harmless workingmen, but Nan did not know that. She became frightened, and tried to escape,
but her strength was not equal to it. Near the verge of panic, she was fairly on the point
of struggling, when she felt an arm thrown around her shoulder. She looked up with a cry, to
meet Ben Sansome's brown eyes.

"Don't be afraid; I'm here," he said soothingly.

In the revulsion Nan fairly thrilled under the touch of his manly, protection. This impulse
was followed instantly, by an instinct of withdrawal from the embrace about her shoulder, which
was in turn succeeded by a fierce scorn of being prudish in such circumstances. Sansome masterfully
worked her out through the press. At the last tactful moment he withdrew his arm. She thanked
him, still a little frightened.

"It was certainly lucky you happened to be here!" she ended.

"Lucky!" he laughed briefly. "I knew that sooner or later you'd need me."

He stopped at that, but allowed her questions to elicit the fact that every afternoon he had
followed her at a discreet distance, scrupulously respecting her privacy, but ready for the
need that sooner or later must surely arrive. Nan was touched.

"You have no right to endanger yourself this way!" he cried, as though carried away. "It is
not just to those who care for you!" and by the tone of his voice, the look of his eye, the
slight emphasizing pressure of his hand he managed to convey to her, but in a manner to which
she could not possibly object, his belief that his last phrase referred more to himself than
to any one else in the world.

It was about this period that John Sherwood, dressing for dinner, remarked to his wife:

"Patsy, the more I see of you the more I admire you. Do you remember that Firemen's Ball when
you started in to break up that Keith-Morrell affair? He dropped her so far that I haven't
heard her plunk yet! I don't know what made me think of it--it was a long time ago."

"Yes, that was all right," she replied thoughtfully, "but I'm not as pleased as I might be
with the Keith situation."

Sherwood stopped tying his cravat and turned to face her.

"He's perfectly straight, I assure you," he said earnestly. "I don't believe he knows that
any other woman but his wife exists. I know that. But I wish he'd go a little easier with the men."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking of him. She's the culprit now."

"What!" cried Sherwood, astonished, "that little innocent baby!"

"That 'little innocent baby' is seeing altogether too much of Ben Sansome."

Sherwood uttered a snort of masculine scorn.

"Ho! Ben Sansome?"

"Yes, Ben Sansome."

"Why, he's a notorious butterfly."

"Well, it looks now as though he intended to alight."

"Seriously?"

She nodded. Sherwood slowly went on with his dressing.

"I like that little creature," he said at last. "She's the sort that strikes me as born to
be treated well and to be happy. Some people are that way, you know; just as others are born
painters or plumbers." She nodded in appreciation. "And if you give the word, Patsy, I'll go
around and have a word with Keith--or spoil Sansome--whichever you say----"

She laughed.

"You're a dear, Jack, but if you love me, keep your hands off here."

"Are you bossing this job?" he asked gravely.

"I'm bossing this job," she repeated, with equal gravity.

He said nothing more for a time, but his eyes twinkled.

XLVII

Keith's investigations proceeded until at last he felt justified in preferring before the Bar
Association charges of irregular practice against James Ware, Bernard Black, and--to his great
regret--Calhoun Bennett. He conceived he had enough evidence to convict these men legally,
but he as yet shrank from asking for an indictment against them, preferring at first to try
for their discipline before their fellow lawyers. If the Bar Association failed, however, he
had every intention of pressing the matter in the courts.

Almost immediately after the filing of the complaint he was waited on in his office by a man
only slightly known to him, Major Marmaduke Miles. The major's occupation in life was obscure.
He was a red-faced, tightly buttoned, full-jowled, choleric Southerner of the ultra-punctilious
brand, always well dressed in quaint and rather old-fashioned garments, with charming manners,
and the reminiscence of good looks lost in a florid and apoplectic habit. This person entered
Keith's office, greeted him formally, declined a chair. Standing very erect before Keith's
desk, his beaver hat poised on his left forearm, he said:

"I am requested, suh, to enquiah of yo' the name of a friend with whom I can confer."

"If that means a challenge, Major, I must first ask the name of your principal," returned Keith.

"I am actin' fo' Mr. Calhoun Bennett, suh," stated the major.

"Tell Cal Bennett I will not fight him," said Keith quietly.

The major was plainly flabbergasted, and for a moment puffed his red cheeks in and out rapidly.

"You mean to tell me, suh, that yo' refuse the satisfaction due a gentleman after affrontin' him?"

"I won't fight Cal Bennett," repeated Keith patiently.

The major turned even redder, and swelled so visibly that Keith, in spite of his sad realization
of the gravity of the affair, caught himself guiltily in a boyish anticipation that some of
the major's strained buttons would pop.

"I shall so repo't to my principal, suh. But I may add, suh, that in my opinion, suh, yo' are
conductin' yo'self in a manner unbecomin' to a gentleman; and othuh gentlemen will say so,
suh! They may go even farthah and stigmatize yo' conduct as cowardly, suh! And it might even
be that I, suh, would agree with that expression, suh!"

The major glowered. Keith smiled wearily. It did not to him at the moment that this would be
so great a calamity.

"I am sorry to have forfeited your good opinion, Major," he contented himself with saying.

The major marched straight back to the Monumental, where Bennett and a number of friends were
awaiting the result of his mission. The major's angry passions had been rising, every foot
of the way.

"He won't fight, suh!" he bellowed, slamming his cane across the table. "He won't fight! And
I stigmatized him to his face as a white-livered hound!"

Calhoun Bennett sank back pale, and speechless. His companions deluged him with advice.

"Horsewhip the craven publicly." "Warn him to go heeled, and then force the issue!" "Shoot
him down like the dog he is!"

But the major's mighty bellow dominated everything.

"I claim the privilege!" he roared. "Egad, I demand the privilege! It is my right! I am insulted
by such a rebuff! Now that I have acquitted myself of Cal's errand, I will call him out myself.
Ain't that right, Cal? I'll make the hound fight!"

The old major looked redder and fiercer than ever. There could be no doubt that he would make
any one fight, once he started out to do so, and that he would carry the matter through. He
was brave enough.

But little Jimmy Ware, who had been doing some thinking, here spoke up. It seemed to him a
good chance to get a reputation without any risk. Since James King of William had uncompromisingly
refused to fight duels, his example had been followed. A strong party of those having conscientious
scruples against the practice had come into being. Keith's refusal to fight Bennett, to Ware's
mind, indicated that he belonged to this class. It looked safe.

"Pardon me, Major," he broke in suavely; "but each in turn. I claim the right. Cal had first
chance because he had personally warned the man of the consequences. But I am equally accused.
You must admit my prior claim."

The major came off the boil. Puffing his red cheeks in and out he considered.

"Yo're right, suh," he conceded reluctantly.

After considerable persuasion, and some flattery as to his familiarity with the niceties of
the Code, the major consented to bear Jimmy's defiance. He entered Keith's office again, stiffer
than a ramrod. Keith smiled at him.

"There's no use, Major, I won't fight Cal Bennett," he greeted his visitor.

"I am the bearer of a challenge from Mistah James Ware," he announced.

"What!" yelled Keith, so suddenly and violently that Major Miles recoiled a step.

"From Mistah James Ware," he repeated.

Keith laughed savagely.

"Oh, I'll fight him," he growled; "gladly; any time he wants it."

The major's face lit up.

"If you'll name yo' friend, suh," he suggested.

"Friend? Friend? What for? I'm capable of arranging this. I haven't time to hunt up a friend."

"It's customary," objected the major.

"Look here," Keith swept on, "I'm the challenged party and I have the say- so, haven't I?"

"Yo' can name the weapons," conceded Major Marmaduke Miles.

"All right, we'll call this revolvers, navy revolvers--biggest there are, whatever that is.
And close up. None of your half-mile shooting."

"Ten yards," suggested Major Miles with unholy joy.

"And right away--this afternoon," went on Keith. "If that little runt wants trouble, egad he's
going to have all his little skin will hold."

But the major would not have this. It was not done. He waived conducting his negotiations through
a second, but that was as far as his conventional soul would go. He held out for three o'clock
the following afternoon.

"And I wish to apologize, Mistah Keith," he said, on parting, "fo' my ill- considered words
of a short time ago. I misunderstood yo' reasons fo' refusin' to fight Mistah Bennett."

He bowed his rotund, tightly buttoned little figure and departed, to strike Jimmy Ware with
complete consternation.

Duels in the fifties were almost an acknowledged public institution. Although technically illegal,
no one was ever convicted of any of the consequences of such encounters. They were conducted
quite openly. Indeed, some of the more famous were actively advertised by steamboat men, who
carried excursions to the field. Keith's acceptance of Ware's challenge aroused the keenest
interest. Outside the prominence of the men involved, a vague feeling was current that in their
persons were symbolized opposing forces in the city's growth. As yet these forces had not segregated
to that point where champions were demanded, or indeed would be recognized as such, but vague
feelings of antagonism, of alignments, were abroad. Those who later would constitute the Law
and Order class generally sympathized with Ware; those whom history was to know as the Vigilantes
felt stirrings of partisanship for Keith. Therefore, the following afternoon a small flotilla
set sail for the Contra Costa shore, and a crowd of several hundred spectators disembarked
at the chosen duelling ground.

Nan knew nothing of all this. Keith was now in such depths of low spirits that his wearied
soul did not much care what became of him. He put his affairs in shape, shrugged his shoulders,
and went to the encounter with absolute indifference.

The preliminaries were soon over. Keith found himself facing Jimmy Ware at the distance he
had himself chosen. A double line of spectators stood at a respectful space on either side.
Major Miles and an acquaintance of Keith's who had volunteered to act for him were posted nearer
at hand. Keith had listened attentively to the instructions. The word was to be given--one,
two, three. Fire! Between the first and last words the duellists were to discharge the first
shot from their weapons. After that they were to fire at will. One shot would have sufficed
Jimmy Ware; but Keith, without emotion, filed with a dead indifference to any possible danger
and a savage contempt for the whole proceedings, had insisted on the full measure. He was totally
unaccustomed to weapons. At the word of command he raised the revolver and fired, carelessly
but coolly, and without result. One after the other he discharged the six chambers of his weapon,
aiming as well as he knew how. It did not occur to him that Ware was firing at him. After the
sixth miss he threw the revolver away in cold disgust.

"This is a farce," said he, "and I'm not going to be fool enough to take part in it any longer."

Jimmy Ware, delighted at finding himself unharmed, and confident now that bluff would go, started
to say something lofty and disdainful. Keith whirled back on him.

"If you want 'satisfaction,' as you call it, you'll get it, and you'll get it plenty! I'm sick
of being made a fool of. Just open your ugly head to me again, and I'll knock it off your shoulders!"
His eye smouldered dangerously, and Jimmy Ware, very uncertain in his mind, took refuge in
a haughty look. Keith glared at him moment, then turned to the crowd: "I'll give all of you
fair warning," said he. "I'm going to do my legal duty in all things; and I'm not going to
fight duels. Anybody who interferes with me is going to get into trouble!"

An uproar ensued. All this was most irregular, unprecedented, a disgrace to a gentlemen's meeting.
The major roared like a bull. If a man would not fight, would not defend his actions, how could
a gentleman get at him except by street brawling or assassination, and both of these were repugnant
to finer feelings. A dozen fire-eaters felt themselves personally insulted. The crowd surrounded
Keith, shouting at him, jostling him, threatening. A cool, somewhat amused voice broke in.

"Gentlemen," said Talbot Ward, in so decided a tone that they turned to hear. "I am a neutral
non-partisan in this little war, I am for neither party, for neither opinion, in the matter.
I, like Mr, Keith, never fight duels. But may I suggest--merely in the interest of fair play--that
for the moment you are forgetting yourselves? My opinion coincides with Mr. Keith's that duelling
is a foolish sort of game, but it is a game, and recognized; and if you are going to play it,
why not stick to its rules? Mr. Keith, and Mr. Ware have exchanged shots. Mr. Ware has therefore
had 'satisfaction.' Now Mr. Keith and I going to walk--quietly--to the boat. We do not expect
to be molested."

"By God, Tal!" cried Major Miles in astonishment, "ye' don't mean to tell me yo're linin' yourself
up on the side of that blackleg!"

"Well," put in a new voice, a very cheerful voice, "I don't pretend to be neutral, and I'd
just as lief fight duels as not, and I'm willing to state to you all that though I don't know
a damn thing about this case nor its merits, I like this man's style. And I'm ready to state
that I'll take his place and fight any--or all of you--right here and now. You, Major?"

All eyes turned to him. He was a dark, eager youth, standing with his slouch hat in his hand,
his head thrown back, his mop of shiny black hair tossed from his forehead, his eyes glowing.
The major hummed and fussed.

"I have absolutely no quarrel with you, suh!" he said.

"Nor with my friend yonder?" insisted the newcomer.

"I should esteem it beneath my dignity to fight with a craven and a coward, suh!" the major
saved his face.

The stranger glanced at Keith, an amused light in his eyes.

"We'll let it go at that," he conceded. "Anybody else?" he challenged, eying them.

Every one seemed busy getting ready to go home, and appeared not to hear him. After a moment
he put on his felt hat and joined Keith and Ward, who were walking slowly toward the landing.

"Well," remarked a rough-looking Yankee--our old friend Graves of the Eurekas to his friend
Carter--"I didn't know anything would cool off the major like that!"

"I reckon the major knew who he was talking to," replied Carter.

"Who is the cuss? I never saw him before."

"Don't you know him? I reckon you must have heard of him, anyway. He's just down from the Sierra.
That's the express rider, Johnny Fairfax--Diamond Jack, they call him."

Graves whistled an enlightened whistle.

XLVIII

Johnny Fairfax accompanied Keith all the way back to his office, although Talbot Ward said
good-bye at the wharves. He bubbled over with conversation and enthusiasm, and seemed to have
taken a great fancy to the lawyer. The theme of his glancing talk was the duel, over which
he was immensely amused; but from it he diverged on the slightest occasion to comment on whatever
for the moment struck his notice.

"That was certainly the rottenest shooting I ever saw!" he exclaimed over and over, and then
would go off into peals of laughter. "I don't see how twelve shots at that distance could miss!
After the second exchange I concluded even the side line wasn't safe, and I got behind a tree.
Pays to be prompt In your decision; there were a hundred applicants for that tree a moment
later, The bloodless duel as a parlour amusement! You ought to have charged that large and
respectable audience an admission fee! That's a good idea; I'll present it to you! If you ever
have another due, you must have a good manager! There's money in it!"

Keith laughed a trifle ruefully,

"I suppose it was funny," he acknowledged.

"Now don't get huffy," begged Johnny Fairfax. "What you ought to do is to learn to shoot. You'll
probably need to know how if you keep on living around here," His eye fell on a shooting gallery.
"Come in here," he urged impulsively.

The proprietor was instructed to load his pistols and for a dozen shots Keith was coached vehemently
in the elementals of shooting--taught at least the theory of pulling steadily, of coordinating
various muscles and psychological processes that were not at all used to cooerdination. He
learned that mere steady aiming was a small part of it.

"Anybody can do wonderful shooting with an empty pistol," said Johnny contemptuously. "And
anybody can hold as steady as a rock--until he pulls the trigger."

"It's interesting," conceded Keith; "mighty interesting. I didn't know there was so much to it."

"Of course it's interesting," said Johnny. "And you're only at the rudiments. Look here!"

And, to the astonishment of Keith, the worshipful adoration of the shooting-gallery proprietor,
and the awe of the usual audience that gathered at the sound of the reports, he proceeded to
give an exhibition of the skill that had made him famous. The shooting galleries of those days
used no puny twenty-twos. Derringers, pocket revolvers, and the huge "navies" were at hand--with
reduced loads, naturally--for those who in habitual life affected these weapons. Johnny shot
with all of them, displaying the tricks of the gunman with all the naive enthusiasm of youth.
His manner throughout was that engaging mixture of modesty afraid of being thought conceited
and eager pride in showing his skill so attractive to everybody. At first he shot deliberately,
splitting cards, hitting marbles, and devastating whole rows of clay pipes. Then he took to
secreting the weapons in various pockets from which he produced and discharged them in lightning
time. His hand darted with the speed and precision of a snake's head.

"I've just been fooling with shooting things tossed in the air," he said, exuberant with enthusiasm.
"But I'm afraid we can't try that here."

"I'm afraid not," agreed the proprietor regretfully.

"It really isn't very hard, once you get the knack."

"Oh, no," said the proprietor with elaborate sarcasm. "Say," he went on earnestly, "I suppose
it ain't no use trying to hire you--"

Johnny shook his head, smiling.

"I was afraid not," observed the proprietor disappointedly. "You'd be the making of this place.
Drop in any time you want practice. Won't cost you a cent. Would you mind telling me your name?"

"Fairfax," replied Johnny, gruffly embarrassed.

"Not Diamond Jack?" hesitated the proprietor.

"I'm sometimes called that," conceded Johnny, still more gruffly. "How much is it?"

"Not one gosh-danged continental red cent," cried the man, "and I'm pleased to meet you."

Johnny shook his extended hand, mumbled something, and bolted for the street. Keith followed,
laughing.

"It seems you're quite a celebrity," he observed.

But Johnny refused to pursue that subject.

"You come with me and buy you a pistol," he growled. "You ought not to be allowed loose. You're
as helpless as a baby."

Johnny picked out a small .31 calibre revolver and a supply of ammunition.

"Now you practise!" was his final warning and advice.

Keith went home with a new glow at his heart. He was ripe for a friend.

Johnny seemed to have little to do for the moment. He never volunteered information as to his
business or his plans, and Keith never inquired. But the young express rider fell into the
habit of dropping in at Keith's office. He was always very apologetic and solicitous as to
whether or no he was interrupting, saying that he had stopped for only ten seconds; but he
invariably ended in the swivel chair with a good cigar. Keith was at this time busy; but he
was never too busy for Johnny Fairfax. The latter was a luxury to which he treated himself.
Johnny was not only welcome because he was practically Keith's only friend, but also his frank
and engaging comments on men and things were gradually giving the harassed lawyer a new point
of view on the society in which he found himself. Keith, as a newcomer in a community already
established, had naturally accepted the prominent figures in that community as he would have
accepted prominent figures anywhere: that is, as respectable, formidable, admirable, solid,
unquestioned pillars of society. He was of a modest disposition and disinclined to question.
He respected them as any modest young man respects those older and more successful than himself.
For the same reason he accepted their views and their authority; or, if he questioned them,
he did so sadly, almost guiltily, with many heart-searchings.

But Johnny Fairfax held no such attitude. Not he! The city's great names had scant respect
from him! Not for an instant did he hesitate to criticise or analyze the most renowned. It
was not long before he learned all about the Cora trial and Keith's subsequent efforts to discipline
McDougall and his associates.

"I hope you get 'em!" said he; "the whole lot! I don't know much about this McDougall; but
I do know his friends, and most of 'em aren't worth thinkin' about. They're big people here,
but back where I came from, in old Virginia, the best of 'em wouldn't be overseers on a plantation.
That's why they like it so much out here. Look at that gang! Casey has been in the penitentiary,
Rowlee ran some little blackleg sheet down South until they run him out---I tell you, sir,
as a Southerner I'm not proud of the Southerners out here. They're a cheap lot, most of 'em.
They were a cheap lot home. The only difference is that back there everybody knew it, and out
here everybody thinks they're great people because they get up on their hind legs and say so
out loud. That old bluff, Major Miles, he was put out of a Richmond club, sir, for cheatin'
at cards--I know that for a fact!"

Somehow, this frank criticism was like a breeze of fresh air to Keith: it put new courage into
him. Johnny Fairfax had no interests in the city; he had no fear; his viewpoint was free from
all sham; he was newly in from the outside. Through his eyes things fell into perspective.
Suddenly San Francisco upper society became to Keith what it really was: a welter of cheap,
bragging, venal, self-seeking men, with here and there an honest fine character standing high
above. And he began, but dimly, to see that the real men of the place were not--as yet--well
known. Probably one of the most impressive and typical figures of the time was Justice of the
Supreme Court Terry. In the eyes of those too close to events to have a clear sense of proportion,
he was one of the great men of his period. Courtly, handsome, with haughty manners, of aristocratic
bearing, fiercely proud, touchily quarrelsome on "points of honour," generous but a bitter
hater, he and his equally handsome, proud, and fiery wife were considered by many people of
the time as embodying the ideal of Southern chivalry. But Johnny Fairfax would have none of it.

"He a typical Southern gentleman!" he laughed, "As being born in the South myself, I repudiate
that! I know too much about Terry. Why, look here: he's a good sport, and he's got ability,
and he makes friends, and he isn't afraid of anything, But then you stop. He's not a gentleman!
It shows most particularly when he gets mad. Then he'll throw over anything--anything--to have
his own way. He's a big man now, but he won't be knee-high to a June bug before he gets done."

Johnny's prediction was long in fulfilment, but a score of years later it came to pass, and
Judge Terry's reputation has sunk almost to the level of that of his brother on the bench--Judge
"Ned" McGowan.

"They're all a bad lot," Johnny finished, "and I hope you lick them! You don't know all the
good folks in this town yet!"

XLIX

Calhoun Bennett dropped the matter, and contented himself with cutting Keith dead whenever
they happened to meet. Jimmy Ware and Black were men of a different sort; indeed McDougall
had made them his associates mainly because of their knowledge of the city's darker phases
and their unscrupulousness. In the admirable organization thus sketched Calhoun Bennett had
acted as a sort of go-between.

After the duel these two precious citizens held many anxious consultations. They could not
tell just how much evidence Keith had succeeded in gathering, but they knew that plenty of
it existed. If the matter came to an issue, they suspected the consequences might be serious.
Either Keith or his evidence must in some way be got rid of. Black, who was inclined by instinct
and training to be direct, was in favour of the simple expedient of hiring assassins.

"Won't do," negatived the more astute Ware. "The thing will be traced back to us--not legally,
of course, but to a moral certainty, and while they won't be able to prove anything on us,
the state of the public mind is such that hell would pop."

"He says he won't fight another duel," said Black doubtfully.

"No."

"We've got to kill him in a street quarrel, then."

"He's got to be killed in a street quarrel," amended Ware, "that's certain; but nobody even
remotely connected with this Cora trial must seem to have anything to do with it. It must have
the appearance of a private quarrel from away outside. Otherwise----"

"Got anybody in mind?" asked the practical Black.

"Yes, and he ought to be here at any moment."

As though Jimmy Ware's words had been the cue for which he waited, Morrell here entered the room.

L

At three o'clock in the afternoon of May 14, 1856, the current issue of the Bulletin was placed
on sale. A very few minutes later a copy found its way into the hands of James Casey. Casey
at that time, in addition to his political cares, was editor of a small sheet he called the
Sunday Times. With this he had strenuously supported the extreme wing of the Law party, which,
as has been explained, comprised also the gambling and lawless element. It was suspected by
some that his paper was more or less subsidized for the purpose, though the probability is
that Casey found his reward merely in political support. This Casey it was who, to his own
vast surprise, had at a previous election been returned as elected supervisor; although he
was not a candidate, his name was not on the ticket, and no man could be found who had voted
for him. Indeed, he was not even a resident of the district. However, Yankee Sullivan, who
ran the election, said officially the votes had been cast for him; so elected he was proclaimed.
Undoubtedly he proved useful; he had always proved useful at elections elsewhere, seldom appearing
in person, but adept at selecting suitable agents. His methods were devious, dishonest, and
rough. He was head of the Crescent Fire Engine Company, and was personally popular. Like all
the gentlemen rovers of his time, he was exceedingly touchy on the subject of "honour."

Casey read this in the full knowledge that thousands of his fellow-citizens would also read
it. His thin face turned white with anger. He crumpled the paper into a ball and hurled it
violently into the gutter, settled his hat more firmly on his head, and proceeded at once to
the Bulletin office with the full intention of shooting King on sight. Probably he would have
done so, save for the accidental circumstance that King happened to be busy at a table, his
back squarely to the door. Casey could not shoot a man in the back without a word. He was breathless
and stuttering with excitement. King was alone, but an open door into an adjoining office permitted
two witnesses to see and hear.

"What do you mean by that article?" cried Casey in a strangled voice.

King turned slowly, and examined his visitor for a moment.

"What article?" he inquired at last.

"That which says I was formerly an inmate of Sing Sing!"

King gazed at him with a depth of detached, patient sadness in his dark eyes.

"Is it not true?" he asked finally.

"That is not the question," retorted Casey, trying again to work himself up to the rage in
which he had entered. "I do not wish my past acts rated up: on that point I am sensitive."

A faint smile came and went on King's lips.

"Are you done?" he asked still quietly;  then, receiving no reply, he turned in his chair and
leaned forward with a sudden intensity. His next words hit with the impact of bullets: "There's
the door! Go! Never show your face here again!" he commanded.

Casey found himself moving toward the open door. He did not want to do this, he wanted to shoot
King, or at least to provoke a quarrel, but he was for the moment overcome by a stronger personality.
He bounded from his seat bristling with anger.

"Go!" he commanded sharply, and Casey went.

LI

People had already read King's article in the Bulletin. People had seen Casey heading for the
Bulletin office with blood in his eye. The news had spread. When the Irishman emerged he found
waiting for him a curious crowd. His friends crowded around asking eager questions. Uttering
brags of this sort, Casey led the way to the Bank Exchange, a fashionable bar near at hand.
Here he set up the drinks, and was treated in turn. His bragging became more boastful. He made
a fine impression, but within his breast the taste of his interview with King curdled into
dangerous bitterness. Casey could never stand much alcohol. The well-meant admiration and sympathy
of his friends served only to increase his hidden, smouldering rage. His eyes became bloodshot,
and he talked even more at random.

In the group that surrounded him was our old acquaintance, Judge Edward McGowan--Ned McGowan--jolly,
hard drinking, oily, but not as noisy as usual. He was watching Casey closely. The Honourable
Ned was himself a fugitive from Pennsylvania justice. Some historians claim that he had furnished
King the documents proving Casey an ex-convict! Now, when he considered the moment opportune,
he drew Casey from the noisy group at the bar.

"All this talk is very well," he said contemptuously to the Irishman, "but I see through it.
What are you going to do about it?"

"I'll get even with the----, don't you worry about that!" promised Casey, still blustering.

This McGowan brushed aside as irrelevant. "Are you armed?" he asked. "No, that little weapon
is too uncertain. Take this." He glanced about him, and hastily passed to Casey a big "navy"
revolver. "You can hide it under your cloak--so!" He fixed Casey's eyes with his own, and brought
to bear on the little man all the force of his very vital personality, "Listen: King comes
by here every evening. Everybody knows that, and everybody knows what has happened."

He stared at Casey significantly for a moment, then turned abruptly away. Casey, become suddenly
quiet, his blustering mood fallen from him, his face thoughtful and white, his eyes dilated,
said nothing. He returned to the bar, took a solitary drink, and walked out the door, his right
hand concealed beneath his long cloak. McGowan watched him intently, following to the door,
and looking after the other's retreating form. Casey walked across the street, but stopped
behind a wagon, where he stood, apparently waiting. McGowan, with a grunt of satisfaction,
sauntered deliberately to the corner of the Bank Exchange. There he leaned against the wall,
also waiting.

For nearly an hoar the two thus remained: Casey shrouded in his cloak, apparently oblivious
to everything except the corner of Merchant and Montgomery streets, on which he kept his eyes
fixed; McGowan lounging easily, occasionally speaking a low word to a passerby. Invariably
the person so addressed came to a stop. Soon a little group had formed, idling with Judge McGowan.
A small boy happening by was commandeered with a message for Pete Wrightman, the deputy sheriff,
and shortly Pete arrived out of breath to join the group.

At just five o'clock the idlers stiffened to attention. King's figure was seen to turn the
corner of Merchant Street into Montgomery. Head bent, he walked toward the corner of the Bankers'
Exchange, the men on the corner watching him. When nearly at that point he turned to cross
the street diagonally.

At the same instant Casey stepped forward from behind the wagon, throwing back his cloak.

LII

The same afternoon Johnny Fairfax and Keith were sitting together in the Monumental's reading-room.
They happened to be the only members in the building with the exception of Bert Taylor, who
was never anywhere else. Of late Keith had acquired the habit of visiting the reading-room
at this empty hour. He was beginning to shrink from meeting his fellowmen. Johnny Fairfax was
a great comfort to him, for the express rider was never out of spirits, had a sane outlook,
and entertained a genuine friendship for the young lawyer. Although yet under thirty years
of age, he was already an "old-timer," for he had come out in '49, and knew the city's early
history at first hand.

"This old bell of yours is historical," he told Keith. "Its tolling called together the Vigilantes
of '51."

They sat gossiping for an hour, half sleepy with reaction from the fatigues of the day, smoking
slowly, enjoying themselves. Everything was very peaceful--the long slant of a sunbeam through
dust motes, the buzz of an early bluebottle, the half-heard activities of some of the servants
in the pantry beyond, preparing for the rush of the cocktail hour. Suddenly Johnny raised his
head and pricked up his ears.

"What the deuce is that!" he exclaimed.

They listened, then descended to the big open engine-room doors and listened again. From the
direction of Market Street came the dull sounds of turmoil, shouting, the growl and roar of
many people excited by something. Across the Plaza a man appeared, running. As he came nearer,
both could see that his face had a very grim expression.

"Here!" called Johnny, as the man neared them. "Stop a minute! Tell us what's the matter!"

The man ceased running, but did not stop. He was panting but evidently very angry. His words
came from between gritted teeth.

"Fight," he said briefly. "Casey and James King of William. King's shot."

At the words something seemed to be stilled in Keith's mind. Johnny seized the man by the sleeve.

"Hold on," he begged. "I know that kind of a fight. Tell us."

"Casey went up close to King, said 'come on,' and instantly shot him before King knew what
he was saying."

"Killed?"

"Fatally wounded."

"Where's Casey?"

"In jail--of course--where he's safe--with his friends."

"Where you headed for?"

"I'm going to get my gun!" said the man grimly, and began again to run.

They watched his receding figure until it swung around the corner and disappeared. Without
warning a white-hot wave of anger swept over Keith. All the little baffling, annoying delays,
enmities, technicalities, chicaneries, personal antagonisms, evasions that had made up the
Cora trial were in it. He seemed to see clearly the inevitable outcome of this trial also.
It would be another Cora-Richardson case over again. A brave spirit had been brutally blotted
out by an outlaw who relied confidently on the usual exoneration. With an exclamation Keith
darted into the engine house to where hung the rope ready for an alarm. An instant later the
heavy booming of the Monumental's bell smote the air.

LIII

Having given this alarm. Keith, Johnny at his elbow, started toward the centre of disturbance,
From it arose a dull, menacing roar, like the sound of breakers on a rocky coast. Many people,
with much excitement, shouting, and vituperation, were converging toward the common centre.
As this was approached, it became more difficult, at last impossible, to proceed. The streets
were packed, jammed. All sorts of rumours were abroad--King, was dead--King was only slightly
hurt--Casey was not in jail at all--Casey had escaped down the Peninsula--the United States
warships had anchored off the foot of Market Street and were preparing to bombard the city.
There was much rushing to and fro without cause. And over all the roar could be distinguished
occasionally single cries, as one may catch fragments of conversation in a crowded room, and
all of these were sinister: "Hang him!" "Where is he?" "Run him up on a lamp post!" "Bring
him out!" "He'll get away if left to the officers!" And over all the cries, the shouts, the
curses, the noise of shuffling feet, the very sound of heavy breathing-- that--the numbers
of the mob magnified to a muffled, formidable undernote, pealed louder and louder the Monumental
bell, which now Bert Taylor--or some one else--was ringing like mad.

Keith's eyes had become grim and inscrutable, and his mouth had settled into a hard, straight
line. Johnny's interest had at first centred in the mob, but after a few curious glances at
his companion he transferred it entirely to him, Johnny Fairfax was a judge of men and of crises;
and now he was invaded with a great curiosity to see how the one and the other were here to
work out. With a determination that would not be gainsaid, Keith thrust himself through the
crowd until he had gained an elevated coping. Here he stood watching. Johnny, after a glance
at his face, joined him.

Suddenly in the entrance of Dunbar Alley, next the city jail, a compact group of men with drawn
pistols appeared. They made their way rapidly to a carriage standing near, jumped in, and the
driver whipped up his horses. With a yell of rage the crowd charged down, but recoiled instinctively
before the presented pistols. The horses reared and plunged, and before anybody had gathered
his wits sufficiently to seize the bridles, the whole equipage had disappeared around the corner
of Kearney Street.

"I must say that was well done," said Johnny.

"North and Charles Duane, with Casey, inside," commented Keith, as dispassionately as though
reading from a catalogue. "Billy Mulligan and his deputies outside. That is to be remembered."

A great mob had surged after the disappearing vehicle, but at least fifty yards in the rear.
The remainder were following at a more leisurely pace. Almost immediately the street was empty.
Keith climbed slowly down from his coping.

"What do you intend doing?" asked Johnny curiously.

"Nothing yet."

"But they're getting him away!"

"No," said Keith, out of his local knowledge. "They're merely taking him to the county jail;
it's stronger."

They followed the crowd to the wide open space below the county jail. The latter was at that
period a solidly built one-story building situated atop a low bluff. Below it the marshal had
drawn up his officers. They stood coolly at ease. The mob, very excited, vociferated, surged
back and forth. North and his men, busily and coolly, but emphatically, were warning them,
over and over again, not to approach nearer. A single, concerted rush would have overwhelmed
the few defenders; but the rush was not made. Nevertheless, it could not be doubted that this
time the temper of the people was very determined. The excitement was growing with every minute.
Cries again took coherence.

"Hang him!" "Arrest the officers!" "Good, that's it!" "Let's take the jail!"

A man burst through the front ranks, clambered up the low bluff on which stood the jail, turned,
and attempted to harangue the crowd. He was instantly torn down by the officers. He fought
like a wild cat, and the crowd, on the hair trigger as it was, howled and broke forward. But
Marshal North, who really handled the situation intelligently, sharply commanded his men to
desist, and instantly to release the orator. He knew better than to allow the matter to come
to an issue of strength. Intensely excited, the man shouldered his way through the crowd, and,
assisted by many hands, mounted the balcony of a two-story house. Thence he began to harangue,
but so great was the confusion that he could not be heard.

"Who is he?" "Who is that man?" voices cried from a dozen points.

George Frank, a hotel keeper, possessed of a great voice, shouted back:

"That is Thomas King--"

An officer seized Frank hastily by the collar. "Stop or I'll arrest you!" he threatened.

"--brother of James King of William!" bellowed Frank, undaunted.

"Bully for you!" muttered Johnny Fairfax, whose eyes were shining.

Keith was watching the whole scene from beneath the brim of his hat, his eyes sombre and expressionless.
Johnny glanced at him from time to time, but said nothing.

From the balcony Thomas King continued to harangue the crowd. Little of what he said could
be heard, but he was at a white heat of excitement, and those nearest him were greatly aroused.
An officer made a movement to arrest him, but a hasty message from the sapient North restrained
that.

At that moment a great cheer burst out from the lower end of the street. Over the heads of
the crowd could be distinguished the glint of file after file of bayonets.

"That's the ticket!" cried an enthusiast near Keith and Johnny. "Here come the militia boys!
Now we'll soon have the jail!"

The bayonets bobbed steadily through the crowd, deployed in front of the jail, and turned to
face the mob. A great groan went up.

"Sold!" cried the enthusiast.

These were volunteers from the Law and Order party, hastily armed from the militia armouries,
and thrown in front of the jail for its protection.

Immediately they had taken position the jail door opened, and there appeared a rather short,
carefully dressed man, with side whiskers, carrying his hat in his hand. He stood for a moment,
appealing for attention, one arm upraised. Little by little the noise died down.

"Who is that?" inquired Johnny.

He received no reply from Keith, but the enthusiast informed him:

"That's our beloved mayor--Van Ness," said he.

"Not the popular orator," observed Johnny Fairfax.

More soldiers came, and then more, at short intervals, until the square was filled with shining
bayonets. Johnny was frankly disgusted. As a man of action he too well understood that this
particular crisis was practically over. From this mob the jail was safe.

"They lost their chance talking," he said. "They ought to have rushed the jail first pop. Now
the whole thing will fizzle out slowly. Let's go get supper."

Without reply Keith descended from his perch. They hunted some time for a restaurant. All were
closed for the sufficient reason that their staffs were on the streets. Finally they discovered
a Chinese chop house prepared to serve them, and here they ate. Johnny was voluble in his scorn
for the manner in which a golden opportunity had been allowed to slip by. Keith was very taciturn.

"Let's get out of here," he said abruptly at last. "Let's get some news."

They learned that King was still alive, though badly wounded in the left breast; that he could
not be moved; that he was attended by Dr. Beverly Cole and a half score of the best surgeons
of the city; that a mass meeting had been called at the Plaza. Indeed, there could be no doubt
that the centre of excitement had been shifted to the Plaza. Men by thousands, all armed, were
marching in that direction. Johnny and Keith found the square jammed, but the latter led the
way by devious alleys to the rear of the Monumental headquarters, and so out to a little second-story
balcony.

Below them the faces of the packed mass of humanity showed white in the dim light from the
street lamps and the buildings. Arms gleamed. Every roof top, every window, every balcony was
crowded. From the latter vehement orators held forth. All wanted to talk at once. Some of these
people were, as our chronicler of the time quaintly expresses it, "considerably tight." Keith
looked them all over with an appraising eye, listening at the same time to incendiary speeches
advising the battering down of the jail and the hanging of all its inmates. Occasionally one
of the cooler headed would get in a few words, but invariably was interrupted by some well-meaning
hot head.

There seemed to be a great diversity of opinion both among the people on the balcony and those
below. Keith listened attentively for a time, then, with the abruptness that had characterized
his movements and decisions since the moment he had heard the news of King's assassination,
he turned away.

"Let's go," he said briefly.

"Oh, hold on!" cried Johnny, aghast. "It's just the shank of the evening! We'll miss all the fun."

"There'll be nothing done," said Keith with decision.

"I'm more in hopes," persisted Johnny. "I'll bet there are ten thousand men here, armed and
angry, and getting angrier every minute. They could fairly eat up that lot at the jail."

"They won't," said Keith.

"I'll bet one good man could turn them loose in a minute."

Suddenly Keith's dour taciturnity broke. "You're perfectly right," he conceded; "but the point
is that good men won't lead a rabble. If we're to have good leaders we must have something
for them to lead. If we're to cure these conditions, we must do things in due order. This cannot
be remedied by mere excitement nor by deeds done under excitement. I have not yet seen anything
that promises either satisfaction or reform."

"What do you propose doing, then?" asked Johnny, his intuitions again satisfying him that here
was the man to tie to.

"Walk about," replied Keith.

They walked about. In the course of the evening they looked in on a dozen meetings of which
they had news--in the Pioneer Club, in rooms over the old Bella Union, in a saloon off Montgomery
Street, at the offices of various merchants. Keith looked carefully over the personnel of each
of these various meetings, listened a minute or so, and went out. By some of the men so gathered
Johnny was quite impressed, but Keith shook his head.

"These meetings are being held by clubs or cliques," he explained his disbelief in them. "They
influence a certain following, but not a general following. This must be a general movement
or none at all. The right people haven't taken hold."

About midnight he unexpectedly announced that he was going home and to bed. Johnny was frankly
scandalized,

"I think nothing will happen in this matter," said Keith,

"The time for mob violence has passed. If an attack were now to be made, I should consider
it unfortunate, and should not want to be mixed up in it, anyway. A mob attack is nothing but
a manifestation of sheer lawlessness."

"And you're keen for the dear law, of course," said Johnny with sarcasm.

"There is a difference between mere laws and the law. There is a time-- either here or coming
soon--when laws may be broken that justice may be done. But no popular movement will succeed
unless it has behind it the solemn, essential human law. Good-night."

LIV

On this same afternoon of King's assassination Nan Keith, was expecting Sansome in for tea.
Afternoon tea was then an exotic institution, practically unknown in California society. Ben
Sansome was about the only man of Nan's acquaintance who took it as a matter of course, without
either awkwardness, embarrassment, or ill-timed jest. The day had been fine, and several times
she had regretted her promise as she cast an eye at the glow over the gilt-edged tops of the
western hills. The sunset through the Golden Gate must to-day be very fine.

And Ben Sansome had failed her! She had made certain little especial preparations--picked flowers,
herself cut the sandwiches thin, put on her most becoming tea gown. As time passed she became
more and more annoyed. She was disappointed not so much at the absence of Ben Sansome as a
person as at the waste of her efforts.

But at six o'clock, when she had given him up, and was about to change from her tea gown, he
came in, full of apologies, very flustered, and bursting with news.

"King was shot on the street by Casey," he told her, trying not unsuccessfully for his habitual
detached manner. "I stopped to get the news for you. King is not dead, but probably fatally
wounded. Casey is in jail. There is a great public excitement--a mob is forming. I've been
expecting something of the sort. King has been pretty free with his comments."

At seven o'clock Nan jumped to her feet in a sudden panic.

"Why, I wonder where Milton is!" she cried. "He's never been so late as this before!"

"He's probably stayed downtown to follow the course of the excitement. Naturally he would.
He may not get home to supper at all."

Wing Sam announced supper. He was unheeded. Even Gringo, his ears cocked, watched the door,
getting up uneasily, whining, sniffing inquiringly, and lying down again. At half-past seven
Sansome firmly intervened.

"You're going to make yourself ill," he insisted, "if you don't eat something. I am hungry,
anyway, and I'm not going to leave you until he comes back."

"Oh, you must be starved! How thoughtless I am!" she cried.

Sansome, who, it must be confessed, had been somewhat chagrined at the apparent intensity of
her anxiety, was, within the next two hours, considerably reassured. Nan never did things halfway.
For the moment she had forgotten her guest. He was certainly very kind, very thoughtful--as
always--to stay here with her. She must not oppress his spirits. But the inner tension was
terrible. She felt that shortly something must snap. And after supper, when they had returned
to the drawing-room, a queer, low, growling, distant roar, borne on a chance shift of wind,
broke one of her sentences in the middle.

"What's that?" she cried, but before Sansome had replied, she knew what It was, the roar of
the mob! And Milton was somewhere there!

Suddenly a wave of reaction swept her, of anger. Why was he there? Why wasn't he at home? Why
had he made no attempt to relieve her cruel anxiety? A messenger--it would have been very simple!
And Ben Sansome was so kind-- as always. She turned to him with a new decision.

"I know you are dying to go see what is going on," she said. "You simply must not stay here
any longer on my account. I insist! Indeed, I think I'll go to bed." But Ben Sansome, his manner
becoming almost caressingly protective, would not listen.

"It isn't safe to leave you alone," he told her. "All the worst elements of the city will be
out. No woman should be left alone in times of such danger. I should feel most uneasy at leaving
you before your husband comes in."

His words were correct enough, but he managed to convey his opinion that he was only fulfilling
what should have been Keith's first and manifest duty. She made no reply. The conversation
languished and died. They sat in the lamplight opposite each other, occasionally exchanging
a word or so. Sansome was content and enjoying himself. He conceived that the stars were fighting
for him, and he was enjoying the hour. Nan, a prey alternately to almost uncontrollable fits
of anxiety and flaming resentment, could hardly sit still.

About midnight Gringo pricked up his ears and barked sharply. A moment later Keith came in.

He was evidently dead tired and wholly preoccupied. He hung up his hat absently. Nan had sprung
to her feet.

"Oh, how could you!" she cried, the pent exasperation in her voice. "I've been so anxious!
I didn't know what might have happened!"

"I'm all right," replied Keith briefly. "Sorry you were worried. No chance to send you word."

His apparent indifference added fuel to Nan's irritation.

"If it hadn't been for Ben, I should have been stark, staring crazy, here all alone!".

Keith for the first time appeared to notice Sansome's presence. He nodded at him wearily.

"Mighty good of you," said he. "I appreciate it."

"I thought some man ought to be in the house at a time of such public excitement," rejoined
Sansome significantly.

Keith failed to catch, or elected not to notice, the implication. Nan's cheeks turned red.

Without further remark Keith walked across to lock the window; returning, he extinguished a
small lamp on the side table. He was tired out, knew he must be up early, and wanted above
everything to get to bed. The hint was sufficiently obvious. Sansome rose. Nan's flush deepened
with mortification.

"Well, I'll just run along," said Sansome cheerfully. He did not ask for news of the evening,
nor did Keith volunteer it. Keith nodded at him briefly and indifferently. He did not mean
to be rude, but his wearied mind was filled to the exclusion of everything else with the significance
of this day.

Nan, feeling that she must make amends, followed Sansome into the hall. Her anxiety for Keith's
safety relieved, her whole reaction was indignantly toward Sansome.

"I'm sorry to have you go," she said, with a feeling that other circumstances could not have
called out, "I don't know what I'd have done without you!"

Sansome's sensitive intuitions thrilled to the feeling.

"Your husband is here to take care of you--now," he murmured. "I must be off." He took her
hand, and bent over her, gazing into her eyes with the concentration of a professional hypnotist,
"Good-night," he said, with a world of unexpressed meaning. "Try to get some sleep--Nan," He
said her name in a lower tone, almost lingeringly, then turned abruptly and went out.

Nan stood looking for a moment at the closed door. The effect of his personality was on her
spirit, the mantle of his care for her, his consideration for her every mood, wrapped her about
gratefully.

She found the lights all out, and Keith already half undressed.

"I must say, Milton," she said, "you might have been a little less rude to Mr. Sansome. It
would have only been decent after he had sat up here until all hours."

Keith, whose wide eyes would have showed him to be wholly preoccupied with some inner vision
or problem, answered impatiently from the surface of his mind:

"What in the world did I do to Sansome?"

"You didn't do anything, that's the trouble. Do you realize he waited here over six hours for
you to come in?"

"Oh, I guess he'll pull through," said Keith a little contemptuously.

Nan became indignant.

"At least," she retorted, "you ought to be grateful that he stayed to protect the place!"

"The place was in no danger," said Keith, yawning.

She checked herself, and made a fresh start.

"What's it all about? What's happened? Where have you been?" she asked.

Keith roused himself with an effort.

"I've been a little of everywhere. Lord, I'm tired! There's a mob about trying to get up nerve
to hang Casey. I suppose you've heard that Casey shot King this afternoon?"

"Yes, I heard that."

"Well, when I saw nothing was going to happen, I came home, though I'm not sure the trouble
is over."

Having said this, Keith fell gratefully to his pillow. Nan was nervous, wide-awake, curious.
She asked a number of questions. Keith answered with extreme brevity. He was temporarily exhausted.
Shortly he fell asleep between two sentences.

LV

The following morning Keith woke early, slipped to the kitchen where he was fed by Wing Sam,
and was downtown before Nan, who had not so promptly fallen asleep, had yet stirred. Even at
that hour the streets were crowded. Many--and the majority of these were "considerably tight,"
or otherwise looking the worse for wear--had been up all night, unable to tear themselves away
from the fascinating centres of excitement. The majority, however, had, like Keith, snatched
some repose, and now were out eager to discover what a new day might bring forth.

The morning newspapers had been issued. Each man held a copy of one of them open at the editorial
column, and others tucked away under his arm. Never had there been such a circulation; and
in the case of the Herald never would so many be sold again. If there had been any doubt as
to the depth to which public opinion was at last stirred, the reception of the Herald's editorial
would have settled it. Actually, for the moment, indignation seemed to run more strongly against
that sheet than against Casey himself.

Keith glanced over this editorial with a half smile, tossed the paper in the gutter, and opened
the Alta for news. King, still living, had been removed from the office of the Express Company
to a room in the Montgomery Block. There, attended by his wife, Dr. Beverly Cole, and a whole
corps of volunteer physicians, he was making a fight for life. The bullet had penetrated his
left breast. That was all that was to be reported at present. Keith glanced at the third page.

While he was still gazing thoughtfully at this Johnny Fairfax, fresh as the morning, appeared
at his elbow.

"Hello, wise man," he greeted him cheerily. "You were a good prophet--and you got some sleep.
I hung around all night, but nothing new was done."

"Look here," said Keith, placing his finger on the notice, "do you suppose this genuine?"

Johnny read the notice.

"Couldn't say."

"Because if this is actually the old Committee of '51, it means business."

"There's one way to find out."

"How's that?"

"Go and see," advised Johnny. Already the hall was packed to its full capacity, the entrance
ways jammed, and a big crowd had gathered in the streets.

"Fine chance we have here!" observed Johnny ruefully.

They stood well free of the press for a few moments, watching. More men were coming from all
directions. But Johnny was resourceful, and likewise restless.

"Let's prowl around a little," he suggested to his companion.

They prowled to such good purpose that they discovered, at the rear of the building, opening
into a blind alley, a narrow wooden stairway. It was unguarded and untenanted.

"Here we are," pronounced Johnny.

They ascended it, and immediately found themselves In a small room back of the stage or speaker's
platform, It contained about a score of men. Their aspect was earnest, serious, grave. Although
there was a sufficiency of chairs, they were all afoot, gathered in a loose group, in whose
centre stood William Coleman, his massive shoulders squared, his large bony, hands clenched
at his side, his florid complexion even more flushed than usual, his steady eye travelling
slowly from one face to another, Again the strange contradictions in, his appearance struck
Keith with the impact of a distinct shock--the low smoothed hair, the sweeping blue-black moustache,
the vivid colour, and high cheek bones of the typical gambler--the clear eye, firm mouth, incisive,
deliberate speech, the emanation of personality that inspired confidence. Next him, talking
earnestly, stood Clancey Dempster, a small man, mild of manner, blue eyed, with light, smooth
hair, the last man in the room one would have picked for great firmness and courage, yet destined
to play one of the leading roles in this crisis. As Keith recognized these men, and others
of their stamp, he nodded his head contentedly.

Johnny Fairfax must have caught the same impression, for he leaned across to whisper to Keith,
his eyes shining:

"We've hit it!"

Their entrance had passed unnoticed in the absorption of discussion. Coleman was speaking,
evidently in final decision.

"It is a serious business," said he. "Shall we have vigilance with order or a mob with anarchy?"

Coleman pondered a moment, then threw up his head.

"On two conditions I will accept the responsibility--absolute obedience, absolute secrecy."

Without waiting for a reply to this he threw open a door, and followed by the others, stepped
out on the platform. A roar greeted their appearance. Johnny and Keith, remaining modestly
in the background, lingered near the open door.

The hall was filled to its utmost capacity. Every inch of floor space was occupied, and men
perched on sills, clung to beams. Coleman raised his hand and obtained an immediate dead silence.

A roar of assent answered him.

He turned and reentered the anteroom followed by the others. In so doing he came face to face
with the intruders.

"This is not your place, gentlemen," he told them courteously.

They retired down the narrow back stairs and joined the huge throng that filled the streets,
waiting patiently and quietly, its eyes fixed on the closed doors of the hall. In a remarkably
short time these doors were thrown open. Those nearest surged forward. A rough quadruple queue
was formed extending down the street. There was no talk nor smiles, none of the usual rough
joking. Each waited his turn without impatience.

Johnny Fairfax and Keith, owing to the chance that they had, entered the crowd from the nearby
alley and found themselves close to the head of the line. As they neared the entrance, and
so could hear what was there going on, they found that each applicant was being closely scrutinized
and interrogated. The great majority passed this ordeal, but several men were peremtorily turned
back with a warning not to try again.

Keith's turn came. He was conscious of the scrutiny of many eyes; he heard the word "pass"
pronounced by some one in the background, and climbed the stairs. At the top he was directed
to an anteroom at the left. Here behind a table sat Coleman, Dempster, and a third man unknown
to him. To them he repeated the words of an oath of secrecy, and then was passed into another
room where Isaac Bluxome sat behind a ledger. In this he wrote his name.

"Your number is 178," said Bluxome to him, "By that number, and not by your name, you are henceforth
to be known here. Never use names, always their numbers, in referring to other members."

Thence Keith was directed to the main hall where were those already admitted. These were gathered
in groups discussing the situation. In a moment Johnny Fairfax joined him.

"179, I am," said Johnny. His eyes swept the hall. "Not much mob spirit about this; it looks
like business."

They hung around for an hour. The hall slowly filled. Finally, learning that nothing further
was to be done until the enrollment had finished, they wandered out again into the street.
The unbroken lines of applicants extended as far down the street as the eye could see.

All that day the applicants, orderly and grim with purpose, were passed through in line. By
mid-day it was seen that the Know-Nothing Hall was going to be too small for the meeting that
would later take place. Therefore, a move was made to the Turnverein Hall. After enrolling,
no man departed from the vicinity for long. The latter rumour was immediately verified by the
energetic activities of that able citizen. He, or his messengers, darted here and there searching
for individuals wanted as doorkeepers, guards, or police officers. His regulations also began
to be felt. By evening only registered members of the committee were allowed on the floor of
the hall, even the expostulating reporters being gently but firmly ejected.

Nobody manifested the least excitement or impatience.

"A military organization is deemed necessary," he said crisply. "Numbers one to one hundred
will please assemble in the southwest corner of the room; numbers one hundred and one to two
hundred will take the first window; numbers two hundred and one to three hundred the second
window, and so on." He hesitated and looked over the assembly. "Que les Francais, se mettent
au centre," he ended.

This command in a foreign language was made necessary by the extraordinary number of Frenchmen
who had first answered the call of gold in the El Dorado of '49; and then with equal enthusiasm
responded to this demand for essential justice.

Coleman waited while the multitude shifted here and there. When the component parts had again
come to rest he made his next announcement:

"Now each company will elect its own officers, but those officers are subject to the orders
of the Executive Committee."

Numbers one hundred and one to two hundred inclusive, the company in which Keith and Johnny
Fairfax found themselves, were for the most part strangers to one another, They exchanged glances,
hesitating as to how to begin. Then a small, spectacled, man spoke up.

"Gentlemen," said he, "we must get organized as rapidly as possible, Mr, Coleman is waiting.
We need for a leader a man who is experienced in active life. I nominate John Fairfax as captain
of this company."

Johnny gasped and turned red.

"Who's your little friend?" Keith whispered.

"Never saw him before in my life," replied Johnny.

The announcement was received with indecision. Nobody immediately replied or commented aloud
on the nomination, but men were asking each other in undertones. The little spectacled man
saw this, and spoke up again:

"Perhaps I should say that Mr. Fairfax is better known as Diamond Jack."

Faces cleared, heads nodded. A murmur of recognition replaced the puzzled frowning, "Good man,"
"The express rider," "Danny Randall's man," they told each other.

"I do not know Mr. Fairfax," the spectacled man was saying, "but I saw his name just before
mine on the register."

"This is Fairfax," said Keith, thrusting the reluctant Johnny forward.

He was elected to the post by acclamation.

"Nominations for a lieutenant?" suggested the spectacled man, but Keith interrupted.

"If you all have as much confidence in Mr. Fairfax as I have," said he, "perhaps you'll give
him free hand and let him pick his own officers."

This seemed a good idea, and was instantly adopted.

"Well, I thank you, gentlemen," said Johnny, "and we'll do our best to become efficient. Report
your names and addresses to this gentleman here--"

"Willey," supplied the little man.

"We shall drill to-morrow at eight sharp. Bring whatever weapons----"

But Coleman was again speaking and on this very subject:

"The committee have arranged with George Law," he was saying, "to supply or hire muskets to
the number of several thousands. These weapons will be at this hall to-morrow morning early.
Company captains can then make their requisitions."

A murmur of inquiry swept the hall. "George Law? Where did he get several thousand muskets?"

Shortly after Coleman dismissed the meeting. Its members dispersed to their homes. Absolute
quiet descended on the city, which slept under the moon.

LVI

To the  thoughtful bystander all this preparation had its significance and its portent, which
became the stronger when he contemplated the dispositions of the Law and Order party. The latter
had been not less vigorous, and its strength could not be doubted. The same day that marked
the organization of the Vigilantes saw the regular police force largely increased. In addition,
the sheriff issued thousands of summonses to citizens, calling on them for service on a posse.
These were in due form of the law. To refuse them meant to put one's self outside the law.
A great many of them were responded to, for this reason only, by men not wholly in sympathy
with either side. Once the oath was administered, these new deputies were confronted by the
choice between perjury and service. To be sure the issuance of these summonses forced many
of the neutral minded into the ranks of the Vigilantes. The various military companies were
mustered, reminded of their oaths, called upon solemnly to fulfil their sworn duty, and marched
to various strategic points about the jail and elsewhere. Parenthetically, their every appearance
on the streets was well hissed by the populace. The leaders of the Law and Order party were
jubilant. Their position appeared to be impregnable. They felt that back of them was all the
weight of constituted authority, reaching, if need be, to the Federal Government at Washington.
Opposed to them was lawlessness. Lawlessness had occasionally become dignified revolution,
to be sure, but only when a race took its stand on a great issue; never when a handful espoused
a local quarrel. Civil war it might be; but civil war, the wise politicians argued, must spread
to become effective; and how could a civil war based on the shooting of an obscure editor in
a three-year-old frontier town spread anywhere? Especially such an editor as James King of William.

For King had made many bitter enemies. In attacking individual members of a class he had often
unreasonably antagonized the whole class. He had with entire reason attacked a certain scalawag
of a Roman Catholic priest--a man the church itself must soon have taken in hand--but had somehow
managed to offend all Roman Catholics in doing so; likewise, there could be no question that
his bitter scorn for "the chivalry" was well justified, but the manner of its expression offended
also the decent Southerners. And all these people saw the Vigilantes, not as a protest against
a condition that had become intolerable, but as the personal champions of King. The enemies
of King, many of them worthy citizens, quite out of sympathy with the present methods of administering
the law, became the enemies of the Vigilantes.

No wonder the Law and Order party felt no uneasiness. They did not underestimate the determination
of their opponents. It was felt that fighting, severe fighting, was perhaps inevitable. The
Law and Order party loved fighting. They had chosen as their commander William Tecumseh Sherman,
later to gain his fame as a great soldier. His greatness in a military capacity seems to have
been exceeded only by his inability to remember facts proved elsewhere by original historical
documents. This is the only possible explanation for the hash of misstatements comprising those
chapters in his "Memoirs" dealing with this time.

And as a final source of satisfaction, the Vigilantes had placed themselves on record. Every
man could be apprehended and made to feel the weight of the law. A mob is irresponsible and
anonymous. These fools had written down their names in books!

LVII

Now a new element was injected into the situation in the person of the governor of the State,
one J. Neely Johnson, a politician who would long since have been utterly forgotten had not
his unlucky star risen just at this unlucky time. A more unfortunate man for a crisis it would
have been difficult to find. His whole life had been one of trimming; he had made his way by
trimming; he had gained the governor's chair by yielding to the opinions of others. This training
combined perfectly with the natural disposition of a chameleon. His private morals were none
of the best, which gave certain men an added hold.

On receipt of the message sent by the Law and Order party--but not, be it noted, by the proper
authorities--requesting the State militia, Governor Johnson came down post-haste from Sacramento.
He was shown to a private room where he found Johnson pacing up and down alone. Coleman bowed
gravely in response to the governor's airy greeting. Johnson sat down, offered cigars, made
every effort to appear amiable and conciliatory.

"This is bad; this is bad, Coleman," he began the interview. "What is it you want?"

"Peace," replied Coleman, "and if possible without a struggle."

"That's all very well," said Johnson pettishly, "to talk about peace with an army of insurrection
newly raised. But what is it you actually wish to accomplish?"

Coleman looked at him steadily, then leaned forward.

"The law is crippled," he told the governor in measured tones. "We want merely to accomplish
what the crippled law should do but cannot. This done, we will gladly retire. He extended his
strong fist and laid it on the table. "If you deem it the conscientious duty of your office
to discountenance these proceedings--as perhaps you well may--then let your opposition be in
appearance only. In your heart you must know the necessity of this measure; you know the standing
of the men managing it, You know that this is no mob, no distempered faction. It is San Francisco
herself who speaks! Let California stand aside; let her leave us to our shame and sorrow; for,
as God lives, we will cleanse this city of her corruption or perish with her! So we have sworn!"

This long speech, delivered with the solemnity of absolute conviction, profoundly impressed
Johnson's volatile nature.

"But," he objected uncertainly, "Coleman, you must understand! This is against the law--and
I have sworn to uphold the law!"

"That is a matter for your own conscience," rejoined Coleman a little impatiently. "Issue your
proclamation, if you feel that the dignity of the law may be best maintained by frowning on
justice--but confine yourself to that! Leave us alone in our righteous purposes!"

Johnson, his chameleon soul aglow with enthusiasm, leaped to his feet and seized Coleman's
two hands. In his eye stood a tear.

"Sir," he cried, "go on with your work! Let it be done as speedily as possible! You have my
best wishes!"

Coleman did not relax his formal gravity.

"I am glad you feel that way, and that we understand each other," he contented himself with saying.

The heroic moment past, Johnson's restless mind began to glance among anxieties.

"But hasten the undertaking as much as you can," he begged. "The opposition is stronger than
you suppose. The pressure on me is going to be terrible. What about the prisoners in the jail?"
asked Johnson anxiously. "What is your immediate plan?"

"That is in the hands of the committee," evaded Coleman.

He left the governor, again pacing up and down.

LVIII

Coleman returned at once to the hall to resume his interrupted labours with the committee.
The results of his conference with the governor seemed very satisfactory,

"We can now go ahead with free minds," said Clancey Dempster.

The business was astonishingly varied in scope. Charles Doane--not to be confused with Duane,
the ex-fire chief--was appointed military commander- in-chief; Colonel Johns, captain of artillery;
Olney was given the task of guarding the jail from the outside "with a force numerous enough
to prevent escape." After considerable discussion Aaron Burns was made head of a civilian committee
to take charge of all prisoners. It was moved and carried that no city or county official should
be admitted to membership, a striking commentary on the disesteem in which such men were held.
Permanent headquarters were arranged for; committees appointed for the solicitation of funds.
A dozen other matters of similar detail were taken up, intelligently discussed, and provided
for with the celerity of men trained in crises of business or life. A slight pause followed
its introduction, as though each member present were savouring the significance of the moment.

"Are you ready for the question?" asked Coleman in grave tones. "Those in favour----"

"Aye," came the instant response from every man present.

A messenger opened the door to announce that Governor Johnson was in the anteroom requesting
speech with Coleman. The latter, handing his gavel to Dempster, immediately answered the summons.
Without waiting for the exchange of spoken greetings, he burst out:

"We have come to ask what you intend to do," he demanded truculently of Coleman, as though
he had never seen or talked to him before.

Coleman stared at him for an instant, completely surprised; read him; set his mouth grimly.

"Outrages are of constant occurrence," he recited briefly; "our suffrages are profaned, our
fellow-citizens shot down in the street, our courts afford us no redress, we will endure it
no longer."

A flush mounted Coleman's cheek.

"Sir!" he cried indignantly, "this is no mob! You know this is no mob!"

Johnson looked at him from between half-closed lids, as though from a great distance.

"The opposition is stronger than you imagine," he said. "There is danger to the city--great
danger of bloodshed--which should be prevented if possible." He paused, focussed his whole
attention on Coleman, and went on with deliberate significance: "It may be necessary to bring
out all the force at my command. I strongly advise you to leave the case of Casey to the courts;
and I pledge myself to his fair and speedy trial."

Although realizing fully what a formidable element this change of front threw into the situation,
Coleman's expression did not change: Sherman, watching him closely, could not see that his
eyes even flickered,

"That will not satisfy the people," he told the governor, coldly and formally. "However they
might consider your intention, they will doubt your ability to keep such a promise," He was
going to say more, but checked, himself abruptly. The silent but intent attitude of the governor's
four companions had struck his attention. "They are present as witnesses!" he told himself.
Aloud he said, "Sir, I will report your remarks to my associates," Coleman wanted witnesses, too.

He returned to the committee, interrupting the proceedings,

"The governor has flopped over the fence." he informed them. "He is out there with Sherman
and some others threatening to bring in the State troops unless we turn Casey over to the courts
and disband. He personally guarantees a fair and speedy trial."

"What did you tell him?" demanded Hossfros.

"I haven't told him anything. It suddenly occurred to me that I ought to have witnesses for
my side of the conversation, What do you think?"

"Same as I've always thought," replied Ward.

A murmur of assent greeted this.

After a remarkably brief discussion, considering the delicacy of the crisis, Coleman with others
returned to the anteroom.

"Sorry to have kept you waiting," he said blandly, "but some consideration of the question
was necessary. Let us understand each other clearly.

"That is it," agreed Johnson, after a moment's focussing of his mind. For the first time it
became evident to Coleman that the man had a trifle too much aboard.

"We doubt your ability to do this," went on Coleman, "but we are ready to meet you halfway.

"And," added Isaac Bluxome, "that they be fed and kept and treated well. That's part of the
bargain."

"Why, that sounds fair and reasonable, gentlemen!" the governor cried heartily. "I see no objection
to that! I was sure we could come to an agreement!"

He was suddenly all cordiality, all smiles, shaking each man's hand in turn. His companions
retained their manner of glacial formality, however. He shortly withdrew, full of spirits,
very much relieved at the lifting of what seemed to him a cloud of unjust oppression for a
poor official who merely wanted peace. The real situation, evident enough to the keener brains
on either side, was veiled to him. For poor Johnson had thus far stepped from one blunder into
another. And to cap it all, he had for the second time treated with "rebels" and to their advantage.

This little weakness was immediately and vigorously pointed out to Johnson when he returned
triumphantly to his hotel. Keen minds were plenty in the Law and Order party. Johnson was crestfallen.
Like all men of little calibre elevated by expediency to high office, he wanted above everything
to have peace, to leave things as they were, to avoid friction.

"Upon my word, gentlemen!" cried the governor, dismayed, "I did it for the best; and I assure
you I am still convinced that this agreement--entered into in all faith, and sincerity----"

"Bosh!" boomed Judge Caldwell.

"I beg your pardon!" said Johnson, flushing.

"I said 'bosh,'" repeated the judge, bringing the point of his cane against the floor. "You've
muddied it, as every sensible man can see. Best thing is to put a bold face on it. Take it
for granted that the committee has promised to surrender all right of action, and that they
have promised definitely to leave the case to the courts."

"I hardly think they intended that," murmured Johnson.

"Meant!" snorted the judge. "The words will bear that interpretation, won't they? Who cares
what they meant!"

The following morning this version was industriously passed about. When Coleman heard of it
he pulled his long moustache,

"The time has come," he said with decision. "After that, it is either ourselves or a mob."

He went immediately to the hall.

"Call Olney," he told a messenger. The head of the guard was soon before him.

"Olney," said his chief, "will you accept the command of a picked company in an important but
somewhat perilous movement?"

Olney's tall form stiffened with pleasure.

"I will--with thanks!"

"Well, then, pick out from all the forces, of whatever companies, sixty men. Accept none but
men--of the very highest bravery. Let them know that they are chosen for the post of danger,
which is the post of honour, and permit none to serve who does not so esteem it."

Olney saluted, and went at once to the main floor, which, for drilling purposes, was shared
by four companies. He stood still until his eye fell on Johnny Fairfax--him he called aside.

"You can get the whole sixty right here if you want to," Johnny told him. "But if you want
to distribute things----"

"I do," said Olney.

"Then I'd take Keith, Carter, that teamster McGlynn, and Salisbury."

Together they went the rounds of the impromptu armouries, going carefully over the rolls, picking
a man here and there. By eight o'clock the sixty, informed, equipped, and ready, were gathered
at the hall. Olney dismissed all others, and set himself to drilling his picked body.

"I don't care whether you can do 'shoulder arms' or not," he said, "but you've got to learn
simple evolutions so I can handle you. And you must learn one another's faces. Now, come on!"

At two o'clock in the morning he expressed himself as satisfied. From the stock of blankets
with which the headquarters were already provided they selected, bedding, and turned in on
the floor. At six o'clock Olney began to send out detachments for breakfast.

"Feed up," he advised them. "I don't know what this is all about, but it pays to eat well."

By eight o'clock every man was in his place, lined up to rigid attention as Coleman entered
the building.

"There they are!" said Olney proudly. "Every man of them of good, tough courage, and you can
handle them as well as any old soldiers!" Some of the leaders and captains, among whom were
Doane, Olney, and Talbot Ward, were summoned to Coleman's room. Shortly they emerged, and circulated
through the hall giving to each captain of a company detailed and explicit directions. Each
was instructed as to what hour he and his command were to start; from what given point; along
exactly what route; and at exactly what time he was to arrive at another given point--not a
moment sooner or later. Each was ignorant as to the instructions given the others. Never was
a plan better laid out for concerted action, and probably never before had such a plan been
so well carried out. Each captain listened attentively, returned to head his company, thoughtful
with responsibility.

Olney gave the orders to his picked, company in person. They were told to leave their muskets.
Armed only with pistols, they were to make their way by different routes to the jail.

Keith, and Johnny Fairfax started out together, "This is a mistake, as far as I am concerned,"
observed Keith to his companion. "I can't shoot a pistol. I ought to be in the rank and file,
not with this picked lot. They chose me merely because I was your friend."

"You can make a noise, anyway," replied Johnny, whose eyes were alight with excitement. "I
wonder what's up? This looks like business! I wouldn't miss it for a million dollars!"

Apparently the general populace had no inkling that anything was forward. The streets were
much as usual except that an inordinate amount of street- corner discussion seemed to be going
on; but that in view of the circumstances was normal. A broad-beamed Irish woman, under full
sail alone accosted them. Her face Keith vaguely recognized, but he could not have told where
he had seen it.

"I hear Mr. King, God rest him, is better," she said. "And what are the men going to do with
that villain, Casey? If the men don't hang him, the women will!".

A little farther Keith stopped short at sight of two men hurrying by.

"Hold on, Watkins!" he called.

The four of them drew aside a little, out of the way.

"Weren't you in the jail guard?" asked Keith.

Watkins nodded.

"How does it happen you're outside?"

"The committee sent notice that the truce was over."

Johnny uttered an exultant yell, which he cut short shamefacedly when a dozen passersby looked
around.

LIX

It happened  on this day that Nan Keith had refused an invitation to ride with Ben Sansome,
but had agreed as a compromise to give him a cup of tea late in the afternoon. Nan's mood was
latterly becoming more and more restless. It was an unconscious reflection of the times, unconscious
because she had no real conception of what was going on. In obedience to Keith's positively
expressed request she had kept away from the downtown districts, leaving the necessary marketing
to Wing Sam. For the moment, as has been explained, her points of touch with society were limited.
It happened that before the trouble began the Keiths had been subscribers to the Bulletin and
the Herald, and these two journals continued to be delivered. Neither of them gave her much
idea of what was really going on. For a moment her imagination was touched by the blank space
of white paper the Bulletin left where King's editorials had usually been printed, but Thomas
King's subsequent violence had repelled her. The Herald, after rashly treating the "affray"
as a street brawl, lost hundreds of subscribers and most of its advertising. It shrunk to a
sheet a quarter of its usual size. Naturally, its editor, John Nugent, was the more solidly
and bitterly aligned with the Law and Order party. The true importance of the revolt, either
as an ethical movement or merely as regards its physical size, did not get to Nan at all. She
knew the time was one of turmoils and excitements. She believed the city in danger of mobs.
Her attitude might be described as a mixture of fastidious disapproval and a sympathetic restlessness.

About the middle of the afternoon Mrs. Sherwood came up the front walk and rang the bell. Nan,
sitting behind lace curtains, was impressed by her air of controlled excitement. Mrs. Sherwood
hurried. She hurried gracefully, to be sure, and with a reminiscence of her usual feline indolence;
but she hurried, nevertheless. Therefore, Nan herself answered the bell, instead of awaiting
the deliberate Wing Sam.

"My dear," cried Mrs. Sherwood, "get your mantle, and come with me. There's something going
to happen-something big!"

She refused to answer Nan's questions.

"You'll see," was all the reply she vouchsafed. "Hurry!"

They crossed by the new graded streets where the sand hills had been, and soon found themselves
on the low elevations above the county jail. Mrs. Sherwood led the way to the porch of a onestory
wooden house that appeared to be unoccupied.

"This is fine!" she said with satisfaction.

The jail was just below them, and they looked directly across the open square in front of it
and the convergence of two streets.

In contrast to this one little spot of excited activity, the rest of the scene was almost superlatively
peaceful. People were drifting in from all the side streets, but they were sauntering slowly,
as though without particular interest; they might have been going to or coming from church.
A warm, basking, Sunday feel was in the sunshine. There was not the faintest breeze. Distant
sounds carried clearly, as the barking of a dog-- it might have been Gringo shut up at home--or
the crowing of a distant cock. From the square below arose the murmur of a multitude talking.
The groups of people increased in frequency, in numbers. Black forms began to appear on roof
tops all about; white faces at windows. Before she fairly realized that many were gathering,
Nan looked down on twenty thousand people. They took their positions quietly, and waited. There
was no shouting, no demonstration, so little talking that the low murmur never rendered inaudible
the barking of the dog or the crowing of the distant cock. The doors of the jail had closed.
Men ceased going in and out. The armed forces on the roof were increased.

Nan had left off asking questions of Mrs. Sherwood, who answered none. The feeling of tense
expectation filled her also. What was forward? Was this a mob? Why were these people gathered?
Somehow they gave her the impression that they, too, like Mrs. Sherwood and herself, were waiting
to see.

After a long time she saw the closely packed crowd down the vista of one of the converging
streets move in the agitation of some disturbance. A moment later the sun caught files of bayonets.
At the same instant the same thing happened at the end of the other converging street. The
armed columns came steadily forward, the people giving way. Their men were dressed in sober
citizens' clothes. The shining steel of the bayonets furnished the only touch of uniform. Quietly
and steadily they came forward, the snake of steel undulating and twisting like a living thing.
The two columns reached the convergence of the street together. As they entered the square
before the jail, a third and fourth column debouched from side streets, and others deployed
into view on the hills behind. The timing was perfect. One minute the prospect was empty of
all but spectators, the next it was filled with grim and silent armed men.

Near the two women and among chance spectators on the piazza of the deserted house a well-known
character of the times leaned against one of the pillars. This was Colonel Gift. In this crisis
Colonel Gift's sympathies may be guessed. He watched the scene below him with a sardonic eye.
As the armed columns wheeled into place and stood at attention, he turned to a man standing near.

Mrs. Sherwood turned an amused eye in his direction. The colonel, for the first time becoming
aware of her presence, swept off his black slouch hat and apologized profusely for the "damn."
Even the murmur died. Again everybody waited. Their preliminary task of watching the jail for
a possible escape finished, they had been again gathered. With beautiful military precision
they wheeled and came to rest facing the frowning walls of the jail, the cannon pointed at
the door.

Nan gasped sharply, and seized Mrs. Sherwood's arm with both hands. She had recognized Keith
standing by the right wheel of the cannon. He was looking straight ahead, and the expression
on his face was one she had never seen there before. Suddenly something swelled up within her
breast and choked her. The tears rushed to her eyes.

Quite deliberately, each motion in plain sight, the cannon was loaded with powder and ball.
A man lit a slow match, blew it painstakingly to a glow, then took his position at the breech.
The slight innumerable sounds of these activities died. The bustle of men moving imperceptibly
fell. Not even the coughing and sneezing usual to a gathering of people paying attention was
heard, for the intense interest inhibited these nervous symptoms. Probably never have twenty
thousand people, gathered in one place, made their presence so little evident. A deep, solemn
stillness brooded over them. The spring sun lay warm and grateful on men's shoulders; the doves
and birds, the distant dogs and roosters, cooed and twittered, barked and crowed.

Nothing happened for full ten minutes.

Then a man on horseback was seen pushing his way through the crowd. He rode directly up to
the jail door, on which he rapped thrice with the handle of his riding whip. Against the silence
these taps, but gently delivered, sounded sharp and staccato. After a moment the wicket opened.
The rider, without dismounting, handed through it a note; then, with a superb display of the
old-fashioned horsemanship, backed his horse half the length of the square where he, too, came
to rest.

"Who is he?" whispered Nan. Why she whispered she could not have told.

"Charles Doane," answered Mrs. Sherwood, in the same voice.

Another commotion down the street. Again the ranks parted and closed again, this time to admit
three carriages driven rapidly. As they came to a stop the muskets all around the square leaped
to the "present." So disconcerting was this sudden slap and rattle of arms after the tenseness
of the last half hour, that men dodged back as though from a blow. With admirable precision,
Olney's men, obeying a series of commands, moved forward from the gun to form a hollow square
around the carriages. Only the man with the burning slow match was left standing by the breech.

From the carriages then descended Coleman, Truett, Talbot Ward, Smiley, and two other men whom
neither Nan nor Mrs. Sherwood recognized. Amid the dead silence they walked directly to the
jail door, Olney's Sixty breaking the square and deploying close at their heels. A low colloquy
through the wicket now took place. At length the door swung slowly open. The committee entered.
The door swung shut after them. Again the people waited, but now once more arose the murmur
of low-toned conversation.

LX

Up to this day Casey had been very content with his situation. His quarters were the best the
place afforded, and they had been made more comfortable. Scores of friends had visited him,
hailing him as their champion. He had been made to feel quite a hero. To be sure it was a nuisance
to be so confined; but when he shot King, he had anticipated undergoing some inconvenience.
It was a price to pay. He understood that there was some public excitement, and that it was
well to lie low for a little until that had died down. The momentary annoyance would be more
than offset by later prestige. Casey did not in the least fear the courts. He had before his
eyes too many reassuring examples. His friends were rallying nobly to his defence. Over the
wines and cigars, with which he was liberally supplied, they boasted of their strength and
their dispositions--the whole police force of the city, the militia companies sworn, to act
in just such emergencies, hundreds of volunteers, if necessary the whole power of the State
of California called to put down this affronting of duly constituted law!

But this Sunday morning Casey was uneasy. There seemed to be much whispering in corners, much
bustling to and fro. He paced back and forth, fretting, interrogating those about him. But
they could or would tell him little--there was trouble;--and they fussed away, leaving Casey
alone. As a matter of fact, the withdrawal of the committee's guard of ten, and the formal
notice that the truce was thus promptly ended, had caught the Law and Order party unprepared.
With five hours' notice--or indeed by next day, even were no notice given--the jail would have
been impregnably defended. The sudden move of the committee won; as prompt, decisive moves will.

The bustling of the people in the jail suddenly died. Casey heard no shuffle of feet, no whisper
of conversation. The building might have been empty save for himself. But he did hear outside
the steady rhythmic tramp of feet.

Sheriff Scannell stood before him, the Vigilantes' written communication in his hand. Casey,
looking up from the bed on which he had fallen in sudden shrinking, saw on his face an expression
that made him cower.  For the first time realization came to him of the straits he was in.
His vivid Irish imagination leaped instantaneously from the complacence of absolute safety
to the depths of terror. He sprang to his feet.

"You aren't going to betray me! You aren't going to give me up!" he cried, wringing his hands.
"I'll, not be taken from this place alive!" he shrieked, beside himself with hysteria. "Where
are all you brave fellows who were going to see me through this?"

Scannell looked at him sadly. In the pause came a sharp knocking at the door of the jail. The
sheriff turned away. A moment later Casey, listening intently, heard the door open and close,
heard the sound of talking. He fairly darted to his table, scrawled a paper, and called to
attract attention. Marshal North, answered the summons.

"Give this to them--to the Vigilantes," urged Casey, thrusting the paper into his hands. North
glanced through the note.

JAS. CASEY

But after North had gone to deliver this, Casey again sprang to his feet, again flourished
his bowie knife, again ramped up and down, again swore he would never be taken alive. A deputy
passed the door. Casey's demeanour collapsed again.

"Tell them," he begged this man earnestly; "tell them if two respectable citizens will promise
me gentlemanly treatment, I'll go peaceably! I will not be dragged through the streets like
a dog! If they will give me a fair trial and allow me to summon my witnesses, I'll yield!"

And the deputy left him pacing up and down, waving his knife, muttering wildly to, himself.
"For the rest we hold you strictly accountable."

Scannell bowed without reply. North and the deputy came in succession to deliver Casey's messages,
and to report his apparent determination. The committee offered no comment. They penetrated
to the ulterior of the jail. Many men, apparently unarmed, idling about as though merely spectators,
looked at them curiously as they passed. Coleman walked directly to the door, where he stopped,
looking Casey coldly in the eye. The seconds, passed. Neither man stirred. At the end of a
full minute Coleman said sharply:

"Lay down that knife!"

As though his incisive tones had broken the spell, Casey moved. He looked wildly to right and
to left; then flung the knife from him and buried his face in his hands.

"Your requests are granted," said Coleman shortly; then to Marshal North: "Open the door and
bring him out."

LXI

On the veranda of the unoccupied house above the jail Nan Keith stood rigid, her hand upon
her heart. During the period of the committee's absence inside the jail she did not alter her
position by a hair's breadth. She was in the hypnosis of a portentous waiting. Time fell into
the abyss of eternity: whether it were ten minutes or ten hours did not matter in the least.

For this was to Nan in the nature of a revelation so sudden and so complete that it filled
her whole soul. Had she known what Mrs. Sherwood was taking her to see, she would have pre-visualized
a drunken, disorderly, howling, bloodthirsty mob; a huge composite of brawling antagonisms,
of blind fury, of vulgar irrationalisms. Here were men filled with purpose; This was what caught
at her breath--the grim silent purpose of it! The orderly progression of events, moving with
the certainty of a fate, was like the steady crescendo of solemn music. And this crescendo
rose in her as a tide of emotion that overflowed and drowned her. The right and wrong--as she
had examined them intellectually or through, the darkened glasses of her caste prejudices--were
quite lost. This was merely something primitive, wonderful, beautiful. The spectacle was at
the moment of suspense, yet she felt so impatience--the wheel must turn in its own majestic
circle--but only an intense expectation. And in this she felt, subconsciously, that she was
one with the multitude.

The jail door swung open. The committee came out. In the middle of their compact group walked
a stranger.

"Casey!" breathed a vast voice from the crowd.

An indescribable burst of grateful relief fluttered across the upturned faces as a breeze across
water. It was almost timid at first, but gathered strength as it spread. It rolled up the hillside.
A great, deep breath seemed to fill the lungs of the throng. The murmur swelled suddenly, was
on the point of bursting into the frantic cheering of twenty thousand men.

But Coleman, his hat removed, raised his hand. In obedience to the simple gesture the cheer
was stifled. In an instant all was still. The little group entered the carriages, which immediately
wheeled and drove away.

Nan, standing bolt upright, her attitude still unchanged, caught her breath at the inhibition
of the cheer. She did not even try to wink away the tears that rolled down her cheeks. Through
them she saw the troops wheel with the precision of veterans, and march away after the carriages.
The crowd melted slowly. Soon were left only the inscrutable jail, the gun still pointed at
its door, the rigid ranks of Olney's Sixty, who had evidently been left on guard, and a few
stragglers.

Suddenly she turned and walked away. Mrs. Sherwood followed her as rapidly as she could, but
did not succeed in catching up with her. At the corner below the Keiths' house she stopped,
watched until Nan had gained her own dooryard, then turned toward home, a smile sketching her
lips, a light in her eyes.

Nan flung open her door and went directly to the parlour. She stood in the doorway contemplating
the scene. It was very cozy. The afternoon sun slanted through the high-narrow windows of the
period, gilding the dust motes floating lazily to and fro. The tea table, set with a snowy
doth, glittered invitingly, its silver and porcelain, its plates of dainty sandwiches and thin
waferlike cookies--Wing Sam's specialty--enticingly displayed. Two easy chairs had been drawn
close, and, before the unoccupied one a low footstool had been placed. Ben Sansome sat in the
other. He was, as usual, exquisitely dressed. All his little appointments were not only correct
but worn easily. The varicoloured waistcoat, the sparkling studs and cravat pins, the bright,
soft silk tie, were all subdued from their ordinary too-vivid effect by the grace with which
they were carried. Nan saw all this, and appreciated it dispassionately, appraising him anew
through clarified vision. Especially she noticed the waxed ends of his small moustache. He
had, at the sound of her entrance, lighted the tea kettle; and as she came in he smiled up
at her brightly.

"You see," he cried gayly, "I am doing your task for you! I have the lamp all lit!"

She paid no attention to this, but advanced two steps into the room.

"Which side are you on, anyway?" she asked abruptly and a little harshly.

Sansome raised his eyebrows in faint and fastidious surprise.

"Dear lady, what do you mean?"

"The only thing I can mean in these times: are you with the Law and Order, or with the Committee
of Vigilance?"

Sansome shrugged his shoulders whimsically and sank back into his chair.

"How can you ask that, dear lady?" he begged pathetically. "You would not class me with the
rabble, I hope."

But Nan did not in the slightest degree respond to the lightness of his tone. Her own was cold
and detached.

"I do not know how to class you," she said. "But I asked you a question."

Sansome arose to his feet again. His manner now became sympathetic, but into it had crept the
least hint of resentment,

"I don't understand your mood" he told her. "You are overwrought."

Nan's self-control slipped by ever so little. She did not actually stamp her foot, but her
delivery of her next speech achieved that for her.

"Will you answer me?" she demanded. "Which side, are you on?"

"I am on the side every gentleman is on," replied Sansome, a trifle stung. "The side of the law."

"Then," she cried, with a sudden intensity, "why weren't you there--on your side--defending
the jail?' Why are you here?"

Ben Sansome's knowledge of women was wide, and he therefore imagined it profound. Here he recognized
the symptoms of hysteria; cause unknown. He adopted the lightly soothing.

"I thought I was asked here!" he cried with quizzical mock pathos.

She stared at him a contemplative instant so steadily that he coloured. She was not seeing
him, however; she was seeing Keith, standing with his fellows in the open, under the walls
of the jail and its hidden guns. With a short laugh she turned away.

"You were," said she. "Help yourself to tea. As you say, I am overwrought. I am going to lie down."

Her one compelling instinct now was to get away from him before something in her brain snapped.
He became soothing.

"Won't you have a cup of tea first?" he urged. "It will do you good."

"A cup of tea!" she repeated with deadly calm. It seemed such an ending to such a day! She
tried to laugh, but strangled in her throat; and she bolted wildly from the room, leaving Ben
Sansome staring.

LXII

Nan's high exaltation of spirit, which still soared at the altitude to which the events of
the afternoon had lifted it, next expressed itself in a characteristically feminine manner:
she picked flowers in the garden, arranged them, placed them effectively, set the table herself,
lighted the lamps, touched a match to the wood fire always comfortable in San Francisco evenings,
slightly altered the position of the chairs, visited Wing Sam with fresh instructions. Gringo,
who looked on all this as for his especial benefit, took his place luxuriously before the grate.
It was a cozy, homelike scene.  Then she dressed slowly and carefully in her most becoming
gown--the only gown Keith had ever definitely singled out for individual praise--took especial
pains with her hair, and finally descended to join Gringo. The latter, as a greeting intended
to show his entire confidence, promptly rolled over to expose his vitals to her should it be
her pleasure to hurt a poor defenceless dog. He was a ridiculous sight, upside down, his tongue
lolling out, his eye rolled up at her adoringly. She laughed at him a little, then leaned swiftly
over to confide something in his ear.

But that evening Keith was late. The clock on the mantel chimed clearly the hour, then the
quarter and the half. Wing Sam came to protest aggreivedly that "him glub catchum cold--you
no wait!" Nan was severe with Wing Sam and his suggestion--so unwontedly severe that Wing Sam
returned to the kitchen muttering darkly. He had caught the atmosphere of celebration, somehow,
and on his own-initiative had frosted with wonderful white a cake not yet cut, and on the cake
had carefully traced pink legends in Chinese and English characters. The former was one of
those conventional mottoes seen on every laundry, club, and temple which would have translated
"Health, long life, and happiness"; the other Wing Sam had copied from a lithograph he much
admired. It read "Use Rising Sun Stove Polish." Glowering with resentment, Wing Sam scraped
the frosting from the cake.

At eight o'clock a small boy delivered a note at the door and scuttled back to the centre of
excitement. It was a scrawl from Keith, saying that he was detained, would not be home to dinner,
might not be in at all. Nan sat down to a cold, belated meal served by a loftily disapproving
Chinaman. She tried to think of her pride in Keith, and the work he, in company with his fellows,
was doing for the city; to recall some of her exaltation of the afternoon; but it was very
difficult. Her little preparations were so much nearer. The table, the flowers, the shaded
lamps, the fire on the hearth, her gown, the twist of her hair, all mocked her anticipations.
In spite of herself her spirits went down to zero. She could not eat, she could not even sit
at the table through the service of the various courses. Midway in the meal she threw aside
her napkin and returned abruptly to the drawing- room. The fire was snapping merrily on the
hearth. Gringo opened his eyes at her entrance, recognized his beloved mistress, and rolled
over as usual, all four legs in the air, his tender stomach confidingly exposed, for Who could
be so brutal as to hurt a poor, defenceless dog? Nan kicked him pettishly in the ribs. Gringo
stopped panting, and drew in his tongue, but otherwise did not shift his posture. This was,
of course, a mistake. Nan kicked him again. Gringo rose deliberately and retired with dignity
to the coldest, darkest, most cheerless corner he could find, where he sat and looked dejected.

"You look such a silly fool!" Nan told him relentlessly.

Thus passed the moment of exaltation and expansion. If Keith had come home to dine, it is probable
that the barrier between them--of which he was only dimly conscious--would have been broken.
But by midnight Nan had, as she imagined, "thought out" the situation. She was able to see
him now through eyes purged of self-pity or self-thought. She came to full realization, which
she formulated to herself, that she was not now the central point of his interest--that she
was "no longer" the central point, as she expressed it. She was right also in her conclusion
that all day long he hardly gave her more than a perfunctory thought. So far, her facts were
absolutely correct. But Nan was, in spite of her natural good mind and married experience,
too ignorant of man psychology to draw the true conclusion. Indeed, very few women ever realize
man's possibilities of single-minded purpose and concentration to the temporary exclusion of
other things. Keith's whole being was carried by this moral movement in which he was involved.
He simply took Nan for granted; and that is something a woman never gets used to, and always
misinterprets.

"He no longer loves me!" she said to herself, in this hour of plain thinking. She faced it
squarely; and her heart sank to the depths; for she still loved him, and the sight of him that
afternoon amid the guns had told her how much.

But her next thought was not of herself, but of him, and the situation in which, he was working
out his destiny. "How can I best help?" she asked herself, which showed that the spirit aroused
in her that afternoon had not in reality died. And her intellect relentlessly pointed out to
her that her only aid would come from her self-effacement, her standing one side. When the
great work was done, then, perhaps--

So affairs in the Keith household went on exactly as before. Nobody but Gringo knew that anything
had happened; and he only realized that the universe had suffered an upheaval, so that now
mistresses might kick their poor defenceless dogs in the stomach.

LXIII

Casey was safely in custody. Cora also had been taken on a second trip to the jail. They had
been escorted into the headquarters, the doors of which had closed behind them and behind the
armed men who guarded them. The streets were filled with an orderly crowd. They waited with
that same absence of excitement, impatience, or tumult so characteristic of all the popular
gatherings of that earnest time, save when the upholders of the law were gathered. After a
long interval one of the committeemen, Dows by name, appeared at an upper window. He did not
have to appeal for attention, and had barely to raise his voice.

"It is not the intention of the committee to be hasty," he announced. "Nothing more will be
done to-day."

Silence greeted this statement. At last some one spoke up:

"Where are Casey and Cora?" he asked.

"The committee holds possession of the jail; all are safe," replied Dows. About midnight a
dense fog descended on the city. The streets were deserted. But on the roofs of the jail and
the adjacent buildings indistinct figures stalked to and fro in the misty moonlight.

All next day, which was Monday, headquarters remained inscrutable. Small activities went forward.
Guards and patrols were changed. The cannon was brought from before the jail. Early in the
day a huge crowd gathered, packing the adjacent streets, watching patiently far into the night
to see what would happen. Nothing happened.

But about the city at large patrols of armed men moved on mysterious business. Gun shops were
picketed, and their owners forbidden to sell weapons. Evidently the committee was carrying
out a considered plan.

Toward evening the weather thickened and a rain came on. It turned colder. Still the crowd
did not disperse. It stood in its sodden shoes, hugging its sodden cloaks to its shoulders,
humped over, waiting. About eight o'clock several companies in rigid marching formation appeared.
A stir of interest, shivered through the crowd, but died as it became evident that this was
only a general relief for those on duty during the day. At midnight, or thereabouts, the crowd
went home; but again by first daylight the streets for blocks were jammed full. Still it rained
with a sullen, persistence. Still nothing happened.

And all over the city business was practically at a stand. Knots of men stood conferring on
every corner. Conversation in mixed company was very wary indeed. No man dared express himself
too openly. The courts were empty. Some actually closed, on one excuse or another, but most
went through a form of business. Some judges took the occasion to go to White Sulphur Springs
on vacations, long contemplated, they said. These things occasioned lively comment. It was
generally known that the Sacramento steamer of the evening before had carried several hundred
passengers, all with pressing business at the capitol, or somewhere else. As our chronicler
tells it: "A good many who had things on their minds left for the country." Still it rained;
still the crowd waited; still the headquarters of the Committee of Vigilance remained closed
and inscrutable. The room in which they sat was a large one, lighted by windows on one side
only. Coleman sat behind a raised desk at one end. Below it stood a small table accommodating
two. On either side six small tables completed three sides of a hollow square. No ornament,
no especial comforts--the desk, the thirteen pine tables, the twenty-eight pine chairs, the
wooden walls, the oil lamps, the four long windows--that was all.

The prisoners, who, when they had seen the thousands before the jail, had expected nothing
less than instant execution by lynch law, began to take heart. After a man has faced what he
thinks is the prospect of immediate and unavoidable death, such treatment as this arouses real
hope. The prisoners were strictly guarded and closely confined, it is true, but they understood
they were to have a fair trial "according to law." That last phrase cheered them immensely.
They knew the law. Nor were they entirely cut off from the outside. Casey was allowed to see
several men in regard to certain pressing business matters, and was permitted to talk to them
freely, although always in the presence of a member of the committee. Cora received visits
from Belle. She had spent thousands in his legal defence; now she came to see him faithfully,
and tried to cheer him, but was plainly cowed. Her self-control had vanished. She clung to
him passionately, weeping. He was forced to what should have been her role; and in cheering
her he managed to gain a modicum of self-confidence for himself. She left him at midnight,
much reassured.

But on Monday morning Cora's cell door was thrown open, and he was motioned forth by a grave
man, who conducted him through echoing gloomy corridors to the committee room, where he was
left facing the tables and the men who sat behind them. Cora's natural buoyancy vanished. The
men before him met his gaze with rigid, unbending solemnity. The rain beat mournfully against
the windows, blurring the glass, casting the high apartment in a half gloom. Nobody moved or
spoke. All looked at him. The echo of his footsteps died, and the room was cast in stillness
except for the soft dashing of the storm.

"Charles Cora," at last pronounced Coleman in measured tones, "you are here on trial for your
life, accused with the murder of United States Marshal Richardson."

Cora, who was a plucky man, had recovered his wits. He must have realized that he was in a
tight place, but he kept his head admirably. His demeanour took on alertness, his manner throughout
was respectful, and his voice low.

"Do I get no counsel?" he inquired.

"Counsel will be given you."

He put in an earnest plea for counsel outside the tribunal--impartial counsel.

"Our members are impartial," Coleman told him.

Cora hesitated; locking about him.

"If Mr. Truett will act for me," he suggested; "and I beg you earnestly, gentlemen, that the
excitement of the time may not be prejudicial to my interests, that I may have a chance for
my life!"

"Your trial will be fair," he was assured.

"I shall undertake the defence," Truett agreed briefly; "and petition that Mr. Smiley be appointed
as my assistant."

This being granted, the three men drew one side for a consultation. In a short time Truett
handed to the sergeant-at-arms--the same man who had conducted Cora to the tribunal--a list
of the witnesses Cora wished to summon. These were at once sought by a subcommittee outside.
In the meantime, witnesses for the prosecution were one by one admitted, sworn, and examined.
It was the historic Cora trial over again, with one difference--gone were the technical delays.
By dusk Keith, who had been called at three, had all but completed the long tale of his testimony,
had finished recounting, not only what he had seen of the quarrel and the subsequent shooting,
but also a detailed account of the trial, the adverse influences brought to bear on the prosecution,
and his investigations into the question of "undue influence." No attempt was made to confine
the investigation to the technical trial.

Keith was the last witness for the prosecution. And the witnesses for the defence, where were
they? Of the list submitted by Cora not one could be found! In hiding, afraid, the perjurers
would not appear!

The dusk was falling in earnest now. The corners of the room were in darkness. Beneath Coleman's
desk Bluxome, the secretary, had lighted an oil lamp the better to see his notes. In the interest
of Keith's testimony the general illumination had not been ordered. Outside the tiny patch
of yellow light the men of Vigilance sat motionless, listening, their shadows dim and huge
against the wall.

LXV

Thursday noon was set for the funeral of the man who had given his life that a city might live.
In the room where he had made his brave fight against death he now lay in state. On Wednesday
ten thousand people visited him there. Early Thursday morning his remains were transferred
to the Unitarian Church where, early as it was, a great multitude had gathered to do him honour.
Now through the long morning hours it sat with him silently. The church was soon filled to
over-flowing; the streets in all directions became crowded with sober-faced men and women.
They knew they would be unable to get into the church, to attend nearer his last communion
with his fellowmen, but they stayed, feeling vaguely that their mere presence helped--as, indeed,
perhaps it did. Marching bodies from every guild or society in the city stood in rank after
rank, extending down the street as far as the eye could reach. Hundreds of horsemen, carriages,
foot marchers, quietly, orderly, were already getting into line. They, too, were excluded from
the funeral ceremonies by lack of room; they, too, waited to do honour to the cortege. This
procession was over two miles in length. Each man wore a band of crepe around his left arm.
The time set for the funeral ceremony was yet hours distant.

It seemed that all the city must be there. Three thousand of them were there. Hour after hour
they stood, untiring, staring at the building, which gave no sign; just as the other multitude,
only a few squares away, stood hour after hour, patiently waiting in the bright sun. A dead
wait ensued. Across the silence could be heard faintly from the open windows of the distant
church the chords of an organ, the rise and fall of a hymn, then the measured cadence of oration.
The funeral services had begun. The attendant adjusted the noose, then left him. An instant
later Casey appeared. He had petitioned not to be blindfolded, so his face was bare. Cora stood
bolt upright, motionless as a stone. Casey's nerve had left him; his face was pale and his
eyes bloodshot. As the attendant placed the noose, the murderer's eyes darted here and there
over the square. Did he still expect that the boastful promises of his friends would be fulfilled,
did he still hope for rescue? If so, that hope must have died as he looked down on those set,
grim faces staring straight ahead, on that sinister ring of steel. To-morrow let no editor
dare call me a murderer!

Not one word of contrition; not one word for the man who lay yonder in the church; not one
syllable for the heartbroken wife kneeling at the coffin! He ceased. And his words went out
into the void and found no echo against that wall of steel.

They waited. For what? Across the intervening housetops the sound of speaking ceased to carry.
The last orator had given place. At the door of the sanctuary was visible a slight, commotion:
the coffin was being carried out. It was placed in the hearse. Every head was bared.

At the first stroke the long cortege moved forward toward Lone Mountain; at the first stroke
the Vigilantes, as one man, presented arms; at the first stroke the platforms dropped and Casey
and Cora fell into the abyss of eternity.

LXVI

This execution occasioned a great storm of indignation among the adherents of law and order.
Serious-minded men, like Judge Shattuck, admitted the essential justice rendered, but condemned
strongly the method.

"Of course they were murderers," cried the judge, "and of course they should have been hung,
and of course the city is better off without either of them. I'm not afraid of their friends,
and I don't care who knows what I think! And some very worthy citizens, wrongly, are involved
in this, some citizens whom otherwise I greatly respect. It is better that a hundred criminals
should escape than that the whole law of California should be outraged by an act that denies
at once the value and the authority of our government. The energy, the talent for organization,
that this committee has displayed in the exercise of usurped authority, might have been directed
in aid of the courts, consistently with the constitution and the laws, with, equal if not greater
efficiency."

But very few were able to see it in this calm spirit. The ruling class, the "chivalry," the
best element of the city had been slapped in the face. And by whom? By a lot of "Yankee shopkeepers,"
assisted by renegades like Keith, Talbot Ward, and others. The committee was a lot of stranglers;
they ought to be punished as murderers; they ought to be shot down, egad, as revolutionaries!
It was realized that street shooting had temporarily become unsafe; otherwise, there is no
doubt that the hotheads would have gone forth deliberately abrawling. There were many threats
made against individuals, many condign--and lawless--punishments promised them.

As an undercurrent, nowhere expressed or even acknowledged, was a strong feeling of relief.
Any Law and Order would have fought at the mere suggestion; but every one of them felt it.
And, of course, when it did disband, then the law would have its innings. Its forces would
be better organized and consolidated, its power assured. It could then apprehend and bring
to justice the ringleaders of this unwarranted undertaking. Like dogs at the heels of a retreating
foe, the hotheads became bolder as this secret conviction gained strength. They were in favour
of using an armed force to take Coleman and his fellow-conspirators into the custody of the
law. Calmer spirits held this scheme in check.

"Let them have rope," advised Blatchford. "I know mobs. Now that they've hung somebody, their
spirit will die down. Give them a few days."

But to the surprise, and indignation of these people, the Vigilantes showed no of an intention
to disband. On the contrary, their activities extended and their organization tightened. The
various companies drilled daily until they went through evolutions and the manual of arms with
all the perfection of regular troops. The committee's books remained open; by the last of the
week over seven thousand men had signed the rolls. The character of these furnishings and supplies
would seem to argue an intention of permanence. Doorkeepers were always in attendance. Sentinels
patrolled the streets and the roof. The great warehouse took on an exceedingly animated appearance.

The Executive Committee was in session all of each day. It became known that a "black list"
of some sort was in preparation. On the heels of this orders came for the Vigilante police,
instructing them to arrest certain men and to warn certain others to leave town immediately.
It was evident that a clean sweep was contemplated. He had always been a pillar of strength
to those engaged in corrupt practices. This man went to pieces completely. He confessed the
details of many of his own crimes but, what was more important, implicated many others as well.
His testimony was invaluable, not necessarily as final proof against those whom he accused,
but as indications for thorough investigations. Finally, unexpectedly, he committed suicide
in his cell. Warned by this, the committee henceforward issued regular rations of whiskey to
its prisoners!

Trials in due order, with counsel for defence and ample opportunity to call witnesses, went
on briskly. Those who anticipated more hangings were disappointed. The majority of these were,
of course, low thugs, "Sydney ducks," hangers on; but a very large proportion were taken from
what had been known as the city's best. In the law courts these men would in many cases have
been declared as white as the driven snow. But they were undesirable citizens; the committee
so decided them; and bade them begone. Charles Duane, Wooley Kearney, William Carr, Edward
Bulger, Philander Brace, William McLean, J.D. Musgrave, and Peter Wightman were well-known
and influential names found on the "black list," Peter Wightman, James White, and our old friend,
Ned McGowan, ran away. Hundreds of others left the city. A terror spread among the ignorant
and vicious of the underworld. Some of the minor offenders brought in by the Vigilante police
were by the Executive Committee turned over to the regular law courts. Every one of such cases
was promptly convicted by those courts!

This did not look much like disbanding, nor did any opportunity for wholesale arrest of the
anarchists seem imminent. The leaders of the Law and Order faction were at last aroused.

"This is more than anarchy; it is revolution," said Judge Caldwell. "It is a successful revolution
because it is organized. The people of this city are scattered and powerless. Elaborate secret
preparations, involving certain distributions of armed men were made to prevent what was considered
certain interference. It was a ribald, disrespectful crowd, evidently out for a good time,
calling back and forth, shouting question or comment at the men gathered about the speaker's
platform.

"What kind of a circus do you call this show, anyway?" roared a huge, bare- armed miner in
red shirt.

"This is the Law and Murder meeting," instantly answered some one from a balcony.

This phrase tickled the crowd hugely. The words were passed from man to man. Eventually they
became the stereotyped retort. "Stranglers!" sneered one faction. "Law and Murder!" flung back
the other.

On the platform stood or sat the owners of many of the city's proud names-- judges, jurists,
merchants, holders of high political office, men whose influence a month ago had been paramount
and irresistible. Among them were famed orators, men who had never failed to hold and influence
a crowd.  But two hundred feet away little could be heard. It early became evident that, though
there would be no interference, the sentiment of the crowd was against them. And, what was
particularly maddening, the sentiment was good- humoured. Even the compliment of being taken
seriously was denied them!

Colonel Ed Baker came forward to speak. The colonel's gift of eloquence was such that, in spite
of his known principles, his lack of scruple, his insincerity, he won his way to a picturesque
popularity and fame. Later he delivered a funeral oration over the remains of David Broderick
that has gone far to invest the memory of that hard-headed, venal, unscrupulous politician
with an aura of romance. But the crowd would have little of him this day. An almost continuous
uproar drowned his efforts. "Ten thousand dollars!" "Out of that, you old reprobate!" jeered
the audience. The bystanders caught the point at once.

"There's a pretty Law and Order man!" they shrieked. "Hey, Benham! Don't you know it's against
the law to go armed?"

"I carry this weapon," shrieked Benham, passionately shaking his fist, "not as an instrument
to overthrow the law, but to uphold it!" The confusion became worse.

"Oh, yes, you do!" they informed him. "You know your masters as well as anybody--two of them
were hung the other day!"

After this the meeting broke up. The most ardent Law and Order man could not deny that as a
popular demonstration it had been a fizzle.

But if this attempt at home to gain coherence failed, up river the partisans had better luck.
A hasty messenger with tidings for the ear of the Executive Committee only was followed by
rapidly spreading rumours. Five hundred men with two pieces of artillery were coming down from
Sacramento to liberate the prisoners, especially Billy Mulligan, or die in the attempt. They
were reported to be men from the southeast: Texans, Carolinians, crackers from Pike County,
all fire-eaters, reckless, sure to make trouble. Their numbers were not in themselves formidable,
but every man knew the city still to be full of scattered warriors needing only leaders and
a rallying point. The materials for a very pretty civil war were laid for the match. An uneasiness
pervaded headquarters, not for the outcome, but for the unavoidable fighting and bloodshed.

Therefore, when Olney hastily entered the main hall early in the evening, and in a loud voice
called for "two hundred men with side arms for especial duty," there was a veritable scramble
to enlist. Olney picked out the required number, selecting, it was afterward noticed, only
the big men physically. They fell in, and were marched quickly out Market Street. It was dark.
Expectations were high. Just beyond Second Street, dimly visible against the sky or in the
faint starlight, they saw a mysterious force opposing them, men on foot, horses, the wheels
of guns. Each man gripped his revolver and set his teeth. Here, evidently, from this ordinarily
deserted and distant part of town, a flanking attack was to have been delivered. As they drew
nearer they made out wagons; and nearer still-bale upon bale of gunny sacks, and shovels!

The truth dawned on them, and a great laugh went up. "Sold! Sold! Sold!" they cried.

But they set to work with a will, filled the gunny sacks with sand, piled them on the wagons;
and so by morning Fort Gunnybags, as headquarters was thenceforth called, came into existence.
Cannon were mounted, breastworks piled, embrasures planned.

The five hundred fire-eaters were no myth. They disembarked, greeted the horde of friends who
had come to meet them, marched to Fort Gunnybags, looked it over, thrust their hands in their
pockets, and walked peacefully away to the nearest barrooms!

Wise men. By now the Vigilante dispositions were so complete that in the mere interest of examining
so sudden yet so thorough an organization, a paragraph or so may profitably be spent on it.
Other cannon were mounted for the defence of Fort Gunnybags. Muskets, rifles, and sabres enough
to arm 6,000 men had been accumulated--and there were 6,000 men to use them! "As a rule," says
Bancroft, "within fifteen minutes from the time the bell was tapped, on any occasion, seven-tenths
of the entire Vigilante forces would be in their places armed ready for battle."

Another corps, not as heroic, but quite as necessary, it was found advisable to appoint. The
sacking of which Fort Gunnybags was made was of very coarse texture. When dry, the sand filling
tended to run out! Therefore, those bags had to be kept constantly wet, and somebody had to
do it. Enemies sneeringly remarked that Fort Gunnybags consumed much more water without than
within; but this joke lost its point when it became known that the committee, decades in advance
of its period, had prohibited alcohol absolutely!

Realizing from the two lamentable fiascos just recounted that little could be accomplished
by private initiative, the upholders of the law turned their attention to Sacramento. Here
they had every reason to hope for success. No matter how well organized the Vigilantes might
be, or how thoroughly they carried the sympathies of the local public, there could be no doubt
that they were acting in defiance of the law, were, in fact, no better than rebels. It was
not only within the power, it was the duty of the governor of the State to declare the city
in a condition of insurrection.

This being accomplished, it followed logically that the State troops must put down the insurrection;
and if they failed, there was still the immense power of the republic to call upon. After all,
when you look at it that way, this handful of disturbers amounted to very little.

The first step was to win over the governor. Without him the next step could not be taken.
Accordingly all the big guns of San Francisco took the Senator for Sacramento. There they met
Terry, Volney Howard, and others of the same ilk. No governor of Johnson's sort could long
withstand such pressure. He promised to issue the proclamation of insurrection as soon as it
was "legally proved" that the committee had acted outside the law. The mere fact that it had
already hanged two men and deported a great number of others meant nothing. That, apparently,
was not legal proof.

"But they'll deny the writ," said Terry, "and that will constitute a legal defiance of the
State. The governor will then be legally justified in issuing his proclamation, and ordering
out the State troops to enforce the writ."

If the State troops proved inadequate, the plan was then to call on the United States--as locally
represented by General Wool and Captain David Farragut--for assistance. With this armed backing
three times the Vigilante force could be quickly subdued.

"Tell him to go to hell!" growled someone.

But a half-dozen members saw through the ruse, and interposed vigorous objections.

"I move," said Dempster solemnly, "that our police be permitted to remove all prisoners for
a few hours."

This was carried, and put into immediate effect. Deputy Harrison was then politely received,
his writ fully acknowledged, and he was allowed to search the premises. Of course he found
nothing, and departed much crestfallen. The scheme had failed. The committee had in no way
denied his authority or his writ. Harrison was no fool. He saw clearly what he had been expected
to do. On his way back to Sacramento he did some thinking.

Johnson immediately issued his proclamation. The leaders turned with confidence to the Federal
authorities for assistance. The sympathies of this doughty old soldier were not with this attempt.

So saying he bowed them from the room. Farragut equally could not clearly see why he should
train the guns of his ship on the city. With this fiasco the opposition for the moment died.
The Executive Committee went on patiently working down through its black list. It announced
that after June 24th no new cases would be taken, A few days later it proclaimed an "adjournment
parade" on July 5th. It considered its work done. The city had become safe.

LXVII

But this peaceful outcome did not suit the aristocratic wing of the Law and Order party in
the least. The haughty, supremely individualistic, bold, forceful, often charming coterie of
fire-eaters had, in their opinion, been insulted, and they wanted reprisal, punishment, blood.
Terry, Baker, Bennett, Miles, Webb, Nugent, Blatchford, Rowlee, Caldwell, Broderick, Ware,
Volney Howard, Black--to mention only a few--chafed intolerably. Such men were accustomed to
have their own way, to cherish an ultra-sensitive "honour," to be looked up to; had come to
consider themselves as especially privileged, to look upon themselves as direct representatives
of the only proper government and administration of law. This revolt of the "lower classes,"
the "smug, psalm-singing Yankees," the "shopkeepers," was intolerable impudence. Because of
a series of accidents, proper resentment of such impudence, due punishment of such denial of
the law had been postponed. It was not, therefore, abrogated.

When, therefore, the committee announced July 5th as a definite date for disbanding, the lawful
authorities and their upholders, blinded by their passions, were distinctly disappointed. Where
the common citizen perceived only the welcome end of a necessary job well done, they saw slipping
away the last chance for a clash of arms that should teach these rebels their place. It was
all very well to talk of arresting the ringleaders and bringing them to justice. In the present
lamentable demoralization of the courts it might not work; and even if it did work, the punishment
of ringleaders was small satisfaction as compared to triumphant vindication in pitched battle.

Sherman had resigned command of the military in disgust when he found that General Wool and
Captain Farragut had no intention of supplying him Federal arms, thus closing--save for later
inaccurate writing in his "Memoirs"--an unfortunate phase of his career. In his stead had been
chosen General Volney Howard. Howard was a rather fat, very pompous, wholly conceited bombastes
furioso with apparently remarkable lack of judgment or grasp of a situation. In the committee's
action looking toward adjournment he actually thought he saw a sign of weakening!

"Now is the moment for us to show our power!" he said.

In this he gained the zealous support of Judge Terry and Major Marmaduke Miles, two others
with more zeal than discretion. This hope they shared with Howard, after the governor's order
had been obtained. Howard's vanity and inclinations jumped together. He consented. Altogether,
it was a very pretty little plot.

By now the Law and Order forces had become numerically formidable. The bobtail and rag-tag,
ejected either by force or by fright, flocked to the colours. A certain proportion of the militia
remained in the ranks, though a majority had resigned. A large contingent of reckless, wild
young men, without a care or a tie in the world, with no interest in the rights of the case,
or, indeed, in themselves, avid only for adventure, offered themselves as soon as the prospects
for a real fight became good. And there were always the five hundred discomfited Texans.

Nor were arms now lacking. Contrary to all expectation, the committee had scrupulously refrained
from meddling with the State armouries. All militia muskets were available. In addition the
State had now the right to a certain quota of Federal arms, stored in the arsenal at Benicia.
These could be requisitioned.

At this point in the planning weasly little Jimmy Ware had a bright idea.

"Look here!" he cried, "how many of those Benicia muskets are there?"

"About a hundred and fifty stand, sir," Howard told him.

"Now they can't help us a whole lot," propounded Ware. "They are too few. But why can't we
use them for bait, to get those people on the wrong side of the fence?"

"What do you mean?" asked Terry, who knew Ware intimately.

"Suppose they are shipped from Benicia to the armouries in the city; they are legally Federal
property until they are delivered, aren't they?"

"Certainly."

"Well, if the Stranglers should happen to seize them while they're still Federal property,
they've committed a definite offence against the United States, haven't they?"

"What do we care about that now?" asked Major Marmaduke Miles, to whom this seemed irrelevant.

But Judge Terry's legal mind was struck with the beauty and simplicity of this ruse.

"Hold on!" he cried. "If we ship them in a boat, the seizure will be piracy. If they intercept
those arms, they're pirates, and we can legally call on the Federal forces--and they'll be
compelled to respond, egad!"

"They're pretty smart; suppose they smell a rat?" asked Miles doubtfully.

"Then we'll have the muskets where we want them, anyway. It's worth trying," replied Ware.

"I know just the man," put in Terry. "I'll send for him."

Shortly appeared a saturnine, lank, bibulous individual known as Rube Maloney. To him Terry
explained. He was to charter a sloop, take the muskets aboard--and get caught.

"No resistance, mind you!" warned Terry.

"Trust me for that," grinned Rube. "I ain't anxious for no punctured skin, nor yit a stretched
neck."

"Pick your men carefully."

"I'll take Jack Phillips and Jim McNab," said Rube, after a moment's thought, "and possibly
a few refreshments?" he suggested.

Terry reached into his pocket.

"Certainly, certainly," said he. "Treat yourself well."

There remained only to see that the accurate details should get to the Committee of Vigilance,
but in such a manner as to avoid suspicion that the information had been "planted."

"Is there anybody we can trust on their rolls?" asked Terry.

But it was reluctantly conceded that the Vigilantes had pretty well cleaned out the doubtful
ones. Here again, the resourceful Jimmy Ware came to the rescue.

"I know your man--Morrell. He'll get it to them. As far as anybody knows, he hasn't taken sides
at all."

"Will you see him?" asked Terry.

"I'll see him," promised Jimmy Ware.

LXVIII

By this time the Vigilante organization had pretty well succeeded in eliminating the few Law
and Order sympathizers who had been bold enough to attempt to play the part of spy by signing
the rolls. These had not been many, and their warning had been sufficient. But Morrell had,
in a measure, escaped distrust even if he had not gained confidence. He had had the sense not
to join the organization; and his attitude of the slightly supercilious, veiledly contemptuous
Britisher, scorning all things about him, was sufficient guarantee of his neutrality. This
breed was then very common. He left his conference with Jimmy Ware thoroughly instructed, quite
acquiescent, but revolving matters in his own mind to see if somehow he could not turn them
to his advantage. For Morrell was, as always, in need of money. In addition, he had a personal
score to settle with Keith for, although he had apparently forgotten their last interview regarding
"loans," the memory rankled. And Morrell had not forgotten that before all this Vigilante business
broke he had been made a good offer by Cora's counsel to get Keith out of the way. Cora was
now very dead, to be sure; but on sounding Jimmy Ware, Morrell learned that Keith's removal
would still be pleasant to the powers that pay.

If he could work these things all in together--Cogitating absorbedly, he glanced up to see
Ben Sansome sauntering down the street, his malacca cane at the proper angle, his cylindrical
hat resting lightly on his sleek locks, his whole person spick with the indescribably complete
appointment of the dandy. Sansome was mixed up with the Keiths--perhaps he could be used--On
impulse Morrell hailed him genially, and invited him to take a drink. The exquisite brightened,
and perceptibly hastened his step. Morrell's rather ultra-Anglicism always fascinated him.
They turned in at the El Dorado, and there seated themselves at the most remote of the small
tables.

"Well," said Morrell cheerfully, after preliminary small talk had been disposed of, "how goes
the fair Nancy?"

Sansome's effeminately handsome face darkened. Things had in reality gone very badly with the
fair Nancy. Her revulsion against Sansome at the time of the capture of the jail had been complete;
and as is the case with real revulsions, she had not attempted to conceal it. Sansome's careful
structure, which had gained so lofty an elevation, had collapsed like the proverbial house
of cards. His vanity had been cruelly rasped. And what had been more or less merely a dilettante's
attraction had been thereby changed into a thwarted passion.

"Damn the fair Nancy!" he cried, in answer to Morrell's question.

Morrell's eyes narrowed, and he motioned quietly to the waiting black to replenish the glasses.

"With all my heart, damn her!" said he. "I agree with you; she's a snippy, cold little piece.
Not my style at all. Not worth the serious attention of a man like yourself. Who is it now,
you sly dog?"

Sansome sipped at his drink; sighed sentimentally.

"Cold--yes--but if the right man could awaken her--" he murmured.

"Look here, Sansome, do you want that woman?"

Sansome looked at his companion haughtily; his eye fell; he drew circles with the bottom of
his glass.

"By gad!" he cried with a sudden queer burst of fire; "I've got to have her!"

And then he turned slowly red, actually started to wriggle, concealed his embarrassment under
cover of his cigar.

"H'm," observed Morrell speculatively, without looking across at Sansome. "Tell me, Ben, does
she still care for her husband?"

"No; that I'll swear!" replied Sansome eagerly.

"If you're sure of that one essential little fact, and you really want her, why don't you take
her?"

"Damn it, ain't I telling you? She won't see me."

"Tell me about it," urged Morrell, settling back, and again motioning for fresh drinks.

Sansome, whose soul was ripe for sympathy, needed little more urging. He poured out his tale,
sometimes rushingly and passionately, again, as his submerged but still conventional self-consciousness
straggled to the surface, with shamefaced bravado. "By Gad!" he finished. "You know, I feel
like a raw schoolboy, talkin' like this!"

Morrell leaned forward, his reserve of manner laid aside, his whole being radiating sympathetic
charm.

"My dear chap, don't," he begged, laying his hand on Sansome's forearm. "A genuine passion
is the most glorious thing on earth even in callow youth! But when we old men of the world--"
The pause was eloquent. "She's a headstrong filly," he went on in a more matter-of-fact tone,
after a moment, "takes a bit of handling. You'll pardon me, old chap, if I suggest that you've
gone about things a bit wrong."

"How is that?" asked Sansome. Under the influence of drinks, confession, and sympathy, he was
in a glow of fellow-feeling.

"Believe me, I know women and horses! You've ridden this one too much on the snaffle. Try the
curb. That high-spirited sort takes a bit of handling. They like to feel themselves dominated.
You've been too gentle, too refined. She's gentle and refined for two. What she wants is the
brute-- 'Rape of the Sabines' principle. Savage her a bit, and she'll come to heel like a dog.
Not at once, perhaps. Give her a week."

"That's all very well," objected Sansome, whose eyes were shining, "but how about that week?
She'll run to that beast of a husband with her story--"

"And be sorry for it afterward--"

"Too late."

Morrell appeared to think.

"There's something in that. But suppose we arranged to get the husband out of the way, where
she couldn't run to him at once--" he suggested.

They had more drinks. At first Morrell was only sardonically amused; but as his imagination
got to working and the creative power awoke, his interest became more genuine. It was all too
wildly improbable for words--and yet, was anything improbable in this impossible place? At
least it was amusing, the whole thing was amusing--this super-refined exquisite awakened, to
an emotion so genuine that what judgment he had was now obscured by the eagerness of his passion;
the situation apparently so easily malleable; the beautiful safety of it all for himself. And
it did not really matter if the whole fantastic plot failed!

"I tell you, no," he broke his thoughts to reply to some ill-considered suggestion, "The good
old simple methods are the best--they're all laid out for us by the Drury Lane melodramas.
You leave it to me to get rid of him. Then we'll send the usual message to her that he is lying
wounded somewhere--say at Jake's road house--"

"Won't that get her to thinking too much of him?" interrupted Sansome anxiously.

Morrell, momentarily taken aback, gained time for a reply by pouring Sansome another drink,
"He's more sense left than I thought," he said to himself; and aloud: "All you want is to get
her out to Jake's. She'll go simply as a matter of wifely duty, and all that. Don't worry.
Once she's there, it's your affair; and unless I mistake my man, I believe you'll know how
to manage the situation"--he winked slyly--"she's really mad about you, but, like most women,
she's hemmed in by convention. Boldly break through the convention, and she'll come around."

Sansome was plainly fascinated by the idea, but in a trepidation of doubt, nevertheless.

"But suppose she doesn't come around?" he objected vaguely.

Morrell threw aside his cigarette and arose with an air of decision.

"I thought you were so crazy mad about her?" he said in tones that cut. "What are you wasting
my time for?"

"No, no! Hold on!" cried Sansome, at once all fire again. "I'll do it--hold on!"

"As a matter of fact," observed Morrell, reseating himself, and speaking as though there had
been no interruption, "I imagine you have little to fear from that."

He went into the street a little later, his vision somewhat blurred, but his mind clear. Sansome,
by now very pot-valiant, swaggered alongside.

"By the way, Ben," said Morrell suddenly, "I hope you go armed--these are bad times."

"I have always carried a derringer--and I can use it, too!" boasted Sansome, swinging his cane.

Morrell, left alone, stood on the corner for some time diligently engaged in getting control
of himself. He laughed a little.

"Regular bally melodrama, conspiracy and all, right off the blood-and- thunder stage," said
he. "Wonder if it works in real life? We'll see."

After his head had cleared, he set to work methodically to find Keith, but when he finally
met that individual it was most casually. Morrell was apparently in a hurry, but as he saw
Keith he appeared to hesitate, then, making up his mind, he approached the young lawyer.

"Look here, Keith, a word with you," he said. "I have stumbled on some information which may
be important. I was on my way to the committee with it, but I'm in a hurry. The governor is
shipping arms into the city to- morrow night from Benicia, by a small sloop."

"Are you sure of this?" asked Keith.

"Certain."

"Where did you get the information?"

"That I cannot tell you."

Keith still hesitated; Morrell turned on his heel.

"Well, I've told you. You can do as you please, but you'd better let the committee decide whether
to take the tip or not." He walked away without once looking back, certain that Keith would
end by reporting the information,

"Chances are he'll go with the capturing party," ran the trend of his thoughts, "and so he'll
be out of reach of this little abduction. But I don't care much. If he follows them out to
Jake's by any chance, Sansome will shoot him--or he'll shoot Sansome. Doesn't matter which.
Shootin's none too healthy these days for either side! Oh, Lord, most amusin'!"

He thought a while, then turned up the hill toward his own house. A new refinement of the plot
had occurred to the artist's soul too much drink had released in him.

Mrs. Morrell was vastly surprised to see him. She was clad in a formless pink silk wrapper,
was reclining on a sofa, and was settling down to relaxation of mind and body by means of French
novels and cigarettes,

"Well, what are you doing here at this time of day?" was her greeting.

"Came to bask in the light of your smiles, my dear," he replied with elephantine irony.

"Nonsense!" she rejoined sharply, "You've been drinking again!"

"To be sure; but not enough to hurt." His manner suddenly became businesslike, "Look here,"
he asked her, "are you game to make a tidy bit of money?"

"Always!" she replied promptly, also becoming businesslike.

He explained in detail. She listened in silence at first with a slight smile of contempt on
her lips. As he progressed, however, the smile faded.

"Where do I come in?" she asked finally.

"You must be there when the message comes to her. She might not go out to Jake's alone--probably
wouldn't. I don't know her well enough to judge. Hurry her into it."

"I see." She laughed suddenly. "Lord, she'll be surprised when I call on her! Take some doing,
that!" She thought a few moments. "My appearance will connect us with it. Won't do."

"If the thing goes through we won't be here," he pointed out. "If it doesn't go through all
right, we'll arrange a little comedy. Have you bound and gagged--before her eyes--or something
like that."

"Thanks," she replied to this.

Morrell was not entirely open. He did not tell her that money or no money, plot or no plot,
he had resolved to flee the city, at least for a time. Investigations were getting too close
to some of his past activities. He did not offer in words what he nevertheless knew to be the
most potent of his arguments--namely, the implacable hate Mrs. Morrell bore Keith. Morrell's
knowledge of this hate was accurate, though his analysis of its cause was faulty. He thought
his wife to be Keith's discarded mistress, and did not greatly care. Nor did he mention the
possibility which, however, Mrs. Morrell now voiced.

"Suppose Keith follows them out to Jake's?" she suggested.

"One of them will kill, and the Stranglers will hang the other," he said briefly.

She looked up.

"I don't care for that!"

"In that event, you will not be present. Your job will be to duck out." He paused, then went
on slowly: "Would you grieve at the demise of either--or all three?"

Her face hardened.

"But," he went on slowly, "the chances of it are very remote. If there is any killing, it will
come later. Keith will be kept out of the way."

"And after?"

"You hint of an assignation. I will arrange for witnesses."

"Where does the money come in?" she demanded. Morrell floundered for a moment. He had lost
sight of the money.

"It comes from certain parties who want Keith put out of the way," he said.

"And suppose Keith is not put out of the way?" she began, her facile mind pouncing on the weakness
of this statement. "Never mind," she interrupted herself. "I'll do it!" Her face had hardened
again, "Can you depend on Sansome to go through with it?"

"Only if he's fairly drunk."

"Yes?"

"I'll attend to that. That is my job. You may not see me to-morrow; but go in the evening to
call on her."

"It looks absolutely preposterous," she said at last, "but it may work. And, if any part of
it works, that'll be enough."

"Yes," said he.

They had both forgotten the money.

LXIX

As Morrell had surmised, Keith decided to pass on the news for what it was worth. The committee
believed it, and was filled with consternation at the incredible folly of the projected show
of armed force.

"This is not peace, but war," said Coleman, "which we are trying to avert!"

The Executive Committee went into immediate session. It was now evident that the disbanding
would have to be indefinitely postponed. An extraordinary program to meet the emergency was
discussed piecemeal. One of its details had to do with the shipment of arms from Benicia. The
committee here fell neatly into the trap prepared for it. In all probability no one clearly
realized the legal status of the muskets, but all supposed them already to belong to the State
that was threatening to use them. The latter selected twelve to assist him, among whom was
Keith, at the latter's especial request. Morrell, loitering near, saw this band depart for
the water front, and followed them far enough to watch them embark, to witness the hoisting
of the sloop's sails, and to see the craft heel to the evening breeze and slip away around
the point. All things were going well. The committee suspected nothing of the plot to fasten
the crime of piracy on it; Keith was out of the way. Morrell turned on his heel and walked
rapidly to his rendezvous with Sansome. Finally, he was able to get under way again, A number
of craft were sailing about, and one by one these were overhauled, commanded to lay to, and
boarded in true piratical style. It was fun for everybody. The breeze blew in strongly from
the Golden Gate, the waves chopped and danced merrily, the little sloop dipped her rail and
flew along at a speed that justified her reputation as a racer, gulls followed curiously. But
there were no practical results. Every sailing craft they overhauled proved innocent, and either
indignant or sarcastic. The sun dipped, and the short twilight of this latitude was almost
immediately succeeded by a brilliant night. Slowly the breeze died, until the little sloop
could just crawl along. It grew chilly, and there was no food aboard. A less persistent man
than John Durkee would have felt justified in giving it up and heading for home; but John had
been instructed to cruise until he captured the arms; and he profanely announced his intention
of so doing.

In this he was more faithful to his superiors than the notorious Rube Maloney to his employers.
It was to the interest of the Law and Order party that Rube and his precious crew should be
promptly and easily captured. They had been instructed to carry boldly and flagrantly, in full
daylight, down the middle of the bay. But Terry's permission, to lay in "refreshments" at cost
of the conspirators had been liberally interpreted. By six o'clock Rube had just sense enough
left to drop anchor off Pueblo Point. There the three jolly mariners proceeded to celebrate;
and there they would probably have lain undiscovered had less of a bulldog than Durkee been
sent after them.

As it was, midnight had passed before Durkee's keen eyes caught the loom of some object in
the black mist close under the point. Quietly he eased off the sheet and bore down on it. As
soon as he ascertained definitely that the object was indeed a boat, he ran alongside. From
the hatch came the reek of alcohol and the sound of hearty snoring. The capture was made.

In a half hour the transfer of the muskets and the three prisoners was accomplished. The latter
offered no resistance, but seemed cross at being awakened. Leaving the vessel anchored off
the point, the little sloop stood away again for San Francisco, reaching the California Street
wharf shortly after daylight. Here she was moored, and one of the crew was dispatched to the
committee for further instructions and grub. He returned after an hour, but was preceded somewhat
by the grub.

"They say to deliver the muskets at headquarters," he reported, "but to turn the prisoners loose."

"Turn them loose!" cried Durkee, astonished.

"That's what they said," repeated the messenger. "And here's written orders," and he displayed
a paper signed by the well-known "33, Secretary," and bearing the Vigilante seal of the open eye.

"All right," acquiesced Durkee. "Now, you mangy hounds, you've got just about twenty-eight
seconds to make yourselves as scarce as your virtues. Scat!"

Rube and his two companions had several of the twenty-eight seconds to spare; but once they
had lost sight of their captors, they moderated their pace. They had been much depressed, but
now they cheered up and swaggered. A few drinks restored them to normal, and they were able
to put a good face on the report they now made to their employers, all of whom, including Terry,
had gathered thus early to receive them. After all, things had gone well: they had been actually
captured, which was the essential thing, and it did not seem necessary to go into extraneous
details.

"Good!" cried Terry, who had come down from Sacramento personally to superintend the working
out of this latest ruse.

He was illegally absent from his court, meddling illegally with matters not in his jurisdiction.
"Now we must get a warrant for piracy into the hands of the United States Marshal. Send him
alone, with no deputies. When he makes his deposition of resistance, then we shall see!"

The marshal found Durkee still at the wharf, seated on an upturned cask.

"I have this warrant for your arrest!" he proclaimed in a voice purposely loud.

"Yes? Let's see it," rejoined Durkee, lazily reaching out his hand.

He read the document through leisurely. His features betrayed no hint of his thoughts, but
nevertheless his brain was very active. He read that he was accused of piracy against the might
and majesty of the United States Government; and as his eyes slowly followed the involved and
redundant legal phraseology, he reviewed the situation. The nature, of the trap became to him,
partly evident. There was no doubt that technically he was a pirate, if these arms--as it seemed--belonged
to the Government and not to the State. The punishment of piracy was death. Without appreciation
of the fact, the committee had made him liable to the death penalty. And he had no doubt that
the Federal Courts of California, as then constituted, would visit that penalty on him. He
raised his head and looked about him. Within call were lounging a dozen resolute men belonging
to the Committee of Vigilance. He had but to raise his voice to bring them to his assistance.
Once inside Fort Gunnybags he knew that the committee would stand behind him to the last man.

But John Durkee had imagination as well as bulldog persistency. His mind flashed ahead into
the future, envisaging the remoter consequences. He saw the majesty of the law's forces invoked
to back this warrant which the tremendous power of the disciplined Vigilantes would repulse;
he saw reinforcements, summoned. What reinforcements? A smile flitted across his lips, and
he glanced up at the warship John Adams riding at anchor outside, her guns, their tampons in
place, staring blackly at the city. He saw the whole plot.

"That's all right," he told the waiting marshal, folding the warrant and returning it to him.
"Put your paper in your pocket. I'll go with you."

By this quietly courageous and intelligent deed John Durkee completely frustrated the fourth
and most dangerous effort of the Law and Order party. There was no legal excuse for calling
on Federal forces to take one man-- who peaceably surrendered!

Undoubtedly, had not matters taken the decided and critical turn soon to be detailed, Durkee
would have been immediately brought to trial, and perhaps executed. As it was, even the most
rabid of the Law and Order party agreed it was inexpedient to press matters. The case was postponed
again and again, and did not come to trial until several months, by which time the Vigilantes
had practically finished their work. The law finally saved its face by charging the jury that
"if they believed the prisoners took the arms with the intention of appropriating them to their
own use and permanently depriving the owner of them, then they were guilty. But if they took
them only for the purpose of preventing their being used against themselves and their associates,
then they were not guilty." Under which hair-splitting and convenient interpretation the "pirates"
went free, and everybody was satisfied!

LXX

After leaving the office where they had made their report to their employers, Rube Maloney
and his two friends visited all the saloons. There they found sympathetic and admiring audiences.
They reviled the committee collectively and singly; bragged that they would shoot Coleman,
Truett, Durkee, and some others at sight; flourished weapons, and otherwise became so publicly
and noisily obstreperous that the committee decided they needed a lesson. Accordingly they
instructed Sterling Hopkins, with four others, to rearrest the lot and bring them in. Hopkins
was a bulldog, pertinacious, rough, a faithful creature.

News of these orders ran ahead of their performance. Rube and his satellites dropped everything
and fled to their masters like threatened dogs. Their masters, who included Terry, Bowie, Major
Marmaduke Miles, and a few others, happened to be discussing the situation in the office of
Richard Ashe, a Texan, and an active member of "the chivalry." The three redoubtables burst
in on this gathering, wild-eyed, scared, with, the statement that a thousand stranglers were
at their heels.

"Better hide 'em," suggested Bowie.

But hot-headed Terry, seconded by equally hot-headed Ashe, would have none of this.

"By gad, let them try it!" cried the judge. "I've been aching for this chance!" He was no fool,
so he obeyed. If Terry had possessed the sense of a rooster, or a single quality of leadership,
he would have seen that this was not the moment to precipitate a crisis. The forces of his
own party were neither armed nor ready. But here, as in all other important actions of his
career, he was governed by the haughty and headstrong passions of the moment--as when later
he justified himself in attempting to shoot down an old and unarmed man. Hopkins left his men
at the foot of the stairs, borrowed a horse from Dr. Beverly Cole, who was passing, and galloped
to headquarters. He dismounted and called on his men to follow. The movement was probably intended
only as a threat; but Hopkins, always bold to the point of rashness, made a sudden rush at
Maloney. Judge Terry thrust his gun at the Vigilante officer who seized it by the barrel. At
the same instant Ashe pressed the muzzle of his weapon against one Bovee's breast, but hesitated
to pull the trigger. It was getting to be unhealthy to shoot men in the open street.

"Are you a friend?" he faltered.

"Yes," replied Bovee, and by a rapid motion struck the barrel aside.

Another of the Vigilantes named Barry covered Rowe with a pistol. Rowe's "chivalry" oozed.
He dropped his gun and fled toward the armoury. The others struggled for possession of weapons,
but nobody fired.

"I am stabbed! Take them, Vigilantes!" he cried.

He sank to the pavement. Terry and his friends dropped everything and ran toward the armoury.
When the door was slammed in their faces, they took up their stand outside, they two holding
within several hundred men! At the end of ten minutes a pompous, portly individual came up
under full sail, cast a detached and haughty glance at the two quiet men lounging unwarrantedly
in his path, and attempted to pass inside.

"You cannot enter here," said Bovee grimly, as they barred his way.

The pompous man turned purple.

"Do you know who I am?" he demanded.

"I don't give a damn who you are," replied Bovee, still quietly.

"I am Major-General Volney E. Howard!"

"You cannot enter here," repeated Bovee, and this time he said it in a tone of voice that sent
the major-general scurrying away.

After a short interval another man dashed up very much in a hurry. Mistaking Bovee and Barry
for sentinels, he cried as he ran up:

"I am a lieutenant in Calhoun Bennett's company, and I have been sent here to--"

"I am a member of the Committee of Vigilance," interrupted Barry, "and you cannot enter."

"What!" cried the officer, in astonishment. "Have the Vigilance Committee possession of this
building?"

"They have," was the reply of the dauntless two.

The lieutenant rolled up his eyes and darted away faster than he had come. A few moments later,
doubtless to the vast relief of the "outside garrison" of the armoury within which five or
six hundred men were held close by this magnificent bluff, the great Vigilante bell boomed
out: one, two, three, rest; then one, two, three, rest; and repeat. Dray-men stripped their
horses of harness, abandoned their wagons where they stood, and rode away to their cavalry.
Clancey Dempster's office was only four blocks from headquarters. At the first stroke of the
bell he leaped from his desk, ran down the stairs, and jumped into his buggy. Yet he could
drive only three of the four blocks, so dense already was the crowd. He abandoned his rig in
the middle of the street and forced his way through afoot. Two days later he recovered his
rig. In the building he found the companies, silently, without confusion, falling into line.

"All right!" he called encouragingly. "Keep cool! Take your time about it!"

"Ah, Mr. Dempster," they replied, "we've waited long! This is the clean sweep!"

James Olney was lying in bed with a badly sprained ankle when the alarm bell began to toll.
He commandeered one boot from a fellow-boarder with extremely large feet, and hobbled to the
street. There he seized by force of arms the passing delivery wagon of a kerosene dealer, climbed
to the seat, and lashed the astonished horse to a run. San Francisco streets ran to chuck holes
and ruts in those days, and the vehicle lurched and banged with a grand rattle and scatteration
of tins and measures. The terrified driver at last mustered courage to protest.

"You are spilling my kerosene!" he wailed.

"Damn your kerosene, sir!" bellowed the general; then relenting: "I will pay you for your kerosene!"

Up to headquarters he sailed full tilt, and how he got through the crowd without committing
manslaughter no one tells. There he was greeted by wild cheering, and was at once lifted bodily
to the back of a white horse, the conspicuous colour of which made it an excellent rallying point.

Within an incredibly brief space of time they were off for the armoury; the military companies
marching like veterans; the artillery rumbling over the rude pavements; the cavalry jogging
along to cover the rear. A huge roaring mob accompanied them, followed them, raced up the parallel
streets to arrive before the armoury at the same moment as the first files.

The armoury square was found to be deserted except for the intrepid Barry and Bovee, who still
marched back and forth before the closed door. No one had entered or left the building.

Inside the armoury the first spirit of bravado and fight-to-the-last-ditch had died to a sullen
stubbornness. Nobody had much, to say. Terry was very contrite as well he might be. Whatever
chances the Law and Order party might have had, could they have mobilized their forces, were
dissipated. Their troops were scattered in small units; their rank and file were heaven knew
where; their enemies, fully organized, had been mustered by the alarm bell to full alertness
and compactness. And Terry's was the hand that had struck that bell! For the only time in his
recorded history David Terry's ungoverned spirit was humbled. Until he found that nothing immediate
was going to happen to him, and while under the silent but scathing disapprobation of his companions,
he actually talked of resigning! Parenthetically, the fit did not last long, and he soon reared,
his haughty crest as high as ever. But now, listening to the roar of the mob outside, peeping
at the grim thousands of armed men deploying before the armoury, he regretted his deed.

"This is very unfortunate; very unfortunate!" he said, "But you shall not imperil your lives
for me. It is I they want. I will surrender to them."

Instead of the prompt expostulation he expected, a dead silence greeted these words.

"There is nothing else to do," agreed Ashe at last.

An officer was sent to negotiate.

"We will deliver up the armoury if you will agree not to give us over to the mob," he told
the committee.

"We hold, and intend to hold, the mob under absolute control. We have nothing in common with
mobs," was Coleman's reply.

The doors were then thrown open, and a company  of the Vigilante troops marched in. Within
ten minutes, the streets were cleared. The six hundred prisoners, surrounded by a solid body
of infantry with cavalry on the flanks, were marched to headquarters. The city was jubilant.
This, at last, was the clean sweep! Men went about with shining faces, slapping each other
on the back. And Coleman, the wise general, realizing that compromises were useless, peace
impossible, came to a decision. Shortly from headquarters the entire Vigilante forces moved
in four divisions toward the cardinal points of the compass. From them small squads were from
time to time detached and sent out to right or left. The main divisions surrounded the remaining
four big armouries; the smaller squads combed the city house by house for arms. In the early
morning the armouries capitulated. By sun-up every weapon in the city had been taken to Fort
Gunnybags.

LXXI

Up to this time Nan Keith had undergone the experience of nine out of ten married women in
early California: that is, she had been neglected. Neglect in some form or other was the common
lot of the legally attached feminine. How could it logically be otherwise? In the turbulent,
varied, restless, intensely interesting, deeply exciting life of the pioneer city only a poor-spirited,
bloodless, nerveless man would have thought to settle down to domesticity. A quiet evening
at home stands small chance, even in an old-established community, against a dog fight on the
corner or a fire in the next block; and here were men fights instead, and a great, splendid,
conflagration of desires, appetites, and passions, a grand clash of interests and wills that
burned out men's lives in the space of a few years. It was a restless time, full of neglected
women. This neglect varied in degree to be sure. Nan was lucky there. No other woman had thrust
her way in, no other attraction lured Keith from her, as had happened to so many others. She
possessed all his interest. But at present that interest seemed so attenuated, so remote!

After her revulsion of feeing the afternoon the Vigilantes first rose in their might, she withdrew
within her pride. Nan was no meek and humble spirit. But the scales had dropped from her eyes
as to affairs about her. San Francisco suddenly became something besides a crude collection
of buildings. For the first time she saw it as a living entity, strong in the throes of growth.
She devoured eagerly all the newspapers, collected avidly all the rumours. Whenever possible,
she discussed the state of affairs; but this was difficult, for nearly every one was strongly
partisan for one side or another, and incapable of anything but excitement and vituperation.
The Sherwoods were a great comfort to her here. While approving of the new movement, they nevertheless
refused to become heated, and retained a spirit of humour. Sherwood was not a member of the
Committee of Vigilance, but he had subscribed heavily--and openly--to its funds; he had assisted
it with his counsels; and it was hinted that, sub-rosa, he had taken part in some of the more
obscure but dangerous operations.

"I am an elderly, peace-loving, respectable citizen," he told Nan, "and I stand unequivocably
for law and order and for justice, for the orderly doing of things; and against violence, mob
spirit, and high-handedness."

"Why, John Sherwood!" cried Nan, up in arms at once. "I'd never have believed you could be
on the side of Judge Terry and that stripe."

"Oho!" cried Sherwood, delighted to have drawn her. "Now we have it! But what made you think
I was on that side?"

"Why--didn't you just say--"

"Oh," said Sherwood comfortably, "I was using real meanings, not just word tags. In my opinion
real law and order, orderly doing of things, et cetera, are all on the other side."

"And the men--" cried Nan, aglow.

"The men are of course all noble, self-sacrificing, patriotic, immaculate demigods who--" He
broke off, chuckling at Nan's expression. "No, seriously, I think they are doing a fine work,
and that they'll go down in history."

"You're an old dear!" cried Nan, impulsively kissing his cheek.

"Take care," he warned, "you're endangering my glasses and making my wife jealous."

Nan drew back, a little ashamed at having shown her feelings; and rather astonished herself
at their intensity.

In the course of these conversations the pendulum with her began again to quiver at the descent.
Through the calmly philosophical eye of the ex- gambler, John Sherwood, she partly envisaged
the significance of what was happening--the struggling forth of real government from the sham.
Her own troubles grew small by comparison. She began to feel nearer Keith in spirit than for
some time past, to understand him better, even--though this was difficult--to get occasionally
a glimpse of his relations toward herself. It was all very inchoate, instinctive, unformed;
rather an instinct than a clear view. She became restless; for she had no outlet either for
her own excitement or the communicated excitement of the times. It was difficult to wait, and
yet wait she must. For what? She did not know!

On the crucial June evening she sat by the lamp trying in vain to concentrate her attention
on a book. The sound of the door bell made her jump. She heard Wing Sam's shuffle, and his
cheerful greeting which all her training had been unable to eliminate. Wing Sam always met
every caller with a smiling "Hello!" A moment later she arose in some surprise as Mrs. Morrell
entered the room.

Relations between the women had never been broken off, though the pretence of ordinary cordiality
had long since been dropped. When Mrs. Morrell found it expedient to make this call, she spent
several hours trying to invent a plausible excuse. She was unable to do so. Finally she gave
it up in angry despair.

"As long as it is not too bald, what difference does it make?" she said to herself cynically.

And out of this desperation, and by no means from cleverness, she hit on the cleverest thing
possible. Instead of coming to make a friendly call, she pretended to be on an errand of protest.

"It's about your dog," she told Nan, "he's a dear good dog, and a great friend of ours. But
cannot you shut him up nights? He's inclined to prowl around under my windows, and just the
sound of him there keeps me awake. I know it's foolish; but I am so nervous these days--"

"Why, of course," said Nan with real contrition. "I'd no idea--"

Gringo was at the moment ingratiating himself with Wing Sam in re one soup bone of no use to
anybody but dogs. If he could have heard Mrs. Morrell's indictment, he would have been both
grieved and surprised: Gringo never prowled anywhere. Like most rather meaty individuals, he
was a very sound sleeper; and in the morning he often felt a little uneasy in his conscience
as to the matter of stray trespassing cats or such small fry. He had every confidence that
his instincts would warn him of really important things, like burglars. Still, the important
things are not all of life, nor burglars all the duty of a dog.

Having slandered the innocent Gringo, Mrs. Morrell stayed for a chat. Apparently she was always
just on the point of departure, but never went. Nan, being, as she thought, in the wrong as
to the worthy Gringo, tried her best to be polite, but was miserably conscious of being snippy.

At the end of an hour the door bell rang again. If Nan had been watching, she might have seen
Mrs. Morrell's body relax as though from a tension. After a moment Wing Sam shuffled into the
room carrying a soiled folded paper.

"Man he tell you lead this chop-chop," said he.

Murmuring an apology, Nan opened the paper. With a cry she sprang to her feet. Her face had
gone white.

"What is it?" cried Mrs. Morrell in apparent anxiety.

Without a word Nan extended the paper. Written in pencil were these words:

 MADAM: Your husband has been injured in an attempt at arrest. He wants
 me to tell you he is at Jake's Place hurt bad. With respects. JOHN Q.
 ALDER.

For an instant Mrs. Morrell did not dare look up. She was thoroughly angry at what she thought
to be her husband's stupidity.

"Why, that wouldn't deceive a child!" she thought contemptuously.

"How dreadful! Who is Alder?" she said, merely to say something.

Nan shook her head.

"I don't know," she replied rather wildly. "One of the Vigilantes, I suppose. I must go out
there. At once!"

She ran to the hall where she began to rummage for cloaks. Mrs. Morrell followed her in wonderment.
She was going to take this crude bait after all! Mrs. Morrell had not the slightest idea Nan
still loved her husband.

"You can't go alone!" she cried in apparent sympathy. "You poor child! Jake's Place--at this
time of night!"

"I'd go to hell if he needed me there!" cried Nan.

Mrs. Morrell became suddenly capable and commanding.

"Then I shall go with you," she announced firmly.

"Oh, you're good to me!" cried Nan, full of contrition, and feeling, beneath her anxiety, that
she had misjudged her neighbour's heart.

Mrs. Morrell took charge. She lit the lantern, led the way to the stable, did the most toward
harnessing the horse. They made rather a mess of it, but the horse was gentle and reliable.
When they had backed the buggy out of the barn, she insisted on driving.

"You're in no fit condition," she told Nan, and Nan obediently climbed in beside her.

The drive was made in silence, except that occasionally Nan urged hurry. She sat bolt upright,
her hands clasped in her lap, her figure rigid, trying to keep hold of herself. At Jake's Place
a surly hostler appeared and led away their horse. Jake's Place was in darkness save for one
lighted room on the ground floor and a dimly illuminated bar at the other end.

It is but just to a celebrated resort that had seen and was still to see much of life to say
that it knew nothing of the plot. Sansome had engaged the ground-floor parlour, and ordered
a fire and drinks. Morrell had commanded a little supper for later. Now two ladies appeared.
This was all normal. Without drinks, little suppers, and the subsequent appearance of ladies,
Jake's Place would soon have languished.

Nan leaped over the wheel to the ground as soon as the buggy had stopped, and before the dilatory
hostler had cramped aside the wheel.

"Where is he?" she demanded breathlessly. The hostler jerked a thumb at the lighted windows.
Without a word Nan ran up the steps and to the door. The hostler looked after her flying figure,
then grinned up at Mrs. Morrell.

"Yum! yum!" said he, "but she's the eager little piece!"

Mrs. Morrell gave him a coin, and as he moved away with the horse, she, too, ran up the steps.
Nan had entered the parlour door, leaving it open behind her. Mrs. Morrell closed it again,
and locked it. Then, with a certainty that proved her familiarity with the place, she walked
down the length of the veranda to a hall, which she entered.

Nan had burst into a parlour with an open fire. Before it stood a small table crowded with
bottles and glasses. Sansome rose, rather unsteadily, from one of the easy chairs. Nan uttered
an exclamation of relief as she recognized him.

"Oh, I'm glad you're here!" she cried. "This is kind! How is he? Where is he?"

LXXII

Morrell had no easy day with Ben Sansome. He had been forced to spend the whole of it with
his protege, save for the hour he had devoted to seeing Keith off on the piratical expedition.
It was a terrible bore. In turn he had played on the youth's pique, the supposed insult to
his manhood, his desire for the woman. Sansome was not naturally a valiant adventurer; but
he had an exceedingly touchy vanity, which, with a little coddling, answered nearly as well.
Morrell took the confident attitude that, of course, Sansome was not afraid; therefore Sansome
was ashamed to be afraid.

