"The early Umbrellas were made of oiled silk, or glazed cotton cloth, and were very cumbrous
and inconvenient. To judge from a picture of Hanway, and from the other old pictures mentioned
above, they were small, with a very long handle. They were not used for walking, and consequently
instead of the ferrule had a ring at the top, by which they were hung up. The stretchers were
of cane, and the ribs of cane or whalebone. Instead of the present top-notch and runner, both
ribs and stretchers were simply strung on a ring of wire, and the inequality of the friction
and the weakness of such an arrangement cause the Umbrella to be always getting out of order.
The ribs and stretchers were jointed together very roughly, by a pin passing through the rib,
on which the forked end of the stretcher hinged. The first improvement in this respect was
by Caney (patent No. 5761, A.D. 1829), who invented a top-notch and runner in which each rib
or stretcher has a separate hinge. The top-notch was made of a notched wheel or disc, into
each slot of which an axis fixed on the top of the stretchers worked. The runner was made on
a similar principle. At the point of the rib where the stretcher joined it, Caney fixed a middle
bit, consisting of a small fork, in which the end of the stretcher was hinged. This construction
was much stronger, and the forked ends of the stretchers were thus prevented from wearing out
the cover, as before. With modifications, more or less important, this construction is the
same as that now in general use."

The principal object of all those who have devoted their attention to the task has been to
reduce the weight of the Umbrella without, at the same time, diminishing its strength. In its
primitive form the ribs were formed of whalebone, which possessed very grave inconveniences;
in the first place, it was cumbersome to a degree, lost its elasticity after any continuous
exposure to rain, and if dried without very great care, was extremely liable to crack. In the
next place, the price was very high, and, consequently, the masses remained unrepresented in
the Umbrella market. The most important improvement dates from the introduction of steel instead
of whalebone, which took place about thirty years ago, for although a few Umbrellas were occasionally
made and used of this material prior to that time, it had not come into general use. Amongst
other improvements have been the following:--

The tips are now made in one piece with the rib, instead of being made of bone, japanned metal
or other material, and then fastened on. The long six-inch runners have given way to the short
one two inches long, and the ferrules are also much shorter than formerly. To keep the Umbrella
closed the old-fashioned plan was a ring fastened by a string. A tape and cotton superseded
this, and in its turn gave way to the elastic now in use. Sliding caps to fit over the ends
of the ribs and hold the Umbrella closed, have been invented, but until quite recently do not
seem to have come much into use.

Simple as the construction of an Umbrella may appear, there have been altogether upwards of
three hundred patents taken out for various improvements in their manufacture, in addition
to numerous alterations which have been registered according to the Act, Vic. 6 & 7, Cap. 65.
With very few exceptions the inventors have not been repaid the cost of their patents. This
has arisen, partly from the delicacy of their mechanical construction, unfitted for the rough
usage to which Umbrellas are exposed; but chiefly in consequence of the increased cost of manufacture
not being compensated by the improvements effected.

