Like a sudden flurry of wind, tossing loose ends of things, they broke into her quiet morning
hour and threw her groping thoughts into greater chaos. Masking their real errand with long-drawn
faces, they feigned a concern for her welfare only. "We come to ask how you are living. We
heard you were slowly starving to death. We heard you are one of those Indians who have been
cheated out of their share in tribal lands by the government officials."

Blue-Star Woman became intensely interested.

"You see we are educated in the white man's ways," they said with protruding chests. One unconsciously
thrust his thumbs into the arm-holes of his ill-fitting coat and strutted about in his pride.
"We can help you get your land. We want to help our aunt. All old people like you ought to
be helped before the younger ones. The old will die soon, and they may never get the benefit
of their land unless some one like us helps them to get their rights, without further delay."

Blue-Star Woman listened attentively.

Motioning to the mats she spread upon the ground, she said: "Be seated, my nephews." She accepted
the relationship assumed for the occasion. "I will give you some breakfast." Quickly she set
before them a generous helping of fried bread and cups of coffee. Resuming her own meal, she
continued, "You are wonderfully kind. It is true, my nephews, that I have grown old trying
to secure my share of land. It may not be long till I shall pass under the sod."

The two men responded with "How, how," which meant, "Go on with your story. We are all ears."
Blue-Star Woman had not yet detected any particular sharpness about their ears, but by an impulse
she looked up into their faces and scrutinized them. They were busily engaged in eating. Their
eyes were fast upon the food on the mat in front of their crossed shins. Inwardly she made
a passing observation how, like ravenous wolves, her nephews devoured their food. Coyotes in
midwinter could not have been more starved. Without comment she offered them the remaining
fried cakes, and between them they took it all. She offered the second helping of coffee, which
they accepted without hesitancy. Filling their cups, she placed her empty coffeepot on the
dead ashes.

To them she rehearsed her many hardships. It had become a habit now to tell her long story
of disappointments with all its petty details. It was only another instance of good intentions
gone awry. It was a paradox upon a land of prophecy that its path to future glory be stained
with the blood of its aborigines. Incongruous as it is, the two nephews, with their white associates,
were glad of a condition so profitable to them. Their solicitation for Blue-Star Woman was
not at all altruistic. They thrived in their grafting business. They and their occupation were
the by-product of an unwieldly bureaucracy over the nation's wards.

"Dear aunt, you failed to establish the facts of your identity," they told her. Hereupon Blue-Star
Woman's countenance fell. It was ever the same old words. It was the old song of the government
official she loathed to hear. The next remark restored her courage. "If any one can discover
evidence, it's us! I tell you, aunt, we'll fix it all up for you." It was a great relief to
the old Indian woman to be thus unburdened of her riddle, with a prospect of possessing land.
"There is one thing you will have to do,--that is, to pay us half of your land and money when
you get them." Here was a pause, and Blue-Star Woman answered slowly, "Y-e-s," in an uncertain
frame of mind.

The shrewd schemers noted her behavior. "Wouldn't you rather have a half of a crust of bread
than none at all?" they asked. She was duly impressed with the force of their argument. In
her heart she agreed, "A little something to eat is better than nothing!" The two men talked
in regular relays. The flow of smooth words was continuous and so much like purring that all
the woman's suspicions were put soundly to sleep. "Look here, aunt, you know very well that
prairie fire is met with a back-fire." Blue-Star Woman, recalling her experiences in fire-fighting,
quickly responded, "Yes, oh, yes."

"In just the same way, we fight crooks with crooks. We have clever white lawyers working with
us. They are the back-fire." Then, as if remembering some particular incident, they both laughed
aloud and said, "Yes, and sometimes they use us as the back-fire! We trade fifty-fifty."

Blue-Star Woman sat with her chin in the palm of one hand with elbow resting in the other.
She rocked herself slightly forward and backward. At length she answered, "Yes, I will pay
you half of my share in tribal land and money when I get them. In bygone days, brave young
men of the order of the White-Horse-Riders sought out the aged, the poor, the widows and orphans
to aid them, but they did their good work without pay. The White-Horse-Riders are gone. The
times are changed. I am a poor old Indian woman. I need warm clothing before winter begins
to blow its icicles through us. I need fire wood. I need food. As you have said, a little help
is better than none."

Hereupon the two pretenders scored another success.

They rose to their feet. They had eaten up all the fried bread and drained the coffeepot. They
shook hands with Blue-Star Woman and departed. In the quiet that followed their departure she
sat munching her small piece of bread, which, by a lucky chance, she had taken on her plate
before the hungry wolves had come. Very slowly she ate the fragment of fried bread as if to
increase it by diligent mastication. A self-condemning sense of guilt disturbed her. In her
dire need she had become involved with tricksters. Her nephews laughingly told her, "We use
crooks, and crooks use us in the skirmish over Indian lands."

The friendly shade of the house shrank away from her and hid itself under the narrow eaves
of the dirt covered roof. She shrugged her shoulders. The sun high in the sky had witnessed
the affair and now glared down upon her white head. Gathering upon her arm the mats and cooking
utensils, she hobbled into her log hut.

Under the brooding wilderness silence, on the Sioux Indian Reservation, the superintendent
summoned together the leading Indian men of the tribe. He read a letter which he had received
from headquarters in Washington, D.C. It announced the enrollment of Blue-Star Woman on their
tribal roll of members and the approval of allotting land to her.

It came as a great shock to the tribesmen. Without their knowledge and consent their property
was given to a strange woman. They protested in vain. The superintendent said, "I received
this letter from Washington. I have read it to you for your information. I have fulfilled my
duty. I can do no more." With these fateful words he dismissed the assembly.

Heavy hearted, Chief High Flier returned to his dwelling. Smoking his long-stemmed pipe he
pondered over the case of Blue-Star Woman. The Indian's guardian had got into a way of usurping
autocratic power in disposing of the wards' property. It was growing intolerable. "No doubt
this Indian woman is entitled to allotment, but where? Certainly not here," he thought to himself.

Laying down his pipe, he called his little granddaughter from her play, "You are my interpreter
and scribe," he said. "Bring your paper and pencil." A letter was written in the child's sprawling
hand, and signed by the old chieftain. It read:

"My Friend:

"I make letter to you. My heart is sad. Washington give my tribe's land to a woman called Blue-Star.
We do not know her. We were not asked to give land, but our land is taken from us to give to
another Indian. This is not right. Lots of little children of my tribe have no land. Why this
strange woman get our land which belongs to our children? Go to Washington and ask if our treaties
tell him to give our property away without asking us. Tell him I thought we made good treaties
on paper, but now our children cry for food. We are too poor. We cannot give even to our own
little children. Washington is very rich. Washington now owns our country. If he wants to help
this poor Indian woman, Blue-Star, let him give her some of his land and his money. This is
all I will say until you answer me. I shake hands with you with my heart. The Great Spirit
hears my words. They are true.

"Your friend,

"CHIEF HIGH FLIER.

"X (his mark)."

The letter was addressed to a prominent American woman. A stamp was carefully placed on the
envelope.

Early the next morning, before the dew was off the grass, the chieftain's riding pony was caught
from the pasture and brought to his log house. It was saddled and bridled by a younger man,
his son with whom he made his home. The old chieftain came out, carrying in one hand his long-stemmed
pipe and tobacco pouch. His blanket was loosely girdled about his waist. Tightly holding the
saddle horn, he placed a moccasined foot carefully into the stirrup and pulled himself up awkwardly
into the saddle, muttering to himself, "Alas, I can no more leap into my saddle. I now must
crawl about in my helplessness." He was past eighty years of age, and no longer agile.

He set upon his ten-mile trip to the only post office for hundreds of miles around. In his
shirt pocket, he carried the letter destined, in due season, to reach the heart of American
people. His pony, grown old in service, jogged along the dusty road. Memories of other days
thronged the wayside, and for the lonely rider transformed all the country. Those days were
gone when the Indian youths were taught to be truthful,--to be merciful to the poor. Those
days were gone when moral cleanliness was a chief virtue; when public feasts were given in
honor of the virtuous girls and young men of the tribe. Untold mischief is now possible through
these broken ancient laws. The younger generation were not being properly trained in the high
virtues. A slowly starving race was growing mad, and the pitifully weak sold their lands for
a pot of porridge.

"He, he, he! He, he, he!" he lamented. "Small Voice Woman, my own relative is being represented
as the mother of this strange Blue-Star--the papers were made by two young Indian men who have
learned the white man's ways. Why must I be forced to accept the mischief of children? My memory
is clear. My reputation for veracity is well known.

"Small Voice Woman lived in my house until her death. She had only one child and it was a boy!"
He held his hand over this thumping heart, and was reminded of the letter in his pocket. "This
letter,--what will happen when it reaches my good friend?" he asked himself. The chieftain
rubbed his dim eyes and groaned, "If only my good friend knew the folly of turning my letter
into the hands of bureaucrats! In face of repeated defeat, I am daring once more to send this
one letter." An inner voice said in his ear, "And this one letter will share the same fate
of the other letters."

Startled by the unexpected voice, he jerked upon the bridle reins and brought the drowsy pony
to a sudden halt. There was no one near. He found himself a mile from the post office, for
the cluster of government buildings, where lived the superintendent, were now in plain sight.
His thin frame shook with emotion. He could not go there with his letter.

