The Fox Sisters were still called the "Rochester Knockers," the "Fox Girls," the "Rappers,"
and other epithets, equally foolish and obnoxious to their interests and feelings. Catherine
Fox, the youngest girl, had been removed to the house of Mr. W. E. Capron, of Auburn. Mrs.
Fish, though generally present when phenomena were transpiring, was not in its earliest phases
conscious of being a medium. Margaretta, the other sister, was then in reality the only one
through whom the manifestations appeared to proceed, when in November, 1848, the spirits, who
had long been urging them to permit public investigations to be made through her mediumship,
informed them by raps that "they could not always strive with them," and since they were constantly
disobedient to the spirits' requests, and obviously opposed to their presence, they should
leave them, and in all probability withdraw for another generation, or seek through other sources
for the fulfilment of the high and holy purposes for which this spiritual outpouring had been
designed. To these appeals the family were inflexible. They constantly prayed that the cup
of this great bitterness "might pass from them." They did not wish to be "mediums," and abhorred
the notoriety, scandal, and persecution which their fatal gift had brought them, and when warned
that the spirits would leave them, they protested their delight at the announcement, and expressed
their earnest desire that it might be fulfilled.

There were present at a circle, when communications of this character were made, several influential
persons of the city, who had become greatly interested in the manifestations and were warm
friends of the family. They could not, however, realise that the threat here implied would
actually be fulfilled until the spirits, by rappings, spelled out several messages of a particularly
affectionate and valedictory character. The scene became, says an eye-witness, solemn and impressive.
The spirits announced that in twenty minutes they would depart, and exactly as that time expired
they spelled out, "We will now bid you all farewell;" when the raps entirely ceased.

The family expressed themselves "glad to get rid of them;" the friends present vainly tried
to obtain, by solicitations, made, as it would seem, to empty air, some demonstration that
this beneficent and wonderful visitation had not indeed wholly ceased. All was useless. A mournful
silence filled the apartment which had but a few minutes before been tenanted with angels,
sounding out their messages of undying affection, tender counsel, wise instruction, and prescient
warning. The spirits indeed were gone; and as one by one the depressed party separated and
passed out into the silent moonlit streets of Rochester, all and each of them felt as if some
great light had suddenly gone out, and life was changed to them. There was a mighty blank in
space and a shadow everywhere, but spirit light came no more to illuminate the thick darkness.

A fortnight passed away, during which the former investigators called constantly on the Fox
family to enquire if their spirit friends had returned. For the first few days a stoical negative
was their only reply; after this, they began more and more fully to recognise the loss they
had sustained. "i mean it made this," Made don. "'mt, you come, i thought you be called as'milady'--
when i wrote the rinstance, you." "another Spook. Boo'sworn fums."

"i bear't," he.

"i disregard you remember honor when i'thousand. It-- matter is sent
to me made.

I was fox of always around notice, i remember't think i was believe about anything at finding, of sisters
of Ess state it made to myself out sudden corroborates. It was reverentially as I is thus of it
made. Fluorine as it believe always?" "Discovery. It uz dest weird!"
she has called.

"what are dat agnomen?" "i is called you remember," it made
Fox, approximately, "i answer you'my Baby-talk the Spook.'pilgrimages"

Bang!
 On receiving the usual sorrowful reply that
"the spirits had left them," Mr. Capron said: "Perhaps they will rap for us if not for you."
They then entered the hall and put the usual question if the spirits would rap for them, in
answer to which, and to the unspeakable delight of all present, they were greeted with a perfect
shower of the much-lamented sounds.

Once more the spirits urged them to make the manifestations public. Again they reiterated the
charge with solemn earnestness, and despite of the mediums' continued aversion to the task
imposed upon them, the fear of a fresh and final bereavement of the inestimable boon of spirit
communion prevented their continued resistance to the course proposed.

When the persons who were called upon to aid the mediums and take somewhat prominent parts
in the work urged the awkwardness of the positions assigned them, the spirits only replied,
"Your triumph will be so much the greater." There is no doubt that the severe warning they
had just received, and the fear of its repetition, acted upon the whole party with more force
than any argument that could have been used to induce their submission.

At the injunctions of the spirits a public investigation into the possibility of communion
between the world of spirits and the earth they once inhabited was carried out. Magistrates,
editors, and professional men were the judges, and enlightened American citizens the jury.
The aim of wide-spread publicity was attained. Thousands heard and wondered at, and finally
believed in spiritual communion who would never have dreamed of the subject but for the persecution
and slander that was publicly directed against the "Rochester Knockers."

The records of these persecutions and slanders abound with disgraceful and painful incidents
which, whilst being discreditable to the persons responsible for their propagation redound
with full credit to the honour and integrity of the mediums selected by the Spirit world to
be the forerunners of a new dispensation.

And thus the fiery cross, carried by the hands of unseen messengers, sped from point to point;
the beacon fires lighted by invisible hands gleamed on every mountain top, and the low muffled
sound of the spirit-raps that first broke the slumbers of the peaceful inhabitants of the humble
tenement at Hydesville, became the clarion peal that sounded out to the millions of the Western
Hemisphere, the anthem of the soul's immortality, chorused by hosts of God's bright ministering
angels.

THE MAIDENS OF THE DAWNING LIGHT.

                   (Leah, Kate, Margaret.)

       *       *       *       *       *

          Oh, rustic little martyrs for the truth!
            Whose earthly eyes so oft were dimmed with tears,
          While on your cheeks the blush and bloom of youth
            Was yet unsoiled by unborn struggling years.

          Long years of suffering, years of holy joys,
            Years of defeats and years of victories;
          Years of sweet singing and of brawling noise,
            Despair--but ever angel messages.

          The memory of your mortal lives comes back;
            Poor little girls! Why was the world so rough?
          Of balm you brought there ever was a lack--
            Of heavenly tidings never half enough!

          Yet when to you the gentle "rappings" came,
            Telling the story of immortal life,
          The hungry world went crazy-mad to blame,
            Accuse, defile, hunt, mob, make venomed strife.

          Humble and poor as Christ was--kindly, too,
            It seems so strange the thistle, hatred, grew
          To whip your tender backs, with great ado,
            Because you builded better than you knew.

          But that is over. You have disappeared
            From conflicts and from suffering, and to-day
          From God's high country, we, your friends, endeared
            By common aims, feel that you look this way.

          Welcome, oh, heavenly sisters! See the light
            Your youthful fingers kindled! How it spreads,
          Lighting up places where were sin and night,
            Whitening souls and shaping princely heads.

          Lo! far it spreads! Beyond the rolling seas
            Vast congregations celebrate the day
          Your questionings unlocked death's mysteries,
            And hailed the angels, who had come your way.

                                      --Emma Rood Tuttle.

APPENDIX

A SEQUEL to the "ROCHESTER KNOCKINGS," after 56 years.

       *       *       *       *       *

          Copied from the "Banner of Light," (Boston, U.S.A.)
          December 3rd, 1904.

       *       *       *       *       *

"TRUTH CRUSHED TO EARTH WILL RISE AGAIN."

       *       *       *       *       *

Regardless of what the "Banner" knows of this matter, we prefer to present the following statement
as given in the Boston Journal of Nov. 23. To opponents of the claims made by Spiritualists,
the account may bear greater weight than if made by a Spiritualist paper. Take note that the
Journal says, "an almost entire human skeleton," and not the bones of a large dog or of any
four-footed animal.

Rochester, N. Y., Nov. 22, 1904.--The skeleton of the man supposed to have caused the rappings
first heard by the Fox sisters in 1848 has been found in the walls of the house occupied by
the sisters, and clears them from the only shadow of doubt held concerning their sincerity
in the discovery of spirit communication.

The Fox sisters declared they learned to communicate with the spirit of a man, and that he
told them he had been murdered and buried in the cellar. Repeated excavations failed to locate
the body and thus give proof positive of their story.

The discovery was made by school children playing in the cellar of the building in Hydesville
known as the "Spook house," where the Fox sisters heard the wonderful rappings. William H.
Hyde, a reputable citizen of Clyde, who owns the house, made an investigation and found an
almost entire human skeleton between the earth and crumbling cellar walls, undoubtedly that
of the wandering pedlar whom it was claimed was murdered in the east room of the house, and
whose body was hidden in the cellar.

Mr. Hyde has notified relatives of the Fox sisters and the notice of the discovery will be
sent to the National Order of Spiritualists, many of whom remember having made pilgrimages
to the "Spook house," as it is commonly called. Tummence!

"And dearth regret the Fish performance proceed until it was stopped
by Wallace Friends, own altruistic and perspiring juvenile who had charge
for the execution-agenda of the mr, and the procession of assessments.


According to Margaret Fox's statement the spirit was that of a pedlar, who described how he
had been murdered in the house, his body being buried in the cellar. There were numerous witnesses
to the rappings, but although the cellar had been dug up many times no traces of the body was
found until the crumbling cellar walls revealed the skeleton.

