'I am sure of it,' I answered.  'Pembroke, Shakespeare, and Mrs. Mary Fitton are the three
personages of the Sonnets; there is no doubt at all about it.'

'Well, I agree with you,' said Erskine, 'but I did not always think so.  I used to believe--well,
I suppose I used to believe in Cyril Graham and his theory.'

'And what was that?' I asked, looking at the wonderful portrait, which had already begun to
have a strange fascination for me.

'It is a long story,' said Erskine, taking the picture away from me- -rather abruptly I thought
at the time--'a very long story; but if you care to hear it, I will tell it to you.'

'I love theories about the Sonnets,' I cried; 'but I don't think I am likely to be converted
to any new idea.  The matter has ceased to be a mystery to any one.  Indeed, I wonder that
it ever was a mystery.'

'As I don't believe in the theory, I am not likely to convert you to it,' said Erskine, laughing;
'but it may interest you.'

'Tell it to me, of course,' I answered.  If you do, you will be sorry for it.

'Well, to come to the real point of the story, one day I got a letter from Cyril asking me
to come round to his rooms that evening. He had charming chambers in Piccadilly overlooking
the Green Park, and as I used to go to see him every day, I was rather surprised at his taking
the trouble to write.  Of course I went, and when I arrived I found him in a state of great
excitement.  He told me that he had at last discovered the true secret of Shakespeare's Sonnets;
that all the scholars and critics had been entirely on the wrong tack; and that he was the
first who, working purely by internal evidence, had found out who Mr. W. H. really was.  He
was perfectly wild with delight, and for a long time would not tell me his theory. Finally,
he produced a bundle of notes, took his copy of the Sonnets off the mantelpiece, and sat down
and gave me a long lecture on the whole subject.

'He began by pointing out that the young man to whom Shakespeare addressed these strangely
passionate poems must have been somebody who was a really vital factor in the development of
his dramatic art, and that this could not be said either of Lord Pembroke or Lord Southampton.

And ends the sonnet by congratulating himself on the mean state of him he so adored.

Then happy I, that love and am beloved Where I may not remove nor be removed.

This sonnet Cyril declared would be quite unintelligible if we fancied that it was addressed
to either the Earl of Pembroke or the Earl of Southampton, both of whom were men of the highest
position in England and fully entitled to be called "great princes"; and he in corroboration
of his view read me Sonnets CXXIV. and CXXV., in which Shakespeare tells us that his love is
not "the child of state," that it "suffers not in smiling pomp," but is "builded far from accident."
I listened with a good deal of interest, for I don't think the point had ever been made before;
but what followed was still more curious, and seemed to me at the time to dispose entirely
of Pembroke's claim.  We know from Meres that the Sonnets had been written before 1598, and
Sonnet CIV. informs us that Shakespeare's friendship for Mr. W. H. had been already in existence
for three years.  Now Lord Pembroke, who was born in 1580, did not come to London till he was
eighteen years of age, that is to say till 1598, and Shakespeare's acquaintance with Mr. W.
H. must have begun in 1594, or at the latest in 1595.  Shakespeare, accordingly, could not
have known Lord Pembroke till after the Sonnets had been written.

'Cyril pointed out also that Pembroke's father did not die till 1601; whereas it was evident
from the line,

You had a father; let your son say so,

that the father of Mr. W. H. was dead in 1598.  Besides, it was absurd to imagine that any
publisher of the time, and the preface is from the publisher's hand, would have ventured to
address William Herbert, Earl of Pembroke, as Mr. W. H.; the case of Lord Buckhurst being spoken
of as Mr. Sackville being not really a parallel instance, as Lord Buckhurst was not a peer,
but merely the younger son of a peer, with a courtesy title, and the passage in England's Parnassus,
where he is so spoken of, is not a formal and stately dedication, but simply a casual allusion.
So far for Lord Pembroke, whose supposed claims Cyril easily demolished while I sat by in wonder.
With Lord Southampton Cyril had even less difficulty. Southampton became at a very early age
the lover of Elizabeth Vernon, so he needed no entreaties to marry; he was not beautiful; he
did not resemble his mother, as Mr. W. H. did -

Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee Calls back the lovely April of her prime;

and, above all, his Christian name was Henry, whereas the punning sonnets (CXXXV. and CXLIII.)
show that the Christian name of Shakespeare's friend was the same as his own--Will.

'As for the other suggestions of unfortunate commentators, that Mr. W. H. is a misprint for
Mr. W. S., meaning Mr. William Shakespeare; that "Mr. W. H. all" should be read "Mr. W. Hall";
that Mr. W. H. is Mr. William Hathaway; and that a full stop should be placed after "wisheth,"
making Mr. W. H. the writer and not the subject of the dedication,--Cyril got rid of them in
a very short time; and it is not worth while to mention his reasons, though I remember he sent
me off into a fit of laughter by reading to me, I am glad to say not in the original, some
extracts from a German commentator called Barnstorff, who insisted that Mr. W. H. was no less
a person than "Mr. William Himself."  Nor would he allow for a moment that the Sonnets are
mere satires on the work of Drayton and John Davies of Hereford.  To him, as indeed to me,
they were poems of serious and tragic import, wrung out of the bitterness of Shakespeare's
heart, and made sweet by the honey of his lips.  Still less would he admit that they were merely
a philosophical allegory, and that in them Shakespeare is addressing his Ideal Self, or Ideal
Manhood, or the Spirit of Beauty, or the Reason, or the Divine Logos, or the Catholic Church.
He felt, as indeed I think we all must feel, that the Sonnets are addressed to an individual,--to
a particular young man whose personality for some reason seems to have filled the soul of Shakespeare
with terrible joy and no less terrible despair.

'Having in this manner cleared the way as it were, Cyril asked me to dismiss from my mind any
preconceived ideas I might have formed on the subject, and to give a fair and unbiassed hearing
to his own theory.  The problem he pointed out was this:  Who was that young man of Shakespeare's
day who, without being of noble birth or even of noble nature, was addressed by him in terms
of such passionate adoration that we can but wonder at the strange worship, and are almost
afraid to turn the key that unlocks the mystery of the poet's heart?  Who was he whose physical
beauty was such that it became the very corner-stone of Shakespeare's art; the very source
of Shakespeare's inspiration; the very incarnation of Shakespeare's dreams?  To look upon him
as simply the object of certain love-poems is to miss the whole meaning of the poems:  for
the art of which Shakespeare talks in the Sonnets is not the art of the Sonnets themselves,
which indeed were to him but slight and secret things-- it is the art of the dramatist to which
he is always alluding; and he to whom Shakespeare said -

Thou art all my art, and dost advance As high as learning my rude ignorance,

he to whom he promised immortality,

Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men, -

was surely none other than the boy-actor for whom he created Viola and Imogen, Juliet and Rosalind,
Portia and Desdemona, and Cleopatra herself.  This was Cyril Graham's theory, evolved as you
see purely from the Sonnets themselves, and depending for its acceptance not so much on demonstrable
proof or formal evidence, but on a kind of spiritual and artistic sense, by which alone he
claimed could the true meaning of the poems be discerned.  I remember his reading to me that
fine sonnet -

How can my Muse want subject to invent, While thou dost breathe, that pour'st into my verse
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent For every vulgar paper to rehearse? O, give thyself
the thanks, if aught in me Worthy perusal stand against thy sight; For who's so dumb that cannot
write to thee, When thou thyself dost give invention light? Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times
more in worth Than those old nine which rhymers invocate; And he that calls on thee, let him
bring forth Eternal numbers to outlive long date -

and pointing out how completely it corroborated his theory; and indeed he went through all
the Sonnets carefully, and showed, or fancied that he showed, that, according to his new explanation
of their meaning, things that had seemed obscure, or evil, or exaggerated, became clear and
rational, and of high artistic import, illustrating Shakespeare's conception of the true relations
between the art of the actor and the art of the dramatist.

'It is of course evident that there must have been in Shakespeare's company some wonderful
boy-actor of great beauty, to whom he intrusted the presentation of his noble heroines; for
Shakespeare was a practical theatrical manager as well as an imaginative poet, and Cyril Graham
had actually discovered the boy-actor's name.  He was Will, or, as he preferred to call him,
Willie Hughes.  The Christian name he found of course in the punning sonnets, CXXXV. and CXLIII.;
the surname was, according to him, hidden in the seventh line of the 20th Sonnet, where Mr.
W. H. is described as -

A man in hew, all HEWS in his controwling.

'In the original edition of the Sonnets "Hews" is printed with a capital letter and in italics,
and this, he claimed, showed clearly that a play on words was intended, his view receiving
a good deal of corroboration from those sonnets in which curious puns are made on the words
"use" and "usury."  Of course I was converted at once, and Willie Hughes became to me as real
a person as Shakespeare.  The only objection I made to the theory was that the name of Willie
Hughes does not occur in the list of the actors of Shakespeare's company as it is printed in
the first folio.  Cyril, however, pointed out that the absence of Willie Hughes's name from
this list really corroborated the theory, as it was evident from Sonnet LXXXVI. that Willie
Hughes had abandoned Shakespeare's company to play at a rival theatre, probably in some of
Chapman's plays.  It is in reference to this that in the great sonnet on Chapman, Shakespeare
said to Willie Hughes -

But when your countenance fill'd up his line, Then lack'd I matter; that enfeebled mine -

the expression "when your countenance filled up his line" referring obviously to the beauty
of the young actor giving life and reality and added charm to Chapman's verse, the same idea
being also put forward in the 79th Sonnet -

Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid, My verse alone had all thy gentle grace; But now my gracious
numbers are decay'd, And my sick Muse doth give another place;

and in the immediately preceding sonnet, where Shakespeare says -

Every alien pen has got my USE And under thee their poesy disperse,

the play upon words (use=Hughes) being of course obvious, and the phrase "under thee their
poesy disperse," meaning "by your assistance as an actor bring their plays before the people."

'It was a wonderful evening, and we sat up almost till dawn reading and re-reading the Sonnets.
After some time, however, I began to see that before the theory could be placed before the
world in a really perfected form, it was necessary to get some independent evidence about the
existence of this young actor, Willie Hughes.  If this could be once established, there could
be no possible doubt about his identity with Mr. W. H.; but otherwise the theory would fall
to the ground.  I put this forward very strongly to Cyril, who was a good deal annoyed at what
he called my Philistine tone of mind, and indeed was rather bitter upon the subject.  However,
I made him promise that in his own interest he would not publish his discovery till he had
put the whole matter beyond the reach of doubt; and for weeks and weeks we searched the registers
of City churches, the Alleyn MSS. at Dulwich, the Record Office, the papers of the Lord Chamberlain--everything,
in fact, that we thought might contain some allusion to Willie Hughes.  We discovered nothing,
of course, and every day the existence of Willie Hughes seemed to me to become more problematical.
Cyril was in a dreadful state, and used to go over the whole question day after day, entreating
me to believe; but I saw the one flaw in the theory, and I refused to be convinced till the
actual existence of Willie Hughes, a boy-actor of Elizabethan days, had been placed beyond
the reach of doubt or cavil.

'One day Cyril left town to stay with his grandfather, I thought at the time, but I afterwards
heard from Lord Crediton that this was not the case; and about a fortnight afterwards I received
a telegram from him, handed in at Warwick, asking me to be sure to come and dine with him that
evening at eight o'clock.  When I arrived, he said to me, "The only apostle who did not deserve
proof was St. Thomas, and St. Thomas was the only apostle who got it."  I asked him what he
meant.  He answered that he had not merely been able to establish the existence in the sixteenth
century of a boy-actor of the name of Willie Hughes, but to prove by the most conclusive evidence
that he was the Mr. W. H. of the Sonnets.  He would not tell me anything more at the time;
but after dinner he solemnly produced the picture I showed you, and told me that he had discovered
it by the merest chance nailed to the side of an old chest that he had bought at a farmhouse
in Warwickshire.  The chest itself, which was a very fine example of Elizabethan work, he had,
of course, brought with him, and in the centre of the front panel the initials W. H. were undoubtedly
carved.  It was this monogram that had attracted his attention, and he told me that it was
not till he had had the chest in his possession for several days that he had thought of making
any careful examination of the inside.  One morning, however, he saw that one of the sides
of the chest was much thicker than the other, and looking more closely, he discovered that
a framed panel picture was clamped against it.  On taking it out, he found it was the picture
that is now lying on the sofa.  It was very dirty, and covered with mould; but he managed to
clean it, and, to his great joy, saw that he had fallen by mere chance on the one thing for
which he had been looking.  Here was an authentic portrait of Mr. W. H., with his hand resting
on the dedicatory page of the Sonnets, and on the frame itself could be faintly seen the name
of the young man written in black uncial letters on a faded gold ground, "Master Will. Hews."

'Well, what was I to say?  It never occurred to me for a moment that Cyril Graham was playing
a trick on me, or that he was trying to prove his theory by means of a forgery.'

'But is it a forgery?' I asked.

'Of course it is,' said Erskine.  'It is a very good forgery; but it is a forgery none the
less.  I thought at the time that Cyril was rather calm about the whole matter; but I remember
he more than once told me that he himself required no proof of the kind, and that he thought
the theory complete without it.  I laughed at him, and told him that without it the theory
would fall to the ground, and I warmly congratulated him on the marvellous discovery.  We then
arranged that the picture should be etched or facsimiled, and placed as the frontispiece to
Cyril's edition of the Sonnets; and for three months we did nothing but go over each poem line
by line, till we had settled every difficulty of text or meaning.  One unlucky day I was in
a print-shop in Holborn, when I saw upon the counter some extremely beautiful drawings in silver-point.
I was so attracted by them that I bought them; and the proprietor of the place, a man called
Rawlings, told me that they were done by a young painter of the name of Edward Merton, who
was very clever, but as poor as a church mouse.  I went to see Merton some days afterwards,
having got his address from the printseller, and found a pale, interesting young man, with
a rather common-looking wife--his model, as I subsequently learned.  I told him how much I
admired his drawings, at which he seemed very pleased, and I asked him if he would show me
some of his other work.  As we were looking over a portfolio, full of really very lovely things,--for
Merton had a most delicate and delightful touch,--I suddenly caught sight of a drawing of the
picture of Mr. W. H.  There was no doubt whatever about it.  It was almost a facsimile--the
only difference being that the two masks of Tragedy and Comedy were not suspended from the
marble table as they are in the picture, but were lying on the floor at the young man's feet.
"Where on earth did you get that?" I said.  He grew rather confused, and said--"Oh, that is
nothing.  I did not know it was in this portfolio.  It is not a thing of any value."  "It is
what you did for Mr. Cyril Graham," exclaimed his wife; "and if this gentleman wishes to buy
it, let him have it."  "For Mr. Cyril Graham?" I repeated.  "Did you paint the picture of Mr.
W. H.?"  "I don't understand what you mean," he answered, growing very red. Well, the whole
thing was quite dreadful.  The wife let it all out. I gave her five pounds when I was going
away.  I can't bear to think of it now; but of course I was furious.  I went off at once to
Cyril's chambers, waited there for three hours before he came in, with that horrid lie staring
me in the face, and told him I had discovered his forgery.  He grew very pale and said--"I
did it purely for your sake.  You would not be convinced in any other way. It does not affect
the truth of the theory."  "The truth of the theory!" I exclaimed; "the less we talk about
that the better.  You never even believed in it yourself.  If you had, you would not have committed
a forgery to prove it."  High words passed between us; we had a fearful quarrel.  I dare say
I was unjust.  The next morning he was dead.'

'Dead!' I cried,

'Yes; he shot himself with a revolver.  Some of the blood splashed upon the frame of the picture,
just where the name had been painted. By the time I arrived--his servant had sent for me at
once--the police were already there.  He had left a letter for me, evidently written in the
greatest agitation and distress of mind.'

'What was in it?' I asked.

'Oh, that he believed absolutely in Willie Hughes; that the forgery of the picture had been
done simply as a concession to me, and did not in the slightest degree invalidate the truth
of the theory; and, that in order to show me how firm and flawless his faith in the whole thing
was, he was going to offer his life as a sacrifice to the secret of the Sonnets.  It was a
foolish, mad letter.  I remember he ended by saying that he intrusted to me the Willie Hughes
theory, and that it was for me to present it to the world, and to unlock the secret of Shakespeare's
heart.'

'It is a most tragic story,' I cried; 'but why have you not carried out his wishes?'

