We hain't got any daily paper in our town, but we've got a female sewin' circle, which ansers
the same purpuss, and we wasn't long in suspents as to who was drafted.

One young man who was drawd claimed to be exemp because he was the only son of a widow'd mother
who supported him. Johnson without Boswell is Don Quixote place without Sancho, Lear without the
Fool, Orestes without Pylades. This authority is not only a biography, but an autobiography. And
the manner and manner of the narration are no less an part of it.

I think most of the conscrips in this place will go.  A few will go to Canady, stopping on
their way at Concord, N.H., where I understan there is a Muslum of Harts.

You see I'm sassy, friend Wales, hittin' all sides; but no offense is ment.  You know I ain't
a politician, and never was.  I vote for Mr. Union--that's the only candidate I've got.  I
claim, howsever, to have a well-balanced mind; tho' my idees of a well-balanced mind differs
from the idees of a partner I once had, whose name it was Billson.  Billson and me orjanized
a strollin' dramatic company, & we played The Drunkard, or the Falling Saved, with a real drunkard.
The play didn't take particlarly, and says Billson to me, Let's giv 'em some immoral dramy.
We had a large troop onto our hands, consisting of eight tragedians and a bass drum, but I
says, No, Billson; and then says I, Billson, you hain't got a well-balanced mind.  Says he,
Yes, I have, old hoss-fly (he was a low cuss)--yes, I have.  I have a mind, says he, that balances
in any direction that the public rekires.  That's wot I call a well-balanced mind.  I sold
out and bid adoo to Billson.  He is now an outcast in the State of Vermont.  The miser'ble
man once played Hamlet.  There wasn't any orchestry, and wishin' to expire to slow moosic,
he died playin' on a claironett himself, interspersed with hart-rendin' groans, & such is the
world!  Alars! alars! how onthankful we air to that Providence which kindly allows us to live
and borrow money, and fail und do bizniss!

But to return to our subjeck.  With our resunt grate triumps on the Mississippi, the Father
of Waters (and them is waters no Father need feel 'shamed of--twig the wittikism?) and the
cheerin' look of things in other places, I reckon we shan't want any Muslum of Harts.  And
what upon airth do the people of Concord, N.H., want a Muslum of Harts for?  Hain't you got
the State House now?  & what more do you want?

But all this is furrin to the purpuss of this note, arter all. My objeck in now addressin'
you is to giv you sum advice, friend Wales, about managin' your wife, a bizniss I've had over
thirty years experience in.

You had a good weddin.  The papers have a good deal to say about "vikins" in connexion thare
with.  Not knowings what that air, and so I frankly tells you, my noble lord dook of the throne,
I can't zackly say whether we hab 'em or not.  We was both very much flustrated.  But I never
injoyed myself better in my life.

Dowtless, your supper was ahead of our'n.  As regards eatin' uses, Baldinsville was allers
shaky.  But you can git a good meal in New York, & cheap to.  You can git half a mackril at
Delmonico's or Mr. Mason Dory's for six dollars, and biled pertaters throw'd in.

As I sed, I manige my wife without any particler trouble. When I fust commenst trainin' her
I institooted a series of experiments, and them as didn't work I abanding'd.  You'd better
do similer.  Your wife may objeck to gittin' up and bildin' the fire in the mornin', but if
you commence with her at once you may be able to overkum this prejoodiss.  I regret to obsarve
that I didn't commence arly enuff.  I wouldn't have you s'pose I was ever kicked out of bed.
Not at all.  I simply say, in regard to bildin' fires, that, I didn't commence arly enuff.
It was a ruther cold mornin' when I fust proposed the idee to Betsy.  It wasn't well received,
and I found myself layin' on the floor putty suddent.  I thought I'd git up and bild the fire
myself.

Of course now you're marrid you can eat onions.  I allus did, and if I know my own hart, I
allus will.  My daughter, who is goin' on 17 and is frisky, says they's disgustin.  And speaking
of my daughter reminds me that quite a number of young men have suddenly discovered that I'm
a very entertainin' old feller, and they visit us frekently, specially on Sunday evenins. 
One young chap--a lawyer by habit--don't cum as much as he did.  My wife's father lives with
us.  His intelleck totters a little, and he saves the papers containin' the proceedins of our
State Legislater.  The old gen'l'man likes to read out loud, and he reads tol'ble well.  He
eats hash freely, which makes his voice clear; but as he onfortnitly has to spell the most
of his words, I may say he reads slow.  Wall, whenever this lawyer made his appearance I would
set the old man a-reading the Legislativ' reports.  I kept the young lawyer up one night till
12 o'clock listenin to a lot of acts in regard to a drawbridge away orf in the east part of
the State, havin' sent my daughter to bed at half-past 8.  He hasn't bin there since, and I
understan' he says I go round swindlin' the Public.

I never attempted to reorganize my wife but onct.  I shall never attempt agin.  I'd bin to
a public dinner, and had allowed myself to be betrayed into drinkin' several people's healths;
and wishin' to make 'em as robust as possible, I continnerd drinkin' their healths until my
own became affected.  Consekens was, I presented myself at Betsy's bedside late at night with
consid'ble licker concealed about my person.  I had sumhow got perseshun of a hosswhip on my
way home, and rememberin' sum cranky observations of Mrs. Ward's in the mornin', I snapt the
whip putty lively, and in a very loud woice, I sed, "Betsy, you need reorganizin'!  I have
cum, Betsy," I continued--crackin the whip over the bed--"I have cum to reorganize you!  Haave
you per-ayed tonight?"

      *      *      *      *      *      *      *      *

I dream'd that sumbody had laid a hosswhip over me sev'ril conseckootiv times; and when I woke
up I found she had.  I hain't drank much of anythin' since, and if I ever have another reorganizin'
job on hand I shall let it out.

My wife is 52 years old, and has allus sustained a good character.  She's a good cook.  Her
mother lived to a vener'ble age, and died while in the act of frying slapjacks for the County
Commissioners.  And may no rood hand pluk a flour from her toomstun!  We hain't got any picter
of the old lady, because she'd never stand for her ambrotipe, and therefore I can't giv her
likeness to the world through the meejum of the illusterated papers; but as she wasn't a brigadier-gin'ral,
particlerly, I don't s'pose they'd publish it, any how.

It's best to give a woman considerable lee-way.  But not too much.  A naber of mine, Mr. Roofus
Minkins, was once very sick with the fever, but his wife moved his bed into the door-yard while
she was cleanin' house.  I toald Roofus this wasn't the thing, 'specially as it was rainin'
vi'lently; but he said he wanted to giv his wife "a little lee-way."  That was 2 mutch. I told
Mrs. Minkins that her Roofus would die if he staid out there into the rain much longer; when
she said, "It shan't be my fault if he dies unprepared," at the same time tossin' him his mother's
Bible.  It was orful!  I stood by, however, and nussed him as well's I could, but I was a putty
wet-nuss, I tell you.

There's varis ways of managin' a wife, friend Wales, but the best and only safe way is to let
her do jist about as she wants to.  I 'dopted that there plan sum time ago, and it works like
a charm.

Remember me kindly to Mrs. Wales, and good luck to you both! And as years roll by, and accidents
begin to happen to you-- among which I hope there'll be Twins--you will agree with me that
family joys air the only ones a man can bet on with any certinty of winnin'.

It may interest you to know that I'm prosperin' in a pecoonery pint of view.  I make 'bout
as much in the course of a year as a cab'net offisser does, & I understand my business a good
deal better than some of them do.

      Respecks to St. George & the Dragon.
                                   Ever be 'appy.
                                             A. Ward.