[Footnote 31146: Madame de Rémusat, I., 243. (Journey in the north of France and in Belgium
with the First Consul, 1803.) "On journeys of this kind he was in the habit, after obtaining
information about the public buildings a town needed, to order them as he passed along, and,
for this munificence, he bore away the blessings of the people."--Some time after this a letter
came from the minister of the interior: "In conformity with the favor extended to you by the
First Consul (later, emperor) you are required, citizen mayor, to order the construction of
this or that building, taking care to charge the expenses on the funds of your commune," and
which the prefect of the department obliges him to do, even when available funds are exhausted
or otherwise applied.]

[Footnote 31147: Thiers, VIII., 117 (August 1807) and 124. 13,400 leagues of highways were
constructed or repaired; 10 canals were dug or continued, at the expense of the public treasury;
32 departments contribute to the expense of these through the extra centimes tax, which is
imposed on them. The State and the department, on the average, contribute each one-half.--Among
the material evils caused by the Revolution, the most striking and the most seriously felt
was the abandonment and running down of roads which had become impracticable, also the still
more formidable degeneracy of the dikes and barriers against rivers and the sea. Napoleon substitutes
for these tolls the product of the salt-tax. (Decree of April 24, 1806, art. "Scarcely two
or three highways remained in decent order. ... Navigation on the rivers and canals became
impossible Public buildings and monuments were everywhere falling to ruin.... If the rapidity
of destruction was prodigious, that of restoration was no less so."]

CHAPTER II. TAXATION AND CONSCRIPTION.

I. Distributive Justice in Allotment of Burdens and Benefits.

     Requirements previous to the Revolution.--Lack of
     distributive justice.--Wrongs committed in the allotment of
     social sacrifices and benefits.--Under the ancient Regime.
     --During the Revolution.--Napoleon's personal and public
     motives in the application of distributive justice.--The
     circumstances favorable to him.--His principle of
     apportionment.--He exacts proportion in what he grants.

The other group of needs, dating from long before 1789, involve wants which have survived the
Revolution, because the Revolution has not satisfied these. The first, the most tenacious,
the most profound, the most inveterate, the most frustrated of all is the desire for distributive
justice.--In political society, as in every other society, there are burdens and benefits to
be allotted. When the apportionment of these is unbiased, it takes place according to a very
simple, self-evident principle:

For each individual the costs must be in proportion to the benefits and the benefits to the
costs, so that, for each one, the final expense and the final receipt may exactly compensate
each other, the larger or smaller share of expense being always equal to the larger or smaller
share of profits.

Now, in France, this proportion had been wanting for many centuries; it had even given way
to the inverse proportion. If, towards the middle of the eighteenth century, two sum-totals
of the budget, material and moral, had been calculated, assets on one side and liabilities
on the other:

On the one hand the sum of the apportionments exacted by the State, taxes in ready money, enforced
labor, military service, civil subordination, every species of obedience and subjection, in
short, every sacrifice of leisure, comfort and self-esteem.

On the other hand the sum of dividends distributed by the State of whatever kind or shape,
security for persons and property, use and convenience of roads, delegations of public authority
land liens on the public treasury, dignities, ranks, grades, honors, lucrative salaries, sinecures,
pensions, and the like, that is to say, every gratification belonging to leisure, comfort,
or pride--one might have concluded that the more a man contributed to the receipts the less
would his dividend be, and the greater his dividend the less would he furnish to the general
contribution.

Consequently, every social or local group consisted of two other groups: a majority which suffered
for the benefit of the minority, and a minority which benefited at the expense of the majority,
to such an extent that the privations of the greatest number defrayed the luxury of the small
number. This was the case in all compartments as on every story, owing to the multitude, enormity
and diversity of honorific or useful privileges, owing to the legal prerogatives and effective
preferences by which the court nobles benefited at the expense of the provincial nobility,

* the noblesse at the expense of plebeians,

* the prelates and beneficiaries at the expense of poorly-paid curés and vicars,

* the two highest orders of the clergy at the expense of the third,

* the bourgeoisie at the expense of the people,

* the towns at the expense of the rural districts,

* this or that town or province at the expense of the rest,

* the artisan member of a corporation at the expense of the free workman,

and, in general, the strong, more or less well-to-do, in league and protected, at the expense
of the weak, more or less needy, isolated and unprotected (indéfendus).[3201]

One hundred years before the Revolution a few clairvoyant, open-hearted and generous spirits
had already been aroused by this scandalous disproportion.[3202] Finally, everybody is shocked
by it, for, in each local or social group, nearly everybody is a sufferer, not alone the rural,
the peasant, the artisan, and the plebeian, not alone the citizen, the curé and the bourgeois
notable," but again the gentleman, the grand seignior, the prelate and the King himself.[3203]
Each is denouncing the privileges of all others that affect his interests, each striving to
diminish another's share in the public cake and to keep his own, all concurring in citing natural
right and in claiming or accepting as a principle liberty and equality, but all concurring
in misconception and solely unanimous in destroying and in allowing destruction,[3204] to such
an extent that, at last, the attack being universal and no defense anywhere, social order itself
perishes, entirely owing to the abuses of it.

On the reappearance of the same abuses, the lack of distributive justice in revolutionary France
became still more apparent than in monarchical France. Through a sudden transposition, the
preferred of the former Régime had become the disgraced, while the disgraced of the former
Régime had become the preferred; unjust favor and unjust disfavor still subsisted, but with
a change of object. Before 1789, the nation was subject to an oligarchy of nobles and notables;
after 1789, it became subject to an oligarchy of Jacobins big or little. Before the Revolution,
there were in France three or four hundred thousand privileged individuals, recognizable by
their red heels or silver shoe-buckles. After the Revolution, there were three or four hundred
thousand of the privileged, recognizable by their red caps or their carmagnoles.[3205] The
most privileged of all, the three or four thousand verified nobles, presented at court and
of racial antiquity, who, by virtue of their parchments, rode in the royal carriages, were
succeeded by three or four thousand Jacobins of a fresh sprout, no less verified and accepted,
who, by virtue of their civic patent, sat in the club of the rue Saint-Honoré and the latter
coterie was still more dominant, more exclusive, more partial than the former one. Consequently,
before the Revolution, the burden of taxation was light for the rich or the well-to-do, crushing
for the peasants or the common people; after the Revolution, on the contrary, the peasants,
the common people, paid no more taxes,[3206] while from the rich and the well-to-do the government
took all, not alone their income but their capital.--On the other hand, after having fed the
court of Versailles, the public treasury had to feed the rabble of Paris, still more voracious;
and, from 1793 to 1796, the maintenance of this rabble cost it twenty-five times as much as,
from 1783 to 1786, the maintenance of the court.[3207] Finally, at Paris as at Versailles,
the subordinates who lived on the favored spot, close to the central manger, seized on all
they could get and ate much more than their allowance. Under the ancient Régime, "the ladies
of honor, every time they travel from one royal country-house to another, gain 80 %. on the
cost of the journey," while the queen's first chambermaid gains, over and above her wages,
38,000 francs a year out of the sales of half-burnt candles.[3208] Under the new Régime, in
the distribution of food, "the matadors of the quarter," the patriots of the revolutionary
committees, deduct their portions in advance, and a very ample portion, to the prejudice of
the hungry who await their turn, one taking seven rations and another twenty.[3209] Thus did
the injustice remain; in knocking it over, they had simply made matters worse; and had they
wished to build permanently, now was the time to put an end to it; for, in every social edifice
it introduced an imbalance. Whether the plumb-line deflects right or left is of little consequence;
sooner or later the building falls in, and thus had the French edifice already fallen twice,
the first time in 1789, through imminent bankruptcy and hatred of the ancient Régime, and the
second time in 1799, through an actual bankruptcy and hatred of the Revolution.

An architect like the French Consul is on his guard against a financial, social and moral danger
of this sort. He is aware that, in a well-organized society, there must be neither surcharge
nor discharge, no favors, no exemptions and no exclusions. Moreover, "l'Etat c'est lui;"[3210]
thus is the public interest confounded with his personal interest, and, in the management of
this double interest, his hands are free. Proprietor; and first inhabitant of France in the
fashion of its former kings, he is not obliged and embarrassed as they were by immemorial precedents,
by the concessions they have sanctioned or the rights they have acquired. At the public table
over which he presides and which is his table, he does not, like Louis XV. or Louis XVI., encounter
messmates already installed there, the heirs or purchasers of the seats they occupy,[3211]
extending in long rows from one end of the room to the other, each in his place according to
rank, in an arm-chair, or common chair, or on a footstool, all being the legitimate and recognized
owners of their seats, all of them the King's messmates and all authorized by law, tradition
and custom to eat a free dinner or pay for it at less than cost, to find fault with the dishes
passed around, to reach out for those not near by, to help themselves to what they want and
to carry off the dessert in their pockets. At the new table there are no places secured beforehand.
It is Napoleon himself who arranges the table, and on sitting down, he is the master who has
invited whomsoever he pleases, who assigns to each his portion, who regulates meals as he thinks
best for his own and the common interest, and who introduces into the entire service order,
watchfulness and economy. Instead of a prodigal and negligent grand-seignior, here at last
is a modern administrator who orders supplies, distributes portions and limits consumption,
a contractor who feels his responsibility, a man of business able to calculate. Henceforth,
each is to pay for his portion, estimated according to his ration, and each is to enjoy his
ration according to his quota.--Judge of this by one example: In his own house, customarily
a center of abuses and sinecures, there must be no more parasites. From the grooms and scullions
of his palace up to its grand officials, even to the chamberlains and ladies of honor, all
his domestics, with or without titles, work and perform their daily tasks in person, administrative
or decorative, day or night, at the appointed time, for exact compensation, without pickings
or stealing and without waste. His train and his parades, as pompous as under the old monarchy,
admit of the same ordinary and extraordinary expenses--stables, chapel, food, hunts, journeys,
private theatricals, renewals of plate and furniture, and the maintenance of twelve palaces
or châteaux. While, under Louis XV., it was estimated that "coffee with one roll for each lady
of honor cost the King 2,000 livres a year," and under Louis XVI.," the grand broth night and
day" which Madame Royale, aged two years, sometimes drank and which figured in the annual accounts
at 5201 livres,[3212] under Napoleon "in the pantries, in the kitchens, the smallest dish,
a mere plate of soup, a glass of sugared water, would not have been served without the authorization
or check of grand-marshal Duroc. Every abuse is watched; the gains of each are calculated and
regulated beforehand."[3213] Consequently, this or that journey to Fontainebleau which had
cost Louis XVI. nearly 2 million livres, cost Napoleon, with the same series of fêtes, only
150,000 francs, while the total expense of his civil household, instead of amounting to 25
million livres, remains under 3 million francs.[3214] The pomp is thus equal, but the expense
is ten times less; the new master is able to derive a tenfold return from persons and money,
because he squeezes the full value out of every man he employs and every crown he spends. Nobody
has surpassed him in the art of turning money and men to account, and he is as shrewd, as careful,
as sharp in procuring them as he is in profiting by them.

II. Equitable Taxation.

     The apportionment of charges.--New fiscal principle and new
     fiscal machinery.

In the assignment of public burdens and of public offices Napoleon therefore applies the maxims
of the new system of rights, and his practice is in conformity with the theory. For the social
order, which, according to the philosophers, is the only just one in itself, is at the same
time the most profitable for him: he adds equity because equity is profitable to him.--And
first, in the matter of public burdens, there shall be no more exemptions. To relieve any category
of taxpayers or of conscripts from taxation or from military service would annually impoverish
the treasury by so many millions of crowns, and diminish the army by so many thousands of soldiers.
Napoleon is not the man to deprive himself without reason of either a soldier or a franc; above
all things, he wants his army complete and his treasury full; to supply their deficits he seizes
whatever he can lay his hands on, both taxable material as well as recruitable material. But
all material is limited; if he took too little on the one hand he would be obliged to take
too much on the other; it is impossible to relieve these without oppressing those, and oppression,
especially in the matter of taxation, is what, in 1789, excited the universal jacquerie, perverted
the Revolution, and broke France to pieces.--At present, in the matter of taxation, distributive
justice lays down a universal and fixed law; whatever the property may be, large or small,
and of whatever kind or form, whether lands, buildings, indebtedness, ready money, profits,
incomes or salaries, it is the State which, through its laws, tribunals, police, gendarmes
and army, preserves it from ever ready aggression within and without; the State guarantees,
procures and ensures the enjoyment of it. Consequently, property of every species owes the
State its premium of assurance, so many centimes on the franc. The quality, the fortune, the
age or the sex of the owner is of little importance; each franc assured, no matter in whose
hands, must pay the same number of centimes, not one too much, not one too little.--Such is
the new principle. To announce it is easy enough; all that is necessary is to combine speculative
ideas, and any Academy can do that. The National Assembly of 1789 had proclaimed it with the
rattling of drums, but merely as a right and with no practical effect. Napoleon turns it into
a reality, and henceforth the ideal rule is applied as strictly as is possible with human material,
thanks to two pieces of fiscal machinery of a new type, superior of their kind, and which,
compared with those of the ancient Régime, or with those of the Revolution, are masterpieces.

III. Formation of Honest, Efficient Tax Collectors

     Direct real and personal taxation.--In what respect the new
     machinery is superior to the old.--Full and quick returns.--
     Relief to taxpayers.--Greater relief to the poor workman and
     small farmer.

The collection of a direct tax is a surgical operation performed on the taxpayer, one which
removes a piece of his substance: he suffers on account of this and submits to it only because
he is obliged to. If the operation is performed on him by other hands he submits to it willingly
or not. But that he should do it himself, spontaneously and with his own hands, it is not to
be thought of. On the other hand, the collection of a direct tax according to the prescriptions
of distributive justice, is a subjection of each taxpayer to an amputation proportionate to
his bulk or, at least, to his surface; this requires delicate calculation and is not to be
entrusted to the patients themselves, for, not only are they surgical novices and poor calculators,
but, again, they are interested in calculating falsely. They have been ordered to assess their
group with a certain total weight of human substance, and to apportion to each individual in
their group the lighter or heavier portion he must provide. Everyone will soon understand that,
the more that is cut from the others, the less will be required of him. And as each is more
sensitive to his own suffering, although moderate, than to another's suffering, even excessive,
each, therefore, be his neighbor little or big, is inclined, in order to unjustly diminish
his own sacrifice by an ounce, to add a pound unjustly to that of his neighbor.

Up to this time, in the construction of the fiscal machine, nobody knew or had been disposed
to take into account such natural and powerful sentiments; through negligence or through optimism,
the taxpayer had been introduced into the mechanism in the quality of first agent; before 1789,
in the quality of a responsible and constrained agent; after 1789, in the quality of a voluntary
and philanthropic agent. Hence, before 1789, the machine had proved mischievous, and after
1789, impotent; before 1789, its working had been almost fatal,[3215] and after 1789 its returns
scarcely amounted to anything.[3216] Finally, Napoleon establishes independent, special and
competent operators, enlightened by local informers, but withdrawn from local influences. These
are appointed, paid and supported by the central government, forced to act impartially by the
appeal of the taxpayer to the council of the prefecture, and forced to keep correct accounts
by the final auditing of a special court (cour des comptes). The are kept interested, through
the security they have given as well as by commissions, in the integral recovery of unpaid
arrears and in the prompt returns of collected taxes. All, assessors, auditors, directors,
inspectors and collectors, being good accountants, are watched by good accountants, kept to
their duties by fear, and made aware that embezzlements, lucrative under the Directory,[3217]
are punished under the Consulate.[3218] They are soon led to consider necessity a virtue, to
pride themselves inwardly on compulsory rectitude, to imagine that they have a conscience and
hence to acquiring one, in short, to voluntarily imposing on themselves probity and exactitude
through amour-propre and honorable scruples.--For the first time in ten years lists of taxes
are prepared and their collection begun at the beginning of the year.[3219] Previous to 1789,
the taxpayer was always in arrears, while the treasury received only three-fifths of that which
was due in the current year.[3220] After 1800, direct taxes are nearly always fully returned
before the end of the current year, and half a century later, the taxpayers, instead of being
in arrears, are often in advance.[3221] To do this work required, before 1789, about 200,000
collectors, besides the administrative corps,[3222] occupied one half of their time for two
successive years in running from door to door, miserable and detested, ruined by their ruinous
office, fleecers and the fleeced, and always escorted by bailiffs and constables. Since 1800,
from five thousand to six thousand collectors, and other fiscal agents, honorable and respected,
have only to do their office-work at home and make regular rounds on given days, in order to
collect more than double the amount without any vexation and using very little constraint.
Before 1780, direct taxation brought in about 170 millions;[3223] after the year XI, it brought
in 360 millions.[3224] By the same measure, an extraordinary counter-measure, the taxable party,
especially the peasant-proprietor, the small farmer with nobody to protect him, diametrically
opposite to the privileged class, the drudge of the monarchy, is relieved of three-fourths
of his immemorial burden.[3225] At first, through the abolition of tithes and of feudal privileges,
he gets back one-quarter of his net income, that quarter which he paid to the seignior and
to the clergy; next, through the application of direct taxation to all lands and to all persons,
his quota is reduced one-half. Before 1789, he paid, on 100 francs net income, 14 to the seignior,
14 to the clergy, 53 to the State, and kept only 18 or 19 for himself. After 1800, he pays
nothing out of 100 francs of income to the seignior or to the clergy; he pays but little to
the State, only 21 francs to the commune and department, and keeps 79 francs in his pocket.[3226]

