Two years passed over, and the king died fighting against the Fer Bolg; and the poets and the
men of law ruled in the name of the child, but looked to see him become the master himself
before long, for no one had seen so wise a child, and tales of his endless questions about
the household of the gods and the making of the world went hither and thither among the wicker
houses of the poor. Everything had been well but for a miracle that began to trouble all men;
and all women, who, indeed, talked of it without ceasing. The feathers of the grey hawk had
begun to grow in the child's hair, and though, his nurse cut them continually, in but a little
while they would be more numerous than ever. This had not been a matter of great moment, for
miracles were a little thing in those days, but for an ancient law of Eri that none who had
any blemish of body could sit upon the throne; and as a grey hawk was a wild thing of the air
which had never sat at the board, or listened to the songs of the poets in the light of the
fire, it was not possible to think of one in whose hair its feathers grew as other than marred
and blasted; nor could the people separate from their admiration of the wisdom that grew in
him a horror as at one of unhuman blood. Yet all were resolved that he should reign, for they
had suffered much from foolish kings and their own disorders, and moreover they desired to
watch out the spectacle of his days; and no one had any other fear but that his great wisdom
might bid him obey the law, and call some other, who had but a common mind, to reign in his stead.

When the child was seven years old the poets and the men of law were called together by the
chief poet, and all these matters weighed and considered. The child had already seen that those
about him had hair only, and, though they had told him that they too had had feathers but had
lost them because of a sin committed by their forefathers, they knew that he would learn the
truth when he began to wander into the country round about. After much consideration they decreed
a new law commanding every one upon pain of death to mingle artificially the feathers of the
grey hawk into his hair; and they sent men with nets and slings and bows into the countries
round about to gather a sufficiency of feathers. They decreed also that any who told the truth
to the child should be flung from a cliff into the sea.

The years passed, and the child grew from childhood into boyhood and from boyhood into manhood,
and from being curious about all things he became busy with strange and subtle thoughts which
came to him in dreams, and with distinctions between things long held the same and with the
resemblance of things long held different. Multitudes came from other lands to see him and
to ask his counsel, but there were guards set at the frontiers, who compelled all that came
to wear the feathers of the grey hawk in their hair. While they listened to him his words seemed
to make all darkness light and filled their hearts like music; but, alas, when they returned
to their own lands his words seemed far off, and what they could remember too strange and subtle
to help them to live out their hasty days. A number indeed did live differently afterwards,
but their new life was less excellent than the old: some among them had long served a good
cause, but when they heard him praise it and their labour, they returned to their own lands
to find what they had loved less lovable and their arm lighter in the battle, for he had taught
them how little a hair divides the false and true; others, again, who had served no cause,
but wrought in peace the welfare of their own households, when he had expounded the meaning
of their purpose, found their bones softer and their will less ready for toil, for he had shown
them greater purposes; and numbers of the young, when they had heard him upon all these things,
remembered certain words that became like a fire in their hearts, and made all kindly joys
and traffic between man and man as nothing, and went different ways, but all into vague regret.

When any asked him concerning the common things of life; disputes about the mear of a territory,
or about the straying of cattle, or about the penalty of blood; he would turn to those nearest
him for advice; but this was held to be from courtesy, for none knew that these matters were
hidden from him by thoughts and dreams that filled his mind like the marching and counter-marching
of armies. Far less could any know that his heart wandered lost amid throngs of overcoming
thoughts and dreams, shuddering at its own consuming solitude.

Among those who came to look at him and to listen to him was the daughter of a little king
who lived a great way off; and when he saw her he loved, for she was beautiful, with a strange
and pale beauty unlike the women of his land; but Dana, the great mother, had decreed her a
heart that was but as the heart of others, and when she considered the mystery of the hawk
feathers she was troubled with a great horror. He called her to him when the assembly was over
and told her of her beauty, and praised her simply and frankly as though she were a fable of
the bards; and he asked her humbly to give him her love, for he was only subtle in his dreams.
Overwhelmed with his greatness, she half consented, and yet half refused, for she longed to
marry some warrior who could carry her over a mountain in his arms. Day by day the king gave
her gifts; cups with ears of gold and findrinny wrought by the craftsmen of distant lands;
cloth from over sea, which, though woven with curious figures, seemed to her less beautiful
than the bright cloth of her own country; and still she was ever between a smile and a frown;
between yielding and withholding. He laid down his wisdom at her feet, and told how the heroes
when they die return to the world and begin their labour anew; how the kind and mirthful Men
of Dea drove out the huge and gloomy and misshapen People from Under the Sea; and a multitude
of things that even the Sidhe have forgotten, either because they happened so long ago or because
they have not time to think of them; and still she half refused, and still he hoped, because
he could not believe that a beauty so much like wisdom could hide a common heart.

There was a tall young man in the dun who had yellow hair, and was skilled in wrestling and
in the training of horses; and one day when the king walked in the orchard, which was between
the foss and the forest, he heard his voice among the salley bushes which hid the waters of
the foss. 'My blossom,' it said, 'I hate them for making you weave these dingy feathers into
your beautiful hair, and all that the bird of prey upon the throne may sleep easy o' nights';
and then the low, musical voice he loved answered: 'My hair is not beautiful like yours; and
now that I have plucked the feathers out of your hair I will put my hands through it, thus,
and thus, and thus; for it casts no shadow of terror and darkness upon my heart.' Then the
king remembered many things that he had forgotten without understanding them, doubtful words
of his poets and his men of law, doubts that he had reasoned away, his own continual solitude;
and he called to the lovers in a trembling voice. They came from among the salley bushes and
threw themselves at his feet and prayed for pardon, and he stooped down and plucked the feathers
out of the hair of the woman and then turned away towards the dun without a word. He strode
into the hall of assembly, and having gathered his poets and his men of law about him, stood
upon the dais and spoke in a loud, clear voice: 'Men of law, why did you make me sin against
the laws of Eri? Men of verse, why did you make me sin against the secrecy of wisdom, for law
was made by man for the welfare of man, but wisdom the gods have made, and no man shall live
by its light, for it and the hail and the rain and the thunder follow a way that is deadly
to mortal things? Men of law and men of verse, live according to your kind, and call Eocha
of the Hasty Mind to reign over you, for I set out to find my kindred.' He then came down among
them, and drew out of the hair of first one and then another the feathers of the grey hawk,
and, having scattered them over the rushes upon the floor, passed out, and none dared to follow
him, for his eyes gleamed like the eyes of the birds of prey; and no man saw him again or heard
his voice. Some believed that he found his eternal abode among the demons, and some that he
dwelt henceforth with the dark and dreadful goddesses, who sit all night about the pools in
the forest watching the constellations rising and setting in those desolate mirrors.

THE HEART OF THE SPRING.

A very old man, whose face was almost as fleshless as the foot of a bird, sat meditating upon
the rocky shore of the flat and hazel- covered isle which fills the widest part of the Lough
Gill. A russet- faced boy of seventeen years sat by his side, watching the swallows dipping
for flies in the still water. The old man was dressed in threadbare blue velvet, and the boy
wore a frieze coat and a blue cap, and had about his neck a rosary of blue beads. Behind the
two, and half hidden by trees, was a little monastery. It had been burned down a long while
before by sacrilegious men of the Queen's party, but had been roofed anew with rushes by the
boy, that the old man might find shelter in his last days. He had not set his spade, however,
into the garden about it, and the lilies and the roses of the monks had spread out until their
confused luxuriancy met and mingled with the narrowing circle of the fern. Beyond the lilies
and the roses the ferns were so deep that a child walking among them would be hidden from sight,
even though he stood upon his toes; and beyond the fern rose many hazels and small oak trees.

'Master,' said the boy, 'this long fasting, and the labour of beckoning after nightfall with
your rod of quicken wood to the beings who dwell in the waters and among the hazels and oak-trees,
is too much for your strength. Rest from all this labour for a little, for your hand seemed
more heavy upon my shoulder and your feet less steady under you to-day than I have known them.
Men say that you are older than the eagles, and yet you will not seek the rest that belongs
to age.' He spoke in an eager, impulsive way, as though his heart were in the words and thoughts
of the moment; and the old man answered slowly and deliberately, as though his heart were in
distant days and distant deeds.

'I will tell you why I have not been able to rest,' he said. 'It is right that you should know,
for you have served me faithfully these five years and more, and even with affection, taking
away thereby a little of the doom of loneliness which always falls upon the wise. Now, too,
that the end of my labour and the triumph of my hopes is at hand, it is the more needful for
you to have this knowledge.'

'Master, do not think that I would question you. It is for me to keep the fire alight, and
the thatch close against the rain, and strong, lest the wind blow it among the trees; and it
is for me to take the heavy books from the shelves, and to lift from its corner the great painted
roll with the names of the Sidhe, and to possess the while an incurious and reverent heart,
for right well I know that God has made out of His abundance a separate wisdom for everything
which lives, and to do these things is my wisdom.'

'You are afraid,' said the old man, and his eyes shone with a momentary anger.

