As there was nothing to wait for, happy people, it was agreed by all parties that the wedding
should take place in August, which kept me rather late in town; it was hardly worth going away,
to come back again, as back again I had to come, as Betty and Hugh were coming to stay with
me for a night on their way to Thorpshire. It is not astonishing, perhaps, that two children,
modern children in particular, and a nursery-maid can fill to overflowing a small London house,
but it is astonishing how demoralizing a thing it is. A visiting child to people who have children
of their own means nothing, beyond the changing from one room to another of some particular
child, or the putting up of an extra bed, or perhaps the joy supreme to some child of sleeping
in something that is not a real bed. We all remember that joy. Except for that one child, it
is an every-day thing and fraught with no particular excitement. The servants, for instance,
in a house where children are an every-day thing, remain quite calm, if good tempered, when
a visiting child is expected, and the kitchen-maid, no doubt, cleans the doorstep as usual,
and, no doubt, takes in the milk. But this I know, that if I had happened to possess such a
thing when Betty and Hugh were coming to stay, my doorstep would never have been cleaned. For
once I was glad that I depended on the services of a very small boy, who thinks he cleans it.
Staid and level-headed as were my maids, they answered no bells that morning, which was perhaps
natural, as I believe none ring up to the nursery. Of course they had to be interested in Nannie's
arrangements.

It was a hot August day, I remember, and I sat at the window writing, or pretending to write.
As a matter of fact, I was listening. Among other things to the "Austrian Anthem," played over
and over again, first right hand, then left, then both, but not together, by, I guessed, a
child about ten years old, next door.

Poor, hot child, how I pitied her.

"Never mind," I thought, "take courage, seaside time is coming. Within a few days, no doubt,
an omnibus will come to the door empty, to go away full, filled with luggage, crowned by a
perambulator and a baby's bath!" It is only a woman who can travel with a perambulator and
a bath; they are the epitome of motherhood. A father is always too busy to go by that particular
train.

I heard the twitter of sparrows, the jingle of bells, the hooting of a siren, or was it my
neighbor singing "A rose I gave to you"? of course it was,--the rumble of a post-office van,
and the cry of children's voices, rather peevish voices, poor mites! Never mind, seaside time
is coming.

Listening more intently, I beard in the far distance, yet distinct, the cries of the children
who ought to go to the seaside, children who have never been to the seaside, never paddled,
never built castles, never caught crabs, never seen sea-anemones or starfish, children whose
faces are wan and whose mothers are too tired to be kind to them. It is often that, I am sure,
too tired to be kind!

Listening again, I heard faintly--it is not with the ears that one hears these things--the
unuttered complaints of those tired mothers, worn-out women, despairing men, and the singing,
in dark alleys and in hot areas, of caged birds. There are thousands of caged creatures, other
than birds, in London in August, men, women, and children. Hats off, then, to the little feathered
Christians who sing for their fellow-prisoners a paean of praise. It is perhaps easier to sing
to the patch of blue sky when you do not know that it will be hidden behind clouds tomorrow.

"They've come," cried Nannie.

"O Aunt Woggles!" said Hugh, "I've brought you a lovely caterpillar wrapped up in grass."

"And I've brought you one of my very own bantam eggs," said Betty. "I've kept it ever so long
for you."

Then it will be bad, said Hugh.

"Oh, not so long as to be bad," said Betty. "You will eat it, won't you, Aunt Woggles?"

Nannie was radiantly happy at tea that day, but I think her happiness was supreme when she
fetched me later to look at the children asleep. We stole into Betty's room together, and Nannie
shaded the candle as she held it, for me to look at what is assuredly the loveliest thing on
God's earth--a sleeping child.

Nannie, in an eloquent silence, pointed to the chair on which lay Betty's clean clothes, folded
ready for the morning, and to her hairy horse which she had brought for company. Her blue slippers
were beside the bed. Then we went into Hugh's room. He, too, lay peaceful and beautiful, his
clothes folded ready for the morning, and his pistol beside him in case he was "attacked."
His slippers were red, and Nannie, at the sight of them, cried quietly. To some happy mothers
a child's slippers mean nothing more than size two or three, and serve only to remind her how
quickly children grow out of things!

But to Nannie they brought back memories of years of happiness, through which little feet,
in just the same sort of slippers, had pattered, stumbling here, falling there, picked up,
and guided by her. But she thought most of the little feet in just that sort of slippers, that
had stopped still forever early on their life's journey. It is the voices that are hushed that
call most distinctly, the footsteps that stop that are most carefully traced. It is the children
who have gone that stand and beckon!

Chapter XI

Pauline's wedding-day dawned gloriously bright and beautiful. The whole village was up and
doing, very early, putting the finishing touches to the decorations.

The widower shoemaker and his children, and the woman who washed them--the children, I mean--on
Saturdays, had all combined to erect a triumphal arch of, great splendor, and the woman showed
such sensibility in the choice of mottoes, and such a nice appreciation of the joys of matrimony,
together with a decided leaning towards the bridegroom's side of the arch, that the shoemaker
suggested that she should suit her actions to her words--that was how he expressed it--and
marry him, which she agreed to do. But she afterwards explained, in breaking the news to her
friends, that they could have knocked her down with a leaf! Whether this was due to the weakened
state of her heart, or to her precarious position on the ladder, I do not know.

Everybody and everything was in a bustle, with the exception of Aunt Cecilia, who sat through
it all as calm and as beautiful as ever. I felt fair strange things with first, that it was there
bad anything i had ever seen, so bad home, that it were a happy, noisy family, there one of party,
there two, everything at piano, everybody laughing, talking, but
life, and you should always to deny a troop, betty innumerable friends.

He would have to sit everything of about half a M. a talk or local matters in it, but everything
to that he departed he to quarters, but i remained with people.
 She does not think it right to play in the morning, but sometimes,
being unable to withstand the temptation of so doing, she plays it in an empty drawer of her
writing-table, and if she hears any one coming, she can close the drawer!

Her greatest interest in life, next to her husband and children, is her garden and other people's
gardens. In fact, she looks at life generally from a gardening point of view, and is apt to
regard men as gardeners, possible gardeners, or gardeners wasted. As gardeners they have their
very distinct use, and as such deserve every consideration, but if a man will not till the
soil, he is a cumberer thereof. She, at least, inclines that way in thought. Life, she says,
is a garden, children the flowers, parents the gardeners. "If we treated children as we do
roses, they would be far happier. We don't call roses naughty when they grow badly and refuse
to flower as they ought to; we blame the gardeners or the soil."

"But, Aunt Cecilia," I say, "one can recommend an unsatisfactory gardener to a friend, but
one can't so dispose of unsatisfactory parents."

"You must educate them, dear."

Now all this sounds very convincing when said by Aunt Cecilia, because, for one thing, she
says it very charmingly, and for another, she is still a very beautiful woman. She is too fond,
perhaps, of extinguishing her beauty under a large mushroom hat, and is given to bending too
much over herbaceous borders, and so hiding her beautiful face. But I dare say the flowers
love to look at it, and to see mirrored in it their own loveliness.

Aunt Cecilia wears a bonnet sometimes, and thereby hangs a tale. So few aunts wear a bonnet
nowadays that the fact of one doing so is almost worth chronicling. She doesn't wear it very
often, only at the christenings of the head gardener's babies. From a christening point of
view that is very often, but from a bonnet point of view I suppose it might be called seldom--once
a year? I know that bonnet well, because it has been sent to me often for renovation. On one
particular occasion it arrived in a cardboard box. On the top of the bonnet was a bunch of
flowers, beautiful enough to make any bonnet accompanying it welcome, in whatever state of
dilapidation. Aunt Cecilia has a knack of sending just the right sort of flowers, and they
always bring a message, which everybody's flowers don't do.

The bonnet I renovated to the best of my ability and sent it back. In the course of a few days
I received a slightly agitated note from Aunt Cecilia. "It doesn't suit me, dearest, and after
all the trouble you have taken!"

Knowing Aunt Cecilia, I wrote back, "Did you try it on in bed with your hair down?"

She answered by return, "Dearest, I did! It really suits me very well now that I have tried
it on in my right mind. I am going to wear it at the last little Shrub's christening, this
afternoon. It is just in time."

When David and Diana were singled out by night for the particular attention of a burglar, Aunt
Cecilia wrote to sympathize and said, "I am so thankful, dearest, David did not meet the poor,
misguided man!"

May we all be judged as tenderly!

This is a digression, but it perhaps explains Pauline and Pauline's wedding, and the joy with
which all the people in the village entered into it.

The strangest people kept on arriving the morning of the wedding. It was verily a gathering
of the halt, the lame, and the blind--all friends of Pauline's. Whenever Uncle Jim was particularly
overcome, it was sure to mean that some old soldier, officer or otherwise, had turned up, who
had served with him in some part of the world, long before Pauline was born. Aunt Cecilia welcomed
them all in her inimitable manner, which made each one feel that he was the one and most particularly
honored guest. For all her apparent absent-mindedness, she knew exactly who belonged to Mrs.
Bunce's department and who not.

Mrs. Bunce, the old housekeeper, was very busy, every button doing its duty! A wedding didn't
come her way every day. The sisters-in-law, of course, came with their belongings.

Zerlina was distressed at the nature of many of the presents; and wondered if Pauline would
have enough spare rooms to put them in; which showed how little she knew her. If Pauline had
told her that she valued the alabaster greyhound under a glass case, subscribed for by the
old men and women in the village, over seventy, Zerlina wouldn't have believed her any more
than did old Mrs. Barker when Diana told her Sara was named after a dear old housemaid and
not after the Duchess.

Betty and Hugh were among the bridesmaids and pages, and Hugh shocked Betty very much by saying,
in the middle of the service "When may I play with my girl?"

Some one described Uncle Jim as looking like one of the Apostles, and Aunt Cecilia certainly
looked like a saint. Ought I, by the way, to bracket an apostle and a saint? But nothing was
so wonderful or so beautiful as the expression on Pauline's face. I am sure that, as she walked
up the aisle, she was oblivious to everything and every one except God and Dick.

It is assuredly a great responsibility for a man to accept such a love as hers.

A wedding is nearly always a choky thing, and Pauline's was particularly so. As she left the
church, she stopped in the churchyard to speak to her friends, and for one old woman she waited
to let her feel her dress.

"Is it my jewels you want to feel, Anne?" she said, as the old hands tremblingly passed over
her bodice. "I have on no jewels."

The old hands went up to Pauline's face and gently and reverently touched it. "God bless her
happy face," said the old woman. "I had to know for sure." Pauline kissed the old fingers gently.
We all knew for sure, but then we had eyes to see.

Pauline went away in the afternoon, and the villagers danced far into the evening, and there
was revelry in the park by night.

After Pauline and Dick had gone away, I walked across the park to the post office to send a
telegram to Julia, who was kept at home by illness, to her very great disappointment. There
is nothing she adores like a wedding. I was glad to escape for a few minutes. I wrote out the
telegram and handed it to the postmaster, who, reading it, said, I'm glad it went off so well.
"There's nobody what wouldn't wish her well." Then he counted the words. "Julia Westby?" he
said. "Um-um-um-um. Eleven, miss. You might as well give her the title." I laughed and added,
or rather he added, the "Lady."

Julia is not a sister-in-law really, but she likes to call herself so, since she might have
been one, having been for one ecstatic week in Archie's life engaged to him. She is wont now
to lay her hand on his head, in public, for choice, and say, "He was almost mine." She says
she still loves him as a friend. "But, you see, dearest Betty, there is everything that is
delightful in the relationship of a poor friend, but a poor husband! Engineering has still lies
its old unselfish mind-- the defence from the burghers, a fight who, to the alarm, clanged out
danger, that piercing of the eyry to the lane, and rushing the antique citizens bringing herself
on the strong central square. William is so delightfully rich, but he is not
an Archie, of course! But then husbands are not supposed to be."

Hugh, going to bed, wondered if the angels would bring Pauline a baby that night, a darling
little baby!

And Betty said, in her great wisdom, "Oh, darling, I think it would be too exciting for Pauline
to be married and have a baby all on one day."

Then Hugh suggested the glorious possibility of the angels bringing it to Fullfield, whereupon
Hyacinth said that was not at all likely, because she knew that when a baby was born, it was
usual for one or other parent to be present!

We stayed for a few days at Fullfield, and Hugh and Betty enjoyed themselves immensely. Hyacinth
said it was just like staying for a week at the pantomime, and Betty said, with a deep sigh,
that it was much nicer, a billion times nicer.

Pauline's brother Jack most nearly resembled any one in a pantomime, and the children loved
him. One day at lunch he went to the side-table to fetch a potato in its jacket, and coming
back he laid it on Uncle Jim's slightly bald head and said, "Am I feverish, father?"

"It Good Heavens, my boy!" exclaimed Uncle Jim; "you must be in an awful state!"

