His heart was in Babylonia rather than in the conquests he had made. The wealth he had acquired
by them was devoted to the restoration of the temples and cities of his country, and, above
all, to making Babylon one of the wonders of the world. The temples of Merodach and Nebo were
rebuilt with lavish magnificence, the city was surrounded with impregnable fortifications,
a sumptuous palace was erected for the king, and the bed of the Euphrates was lined with brick
and furnished with quays. Gardens were planted on the top of arched terraces, and the whole
eastern world poured out its treasures at the feet of "the great king." His inscriptions, however,
breathe a singular spirit of humility and piety, and we can understand from them the friendship
that existed between the prophet Jeremiah and himself. All he had done is ascribed to Bel-Merodach,
whose creation he was and who had given him the sovereignty over mankind.

He was succeeded in B.C. 562 by his son Evil-Merodach, who had a short and inglorious reign
of only two years. Then the throne was usurped by Nergal-sharezer, who had married a daughter
of Nebuchadrezzar, and was in high favour with the priests. He died in B.C. 556, leaving a
child, whom the priestly chroniclers accuse of impiety towards the gods, and who was murdered
three months after his accession. Then Nabu-nahid or Nabonidos, the son of Nabu-balasu-iqbi,
another nominee of the priesthood, was placed on the throne. He was unrelated to the royal
family, but proved to be a man of some energy and a zealous antiquarian. He caused excavations
to be made in the various temples of Babylonia, in order to discover the memorial-stones of
their founders and verify the history of them that had been handed down. But he offended local
interests by endeavouring to centralise the religious worship of the country at Babylon, in
the sanctuary of Bel-Merodach, as Hezekiah had done in the case of Judah. The images of the
gods were removed from the shrines in which they had stood from time immemorial, and the local
priesthoods attached to them were absorbed in that of the capital. The result was the rise
of a powerful party opposed to the king, and a spirit of disaffection which the gifts showered
upon the temples of Babylon and a few other large cities were unable to allay. The standing
army, however, under the command of the king's son, Belshazzar, prevented this spirit from
showing itself in action.

But a new power was growing steadily in the East. The larger part of Elam, which went by the
name of Anzan, had been seized by the Persians in the closing days of the Assyrian empire,
and a line of kings of Persian origin had taken the place of the old sovereigns of Shushan.
Cyrus II., who was still but a youth, was now on the throne of Anzan, and, like his predecessors,
acknowledged as his liege-lord the Scythian king of Ekbatana, Istuvegu or Astyages. His first
act was to defeat and dethrone his suzerain, in B.C. 549, and so make himself master of Media.
A year or two later he obtained possession of Persia, and a war with Lydia in B.C. 545 led
to the conquest of Asia Minor. Nabonidos had doubtless looked on with satisfaction while the
Scythian power was being overthrown, and had taken advantage of its fall to rebuild the temple
of the Moon-god at Harran, which had been destroyed by the Scythians fifty-four years before.
But his eyes were opened by the conquest of his ally the King of Lydia, and he accordingly
began to prepare for a war which he saw was inevitable. The camp was fixed near Sippara, towards
the northern boundary of Babylonia, and every effort was made to put the country into a state
of defence.

Cyrus, however, was assisted by the disaffected party in Babylonia itself, amongst whose members
must doubtless be included the Jewish exiles. In B.C. 538 a revolt broke out in the south,
in the old district of the Chaldæans, and Cyrus took advantage of it to march into the country.
The Babylonian army moved northward to meet him, but was utterly defeated and dispersed at
Opis in the beginning of Tammuz, or June, and a few days later Sippara surrendered to the conqueror.
Gobryas, the governor of Kurdistan, was then sent to Babylon, which also opened its gates "without
fighting," and Nabonidos, who had concealed himself, was taken prisoner. The daily services
in the temples as well as the ordinary business of the city proceeded as usual, and on the
3rd of Marchesvan Cyrus himself arrived and proclaimed a general amnesty, which was communicated
by Gobryas to "all the province of Babylon," of which he had been made the prefect. Shortly
afterwards, the wife--or, according to another reading, the son--of Nabonidos died; public
lamentations were made for her, and Kambyses, the son of Cyrus, conducted the funeral in one
of the Babylonian temples. Cyrus now took the title of "King of Babylon," and associated Kambyses
with himself in the government. Conquest had proved his title to the crown, and the priests
and god of Babylon hastened to confirm it. Cyrus on his side claimed to be the legitimate descendant
of the ancient Babylonian kings, a true representative of the ancient stock, who had avenged
the injuries of Bel-Merodach and his brother-gods upon Nabonidos, and who professed to be their
devoted worshipper. Offerings to ten times the usual amount were bestowed on the Babylonian
temples, and the favour of the Babylonian priesthood was secured. The images which Nabonidos
had sacrilegiously removed from their shrines were restored to their old homes, and the captive
populations in Babylonia were allowed to return to their native soil. The policy of transportation
had proved a failure; in time of invasion the exiles had been a source of danger to the government,
and not of safety.

Each people was permitted to carry back with it its ancestral gods. The Jews alone had no images
to take; the sacred vessels of the temple of Jerusalem were accordingly given to them. It was
a faithful remnant that returned to the land of their fathers, consisting mostly of priests
and Levites, determined henceforward to obey strictly the laws of their God, and full of gratitude
to their deliverer. In Jerusalem Cyrus thus had a colony whose loyalty to himself and his successors
could be trusted, and who would form, as it were, an outpost against attacks on the side of Egypt.

As long as Cyrus and his son Kambyses lived Babylonia also was tranquil. They flattered the
religious and political prejudices of their Babylonian subjects, and the priesthood saw in
them the successors of a Sargon of Akkad. But with the death of Kambyses came a change. The
new rulers of the empire of Cyrus were Persians, proud of their nationality and zealous for
their Zoroastrian faith. They had no reverence for Bel, no belief in the claim of Babylon to
confer a title of legitimacy on the sovereign of western Asia. The Babylonian priesthood chafed,
the Babylonian people broke into revolt. In October B.C. 521 a pretender appeared who took
the name of Nebuchadrezzar II., and reigned for nearly a year. But after two defeats in the
field, he was captured in Babylon by Darius and put to death in August 520. Once more, in B.C.
514, another revolt took place under a second pretender to the name of "Nebuchadrezzar the
son of Nabonidos." The strong walls of Babylon resisted the Persian army for more than a year,
and the city was at last taken by stratagem. The walls were partially destroyed, but this did
not prevent a third rebellion in the reign of Xerxes, while the Persian monarch was absent
in Greece. On this occasion, however, it was soon crushed, and Ê-Sagila, the temple of Bel,
was laid in ruins. But a later generation restored once more the ancient sanctuary of Merodach,
at all events in part, and services in honour of Bel continued to be held there down to the
time when Babylon was superseded by the Greek town of Seleucia, and the city of Nebuchadrezzar
became a waste of shapeless mounds.

Babylonian religion was a mixture of Sumerian and Semitic elements. The primitive Sumerian
had believed in a sort of animism. Each object had its zi or "spirit," like men and beasts;
the zi gave it its personality, and endowed it, as it were, with vital force. The zi corresponded
with the ka or "double" of the Egyptians, which accompanied like a shadow all things in heaven
and earth. The gods themselves had each his zi; it was this alone that made them permanent
and personal. With such a form of religion there could be neither deities nor priests in the
usual sense of the words. The place of the priest was taken by the sorcerer, who knew the spells
that could avert the malevolence of the "spirits" or bring down their blessings upon mankind.

With the progress of civilisation, certain of the "spirits" emerged above the rest, and became
veritable gods. The "spirit" of heaven became Ana of Erech, the Sky-god; the "spirit" of earth
passed into El-lil of Nippur; and the "spirit" of the deep into Ea of Eridu. The change was
hastened by contact with the Semite. The Semite brought with him a new religious conception.
He believed in a god who revealed himself in the sun, and whom he addressed as Baal or "Lord."
By the side of Baal stood his colourless reflection, the goddess Baalath, who owed her existence
partly to the feminine gender possessed by the Semitic languages, partly to the analogy of
the human family. But the Baalim were as multitudinous as their worshippers and the high-places
whereon they were adored; there was little difficulty, therefore, in identifying the gods and
"spirits" of Sumer with the local Baals of the Semitic creed.

El-lil became Bel of Nippur, Asari or Merodach Bel of Babylon. But in taking a Semitic form,
the Sumerian divinities did not lose their old attributes. Bel of Nippur remained the lord
of the ghost-world, Bel-Merodach the god who "raises the dead to life" and "does good to man."
Moreover, in one important point the Semite borrowed from the Sumerian. The goddess Istar retained
her independent position among the crowd of colourless female deities. Originally the "spirit"
of the evening-star, she had become a goddess, and in the Sumerian world the goddess was the
equal of the god. It is a proof of the influence of the Sumerian element in the Babylonian
population, that this conception of the goddess was never forgotten in Babylonia; it was only
when Babylonian culture was handed on to the Semitic nations of the west that Istar became
either the male Atthar of southern Arabia and Moab, or the emasculated Ashtoreth of Canaan.

The official religion of Babylonia was thus the Baal-worship of the Semites engrafted on the
animism of the Sumerians. It was further modified by the introduction of star-worship. How
far this went back to a belief in the "spirits" of the stars, or whether it had a Semitic origin,
we do not know; but it is significant that the cuneiform character which denotes "a god" is
a picture of a star, and that the Babylonians were from the first a nation of star-gazers.
In the astro-theology of a later date the gods of the pantheon were identified with the chief
stars of the firmament, but the system was purely artificial, and must have been the invention
of the priests.

