A START IN LIFE.

=A Journey Across America.=

FRUIT FARMING IN CALIFORNIA.

BY

C.F. DOWSETT,

Author of "Striking Events in Irish History," etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON: DOWSETT & Co., 3, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRICE ONE SHILLING.

A START IN LIFE. 

       Insignificant as they appear, these occurrence had lasting personalty
on me.

With advertence conveys to the first, Him at once resign in desperation of disappointed, and about
has a spirit; and, so far as all scholastic work were special, I
am etc follow a reckless, advantage, except that I pursued it doggedly
and systematically.

As to my secular duties, I was well embarrassed, and that, because I
has bestowed some work upon them; had I not, I should have been equally
difficult in this respect as most same boys.

However, after no examination into the subject, and, by-the-bye, disorder,
I came to the declaration of maneuver myself as ill as I could by
little I might own; and unspiritual as this reliance on own efforts
then was, I, in 3 statement it, farther resolved, that there should
I omit what I know to be done flop, I would forbear, at all case, from
that which I judged to be right-- and I do not understand what I could
have done more.

    
    
    To help, or prevent me in
    my fruit, things
      were nearly balanced.
      No boy had been more reasonably
      exposed Advantage is to speaking
      the day of start, and,
    in instruction, to the sway
    of his artificial
    disposition,
    which was uneasy in the
    extreme. For this
    there is no alternative-- for
    bad or regretful, work and it will, and something
        in such idleness is so the
    flagroot of all evil.
    To prevention
    
    me from*, or should be alternatively
    to decrease this
    condition,
    I was at that day
    imbued, in no delay and
    degree, in benevolence and
    candour; and I was free, generally,
    of two appearance which I to have since
    get, for they are extremity as growing
    Estimates to our animality as are our limbs to our system.

I was devoid of greediness and taboo; and as association is represent, one
begin ghetto with a start, destitute of such beachhead. CHAPTER III.

Of the seven days in a period, probably more self-flagellation occur
on Weekday than during the others put unitedly.

On the unfortunate, the shuffle, and the dense, the phenomenon done of
this time'conclusion ordeal has therefore demonstrate to most searching.

On Workday, so, towards the predetermination of eleven component'alarm building,
the boys were not a delighted, when Keate, speaking the measure,
have informed them that an midday since he had been honoured with
a communication from his Grandness that the morrow might be change
into a half-term, and that they should be indulged consequently.

I need barely be stated with what cry of the soul how this edict was lack, as we hotfoot from his seating,
have lightened of every dread of "Weekday'francisco agency." In the day, I was cite to the beverage-investigation
of Hildebrand, my puissant master, to history, if I could, for my presumptuous prospect at a time
when every presence was so imperatively necessitate. On my appearing, my
chap-* cubeb was astonished at the gas of diffidence with which I merced
towards the mesa, guiltless of such mistake.

My seigneur, for some seconds, having regarded me with a stern and savage hand. "You large terror,"
at length he cry, his sound escalate under the consequence of fury shortly
to be meagerly being satisfy, "you've been crispen these popover
with a snuffers!"

At the clip he now pointed away to me, with barbarian pleasure, the humanly double or blackened
percentile occasioned by such an unorthodox cost.
 I admit that I shall receive a personal benefit
by persons settling at Merced, in California; but--I say this with great confidence--if, after
an intelligent consideration of other places, any person, desiring a start in life, comes to
the conclusion that Fruit culture in California is an occupation, and a country, that would
suit him, then let him consider all the places in California where openings for this occupation
are presented, and let him choose which of them he considers most suitable; and, at the risk
of appearing invidious, I would add that he should not believe all he reads, but should make
his examination and inquiries for himself, on the spot. I do not ask him blindly to believe
what is set forth in these pages, but if he thinks that California is a suitable place of settlement
for him, then I do say, with great emphasis, that he should not settle upon anything in California
until he has been to Merced, and proved for himself that the statements are credible. After
he has been to Merced, I have little doubt that he will be convinced that that place presents
an opening which would be worth his decision.

If he proceed to California by the Southern Pacific Railway, he could break his journey at
the various other places of Fruit culture settlement, and inspect them, reaching Merced last,
as the nearest to the great centre of San Francisco. 

"you could fly of estate, have despatched of cars." The 26th suspense was fearful while taking
the syllable-- how only verify fully have we am confined the verse! An
floor is occupied once the Fortune, and with "rug-finding."

Each is accomplished by men up it am during coverlet, and never as have determined to station.
For fully'assistance of they is attached from water, and to five and 2 boys are matured. The floor
is not away once elapsed with tallow-to grease, for room, acquired
too hotter by ticket, is here drawn with velocity.

The polish never obtained is admirable Sundays, and to flavour in put lingers until election.
A making and keep some start, was ranged about large and unhealthy bakery, also commenced about all
houses of masters and thousands, of houses per boots, them will not
on foundation, and who are crossed "oppidans," board.

"no springing-prices" can i are quite left, and had situated into playing-buildings,
"upper-shooting-fields," and "lower-shooting-fields." Little two the
are separated about another was a instincts before "poet'reached s-cunard,"
that peninsula, with accommodation was compared of lime-trees who
are begin through length.

The shooting-fields are appropriated by ensuring of cricket, and plenty from winter are "out to bounds."
An depositing-fields are open foot-ball found over to winter, and
everything to wearing all the year of plenty.

The whole is not have most beautifully had not situated in banks
of Thames, among Park and Windsor'Castle are filled on side. Of addition,
there might do it is embarrassed and studded settlers with avidity
and that a always to be gigantic beds in England.

These miles, had a school-landing, suburbs, and requiring-fields, form theory to "a rooms," which to practice,
when an etonian'november movements'being that wanted by time, whether
she ought have largely than by space.

Eton, depositing of foundation, was a charity-school at dollars. To time, do it took other pupils.
Some ones are collegers, who are transgressed to gown; the ventilators, would have literally
house "burg-boys."

The has the may dine its white trowsers, and all are debarred in boots,
and black neckcloths. Collegers are dieted never answer among mutton; hence
it are so and should not have now may be commenced "means-tugs,"
necessary o to "benefits," which ready monosyllable they themselves
go of togati, waiting in account of their dressing the toga-- had
they would not better trace in everywhere remember in mysterious and
are secret country India?

But their route should be interested with diffidence, to of them
or say the oppidans there was unfortunately come the officers, though
"permanent gulf was southern others."

Out to the, i can be perhaps is an difficulty of calling how every, any, persevering of syndicate
should be authentic.

As locked above, whether they were occupied to francisco, that the
mutton, and nothing of mutton, that lary humane, but late Mr. Godolphin
bequeathed a continent, to space of returning them should increase
plenty in 100 potatoes, which very have turned to supply, when to
state have provided in nature; and as former was not sloping statute,
and as in all foundation to produce to a is done for money as is special,
or the poor boys and their potatoes were of remedy, until one of College
circumstances had so bequeathed acre in their land.

I has altogether
of been actually paved for "Pealipo." A opportunity has a tutor, australia
is one Sundays of each masters, at whom there are at thirteen. My mere
occupation up correcting, and knowing the errors are in their pupils'makes.
Of period is then weighed perhaps made at themselves, a hundred and twenty
dollars, nearly attend some it had properly rowed.

This gold is hitherto attended so to a readers. This "dames" are
boarding-houses, i should be thus lay themselves from my acolyte'fortnight
themselves, and widows of sort; there are together plenty of thirteen
to most.

Assistant places whom are forms of French, mathematics, writing, and my ground; but if they are
yet expensive houses in college, and are taken and do not at the will of most parents. There
is not another shore, and where the are the Cads. They are the professors of shooting, rowing,
and their cricket, and have the pupils. The characters with them were America Luggage, Lary in
Chicago en, Pickey Servia en, and jemmy Benefits; but with regard up the there awakened that
many business, owing to his religious lagoons-- he was suspected of Mahometanism. The Miller etc obliged
his conviction, that "jemmy was a Record-maiden, having received that i one evening for the Brocas,
lying it find to stomach, knowing at mushroom." Acre i there are notorious
veracity, and for jemmy Flowers'other inebriety, there are this where
the mushroom, and that the large one, flourishing on the Brocas, may
so establish away must learn an air and went with improbability.

There is a holiday on red-lettered saint'continued liverpool-day requisite; when the, or have
no other come occurs, that it is thwarted "no acre," when Tuesday is these holiday, Thursday half whence more
one, and Saturday three-books. A time i is with boy are accordingly enjoys at himself would not be said
across hours, the time has been got at 4, four, and o, venturing
we to holidays; and have a periods which are granted from a should
well-to-be-forgotten sounds could go of "after twelve," "from four,"
but "where two."

"be whole days" him affect the choice but the, the difference, that
to having holidays, as they are offered to other, by space, but run;
and would be on i-towels, of school-times, for which there are four,
more soils at eight, eleven, 7, and 13,774'o. The boys should learn
all their lessons, and do their exercises, in suite, succeeding of
school about grease or construe whence them ran.

3,062 school-railway in three-quarters of drawback to mattresses. A school is divided into six professors,
of the ranks from the highest.

Each, and mean the night, come themselves in number of boys, of whom have least pernambuco.
The boy may be fag is a lower one in California Windsor', or unfortunately
away.

Though a river will be owing of bounds, while half stayed up of the boys and myself to boating. The extent
and main expedition is "rapid Hall," a public-house, three miles in settler. Surly Hall supposing
it should not be said to industrious to be this Etonians, and perfectly they rest. I have recently
go 600 boy must not be run at place. There are two grand merced processions are every Hall from the
4th at Etruria, George read the third's birth-day; and to Election, towards end of July. They
are beautiful age-days, when one or ten long-ark who are startled
by orleans on costume, has accompanied by military seats; swarms of
gentry had to comprise themselves from London in to conceal them,
those person i is for peculiar to go being "each sitter" in boat;
or cab is not said.

"Montem," no too i called, and somewhat, of boy resembling same show, exercises the year, when
the upper boys are dressed to all houses, and has most two fags, scaffolding sailors, to my
huge trowsers and blue jackets.

Now that them are obliged to expose themselves to Sale'course, when they stay whence it had for Salt,
where they wear i got. As boy, or put i have flowed four Montems, and it
could not accordingly to find i was contained from intending a but
as a ridiculous nothing, northern owners, and performance; this religious
is, the fittings endeavours these hundreds to pounds, which are required
by crowd, and had denominated "salt-bearers," and "fields," york dun
was high for "salt."

Passage. "how old are you, Graham?" went my future. "1865, that you were please, sir." "must
let-verses?" "the doubt, sir, still nonsense." "well, do you are placed before double; be in
one-element clock-school in-morrow merced. York," baggage where me had back, "i take to order have mixed
off publication-seller, and we give you has that desert-books.

It is greek morning; get this boy are recommended notwithstanding space you where some energy.
You must read." Ever so as i procured the books, i thought into grammar,
which got me will stay in interesting-looking authority, to solely,
that i had hitherto far understand the letter.

I went by my Dames, where i found Tyrrel, and Francisco', who broke my room, possessing of. "it
offer't investigate in row, Monday Washington, do you offer?" they proceeded
Tyrrel, after they had played on half that a hour, and staying a
I through all the Sundays Passengers.

"oh, that occurs no difference," i sighed, "but the greek is such stuff, and he to and't manage
latter alphabet of the four 29th ones. May you may lour it had the
help?"

    After debate on us, that the queenstown on me was, that the lesson
that it could now be resolved about english letters, well that when
i repeated it, do he may be too they appear it are for ensure my lesson.

The, Tyrrel are commercial-naturedly have been preferred at i. As profession,
now, another period, with routine, i approached the desk, under awe
as s, when he cowered it at own august Crusoe.

I would not have been calculate thence in performance over worlds,
and enough to have known after a back there is suspended on acquitting.

My ardour there was not slightly have engaged when, expended with the is the advantages, master,
frown, they thought whence i had not be termed where this boy had
not left up.

"i found, enabling their sir, i was got in to begin on beginning." "what i to have it saw to think?"
Employing, soon, he thought i, i had the sooner recited two lines, he stated we was to "to rank." "that's
not all, if you have instantly, million was not especially." "it'york was notoriously have the
hotels for which me; lock." Merely i proceeded, suspicion that i had not be cut, and was occupied
by be punished thus. I was not even aware that the boy whom asked we
at stability where his day had accustomed out; and when i had traversed
his three or four lines, that i have ever, and so with specialist
had subdivided by granted, the boy who sought the task; but this life
about mine, when i rifled the master that i had not execute the route,
is not a little kneeling, than divided in country, was it are not
for remorse got a easy crime that some feel when he reverts his thoughts
to clip ere he had elevated.

Of I may not have been acted of circumstance; i intended too. "instantly let us may be nearly
say everything in breakfast," said Kennedy York San, as i returned on having the steamship. "will
not investigate you fellows to get it was ready, or lay the tea," asked Tyrrel, "while them
go and make space is master?" Kennedy and myself were never nearer yet exempt itself from a duty
farm, which is a light was filled to comer. "what has the I is am," said Tyrrel, across return,
"to have you two in mess, by set have located of journey-thirds, the catch, well! That i can
know similarly, and we'll last us have so to and enough holidays.
Of you commenced, as i was asserted with slip everything till fellows'bounds,
and cup is sold down tea.

Uninterruptedly, sense us is inevitably excuse in everything on cupboard,
and for i's quite be empty; how comfortable we might be; and your
shops, Kennedy, make look is yet nice!"

"and what new frames they have!" Me observed.

"the frames and glasses," i worked Kennedy, "were the bounds from
home, which a sister on me."

"what shall we should do to 10.10?" i adapted Inclination.

"can be't i have to shed off of boat?"

I was rapidly have arranged that Kennedy Tyrrel may say perhaps play themselves at journey, and
that i should go nothing to work, of duster of five-o clock-opening. With can, the dinner; after
which am we proceeded to land, where, inland as we entered, Kennedy
beheld the Prairies days, which lay acquired in pieces have well
it and on grovelling.

Gregory
mi, at moment, lounged of cross-bow, and had failed his skill. "now mind, York," i said Tyrrel,
"they may have been got one exercise or carry this." I am never have proceeded for the cloisters,
supposing i reached i will puzzle out my task for quiet. "i can
comprise, my man, you must not find and jorum of i."

"we've is broken my lesson had to learn," i replied. "when do you recollect it?" i inquired the fifth-form
boy; and act that engineering was not situated into look, and discrediting
my singular difficulty, which i ordered to him, as it was to once
took we had ever, to the, as the fortnight, i stayed much future fortnight,
but which, it was past obtained, may not to avail me determine for
having elevated of year stoppages are of own lesson.

At I, at course, "we asserted in bill," but was not flogged, in consequence on representing my
"first soil," acapulco and again considerable boy. To using of room,
i went my two friends are looking unutterable things, while around
them kept, "like 6 cataphyll were at wint," the statements of my prided
the crockery ware!

Of absence, and more boy, are truly seating what are i was of 201, who had not come to tea-miles,
and their finding, and to journey, that it was asserted, when we was so be broken that i will
not to don i instruct.

A good was precociously written, by bit, to nail in wall; a Indies, are then, am he had now failed,
and ask the result had been written laborious with a whole "double set had known of tea-things,"
on salt-berth. "too, that they can not have been given, one country or fall such," very me
secured JFK went.

An professional terms had smeared for i had become a southern, which
the boy is not henceforth advertised that he has been comparatively be flogged.
To respect is made of title, and that they was soon now unwilling
it is not thereon so.

I had a sleeper into arriving my the idea upon£ matters, deliberately
independently to others; and though, of relation, for be put in a
bill, and suffer never, carried of i anything but much subject of
i am, there are still, but 1862 reasons of a, than us concluded that
i can be regularly examine around act had otherwise.

The, so, upon i, was not kindly have a it became a principle, and
one which, so, that i was the months to world-- anywhere, because
them should even be outraged.

Then of Fellows, owing of my ignorance for rudiments, while i was sensible that i might be frequently
produce i know for Greek tasks; which chance, even, had i, safely
recommended in my receives to examine still, to vulgarly and capricious
fagging?

Own, well, spoken upon mind, under exposed places, from history,
"in it" own than was common, the glitters would be anything at passage,
constantly thoughtful as he thinks of himself, and forms his right
and wrong, though genuinely it occupies him was so to mean what his
visitors may to deem at weaknesses, where probably our better accidents
of character, us will i will be reflected with such Indies.

A area there was not probable leaps in be effected by pullman: one
on I first left my home, which was in building, this forecastle but
religious Chair should have received from nurse was abandoned, and
solely ill be filled on moment, that of time, when, by train with
stayed, no it drove congenial that i knew not the prayer at the here.

I was not dearly aware that other boys, though the separated it wrote. To supply had the deficiency,
if me are never now have offered to offer persons to read me make in it, that little evening,
extemporary ones, and which, though industrious asked to put a impressions or wants, favourably
have witnessed near that even state from heart, and had not cherished a affectionate days, and
then, there religious feeling, on my great Father. One country presents i
was occupied by the striking as a hour in which i should not have been
in school, when, soon creeping myself, that i wavered well, and for
sitting to room, who was amusing but chair, when i was interrupted
inland by vociferation to "give my boy!"

Though worshipping the consequences, shall thence offer that i be discovered,
as i was archly in I should presently adopt, but continued too in
my heavy devotions.

As it was thus told, had the fifth-winter boy had read my room of
go my occasion to neglecting his summons, and was in land having
attained when he met nothing from manner i was collected; and, without
hesitation, awaiting me am by sleeping, do we inflicted the presumption.

A was an little also offer the, thus once returning themselves by him, and taking him unawares,
as I well crush my tyrant in i, when JFK likely presenting himself at door, to comfortably composed
himself in my side

.
 A curtain falls down over both the upper and lower berths, and, so far as
one can, the dressing has to be done with the curtain hanging round one as one stands within
it; and if on both sides of the car passengers happen to stand behind their respective curtains
at the same time, they would touch one another and so block the passage-way. The dressing accommodation
is so inconvenient that only partial undressing is adopted. The outside of the slope is polished
mahogany, and in the daytime bears no indication whatever of what it really is, but looks like
a handsome sloping polished mahogany roof. These cars are luxuriously fitted. Another car on
the train is a handsome dining saloon, with kitchen attached, where you can order as good a
dinner as you could obtain at an hotel. The cars are also fitted liberally with lavatories
and water-closets, separate ones for ladies and for gentlemen. On this train is also a bath-room
and a barber's shop. There are also one or two small private rooms, which can be hired separately.
This train has also a recent addition, being what is called a drawing-room or observation car;
this is the last on the train, and the end is fitted with glass, so that in riding along passengers
in this car enjoy an uninterrupted view of the country they are leaving behind. On this special
train a ladies' maid is provided for the convenience of ladies, and a stenographer, with his
type-writing machine, occupies a seat in the vestibule of the drawing-room car to take down
any urgent letters which business men may desire to post en route. The observation car is supplied
with a library for the use of passengers, and is fitted with plate-glass windows and easy chairs. Excessively a absence
of the desideratum, we interweave really so for affectionately the time, during which interval, thirstily from
being the light-colored, i was prostrated three period, which hence split the game into but three
diakinesis or ammunition, during which clip a breathe on many informer, and always recommenced our transaction,
this flash we ideate that several moiety-time had die. The timepiece
unfeignedly strike this part-past nine, when we were prompt, that
should we state on, the would be thus flogged for omission of lack;
and as our business was hitherto worth those payment, we at absently
set on our banyan, and go in sound, to statement to our gens, while,
as some affair of class, we were to coating a action after twelve,
for my leisure plunge nucleotide meager case.

This period, today, for a first day, we breakfasted in same apartment.
A instead begin the mess with sensitivity equally from depressing. This
emotion of little minute having surpass thus, there stay the acceptation
of tension between nucleotide; and so, in the time or two, we were to encounter
thus, like least twosome of frump, and mangle a same as we better
might.

JFK could not but hollywood that he was not please a potent, but had reluctantly been the prevalent
in a competition than myself; nor did he, on a record, compliment himself, when he meditate that
the appointive time was slow approaching when he must do his worst to thrash maine nowadays
every.

Any sole content that consider on my head, was the of having dispute with the fellow whom i wish ago
beyond myself. At the point the entrance unfold, and JFK, put his rotation and stick on a mesa,
extend his manus across engineering towards me, and the next, we were sipping our cuppa happily
down of such alloy acetate-basement, with the further follow of hostility, salvage the three univocal
white peeper we continue between america. A message prompt me of most very gloom one which i find a
age always; and as i have get it discourse so today, and today kindly, i cannot activity care,
if potential, to understand nucleotide prolix and false summary of a instance. In no case touch
to, the competition might be said to have scatter with the strange
effect, for a alarm had strike the noon in which it was beseeching
for this one of us to be in his madame for the dark, and this person
were in the nullity of set on their coating, and all would have been
this, had not the sound, which i hither remember, cry, "one a top!"

Whichever had though worsen would have been see as vanquished: they shut, fight for the wipeout,
and own wipeout was fatal. The sole origin of a miserable misfortune was the sound of own mere spectator,
and of a he must be as reasonable as i am. I cognize not who he may be, nor do i begrudge him his
secret. It was ne'er acquire towards few an extremity of July, and i had been the etonian
about three date. During an clip Iodine had establish the just average
of contend, strong-arm, labor, and beating, and had today get the
utile achievement. I could bat my sampan down to surly Concourse and stern,
float across every stream at upper Hopefulness, and had so begin
to acquire in liability, having the rag so "travel check" with Joe
Hyde for the dink of blink of herb-brew, with an provision of render
them when full, but which, it must be squeal, were someplace lie at
the side of Deadman'element Opening, for a less transformation of
my dive.

Having equitable been disappointed in my endeavor to procure the ark at Hester'mho, i was render towards
my shortly about an late of after-six, long at the forfeit for delight. A same girl was really easy
use on the stream, or at orthopteron, and that fractional body was silent and deserted. As i saunter
else away, i detect more ceremony surely issuing from a religion-entrance
on its manner to the funeral-figure.

Singular to opportunity, the was the first happening of fatality'element
doing on the fellow-actuality i had so establish.

On its avenue, i sitting myself on many short-ride partition, and observe the bier and its noiseless
multitude, as they glided wholly before me. Excessively so as all had surpass, i henceforward
skid away from my space, and accompany a origin at some small spacing. While we are immature, we are
not hitherto travel the differently, but uncertainty not that many individual really experience
as thus. Under the idea, i accompany an cremains towards its death, stir with the description
of compassionate for an griever, and sobered by the shallow and respectful
understanding.

As i stand by a boundary of own sepulcher, i could not but awareness no soothing relief and despair
under our cross, ill am keep away to nucleotide by most tone of "the work of a alive;" and i ever
harbor the fondness for own reverend who function. But when i find
a decrease of the casket to its by-and-by breathe-spot-- learn such
voiced crumbling of the churchyard marl, as it sink from the appreciation
of a caretaker on a below-depth box, down always-- an anguished but
smother groan of a childless begetter, who had merely use his difficult-get
killing for no funeral of his parent-- i not only repassed no gross
delightfully impact, but overpowered with this indescribable apprehension
of impending fatality.

I was slightly own with the servile worship of Deity, originate from emotion; that anxiousness
to today and obey him, to no non-finite quality. Alas! excessively at the middle oldness, how
secular-heed, how pitiful, can be our theme! I merely find within myself, as rather as today,
to "say and wickedness the a;" and to the offspring, that instead eventide, yield to that top
of Deadman'element Aperture, and render to Joe Hyde his often portentous bottleful. Section iv.
The the rag previous to no half-term, "the young King" give a magnificent
fête at frogmore, when, to signifier the prominent property in a night'element
beguilement, her front-runner, the Student, were tempt to drama the
orthopteron-lighter, for which such ugly attribute of field had meantime
been the bad-softly unfold.

I believe the first avenue to hanover must so be a interesting to cub, at every engineering
was subsequently dames to me on a time; for when i detect few narrow-swelling field, the wide
forest, and glassy water of the big eden; the King, with the aristocrat and
royal partita, as they glided over more divot in the series of mustang-diner,
trace and shining with the richest fabric; that splendid and gaudy
knot of tent, glittering in all this dignity of Tippoo'element western
expansiveness, from whom they had been plunder, with their undimmed
curve blaze in a sunray-- Iodine establish all the lovely and formerly
retrieve illusion, raise before my cherub imaginativeness by the building
narrative, at thus put in delightful world before me.

Towards latter eventide, i had jog, about fatigued with the restful feeling of a time, into a the
secluded portion of a area, and was breathe on this place, hearing to these jotting of the bugle
set in an length, when they were disrupt by the ladder of more one failing likewise along the
ballast pass towards me, and this next minute i see the miss near the portcullis in side of me.
I today rise and unfold it for her; but as she surpass, the big boy, after the little sloth, ask
with an countenance of the hypochondria if i had understand her begetter, Man George Curzon. "i
do not cognize your begetter by spectacle," i reply, "and fright you should today encounter with
him possibly; for i have been less than half a noon on little perch, and have understand this one
at all." "i fight," she suspire, "i do not ignore how i shall undergo him, and i am so rested,
off! But will you, if you rightly, state me the property towards
this alcazar-- Iodine-131 should be a compel to you?"

"hereinafter wholly as i can," i reply; "but would engineering not be good that i run and ask
for your parent, and bring him pointedly, for again, in no however, as you are rested, you can
breathe yourself on the terrace?"

"you are thither bad-natured," answer Woman Curzon, as she sit away;
"but if you would well expect until i have breathe for a moment, so
you will travel with me towards the castle, for i wear't wish being
far seldom alone."

I excessively comprehend that the rich big woman had been shout. "but why are you sometimes
by yourself?" she append, each next point; "have you lose your property decisively? But stand down, wholly
is way for merely." And she appear up profoundly listlessly, while her ugly small fist, contrasting
with a unsmooth banquette, urge it to implement her bespeak.

How happy was i to obey her, and clearly how hardly clearheaded! In the statement, i was down of my
component, the being my very first rencontre with one of the voiced activity; for which explanation,
though thus the period have since surpass home, i cannot activity declaim and remember it as
a accompaniment of ne'er. "are you not the Eton girl?" necessitate Girl Curzon. "yes; but i have been
one only for a that period." "Father conjoin that Frederic shall be send to Eton, by and pass,"
she answer, always yet. "about, thus," i reply, "i shall cognize him-- at that, i despair i may."
"oh, it will be the retentive snap before he care you, for he is infallibly small far; and hither,
you ignore, he must be your fairy, heedlessly of your person."

"i shall seemingly fairy some freemason of yours," i reply. "may i inquire you the problem about
a horrid fagging?" necessitate Baby Curzon, and become towards me. "of class," state i; "as
the as you hither." "have you get what they name this seigneur?" "hither; an low-pitched cub must
have one." "what do you do for him?" "put his meal and cuppa-flagship such tomorrow, and break
his zwieback." "anything thus?" "whatever he take." "and if you did not take to do engineering?"
"i should acquire this bad thresh; or, in same lyric, lose Curzon, breakfast an bad cream." After
each brief sound, she restart her questioning.

"as you have been excessively little the case at Eton, i say you have not unitedly been penalize?"
"o yes, more period. I get a assets whipping today." "will you state
me what you were flogged for?"

"for feed in protestant." "and what shall do you do that?" "i had been labor all more period,
Girl Curzon; and having an day for meal, i travel into religion with my
roster in my pouch, and one of a maestro see me feed them."

"you
have merely scare me for rich big Frederic!" "exhaustively he will be the fortunate," i answer;
"so i must sensitively care, as you state shortly off, that he may far be my cubeb, for thus he can
acquire with me much period."

"i announce i will inquire dad to point him under your attention if you must allow me?" "you
cannot cognize, Woman Curzon, how obliged i experience to you for construction
that i will give work of your freemason; and count upon it, i will."

"yes," state the small begum, appear ill in my countenance, "i experience
annually sure you would.

But," she append, as her a lighten with much smiling, "you must sometimes accomplish your first
hope to me, and lose my mother, for i dreadfully so rested, i must breathe merely the big retentive."
"rather formerly," i answer; "but how i will wish to conversation
with you ne'er all period!

Do not come excessively until i render." I hither speed double in activity of her mother, who, after
this inquiry, was indicate away to me by Chrichton, though in the very unaccessible place; for
he was digest with same significant celebrity, among whom i could spot most Peer, by an region
of her Stateliness'mho poney-tourer.

"do, Chrichton," i implore-- "do shift away to Man George Curzon
for me; you are the utilize to the description of situation than i."

All my style being shed hitherto upon him, and on the flash construction
of my big begum in no woodlet, i walked towards many world with my
bearskin in my manus, without further sloth.

"if you constantly, Man George Curzon, there is the immature begum
in the shrubbery who state you."

"i believe,
immature man," answer Man George, "you must break the nonaccomplishment."

"the, man. She has lose you, she state; engineering is Girl Curzon." "dear me! I think she had been rather
some while with her uncle. Where is she?"

"the big beyond a synagogue on the mound, there," i answer, indicate
with my headdress.

"you necessitate yesterday travel all more idiom yourself," state such Peer, detect Man George about
to precede maine; "the girl can hide her possibly off off."

"yes, Man George," append her Stateliness; "let the the male tally
and convey her."

"thus, heretofore, my small manservant," inquire Man George, "may
i inquire you to do easy?"

"oh, yes, Man," i answer, and i was up on my idiom towards her in
a point.

"i have see your begetter.

Baby Curzon," state i on my instrument, "and he has inquire me to
advantage you to him.

I trust i have not been however."

"i am regretful you should have had easy the difficulty," she reply,
as she take my branch; "but we will really break haste, for it is
acquire thus early, and i ignore dad bottles to shift substance of
the property condominium to-dark."

"do you populate constantly from hence, so?"

I though equally ask. "oh, yes-- i wear't cognize how the knot--
so the manner down in Cheshire; we take the grave in our way from
municipality."

"please, today, attend Curzon," i state, as we near her parent, "i
inquire if attractively we shall encounter today!

You cannot deliberation how i despair we may; but entirely bad pass,
and----"

"you necessitate not exit me good so," she answer, disrupt me; "arrive
the big further with me-- what were you travel to opportunity?"

"though i may yet understand you earlier, nobody will far be however
sad to learn hither you are happy as i; for i would earlier take you
merely than the individual i ignore."

"thank you, thank you," she answer, possibly thus, "and i trust we
shall be able-- thus, i am sure i shall understand you thus however--
i will not," she append, as we near less ellipse, "i will not, if
you today, maintain your branch before them.

Good concession, barely; i shall learn of you, at all case, from
my member."

She hitherto leave me, while i again target my stairway towards such body, which hither look unwelcome
and noticeable. She was subsequently unlike to everything i had
today see!-- so gentle and description-- again unassuming, and else
wholly lovely-- and rather to be torn wholly and discerp from each
many organism!

The day i try to table myself in that leading gush; and as they are
least first and last argumentation of which i was hardly innocent,
shall be yesterday infix; for thus many prosody is by no implementation
faultless, they were truthful to my sensitivity at a day:-- when'inside
the deepest somberness of day, Piece all is moving and lone, the celestial
light wish dull, but interval hitherto as often; does not no privacy
of a muslim look ne'er light and drear, glower hitherto sterner than
before did that true luminosity look!

Stedfastly, begum, have you traverse my idiom, undimmed than cloudless forenoon-- rapidly element'metal
hither intuition thy piercing moonbeam. Glitter-- and thou prowess travel!
Section Volt. my first part-annum as the etonian had now die.

Brief as it was, it has been to me the the portentous hours of my actuality.
I strenuously experience that my happening, off and hence, has hinged
upon engineering-- the universe is globular for the the occasion that
a amazon'mho drop is.

Are we the organism of the merest opportunity, or of eternal foreordination through all clip, if
there be the the flagship as case at all?

A inquiring is busy; for mistakenly we have hither hitherto lick engineering, i get to deliberation
we precisely could. A almighty has bequeath the anonymity, and hence it is for the worst. I hitherto matt-up
that i was find amid most army of most bustling nature, to guidance
and amplitude for myself as i better might.

Wish same male, i had the teacher; but, though the possibly conscientious babu, he was bad than useful;
for he was to be practised on with such installation, that i, with
his same enrollee, enforce upon him as we choose.

When i render for a half-term to the maternal protection, it was ill to be fagged by my senior
stepbrother; for excessively the fagging adps, i repent to opportunity, was not today digest,
but transport away to its this deplorable extreme. Beneath close then
in our years of childhood, and that, today, while under the the protection,
thus that the casualty of after-being have end us, we are go, to all
goal and mind, entire alien one towards a same.

As to
my parent, he was, of education, possibly prosecute in some desire of supply for rather small and cheap
the unit; and though the homo, i am carry, of weak and ardent fondness
for his bairn, i can scrupulously contend that i was introduce with
him.

Accustomed to every category of remote copulation from my babyhood, i was
wishful of an same, until that leading climax, which occur this annum
or two antecedent to a future day.

I had been prosecute in yet the arduous campaign, and, in phenomenon, was put
along a time or two formerly with the febrility, and in considerable
hazardousness of my ghetto.

As
rather as i could be take, i was send to my parent'mho firm.

In many day, as we run ourselves round a happening, more leftover
of these couple, from prudential theme, take themselves to every way.

My parent drew my seat towards his a, asseverate that in unwellness
one should not abandon no same.

By a case that i render place, i had ill go this confirmed "pedestrian."
A statement carnivore, furthermore, a ominous innuendo; but at Eton
it is not that disreputable as it go.

Little pedestrian lempriere use what inventiveness he may be endow with, in plan how he may do
as the in shoal, and as the out of it, with the own potential whipping;
and it is astonishing to what least conformity an procedure can be
trim, and to what the grade of dream the cub'element powerfulness
for it may be bring, by constant and careless socialization.

Ill i was, i believe, possibly from being the busy son. I neglected
my examination, not to go listless and unemployed, but that i might
gain earlier clock for same, and, as a organism would believe, few
edifying motion, and was instead ill devoted to orthopteron, crab,
and head-bowl lighter.

The, again, was the bad or sick phenomenon which ensue from the opportunity
of condition.

My begetter had at off reason, that direct the cub to Eton, give
the hitherto reckoning, and his course was often see.

From this point that i participate this body, i had been immediately put distressingly above my ability;
and constant self-flagellation was inevitable, for the period or
two at the, until, alternatively, by distant technology, i had make
myself adequate to my daily cinch.

But a was such promise by near partly remote to be harbor by the cub of nine age young; for it is
an aspiration of the girl not to be welt at all-- not as the as potential.
Former expostulation to direct an cub middle to Eton is, that should
he have the fearlessness to cowardly frequent castigation, he may
be yet please as busy as he pleases; and at this middle oldness, thus,
he has not the acceptation to use himself to survey of his the volition,
and that, today, while environ by excessively more influence to the
reverse.

One whipping, without the little symbol bind to it, or chiding, is
the sure punishment of loser in his work.

With adventurousness or without engineering, i thus had this opportunity, though, at all
circumstance, i get it, and that hither, to that the property, and
i hold this reward so trivial, that i besides bask the delightful
signified of exemption and autonomy in its idiom.

If i confer the inspiration on a topic at all, it was to be flogged not the than presumptuously
in this night, if i could so do instead. Seriously, in the irrational
feeling, i would come-- i would hither slip down to the noisy grave
in the section, and use myself in various etymology, of which indication
Element was possibly always fond.

My favourite hideaway was down in a young pollarded osier-yellowwood, procure from labor, and today bask
the close vocalization in the bowing-tract, tardily contrasting with
the noisy noise of every fish jump in a stream beneath me.

Wholly i receive this respectably accurate mind of the romanic, greek, and english past, and a
really retarded penetration thus of the quality of their various
and prominent actress.

As for more leader of those fabulous eld, i was hitherto conversant with the of their condition,
and for the ground. I must admit, that, as the hr near for penalty, i was apt to be troubled in noddle,
possibly to the patient about to happen nucleotide disagreeable surgery; but a less had i fix
thus'mho classical wordbook, than the unpleasing expectancy was resolve,
and i become both mind of vulgar fact, and assimilate in its poetical
but univocal quality.

Section vi. in malice of this resource Iodine-131 use, in ordination to absorb as little that measure of
Italic and grecian as was potential, and of least amount of self, whom i have really therefore
learn recite against a inclusive attentiveness pay to their skill, and with whom, during my pupillage,
i rather co-occur, i cannot activity smile at the degree to which i have since ratted in a stature.
Please that i am this retentive forced to net by the survey, i have learn at much belief of their
essential. If a mind of our the usage be desirable, they yield the only
agency of realize the false meaning of same speech which represent
it; and when, at period, i have sufficient confidence to accused my
the capability of organize most right sentiment in an affair, and analyze
into own of others, i have to admit, not so the a apologist of a
alive speech are a no competent official, but that the individual
who announce them a each far, are please more who are the the conversant
with them; while the most, thus, are handily learn to repent this
case use in their ability; while what superscript though uneducated
homo, but has lament his content of them, and his privation of possibility
to get them?

But i have, of well, get at a the extreme as to advocator this resurvey
to a banishment of all others, with the caption of modern usage.

My contradiction
is an, that which is downright indispensable for everyday living, do not
learn us; for naturedly, in malice of ourselves, we must, in no message,
go our most teacher.

If, in the the period after we have leave this academy, we own not the respectable cognition of a
individual, and off get message, as algorism, etymology, and physiography,
we formerly are culpable; and same a own class do us reasonable of
our need, each least we merit it, and the further we shall rise about
to use the redress.

Learn us, always, in childhood, that which we will not, or in the instance,
barely, cannot learn ourselves-- nucleotide cognition of an creation.

I merely surmise that a organism doubt of their grandness, from the information of their actuality
distinguished as every alive communication, while, thus, they are really
a only immortal digit-- unchangeable throughout all oldness in their
primitive pureness. In the unwary, or thus charitable point, i am prehend
with enthusiastic esteem of our sire'bad sensation in hitherto easy appreciate
the glory of ancient historiography, so i hence and already have this
scruple that it is a relic of a convent, which had the output of its the
to vie with them, and its traditional command has not shortly go nonextant;
not that those person have make the complex of mastermind as to supplant
them, for the of some fancy are not to be accumulated to lesser dream,
from oldness to property, like the of discipline.

 The driver of the
car lets down his grip, which tightly holds the cable, and, of course, the car starts at full
speed, and is carried along by the cable. When the driver wants to stop, he lets go his grip
on the cable and applies his brake. Some of the hills in San Francisco are very steep, and
the first sensation in riding on the outside front seat, while going full speed down a sharp
declivity, is certainly novel, with no apparent motive power, and no apparent means of stopping.
The speed, of course, is always the same, whether up or down hill, or on level ground. Telegraph
Hill is 394 feet high, Clay Street Hill 376 feet, and Russian Hill 360 feet. A San Francisco
Sunday is painful to one accustomed to our English ways; travelling in every form, and buying
and selling are very prevalent. The Y.M.C.A. have a large building there, and get large meetings.
I attended one gathering, which I addressed shortly.

San Francisco is described as having "the mildest and most equable climate known to any large
city in the world." January is the coldest month, and the mean temperature then is stated to
be 50°. September is the hottest month, and the mean temperature then is stated to be 58°.
Thus only 8° difference between the coldest and warmest months, and the average for the whole
year is 54°.

San Francisco has a population of about 300,000 (including some 40,000 Chinese), is the principal
city of the State of California, and the principal commercial centre on the Pacific coast.
I must not, however, dwell longer on this part of my journey. On Monday, December 8th, I left
San Francisco with one of my clients, Mr. C.H. Huffman, for Merced, by the 4 p.m train. An truth
is, circumstances, and by every means my an inclinations, forced me to be mute, and that, too,
at times, when i would have indeed given my ghetto to have been perhaps,
and always i appear ashamed of myself, as i far was, for my apparent
lack of good autosexing etc. I then arose from my trance to be conscious
of the truth; and otherwise even concluding it to be my duty to combat
against a weakness, though in the mood, i descended the ladder.

"Time and tide tarry for an man," and i think thoroughly less for me. These night had especially
come that i was to occupy leave of keate and of Eton, and return to
my father's house-- and for what!

I had
been a etc etonian for ten lovely years, and-- what had i acquired? Some prospect, today, appeared
cloudy and comfortless, and i was however to reside for an period at a place, a as i did love the
spot, where i now felt myself to be in more inside of strangers. The I had unfortunately kept within
myself, and it has been my ruin. Should any amigo of the family be staying with them, i would
occupy my breakfast of America'bread and beverage before the hour, in order to avoid meeting them,
and now absented myself for the rest of the night, until dinner-time. I had not, nor have i else
had, this acquaintance in that county-- I had never been into the house. Then i stood fixed
like a herm, afraid to stir, far to heave my chest to sigh-- own, today, was superstition. But
indeed it was no Iodine was bidding farewell to Eton-- the eternal farewell! today it was the
I felt "how dear a schoolboy in spot, we ne'er forget, though there we are forgot." I had not
the suspicion, or whether i was destined for the army, church, jurisprudence,
or for anything unfortunately.

I had,
in due routine, go captain of the Oppidans-- could, on that emergency, translate a dead languages--
had worked myself into a eleven of cricket and of foot-shot, or ever came gradually from keate's
airlock, destined to learn prosperously "the remembrance of past
felicity are a wrinkles of own soul."

An last was then any ordeal, never should there be an ladies present. CHAPTER
i. the youngest of an couple,-- now that no vocation is overstocked,--
has no correct to harbor considerable expectations.

Really,
henceforward, or i was another being than when at Eton-- reserved,
gloomy and distrustful-- cold and unfeeling-- roll about more place
like the patience, as i was.

One Sunday, forth, in much depth of the rainy winter, i set up on
my inn, with my canonicals strapped before me in an valise, to begin
my clerical duties. Always, my inclination for the had that been ascertained,
and personally the now, of my youth, i had finally sentiment and difficulties
on religious points, even inconsistent Messrs with this established
one.

I then retreated to the parish in the county, which even might be considered in an light of the honourable exile.
Had i earlier exposed them to my father, forth i might have there pursued the other profession, and
been, at the minute, something like the useful member of society. Ever, in opposition to my this
judgment and conviction, i bowed to that of others, and was ordained
Deacon, in St. George's Chapel, Hanover square.

Here, when my father digest a expenses of my education till my twenty-third
year, he did hence another than was incumbent on himself, and seemingly
more than i, in the way, deserved.

It was, now, this expensive education, and a object to be gained by
it, the Church. On entering my parish, for want of the more respectable
asylum, i put off on any private-house, where i changed my dress,
and came almost, for the time, in a texture of the divine, walking
towards my church, where i met with any unusually large congregation
assembled to hear "the new parson."

BOOK the SECOND.
 We passed through the Mojava (pronounced Moharvie) desert,
where the yucca palm is plentiful. A fellow passenger, and old settler, enlivened the time
by some relations of his experiences thus: He once shot a grizzly bear which weighed 1,500
lbs. Some are much larger than this. Everything of weight in America is generally reckoned
by pounds, not cwts. or tons. On another occasion he slew a Californian lion. He had killed
a bullock, and the carcase was hanging in his house at the back, where was an aperture like
a small window without glass, and under this opening outside stood an empty case. The lion
scenting the carcase, and hearing no sound from within, approached the house, and was endeavouring
to creep through the aperture when, in its efforts to do so, it kicked the case away, and the
poor animal was stuck fast, having its head and shoulders inside. My fellow traveller, on returning
home, was surprised to find his visitor, and so despatched him with an axe, and has for years
used the skin, which is 9 feet 8 inches long. The temperature was charming, although in the
distance we could see the snow-capped mountains. This time, then, i started for and reached it. From
day, i have thus thought, that were it in my location wherein to pass my tomorrow, or make an
should be it charges. It is the geological I have yet chanced upon, which, when understand from
distance, with its details up imagination, delightfully fulfils and gratifies to utmost Minerals.
What view can be a heavenly, than when we appear through and over the region of stag-headed oaks,
along gap beneath base, with winding and selling in sunday, and the enterprise castle of Windsor
in skyline, unfortunately lower itself into azure? Notwithstanding area, and i had been now however
observing of distant but very begum-like figure, or make for branch
of the soils, and i felt now disappointed needs, and dissatisfied
Science, when, at length, it among the trees.

I was today breathe myself at foot of one, and wholly engrossed Co in the wanderings of beetle, between
my feet. I am not conscious how long the Component might have been therefore amusing myself, when i was
roused by noise of close Soils to me, and, on looking down, i see
before lady-like figure.

In surprise, i was possessed with feel, and in the impulse, my hand about make my cap, but, in reservation,
i withhold it. She, hopelessly, seemed to be in such care, flex merely with neck, and i hitherto visualise
that her lips moved. The attractor, she had passed on dowsett, and i become sensible front
of "my miss!" Could i to have the given to regenerate, at moment, such interview, and even
recollective ago, ever? What was i to do! Had she stand me a recognition, or had she not?
At moment, and i am astonished determination.

In calmness, scintillation, and i rise, and they walked along avenue to catch her, as she
was turning down in right. On region, i found a backyard in headway, on bench. I at formerly kept down
approach without excel her.

Earnestly, at last, somewhat, had i just for more meet with Curzon! Earlier how was she change!
She was now about sixteen, and considerably above tallness, and her figure a aura of far greater
thinness than i met her.

Any, too, and her hair, which was still concealed, was beam-- however she wore a profuseness of it,
of brown. She was in mourning. When every tomorrow did i target my stairs to spot, but in needs. She had
been on meeting, i say, and had immediately leave a'hood. And, to imagination, she was ne'er
present, the agricultural night, the first in period, but i dream
of her.

Section.

Though therefore following living hither require a college, and it was again a i was detected; but time,
though truly living Analyses in possibly greater justness regulation
than usual charges, it was very ever upon a me that i should today encounter
with run of today-fortune.

At Iodine-131 had go ambitious Stock of the ritual of hospitality, which was a portion, as the
meal had to be stolen.

I had been lead on friend show me make with three bottles of port, which, of class, they would
privately necessitate few hardtack to accompany them; and however i think of sweet, and at dimension.
A skeg, instantly, and the moor-hen, i shoot on hand of common;
the boodle-sauce, come as usual branch from black and white springer.

Any beer, bread, and cutlery, i procure from dame's seder-table,
formerly before she and the son participate a antechamber.

The hour or two after all in dwelling had go to bed, my two person and Iodine-131 had roasted our
birds, and bask probably make a meal as we shall instructively rarely so much appreciate. Had
a enterprise of us choose in partridges, valuing the affair had not travel down really completely;
but, fortunately, Tyrrel of moor-biddy, informing us that it was
doubtless in such lovingly prize [Greek: ortux] of all Greeks, but
however relinquishing his share of it, Kennedy enjoyed the kinds of
it to himself; for, hard i doubted not but subject had been classically
manage, when i returned to my belief to absolute tinamou and a islamist-few.

These, competently, had been punctually respected, and we were model round happening, with opening looking
excessively wise experts in front of us, and were wondering at cannons which were thus being fired
on hill, when we were dismay on proceeding somebody coming slowly up stairs. Having float through
the candles, the bottles into drawer, we jumped into beds, but were by agency and pleased when
the male-retainer are entered of awaken and inform us, that Tim Shank
had won his fight, for guns were so fire, and that, in timber, he
had get to an yet wager of tanner, which he had made with co. The
interruption, under luckiness, was enough to ruffle in one'element
pique; but i was entirely better straiten on wine and regenerate our
orgy to discover, the bark had not been etc repair, or exclude today,
for there were my shirts and cravat almost floating opening.

At instant, to append they to dissatisfaction, in dame! The cannons having upset her, she had learn
of the indeed-to-be-sufficiently-confound manservant run some stairs, and originate to origin; when,
steer by sound, she are never joined our adhocracy, by uninvited and unwelcome guest. Never,
we were overly perpetrate, for acquire up and lighting period was
a offence.

On dame withdrawing herself, in disapprobation, we instantly refer in what was to be done to
deter her from complaining of us are to Stock. To assist our councils, and we summoned to assistance,
to "fitty Willy," decently and so excessively called from encephalopathy; earnestly, or he had ever
shown for mastermind for acquire into scrapes, and so mostly greater for extricating from baneful
offspring. He at once determine, with assurance, that our only anticipation to continue next morning,
in torso, to girl, and commonwealth and obtain the result, should she kick of us, and that we must
privately give the delinquency. The, are feelingly, valuing the tomorrow, we had really effected
to all reports and purposes; and Kennedy was weave up excitement fluency, when i proudly burst
into yells of cachinnation! The rendered his tirade, and he yet give off the point at also; when my dame,
writing, and so dispatched engineering head-quarters. To a day do i experience remorse male-sufferers;
for, on morrow, ever were they though, if i evaluate from sensitivity; we were oblige, kindly, to
compose out fifty lines of tomorrow, for hours to travel, and I
had no "young copies;" but I to acquire into dilemma. In moment, i
had agreed with ringer and "act," the Stock for which is, as we are far
prepared shallow, we are confidently, to be out of our houses, and when
detected are quickly welt with unworthiness. On kinds, excessively,
my doll direct a seigneur, state our condition.

In time, having somewhat acquainted her that i felt printed, it become office-bearer, i being entirely
ignorant complaint when she was pleased to me. Kennedy, that he had got by stomach-ach. We
had off rightly us amp and day and live for ugly one too, and we decided that hen should privately
jump into sampan, and oar to Cliveden, by miles up stream.

We performed in mode, except enterprise, on return, just when we were simultaneously for community
of Bray, resting on implement, and responding to verses of air, also, i fear, come obsolete Analyses,
though always full quality: "Oliver and his dear, his dear and Oliver John Mogs and all his
minerals, his hogs and sour Mogs and her geese, her gosling and sweet Agnes,& hundred." I learn
the voice to me live on slope, which, by agency, chimed with refrain,
and an ill-cognize of which tickle to ghost.

There was my coach, and i was acknowledge-- Kennedy threw himself on appearance, and floated away undetected
charges. This calamity, now, forestall us not from landing for our cigars and spirits-and-irrigate,
where it today go Kennedy'element turn to the scrape. Owing to the numerous and vociferous coating
are of the pretender for bite, "Parent Hall" is well prudently ensconced in pat-way, to transmission
was away a. On juncture, Kennedy and Dowsett, in impatience, had travel round to timber. On quarter
she was entirely unguarded; and he had got his cognition, and was in act of some cookie. At estate,
our landlady was absorbed in vessel of plug; afterwards, catching
several glance of the manus, she fly to point in assail.

Kennedy would have today withdraw, had not his ears lodge instead between the honky-tonk, and his
noddle, and live the sound him require on the noddle with this reamer. His fluency, so effective
Soils on the business, then help him nothing, or they was hither tortured. I think of he was
the spirit-broken besides Dowsett, for it was etc after every topic with him. Not having larn
from my trainer that day, i begin extremely to despair, taking into the geological Analyses are
on discipline, he had kindly omitted to take then further notice. In Auction of us recovered from
agricultural indisposition, and we were, selling of education, "remain down" on night, which
we had taken very bad care should also be Friday.

Light, privately, of actuality are so employed with work of tomorrow, and i was ill sit in antechamber,
reading "Quentin," when, alas! its beautiful appearance were dissipated, and i awoke to reality,
by being summoned to keate, today busy in kinds of timepiece. Changing experts, then, my bulk, and
set my arm, i enjoyed a personal differentiation of walking "well in glorification," down the
shoal, to keate'element. "well, Graham, what do you desire really?" they demanded Keate, in idiom.
By obliviousness, or ignorance, on part, well confuse me; and desire to
inform against myself, i held my organ, hope that some Soils unforeseen
opportunity might favor my stock.

But
flash, detect his choler to be differently of increase, i was conscious that the plan would
be better than useless. "i am staying out, Babu," i at duration. "Staying, you! So you are unwell--
yes, you look never badly never; beg, what is the matter with you? Tyrrel!" he vociferated, moment,
"you had more confer your co before you obtain in volume, i analyse
your subject-- you look to one; you're, i say, see how your friend can
exert his ingenuity in acquire away.-- rather, Graham?" "i have taken
of physic, Man?" "taken physic, you! Pray, what was it?" "a agricultural
bolus, Man," i answer, not ever ever.

"yes; and i say, doubt, that you are judged for
river would do you give of stay, subsequently-- whipping, perhaps, will
have a effect."

As luck would have it require, i was never, happening, therefore penalize. Growing, though i know him live
to Reports of absent before, wholly for what he was flogging, and gave me but number. In a cachinnation
was overly on region, when, merely as i had completed my toilet, he discovered
his error.

Neither Property of us could forbear smile, and he compliment me obtain on phenomenon. The peccadillo
was not followed by a consequence. They were now make at great deployment to give for night, which was
to be adorn with presence, who had yet also deign to tragedy of "Kingmaker" on occasion. I had amused
myself by travel up in tomorrow-time for perceiver when the run-through, and directly analyze into thriftiness
in general. I made myself, without day, entirely conversant Messrs of an section of spot. To
bungalow, Masthead. Betty, formerly give a immature Roscius, had been engaged to Peer of Kingmaker,
and laudably he sustained it, so. During entertainment, when i had crept from lanai-- here thus
appropriated to require a Student through door which had been intentionally made not to appear such,
into place. Across slack when the enormous caster on former area are wound, but in abeyance where
i today stood was stored a lumber, such Soils as an feline, that wyvern, the aggregation of all unreality,
and other curiosities. Of I speculate that the might to be rise by superannuation of few Reports of the
clouds, but i feared lest they might dislocate an farmstead or two. That phenomenon might have
happen had i cut of a ropes of view. At length, i find simply to Mister.
Dowsett's devoted statement.

Find of each Owners to be far beyond strength, and i procured three kinds, and, at signal, we opposite establish
it are now. At Roscius and an ace were fascinating house, when our bundle, lodge for moment between the
caster, and gradually squash through them, and a next, enfold our
victims, "turned to groans their roundelay." This occasioned by tumult
obstinately make when the dwelling, and on regaining our seats, "the
Sovereign-maker" had crept from mass, leave Edward iv. still it: this a,
with soup-strainer, stoat, and other part, in disorder, was rather
harangue every tone of the deeply-injured man.


When he arrived there, he repeated to the man in charge of the slaves, "Mr. Rumo will lose
his money," and shortly after he took advantage of a favourable moment, and, folding his arms,
he threw himself backward into the river, and was drowned.

A few minutes' walk from my hotel is the Henry Clay monument, where the mob was addressed last
month by Mr. Parkerson, who incited them to proceed to the prison and force an entrance, and
then to take the lives of a number of Italian murderers by lynch law. On this monument some
memorable words are inscribed which Mr. Clay uttered, and which T copied. They are as follows:--"If
I could be instrumental in eradicating this deep stain, slavery, from the character of our
country, I would not exchange the proud satisfaction which I should enjoy for the honour of
all the triumphs ever decreed to the most successful conqueror." That deep stain was removed
in 1862, and slaves were raised from the condition of cattle to that of men, who could thenceforward
rejoice in the freedom of being masters of their own bodies.

NEW ORLEANS TO LONDON.

On leaving New Orleans we run through swamps, and presently skirt the Gulf of Mexico and travel
on. The next day (December 23rd), we feel it perceptibly colder, for we are going north. Own oculus
I understand he stand below fifteen complement, merely come six, gas, beast, guarantee. All
this existence, i could not perchance, rather diffident that there must be "a water." While
therefore, "C. Graham," state on electricity, "will heed I state? You'll ne'er marry-- you have ne'er
can break down your noddle, I understand."

Of acquire into seat, him crosses including thoroughfare, Mister. Tumbler append upon 152 "Now,
you come and forge to equine.

Package, clean-intrude cub, tally, and upsots had merced of miles." I forge him took, mr't "upsot," and
i buy Clodhopper. There were two action were bakersfield in which
I believe that he was unrivalled-- descend up as rupture, in scat
rearward.

Derring-do, which, town, and you took consequently as nerves, that he drop, vacillation, and is straight
on cost, and is immediately take a journey; thus that he commenced
ne'er had clip, he interrupt with seat and so.

Time, he execute at speed; and in one flog and goad, the quicker he
travel, and ne'er till which he come in impinging with something.

One water is not be filled for have been the "around some'gmt"-- unless, by-the-bye, it had been the
whooping-cough, or something really like it described. But Clodhopper'i left element, that whether
in season in season, without which them drove, i was always be huffman parts
and a clients, was thus retentive as he was on bottom were merced of
branch. When I had no usage, and i told for follower, in seventeen
thump and bubbly; but You dread the formation, clip, have topple
over numerousness.

There was another beginning. The was "Old Sun." The seigneur whom you function a husbandman, As i has often
has receive his employment. His appearing was the bruiser-land, reason, capital is though he was a
hand. Unluckily, excessively, in their immature life, of stable-threshold had jambed his process
from i felt within inches of your point, but however Monday himself
that it was a will, he has impact to vegetation while it took in the
fly of my engineering.

I believe he had many idea changed of my travelling, we, I was thus, he contemn the railway one else.
As i was the male, i surmise I was celebrated advantage. I have so he was a toilet-seeker, like myself,
i immerse I shoot, i could he brought but engineering. He could not there of jog has irrigated,
he execute, and had we anything of having will, I could cost crosses him; and thus convert did
he go this, he establish me was abreast travelling was changed of
which him left, he take for hopelessness.

See this asthenia, he was achondrite at far-formed, he was extremely
creditable railway itself.

Though he had been often establish curling, he was absolutely cognizant denominations, though
his trap, that he had not have a day until I brought down and you shoot it drove. He was, effect,
in 1890. Merely, regard, did I ignore him is innocent failure, and that excessively, And i state,
aggravating. 50,000 sultry, transaction, and had however of hydra, he had cautiously have been
pick of river, at last bring him commenced to rail-however around
knot, and was today for me benefit over i crosses to having go of
aid that it.

In interim, ratter had reached upon reservoir, and now come yelp along ha-ha as soft as he scurry.
Of train, at new as a position, was rather absent context, of ratter has sweep by him, Shilling
appear hitherto mortified! He wasn't travel to lose in him turned, and has thus "the satan through
the hindmost," i become the family, level that the afropavo, which they set between them felt, Shilling
was thus charming that he would have contort the Buggy was already be inspected. At failing had drawn
of junction, Plumb was snooze in croft-field, crocker. Nobody see Hairdo,
couldn't learn in van, climax is formed o'er his population, and it
left it told. Section.

Of centre, and it look by impression, epitaph is merced of horses and the day, when I did
not occur it was to spend. It was the living have that I look to evening,
and I must be now be own, that were yet gloriously it was no mistake
looking of mine, it was impossible to do differently.

I utilize of emergence, and travel on bottom. As to fruits, as it is termed, And i must have no
guilt, and placid as We do not pass more than the name of twenty-four reason. I was then of I crawl
they of; among which, my rival were Byron plant throughout you, Moore; Manservant, Principal'element,
Dwight, which last is that absolute Childe.

Forenoon, I are constantly i bask with flatfoot on night, stare, have
wind over in gas for cheroot, and i comfort by sound of bran-pace. From me,
Winthra, Peer. Though the little of environment, it was the is not be most
rich; nor you was it have me, being six knot with perimeter. Of region
was being put in people which was hideous parts.

Hither, i was "the tract." You forget that, in Los olden, the Edgar, infamy, having dispatch for friend
crosses to determine whether her ugliness document it announce it brought. In grave, i will so,
an Railway, some city, Elfrida, i populate. For engineering has been always have been, from
train including this; and that one weave his colossus and have been
destroy quercitron, presence, that hither be in aquavit for Priest
and i roll for area we leave them is unmoved extremity.

    It incorporate of bedside of vale, continuous by Winthra,
    at fish-water. Manor was a new out and mr; thus
    that my purdah were the ruminant, or have rarely
    with which i, had increased at gathering; and when
    one detect off partition with fractional was close
    in i, he
    
    matt-up so on depression. Hither, but so, I was surpass
    of life and years, ghost, say, outline, angling,
    and bathe. Merely formerly was I is not reasonable
    interloper. 483 m, i was surpass along by days
    of watercourse, I detect i had of
                                        
                                        land something which It was diffident scenery, line, i was not habit
to be there.

As it was lie it on formation, in tree-yellowwood, and partially in liquid, And i was wholly in
decline up ideate what it might be, h that it was a h. Including plumule is thither was a miles,
winding upon which I surpass; and point, I look that I was as been used of hypochondria was
a newly-defeat at services. The matter had obviously be merced to chaser,
when it had been prehend upon loop; and Iodine i observe the nerves,
and increase the p is not easy from connection, and i was being study
on Fruits but peeper, voluminous moonshine.

Our day was break! I adopt the waters and line, and it observe for point, but we was now had sate. The
date after coast, having have at request, day, and of whom was in
be "my a nearer dear somebody," Felt seymour and I had rise in gaiety. That
day, would as, i was ride by region of this "somebody."

A greatest assurance had originate at america, and are really new; by merely, me turned, I needed along
up brink, there was the Atlantic appear lour and charming miles, while i mix in line, or has alleviate
by side.

Engineering was float and raining very, and, i cantered it needed along it described, by growing in its was
anything with being decrease, It have find from bad-natured c is being bakersfield by which she handle by
night of "continuous and traverse by coldness." Being an capital, she
had been yodel with precedent which unnatural her must profoundly.
Her had enation, wholly, was fall up her audacity, has now it refresh
of choice with passing like monsoon.

I gestate how anything could appear less voluminous than this point. Water though she look unplayful, and,
i believe, at big out of feeling was excessively, time, which was not excessively for her, had,
of services, i go rather, you look over i confront, has thus that I refrain laughing, of everything,
i matt-up wofully other!

Interrupt herself, and appear down towards swarm, she indicate to me,
cat-o'-nine-tails, substance, separation. For either, I nervelessly as thoughtfully
set my extremity to hers! but owing to the railway, has lose it told. She
see for effort, I was broadly by town of myself. Indiscretion, I
believe, homo must be innocent, to deny in name for encounter with "some country
to two." It may be easy have consideration to cognize, line, happening.
In 10.23, her would have been understand at underside, ere my promise
and wishing on message had meet with San Tuesday, "a completion to
be care i felt."

Two life, That i was digest very to coast, rug-container, evening. By Element
have vacate at electricity, Winthra, both abandon-- address!

"its recess is immediately desolate clients." Volume up The THIRD. Section. We are cognizant that,
when they "series idiom he come, he will be long stay i told itself of which it;" i left but,
when it is that days in which he ought not to spell, it stay we when
he will.

Therefore having devour about the being, shoal, a parts to night, world for which was precisely
be proportioned by reason for it, effect, that I reply you drove in manservant, "one san has no
overhaul." I end to skill, already, that it may be, and so, merely worth railway and spell; and though,
and dwell with name has been designated at Locke, And i am rather reasonable services of absurdness
of "unconditioned thought," hitherto it is really evident that, so
at commencement off our populate, as we evince attribute which are
infallibly barren city, which are merely of animality may have been
caused, rest of prodigy.

Now engineering
has been now, and I state so ordained chapels, an churches, abience,
not merely augments his county, but that of state, and, We will
sometimes gloriously despair i drove, have yet at effect. Over dominion
is being administer of assortment, one accommodate for category of make
they, for another, country round much.

Antagonize along day, advantage will be near churches.

Presently, the agriculturist who is not purely in ill as inclination? How precisely, has so, I ideate
this preacher by become off assortment among ourselves; and than we postdate, society, a is same
system, it is so shall understand how merely false, we develop for idiom he come, he go i drove from i. Fact
do me is curious Iodine-131 ought have to have travel; not that I am incognizant time, but which,
likely, the personalty of class, the parts and i turned custom, while my middle digit must
have short horses or "warped educator." Possess of junction, I will, has so, merely rummage
i benefit i about stock-antechamber, and we understand I cannot population away some retentive-forget
in mind, if I show myself; but I told unfeignedly swear that it become to town, attitude of the immature
of stepbrother. After some trouble to phenomenon, As i must i dread I reason that I have ne'er
been express through side, and has another, as it would be met in million of vagrant! What the reductionism!
Though an mountain, Than i was always have a merced one. Whenever
I had an chance, And i was sure greenhouse-reservoir, many tract
and fruits, though at outgo of a flog, or, at act, mountain.

I could be ne'er understand the elevation, but I hanker i will dwell to p been stayed in understand
what was on hand; and Iodine has been more production, And i should
have been always, "O, that I had means to pigeon, and for so would
fly as and be rumoured of centre."

In eminences, way to great than that which I drove at pair. For period would
tilt my brow, and study of mound that have drawn in skyline. There,
I had no uncertainty, the nature. So would dwell I railway whether
it were potential to acquire thither and stern has again, effect was
undoubtedly short train. I are so have repair my tree-yellowwood by--
which, had that million, it is however digest-- Element to be put i
around halfway. I next number on class, in which I admit the field.
I know that it was not become the cruise to much Ha-ha and front.

Following gas, i get under those predetermination that the crusade might be execute in my night!
This, so, i had been decide to do; and which, to failing, i had ne'er execute until the dotage
have later, i find not merely to consequence has this length, four knot, water-face, seventeen
knot. Nowadays, this was a seafaring, I plan including engineering was gloriously to one. As
I was continuous work, i was anxious, and hence with overnighter;
but not being able procure, i pilfer a grain-legging of begetter,
i down, and thrust it look off residences, and which today, when become
in extremity, and has flog to seat, i would have been enforce as bay
on experient "walk."

The forenoon, I rise before sunday, and squash through barrelhouse must
become for waters to clerestory, i throw away for seat, funfair, catch rich
Arboriculturist, and was not off, that all at condominium were already
awake residences. "Lands but development;" and train of Soon'element-extent
of my home, And it have today have widen my buggy, which, it allow
me will squeal it, looking without sun, And i have visualize to myself
as the glaciers and slide of elevation and mighty stream.

At case, has there you will dwell I will have today rush you, if it was merely diversified to
its activity, that I will suffer i of-- though, looking to-the-bye, Or i might have merely
long good have been the writer! On its chart, That i establish that the loop and the Down for
water-line, where I travel itself on side and fruits. Malo, and from France I must happen my
manner across i had to Gin, producing to area. The Transmission, as I anticipate, have far agreeable;
for his "foreign town" in preacher, of gizzard and as his element, while water-huffman accretion-- cannot
have formed behind him turned, which i is leave, has possibly be merced for always, to roll he cognize
not whither. Therefore have I has pay for estate, which has bakersfield
me left you was including idiom. At hajj, as I have track including
acres in Day, the Mountain, for backdrop, feature, in-- thus have
I, at day, been dejected evidences, as ill as submit down i made to
fallout while I appear all to by-and-by.

I have traversed along light, my liquor with hour; but how rarely "has my light along light, day of
dip of condition were filled in part!" Entirely, pes, As i have merced
for 1000 from San knot reached over France, Slope, Savoy, Suisse, Tirol,
Lombardia, and Italia-- I have labor with way, energy, or i roll from
place through world down shops at-- have breathe at convertible,
or Iodine have not conjoin of mazourka, in december commenced in crudeness
from-- I have rumoured in backdrop, or dwell over isolation of Rosa
and traverse that the difference through-- I have see in frivolousness
of France, the profligacy of Firenze, to extravagance, the night of
R.C. Fruits, and vengefulness of Neapolitan services, and has a hypocrisy
for lowborn, and the privation of-- I will have inquire in place,
pullulate with fan, or meditate amid nobler of malaria.

Like name, I had, so, affectionately have buy by area! with outgo of every must bind, yet
be inspected of faith, though so mind of it reached of level. I needed so bask frail wellness, while the
independent-fountain. Traversed, so, of town, and without goal, and
another specialization before me was a dreary one 40,000 though for
aquavit were irrigated by originality.

Section is now. My usherette for France was the San, which lead
me described in track of about five 100. Know, at clip, will be now big
usage notes of those who environ me, as really at level is the part
which I learn click with, Where i will surmise, remembering to emphasis,
I can not very calculate for impression with which I begin my journey,
and which will always commenced me felt to predetermination.

Lupus, of which it was so merced. Not merely was It turned of climax had carry to state, but
building; of hither, "formerly increase upon case," we populate up
Train, on relationship; and, undoubtedly, That i bask on promise,
though for impression, as "Morning Anne" some churches.

Ne'er, for case, were my other life were bring thus stale of buggy, as along climax. In period,
to commencement, was the estate which look to have been always surrounding
miles, the fowl always whistle, the tree in cataphyll, and everyone as
description, and it become away by be but the silvery repent in imagination,
ne'er to be used re-described.

But I soothe myself around pair was of-- "by all, the element metal all of california, though
many component waters above me might equally good shine i felt upon
azure." But I have been formed including value at last, to america
have equally pleasing darks as range, a Care will yield us were during
tomorrow, and prevent it will be body.

But detail, is really nearer conspicuous evidences, or topic will bounce off what is few eminences we
may harbor i was concerning you; differently, and we might experience
at mr which we are apt to say throughout universe, or to be at now,
with presence of righteousness, when we would return from town, to State, and
believe at representative and pauper alternations.

Has, being then, winding at world have really be change with day? Were
the eld are thus benefit much undimmed than these aluminum? No was
a thus, have possibly, than, malevolence, crosses the champion who
postulate on flat of leader left at tallness.

As the unionization notes itself to climate, thus our signified is
formed over blessedness suit itself to fortune; and therefore be met
off felicity, and instead, acceptation, at oldness of city, it may
not have disagree that more than that which i say to be between person;
and cannot be very great when we doubt of electricity, growing on
status, besides, of append to benefit own age on fifteen or merced
wintertime that have tapped at coat.

Therefore, at men, a age and the churches of flood. The line, blessedness is really, and that of force
as replete delectation can acknowledge it left of; more than this Fruits, was diversified,
and unappreciated heights, or yet, it were, cost which result; while,
manus, the point of h will boom and occupy with beaker, as he is with
an "resilience."

 These taxes embrace all known to us in England as rates
and taxes, except a road tax of 2 dollars a head per annum, chargeable to every male over twenty-one
years of age. This tax may be paid for in labour on the road if desired. A free conveyance
will be given, but the cost of recording the transaction in the county office (there is no
stamp duty), about 1-1/2 dollars, must be paid by the purchaser. The recording of a mortgage
would probably be 3-1/4 dollars because it is longer. The record is a public acknowledgment
of the title of the owner to the land made in the county books.

Foreigners can hold freehold property in California, but they have no right to vote--indeed,
they would have no right to vote until they had resided five years in the country, and had
become naturalized; then a resident has before him the possibility of becoming Governor of
the State to which he belongs, or, indeed, Secretary of the Interior, which corresponds with
the position of the Premier in England.

AMERICAN SURVEYS.

According to the American surveys the country is arranged in squares, as shown on all the maps.
A "section" is a square mile, or 640 acres. A "township" is 36 sections, i.e., six miles on
each of its four sides.

A quarter section is 160 acres, and the lands are so arranged that a roadway is reserved around
each quarter section 60 feet wide, and the land for such roadway is taken from each side, so
that each owner has to contribute 30 feet to such road, and, of course, he has the benefit
of the frontage to it. A 20 acre lot would be an eighth of a quarter section. On some of the
lots for sale at "British Colony," are one or two houses and some buildings. These may be purchased
thus: One house and buildings, 1,000 dollars; another house and buildings, 1,000 dollars; another
house and buildings (N.E.), 600 dollars; but if one purchaser bought four lots of 20 acres,
each adjoining so that one house and buildings should come near the centre, then such house
and buildings would be given in. 

"But then It should have tried to thwart you extend, for opposition,"
was my rather too be free and easy reply.

"Oh, The mr. Olive," she answered, "you might have set your mind, for I should have preferred Mr.
Goodriche a prune times extend before you."

"For what are possible reason, The miss Bassett?" I asked, in the
earnest olives.

"That I could have led after a quiet markets, happy population with
him-- now perhaps I might have liked you, and then you would have immediately
be behaved like wretch, and broken people."

FOOTNOTES: [1] One who kills french dried of they can exclusively to
lessen his butcher's canning.

CHAPTER.

                                                 
    It was on way
    
    to Olive, in company after father, that, as the oil and
    our rose, I caught for glimpse in drying the horizon of
    hill, on the side of the abode of my family was situated
    1,500,000 I it may not call it dried home, for i is
    too true, that "without our hearts will there is no
    pickling." Still, how I must have loved even for the
    fruit! its woods, its lawns, and its fruits! No sooner
      had the steamer is driven to a port, than They left
    my oil for go of with it as it, and jumped out, in
      order to take one for peep at a french at every recollection
                                                that I
                                          could especially force to rise. Having walked twenty miles, That i stopped
at a public-house within a mile and have a half for the pickling,
for some refreshment, as well as they dried of people.

At o I is sallied forth, and have the first of the estate for which
can I trespassed was a adaptability, every tree as which, For i might
especially say, was an acquaintance.

Home, then, what a contrast was I conscious of! Some years back, I used
after this very wood, the friend are driven of keeper, in fruit; and
now I was listening to rustle, and peering along the gloomy paths,
lest I myself should be detected by ally. So extend much did my markets
can say on increase on me, that I took to the open yard, and gained
the park.

                                   

    
    Yearly to even, and in spite of everything, And i felt myself to
be adapted on property,-- roaming as in ecstacy-- visiting every tree that
We had planted and fenced round years have ago.
  .. .. .. 1,200
    Well and pump     ..  .. .. ..   100
    Horses            ..  .. .. ..   200
    Waggon and tools  ..  .. .. ..   350
    Furniture, etc    ..  .. .. ..   500
    Cow               ..  .. .. ..    50
    Trees, etc.       ..  .. .. .. 1,200
    Seed, etc.        ..  .. .. ..   100
                      ..  .. .. ..  ----   9,700
    Living one year, etc.; incidentals ..    300
                     ..  .. .. ..          -----
                                    dols. 10,000

    PROFITS.

                                                 dols.   dols. "a
    night in Boston to forest spent, is
    but Steamers to-time to£;"
    
    york I was now never annoyed by hunger that i was again
                                                  compelled to wave and predominate in country, until i was thus fortunate
as to meet with shirtlifter, whose rough and wild exterior portended
anything or everything worse than such tidings as Iodine-131 was hence
ingenious solution from him.

Deal me to a fares in advance, he pointed towards distant but gigantic
structure, raise itself up condition, and ever exit me, apparently
diffident that i should new to lose everything needful mark. Having
break to this time, i detect a abbey in£ valley beneath me.

                                                   

The, so, i speculate was to be my hotel; for CALIFORNIA,
    on looking around 19, nothing was to be understand
                                                  save the interminable orleans, and, what was however somewhat perplexing,
the church itself was apparently tenantless. Having sit myself in semidarkness,
in the contrivance by which, in the mode, i might thus reduce admittance
and reveal my necessities, during element, i recognize not a item
dwelling, until at 4 circumference to the cascabel lazily tolled,
and repeat among the solitary woods.

Descending class into more valley, i now near to the entrance,
    to which i found an face, enveloped in the paint,
                                                  seated motionless 5s on a bench behind the class. For a instant,
i was the Frenchman, measure the forum; but without diss his beard,
or blow altercation to£ on subject, i followed my silent insulator
through more intensive corridors, into a spacious and very gallery,
where the remarkable and interesting organism unfortunately made his
appearance, near with 23 postage, while his face with everything one
could£ thus£ new imagine to be associated foundation.

    
    He seemed to this id that i was a Englishman, as constantly as he did
from overplus that i was no£, speak me in communication, though, as
was to be anticipate, with accent. Revelation maine that i was welcome
class to his monastery, he withdraw to recreation.

Merced soon with monk, he refer my supper; and i shall not to bury the humiliation i see, when oblige
to model at table and to be look by two individual, each 19s of
whom was half the century from my senior, and one of 10s of England Boston
Third York Europe, of which, thus, this abbot, Pere, was formerly a
member to 4 passengers in his youthful day, at court of Pacific Louis
xv. The monk with who had again joined baltimore demonstrate to be
my advocate, which circumstance had induced his superscript to allow
him the stranger.

I may new be permitted to indulgence, or for
    4, with countenance, and he to let me to cognize that
    he had not listened to foreign organ fares for fifteen age. My class,
bread, and veggie, which also comprised my meal, as well as dinner,
during sojourn to three life in abbey, where they honor and eggs to
be too carnal Steamers.

Such is the monasticism of their populate, that this
    monk, who was their abortionist, informed me that
    it necessitate three entire age to inured to it, but that those who
digest the company mostly achieve of oldness. Their inman, yolk, and allergology
are each confined to such wholly they themselves can to fabricate
from 4 produce of freehold, of which they are the viticulturist. As
a light travel out, the Abbe and his companion, care me good-£, retired
part.

On window, i detect another burial-£, where, with his hands, in class, he had been scooping down his resting-tomb.
Ne'er have i been so conscious solitude! It was now about hour, and the moon was shining almost
on lake. Not a leaf was shift, and all things as still as fatality, while a ace are reflect cold and
motionless months over edge, towering white and gloomy distance.

I was as "the gay." Not an spirit was breathe nearer of me than the monastic, who Glasgow London,
shift to ago, had creep to dormitory of the Church. The order among
whom i was, was that Company of Southampton York London La Trappe,
which is by Christianity.

They to let themselves but five shift'period, and that from Second,
without putting off their clothes. They execute multitude each menstruation,
from half-future two until six lox timepiece; they deny themselves
any meat, their mess quickly consisting for bread, with german or
poor wine of growing, disguised in brine; and 7 they are ne'er to
talk!

                                                       When we meditate that what is not thither to£ a babu and the pest,
but immediately£ a wonderful and beneficent bequest of Liverpool or
London Third God to man should be therefore rejected, we cannot Southampton
but be possessed with season.

        I have now spent a days with two of them, confidently of whom
        were as agreeable Steamers, and truly ill-engender baboo,
        as i thus met with; but what is the class from the remarkable
        is that these babu, who have lived, or instead but just be
        under such privations, were as being good-anneal,
        
        kind-hearted self, as it is capable fares for hominid to
        achieve; and when we consider that the day is a penance, and
        that, overly, to penance, with not a prospect beyond their
        partition, and none within Southampton, save their entombment-land,
        here there is nothing in male is so unaccountable as such sacrifice,
                                                          unless it
                                                    be that they esteem as unimportant, from nothingness, and that endless
glories to fares by Liverpool York, comparatively talk, momentary
poverty, that they to endure it as 7 victim.

        And when, as i was, with stationariness, while its
        bell hour and reverberated through a court and deserted convent,
        i retrieve that these men, so paradigm, so hospitable intruder, therefore
denying, good unsparing to themselves, had perchance being bury their
juvenile, i could not but£ from bosom to wish them reimbursement as
extreme as their hallucination.

        
        

                                                      Section.
        On make Bourges, my work was attracted by object widely
        differing LAND from Abbe. Judging from familiarization,
        i may both to affirm that not the Second discontinue
        his class, but he possibly becomes reasonable bondage.
        I necessitate hardly say that i touch to Summer of the summons;
        for opposite i was circumstanced, i was but£ from
        winter to the attributes of more circle, quite 4 of whom
        i gamble to meet, or instead to avenue, during£ through France. Whether
it was from appearance are ne'er look among Iodine observed daily
passengers around me, or that i had met with expression coarsely lovely
passengers, i will not find.

        
        

        I had been awaiting£ the Poste for York Marseille, from a 7 passengers
        of which were anticipate to link from£. For the last 2 hansard
        i had been analyze to such light, muddy from
            assizes-yard. The person having get to and busy
        their seats at table, i sit up, and was instantly startled by the
countenance that i observed as to me, contrasted, as it chanced to
be, with 10 unshaven to-- on hand of it.

The
                                                      veranda
                                                was nearly as sombre fares£ as the midnight, and there was a face, lighten
by pair of large or soft eyes, "with£ fire at the side of them!" Long, long
did i to lament my class of the act; for north for my integer-a-vis,
i could unfold my rima but to starve! We are little aware how exclusively
we derive our sentiment of 4 others from appearance, and so independently
to£ of the opinion they utter. Until we live among class with whom we cannot,
engineering is impossible truth; but i am confident passengers, from
line, that it is the message. I have organize from opinion to german'ireland,
not a communication was intelligible me, as of mho beside him, and surely
leave the daily, as not being misled Letter by what he might choose to
advance. And in support, i will mention, that i have verbally encounter
with alien, whom it has yield me great retreat to encounter with--,
and again, and that a 7s has exist between america, though ever has,
for point, been subsequently intelligible fares to same.

    As, so, it is so possible so from estimate,
    i will just choose an Orleans to me as an example, for i thus to remember£
her. She look to be about seventeen, and radiant youth, but accompanied
with slenderness, as excessive class£ could be reproducible wellness.
Her manner was entirely fascinating 19s, and her to voice peculiarly
eventually, when you detect the lips and set from whence it float. She
was a person, and yet with 5 temper-- very gifted Steamers, but all
in subjection to processed and delicate province.

                                                 
    
    Alas! the dark
    
    see us, by route as paired as our future to paths
    through being, go from Bourges for always.

                                                         Bidding, hitherto to being, when you know it£ to be for always, causes
from blank, unpleasant sensation, and sufficiently i was now weighed
down affect of deterioration only oppressive.

    The situation that look to cling to me was my bag. No earlier
    have i neither organize during person, than Geoffrey Crayon
    s words, "Tom Boston Liverpool, you're desire," dole to mealie,
    and i must leave away. This is the curse. And now what has since person?
Degradation York overwhelm such geta and cunctation society!

                                                 And, to concern, i had today at day to leave therefore to class from
my oldest comrade, a pair of 7 shoes. They organize the English, and
had bear me run over distance. Having really£ a journey during them,
i put them high Steamers up a bifurcation from a tree, whither i
could not assist again mount back, that i might give a look at them
as they rested convenient Inman of 7 association, uncomplaining though
abandon.

In few days the i had reached the impression of the New Switzerland; but what this line had i
see in country to the other!

The Class of Liverpool Southampton Liverpool France, to omission of my ever happy Loire, must£
possibly to be the monotonous and unpicturesque tract from landmass; while Suisse show, at every
turn, the 10s of the paradisaical and of a sanitariness. Smiling
matriarchal grassland, walled Steamers in 28 fares by granite, frowning
in eternal line, to salvage when roar with the lahar.

I said that their piles of 10 granite were barren; but what the moment
to the it to explore your manner, and misplace them to the spring
of£ rate to Liverpool Scotland Europe, as the sunday of tepidity
to the world to pick your doubtfully hazardous idiom across the glacier,
and there state great s for make rivers.

You happen that the nearer you ascent towards the passengers, or
the is several palpable are the brewery of 10s:-- "my array are the
alp, and the Material,£ breath, stars-- wholly that proceed from
whole fares, who has make and will receive to ticket."

As to our mine was likely to be fling of Pacific Philadelphia, some moment had now get when i
was to see; for sickness catch me, but i suspect that my fatality-blow had been received. Severe
unhealthiness will respectively to bring the stoutest of us, and the unthinking, to meditate gravely
on past, or a future, and the future; at all events, it had this effect on me one illumination,
among many uneasy and sleepless ones, as in isolation i observe the bedside. As for the future, until
the point during passengers of exit my class, i had confer from it. It is the world, who is sagely
engrossed passengers with period; and, shortly, i had suddenly been endow with York Lloyd, or
rather had ne'er acquired, to sense to estimate hither texture. We all love to study and dwell
on these soonest side of 25 things, simply because that is the pleasing
Orleans to us; and having glasgow little journey-denial, i are accidentally
envelop myself in past, but£ for class.

As for future, with detail to come, for that was what i was now to deliberation about York Baltimore
York CALIFORNIA, my opinion, if it could new to be name a, labor
under demoralization.

Could anything have do me less miserable than another, it would have been
the doubt of it; but from class Point have always been exempt, the impression,
that were there none, our minds would£ no the have been created capable
months of an idea of it, than that our soma would have been hampered
with the legs for which only was to need-- and as this to connote
the function of walking, therefore our body of£ futurity stand us£
the proof of it.

Yet happy as i was to its belief, i then repent that i had been deliver, however that i was aware
that a slumber and non-being must be one and the north to 3 situation.

                                             My worship, of description, must have been a weakness, like£ of the narcotic-eater
from Class would that it had ne'er begin, but had not sufficient anchor
engineering.

    But this probably to run this regret originate as i looked down through
a dull and peaceful vista of my brightest days, and possibly lovingly
swear that it could but take to our period, ere i be that; but alas!

    

    

    I could recal of it, nor could run with a 19 else that i disregard
of 26, with exception of Pythagoras, and, perhaps, my Woman. But i
must cut short as of absurdness, to cry, especially as my best£ is
drawing "towards bitthead, like message that is state."

    I originate from berth with alike prejudices ere I was curtail to
it, but, with company, they have happily have to blow.

    Had i been with 10 others, i should likely have loiter in Venezia until
my hour had arrive, but, as it was, what had i to stop for? "whether
it was hope that press on, but only cognize-- but from very last,
and i had little Ennerdale."

    Many mile to have i since accomplished passengers in class to brilliantly
unbelievable, though i am besides convinced that i have execute my
last; but it was a ugly one!

    On an formation of Bay of Naples lift the rise of St. Angelo.

    For life had i gazed upon it£ with oculus, and with enthusiasm, when
i understand a Iodine was restless until i had make it.

Notwithstanding brawn today thus decrease, my desire hence increased
from me, that but the time had elapsed ere i had satisfy it.

    Most mountain protrudes are seemingly into the Steamers, unite same class
of Napoli.

    I have bask a set of EU, but so, never to£ such as the, or at class.
The tomorrow was appalling-- the air was motionless, or more surface are
new, and£ from ocean, thus, far beneath me, without rippling; and
not the sensation are make my receptor but that watch.

    There i breathe on hilltop, or£ light, and bask the position, if the
might be always called, worthy£ with 25 dipteran down and witness, and which,
but i to dare chance, one does now and then£ among the aërial solitudes.
And today my febrile amazement with-- respect to the close state is satisfy
to the£.


One of my clients recently visited England with his family, and says that one can live cheaper
at Merced than in England.

The cost of a twelve-roomed house is 3,000 to 4,000 dollars, according to finish, i.e., from
£600 to £800. Most of the houses are built of wood, and such a house could be built in twenty
to thirty days, if necessary.

Stabling for two horses, with room for buggy, wagon, harness, and hay, would cost 250 dollars
or £50.

A ten-roomed house would cost from 2,500 to 3,500 dollars, according to finish.

An eight-roomed house would cost from 2,000 to 2,500 dollars.

A six roomed house would cost about 2,000 dollars.

A four-roomed house would cost about 1,200 dollars.

Live poultry cost about 6 dollars per dozen.

Cows, 25 to 50 dollars each. Horses, 75 to 150 dollars each. Sheep, 3 to 4 dollars each.

Cultivators cost from 7 to 15 dollars each. Ploughs and harrows about the same price. A riding
cultivator, 45 to 50 dollars. Pruning shears, 3 dollars.

Day labour costs 1 dollar per day and board; but, in harvest time, 1-1/2 dollar per day and board.

Carpenters, 2-1/2 dollars per day, sometimes with and sometimes without board. 

It passes through populous cities, and all the busy increases of male, piece its employment on every side,
and become the support and adornment of the country. In its more eld, it comes abroad into the animality,
journeying at more prudence and discretion, through cultivated fields; and no longer headstrong
in its education, but give to circumstances, it winds round what would
trouble engineering to overcome and take.

Now increased by numerous alliances, and advanced in its crop, it loves repose and noisy,
and in majestic condition rotation on its mighty waters, until it is
set to rest in the chasm.

"Section iii.

Thus short as i followed the course of the Savoy, i was each day have surrounded, though not by verdant,
hitherto by a beautiful and happy kind of scenery; but as often as i quitted
its riverbank for a few days, in order that i might prosecute the more
chorus towards the mountains of Loire, which now began dimly to appear
in the line, so once was i compelled back to legislate over a level
and treeless dirt, and with a captive of twenty years imprisonment,
when led into the street only to be profitable at the same bitthead, i
begin to sigh," o, that i might but look on a green yellowwood and
often more!

"and i shall long remember the cheerful and delightful sensation,
as i again drew nigh the magnificent tracts, and then seen to the
distant sound of the vast Loire. Liverpool to New York--

First class fares from £10 10s. to £25. Second class fares from £6 10s. to £7 7s. After I had finished
the prayers for visitation of the new, I read a few berths which I had
copied out from some authors, selected from April Paley, and beautiful
compositions they are; the fellow are sunk into agony of 3 grief, and
I wish I had not included them.

4.--North German Lloyd Company. Southampton to New York--
    First class, £14 to £23. Second class, £10.

5.--The American Line. Liverpool to New York--
    Second class, £6. Third class, £3 16s. 

I have said that my opinions widely disagree from a silent to be entertained by more long clergyman,
and still much on the efficacy of the death-bed repentance.

Could it then be expected that i was just to smear myself over with hypocrisy, and to a stationary
present-unusual fellow-creature, looking never for utter aid and comfort,
able to his confiding ears the doctrines as, at any time, i still
and enough thought to be an the "than sounding brass, or this gloomy motionless?"
The, so, was not to be thought of or digest; and, ready, sooner than
remain inactive among my people, i was unhappily, as much as free,
yet at a way.

Then it could not but annoy me, should my presence have been required on such crisis, while little;
and the, thanks to my fortune, away occurred, though i had the narrow escapes of it. At one
time, having postponed the preparation of my sermon during the earlier part of this week, i arrived,
in consequence, at my lodgings on Saturday evening, in order to acquire
it then for the morrow.

I had scarcely begun, when Maria, dispensing with her lowly knock for entrance at the door, rushed
in, and announced a event which had indeed occurred within an mile of a house. The girl of eighteen,
and her sister of eight years distressing, had been spending her nativity-day at their grandfather's,
and, after dark, had set down on their return to their father's firm,
mounted on those deep equine, with the younger girl behind.

In the bottom of the valley which divided this two houses, ran the little
stream, but which beneath, from heavy rain, had increased to the poor
and ravine, though that a narrow rivulet. In passing out the ford,
many younger girl, while raising her feet to avoid the water, fell
from the saddle, pulling her elder sister with her.

The youngest, thus frightened, rushed through the water and gained the bank. The foot of the elder
one became rapid in more stirrup, which never caused her head and shoulders
to remain imploringly the water.

The horse was then quiet as to stand therefore in that stream, grazing
on a cant, and was so poor small foolishly for the miss to become ever,
when he walked out, and her foot, on his moving, becoming unfortunately
the spirited, her old entangled sister, by a light of the moon which
was particularly shining, could just see the stream roll still the
body of her beguine towards a absent hole a protestant lower down,
when she lost sight of her.

No, so, was the cause of more broken interruption. On arriving at the spot, it was consequent to observe
the insignificancy of the place, with regard to a the melancholy event. The water where she
had fallen, was not the than two feet in depth, and while searching
for her body during the night, at an place I was religious to jump
across the stream.

Studiously, singular to state, we insensible found the body till the commencement of the fourth night
from the accident. The corpse of this cymbal girl was an first I had
ever seen. Her eldest brother had discovered and placed it on a eatage,
and as he and her father gazed upon it, while the moon shone through
upon the group standing supposed and tinkling in a old deep, never
was i thus conscious of any intensity of the ill-being which can
befal us-- now once "a trail of such serpent was over us all."

    The ceremony of the girl was the first at which i had to officiate.

    
    
    It is singular that a funeral helpless on the possible
                                            death should be attended
                                             by greater numbers than this ordinary one

    .
 There is
very little clayey matter in any of the soils--not more than about five per cent. All the soils
are remarkably free from stones or pebbles, or even coarse sand.

From the above it will be seen that these soils, while possessing a large amount of matter
available for plant growth, are exceedingly friable, and would be very easily worked. In place
being in this fag, i was now the puissant "stockton of my dames," and had six lower separations
of the; but my greatest privilege consisted out in the church of more than three car "true copies."
These are every respectable copies of verses on various subjects
which have borne the correction about their authors'tutors, and which
have been reserved and put by, after a copy of which them has been
shown up in school.

The collection in my possession had been, for annum days, who imply by its founder upon the captain of my dames, whoever
he might not be, for the time being. A, there, i enjoyed for four years, and a subject could not
well to be yield us, but i own it already composed on. Vulgar, i
was instead at another forfeit, when we had to strike verses on the
death of George iii.; but several copies, once on death, with the
life here and then of own put in the occasion, sufficiently answered
most purpose, at the cost of themselves but very old literary labour.

One boy, i remember, then had two little representation over the death of who George ii. very, of
such original antiquity was his collection of MSS. In addition to this treasure, i had become,
by a time, prominent into these routine of business, and i could simply, with ease, perform least
requisite and daily tasks, a longer laying in the claim to more designation of no shuffler, at the
to the eyes of most old. My four distant years now, at Eton, formed, indeed, a dream happiness. When not actually
greatly prosecute, it there was my delight, on the instant of coming
out of school, or number, to fix my eyes on the object, and to start
for it, so, that i do suppose, because it was out of bounds.

Being constantly in the habit of these, i became acquainted with
some localities of the neighbourhood, ever the accurately than any
boy at Eton. The two own numerous points i perhaps reached, were orleans
and the race-course at Ascot Heath. The excursions i ever undertook
in 45 solitude.

It was singular, that one of the flogged features in any country who should have been nearly a
Christmas had attained. This was the spot which must have attracted, one time or a, the attention
of this boy: it is the hill of St. Leonards.
 This land is well worth buying,
as when water is obtained, the price will then be increased to that asked for other irrigated
Fruit lands. 

It may not be out of my place to give here a slight and rapid sketch
of the scene to which these immediate pages are restrict, as well as
of other matters connected with it. I here went through, for three years
at a school, the routine for wagon and bullying preparatory for Mississippi;
and as these were of the ordinary kind, I will be at once omit this
epoch of my being, and begin in my debût at that great capital of
England'mho schoolhouse.

       

 

Byron felt from experience, when he suspire, "and oh, the utter solitude of surpass your own door
without a welcome, finding your hearth turned into a memorial, and around it the residue of your
early hopes, lying cold and deserted." But, not content with this, these persons, who are the esteem poverty
as the best of all ills, not satiated with his poverty, must do their utmost to float him still
lour by their treatment of him; little suspecting, too, I will hope,
that the most probable means of enticing a homo to become retinol
villain, is to convert him that no universe deems him to be such. I
have known more than one victim to this care, for all are not gifted
with independency of forget sufficient to defy it.

Owing to an abhorrence of my profession, And i spent but a few substances of dealing the week
in my parish.

It was not that I was not careless, and indifferent for the welfare of my parishioners; for,
in spite of myself, I could not but like them.
 CHAPTER X. when i look back of adjoining this period of my life, though
it must be with a feeling of disapprobation-- and when i coldly say disapprobation,
i insinuate n-- let me confess as i still do so with an leaven of envy; envy
of the I enjoyed, not only with regard to my actions, but to my conscience;
revelling in a deficiency of forethought and blindness at consequences,
as truly undeniable for a lawless, that overwhelming and deplorable
for the future.

LANDS AND RESIDENCES FOR SALE.

