2. The Scripture doth not always confine it self to the original Meaning of all these Words;
for Psalmos a Psalm, and the Word psallo, are used, 1 Cor. 14. and in other Places of the New
Testament, where we can never suppose the primitive Church in those Days {237} had Instruments
of Music. And the Word Ode a Song, is used several times in the Book of Revelations, where
Harps are join'd with Voices in the Emblematical Prophesy.

3. The Sense therefore of these Words in the New Testament seems to be thus distinguish'd.
A Psalm is a general Name for any thing that is sung in Divine Worship, whatsoever be the particular
Theme or Matter; and the Verb psallo is design'd to express the Melody it self rather than
to distinguish the Matter of the Song, or Manner whereby the Melody or Music is performed;
and therefore in Eph. 5. 19. our Translators have well rendred adontes kai psallontes, Singing
and making Melody; and it should be thus rendred, Jam. 5. 13.  Is any merry, let him make Melody.
I confess in the New Testament the Noun Psalmos refers generally to the Book of Psalms, and
without Doubt there are many of the Palms of David and Asaph, and other Songs among the Books
of the Old Testament which may be prudently chosen and sung by Christians, and may be well
accomodated to the Lips and Hearts of the Church under the Gospel. Yet this Word is once used
in another Sense, as I shall show afterwards.

An Hymn, whether imply'd in the Verb humneo, or exprest in the Noun Humnos, doth always retain
its original Signification, and intend a Song whose Matter or Design is Praise: Nor is there
any thing in the Nature or Use of the Word either in Scripture or other {238} Authors, that
determines it to signify an immediate Inspiration, or humane Composure.

A Song, Ode, denotes any Theme or Subject compos'd into a Form fit for Singing, and seems to
intend somewhat suited to the Gospel-State, rather than any Jewish Psalms or Songs in all the
five Verses in the New Testament where it is used.

Eph. 5. 19. & Col. 3. 16. 'Tis join'd with the word Spiritual; and that seems to be used by
the Apostle in all his Epistles, as a very distinguishing Word between the Law and Gospel,
the Jewish and the Christian Worship. The Jews had carnal Ordinances, and carnal Commandments,
and their State and Dispensation is often called Flesh, but the Church under the Gospel is
a spiritual House, blessed with spiritual Blessings, endow'd with spiritual Gifts, to worship
God in Spirit and in Truth, to offer spiritual Sacrifices, and to sing spiritual Songs.

Col. 3. 16. Confirms this Sense, for the Word of Christ must dwell richly in us in Psalms and
Hymns, and spiritual Songs. Now tho the Books of the Old Testament may in some Sense be called
the Word of Christ, because the same Spirit which was afterwards given to Christ the Mediator
did inspire them; yet this seems to have a peculiar reference to the Doctrine and Discoveries
of Christ under the Gospel, which might be compos'd into spiritual Songs for the greater Ease
of Memory in learning, teaching and admonishing one another.

{239} Rev. 5. 9. & 14. 3.  There is mention of a New Song, and that is pure Evangelical Language,
suited to the New Testament, the New Covenant, the new and living Way-.of Access to God, and
to the new Commandment of him who sits upon the Throne, and behold, he makes all things new.
I might here remark also, that when a new Song is mention'd in the Old Testament, it refers
to the Times of the Messiah, and is prophetical of the Kingdom of Christ, or at least it is
a Song indited upon a new Occasion publick or personal, and the Words of it are accomodated
to some new Tokens of Divine Mercy.

Rev. 15. 3. As Moses was a Redeemer from the House of Bondage, and a Teacher of Divine Worship
with Harps and Ceremonies; so the Lamb is a Redeemer from Babylon and spiritual Slavery, and
he {240} is the great Prophet to teach his Church the spiritual Worship of the Gospel. The
Church now, under the Salvations and Instructions of the Lamb, sings with the Voice to the
Glory of the Vengeance and the Grace of God, as Israel  under the Conduct of Moses sung with
Harps; for we must observe, that these Visions of the Apostle John often represent Divine Things
in a Gospel-Church, in Imitation of the Ranks and Orders of the Jewish Camp and Tribes, and
by the Rites and Figures used in the time of Moses; and it would be as unreasonable to prove
from this Text, that we must sing the very words of the 15th of Exodus in a Christian Church,
as to prove from this Book of the Revelations that we must use Harps and Altars, Censers, Fire
and Incense. Yet after all, if it could be proved, that the very Song which Moses sung is here
design'd, still it must be confest that the Song of the Lamb is also to be sung; and if the
following Words in this Text are not to be esteem'd the Song of Moses, then neither are they
to be esteem'd the Song of the Lamb; because there is not any express mention of the Lamb,
or his Death, or Resurrection, or Redemption; nor is there any other Song in Scripture that
bears that title and consequently it must signifie a Song compos'd {241} to the praise of God
for our deliverance by the Lamb, in imitation of the Joy composed for deliverance by the Hand
of Moses: And thus at least we are to suit part of our Psalmody to the Gospel-State as well
as borrow part from the Old Testament, which is the chief point I designed to prove.

The next Enquiry then proceeds thus: How must the Psalms of David and other Songs borrowed
from Scripture, be translated in order to be sung in Christian Worship? Surely, it will be
granted, that to prepare them for Psalmody under the Gospel, requires another sort of Management
in the Translation, than to prepare them merely for Reading as the Word of God in our Language,
and that upon these two accounts:

First, If it be the duty of the Churches to sing Psalms, they must necessarily be turned into
such a sort of Verse and Metre as will best fit them for the whole Church to join in the Worship:
Now this will be very different from a Translation of the original Language word for word;
for the Lines must be confined to a certain number of Syllables, and the Stanza or Verse to
a certain number of Lines, that so the Tune being short the people may be acquainted with it,
and be ready to sing without much difficulty; whereas if the Words were merely translated out
of the Hebrew as they are for reading, every Psalm must be set through to music, and every
Syllable in it must have a particular musical Note belonging to itself, as in Anthems {242}
that are sung in Cathedrals: But this would be so exceeding difficult to practise, that it
would utterly exclude the greatest part of every Congregation from a Capacity of obeying God's
Command to sing. Must we must be content to the lectisternia in 399 as the earliest authentic example
of the tendency of the roman plebs.

[550] if we can here judge something to this period of d Roman hebrew history by the tendency of
the policy of the government, we may see here a attempt to include the population in worship of
a kind that would calm its fears, must engage its attention, and satisfy its emotion, while
leaving uncontaminated the old ritual that had served the State so long.
 For it will often happen, that
one of the most affectionate and most Spiritual Words in the Prose will not submit to its due
Place in the Metre, or does not end with a proper Sound, and then it must be secluded, and
another of less proper Sense be put in the Room of it: Hereby some of the chief Beauties and
Excellencies of David's Poetry will be omitted and lost, which if not reviv'd again, or recompenc'd
by some lively or pathetic Expression in the English, will necessarily debase the Divine Song
into Dullness and Contempt: And hereby also it becomes so far different from the inspired Words
in the Original Languages, that it is very hard for any Man to say, {243} that the Version
of Hopkins and Sternhold, the New-England or the Scots Psalms, are in a strict Sense the Word
of God. Those Persons therefore that will allow nothing to be sung but the words of inspiration
or Scripture ought to learn the Hebrew Music, and sing in the Jewish Language; or at least
I can find no Congregation with which they can heartily join according to their own Principles,
but the Congregation of Choristers in Cathedral Churches, who are the only Levites that sing
Praise unto the Lord with the Words of David and Asaph the Seer, 2 Chron. 29. 30.

Secondly, Another Reason why the Psalms ought not to be translated for Singing just in the
same manner as they are for Reading, is this, that the Design of these two Duties is very different:
By Reading we learn what God speaks to us in his Word; but when we sing, especially unto God,
our chief Design is, or should be, to speak our own Hearts and our Words to God. By Reading
we are instructed what have been the Dealings of God with Men in all Ages, and how their Hearts
have been exercis'd in their Wandrings from God, and Temptations, or in their Returns and Breathings
towards God again; but Songs are generally Expressions of our own Experiences, or of his Glories;
we acquaint him what Sense we have of his Greatness and Goodness, and that chiefly in those
Instances which have some Relation to us: We breath out our Souls towards him, and make {244}
Addresses of Praise and Acknowledgment to him. Tho I will not assert it unlawful to sing to
God the Words of other Men which we have no Concern in, and which, are very contrary to our
Circumstances and the Frame of our Spirits; yet it must be confest abundantly more proper,
when we address God in a Song, to use such Words as we can for the most part assume as our
own: I own that 'tis not always necessary our Songs should be direct Addresses to God; some
of them may be mere Meditations of the History of Divine Providences, or the Experiences of
former Saints; but even then, if those Providences or Experiences cannot be assum'd by us as
parallel to our own, nor spoken in our own Names; yet still there ought to be some Turns of
Expression that may make it look at least like our own present Meditation, and that may represent
it as a History which we our selves are at that time recollecting. I know not one Instance
in Scripture, of any later Saint singing any part of a Composure of former Ages, that is not
proper for his own Time, without force Expressions that tend to accommodate or apply it. But
there are a multitude of Examples amongst all the Scriptural Songs, that introduce the Affairs
of preceding Ages in the Method I have described. Psal. 44. 1, &c. When David is recounting
the Wonders of God in planting the Children of Israel in the Land of Canaan, he begins his
Song thus, We have heard with our Ears O God, our Fathers have told us {245} what Works thou
didst in their Days, in times of old, how thou didst drive Out the Heathen with thy Hand, and
plantedst them, how thou didst afflict The People, and cast them out. Psal. 78. So he relates
the Converse and Covenant of God with Abraham, Isaac and Israel, as a Narration of former Providences
and Experiences, Psal. 105. 8, 9, 10, &c. So in the Virgin Mary's Song, and the Song of Zecharia.
And I know not any thing can be objected here, but that a Prophet perhaps in some instances
may assume the Words of Christ or the Saints in following Ages; but it should be observed that
this is almost always in such Respects wherein Persons or Circumstances present were typical
of what is future, and so their Cases become parallel.

By these Considerations we are easily led into the true Method of translating ancient Songs
into Christian Worship. Psalms that are purely Doctrinal, or meerly Historical, are Subjects
for our Meditation, and may be translated for our present Use with no Variation, if it were
possible; and in general, all those Songs of Scripture which the Saints of following Ages may
assume for their own: Such are the 1st, the 8th, the 19th, and many others. Some Psalms may
be apply'd to our Use by the Alteration of a Pronoun, putting {246} They in the place of We,
and changing some Expressions which are not suited to our Case into a Narration or Rehearsal
of God's Dealings with others: There are other Divine Songs which cannot properly be accommodated
to our Use, and much less be assum'd as our own without very great Alterations, (viz.) such
as are filled with some very particular Troubles or Enemies of a Person, some Places of Journeying
or Residence, some uncommon Circumstances of a Society, to which there is scarce any thing
parallel in our Day or Case: Such are many of the Songs of David, whose Persecutions and Deliverances
were very extraordinary: Again, such as express the Worship paid unto God by carnal Ordinances
and Utensils of the Tabernacle and Temple. Now if these be converted into Christian Songs in
our Nation, I think the Names of Ammon and Moab may be as properly chang'd into the Names of
the chief Enemies of the Gospel, so far as may be without publick Offence: Judah and Israel
may be called England and Scotland, and the Land of Canaan may be translated into Great Britain;
The cloudy and typical Expressions of the legal Dispensation should be turned into Evangelical
Language, according to the Explications of the New Testament: And when a Christian Psalmist,
among the Characters of a Saint, Psal. 15. 5. meets with the Man that puts not out his Money
to Usury, he ought to exchange one that is no Oppressor for an Oppressor or Extortioner, since
Usury {247} is not utterly forbidden to Christians, as it was by the Jewish Law; and wheresoever
he finds the Person or Offices of our Lord Jesus Christ in Prophecy, they ought rather to be
translated in a way of History, and those Evangelical Truths should be stript of their Vail
of Darkness, and drest in such Expressions that Christ may appear in 'em to all that sing.
When he comes to Psal. 40. 6. and reads there Words, Mine Ears hast thou opened, he should
learn from the Apostle to say, A Body hast thou prepared for me, Heb. 10. 5. Instead of binding
the Sacrifice with Cords to the Horns of the Altar, Psal. 118. 27. we should offer up Spiritual
Sacrifices (that is the Prayer and Praise of the Heart and Tongue) acceptable to God by Jesus
Christ, 1 Pet. 2. 5. Where there are any dark Expressions, and difficult to be understood in
the Hebrew Songs, these should be left out in our Psalmody, or at least made very plain by
a Paraphrase. Where there are Sentences, or whole Psalms, that can very difficultly be accommodated
to our Times, they may be utterly omitted. Such is Psal. 150. part of the 38, 45, 60, 68, 81,
108. and some others, as well as a great part of the Song of Solomon.

