I had some doubts yet as to the event that had taken place; for I did not like to abandon myself
to belief, until the word was pronounced by some one in whom I could have faith.  By chance
I met D'O, and I asked him. He answered me clearly that Monseigneur was no more.  Thus answered,
I tried not to be glad.  I know not if I succeeded well, but at least it is certain, that neither
joy nor sorrow blunted my curiosity, and that while taking due care to preserve all decorum,
I did not consider myself in any way forced to play the doleful.  I no longer feared any fresh
attack from the citadel of Meudon, nor any cruel charges from its implacable garrison.  I felt,
therefore, under no constraint, and followed every face with my glances, and tried to scrutinise
them unobserved.

It must be admitted, that for him who is well acquainted with the privacies of a Court, the
first sight of rare events of this nature, so interesting in so many different respects, is
extremely satisfactory. Every countenance recalls the cares, the intrigues, the labours employed
in the advancement of fortunes--in the overthrow of rivals: the relations, the coldness, the
hatreds, the evil offices done, the baseness of all; hope, despair, rage, satisfaction, express
themselves in the features.  See how all eyes wander to and fro examining what passes around--how
some are astonished to find others more mean, or less mean than was expected!  Thus this spectacle
produced a pleasure, which, hollow as it may be, is one of the greatest a Court can bestow.

The turmoil in this vast apartment lasted about an hour, at the end of which M. de Beauvilliers
thought it was high time to deliver the Princes of their company.  The rooms were cleared.
M. le Duc de Berry went away to his rooms, partly supported by his wife.  All through the night
he asked, amid tears and cries, for news from Meudon; he would not understand the cause of
the King's departure to Marly.  When at length the mournful curtain was drawn from before his
eyes, the state he fell into cannot be described.  The night of Monseigneur and Madame de Bourgogne
was more tranquil.  Some one having said to the Princess, that having--no real cause to be
affected, it would be terrible to play a part, she replied, quite naturally, that without feigning,
pity touched her and decorum controlled her; and indeed she kept herself within these bounds
with truth and decency.  Their chamber, in which they invited several ladies to pass the night
in armchairs, became immediately a palace of Morpheus.  All quietly fell asleep.  The curtains
were left open, so that the Prince and Princess could be seen sleeping profoundly. They woke
up once or twice for a moment.  In the morning the Duke and Duchess rose early, their tears
quite dried up.  They shed no more for this cause, except on special and rare occasions.  The
ladies who had watched and slept in their chamber, told their friends how tranquil the night
had been.  But nobody was surprised, and as there was no longer a Monseigneur, nobody was scandalised.
Madame de Saint-Simon and I remained up two hours before going to bed, and then went there
without feeling any want of rest.  In fact, I slept so little that at seven in the morning
I was up; but it must be admitted that such restlessness is sweet, and such re-awakenings are
savoury.

Horror reigned at Meudon.  As soon as the King left, all the courtiers left also, crowding
into the first carriages that came.  In an instant Meudon was empty.  Mademoiselle Choin remained
alone in her garret, and unaware of what had taken place.  She learned it only by the cry raised.
Nobody thought of telling her.  At last some friends went up to her, hurried her into a hired
coach, and took her to Paris.  The dispersion was general.  One or two valets, at the most,
remained near the body. La Villiere, to his praise be it said, was the only courtier who, not
having abandoned Monseigneur during life, did not abandon him after his death.  He had some
difficulty to find somebody to go in search of Capuchins to pray over the corpse.  The decomposition
became so rapid and so great, that the opening of the windows was not enough; the Capuchins,
La Vrilliere, and the valets, were compelled to pass the night outside.

At Marly everybody had felt so confident that the King's return there was not dreamt of.  Nothing
was ready, no keys of the rooms, no fires, scarcely an end of candle.  The King was more than
an hour thus with Madame de Maintenon and other ladies in one of the ante-chambers.  The King
retired into a corner, seated between Madame de Maintenon and two other ladies, and wept at
long intervals.  At last the chamber of Madame de Maintenon was ready.  The King entered, remained
there an hour, and then 'went to bed at nearly four o'clock in the morning.

Monseigneur was rather tall than short; very fat, but without being bloated; with a very lofty
and noble aspect without any harshness; and he would have had a very agreeable face if M. le
Prince de Conti had not unfortunately broken his nose in playing while they were both young.
He was of a very beautiful fair complexion; he had a face everywhere covered with a healthy
red, but without expression; the most beautiful legs in the world; his feet singularly small
and delicate.  He wavered always in walking, and felt his way with his feet; he was always
afraid of falling, and if the path was not perfectly even and straight, he called for assistance.
He was a good horseman, and looked well when mounted; but he was not a bold rider.  When hunting--they
had persuaded him that he liked this amusement--a servant rode before him; if he lost sight
of this servant he gave himself up for lost, slicked his pace to a gentle trot, and oftentimes
waited under a tree for the hunting party, and returned to it slowly.  He was very fond of
the table, but always without indecency. Ever since that great attack of indigestion, which
was taken at first for apoplexy, he made but one real meal a day, and was content,--although
a great eater, like the rest of the royal family.  Nearly all his portraits well resemble him.

As for his character he had none; he was without enlightenment or knowledge of any kind, radically
incapable of acquiring any; very idle, without imagination or productiveness; without taste,
without choice, without discernment; neither seeing the weariness he caused others, nor that
he was as a ball moving at hap-hazard by the impulsion of others; obstinate and little to excess
in everything; amazingly credulous and accessible to prejudice, keeping himself, always, in
the most pernicious hands, yet incapable of seeing his position or of changing it; absorbed
in his fat and his ignorance; so that without any desire to do ill he would have made a pernicious
King.

His avariciousness, except in certain things, passed all belief.  He kept an account of his
personal expenditure, and knew to a penny what his smallest and his largest expenses amounted
to.  He spent large sums in building, in furniture, in jewels, and in hunting, which he made
himself believe he was fond of.

It is inconceivable the little he gave to La Choin, whom he so much loved.  It never exceeded
four hundred Louis a quarter in gold, or sixteen hundred Louis a year, whatever the Louis might
be worth.  He gave them to her with his own hand, without adding or subtracting a pistole,
and, at the most, made her but one present a year, and that he looked at twice before giving.
It was said that they were married, and certain circumstances seemed to justify this rumour.
As for instance, during the illness of Monseigneur, the King, as I have said, asked Madame
de Maintenon if she had seen Mademoiselle Choin, and upon receiving negative reply, was displeased.
Instead of driving her away from the chateau he inquired particularly after her!  This, to
say the least, looked as though Mademoiselle Choin was Monseigneur's Maintenon--but the matter
remained incomprehensible to the last.  Mademoiselle Choin threw no light upon it, although
she spoke on many other things concerning Monseigneur. In the modest home at Paris, to which
she had retired for the rest of her days.  The King gave her a pension of twelve thousand livres.

Monseigneur was, I have said, ignorant to the last degree, and had a thorough aversion for
learning; so that, according to his own admission, ever since he had been released from the
hands of teachers he had never read anything except the article in the "Gazette de France,"
in which deaths and marriages are recorded.  His timidity, especially before the King, was
equal to his ignorance, which indeed contributed not a little to cause it.  The King took advantage
of it, and never treated him as a son, but as a subject.  He was the monarch always, never
the father. Monseigneur had not the slightest influence with the King.  If he showed any preference
for a person it was enough!  That person was sure to be kept back by the King.  The King was
so anxious to show that Monseigneur could do nothing, that Monseigneur after a time did not
even try.  He contented himself by complaining occasionally in monosyllables, and by hoping
for better times.

The body of Monseigneur so soon grew decomposed; that immediate burial was necessary.  At midnight
on Wednesday he was carried, with but little ceremony, to Saint-Denis, and deposited in the
royal vaults.  His funeral services were said at Saint-Denis on the 18th of the following June,
and at Notre Dame on the 3rd of July.  As the procession passed through Paris nothing but cries,
acclamations, and eulogiums of the defunct were heard. Monseigneur had, I know not how, much
endeared himself to the common people of Paris, and this sentiment soon gained the provinces;
so true it is, that in France it costs little to its Princes to make themselves almost adored!

The King soon got over his affliction for the loss of this son of fifty. Never was a man so
ready with tears, so backward with grief, or so promptly restored to his ordinary state.  The
morning after the death of Monseigneur he rose late, called M. de Beauvilliers into his cabinet,
shed some more tears, and then said that from that time Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne and
Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne were to enjoy the honours, the rank, and the name of Dauphin
and of Dauphine.  Henceforth I shall call them by no other names.

My joy at this change may be imagined.  In a few days all my causes of disquietude had been
removed, and I saw a future opening before me full of light and promise.  Monseigneur le Duc
de Bourgogne become Dauphin, heir to the throne of France; what favour might I not hope for?
I could not conceal or control my satisfaction.

But alas!  it was soon followed by sad disappointment and grievous sorrow.

CHAPTER LVIII

The death of Monseigneur, as we have seen, made a great change in the aspect of the Court and
in the relative positions of its members.  But the two persons to whom I must chiefly direct
attention are the Duchesse de Bourgogne and the Duchesse de Berry.  The former, on account
of her husband's fall in the opinion of his father, had long been out of favour likewise. 
Although Monseigneur had begun to treat her less well for a long time, and most harshly during
the campaign of Lille, and above all after the expulsion of the Duc de Vendome from Marly and
Meudon; yet after the marriage of the Duc de Berry his coldness had still further increased.
The adroit Princess, it is true, had rowed against the current with a steadiness and grace
capable of disarming even a well-founded resentment; but the persons who surrounded him looked
upon the meeting of them as dangerous for their projects.  The Duc and Duchesse de Bourgogne
were every day still further removed in comparative disgrace.

Things even went so far that apropos of an engagement broken off, the Duchesse resolved to
exert her power instead of her persuasion, and threatened the two Lillebonnes.  A sort of reconciliation
was then patched up, but it was neither sincere nor apparently so.

The cabal which laboured to destroy the Duc and Duchesse de Bourgogne was equally assiduous
in augmenting the influence of the Duc de Berry, whose wife had at once been admitted without
having asked into the sanctuary of the Parvulo.  The object was to disunite the two brothers
and excite jealousy between then.  In this they did not succeed even in the slightest degree.
But they found a formidable ally in the Duchesse de Berry, who proved as full of wickedness
and ambition as any among them. The Duc d'Orleans often called his Duchess Madame Lucifer,
at which she used to smile with complacency.  He was right, for she would have been a prodigy
of pride had she not, had a daughter who far surpassed her.  This is not yet the time to paint
their portraits; but I must give a word or two of explanation on the Duchesse de Berry.

That princess was a marvel of wit, of pride, of ingratitude and folly-- nay, of debauchery
and obstinacy.

Scarcely had she been married a week when she began to exhibit herself in all these lights,--not
too manifestly it is true, for one of the qualities of which she was most vain was her falsity
and power of concealment, but sufficiently to make an impression on those around her. People
soon perceived how annoyed she was to be the daughter of an illegitimate mother, and to have
lived under her restraint however mild; how she despised the weakness of her father, the Duc
d'Orleans, and how confident she was of her influence over him; and how she had hated all who
had interfered in her marriage--merely because she could not bear to be under obligations to
any one--a reason she was absurd enough publicly to avow and boast of.  Her conduct was now
based on those motives.  This is an example of how in this world people work with their heads
in a sack, and how human prudence and wisdom are sometimes confounded by successes which have
been reasonably desired and which turn out to be detestable!  We had brought about this marriage
to avoid a marriage with Mademoiselle de Bourbon and to cement the union of the two brothers.
We now discovered that there was little danger of Mademoiselle de Bourbon, and then instead
of her we had a Fury who had no thought but how to ruin those who had established her, to injure
her benefactors, to make her husband and her brother quarrel; and to put herself in the power
of her enemies because they were the enemies of her natural friends.  It never occurred to
her that the cabal would not be likely to abandon to her the fruit of so much labour and so
many crimes.

It may easily be imagined that she was neither gentle nor docile when Madame la Duchesse began
to give her advice.  Certain that her father would support her, she played the stranger and
the daughter of France with her mother.  Estrangement, however, soon came on.  She behaved
differently in form, but in effect the same with the Duchesse de Bourgogne, who wished to guide
her as a daughter, but who soon gave up the attempt.  The Duchesse de Berry's object could
only be gained by bringing about disunion between the two brothers, and for this purpose she
employed as a spring the passion of her husband for herself.

The first night at Versailles after the death of Monseigneur was sleepless.  The Dauphin and
Dauphine heard mass early next morning. I went to see them.  Few persons were present on account
of the hour. The Princess wished to be at Marly at the King's waking.  Their eyes were wonderfully
dry, but carefully managed; and it was easy to see they were more occupied with their new position
than with the death of Monseigneur. A smile which they exchanged as they spoke, in whispers
convinced me of this.  One of their first cares was to endeavour to increase their good relations
with the Duc and Duchesse de Berry.  They were to see them before they were up.  The Duc de
Berry showed himself very sensible to this act, and the Duchess was eloquent, clever, and full
of tears.  But her heart was wrung by these advances of pure generosity.  The separation she
had planned soon followed: and the two princesses felt relieved at no longer being obliged
to dine together.

Thus never was change greater or more marked than that brought about by the death of Monseigneur.
That prince had become the centre of all hope and of all fear, a formidable cabal had seized
upon him, yet without awakening the jealousy of the King, before whom all trembled, but whose
anxieties did not extend beyond his own lifetime, during which, and very reasonably, he feared
nothing.

Before I go any further, let me note a circumstance characteristic of the King.  Madame la
Dauphine went every day to Marly to see him.  On the day after the death of Monseigneur she
received, not without surprise, easily understood, a hint from Madame de Maintenon.  It was
to the effect that she should dress herself with some little care, inasmuch as the negligence
of her attire displeased the King!  The Princess did not think that dress ought to occupy her
then; and even if she had thought so, she would have believed, and with good reason, that she
was committing a grave fault against decorum, a fault which would have been less readily pardoned,
since in every way she had gained too much by what had just occurred not to be very guarded
in her behaviour.  On the next day she took more pains with her toilette; but what she did
not being found sufficient, the day following she carried with her some things and dressed
herself secretly in Madame de Maintenon's rooms; and resumed there her ordinary apparel before
returning to Versailles.  Thus she avoided offence both to the King and to society.  The latter
certainly would with difficulty have been persuaded that in this ill-timed adornment of her
person, her own tastes went for nothing.  The Comtesse de Mailly, who invented the scheme,
and Madame de Nogaret, who both liked Monseigneur, related this to me and were piqued by it.
From this fact and from the circumstance that all the ordinary pleasures and occupations were
resumed immediately after the death of Monseigneur, the King passing his days without any constraint,--it
may be assumed that if the royal grief was bitter its evidences were of a kind to promise that
it would not be of long duration.

M. le Dauphin, for, as I have said, it is by that title I shall now name Monseigneur le Duc
de Bourgogne--M. le Dauphin, I say, soon gained all hearts.  In the first days of solitude
following upon the death of Monseigneur, the King intimated to M. de Beauvilliers that he should
not care to see the new Dauphin go very often to Meudon.  This was enough. M. le Dauphin at
once declared that he would never set his foot in that palace, and that he would never quit
the King.  He was as good as his word, and not one single visit did he ever afterwards pay
to Meudon.  The King wished to give him fifty thousand livres a month, Monseigneur having had
that sum.  M. le Dauphin would not accept them.  He had only six thousand livres per month.
He was satisfied with double that amount and would not receive more.  This disinterestedness
much pleased the public. M. le Dauphin wished for nothing special on his account, and persisted
in remaining in nearly everything as he was during the life of Monseigneur. These auguries
of a prudent and measured reign, suggested the brightest of hopes.

Aided by his adroit spouse, who already had full possession of the King's heart and of that
of Madame de Maintenon, M. le Dauphin redoubled his attentions in order to possess them also.
These attentions, addressed to Madame de Maintenon, produced their fruit.  She was transported
with pleasure at finding a Dauphin upon whom she could rely, instead of one whom she did not
like, gave herself up to him accordingly, and by that means secured to him the King's favour.
The first fortnight made evident to everybody at Marly the extraordinary change that had come
over the King with respect to the Dauphin.  His Majesty, generally severe beyond measure with
his legitimate children, showed the most marked graciousness for this prince.  The effects
of this, and of the change that had taken place in his state, were soon most clearly visible
in the Dauphin. Instead of being timid and retiring, diffident in speech, and more fond of
his study than of the salon, he became on a sudden easy and frank, showing himself in public
on all occasions, conversing right and left in a gay, agreeable, and dignified manner; presiding,
in fact, over the Salon of Marly, and over the groups gathered round him, like the divinity
of a temple, who receives with goodness the homage to which he is accustomed, and recompenses
the mortals who offer it with gentle regard.

In a short time hunting became a less usual topic of conversation. History, and even science,
were touched upon lightly, pleasantly, and discreetly, in a manner that charmed while it instructed.
The Dauphin spoke with an eloquent freedom that opened all eyes, ears and hearts. People sometimes,
in gathering near him, were less anxious to make their court than to listen to his natural
eloquence, and to draw from it delicious instruction.  It is astonishing with what rapidity
he gained universal esteem and admiration.  The public joy could not keep silent. People asked
each other if this was really the same man they had known as the Duc de Bourgogne, whether
he was a vision or a reality?  One of M. le Dauphin's friends, to whom this question was addressed,
gave a keen reply.  He answered, that the cause of all this surprise was, that previously the
people did not, and would not, know this prince, who, nevertheless, to those who had known
him, was the same now as he had ever been; and that this justice would be rendered to him when
time had shown how much it was deserved.

From the Court to Paris, and from Paris to the provinces, the reputation of the Dauphin flew
on rapid wings.  However founded might be this prodigious success, we need not believe it was
entirely due to the marvellous qualities of the young prince.  It was in a great measure a
reaction against the hostile feeling towards him which had been excited by the cabal, whose
efforts I have previously spoken of.  Now that people saw how unjust was this feeling, their
astonishment added to their admiration.  Everybody was filled with a sentiment of joy at seeing
the first dawn of a new state of things, which promised so much order and happiness after such
a long confusion and so much obscurity.

Gracious as the King showed himself to M. le Dauphin, and accustomed as the people grew to
his graciousness, all the Court was strangely surprised at a fresh mark of favour that was
bestowed one morning by his Majesty on this virtuous prince.  The King, after having been closeted
alone with him for some time, ordered his ministers to work with the Dauphin whenever sent
for, and, whether sent for or not, to make him acquainted with all public affairs; this command
being given once for all.

