THE HALF-BACK

A Story of School, Football, and Golf

By

RALPH HENRY BARBOUR

Illustrated by B. West Clinedinst

TO EVERY AMERICAN BOY WHO LOVES HONEST, MANLY SPORT, THIS STORY IS DEDICATED.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER

     I.--THE BOY IN THE STRAW HAT.

    II.--STATION ROAD AND RIVER PATH.

   III.--OUTFIELD WEST. 

    The tax collected of planters has thus far been sufficient to defray
office and printing expenses.

     The hire of a surgeon and nurses for the hospital, amounting in July
to$ 204.46, is the only bill which it is necessary to refer to you
for payment.

  XIII.--THE GAME WITH ST. EUSTACE.

   XIV.--THE GOODWIN SCHOLARSHIP.

    XV.--THE BOAT RACE.

   XVI.--GOOD-BY TO HILLTON.

  XVII.--THE SACRED ORDER OF HULLABALOOLOO.

 XVIII.--VISITORS FROM MARCHDALE.

   XIX.--A VARSITY SUB.

    XX.--AN OLD FRIEND.

   XXI.--THE DEPARTURE.

  XXII.--BEFORE THE BATTLE.

 XXIII.--HARWELL vs. YATES--THE FIRST HALF.

  XXIV.--HARWELL vs. YATES--A FAULT AND A REQUITAL.

   XXV.--THE RETURN.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

A leap in the nick of time.

Joel's arrival at school.

His next drive took him cleanly over Rocky Bunker.

"Stay where you are; the fellows are bringing a boat".

The left-guard bore down straight upon Joel.

Instantly the crimson crew seemed to lift their boat from the water.

DIAGRAMS.

Plan of Hillton Academy Golf Links.

Diagram of Second Play.

Diagram of Third Play.

Positions, Harwell vs. Yates.

CHAPTER I.

THE BOY IN THE STRAW HAT.

"How's craps, Country?"

"Shut up, Bart! he may hear you."

"What if he does, ninny? I want him to. Say, Spinach!"

"Do you suppose he's going to try and play football, Bart?"

"Not he. He's looking for a rake. Thinks this is a hayfield, Wall."

The speakers were lying on the turf back of the north goal on the campus at Hillton Academy.
The elder and larger of the two was a rather coarse-looking youth of seventeen. His name was
Bartlett Cloud, shortened by his acquaintances to "Bart" for the sake of that brevity beloved
of the schoolboy. His companion, Wallace Clausen, was a handsome though rather frail-looking
boy, a year his junior. The two were roommates and friends.

"He'd better rake his hair," responded the latter youth jeeringly. "I'll bet there's lots of
hayseed in it!"

The subject of their derisive remarks, although standing but a scant distance away, apparently
heard none of them.

"Hi, West!" shouted Bartlett Cloud as a youth, attired in a finely fitting golf costume, and
swinging a brassie, approached. The newcomer hesitated, then joined the two friends.

"Hello! you fellows. What's up? Thought it was golf, from the crowd over here." He stretched
himself beside them on the grass.

"Golf!" answered Bartlett Cloud contemptuously. "I don't believe you ever think of anything
except golf, Out! Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night trying to drive the pillow
out of the window with a bed-slat?"

"Oh, sometimes," answered Outfield West smilingly. "There's a heap more sense in being daft
over a decent game like golf than in going crazy about football. It's just a kid's game."

"Oh, is it?" growled Bartlett Cloud. "I'd just like to have you opposite me in a good stiff
game for about five minutes. I'd show you something about the 'kid's game!'"

"Well, I don't say you couldn't knock me down a few times and walk over me, but who wants to
play such games--except a lot of bullies like yourself?"

"Plenty of fellows, apparently," answered the third member of the group, Wallace Clausen, hastening
to avert the threatening quarrel. "Just look around you. I've never seen more fellows turn
out at the beginning of the season than are here to-day. There must be sixty here."

"More like a hundred," grunted "Bart" Cloud, not yet won over to good temper. "Every little
freshman thinks he can buy a pair of moleskins and be a football man. Look at that fellow over
yonder, the one with the baggy trousers and straw hat. The idea of that fellow coming down
here just out of the hayfield and having the cheek to report for football practice! What do
you suppose he would do if some one threw a ball at him?"

"Catch it in his hat," suggested Wallace Clausen.

"He does look a bit--er--rural," said Outfield West, eying the youth in question. "I fear he
doesn't know a bulger from a baffy," he added sorrowfully.

"What's more to the subject," said Wallace Clausen, "is that he probably doesn't know a touch-down
from a referee. There's where the fun will come in."

"Well, I'm no judge of football, thank goodness!" answered West, "but from the length of that
chap I'll bet he's a bully kicker."

"Nonsense. That's what a fellow always thinks who doesn't know anything about the game. It
takes something more than long legs to make a good punter."

"Perhaps; but there's one thing sure, Bart: that hayseed will be a better player than you at
the end of two months--that is, if he gets taken on."

"I'll bet you he won't be able to catch a punt," growled Cloud. "A fool like him can no more
learn football than--than--"

"Than you could learn golf," continued West sweetly.

"Oh, shut up! I know a mule that plays golf better than you do."

"Well, I sha'n't attempt to compete with your friends, Bart."

"There you both go, quarreling again," cried Clausen. "If you don't shut up, I'll have to whip
the pair of you."

Wallace Clausen was about two thirds the size of Cloud, and lacked both the height and breadth
of shoulder that made West's popular nickname of "Out" West seem so appropriate. Clausen's
threat was so absurd that Cloud came back to good humor with a laugh, and even West grinned.

"Come on, Wall--there's Blair," said Cloud. "You'd better come too, Out, and learn something
about a decent game." West shook his head, and the other two arose and hurried away to where
the captain of the school eleven was standing beneath the west goal, surrounded by a crowd
of variously attired football aspirants. West, left to himself, sighed lazily and fell to digging
holes in the turf with his brassie. Tiring of this amusement in a trice, he arose and sauntered
over to the side-line and watched the operations. Some sixty boys, varying in age from fifteen
to nineteen, some clothed in full football rig, some wearing the ordinary dress in which they
had stepped from the school rooms an hour before, all laughing or talking with the high spirits
produced upon healthy youth by the tonic breezes of late September, were standing about the
gridiron. I have said that all were laughing or talking. This is not true; one among them was
silent.

For standing near by was the youth who had aroused the merriment of Cloud and Clausen, and
who West had shortly before dubbed "rural." And rural he looked. His gray and rather wrinkled
trousers and his black coat and vest of cheap goods were in the cut of two seasons gone, and
his discolored straw hat looked sadly out of place among so many warm caps. But as he watched
the scene with intent and earnest face there was that about him that held West's attention.
He looked to be about seventeen. His height was above the ordinary, and in the broad shoulders
and hips lay promise of great strength and vigor.

But it was the face that attracted West most. So earnest, honest, and fearless was it that
West unconsciously wished to know it better, and found himself drawing nearer to the straw
hat and baggy gray trousers. But their owner appeared to be unconscious of his presence and
West paused.

"I don't believe that chap knows golf from Puss-in-the-Corner," mused West, "but I'll bet a
dozen Silvertowns that he could learn; and that's more than most chaps here can. I almost believe
that I'd loan him my new dogwood driver!"

Wesley Blair, captain of the eleven, was bringing order out of chaos. Blair was one of the
leaders in school life at Hillton, a strongly built, manly fellow, beloved of the higher class
boys, adored from a distance by the youngsters. Blair was serving his second term as football
captain, having been elected to succeed himself the previous fall. At this moment, attired
in the Crimson sweater, moleskin trousers, and black and crimson stockings that made up the
school uniform, he looked every inch the commander of the motley array that surrounded him.

"Warren, you take a dozen or so of these fellows over there out of the way and pass the ball
awhile. Get their names first.--Christie, you take another dozen farther down the field."

The crowd began to melt away, squad after squad moving off down the field to take position
and learn the rudiments of the game. Blair assembled the experienced players about him and,
dividing them into two groups, put them to work at passing and falling. The youth with the
straw hat still stood unnoticed on the side-line. When the last of the squads had moved away
he stepped forward and addressed the captain:

"Where do you want me?"

Blair, suppressing a smile of amusement as he looked the applicant over, asked:

"Ever played any?"

"Some; I was right end on the Felton Grammar School team last year."

"Where's Felton Grammar School, please?"

"Maine, near Auburn."

"Oh! What's your name?"

"Joel March."

"Can you kick?"

"Pretty fair."

"Well, show me what you consider pretty fair." He turned to the nearest squad. "Toss me the
ball a minute, Ned. Here's a chap who wants to try a kick."

Ned Post threw the ball, and his squad of veterans turned to observe the odd-looking country
boy toe the pigskin. Several audible remarks were made, none of them at all flattering to the
subject of them; but if the latter heard them he made no sign, but accepted the ball from Blair
without fumbling it, much to the surprise of the onlookers. Among these were Clausen and Cloud,
their mouths prepared for the burst of ironical laughter that was expected to follow the country
boy's effort.

"Drop or punt?" asked the latter, as he settled the oval in a rather ample hand.

"Which can you kick best?" questioned Blair. The youth considered a moment.

"I guess I can punt best." He stepped back, balancing the ball in his right hand, took a long
stride forward, swung his right leg in a wide arc, dropped the ball, and sent it sailing down
the field toward the distant goal. A murmur of applause took the place of the derisive laugh,
and Blair glanced curiously at the former right end-rush of the Felton Grammar School.

"Yes, that's pretty fair. Some day with hard practice you may make a kicker." Several of the
older fellows smiled knowingly. It was Blair's way of nipping conceit in the bud. "What class
are you in?"

"Upper middle," replied the youth under the straw hat, displaying no disappointment at the
scant praise.

"Well, March, kindly go down the field to that last squad and tell Tom Warren that I sent you.
And say," he continued, as the candidate started off, and he was struck anew with the oddity
of the straw hat and wrinkled trousers, "you had better tell him that you are the man that
punted that ball."

"That chap has got to learn golf," said Outfield West to himself as he turned away after witnessing
the incident, "even if I have to hog-tie him and teach it to him. What did he say his name
was? February? March? That was it. It's kind of a chilly name. I'll make it a point to scrape
acquaintance with him. He's a born golfer. His calm indifference when Blair tried to 'take
him down' was beautiful to see. He's the sort of fellow that would smile if he made a foozle
in a medal play."

West drew a golf ball from his pocket and, throwing it on the turf, gave it a half-shot off
toward the river, following leisurely after it and pondering on the possibility of making a
crack golfer out of a country lad in a straw hat.

Over on the gridiron, meanwhile, the candidates for football honors were limbering up in a
way that greatly surprised not a few of the inexperienced. It is one thing to watch the game
from the grand stand or side-lines and another to have an awkward, wobbly, elusive spheroid
tossed to the ground a few feet from you and be required to straightway throw yourself upon
it in such manner that when it stops rolling it will be snugly stowed between you and the ground.
If the reader has played football he will know what this means. If he has not--well, there
is no use trying to explain it to him. He must get a ball and try it for himself.

But even this exercise may lose its terrors after a while, and when at the end of an hour or
more the lads were dismissed, there were many among them, who limped back to their rooms sore
and bruised, but proudly elated over their first day with the pigskin. Even to the youth in
the straw hat it was tiresome work, although not new to him, and after practice was over, instead
of joining in the little stream that eddied back to the academy grounds, he struck off to where
a long straggling row of cedars and firs marked the course of the river. Once there he found
himself standing on a bluff with the broad, placid stream stretching away to the north and
south at his feet. The bank was some twenty feet high and covered sparsely with grass and weeds;
and a few feet below him a granite bowlder stuck its lichened head outward from the cliff,
forming an inviting seat from which to view the sunset across the lowland opposite. The boy
half scrambled, half fell the short distance, and, settling himself in comfort on the ledge,
became at once absorbed in his thoughts.

Perhaps he was thinking a trifle sadly of the home which he had left back there among the Maine
hills, and which must have seemed a very long way off; or perhaps he was dwelling in awe upon
the erudition of that excellent Greek gentleman, Mr. Xenophon, whose acquaintance, by means
of the Anabasis, he was just making; or perhaps he was thinking of no more serious a subject
than football and the intricate art of punting. But, whatever his thoughts may have been, they
were doomed to speedy interruption, as will be seen.

Outfield West left the campus behind and, with the little white ball soaring ahead, took his
way leisurely to the woods that bordered the tiny lake. Here he spent a quarter of an hour
amid the tall grass and bushes, fighting his way patiently out of awkward lies, and finally
driving off by the river bank, where a stretch of close, hard sod offered excellent chances
for long shots. Again and again the ball flew singing on its way, till at last the campus was
at hand again, and Stony Bunker intervened between West and Home.

Stony Bunker lay close to the river bluff and was the terror of all Hillton golfers, for, while
a too short stroke was likely to leave you in the sand pit, a too vigorous one was just as
likely to land you in the river. West knew Stony Bunker well by reason of former meetings,
and he knew equally well what amount of swing was necessary to land just over the hazard, but
well short of the bluff.

Perhaps it was the brassie that was to blame--for a full-length, supple-shafted, wooden driver
would have been what you or I would have chosen for that stroke--or perhaps West himself was
to blame. That as it may be, the fact remains that that provoking ball flew clear over the
bunker as though possessed of wings and disappeared over the bluff!

With an exclamation of disgust West hurried after, for when they cost thirty-five cents apiece
golf balls are not willingly lost even by lads who, like Outfield West, possess allowances
far in excess of their needs. But the first glance down the bank reassured him, for there was
the runaway ball snugly ensconced on the tiny strip of sandy beach that intervened between
the bank and the water. West grasped an overhanging fir branch and swung himself over the ledge.

Now, that particular branch was no longer youthful and strong, and consequently when it felt
the full weight of West's one hundred and thirty-five pounds it simply broke in his hand, and
the boy started down the steep slope with a rapidity that rather unnerved him and brought an
involuntary cry of alarm to his lips. It was the cry that was the means of saving him from
painful results, since at the bottom of the bank lay a bed of good-sized rocks that would have
caused many an ugly bruise had he fallen among them.

But suddenly, as he went falling, slipping, clutching wildly at the elusive weeds, he was brought
up with a suddenness that drove the breath from his body. Weak and panting, he struggled up
to the top of the jutting ledge, assisted by two strong arms, and throwing himself upon it
looked wonderingly around for his rescuer.

Above him towered the boy in the straw hat.

CHAPTER II.

STATION ROAD AND RIVER PATH.

Traveling north by rail up the Hudson Valley you will come, when some two hours from New York,
to a little stone depot nestling at the shoulder of a high wooded hill. To reach it the train
suddenly leaves the river a mile back, scurries across a level meadow, shrills a long blast
on the whistle, and pauses for an instant at Hillton. If your seat chances to be on the left
side of the car, and if you look quickly just as the whistle sounds, you will see in the foreground
a broad field running away to the river, and in it an oval track, a gayly colored grand stand,
and just beyond, at some distance from each other, what appear to the uninitiated to be two
gallows. Farther on rises a gentle hill, crowned with massive elms, from among which tower
the tops of a number of picturesque red-brick buildings.

Then the train hurries on again, under the shadow of Mount Adam, where in the deep maple woods
the squirrels leap all day among the tree tops and where the sunlight strives year after year
to find its way through the thick shade, and once more the river is beside you, the train is
speeding due north again, and you have, perhaps without knowing it, caught a glimpse of Hillton
Academy.

From the little stone station a queer old coach rumbles away down a wide country road. It carries
the mail and the village supplies and, less often, a traveler; and the driver, "Old Joe" Pike,
has grown gray between the station and the Eagle Tavern. If, instead of going on to the north,
you had descended from the train, and had mounted to the seat beside "Old Joe," you would have
made the acquaintance of a very worthy member of Hillton society, and, besides, have received
a deal of information as the two stout grays trotted along.

"Yes, that's the 'Cademy up there among them trees, That buildin' with the tower's the 'Cademy
Buildin', and the squatty one that you can just see is one of the halls--Masters they call
it, after the man that founded the school. The big, new buildin' is another of 'em, Warren;
and Turner's beyond it; and if you look right sharp you can see Bradley Hall to the left there.

"Here's where we turn. Just keep your foot on that mail-bag, if you please, sir. There's the
village, over yonder to the right. Kind of high up, ain't it? Ev'ry time any one builds he
goes higher up the hill. That last house is old man Snyder's. Snyder says he can't help lookin'
down on the rest of us. He, he!

"That road to the left we're comin' to 's Academy Road. This? Well, they used to call it Elm
Street, but it's generally just 'the Station Road' nowadays. Now you can see the school pretty
well, sir. That squatty place's the gymnasium; and them two littler houses of brick's the laboratories.
Then the house with the wide piazza, that's Professor Wheeler's house; he's the Principal,
you know. And the one next it, the yellow wooden house, I mean, that's what they call Hampton
House. It's a dormatory, same as the others, but it's smaller and more select, as you might say.

"Hold tight, sir, around this corner. Most of them, the lads, sir, live in the village, however.
You see, there ain't rooms enough in the 'Cademy grounds. I heard the other day that there's
nigh on to two hundred and twenty boys in the school this year; I can remember when they was'nt
but sixty, and it was the biggest boardin' school for boys in New York State. And that wa'n't
many years ago, neither. The boys? Oh, they're a fine lot, sir; a bit mischievous at times,
of course, but we're used to 'em in the village. And, bless you, sir, what can you expect from
a boy anyhow? There ain't none of 'em perfect by a long shot; and I guess I ought to know--I've
raised eight on 'em. There's the town hall and courthouse, and the Methodist church beyond.
And here we are, sir, at the Eagle, and an hour before supper. Thank you, sir. Get ap!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hillton Academy claims the distinction of being well over a century old. Founded in 1782 by
one Peter Masters, LL.D., a very good and learned pedagogue, it has for more than a hundred
years maintained its high estate among boys' schools.

In the catalogue of Hillton Academy you may find a proud list of graduates that includes ministers
plenipotentiary, members of cabinets, governors, senators, representatives, supreme court judges,
college presidents, authors, and many, many other equally creditable to their alma mater. The
founder and first principal of the academy passed away in 1835, as an old record says, "full
of honor, and commanding the respect and love of all who knew him." He was succeeded by that
best-beloved of American schoolmasters, Dr. Hosea Bradley, whose portrait, showing a tall,
dignified, and hale old gentleman, with white hair, and dressed in ceremonious broadcloth,
still hangs behind the chancel of the school chapel. Dr. Bradley resigned a few years before
his death, in 1876, and the present principal, John Ross Wheeler, A.M., professor of Latin,
took the chair.

As Professor Wheeler is a man of inordinate modesty, and as he is quite likely to read these
words, I can say but little about him. Perhaps the statement of a member of the upper middle
class upon his return from a visit to the "office" will serve to throw some light on his character,
Said the boy:

"I tell you I don't want to go through with that again! I'll take a licking first! He says
things that count! You see, 'Wheels' has been a boy himself, and he hasn't forgotten it; and
that--that makes a difference somehow!"

Yes, that disrespectful lad said "Wheels!" I have no excuse to offer for him; I only relate
the incident as it occurred.

The buildings, many of them a hundred years old, are with one exception of warm-hued red brick.
The gymnasium is built of red sandstone. Ivy has almost entirely hidden the walls of the academy
building and of Masters Hall. The grounds are given over to well-kept sod, and the massive
elms throw a tapestry of grateful shade in summer, and in winter hold the snow upon their great
limbs and transform the Green into a fairyland of white. From the cluster of buildings the
land slopes away southward, and along the river bluff a footpath winds past the Society House,
past the boathouse steps, down to the campus. The path is bordered by firs, and here and there
a stunted maple bends and nods to the passing skiffs.

Opposite the boat house, a modest bit of architecture, lies Long Isle, just where the river
seemingly pauses for a deep breath after its bold sweep around the promontory crowned by the
Academy Buildings. Here and there along the path are little wooden benches to tempt the passer
to rest and view from their hospitable seats the grand panorama of gently flowing river, of
broad marsh and meadow beyond, of tiny villages dotting the distances, and of the purple wall
of haze marking the line of the distant mountains.

Opposite Long Isle, a wonderful fairyland inaccessible to the scholars save on rare occasions,
the river path meets the angle of the Station Road, where the coach makes its first turn. Then
the path grows indistinct, merges into a broad ten-acre plot whereon are the track, gridiron,
baseball ground, and the beginning of the golf links. This is the campus. And here is Stony
Bunker, and beyond it is the bluff and the granite ledge; and lo! here we are back again at
the point from which we started on our journey of discovery; back to Outfield West and to the
boy in the ridiculous straw hat.

CHAPTER III.

OUTFIELD WEST.

It was several moments before West recovered his breath enough to speak, during which time
he sat and gazed at his rescuer in amazement not unmixed with curiosity. And the rescuer looked
down at West in simple amusement.

"Thanks," gasped West at length. "I suppose I'd have broke my silly neck if you hadn't given
me a hand just when you did."

The other nodded. "You're welcome, of course; but I don't believe you'd have been very much
hurt. What's that thing?" nodding toward the brassie, still tightly clutched in West's hand.

"A bras--a golf club. I was knocking a ball around a bit, and it went over the cliff here."

"I should think golf was a rather funny sort of a game."

"It isn't funny at all, if you know anything about it," replied West a trifle sharply. The
rescuer was on dangerous ground, had he but known it.

"Isn't it? Well, I guess it is all in getting used to it. I don't believe I'd care much for
tumbling over cliffs that way; I should think it would use a fellow up after a while."

"Look here," exclaimed West, "you saved me an ugly fall, and I'm very much obliged, and all
that; but--but you don't know the first thing about golf, and so you had better not talk about
it." He made an effort to gain his feet, but sat down again with a groan.

"You sit still a while," said the boy in the straw hat, "and I'll drop down and get that ball
for you." Suiting the action to the word, he lowered himself over the ledge, and slid down
the bank to the beach. He dropped the golf ball in his pocket, after examining it with deep
curiosity, and started back. But the return was less easy than the descent had been. The bank
was gravelly, and his feet could gain no hold. Several times he struggled up a yard or so,
only to slip back again to the bottom.

"I tell you what you do," called West, leaning over. "You get a bit of a run and get up as
high as you can, and try and catch hold of this stick; then I'll pull you up."

The other obeyed, and succeeded in getting a firm hold of the brassie, but the rest was none
so easy. West pulled and the other boy struggled, and then, at last, when both were out of
breath, the straw hat rose above the ledge and its wearer scrambled up. Sitting down beside
West he drew the ball from his pocket and handed it over.

"What do they make those of?" he asked.

"Gutta percha," answered West. "Then they're molded and painted this way. You've never played
golf, have you?"

"No, we don't know much about it down our way. I've played baseball and football some. Do you
play football?"

"No, I should say not," answered West scornfully. "You see," more graciously, "golf takes up
about all my time when I haven't got some lesson on; and this is the worst place for lessons
you ever saw. A chap doesn't get time for anything else." The other boy looked puzzled.

"Well, don't you want to study?"

West stared in amazement. "Study! Want to? Of course I don't! Do you?"

"Very much. That's what I came to school for."

"Oh!" West studied the strange youth dubiously. Plainly, he was not at all the sort of boy
one could teach golf to. "Then why were you trying for the football team awhile ago?"

"Because next to studying I want to play football more than anything else. Don't you think
I'll have time for it?"

"You bet! And say, you ought to learn golf. It's the finest sport going." West's hopes revived.
A fellow that wanted sport, if only football, could not be a bad sort. Besides, he would get
over wanting to study; that, to West, was a most unnatural desire. "There isn't half a dozen
really first-class players in school. You get some clubs and I'll teach you the game."

"That's very good of you," answered the boy in the straw hat, "and I'm very much obliged, but
I don't think I'll have time. You see I'm in the upper middle, and they say that it's awfully
hard to keep up with. Still, I should really like to try my hand at it, and if I have time
I'll ask you to show me a little about it. I expect you're the best player here, aren't you?"
West, extremely gratified, tried to conceal his pleasure.

"Oh, I don't know. There's Wesley Blair--he's captain of the school eleven, you know--he plays
a very good game, only he has a way of missing short puts. And then there's Louis Whipple.
The only thing about Whipple is that he tries to play with too few clubs. He says a fellow
can play just as well with a driver and a putter and a niblick as he can with a dozen clubs.
Of course, that's nonsense. If Whipple would use some brains about his clubs he'd make a rather
fair player. There are one or two other fellows in school who are not so bad. But I believe,"
magnanimously, "that if Blair had more time for practicing he could beat me." West allowed
his hearer a moment in which to digest this. The straw hat was tilted down over the eyes of
its wearer, who was gazing thoughtfully over the river.

"I suppose he's kept pretty busy with football."

"Yes, he's daft about it. Otherwise he's a fine chap. By the way, where'd you learn to kick
a ball that way?"

"On the farm. I used to practice when I didn't have much to do, which wasn't very often. Jerry
Green and I--Jerry's our hired man--we used to get out in the cow pasture and kick. Then I
played a year with our grammar-school eleven."

"Well, that was great work. If you could only drive a golf ball like that! Say, what's your name?"

"Joel March."

"Mine's Outfield West. The fellows call me 'Out' West. My home's in Pleasant City, Iowa. You
come from Maine, don't you?"

"Yes; Marchdale. It's just a corner store and a blacksmith shop and a few houses. We've lived
there--our family, I mean--for over a hundred years."

"Phew!" whistled West. "Dad's the oldest settler in our county, and he's been there only forty
years. Great gobble! We'd better be scooting back to school. Come on. I'm all right now, though
I was a bit lame after that tumble."

The two boys scrambled up the bank and set out along the river path. The sun had gone down
behind the mountains, and purple shadows were creeping up from the river. The tower of the
Academy Building still glowed crimson where the sun-rays shone on the windows.

"Where's your room?" asked West.

"Thirty-four Masters Hall," answered Joel March; for now that we have twice been introduced
to him there is no excuse for us to longer ignore his name.

"Mine's in Hampton House," said West. "Number 2. I have it all to myself. Who's in with you?"

"A fellow named Sproule."

"'Dickey' Sproule? He's an awful cad. Why didn't you get a room in the village? You have lots
more fun there; and you can get a better room too; although some of the rooms in Warren are
not half bad."

"They cost too much," replied March. "You see, father's not very well off, and can't help me
much. He pays my tuition, and I've enough money of my own that I've earned working out to make
up the rest. So, of course, I've got to be careful."

"Well, you're a queer chap!" exclaimed West.

"Why?" asked Joel March.

"Oh, I don't know. Wanting to study, and earning your own schooling, and that sort of thing."

"Oh, I suppose your father has plenty of money, hasn't he?"

"Gobs! I have twenty dollars a month allowance for pocket money."

"I wish I had," answered March. "You must have a good deal saved up by the end of the year."
West stared.

"Saved? Why, I'm dead broke this minute. And I owe three bills in town. Don't tell any one,
because it's against the rules to have bills, you know. Anyhow, what's the good of saving?
There's lots more." It was March's turn to stare.

"What do you spend it for?" he asked.

"Oh, golf clubs and balls, and cakes and pies and things," answered West carelessly. "Then
a fellow has to dress a little, or the other fellows look down on you."

"Do they?" March cast a glance over his own worn apparel. "Then I guess I must try their eyes
a good deal."

"Well, I wouldn't care--much," answered West halfheartedly. "Though of course that hat--"

"Yes, I suppose it is a little late for straws." West nodded heartily. "I was going to get
a felt in Boston, but--well, I saw something else I wanted worse; and it was my own money."

"What was it?" asked West curiously.

"A book." West whistled.

"Well, you can get a pretty fair one in the village at Grove's. And--and a pair of trousers
if you want them."

March nodded, noncommittingly. They had reached the gymnasium.

"I'm going in for a shower," said West. "You'd better come along." March shook his head.

"I guess not to-night. It's most supper time, and I want to read a little first. Good-night."

"Good-night," answered West. "I'm awfully much obliged for what you did, you know. Come and
see me to-morrow if you can; Number 2 Hampton. Good-night."

Joel March turned and retraced his steps to his dormitory. He found his roommate reading at
the table when he entered Number 34. Sproule looked up and observed:

"I saw you with Outfield West a moment ago. It looks rather funny for a 'grind,' as you profess
to be, hobnobbing with a Hampton House swell."

"I haven't professed to be a 'grind,'" answered Joel quietly, as he opened his Greek.

"Well, your actions profess it. And West will drop you quicker than a hot cake when he finds
it out. Why, he never studies a lick! None of those Hampton House fellows do."

March made no answer, but presently asked, in an effort to be sociable:

"What are you reading?"

"The Three Cutters; ever read it?"

"No; what's it about?"

"Oh, pirates and smuggling and such."

"I should think it would be first rate."

"It is. I'd let you take it after I'm through, only it isn't mine; I borrowed it from Billy
Cozzens."

"Thanks," answered Joel, "but I don't believe I'd have time for it."

"Humph!" grunted Sproule. "There you are again, putting on airs. Just wait until you've been
here two or three months; I guess I won't hear so much about study then."

Joel received this taunt in silence, and, burying his head in his hands, tackled the story
of Cyrus the Younger. Joel had already come to a decision regarding Richard Sproule, a decision
far from flattering to that youth. But in view of the fact that the two were destined to spend
much of their time together, Joel recognized the necessity of making the best of his roommate,
and of what appeared to be an unsatisfactory condition. During the two days that Joel had been
in school Sproule had nagged him incessantly upon one subject or another, and so far Joel had
borne the persecution in silence. "But some day," mused Joel, "I'll just have to punch his head!"

Richard Sproule was a member of the senior class, and monitor for the floor upon which he had
his room. He had, perhaps, no positive meanness in him. Most of his unpleasantness was traceable
to envy. Just at present he was cultivating a dislike for Joel because of the latter's enviable
success at lessons and because a resident of Hampton House had taken him up. Sproule cared
nothing for out-of-door amusements and hated lessons. His whole time, except when study was
absolutely compulsory, was taken up with the reading of books of adventure; and Captain Marryat
and Fenimore Cooper were far closer acquaintances than either Cicero or Caesar. Richard Sproule
was popularly disliked and shunned.

In the dining hall that evening Joel ate and relished his first hearty meal since he had arrived
at Hillton. The exercise had brought back a naturally good appetite, which had been playing truant.

The dining hall takes up most of the ground floor of Warren Hall. Eight long, roomy tables
are arranged at intervals, with broad aisles between, through which the white-aproned waiters
hurry noiselessly about. To-night there was a cheerful clatter of spoons and forks and a loud
babel of voices, and Joel found himself hugely enjoying the novelty of eating in the presence
of more than a hundred and fifty other lads. Outfield West and his neighbors in Hampton House
occupied a far table, and there the noise was loudest. West was dressed like a young prince,
and his associates were equally as splendid. As Joel observed them, West glanced across and
saw him, and waved a hilarious greeting with a soup spoon. Joel nodded laughingly back, and
then settled in his chair with an agreeable sensation of being among friends. This feeling
grew when, toward the end of his meal, Wesley Blair, in leaving the hall, saw him and stopped
beside his chair.

"How did you get on this afternoon?" Blair asked pleasantly.

"Very well, thanks," Joel replied.

"That's good. ON THE STATE OF AFFAIRS IN FRANCE.

(Rouen, June, 1818.) Abandoning, for the present, all discussion
of the themes of the elder day, I shall occupy myself with matters
relating to the living world.

The fatigued and hungry traveller, whose flesh is weaker than his spirit,
is often too apt to think that his bed and his supper are of more
immediate consequence than churches or castles.

And to those who are in this predicament, there is a material improvement
at Rouen, since I was last here: nothing could be worse than the
inns of the year 1815; but four years of peace have effected a wonderful
alteration, and nothing can now be better than the Hôtel de Normandie,
where we have fixed our quarters.

Objection may, indeed, be made to its situation, as to that of every other
hôtel in the city; but this is of little moment in a town, where every
house, whatever street or place it may front, opens into a court-yard,
so that its views are confined to what passes within its own quadrangle;
and, for excellence of accommodations, elegance of furniture, skill
in cookery, civility of attendance, nay, even for what is more rare,
neatness, our host, M. Trimolet, may challenge competition with almost
any establishment in Europe.

For the rent of the house, which is one of the most spacious in Rouen,
he pays three thousand francs a year; and, as house-rent is one of the
main standards of the value of the circulating medium, I will add, that our
friend, M. Rondeau, for his, which is not only among the largest but among
the most elegant and the best placed for business, pays but five hundred
francs more. This, then, may be considered as the maximum at Rouen.
Yet Rouen is far from being the place which should be selected by an Englishman,
who retires to France for the purpose of economizing: living in general
is scarcely one-fourth cheaper than in our own country.

At Caen it is considerably more reasonable; on the banks of the Loire
the expences of a family do not amount to one-half of the English
cost; and still farther south a yet more sensible reduction takes
place, the necessaries of life being cheaper by half than they are
in Normandy, and house-rent by full four-fifths. A foreigner can glean but
little useful information respecting the actual state of a country
through which he journeys with as much rapidity as I have done.

And still less is he able to secern the truth from the falsehood,
or to weigh the probabilities of conflicting testimony.

I therefore originally intended to be silent on this subject. There is a story told, I believe, of Voltaire,
at least it may be as well told of Voltaire as of any other wit, that, being
once in company with a very talkative empty Frenchman, and a very
glum and silent Englishman, he afterwards characterized them by saying,
"l'un ne dit que des riens, et l'autre ne dit rien."

Fearing that my political and statistical observations, which in good truth are very slender, might be
ranked but too truly in the former category, I had resolved to confine
them to my own notebook. Yet we all take so much interest in the destinies
of our ancient rival and enemy, (I wish I could add, our modern friend,)
that, according to my usual habit, I changed my determination within
a minute after I had formed it; for I yielded to the impression, that
even my scanty contribution would not be wholly unacceptable to you.

France, I am assured on all sides, is rapidly improving, and the government is satisfactory
to all liberal men, in which number I include persons of every opinion,
except the emigrants and those attached exclusively to the ancien
régime.

Men of the latter description are commonly known by the name of Ultras; and, speaking with a degree
of freedom, which is practised here, to at least as great an extent as in England, they do not
hesitate to express their decided disapprobation of the present system of government, and
to declare, not only that Napoléon was more of a royalist than Louis, but that the King is a jacobin.
They persuade themselves also, and would fain persuade others, that
he is generally hated; and their doctrine is, that the nation is
divided into three parties, ready to tear each other in pieces: the
Ministerialists, who are few, and in every respect contemptible; the
Ultras, not numerous, but headed by the Princes, and thus far of weight;
and the Revolutionists, who, in point of numbers, as well as of talents
and of opulence, considerably exceed the other two, and will, probably,
ultimately prevail; so that these conflicts of opinion will terminate
by decomposing the constitutional monarchy into a republic.

To listen to these men, you might almost fancy they were quoting from Clarendon's History of
the Rebellion in our own country; so entirely do their feelings coincide with those of the courtiers
who attended Charles in his exile. Similar too is the reward they receive; for it is difficult for
a monarch to be just, however he may in some cases he generous. Yet even the Ultras admit that
the revolution has been beneficial to France, though they are willing to confine its benefits
to the establishment of the trial by jury, and the correction of
certain abuses connected with the old system of nobility.

Among the advantages obtained, they include the abolition of the game laws; and, indeed, I
am persuaded, from all I hear, that this much-contested question could not receive a better
solution than by appealing to the present laws in France. Game is here altogether the property
of the land-owner; it is freely exposed for sale, like other articles of food; and every one is
himself at liberty to sport, or to authorize his friend to do so over his property, with no other restriction
than that of taking out a licence, or port d'armes, which, for fifteen
francs, is granted without difficulty to any man of respectability,
whatever may be his condition in life.

In this particular, I cannot but think that France has set us an example
well worthy of our imitation; and she also shews that it may be followed
without danger; for neither do the pleasures of the field lose their relish,
nor is the game extirpated. The former are a subject of conversation in almost
every company; and, as to the latter, whatever slaughter may have taken place
in the woods and preserves, at the first burst of the revolution, I am assured
that a good sportsman may, at the present time, between Dieppe and Rouen
kill with ease, in a day, fifty head of game, consisting principally of hares,
quails, and partridges.

But, while these men thus restrict the benefits derived from the
revolution, the case is far different with individuals of the other parties,
all of whom are loud and unanimous in its praises. The good resulting
from the republic has been purchased at a dreadful price, but the
good remains; and those, who now enjoy the boon, are not inclined
to remember the blood which drenched the three-colored banner.

Thirty years have elapsed, and a new generation has arisen, to whom
the horrors of the revolution live only in the page of history.

     

But its advantages are daily felt in the equal nature and equal administration of the laws;
in the suppression of the monasteries with their concomitant evils; in the restriction of the
powers of the clergy; in the liberty afforded to all modes of religious
worship; and in the abolition of all the edicts and mandates and prejudices,
which secured to a peculiar sect and caste a monopoly of all the honors
and distinctions of the common-wealth; for now, every individual of
talent and character feels that the path to preferment and power is
not obstructed by his birth or his opinions.

The constitutional charter, in its present state, is a subject of
pride to the French, and a sure bulwark to the throne. The representative
system is beginning to be generally appreciated, and particularly in
commercial towns.

The deputies of this department are to be changed the approaching autumn,
and the minds of men are already anxiously bent upon selecting such representatives
as may best understand and promote their local interests. Few acts
of the Bourbon government have contributed more powerfully to promote
the popularity of the King, than the law enacted in the course of last year,
which abolished the double election, and enabled the voters to give
their suffrages directly for their favorite candidate, thus putting
a stop at once to a variety of unfair influence, previously exerted
upon such occasions.

The same law has also created a general interest upon the subject,
never before known; the strongest proof of which is, that, of the six
or eight thousand electors contained in this department, nearly the whole
are expected now to vote, whereas not a third ever did so before.

The qualifications for an elector and a deputy are uniform throughout
the kingdom, and depending upon few requisites; nothing more being
required in the former case, than the payment of three hundred francs
per annum, in direct taxes, and the having attained the age of thirty;
while an addition of ten years to the age, and the payment of one
thousand francs, instead of three hundred, renders every individual
qualified to be of the number of the elected.

The system, however, is subject to a restriction, which provides, that at least one half of
the representatives of each department shall be chosen from among
those who reside in it.

In the beginning of the revolution, a much wider door was open: all that
was then necessary to entitle a man to vote, was, that he should be
twenty-one years of age, a Frenchman, and one who had lived for a year
in the country on his own revenue, or on the produce of his labor,
and was not in a state of servitude.

It was then also decreed, that the electors should have each three livres a day during their mission,
and should be allowed at the rate of one livre a league, for the distance from their usual place
of residence, to that in which the election of members for their department is held. Such were
the only conditions requisite for eligibility, either as elector or deputy;
except, indeed, that the citizens in the primary assemblies, and the
electors in the electoral assembly, swore that they would maintain liberty
and equality, or die rather than violate their oath [48]. The wisdom and prudence
of the subsequent alterations, few will be disposed to question: the
system, in its present state, appears to me admirably qualified to
attain the object in view; and such seems the general character of
the French Constitutional Charter, which unites two excellent qualities,
great clearness and great brevity.

The whole is comprised in seventy-four short articles; and, that
no Frenchman may plead ignorance of his rights or his duties, it is
usually found prefixed to the almanacks.

     Some persons might, indeed, be inclined to deem this station
      as ominous; for, since the revolution began, the frame of the
      French government has sustained so many alterations,
      that, considering that several of their constitutions never outlived
the current quarter, they may be fairly said to have had a new constitution
in each year.

How far the Bourbon charter will answer the purpose of serving as the basis of a code of laws
for the government of an extensive kingdom, time only can determine. At present, it has the
charm of novelty to recommend it; and there are few among us with whom novelty is not a strong attraction.
Our friends on this side of the water are greatly belied, if it be not so with them. The finances
of the French municipalities are administered with a degree of fairness and attention, which
might put many a body corporate, in a certain island, to the blush.
Little is known in England respecting the administration of the French
towns: the following particulars relating to the revenue and expences
of Rouen, may, therefore, in some measure, serve as a scale, by which
you may give a guess at the balance-sheet of cities of greater or
lesser magnitude.-- The budget amounted for the last year to one million
two hundred thousand francs.

The proposed items of expenditure must be particularized, and submitted to the Prefect and the Minister
of the Interior, before they can be paid. In this sum is comprised the charge for the hospitals,
which contain above three thousand persons, including foundlings, and for all the other public institutions,
the number and excellence of which has long been the pride of Rouen. You must consider too, that every
thing of this kind is, in France, national: individuals do nothing,
neither is it expected of them; and herein consists one of the most
essential differences between France and England. To meet this great
expenditure, the city is provided with the rents of public lands, with
wharfage, with tolls from the markets and the halles; and, above
all, with the octroi, a tax that prevails through France, upon every
article of consumption brought into the towns, and is collected at
the barriers.

The octroi, like turnpike-tolls or the post-horse duty with us, is farmed; two-thirds are received
by the government, and the remaining one-third by the town. In Rouen
it produced the last year one million four hundred and fifty thousand
francs.-- If, now, this sum appears to you comparatively greater than
that of our large cities in England, you must recollect that, with
us, towns are not liable to similar charges: our corporations support
no museums, no academies, no learned bodies; and our infirmaries,
and dispensaries, and hospitals, are indebted, as well for their existence
as their future maintenance, to the piety of the dead, or the liberality
of the living.

Nor must we forget that, even in this great kingdom, Rouen, at present, holds the fifth place among the
towns; though it was far from being thus, when Buonaparté, uniting the imperial to the iron crown,
overshadowed with his eagle-wings the continent from the Baltic to
Apulia; and when the mural crowns of Rome and Amsterdam stood beneath
the shield of the "good city" of Paris.

The population of Rouen is estimated at eighty-seven thousand persons, of whom the greater number
are engaged in the manufactories, which consist principally of cotton, linen, and woollen cloths,
and are among the largest in France. At present, however, "trade is dull;" and hence, and
as the politics of a trader invariably sympathize with his cash account, neither the peace,
nor the English, nor the princes of the Bourbon dynasty, are popular
here; for the articles manufactured at Rouen, being designed generally
for exportation, ranged almost unrivalled over the continent, during
the war, but now in every town they meet with competitors in the goods
from England, which are at once of superior workmanship and cheaper.

The latter advantage is owing very much to the greater perfection
of our machinery, and, perhaps, still more to the abundance of coals,
which enables us, at so small an expence, to keep our steam-engines
in action, and thus to counterbalance the disproportion in the charge
of manual labor, as well as the many disadvantages arising from the
pressure of our heavy taxation.-- But I must cease.

An English fit of growling is coming upon me; and I find that the
Blue Devils, which haunt St. Stephen's chapel, are pursuing me over
the channel.

Footnotes: [48] Moore's Journal of a Residence in France, I. p. 82. (Rouen,
June, 1818) My researches in this city after the remains of architectural
antiquity of the earlier Norman æra, have hitherto, I own, been attended
with little success. I may even go so far as to say, that I have seen
nothing in the circular style, for which it would not be easy to
find a parallel in most of the large towns in England.

On the other hand, the perfection and beauty of the specimens of
the pointed style, have equally surprised and delighted me. I will endeavor,
however, to take each object in its order, premising that I have
been materially assisted in my investigations by M. Le Prevost and
M. Rondeau, but especially by the former, one of the most learned
antiquaries of Normandy.

Of the fortifications and castellated buildings in Rouen very little
indeed is left [49], and that little is altogether insignificant;
being confined to some fragments of the walls scattered here and there
[50], and to three circular towers of the plainest construction, the
remains of the old castle, built by Philip Augustus in 1204, near
to the Porte Bouvreuil, and hence commonly known by the name of the
Château de Bouvreuil or le Vieux Château.-- It is to the leading part
which this city has acted in the history of France, that we must attribute
the repeated erection and demolition of its fortifications.

An important event was commemorated by the erection of the old castle,
it having been built upon the final annexation of Normandy to the
crown of France, in consequence of the weakness of our ill-starred
monarch,-- John Lackland.

The French King seems to have suspected that the citizens retained
their fealty to their former sovereign. He intended that his fortress should
command and bridle the city, instead of defending it.

The town-walls were razed, and the Vieille Tour, the ancient palace of the Norman Dukes, levelled
with the ground.-- But, as the poet says of language, so it is with castles,--... "mortalia facta
peribunt, Nec castellorum stet honos et gratia vivax;" and, in 1590, the fortress raised by Philip
Augustus experienced the fate of its predecessors; it was then ruined
and dismantled, and the portion which was allowed to stand, was degraded
into a jail.

Now the three [51] towers just mentioned are alone remaining, and these would attract little
notice, were it not that one of them bears the name of the Tour de
la Pucelle, as having been, in 1430, the place of confinement of the
unfortunate Joan of Arc, when she was captured before Compiégne and
brought prisoner to Rouen.

It must be stated, however, that the first castle recorded to have existed at Rouen, was built by
Rollo, shortly after he had made himself master of Neustria. Its very name is now lost; and
all we know concerning it is, that it stood near the quay, at the northern extremity of the town,
in the situation subsequently occupied by the Church of St. Pierre du Châtel, and the adjoining
monastery of the Cordeliers. After a lapse of less than fifty years,
Rouen saw rising within her walls a second castle, the work of Duke
Richard Ist, and long the residence of the Norman sovereigns.

This, from a tower of great strength which formed a part of it, and which was not demolished
till the year 1204, acquired the appellation of la Vieille Tour; and the name remains to this
day, though the building has disappeared. The space formerly occupied by the scite of it is now covered
by the halles, considered the finest in France. The historians of
Rouen, in the usual strain of hyperbole, hint that their halles are
even the finest in the world [52], though they are very inferior
to their prototypes at Bruges and Ypres.

The hall, or exchange, allotted to the mercers, is two hundred and seventy-two feet in length, by
fifty feet wide: those for the drapers and for wool are, each of them,
two hundred feet long; and all these are surpassed in size by the
corn-hall, whose length extends to three hundred feet. They are built
round a large square, the centre of which is occupied by numberless
dealers in pottery, old clothes,& c.; and, as the day on which we
chanced to visit them was a Friday, when alone they are opened for
public business, we found a most lively, curious, and interesting
scene.

It was on the top of a stone staircase, the present entry to the halles, that the annual ceremony
[53] of delivering and pardoning a criminal for the sake of St. Romain,
the tutelary protector of Rouen, was performed on Ascension-day, according
to a privilege exercised, from time immemorial, by the Chapter of
the Cathedral. The legend is romantic; and it acquires a species
of historical importance, as it became the foundation of a right,
asserted even in our own days.

My account of it is taken from Dom Pommeraye's History of the Life of
the Prelate [54].-- He has been relating many miracles performed by
him, and, among others, that of causing the Seine, at the time of
a great inundation, to retire to its channel by his command, agreeably
to the following beautiful stanza of Santeuil:-- "Tangit exundans
aqua civitatem; Voce Romanus jubet efficaci; Audiunt fluctus, docilisque
cedit Unda jubenti."

Our learned Benedictine thus proceeds:-- "But the following miracle was deemed a far greater
marvel, and it increased the veneration of the people towards St. Romain
to such a degree, that they henceforth regarded him as an actual
apostle, who, from the authority of his office, the excellence of his doctrine,
his extreme sanctity, and the gift of miracles, deserved to be classed
with the earliest preachers of our holy faith. In a marshy spot, near
Rouen, was bred a dragon, the very counterpart of that destroyed
by St. Nicaise.

It committed frightful ravages; lay in wait for man and beast, whom it devoured without mercy; the
air was poisoned by its pestilential breath, and it was alone the cause
of greater mischief and alarm, than could have been occasioned by a whole army
of enemies. The inhabitants, wearied out by many years of suffering,
implored the aid of St. Romain; and the charitable and generous pastor,
who dreaded nothing in behalf of his flock, comforted them with the
assurance of a speedy deliverance.

The design itself was noble; still more so was the manner by which he put it in force; for
he would not be satisfied with merely killing the monster, but undertook
also to bring it to public execution, by way of atonement for its
cruelties.

For this purpose, it was necessary that the dragon should be caught;
but when the prelate required a companion in the attempt, the hearts
of all men failed them.

He applied, therefore, to a criminal condemned to death for murder;
and, by the promise of a pardon, bought his assistance, which the
certain prospect of a scaffold, had he refused to accompany the saint,
caused him the more willingly to lend.

Together they went, and had no sooner reached the marsh, the monster's
haunt, than St. Romain, approaching courageously, made the sign of
the cross, and at once put it out of the power of the dragon to attempt
to do him injury. I thought I'd rescue you from the ranks of the lowly and teach you golf and
make a man of you generally. Instead of that"--West gave one of his expressive whistles--"instead
of that, why, here you are turning me into a regular 'Masters Hall grind.' Thus do our brightest
dreams fade. Well, I'm oil. Don't forget the upper middle class meeting to-night. They're going
to vote on the Class Crew question, and we want all the votes we can get to down the fellows
that don't want to pay the assessment. Good-night."

And Outfield West took himself off toward his room, his broad shoulders well back, and his
clear, merry voice singing the school song as he strode along. Joel turned into the library,
feeling well satisfied with the result of his meddling, to pore over a reference book until
supper time.

The following morning Joel awoke to find a cold rain falling from a dull sky. The elms in the
yard were dripping from every leaf and branch, and the walks held little gray pools that made
the trip to breakfast a series of splashes. In the afternoon Joel got into his oldest clothes
and tramped over to Hampton House. The window of West's room looked bright and cheerful, for
a big wood fire was blazing on the hearth within. Joel kicked the mud from his shoes, and passing
through the great white door with its old-fashioned fanlight above, tapped at West's room.
A faint response from beyond the portal summoned him in.

The owner of the room was sandpapering a golf shaft before the fire, and a deep expression
of discontent was on his face. But his countenance lighted up at sight of his visitor, and
he leaped to his feet and drew a second armchair before the hearth.

"You're a brick, March! I was just wishing you roomed near enough so that I could ask you to
come over and talk a bit. Isn't it a horrible day?"

"It's awfully wet; but then it has to rain sometimes, I suppose," answered Joel as he took
off his overcoat.

"Yes, but it doesn't have to rain just when a fellow has fixed to practice golf, does it?"
West growled. Joel laughed.

"I thought the real, simon-pure golfer didn't mind the weather."

"He doesn't as long as he can get over the ground, but the links here is like a quagmire when
it rains. But never mind, we'll have a good chummy afternoon. And I've got some bully gingersnaps.
Do you like gingersnaps?" Joel replied in the affirmative, and West produced a box of them
from under the bed.

"I have to keep these kinds of things hid, you know, because Blair and Cooke and the rest of
the fellows would eat them all up. By the way, I made up a list of the things you'll have to
get if you're going in for golf. Here it is. Of course, I only put down one of each, and only
a dozen balls. I'll get the catalogue and we'll reckon up and see how much they come to."

"But I don't think I can afford to buy anything like this, West," answered Joel doubtfully.

"Nonsense! you've got to! A fellow has to have necessities! What's the first thing on the list?
Read 'em off, will you?"

"Driving cleek," read Joel.

"Yes, but never mind the clubs. There are seven of them on the list and you can get pretty
fair ones for a dollar and a half each. What's next?"

"But that makes ten dollars and a half," cried Joel.

"Of course it does. And cheap enough, too. Why, some of mine cost three dollars apiece! What's
next?"

"One dozen Silvertowns."

"Correct; four dollars. Mark it down. Next?"

"Caddie bag," responded Joel faintly.

"A dollar and a half. Next."

"But, West, I can't afford these things."

"Nonsense, March! Still--well, you can call the bag a dollar even; though the dollar ones aren't
worth much. Mine cost five."

"But you have coat and trousers down. And shoes, and--"

"Well, you can leave the shoes out, and get some hobnails and put them on the soles of any
good heavy shoes. Then there's gloves. They cost about a dollar and a half. As for trousers,
you can do with ordinary ones, but--you've got to have a coat, March. A chap can't swing a
club in a tight-fitting jacket like the one you've got on. Now let's reckon up."

"There's no use in doing that, West," laughed Joel. "I can't buy one of these things, to say
nothing of the whole list. I'm saving up for my football togs, and after I have those I sha'n't
be able to buy anything else for months."

West settled his chin in his hand and scowled at the flames. "It's too bad, March; and I put
your name up for the Golf Club, too. You will join that, won't you? You must, now that I've
put you up. It's only a dollar initiation fee and fifty cents dues."

"Very well, then, I'll join the club," answered Joel. "Though I don't see what use there is
in it, since I haven't anything to play with and wouldn't know how to play if I had."

"Well, I'm going to teach you, you know. And as for clubs and things, why, I've got some oldish
ones that will do fairly well; a beginner doesn't need extra good ones, you see. And then,
for clothes--well, I guess fellows have played in ordinary trousers and coat; and I've played
myself in tennis shoes. And if you don't mind cold hands, why, you needn't have gloves. So,
after all, we'll get on all right." West was quite cheerful again and, with a wealth of clubs--divers,
spoons, bulgers, putters, baps, niblicks, and many other sorts--on the rug before him, chattered
on about past deeds of prowess on the links until the room grew dark and the lamps in the yard
shone fitfully through the rain, by which time a dozen clubs in various states of repair had
been laid aside, the gingersnaps had been totally demolished, and West had forgotten all about
the meanness of the weather and his lost practice.

Then Cooke and Somers demanded admission, to the annoyance of both West and Joel, and the lamps
were lighted, and Joel said good-night and hurried back to his room in order to secure a half
hour's study ere supper time.

CHAPTER VI.

THE PRACTICE GAME.

"First and second Eleven rushes and quarters down the field and practice formations. Backs
remain here to kick!" shouted Wesley Blair.

It was a dull and cold afternoon. The last recitation was over and half the school stood shivering
about the gridiron or played leapfrog to keep warm. Stephen Remsen, in the grimiest of moleskins,
stood talking to the captain, and, in obedience to the command of the latter, some fifteen
youths, clad for the coming fray, were trotting down the field, while eight others, backs and
substitute backs on the two teams, passed and dropped on the pigskin in an endeavor to keep warm.

The first and second elevens were to play their first real game of the season at four o'clock,
and meanwhile the players were down for a stiff thirty minutes of practice. Joel March shivered
with the rest of the backs and waited for the coach and the captain to finish their consultation.
Presently Blair trotted off down the field and Remsen turned to the backs.

"Browne, Meach, and Turner, go down to about the middle of the field and return the balls.
Cloud, take a ball over nearer the side-line and try some drop-kicks. Post, you do the same,
please. And let me see, what is your name?" addressing a good-looking and rather slight youth.
"Ah, yes, Clausen. Well, Clausen, you and Wills try some punts over there, and do try and get
the leg swing right. March, take that ball and let me see you punt."

Then began a time of sore tribulation for Joel; for not until ten minutes had passed did the
ball touch his toe. His handling was wrong, his stepping out was wrong, and his leg-swing was
very, very wrong! But he heard never a cross word from his instructor, and so shut his lips
tight and bore the lecture in good-humored silence.

"There," announced Remsen finally, "that's a lot better. Now kick." Joel caught the ball nicely,
and sent it sailing far down the field.

"That's a good kick, but it would have been better had you landed higher up on your foot. Try
and catch the ball just in front of the arch of the foot. You take it about on the toe-cap.
Remember that the broader the surface that propels the ball the greater will be the accuracy--that
is, the ball has less chance of sliding off to one side when the striking surface is large.
Here's your ball coming. Now try again, and remember what I have said about the swing at the
hip. Forget that you have any joints at all, and just let the right side of you swing round
as it will."

Then Remsen passed on to the next man and Joel pegged away, doing better and better, as he
soon discovered, every try, until a whistle blew from the middle of the field and the players
gathered about the captains on the fifty-five-yard line. Joel was down to play left half on
the second eleven, and beside him, at right, was Wills, a promising lower middle boy, who was
an excellent runner, but who, so far, had failed to develop any aptitude for kicking. Cloud
and Clausen occupied similar positions on the first eleven, and behind them stood Wesley Blair,
the best full-back that Hillton Academy had possessed for many years. The full-back on the
second eleven was Ned Post, a veteran player, but "as erratic as a mule," to use the words
of Stephen Remsen.

The first eleven was about six pounds heavier in the line than the team captained by Louis
Whipple, who played at quarter, and about the same weight behind the line. It was a foregone
conclusion that the first would win, but whether the second would score was a mooted point.
Joel felt a bit nervous, now that he was in his first game of consequence, but forgot all about
it a moment later when the whistle blew and Greer, the big first eleven center, tore through
their line for six yards, followed by Wallace Clausen with the ball. Then there was a delay,
for the right half when he tried to arise found that his ankle was strained, and so had to
limp off the ground supported by Greer and Barnard, the one-hundred-and-sixty-pound right tackle.
Turner, a new player, went on, and the ball was put in play again, this time for a try through
left tackle. But the second's line held like a stone wall, and the runner was forced back with
the loss of a yard. Then the first eleven guards fell back, and when the formation hit the
second's line the latter broke like paper, and the first streamed through for a dozen yards.
And so it went until the second found itself only a few yards from its goal line. There, with
the backs pressed close against the forwards, the second held and secured the ball on downs,
only to lose it again by a fumble on the part of Post. Then a delayed pass gained two yards
for the first and a mass at left tackle found another. But the next play resulted disastrously,
for when the ball was passed back there was no one to take it, and the quarter was borne back
several yards before his own astounded players could come to his assistance.

"That about settles Cloud," whispered Post to Joel, as they hurried up to take the new position.
"That was his signal to take the leather through right end, and he was fast asleep. Remsen's
laying for him."

But the advantage to the second was of short duration, for back went the first's guards again,
and down came the ball to their goal line with short, remorseless gains, and presently, when
their quarter knelt on the last white line, the dreaded happened, and Blair lay between the
posts with half the second eleven on top of him, but with the ball a yard over the line. An
easy goal resulted, and just as the teams trotted back to mid-field the whistle sounded, and
the first twenty-minute half was done.

The players wrapped themselves warmly in blankets and squatted in the protection of the fence,
and were immediately surrounded by the spectators. Remsen and Blair talked with this player
and that, explaining his faults or saying a good word for his work. In the second half many
of the second eleven went into the first, the deposed boys retiring to the side-lines, and
several substitutes were put into the second. Joel went back to full, Ned Post taking Clausen's
place at right half on the first eleven and Turner becoming once more a spectator.

It was the second eleven's ball, and Joel raced down the field after the kick-off as far as
their twenty-yard line, and there caught Blair's return punt very neatly, ran three yards under
poor interference, and was then seized by the mighty Greer and hurled to earth with a shock
that completely took the breath out of him for a moment. But he was soon on his feet again,
and Whipple gave him an encouraging slap as he trotted back to his place. The next play was
an ordinary formation with the ends back, and the ball passed to left end for a run back of
quarter and through the line outside of guard. It worked like a charm, and left end sped through
with Joel bracing him at the turn and the left half going ahead. Four yards were netted, Meach,
the substitute left half, being tackled by Post. In the mix-up that followed Joel found himself
sprawling over the runner, with Cloud sitting astride the small of his back, a very uncomfortable
part of the body with which to support a weighty opponent. But he would not have minded that
alone; but when Cloud arose his foot came into violent contact with Joel's head, which caused
that youth to see stars, and left a small cut back of his ear.

"That wasn't an accident," muttered Joel, as he picked himself up and eyed Cloud. But the latter
was unconcernedly moving to his position, and Joel gave his head a shake or two and resolved
to forgive and forget. A play similar to the last was next tried with an outlet on the other
side, outside tackle. But it resulted in a loss of a yard, and at the next down the ball was
thrown back to Joel, who made a poor catch and followed it with a short high punt to the opponent's
forty yards.

"Your head's cut, March," said Wills, as they took up the new position. Joel nodded. "Cloud,"
he answered briefly.

"Punch him," answered Wills. "He's mad because he made such a bull of his play in the other
half. If he tries tricks with me--"

"If he does, let him alone, if you want to stay on the team," said Joel. "That sort of thing
doesn't help. Watch your chance and spoil a play of his. That's the best way to get even."

The next ten minutes were spent in desperate attack on the part of the first and an equally
desperate defense by the second eleven. Twenty yards of gain for the former was the result,
and the half was nearly up. On a first down Blair ran back and Joel, whispering "Kick!" to
himself, turned and raced farther back from the line. Then the ball was snapped, there was
a crossing of backs, and suddenly, far out around the right end came Cloud with the pigskin
tightly clutched, guarded by Post and the left end. It was an unexpected play, and the second's
halfs saw it too late. Meach and Wills were shouldered out of the way, and Cloud ran free from
his interference and bore down on Joel, looking very big and ugly.

It was Cloud's opportunity to redeem himself, and with only a green full-back between him and
the goal line his chances looked bright indeed. But he was reckoning without his host. Joel
started gingerly up to meet him. The field was streaming down on Cloud's heels, but too far
away to be in the running. Ten yards distant from Joel, Cloud's right arm stretched out to
ward off a tackle, and his face grew ugly.

"Keep off!" he hissed as Joel prepared for a tackle. But Joel had no mind for keeping off;
that cut in his head was aching like everything, and his own advice to Wills occurred to him
and made him grin. Cloud swerved sharply, but he was too heavy to be a good dodger, and with
a leap Joel was on him, tackling hard and true about the runner's hips. Cloud struggled, made
a yard, another, then came to earth with Joel's head snugly pillowed on his shoulder. A shout
arose from the crowd. The field came up and Joel scrambled to his feet. Cloud, his face red
with chagrin and anger, leaped to his feet, and stepping toward Joel aimed a vicious blow at
his face. The latter ducked and involuntarily raised his fist; then, ere Greer and some of
the others stepped between, turned and walked away.

"That will do, Cloud," said Remsen in sharp, incisive tones. "You may leave."

And with a muttered word of anger Cloud strode from the field, passing through the silent and
unsympathetic throng with pale face and black looks.

"First's ball down here," cried Greer, and play went on; but Joel had lost his taste for it,
and when, a few minutes later, neither side having scored again, time was called, he trotted
back to the gymnasium in a depressed mood.

"You did great work," exclaimed Outfield West, as he joined Joel on the river path. "That settles
Cloud's chances. Remsen was laying for him anyhow, you know, and then that 'slugging!' Remsen
hates dirty playing worse than anything, they say."

"I'm sorry it happened, though," returned Joel.

"Pshaw! don't you be afraid of Cloud. He's all bluster."

"I'm not afraid of him. But I'm sorry he lost the team through me. Of course I couldn't have
let him go by, and I don't suppose it could have been helped, but I wish some one else had
tackled him."

"Of course, it couldn't have been helped," responded West cheerfully. "And I'm glad it couldn't.
My! isn't Cloud mad! I passed him a minute or two ago. 'You ought to try golf, Bart,' said
I. You should have seen the look he gave me. I guess it was rather like 'rubbing it in.'" And
West grinned hugely at the recollection.

"How about the tournament, West?" asked Joel.

"Fine! There are twelve entries, and we're going to begin at nine in the morning. I did the
fourth hole this afternoon in two, and the eighth in three. No one has ever done the fourth
in two before; it's the Bogey score. Don't forget that you have promised to go around with
me. They say Whipple is practicing every morning over in Turner's meadow. What with that and
football he's a pretty busy lad, I dare say. Don't forget, nine o'clock day after to-morrow."

And Outfield West waved his hand gayly and swung off toward Hampton House, while Joel entered
the gymnasium and was soon enjoying the luxury of a shower bath and listening to the conversation
of the others.

"There'll be a shake-up to-morrow," observed Warren as he rubbed himself dry with a big, crimson-bordered
towel. "Mr. Remsen wasn't any too well pleased to-day. He's going to put Greer on the scrub
to-morrow."

"That's where you might as well be," answered the big center good-naturedly. "The idea of playing
a criss-cross with your right end on the side-line!"

"We took two yards just the same," replied Warren.

"We gave it to you, my lad, because we knew that if you lost on such a fool play your name
would be--well, anything but Thomas 'Stumpy' Warren." The reply to this sally was a boot launched
at the center rush, for Tom Warren's middle name was in reality Saalfield, and "Stumpy" was
a cognomen rather too descriptive to be relished by the quarter-back. Greer returned the missile
with interest, and the fight grew warm, and boots and footballs and shin-guards filled the air.

In the dining hall that evening interest was divided between the golf match to be played on
the following Saturday morning and the football game with the Westvale Grammar School in the
afternoon. Golf had fewer admirers than had the other sport, but what there were were fully
as enthusiastic, and the coming tournament was discussed until Joel's head whirled with such
apparently outlandish terms as "Bogey," "baffy," "put," "green," "foozle," and "tee."

Whipple, Blair, and West all had their supporters, and Joel learned a number of marvelous facts,
as, for instance, that Whipple had "driven from Purgatory to The Hill in five," that Blair
was "putting better than Grimes did last year," and that "West had taken four to get out of
Sandy." All of which was undoubtedly intensely interesting, but was as so much Sanskrit to
Joel; and he walked back to his room after supper with a greatly increased respect for the
game of golf.

CHAPTER VII.

A LETTER HOME.

One of Joel's letters written to his mother at about this time contains much that will prove
of interest to the reader who has followed the fortunes of that youth thus far. It supplied
a certain amount of information appreciated only by its author and its recipient: facts regarding
woolen stockings; items about the manner in which the boy's washing was done; a short statement
of his financial condition; a weak, but very natural, expression of home-longing. But such
I will omit, as being too private in character for these pages.

"... I don't think you need worry. Outfield West is rather idle about study, but he doesn't
give Satan much of a show, for he's about the busiest fellow I know in school. He's usually
up a good hour before breakfast, which we have at eight o'clock, and puts in a half hour practicing
golf before chapel. Then in the afternoon he's at it again when the weather will let him, and
he generally spends his evenings, when not studying, in mending his clubs or painting balls.
Then he's one of the canvassers for the class crew; and belongs to the Senior Debating Club,
which draws its members from the two upper classes; and he's president of the Golf Club. So
you can see that he's anything but idle, even if he doesn't bother much about lessons.

"He's naturally a very bright fellow; otherwise he couldn't get along with his classes. I grow
to like him better every day; he's such a manly, kind-hearted fellow, and one of the most popular
in school. He's rather big, with fine, broad shoulders, and awfully good-looking. He has light-brown
hair, about the color of Cousin George's, and bright blue eyes; and he always looks as though
he had just got out of the bath-tub--only stopped, of course, to put his clothes on. I guess
we must be pretty old-fashioned in our notions, we Maine country folks, because so many of
my pet ideas and beliefs have been changed since I came here. You know with us it has always
gone without dispute that rich boys are mean and worthless, if not really immoral. But here
they're not that way. I guess we never had much chance to study rich people up our way, mother.
At the grammar school all the fellows looked down on wealthy boys; but we never had any of
them around. The richest chap was Gilbert, whose father was a lumberman, and Gilbert used to
wear shoes that you wouldn't give to a tramp.

"I suppose West's father could buy Mr. Gilbert out twenty times and not miss the money. Outfield--isn't
it a queer name?--spends a lot of money, but not foolishly; I mean he has no bad habits, like
a few of the fellows. I hope you will meet him some time. Perhaps I could have him up to stay
a few days with me next summer. He'd be glad to come.

"No, my roommate, Sproule, doesn't improve any on acquaintance. But I've got so I don't mind
him much. I don't think he's really as mean as he makes you believe. He's having hard work
with his studies nowadays, and has less time to find fault with things.

"You ask how I spend my time. Dear little mother, you don't know what life in a big boarding
school like Hillton is. Why, I haven't an idle moment from one day's end to the next. Here's
a sample. This morning I got up just in time for chapel--I'm getting to be a terrible chap
for sleeping late--and then had breakfast. By that time it was quarter to nine. At nine I went
to my mathematics. Then came Latin, then English. At twelve I reported on the green and practiced
signals with the second squad until half past. Then came lunch. After lunch I scurried up to
my room and dug up on chemistry, which was at one-thirty. Then came Greek at half past two.
Then I had an hour of loafing--that is, I should have had it, but I was afraid of my to-morrow's
history, so put in part of the time studying that. At a little before four I hurried over to
the gymnasium, got into football togs, and reached the campus 'just in time to be in time.'
We had a stiff hour's practice with the ball and learned two new formations. When I got back
to the 'gym' it was a quarter past five. I had my bath, rubbed down, did two miles on the track,
exercised with the weights, and got to supper ten minutes late. West came over to the room
with me and stayed until I put him out, which was hard work because he's heavier than I am,
and I got my books out and studied until half an hour ago. It is now just ten o'clock, and
as soon as I finish this I shall tumble into bed and sleep like a top.

"I can't answer your question about Mr. Remsen, because I do not know him well enough to ask
about his home or relatives. But his first name is Stephen. Perhaps he is a relative of the
Remsens you mention. Some day I'll find out. Anyhow, he's the grandest kind of a fellow. I
suppose he's about thirty. He has plenty of money, West says, and is a lawyer by profession.
He has coached Hillton for three years, and the school has won two out of three of its big
games during those years. The big game, as they call it, is the game on Thanksgiving Day with
St. Eustace Academy, of Marshall. This fall it is played here....

"Please tell father that I am getting on well with my studies, but not to hope too much for
the Goodwin Scholarship. There are so many, many smart fellows here! Sometimes I think I haven't
a ghost of a show. But--well, I'm doing my best, and, after all, there are some other scholarships
that are worth getting, though I don't believe I shall be satisfied with any other. West says
I'm cheeky to even expect a show at the Goodwin.... All the professors are very nice; even
'Turkey.' His real name is Durkee, and he is professor of English. He is not popular among
the fellows, but is an awfully good instructor. The principal, Professor Wheeler, is called
'Wheels,' but it sounds worse than it is. Every one likes him. He is not at all old, and talks
to the fellows about football and golf; and West says he can play a fine game of the latter
when he tries.

"I have been elected to the Golf Club and have joined. It costs a dollar and a half for this
year, but West wanted me to join so much that I did. There are a lot of nice fellows in it--the
sort that it is well to know. And I am going to try for the Senior Debating Club after the
holidays.... Tell father that he wouldn't be so down on football if he could see the fellows
that play it here at Hillton. Mr. Remsen is head coach, as I have told you. Then there is an
advisory committee of one pupil, one graduate, and one professor. These are Wesley Blair, Mr.
Remsen, and Professor MacArthur. Then there is a manager, who looks after the business affairs;
and a trainer, who is Professor Beck; and, of course, a captain. Wesley Blair is the captain.
The second eleven is captained by Tom Warren, who is a fine player, and who is substitute quarter-back
on the first or school eleven. In a couple of weeks both the first and second go to training
tables: the first at one of the boarding houses in the village and the second in the school
dining hall. When that happens we go into training for sure, and have to be in bed every night
at ten sharp and get up every morning at seven. I'm pretty sure now of a place on the second,
and may possibly make the first before the season's done....

"Of course, I want the overcoat. But you had better send it as it is, and I will have the tailor
here in the village cut it over. He is very moderate in charges and does good work, so West
tells me, and in this way it will be sure to fit right. Thank father for me, please.... Good-night....

"Your loving son,

"JOEL."

The opportunity to inquire regarding Stephen Remsen's family connections presented itself to
Joel on the day preceding the golf tournament and the football game with Westvale. On account
of the latter there had been only a half hour of light practice for the two squads, and Joel
at half past four had gone to his room to study. But when it came time to puzzle out some problems
in geometry Joel found that his paper was used up, and, rather than borrow of his neighbors,
he pulled on his cap and started for the village store.

October had brought warm weather, and this afternoon, as he went along the maple-bordered road
that leads to the post office he found himself dawdling over the dusty grasses and bushes,
recognizing old friends and making new ones, as right-minded folks will when the sun is warm
and the birds sing beside the way. He watched a tiny chipmunk scamper along the top of the
stone wall and disappear in the branches of a maple, looked upward and saw a mass of fluffy
white clouds going northward, and thought wistfully of spring and the delights it promised
here in the Hudson Valley. The golden-rod had passed its prime, though here and there a yellow
torch yet lighted the shadowed tangles of shrub and vine beneath the wall, but the asters still
bloomed on, and it was while bending over a clump of them that Joel heard the whir of wheels
on the smooth road and turned to see a bicyclist speeding toward him from the direction of
the academy.

When the rider drew near, Joel recognized Stephen Remsen, and he withdrew toward the wall,
that the Coach might have the benefit of the level footpath and avoid the ruts. But instead
of speeding by, Remsen slowed down a few feet distant and jumped from his wheel.

"Hello, March!" was his greeting as he came up to that youth. "Are you studying botany?" Joel
explained that he had been only trying to identify the aster, a spray of which he had broken
off and still held in his hand.

"Perhaps I can tell you what it is," answered Remsen as he took it. "Yes, it's the Purple-Stemmed,
Aster puniceus. Isn't it common where you live?"

"I've never noticed it," answered Joel. "We have lots of the Novoe-Anglioe and spectabilis
in Maine, and some of the white asters. It must be very lovely about here in spring."

"Yes, it is. Spring is beautiful here, as it is everywhere. The valley of the Hudson is especially
rich in flora, I believe. I used to be very fond of the woods on Mount Adam when I was a boy
here at Hillton, and knew every tree in it." They were walking on toward the village, Remsen
rolling his bicycle beside him.

"It's a long while since then, I suppose, sir?" queried Joel.

"I graduated from Hillton ten years ago this coming June. I rowed stroke in the boat that spring,
and we won from Eustace by an eighth of a mile. And we nearly burned old Masters down to the
ground with our Roman candles and sky rockets. You room there, don't you, March?"

"Yes, sir; Number 34."

"That was Billy Mathews's room that year. Some time if you look under the carpet you'll find
a depression in the middle of the floor. That's where Billy made a bonfire one night and offered
up in sacrifice all his text-books. It took half an hour to put that fire out." Remsen was
smiling reminiscently.

"But what did he burn his books for, sir? Was it the end of the year?"

"No, but Billy had been expelled that day, and was celebrating the fact. He was a nice old
chap, was Billy Mathews. He's president of a Western railroad now." Joel laughed.

"That bonfire must have made as much commotion as some of the explosions in Number 15, Mr. Remsen."

"Hello! Are my efforts in pursuit of science still remembered here? Who told you about that,
March?"

"Mrs. Cowles. She said you were forever doing something terrible, but that you were such a
nice boy." Remsen laughed heartily as he replied:

"Well, don't pattern your conduct on mine or Mathews's, March. We weren't a very well-behaved
lot, I fear. But I don't believe our pranks did much harm. In those days football wasn't as
popular as it is to-day, at Hillton, and fellows couldn't work off their surplus animal spirits
thumping a pigskin as they can now. Football is a great benefactor in that way, March. It has
done away with hazing and street brawls and gate stealing and lots of other deviltry. By the
way, how are you getting on with the game?"

"I think I'm getting the hang of it, sir. I'm having a hard time with drop kicking, but I guess
I'll learn after a while."

"I'm sure you will. I'm going to have Blair give you a bit of coaching in it next week. He'll
have more time then, after he has finished with this golf business. Don't get discouraged.
Peg away. It's worth the work, March, and you have the making of a good back as soon as you
learn how to kick a goal and run a little faster. And whenever you're puzzled about anything
come to me and we'll work it out together. Will you?"

"Yes, sir, thank you."

"That's right. Well, here's where I turn off. Have you time to come and pay me a visit?"

"Not to-day, I'm afraid, Mr. Remsen. I'm just going to the post office for some paper, and--"

"Well, come and see me some time. I'm pretty nearly always at home in the evenings and will
be very glad to see you. And bring your friend West with you. That's my headquarters down there,
the yellow house; Mrs. Hutchins's. If you cut across the field here it will save you quite
a distance. Good-by; and get to bed early to-night, March, if you can. There's nothing like
a good sleep before a game."

"Good-by," answered Joel. Then, "Mr. Remsen, one minute, please, sir," he called. "Are you
any relation to the Remsens that live near Clairmont, in Maine, sir?"

"Why, I shouldn't wonder," answered Remsen, with a smile. "I think I've heard my father speak
of relatives in Maine, but I don't recollect where. Why do you ask?"

"My mother wrote me to find out. She's very much interested in people's relatives, Mr. Remsen,
and so I thought I'd ask and let her know. You didn't mind my asking you, did you?"

"Certainly not. Tell your mother, March, that I hope those Remsens are some of my folks, because
I should like to be related to her friends. And say, March, when you're writing to your mother
about me you needn't say anything about those explosions, need you?"

"I don't think it will be necessary, sir," laughed Joel.

"Very well; then just mention me as a dignified and reverend attorney-at-law, and we'll keep
the rest a secret between us."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE GOLF TOURNAMENT.

It was Saturday afternoon. The day was bright and sunny, and in the shelter of the grand stand
on the campus, where the little east wind could not rustle, it was comfortably warm. The grass
still held much of its summer verdancy, and the sky overhead was as deeply blue as on the mildest
spring day. After a week of dull or stormy weather yesterday and to-day, with their fair skies,
were as welcome as flowers in May, and gladness and light-heartedness were in the very air.

On the gridiron Westvale Grammar School and Hillton Academy were trying conclusions. On the
grand stand all Hillton, academy and village, was assembled, and here and there a bright dress
or wrap indicated the presence of a mother or sister in the throng. The Westvale team had arrived,
accompanied by a coterie of enthusiastic supporters, armed with tin horns, maroon-colored banners,
and mighty voices, which, with small hopes of winning on the field, were resolved to accomplish
a notable victory of sound. On the side-line, with a dozen other substitutes whose greatest
desire was to be taken on the first eleven, sat Joel. Outfield West was sprawled beside him
with his caddie bag clutched to his breast, and the two boys were discussing the game. West
had arrived upon the scene but a moment before.

"We'll beat them by about a dozen points, I guess," Joel was prophesying. "They say the score
was twenty to nothing last year, but Remsen declares the first isn't nearly as far advanced
as it was this time last season. Just hear the racket those fellows are making! You ought to
have seen Blair kick down the field a while ago. I thought the ball never would come down,
and I guess Westvale thought so too. Their full-back nearly killed himself running backward,
and finally caught it on their five-yard line, and had it down there. Then Greer walked through,
lugging Andrews for a touch-down, after Westvale had tried three times to move the ball. There's
the whistle; half's up. How is the golf getting along?"

"Somers and Whipple were at Look Off when I came away. I asked Billy Jones to come over and
call me when they got to The Hill. I think Whipple will win by a couple of strokes. Somers
is too nervous. I wish they'd hurry up. We'll not get through the last round before dark if
they don't finish soon. You'll go round with me, won't you?"

"If the game's over. They're playing twenty-minute halves, you know; so I guess it will be.
I hope Blair will let me on this half. Have you seen Cloud?"

"Yes; he's over on the seats. Who has his place?"

"Ned Post; and Clausen's playing at right. I'm glad that Blair is doing such good work to-day.
I think he was rather cut up about getting beaten this morning."

"Yes; wasn't that hard luck? To think of his being downed by a cub of a junior! Though that
same junior is going to be a fine player some day. He drives just grand. He had too much handicap,
he did. Remsen didn't know anything about him, and allowed him ten. Here they come again."

The two elevens were trotting out on the field once more, and Joel stood up in the hope that
Blair might see him and decide to take him on. But Joel was doomed to disappointment, for the
second half of the game began with practically the same line-up. The score stood six to nothing
in favor of Hillton. The playing had been decidedly ragged on both sides; and Remsen, as he
left the team after administering a severe lecture, walked past with a slight frown on his face.

"Well, I guess I'll go over and see if I can hurry those chumps up some." West swung his bag
over his shoulder and turned away. "When the game's done, hurry over, March. You'll find us
somewhere on the course." Joel nodded, and West sauntered away toward the links. The second
half of the game was similar to the first, save in that Remsen's scolding had accomplished
an awakening, and the first put more snap into its playing. Six more points were scored from
a touch-down by the Hillton right end, after a thirty-yard run, followed by a difficult goal
by Blair. But the Westvale rooters kept up their cheering bravely to the end, and took defeat
with smiling faces and upraised voices; and long after the coach containing them had passed
from sight their cheers could still be heard in the distance toward the station.

The bulk of the spectators turned at the conclusion of the match toward the links, and Joel
followed in his football togs. At Home Hole he found Whipple and West preparing for the deciding
round of the tournament, and the latter greeted him with a shout, and put his clubs into his
keeping. Then Whipple went to the tee and led off with a long drive for the first hole, and
the round began. West followed with a shorter shot and the march was taken up.

The links at Hilton consists of nine holes, five out and four in. The entire length of the
course is a trifle over one and a half mile, and although the land is upland meadow and given
to growing long grass, yet the course is generally conceded to be excellent. The holes are
short, allowing the round to be accomplished by a capable player in thirty-two strokes. The
course has thirteen bunkers of varying sizes, besides two water hazards at the inlet and outlet
of the lake. The lake itself is spoiled as a hazard by the thick grove of trees on the side
nearest the Academy. Sometimes a poor drive lands a ball in that same grove, and there is much
trial and tribulation ere the player has succeeded in dislodging it from the underbrush.

While generally level, the course is diversified by slight elevations, upon which are the putting
greens, their red and white flags visible from all parts of the links. As has been said, the
holes are short, the longest, Lake Hole, being four hundred and ninety-six yards, and the shortest,
the first, but one hundred and thirty-three. Outfield West once spent the better part of two
weeks, at great cost to his class standing, in making a plan of the links, and, while it is
not warranted accurate as to distances, it is reproduced here with his permission as giving
a clearer idea of the ground than any verbal description.

Play had begun this morning at nine o'clock, and by noon only Somers, Whipple, and West had
been left in the match. Blair had encountered defeat most unexpectedly at the hands of Greene,
a junior, of whose prowess but little had been known by the handicapper; for, although Blair
had done the round in three strokes less than his adversary's gross score, the latter's allowance
of six strokes had placed him an easy winner. But Blair had been avenged later by West, who
had defeated the youngster by three strokes in the net. In the afternoon Somers and Whipple
had met, and, as West had predicted, the latter won by two strokes.

And now West and Whipple, both excellent players, and sworn enemies of the links, were fighting
it out, and on this round depended the possession of the title of champion and the ownership
for one year of the handicap cup, a modest but highly prized pewter tankard. Medal Play rules
governed to-day, and the scoring was by strokes.

Whipple reached the first green in one stroke, but used two more to hole-out. West took two
short drives to reach a lie, from which he dropped his ball into the hole in one try. And the
honors were even. The next hole was forty yards longer, and was played either in two short
drives or one long drive and an approach shot. It contained two hazards, Track Bunker and High
Bunker, the latter alone being formidable. Whipple led off with a long shot that went soaring
up against the blue and then settled down as gently as a bird just a few yards in front of
High Bunker. He had reversed his play of the last hole, and was now relying on his approach
shot for position. West played a rather short drive off an iron which left his ball midway
between the two bunkers. Whipple's next stroke took him neatly out of danger and on to the
putting green, but West had fared not so well.

There was a great deal of noise from the younger boys who were looking on, much discussion
of the methods of play, and much loud boasting of what some one else would have done under
existing circumstances. West glanced up once and glared at one offending junior, and an admonitory
"Hush!" was heard. But he was plainly disturbed, and when the little white sphere made its
flight it went sadly aglee and dropped to earth far to the right of the green, and where rough
and cuppy ground made exact putting well-nigh impossible. Professor Beck promptly laid down
a command of absolute silence during shots, and some of the smaller youths left the course
in favor of another portion of the campus, where a boy's right to make all the noise he likes
could not be disputed. But the harm was done, and when play for the third hole began the score
was: Whipple 7, West 8.

Even to one of such intense ignorance of the science of golf as Joel March, there was a perceptible
difference in the style of the two competitors. Outfield West was a great stickler for form,
and imitated the full St. Andrews swing to the best of his ability. In addressing the ball
he stood as squarely to it as was possible, without the use of a measuring tape, and drove
off the right leg, as the expression is. Despite an almost exaggerated adherence to nicety
of style, West's play had an ease and grace much envied by other golf disciples in the school,
and his shots were nearly always successful.

Whipple's manner of driving was very different from his opponent's. His swing was short and
often stopped too soon. His stance was rather awkward, after West's, and even his hold on the
club was not according to established precedent. Yet, notwithstanding all this, it must be
acknowledged that Whipple's drives had a way of carrying straight and far and landing well.

Joel followed the play with much interest if small appreciation of its intricacies, and carried
West's bag, and hoped all the time that that youth would win, knowing how greatly he had set
his heart upon so doing.

There is no bunker between second and third holes, but the brook which supplies the lake runs
across the course and is about six yards wide from bank to bank. But it has no terrors for
a long drive, and both the players went safely over and won Academy Hole in three strokes.
West still held the odd. Two long strokes carried Whipple a scant distance from Railroad Bunker,
which fronts Ditch Hole, a dangerous lie, since Railroad Bunker is high and the putting green
is on an elevation, almost meriting the title of hill, directly back of it. But if Whipple
erred in judgment or skill, West found himself in even a sorrier plight when two more strokes
had been laid to his score. His first drive with a brassie had fallen rather short, and for
the second he had chosen an iron. The ball sailed off on a long flight that brought words of
delight from the spectators, but which caused Joel to look glum and West to grind the turf
under his heel in anger. For, like a thing possessed, that ball fell straight into the very
middle of the bunker, and when it was found lay up to its middle in gravel.

West groaned as he lifted the ball, replaced it loosely in its cup, and carefully selected
a club. Whipple meanwhile cleared the bunker in the best of style, and landed on the green
in a good position to hole out in two shots. "Great Gobble!" muttered West as he swung his
club, and fixed his eye on a point an inch and a half back of the imbedded ball, "if I don't
get this out of here on this shot, I'm a gone goose!" March grinned sympathetically but anxiously,
and the onlookers held their breath. Then back went the club--there was a scattering of sand
and gravel, and the ball dropped dead on the green, four yards from the hole.

"Excellent!" shouted Professor Beck, and Joel jumped in the air from sheer delight. "Good for
you, Out!" yelled Dave Somers; and the rest of the watchers echoed the sentiment in various
ways, even those who desired to see Whipple triumphant yielding their meed of praise for the
performance. And, "I guess, Out," said Whipple ruefully, "you might as well take the cup."
But Outfield West only smiled silently in response, and followed his ball with businesslike
attention to the game.

Whipple was weak on putting, and his first stroke with an iron failed to carry his ball to
the hole. West, on the contrary, was a sure player on the green, and now with his ball but
four yards from the hole he had just the opportunity he desired to better his score. The green
was level and clean, and West selected a small iron putter, and addressed the ball with all
the attention to form that the oldest St. Andrews veteran might desire. Playing on the principle
that it is better to go too far than not far enough, since the hole is larger than the ball,
West gave a long stroke, and the gutta-percha disappeared from view. Whipple holed out on his
next try, adopting a wooden putter this time, and the score stood fifteen strokes each.

The honor was West's, and he led off for End Hole with a beautiful brassie drive that cleared
the first two bunkers with room to spare. Whipple, for the first time in the round, drove poorly,
toeing his ball badly, and dropping it almost off of the course and just short of the second
bunker. West's second drive was a loft over Halfway Bunker that fell fairly on the green and
rolled within ten feet of the hole. From there, on the next shot, he holed out very neatly
in eighteen. Whipple meanwhile had redeemed himself with a high lofting stroke that carried
past the threatening dangers of Masters Bunker and back on to the course within a few yards
of West's lie. But again skill on the putting green was wanting, and he required two strokes
to make the hole. Once more the honor was West's, and that youth turned toward home with a
short and high stroke. The subsequent hole left the score "the like" at 22, and the seventh
gave Whipple, 25, West 26.

"But here's where Mr. West takes the lead," confided that young gentleman to Joel as they walked
to the teeing ground. "From here to Lake Hole is four hundred and ninety-six yards, and I'm
going to do it in three shots on to the green. You watch!"

Four hundred and ninety-odd yards is nothing out of the ordinary for an older player, but to
a lad of seventeen it is a creditable distance to do in three drives. Yet that is what West
did it in; and strange to relate, and greatly to that young gentleman's surprise, Whipple duplicated
the performance, and amid the excited whispers of the onlookers the two youths holed out on
their next strokes; and the score still gave the odd to West--29 to 30.

"I didn't think he could do it," whispered West to Joel, "and that makes it look bad for your
uncle Out. But never mind, my lad, there's still Rocky Bunker ahead of us, and--" West did
not complete his remark, but his face took on a very determined look as he teed his ball. The
last hole was in sight, and victory hovered overhead.

Now, the distance from Lake Hole to the Home Hole is but a few yards over three hundred, and
it can be accomplished comfortably in two long brassie drives. Midway lies The Hill, a small
elevation rising from about the middle of the course to the river bluff, and there falling
off sheer to the beach below. It is perhaps thirty yards across, and if the ball reaches it
safely it forms an excellent place from which to make the second drive. So both boys tried
for The Hill. Whipple landed at the foot of it, while West came plump upon the side some five
yards from the summit, and his next drive took him cleanly over Rocky Bunker and to the right
of the Home Green. But Whipple summoned discretion to his aid, and instead of trying to make
the green on the next drive, played short, and landed far to the right of the Bunker. This
necessitated a short approach, and by the time he had gained the green and was "made" within
holing distance of the flag, the score was once more even, and the end was in sight.

And now the watchers moved about restlessly, and Joel found his heart in his throat. But West
gripped his wooden putter firmly and studied the situation. It was quite possible for a skillful
player to hole out on the next stroke from Whipple's lie. West, on the contrary, was too far
distant to possess more than one chance in ten of winning the hole in one play. Whether to
take that one chance or to use his next play in bettering his lie was the question. Whipple,
West knew, was weak on putting, but it is ever risky to rely on your opponent's weakness. While
West pondered, Whipple studied the lay of the green with eyes that strove to show no triumph,
and the little throng kept silence save for an occasional nervous whisper.

Then West leaned down and cleared a pebble from before his ball. It was the veriest atom of
a pebble that ever showed on a putting green, but West was willing to take no chances beyond
those that already confronted him. His mind was made up. Gripping his iron putter firmly rather
low on the shaft and bending far over, West slowly, cautiously swung the club above the gutty,
glancing once and only once as he did so at the distant goal. Then there was a pause. Whipple
no longer studied his own play; his eyes were on that other sphere that nestled there so innocently
against the grass. Joel leaned breathlessly forward. Professor Beck muttered under his breath,
and then cried "S--sh!" to himself in an angry whisper. And then West's club swung back gently,
easily, paused an instant--and--

Forward sped the ball--on and on--slower--slower--but straight as an arrow--and then--Presto!
it was gone from sight!

A moment of silence followed ere the applause broke out, and in that moment Professor Beck
announced:

"The odd to Whipple. Thirty-two to thirty-three."

Then the group became silent again. Whipple addressed his ball. It was yet possible to tie
the score. His face was pale, and for the first time during the tournament he felt nervous.
A better player could scarce have missed the hole from Whipple's lie, but for once that youth's
nerve forsook him and he hit too short; the ball stopped a foot from the hole. The game was
decided. Professor Beck again announced the score:

"The two more to Whipple. Thirty-two to thirty-four."

Again Whipple addressed his ball, and this time, but too late to win the victory, the tiny
sphere dropped neatly into the hole, and the throng broke silence. And as West and Whipple,
victor and vanquished, shook hands over the Home Hole, Professor Beck announced:

"Thirty-two to thirty-five. West wins the Cup!"

CHAPTER IX.

AN EVENING CALL.

The last week of October brought chilling winds and flying clouds. Life at Hillton Academy
had gone on serenely since West's victory on the links. The little pewter tankard reposed proudly
upon his mantel beside a bottle of chow-chow, and bore his name as the third winner of the
trophy. But West had laid aside his clubs, save for an occasional hour at noon, and, abiding
by his promise to Joel, he had taken up his books again with much resolution, if little ardor.
Hillton had met and defeated two more football teams, and the first eleven was growing gradually
stronger. Remsen was seen to smile now quite frequently during practice, and there was a general
air of prosperity about the gridiron.

The first had gone to its training table at "Mother" Burke's, in the village, and the second
ate its meals in the center of the school dining hall with an illy concealed sense of self-importance.
And the grinds sneered at its appetites, and the obscure juniors admired reverently from afar.
Joel had attended both recitations and practice with exemplary and impartial regularity, and
as a result his class standing was growing better and better on one hand, and on the other
his muscles were becoming stronger, his flesh firmer, and his brain clearer.

The friendship between him and Outfield West had ripened steadily, until now they were scarcely
separable. 7. Charlotte Street, Bedford Square.

Story of Ezzelin.-- Where is the story to be found from which Fuseli derived the subject for his
remarkable picture of Ezzelin (Braccioferro) musing over the body
of Meduna? It was engraved by J. R. Smith, and published by Jas. What do you say?"

"I should like to first rate, but I can't pay the rent there," Joel had objected.

"Then pay the same as you're paying for your den in Masters," replied West. "You see, Joel,
I have to pay the rent for Number 2 Hampton anyhow, and it won't make any difference whether
I have another fellow in with me or not. Only, if you pay as much of my rent as you're paying
now, why, that will make it so much cheaper for me. Don't you see?"

"Yes, but if I use half the room I ought to pay half, the rent." And to this Joel stood firm
until West's constant entreaties led to a compromise. West was to put the matter before his
father, and Joel before his. If their parents sanctioned it, Joel was to apply for the change
of abode. As yet the matter was still in abeyance.

Richard Sproule, as West had suggested rather more forcibly than politely, was becoming more
and more objectionable, and Joel was not a bit grieved at the prospect of leaving him. Of late,
intercourse between the roommates had become reduced to rare monosyllables. This was the outcome
of a refusal on Joel's part to give a portion of his precious study time to helping Sproule
with his lessons. Once or twice Joel had consented to assist his roommate, and had done so
to the detriment of his own affairs; but the result to both had proved so unsatisfactory that
Joel had stoutly refused the next request. Thereupon Sproule had considered himself deeply
aggrieved, and usually spent the time when Joel was present in sulking.

Bartlett Cloud, since his encounter with Joel on the field the afternoon that he was put off
the team, had had nothing to say to him, though his looks when they met were always dark and
threatening. But in a school as large as Hillton there is plenty of room to avoid an objectionable
acquaintance, so long as you are not under the same roof with him, and consequently Cloud and
Joel seldom met. The latter constantly regretted having made an enemy of the other, but beyond
this regret his consideration of Cloud seldom went.

So far Joel had not found an opportunity to accept the invitation that Remsen had extended
to him, though that invitation had since been once or twice repeated. But to-night West and
he had made arrangement to visit Remsen at his room, and had obtained permission from Professor
Wheeler to do so. The two boys met at the gymnasium after supper was over and took their way
toward the village. West had armed himself with a formidable stick, in the hope, loudly expressed
at intervals, that they would be set upon by tramps. But Remsen's lodgings were reached without
adventure, and the lads were straightway admitted to a cosey study, wherein, before an open
fire, sat Remsen and a guest. After a cordial welcome from Remsen the guest was introduced
as Albert Digbee.

"Yes, we know each other," said West, as he shook hands. "We both room in Hampton, but Digbee's
a grind, you know, and doesn't care to waste his time on us idlers." Digbee smiled.

"It isn't inclination, West; I don't have the time, and so don't attempt to keep up with you
fellows." He shook Joel's hand. "I'm glad to meet you. I've heard of you before."

Then the quartet drew chairs up to the blaze, and, as Remsen talked, Joel examined his new
acquaintance.

Digbee was a year older than West and Joel. He was in the senior class, and was spoken of as
one of the smartest boys in the school. Although a Hampton House resident, he seldom was seen
with the others save at the table, and was usually referred to among themselves as "Dig," both
because that suggested his Christian name and because, as they said, he was forever digging
at his books. In appearance Albert Digbee was a tall, slender, but scarcely frail youth, with
a cleanly cut face that looked, in the firelight, far too pale. His eyes were strikingly bright,
and though his smiles were infrequent, his habitual expression was one of eager and kindly
interest. Joel had often come across him in class, and had long wanted to know him.

"You see, boys," Remsen was saying, "Digbee here is of the opinion that athletics in general
and football in particular are harmful to schools and colleges as tending to draw the attention
of pupils from their studies, and I maintain the opposite. Now, what's your opinion, West?
Digbee and I have gone over it so often that we would like to hear some one else on the subject."

"Oh, I don't know," replied West. "If fellows would give up football and go in for golf, there
wouldn't be any talk about athletics being hurtful. Golf's a game that a chap can play and
get through with and have some time for study. You don't have to train a month to play for
an hour; it's a sport that hasn't become a business."

"I can testify," said Joel gravely, "that Out is a case in point. He plays golf, and has time
left to study--how to play more golf."

"Well, anyhow, you know I do study some lately, Joel," laughed West. Joel nodded with serious mien.

"I think you've made a very excellent point in favor of golf, West," said Digbee. "It hasn't
been made a business, at least in this school. But won't it eventually become quite as much
of a pursuit as football now is?"

"Oh, it may become as popular, but, don't you see, it will never become as--er--exacting on
the fellows that play it. You can play golf without having to go into training for it."

"Nevertheless, West," replied the head coach, "if a fellow can play golf without being in training,
doesn't it stand to reason that the same fellow can play a better game if he is in training?
That is, won't he play a better game if he is in better trim?"

"Yes, I guess so, but he will play a first-class game if he doesn't train."

"But not as good a game as he will if he does train?"

"I suppose not," admitted West.

"Well, now, a fellow can play a very good game of football if he isn't in training," continued
Remsen, "but that same fellow, if he goes to bed and gets up at regular hours, and eats decent
food at decent times, and takes care of himself in such a way as to improve his mental, moral,
and physical person, will play a still better game and derive more benefit from it. When golf
gets a firmer hold on this side of the Atlantic, schools and colleges will have their golf
teams of, say, from two to a dozen players. The soul may be tainted by the flesh: but how the
flesh can be soul-tainted, I cannot understand.

Turning further back, to p. 69., we find it asserted, quite dogmatically,
that the word "truths" of the folios ought to be "proofs;" but no
reason whatever is offered for the change.

I cannot help thinking that "seeming truths" is much the most poetical
expression, while in "seeming proofs" there is something like redundancy,-- to
say nothing of the phrase being infinitely more common-place!

In the play of the Tempest, p. 4., the beautiful passage-- "he being
thus lorded Not only with what my revenue yielded,"& c., is degraded
into "he being thus loaded,"& c. Can there be a moment's doubt that
"lorded" was the word used by Shakspeare?

It is completely in his style, which was on all occasions to coin
verbs out of substantives, if he could.

"He being thus lorded," i. e. ennobled "with what my revenue yielded," is surely a far superior
expression to "being thus loaded,"-- as if the poet were speaking of a costermonger's donkey!
Again, in p. 10.: "Wherefore this ghastly looking?" or, this ghastly
appearance?

Who will venture to say, that the substitution of "thus ghastly looking" is not decidedly a change
for the worse? In the Merchant of Venice, p. 118.: "and leave itself
unfurnished," is altered to "leave itself unfinished!"

I confess
I cannot see the slightest warrant for this change.

The words-- "having made one, Methinks IT should have power to steal
both his," distinctly show that the author was alluding to the eye
only, and not to the portrait and how could the eye (already made)
describe itself as unfinished?

Surely the sense is unfurnished, that is, unfurnished with its companion, or probably with the
other accessories required to complete the portrait.

P. 119. has the line-- "And swearing'til my very roof was dry," transmogrified
into-- "And swearing'til my very tongue was dry."

Now, why "this lame and impotent conclusion?"

What can be a more common expression than the "roof of the mouth?" and it is just the part which
is most affected by a sensation of dryness and pricking, after any
excitement in speaking, whereas the tongue is not the member that
suffers!

In As You Like It, p. 127., in the line-- "Mistress dispatch you
with your safest haste," the last two words are made "fastest haste,"
which, to say the least, are tautology, and are like talking, of the
"highest height", or the the "deepest depth!"

Surely, the original form of words, "Dispatch you with your safest haste;" that is, with as much
haste as is consistent with your personal safety-- is much more dignified and polished address from
the duke to a lady, and at the same time more poetical! In p. 129., "The constant service of the
antique world," is converted into "The constant favour of the antique
world:" in which line I cannot discover any sense.

If I might hazard a guess, I should suggest that the error is in
the second word, "service," and that it ought to be "servants:" "When
servants sweat for duty, not for meed."

In the Taming of the Shrew, p. 143., the substitution of "Warwickshire
ale" for "sheer ale" strikes me as very far-fetched, and wholly unnecessary.

There is no defect of sense in the term "sheer ale."

Sly means to say, he was "fourteen pence on the score for ale alone:"
just as one speaks of "sheer nonsense," i. e. nothing but nonsense,
"sheer buffoonery," "sheer malice,"& c. Why should Sly talk of being
in debt for Warwickshire ale at Wincot?

"You know the ground you argue from, and because I have overwhelmed you with talk it does not
necessarily follow that I am right," responded his host courteously. "But enough of such dull
themes. There's West most asleep.--March, have you heard from your mother lately?"

"Yes, I received a letter from her yesterday morning. She writes that she's glad the relationship
is settled finally; says she's certain that any kin of the Maine Remsens is a person of good,
strong moral character." When the laugh had subsided, Remsen turned to West.

"Have you ever heard of Tommy Collingwood?"

"Wasn't he baseball captain a good many years ago?"

"Yes, and used to row in the boat. Well, Tommy was a good deal better at spinning top on Academy
steps than doing lessons, and a deal fonder of playing shinney than writing letters. But Tommy's
mother always insisted that Tommy should write home once a week, and Tommy's father wrote and
explained what would happen to Tommy if he didn't obey his mother; and as Tommy's folks lived
just over in Albany it was a small thing for Tommy's father to run over some day with a strap;
so Tommy obeyed his parents and every week wrote home. His letters weren't long, nor were they
filled with a wealth of detail, but they answered the purpose in lieu of better. Each one ran:
'Hillton Academy, Hillton, N.Y.,' with the date. 'Dear Father and Mother, I am well and studying
hard. Your loving son, Thomas Collingwood.'

"Well, when Christmas recess came, Tommy went home. And one day his mother complimented Tommy
on the regularity of his correspondence. Tommy looked sheepish. 'To tell the truth, mother,
I didn't write one of those letters each week,' explained Tommy. 'But just after school opened
I was sick for a week, and didn't have anything to do; so I wrote 'I am well' twelve times,
and dated each ahead.'"

Digbee accompanied the other two lads back to the yard, and he and March discussed studies,
while West mooned along, whistling half aloud and thrashing the weeds and rocks with his cudgel,
for the tramps refused to appear on the scene. He and Digbee went out of their way to see Joel
safely to his dormitory, and then Joel accompanied them on their homeward way as far as Academy
Building. There good-nights were said, and Joel, feeling but little inclined for sleep, drew
his collar up and strolled to the front of the building, where, from the high steps, the river
was visible for several miles in either direction. The moon was struggling out from a mass
of somber clouds overhead, and the sound of the waters as they swirled around the rocky point
was plainly heard.

Joel sat there on the steps, under the shadow of the dark building, thinking of many things,
and feeling very happy and peaceful, until a long, shrill sound from the north told of the
coming of the 9.48 train; then he made his way back to Masters, up the dim stairs, and into
his room, where Dickey Sproule lay huddled in bed reading The Three Guardsmen by the screened
light of a guttering candle.

CHAPTER X.

THE BROKEN BELL ROPE.

Joel arrived at chapel the following morning just as the doors were being closed. Duffy, the
wooden-legged doorkeeper, was not on duty, and the youth upon whom his duties had devolved
allowed Joel to pass without giving his name for report as tardy. During prayers there was
an evident atmosphere of suppressed excitement among the pupils, but not until chapel was over
did Joel discover the cause.

"Were you here when it happened?" asked West.

"When what happened?" responded Joel.

"Haven't you heard? Why, some one cut the bell rope, and when 'Peg-leg' went to ring chapel
bell the rope broke up in the tower and came down on his head and laid him out there on the
floor, and some of the fellows found him knocked senseless. And they've taken him to the infirmary.
You know the rope's as big as your wrist, and it hit him on top of the head. I guess he isn't
much hurt, but 'Wheels' is as mad as never was, and whoever did it will have a hard time, I'll
bet!"

"Poor old Duffy!" said Joel. "Let's go over and find out if he's much hurt. It was a dirty
sort of a joke to play, though I suppose whoever did it didn't think it would hurt any one."

At the infirmary they found Professor Gibbs in the office.

"No, boys, he isn't damaged much. He'll be all right in a few hours. I hope that the ones who
did it will be severely punished. It was a most contemptible trick to put up on Duffy."

"I hope so too," answered West indignantly. "You may depend that no upper middle boy did it,
sir." The professor smiled.

"I hope you are right, West."

At noon hour Joel was summoned to the principal's office. Professor Wheeler, the secretary,
and Professor Durkee were present, and as Joel entered he scented an air of hostility. The
secretary closed the door behind him.

"March, I have sent for you to ask whether you can give us any information which will lead
to the apprehension of the perpetrators of the trick which has resulted in injury to Mr. Duffy.
Can you?"

"No, sir," responded Joel.

"You know absolutely nothing about it?"

"Nothing, sir, except what I have been told."

"By whom?"

"Outfield West, sir, after chapel. We went to the infirmary to inquire about 'Peg'--about Mr.
Duffy, sir." The secretary repressed a smile. The principal was observing Joel very closely,
and Professor Durkee moved impatiently in his seat.

"I can not suppose," continued the principal, "that the thing was done simply as a school joke.
The boy who cut the rope must have known when he did so that the result would be harmful to
whoever rang the chapel bell this morning. I wish it understood that I have no intention of
dealing leniently with the culprit, but, at the same time, a confession, if made now, will
have the effect of mitigating his punishment." He paused. Joel turned an astonished look from
him to Professor Durkee, who, meeting it, frowned and turned impatiently away. "You have nothing
more to tell me, March?"

"Why, no, sir," answered Joel in a troubled voice. "I don't understand. Am I suspected--of--of
this--thing, sir?"

"Dear me, sir," exclaimed Professor Durkee, explosively, turning to the principal, "it's quite
evident that--"

"One moment, please," answered the latter firmly. The other subsided.--"You had town leave
last night, March?"

"Yes, sir."

"You went with Outfield West?"

"Yes, sir."

"What time did you return to your room?"

"At about a quarter to ten, sir."

"You are certain as to the time?"

"I only know that I heard the down train whistle as I left Academy Building. I went right to
my room, sir."

"Was the door of Academy Building unlocked last night?"

"I don't know. I didn't try it, sir."

"What time did you leave Mr. Remsen's house?"

"A few minutes after nine."

"You came right back here?"

"Yes, sir. We came as far as Academy Building, and West and Digbee went home. I sat on the
front steps here until I heard the whistle blow. Then I went to my room."

"Why did you sit on the steps, March?"

"I wasn't sleepy; and the moon was coming out--and--I wanted to think."

"Do you hear from home very often?"

"Once or twice a week, sir."

"When did you get a letter last, and from whom was it?"

"From my mother, about three days ago."

"Have you that letter?"

"Yes, sir. It is in my room."

"You sometimes carry your letters in your pocket?"

"Why, yes, but not often. If I receive them on the way out of the building I put them in my
pocket, and then put them away when I get back."

"Where do you keep them?"

"In my bureau drawer."

"It is kept locked?"

"No, sir. I never lock it."

"Do you remember what was in that last letter?"

"Yes, sir."

"Was any one mentioned in it?"

"Yes, sir. Mr. Remsen was mentioned. And Outfield West, and my brother, and father."

"Is this your letter?" Professor Wheeler extended it across the desk, and Joel took it wonderingly.

"Why, yes, sir. But where--I don't understand--!" Again he looked toward Professor Durkee in
bewilderment.

"Nor do I," answered that gentleman dryly.

"March," continued the principal, as he took the letter again, "this was found this morning,
after the accident, on the floor of the bell tower. Do you know how it came there?" Joel's
cheeks reddened and then grew white as the full meaning of the words reached him. His voice
suddenly grew husky.

"No, sir, I do not." The words were spoken very stoutly and rang with sincerity. A silence
fell on the room. Professor Wheeler glanced inquiringly at Professor Durkee, and the latter
made a grimace of impatience that snarled his homely face into a mass of wrinkles.

"Look here, boy," he snapped, "who do you think dropped that letter there?"

"I can't think, sir. I can't understand it at all. I've never been in the tower since I've
been in school."

"Do you know of any one who might like to get you into trouble in such a way as this?"

"No, sir," answered Joel promptly. Then a sudden recollection of Bartlett Cloud came to him,
and he hesitated. Professor Durkee observed it.

"Well?" he said sharply.

"I know of no one, sir."

"Humph!" grunted the professor, "you do, but you won't say."

"If you suspect any one it will be best to tell us, March," said Professor Wheeler, more kindly.
"You must see that the evidence is much against you, and, while I myself can not believe that
you are guilty, I shall be obliged to consider you so until proof of your innocence is forthcoming.
Have you any enemy in school?"

"I think not, sir."

The door opened and Remsen appeared.

"Good-morning," he said. "You wished to see me, professor?"

"Yes, in a moment. Sit down, please, Remsen." Remsen nodded to Joel and the secretary, shook
hands with Professor Durkee, and took a chair. The principal turned again to Joel.

"You wish me to understand, then, that you have no explanation to offer as to how the letter
came to be in the bell tower? Recollect that shielding a friend or any other pupil will do
neither you nor him any service."

Joel was hesitating. Was it right to throw suspicion on Bartlett Cloud by mentioning the small
occurrence on the football field so long before? It was inconceivable that Cloud would go to
such a length in mere spite. And yet--Remsen interrupted his thoughts.

"Professor, if you will dismiss March for a while, perhaps I can throw some light on the matter.
Let him return in half an hour or so." Professor Wheeler nodded.

"Come back at one o'clock, March," he said.

Outside Joel hesitated where to go. He must tell some one his trouble, and there was only one
who would really care. He turned toward Hampton House, then remembered that it was dinner hour
and that Outfield would be at table. He had forgotten his own dinner until that moment. In
the dining hall West was still lingering over his dessert. Joel took his seat at the training
table, explaining his absence by saying that he had been called to the office, and hurried
through a dinner of beef and rice and milk. When West arose Joel overtook him at the door.
And as the friends took their way toward Joel's room, he told everything to West in words that
tumbled over each other.

Outfield West heard him in silence after one exclamation of surprise, and when Joel had finished,
cried:

"Why didn't you tell about Cloud? Don't you see that this is his doing? That he is getting
even with you for his losing the football team?"

"I thought of that, Out, but it seemed too silly to suppose that he would do such a thing just
for--for that, you know."

"Well, you may be certain that he did do it; or, at least, if he didn't cut the rope himself,
found some one to do it for him. It's just the kind of a revenge that a fellow of his meanness
would think of. He won't stand up and fight like a man. Here, let's go and find him!"

"No, wait. I'll tell Professor Wheeler about him when I go back; then if he thinks--If he did
do it, Out, I'll lick him good for it!"

"Hooray! And when you get through I'll take a hand, too. But what do you suppose Remsen was
going to tell?"

Joel shook his head. They found Sproule in the room, and to him West spoke as follows:

"Hello, Dickey! You're not studying? It's not good for you; these sudden changes should be
avoided." Sproule laughed, but looked annoyed at the banter. "Joel and I have come up for a
chat, Dickey," continued West. "Now, you take your Robinson Crusoe and read somewhere else
for a while, like a nice boy."

Sproule grew red-faced, and turned to West angrily.

"Don't you see I'm studying? If you and March want to talk, why, either go somewhere else,
or talk here."

"But our talk is private, Dickey, and not intended for little boys' ears. You know the saying
about little pitchers, Dickey?"

"Well, I'm not going out, so you can talk or not as you like."

"Oh, yes, you are going out, Dickey. Politeness requires it, and I shall see that you maintain
that delightful courteousness for which you are noted. Now, Dickey!" West indicated the door
with a nod and a smile. Sproule bent his head over his book and growled a response that sounded
anything but polite. Then West, still smiling, seized the unobliging youth by the shoulders,
pinioning his arms to his sides, and pushed him away from the table and toward the door. Joel
rescued the lamp at a critical moment, the chairs went over on to the floor, and a minute later
Sproule was on the farther side of the bolted door, and West was adjusting his rumpled attire.

"I'll report you for this, Outfield West!" howled Sproule through the door, in a passion of
resentment.

"Report away," answered West mockingly.

"And if I miss my Latin I'll tell why, too!"

"Well, you'll miss it all right enough, unless you've changed mightily. But, here, I'll shy
your book through the transom."

This was done, and the sound of ascending feet on the stairway reaching Sproule's ears at that
moment, he grabbed his book and took himself off, muttering vengeance.

"Have you looked?" asked West.

"Yes; it's not there. But there are no others missing. Who could have taken it?"

"Any one, my boy; Bartlett Cloud, for preference. Your door is unlocked, he comes in when he
knows you are out, looks on the table, sees nothing there that will serve, goes to the bureau,
opens the top drawer, and finds a pile of letters. He takes the first one, which is, of course,
the last received, and sneaks out. Then he climbs into the bell tower at night, cuts the rope
through all but one small strand, and puts your letter on the floor where it will be found
in the morning. Isn't that plain enough?" Joel nodded forlornly. "But cheer up, Joel. Your
Uncle Out will see your innocence established, firmly and beyond all question. And now come
on. It's one o'clock, and you've got to go back to the office, while I've got a class. Come
over to my room at four, Joel, and tell me what happens."

Remsen and the secretary were no longer in the office when Joel returned. Professor Durkee
was standing with his hat in his hand, apparently about to leave.

"March," began the principal, "Mr. Remsen tells us that you were struck at by Bartlett Cloud
on the football field one day at practice. Is that so?" Joel replied affirmatively.

"Does he speak to you, or you to him?"

"No, sir; but then I've never been acquainted with him."

"Do you believe that he could have stolen that letter from your room?"

"I know that he could have done so, sir, but I don't like to think--"

"That he did? Well, possibly he did and possibly he didn't. I shall endeavor to find out. Meanwhile
I must ask you to let this go no further. You will go on as though this conversation had never
occurred. If I find that you are unjustly suspected I will summon you and ask your pardon,
and the guilty one will be punished. Professor Durkee here has pointed out to me that such
conduct is totally foreign to his conception of your character, and has reminded me that your
standing in class has been of the best since the beginning of the term. I agree with him in
all this, but duty in the affair is very plain and I have been performing it, unpleasant as
it is. You may go now, March; and kindly remember that this affair must be kept quiet,"

Joel turned with a surprised but grateful look toward Professor Durkee, but was met with a
wrathful scowl. Joel hurried to his recitation, and later, before West's fireplace, the friends
discussed the unfortunate affair in all its phases, and resolved, with vehemence, to know the
truth sooner or later.

But Joel's cup was not yet filled. When he returned to the dormitory after supper, he found
two missives awaiting him. The first was from Wesley Blair:

"DEAR MARCH" (it read): "Please show up in the morning at Burke's for breakfast with the first
eleven. You are to take the place of Post at L.H.B. It will be necessary for you to report
at the gym at eleven each day for noon signals; please arrange your recitations to this end.
I am writing this because I couldn't see you this afternoon; hope you are all right. Yours,

       "WESLEY BLAIR."

Joel read this with a loudly beating heart and flushing cheeks. It was as unexpected as it
was welcome, that news; he had hoped for an occasional chance to substitute Post or Blair or
Clausen on the first team in some minor game, but to be taken on as a member was more than
he had even thought of since he had found how very far from perfect was his playing. He seized
his cap with the intention of racing across to Hampton and informing West of his luck; then
he remembered the other note. It was from the office, and it was with a sinking heart that
he tore it open and read:

"You are placed upon probation until further notice from the Faculty. The rules and regulations
require that pupils on probation abstain from all sports and keep their rooms in the evenings
except upon permission from the Principal. Respectfully,

     "CURTIS GORDON, Secretary."

CHAPTER XI.

TWO HEROES.

One afternoon a week later Outfield West and Joel March were seated on the ledge where, nearly
two months before, they had begun their friendship. The sun beat warmly down and the hill at
their backs kept off the east wind. Below them the river was brightly blue, and a skiff dipping
its way up stream caught the sunlight on sail and hull until, as it danced from sight around
the headland, it looked like a white gull hovering over the water. Above, on the campus, the
football field was noisy with voices and the pipe of the referee's whistle; and farther up
the river at the boathouse moving figures showed that some of the boys were about to take advantage
of the pleasant afternoon.

"Some one's going rowing," observed Outfield. "Can you row, Joel?"

"I guess so; I never tried." West laughed.

"Then I guess you can't. I've tried. It's like trying to write with both hands. While you're
looking after one the other has fits and runs all over the paper. If you pull with the left
oar the right oar goes up in the air or tries to throw you out of the boat by getting caught
in the water. Paddling suits me better. Say, you'll see a bully race next spring when we meet
Eustace. Last spring they walked away from us. But the crew is to have a new boat next year.
Look! those two fellows row well, don't they? Remsen says a chap can never learn to row unless
he has been born near the water. That lets me out. In Iowa we haven't any water nearer than
the Mississippi--except the Red Cedar, and that doesn't count. By the way, Joel, what did Remsen
say to you last night about playing again?"

"He said to keep in condition, so that in case I got off probation I could go right back to
work. He says he'll do all he can to help me, and I know he will. But it won't do any good.
'Wheels' won't let me play until he's found out who did that trick. It's bad enough, Out, to
be blamed for the thing when I didn't do it, but to lose the football team like this is a hundred
times worse. I almost wish I had cut that old rope!" continued Joel savagely; "then I'd at
least have the satisfaction of knowing that I was only getting what I deserved." West looked
properly sympathetic.

"It's a beastly shame, that's what I think. What's the good of 'believing you innocent,' as
'Wheels' says, if he goes ahead and punishes you for the affair? What? Why, there isn't any,
of course! If it was me I'd cut the pesky rope every chance I got until they let up on me!"
Joel smiled despite his ill humor.

"And I've lost half my interest in lessons, Out. I try not to, but I can't help it. I guess
my chance at the scholarship is gone higher than a kite."

"Oh, hang the scholarship!" exclaimed West. "But there's the St. Eustace game in three weeks.
If you don't play in that, Joel, I'll go to 'Wheels' and tell him what I think about it!"

"It's awfully rough on a fellow, Out, but Professor Wheeler is only doing what is right, I
suppose. He can't let the thing go unnoticed, you see, and as long as I can't prove my innocence
I guess he's right to hold me to blame for it."

"Tommyrot!" answered West explosively. "The faculty's just trying to have us beaten! Why--Say,
don't tell a soul, Joel, but Blair's worried half crazy. They had him up yesterday, and 'Wheels'
told him that if he didn't get better marks from now on he couldn't play. What do you think
of that? They're not decent about it. They're trying to put us all on probation. Why, how do
I know but what they'll put me on?"

Outfield hit his shoe violently with the driver he held until it hurt him. For although Joel
was debarred from playing golf there was nothing to keep him from watching West play, and this
afternoon the two had been half over the course together, West explaining the game, and Joel
listening intently, and all the while longing to take a club in hand and have a whack at the
ball himself.

"That's bad," answered Joel thoughtfully. "It would be all up with us if Blair shouldn't play."

"And that's just what's going to happen if 'Wheels' keeps up his present game," responded Outfield.
"Who are those chaps in that shell, Joel? One looks like Cloud, the fellow in front." Joel
watched the approaching craft for a moment.

"It is Cloud," he answered. "And that looks like Clausen with him. Why isn't he practicing,
I wonder?"

"Haven't you heard? He was dropped from the team yesterday. Wills has his place. Post says,
by the way, that he's sorry you're in such a fix, but he's mighty glad to get back on the first.
He's an awfully decent chap, is Post. Did you see that thing he has in this month's Hilltonian
about Cooke? Says the Fac's going to establish a class in bakery and put Cooke in as teacher
because he's such a fine loafer! Say, what's the matter down there?"

The shell containing Cloud and Clausen had reached a point almost opposite to where West and
Joel were perched, and as the latter looked toward it at West's exclamation he saw Cloud throw
aside his oars and stand upright in the boat. Clausen had turned and was looking at his friend,
but still held his oars.

"By Jove, Joel, she's sinking!" cried Outfield. "Look! Why doesn't Clausen get out? There goes
Cloud over. I wonder if Clausen can swim? swim? Come on!"

And half tumbling, half climbing, West sped down the bank on to the tiny strip of rocks and
gravel that lay along the water. Joel followed. Cloud now was in the water at a little distance
from the shell, which had settled to the gunwales. Clausen, plainly in a state of terror, was
kneeling in the sinking boat and crying to the other lad for help. The next moment he was in
the water, and his shouts reached the two lads on the beach. Cloud swam toward him, but before
he could reach him Clausen had gone from sight.

"What shall we do?" cried West. "He's drowning! Can you swim?" For Joel had already divested
himself of his coat and vest, and was cutting the lacings of his shoes. West hesitated an instant
only, then followed suit.

"Yes." Off went the last shoe, and Joel ran into the water. West, pale of face, but with a
determined look in his blue eyes, followed a moment later, a yard or two behind, and the two
set out with desperate strokes to reach the scene of the disaster. As he had taken the water
Joel had cast a hurried glance toward the spot where Clausen had sunk, and had seen nothing
of that youth; only Cloud was in sight, and he seemed to be swimming hurriedly toward shore.

Joel went at the task hand over hand and heard behind him West, laboring greatly at his swimming.
Presently Joel heard his name cried in an exhausted voice.

"I--can't make--it--Joel!" shouted West. "I'll--have to--turn--back."

"All right," Joel called. "Go up to the field and send some one for help." Then he turned his
attention again to his strokes, and raising his head once, saw an open river before him with
nothing in sight between him and the opposite bank save, farther down stream, a floating oar.
He had made some allowance for the current, and when in another moment he had reached what
seemed to him to be near the scene of the catastrophe, yet a little farther down stream, he
trod water and looked about. Under the bluff to the right Cloud was crawling from the river.
West was gone from sight. About him ran the stream, and save for its noise no sound came to
him, and nothing rewarded his eager, searching gaze save a branch that floated slowly by. With
despair at his heart, he threw up his arms and sank with wide-open eyes, peering about him
in the hazy depths. Above him the surface water bubbled and eddied; below him was darkness;
around him was only green twilight. For a moment he tarried there, and then arose to the surface
and dashed the water from his eyes and face. And suddenly, some thirty feet away, an arm clad
in a white sweater sleeve came slowly into sight.

With a frantic leap through the water Joel sped toward it. A bare head followed the upstretched
arm; two wild, terror-stricken eyes opened and looked despairingly at the peaceful blue heavens;
the white lips moved, but no sound came from them. And then, just as the eyes closed and just
as the body began to sink, as slowly as it had arisen, and for the last time, Joel reached it.

There was no time left in which to pause and select a hold of the drowning boy, and Joel caught
savagely at his arm and struck toward the bank, and the inert body came to the surface like
a water-logged plank.

"Clausen!" shouted Joel. "Clausen! Can you hear? Brace up! Strike out with your right hand,
and don't grab me! Do you hear?"

But there was no answer. Clausen was like stone in the water. Joel cast a despairing glance
toward the bluff. Then his eyes brightened, for there sliding down the bank he saw a crowd
of boys, and as he looked another on the bluff threw down a coil of new rope that shone in
the afternoon sunlight as it fell and was seized by some one in the throng below.

Nerved afresh, Joel took a firm grasp on Clausen's elbow and struck out manfully for shore.
It was hard going, and when a bare dozen long strokes had been made his burden so dragged him
down that he was obliged to stop, and, floundering desperately to keep the white face above
water, take a fresh store of breath into his aching lungs. Then drawing the other boy to him
so that his weight fell on his back, he brought one limp arm about his shoulder, and holding
it there with his left hand started swimming once more. A dozen more strokes were accomplished
slowly, painfully, and then, as encouraging shouts came from shore, he felt the body above
him stir into life, heard a low cry of terror in his ear, and then--they were sinking together,
Clausen and he, struggling there beneath the surface! Clausen had his arm about Joel's neck
and was pulling him down--down! And just as his lungs seemed upon the point of bursting the
grasp relaxed around his neck, the body began to sink and Joel to rise!

With a deafening noise as of rushing water in his ears, Joel reached, caught a handful of cloth,
and struggled, half drowned himself, to the surface. And then some one caught him by the chin--and
he knew no more until he awoke as from a bad dream to find himself lying in the sun on the
narrow beach, while several faces looked down into his.

"Did you get him?" he asked weakly.

"Yep," answered Outfield West, with something that sounded like a sob in his voice. "He's over
there. He's all right. Don't get up," he continued, as Joel tried to move. "Stay where you
are. The fellows are bringing a boat, and we'll take you both back in it."

"All right," answered Joel. "But I guess I'll just look around a bit." And he sat up. At a
little distance a group among which Joel recognized the broad back of Professor Gibbs were
still working over Clausen. But even as he looked Joel was delighted to see Clausen's legs
move and hear his weak voice speaking to the professor. Then the boat was rowed in, the occupants
panting with their hurried pull from the boathouse, and Joel clambered aboard, disdaining the
proffered help of West and others, and Clausen was lifted to a seat in the bow.

On the way up river Joel told how it happened, West throwing in an eager word here and there,
and Clausen in a low whisper explaining that the shell had struck on a sunken rock or snag
when passing the island, and had begun to sink almost immediately.

"And Cloud?" asked Professor Gibbs. There was no reply from either Joel or Clausen or-West.
Only one of the rowers answered coldly:

"He's safe. I saw him on the path near the Society Building. He was running toward Warren."
A silence followed. Then--

"You've never learned to swim, Clausen?"

"No, sir."

"But it is the rule that no boy is allowed on the river who can not swim. How is that?"

"I--I said I could, sir."

"Humph! Your lie came near to costing you dear, Clausen."

Then no more was said in the boat until the float was reached, although each occupant was busy
with his thoughts. Clausen was helped, pale and shaking, to his room, and West and Joel, accompanied
by several of their schoolmates, trotted away to the gymnasium, where Joel was put through
an invigorating bath and a subsequent rubbing that left him none the worse for his adventure.
The story had to be told over and over to each new group that came in after practice, and finally
the two friends escaped to West's room, where they discussed the affair from the view-point
of participants.

"When I got back to the bluff with the other fellows you weren't to be seen, Joel," West was
saying, "and I thought it was all up with poor old Joel March."

"That's just what I thought a bit later," responded Joel, "when that fellow had me round the
neck and was trying to show me the bottom of the river."

"And then, when they brought you in, Whipple and Christie, and you were all white and--and
ghastly like, you know"--Outfield West whistled long and expressively--"then I thought you
were a goner."

Joel nodded. "And Cloud?" he asked presently.

"Cloud has settled himself," responded West. "When he thought Clausen was drowning he just
cut and ran--I mean swam--to shore. The fellows are madder than hornets. As Whipple said, you
can't insist on a fellow saving another fellow from drowning, but you can insist on his not
running away. They're planning to show Cloud what they think of him, somehow. They wouldn't
talk about it while I was around. I wonder why?" Outfield stopped suddenly and frowned perplexedly.
"Why, a month or six weeks ago I would have been one of the first they would have asked to
help! I'm afraid it's associating with you, Joel. You're corrupting me! Say, didn't I make
a mess of it this afternoon? I got about ten yards off the beach and just had to give up and
pull back--and pull hard. Blessed if I didn't begin to wonder once if I'd make it! The fact
is, Joel, I'm an awful dab at swimming. And I ought to be punched for letting you go out there
all alone."

"Nonsense, Out! You couldn't help getting tired, especially if you aren't much of a swimmer.
And now you speak of it I remember you saying once that you couldn't--" Joel stopped short
and looked at West in wondering amazement. And West grew red and his eyes sought the floor,
and for almost a minute there was silence in the room. Then Joel arose and stood over the other
lad with shining eyes.

"Out," he muttered huskily, "you're a brick!"

West made no reply, but his feet shuffled nervously on the hearth.

"To think of you starting out there after me! Why, you're the--the hero, Out; not me at all!"

"Oh, shut up!" muttered West.

"I'll not! I'll tell every one in school!" cried Joel. "I'll--"

"If you do, Joel March, I'll thrash you!" cried West.

"You can't!--you can't, Out!" Then he paused and laid a hand affectionately on the other's
shoulder as he asked softly:

"And it's really so, Out? You can't--" West shook his head.

"I'm afraid it's so, Joel," he answered apologetically. "You see out in Iowa there isn't much
chance for a chap to learn, and--and so before this afternoon, Joel, I never swam a stroke
in my life."

CHAPTER XII.

THE PROBATION OF BLAIR.

Wallace Clausen's narrow escape from death and Joel's heroic rescue were nine-day wonders in
the little world of the academy and village. In every room that night the incident was discussed
from A to Z: Clausen's foolhardiness, March's grit and courage, West's coolness, Cloud's cowardice.
And next morning at chapel when Joel, fearing to be late, hurried in and down the side aisle
to his seat, his appearance was the signal for such an enthusiastic outburst of cheers and
acclamations that he stopped, looked about in bewilderment, and then slipped with crimson cheeks
into his seat, the very uncomfortable cynosure of all eyes.

Older boys, who were supposed to know, stoutly averred that such a desecration of the sacred
solitude of chapel had never before been heard of, and "Peg-Leg," long since recovered from
his contact with the bell rope, shook his gray head doubtfully, and joined his feeble tones
with the cheers of the others. And then Professor Wheeler made his voice heard, and commanded
silence very sternly, yet with a lurking smile, and silence was almost secured when, just as
the door was being closed, Outfield West slipped through, smiling, his handsome face flushed
from his tear across the yard. And again the applause burst forth, scarcely less great in volume
or enthusiasm, and West literally bolted back to the door, found it closed, was met with a
grinning shake of the head from Duffy, looked wildly about for an avenue of escape, and finding
none, slunk to his seat at Joel's side, while the boys joined laughter at his plight to their
cheers for his courage.

"You promised not to tell!" hissed West with blazing cheek.

"I didn't, Out; not a word," whispered Joel.

Many eyes were still turned toward the door, but their owners were doomed to disappointment,
for Bartlett Cloud failed to appear at chapel that morning, preferring to accept the penalty
of absence rather than face his fellow-pupils assembled there in a body. But he did not escape
public degradation; for, although he waited until the last moment to go to breakfast, he found
the hall filled, and so passed to his seat amid a storm of hisses that plainly told the contempt
in which his schoolmates held him. And then, as though scorning to remain in his presence,
the place emptied as though by magic, and he was left with burning cheeks to eat his breakfast
in solitude.

Joel and Outfield were publicly thanked and commended by the principal, and every master had
a handshake and a kind and earnest word for them. The boys learned that Clausen had taken a
severe cold from his immersion in the icy water, and had gone to the infirmary. Thither they
went and made inquiry. He would be up in a day or two, said Mrs. Creelman; but they could not
see him, since Professor Gibbs had charged that the patient was not to be disturbed. And so,
leaving word for him when he should awake, Joel and West took themselves away, relieved at
not having to receive any more thanks just then.

But three days later Clausen left the infirmary fully recovered, and Joel came face to face
with him on the steps of Academy Building. A number of fellows on their way to recitations
stopped and watched the meeting. Clausen colored painfully, appeared to hesitate for a moment,
and then went to Joel and held out his hand, which was taken and gripped warmly.

"March, it's hard work thanking a fellow for saving your life, and--I don't know how to do
it very well. But I guess you'll understand that--that--Oh, hang it, March! you know what I'd
like to say. I'm more grateful than I could tell you--ever. We haven't been friends, but it
was my fault, I know, and if you'll let me, I'd like to be--to know you better."

"You're more than welcome, Clausen, for what I did. I'm awfully glad West and I happened to
be on hand. But there wasn't anything that you or any fellow couldn't have done just as well,
or better, because I came plaguey near making a mess of it. Anyhow, it's well through with.
As for being friends, I'll be very glad to be, Clausen. And if you don't mind climbing stairs,
and have a chance, come up and see me this evening. Will you?"

"Yes, thanks. Er--well, to-night, then." And Clausen strode off.

After supper West and Clausen came up to Joel's room, and the four boys sat and discussed all
the topics known to school. Richard Sproule was at his best, and strove to do his share of
the entertaining, succeeding quite beyond Joel's expectations. When the conversation drew around
to the subject of the upsetting on the river, Clausen seemed willing enough to tell his own
experiences, but became silent when Cloud's name was mentioned.

"I've changed my room, and haven't seen Cloud since to speak to," he said. And so Cloud's name
was omitted from discussion.

"I'm sorry," said Clausen, "that I made such a dunce of myself when you were trying to get
me out. I don't believe I knew what I was doing. I don't remember it at all."

"I'm sure you didn't," answered Joel. "I guess a fellow just naturally wouldn't, you know.
But I was glad when you let go!"

"Yes, you must have been. The fellows all say you were terribly plucky to keep at it the way
you did. When they got you it was all they could do to make you let go of me, they say."

"The queerest thing," said West, with a laugh, "was to see Post standing on shore and trying
to throw a line to you all. It never came within twenty yards of you, but he kept on shouting:
'Catch hold--catch hold, can't you? Why don't you catch hold, you stupid apes?'"

"And some one told me," said Sproule, "that Whipple took his shoes, sweater, and breeches off,
and swam out there with his nose-guard on."

"Used it for a life-preserver," suggested West.--"Did you get lectured, Clausen?"

"Yes, he gave it to me hard; but he's a nice old duffer, after all. Said I had had pretty near
punishment enough. But I've got to keep in bounds all term, and can't go on the river again
until I learn how to swim."

"Shouldn't think you'd want to," answered Sproule.

"Are you still on probation, March?" asked Clausen.

"Yes, and it doesn't look as though I'd ever get off. If I could find out who cut that rope
I'd--I'd--"

"Well, I must be going back," exclaimed Clausen hurriedly. "I wish, March, you'd come and see
me some time. My room's 16 Warren. I'm in with a junior by the name of Bowler. Know him?"

Joel didn't know the junior, but promised to call, and West and Clausen said good-night and
stumbled down the stairway together.

The next morning Joel dashed out from his history recitation plump into Stephen Remsen, who
was on his way to the office.

"Well, March, congratulations! I'm just back from a trip home and was going to look you up
this afternoon and shake hands with you. I'll do it now. You're a modest-enough-looking hero,
March."

"I don't feel like a hero, either," laughed Joel in an endeavor to change the subject. "I'm
just out from Greek history, and if I could tell Mr. Oman what I think--"

"Yes? But tell me, how did you manage--But we'll talk about that some other time. You're feeling
all right after the wetting, are you?" And as Joel answered yes, he continued: "Do you think
you could go to work again on the team if I could manage to get you off probation?"

"Try me!" cried Joel. "Do you think they'll let up on me?"

"I'm almost certain of it. I'm on my way now to see Professor Wheeler, and I'll ask him about
you. I have scarcely any doubt but that, after your conduct the other day, he will consent
to reinstate you, March, if I ask him. And I shall be mighty glad to do so. To tell the truth,
I'm worried pretty badly about--well, never mind. Never cross a river until you come to it."

"But, Mr. Remsen, sir," said Joel, "do you mean that he will let me play just because--just
on account of what happened the other day?"

"On account of that and because your general conduct has been of the best; and also, because
they have all along believed you innocent of the charge, March. You know I told you that when
Cloud and Clausen were examined each swore that the other had not left the room that evening,
and accounted for each other's every moment all that day. But, nevertheless, I am positive
that Professor Wheeler took little stock in their testimony. And as for Professor Durkee, why,
he pooh-pooed the whole thing. You seem to have made a conquest of Professor Durkee, March."

"He was very kind," answered Joel thoughtfully. "I don't believe, Mr. Remsen, that I want to
be let off that way," he went on. "I'm no less guilty of cutting the bell rope than I was before
the accident on the river. And until I can prove that I am not guilty, or until they let me
off of their own free wills, I'd rather stay on probation. But I'm very much obliged to you,
Mr. Remsen."

And to this resolve Joel adhered, despite all Remsen's powers of persuasion. And finally that
gentleman continued on his way to the office, looking very worried.

The cause of his worry was known to the whole school two days later when the news was circulated
that Wesley Blair was on probation. And great was the consternation. The football game with
St. Eustace Academy was fast approaching, and there was no time to train a satisfactory substitute
for Blair's position at full-back, even had one been in reach. And Whipple as temporary captain
was well enough, but Whipple as captain during the big game was not to be thought of with equanimity.
The backs had already been weakened by the loss of Cloud, who, despite his poor showing the
first of the season, had it in him to put up a rattling game. And now to lose Blair! What did
the faculty mean? Did it want Hillton to lose? But presently hope took the place of despair
among the pupils. He was going to coach up and pass a special exam the day before the game.
Professor Ludlow was to help him with his modern languages and Remsen with his mathematics,
while Digbee, that confirmed old grind, had offered to coach him on Greek. And so it would
be all right, said the school; you couldn't down Blair; he'd pass when the time came!

But Remsen--and Blair himself, had the truth been known--were not so hopeful. And Remsen went
to West and besought him to induce Joel to allow him (Remsen) to ask for his reinstatement.
And this West very readily did, bringing to bear a whole host of arguments which slid off from
Joel like water from a duck's back. And Remsen groaned and shook his head, but always presented
a smiling, cheerful countenance in public. Those were hard days for the first eleven. Despair
and discouragement threatened on all sides, and, as every thoughtful one expected, there was
such a slump in the practice as kept Remsen and Whipple and poor Blair awake o' nights during
the next week. But Whipple toiled like a Trojan, and Remsen beamed contentment and scattered
tongue-lashings alternately; and Blair, ever armed with a text-book, watched from the side-line
whenever the chance offered.

Joel seldom went to the field those days. The sight of a canvas-clad player made him ready
to weep, and a soaring pigskin sent him wandering away by himself along the river bluff in
no enviable state of mind. But one day he did find his way to the gridiron during practice,
and he and Blair sat side by side, or raced down the field, even with a runner, and received
much consolation in the sort of company that misery loves, and, deep in discussion of the faults
and virtues of the players, forgot their troubles.

"Why, it wouldn't have mattered if you were playing, March," said Blair. "For there's no harm
in telling you now that we were depending on you for half the punting. Remsen thinks you are
fine and so do I. 'With March to take half the punting off your hands,' said he one day, 'you'll
have plenty of time to run the team to the Queen's taste.' Why, we had you running on the track
there, so you would get your lungs filled out and be able to run with the ball as well as kick
it. If you were playing we'd be all right. But as it is, there isn't a player there that can
be depended on to punt twenty yards if pushed. Some of 'em can't even catch the ball if they
happen to see the line breaking! St. Eustace is eight pounds heavier in the line than we are,
and three or four pounds heavier back of it. So what will happen? Why, they'll get the ball
and push us right down the field with a lot of measly mass plays, and we won't be able to kick
and we won't be able to go through their line. And it's dollars to doughnuts that we won't
often get round their ends. It's a hard outlook! Of course, if I can pass--" But there Blair
stopped and sighed dolefully. And Joel echoed the sigh.

The last few days before the event of the term came, and found the first eleven in something
approaching their old form. Blair continued to burn the midnight oil and consume page after
page of Greek and mathematics and German, which, as he confided despondently to Digbee, he
promptly forgot the next moment. Remsen made up a certain amount of lost sleep, and Whipple
gained the confidence of the team. Joel studied hard, and refound his old interest in lessons,
and dreamed nightly of the Goodwin scholarship. West, too, "put in some hard licks," as he
phrased it, and found himself climbing slowly up in the class scale. And so the day of the
game came round.

The night preceding it two things of interest happened: the eleven and substitutes assembled
in the gymnasium and listened to a talk by Remsen, which was designed less for instruction
than to take the boys' mind off the morrow's game; and Wesley Blair took his examination in
the four neglected studies, and made very hard work of it, and finally crawled off to a sleepless
night, leaving the professors to make their decision alone.

And as the chapel bell began to ring on Thanksgiving Day morning, Digbee entered Blair's room,
and finding that youth in a deep slumber, sighed, wrote a few words on a sheet of paper, placed
this in plain sight upon the table, and tiptoed noiselessly out.

And the message read:

"We failed on the Greek. I'm sorrier than I can tell you.--Digbee."

CHAPTER XIII

THE GAME WITH ST. EUSTACE.

There is a tradition at Hillton, almost as firmly inwrought as that which credits Professor
Durkee with wearing a wig, to the effect that Thanksgiving Day is always rainy. To-day proved
an exception to the rule. The sun shone quite warmly and scarce a cloud was to be seen. At
two o'clock the grand stand was filled, and late arrivals had perforce to find accommodations
on the grass along the side-lines. Some fifty lads had accompanied their team from St. Eustace,
and the portion of the stand where they sat was blue from top to bottom. But the crimson of
Hillton fluttered and waved on either side and dotted the field with little spots of vivid
color wherever a Hilltonian youth or ally sat, strolled, or lay.

Yard and village were alike well-nigh deserted; here was the staid professor, the corpulent
grocer, the irrepressible small boy, the important-looking senior, the shouting, careless junior,
the giggling sister, the smiling mother, the patronizing papa, the crimson-bedecked waitress
from the boarding house, the--the--band! Yes, by all means, the band!

There was no chance of overlooking the band. It stood at the upper end of the field and played
and played and played. The band never did things by halves. When it played it played; and,
as Outfield West affirmed, "it played till the cows came home!"

There were plenty of familiar faces here to-day; Professor Gibbs's, old "Peg-Leg" Duffy's,
Professor Durkee's, the village postmaster's, "Old Joe" Pike's, and many, many others. On the
ground just outside the rope sat West and a throng of boys from Hampton House. There were Cooke
and Cartwright and Somers and Digbee--and yes, Wesley Blair, looking very glum and unhappy.
He had donned his football clothes, perhaps from force of habit, and sat there taking little
part in the conversation, but studying attentively the blue-clad youths who were warming-up
on the gridiron. A very stalwart lot of youngsters, those same youths looked to be, and handled
the ball as though to the manner born, and passed and fell and kicked short high punts with
discouraging ease and vim.

But one acquaintance at least was missing. Not Bartlett Cloud, for he sat with his sister and
mother on the seats; not Clausen, for he sat among the substitutes; not Sproule, since he was
present but a moment since. But Joel March was missing. In his room at Masters Hall Joel sat
by the table with a Greek history open before him. I fear he was doing but little studying,
for now and then he arose from his chair, walked impatiently to the window, from which he could
see in the distance the thronged field, bright with life and color, turned impatiently away,
sighed, and so returned again to his book. But surely we can not tarry there with Joel when
Hillton and St. Eustace are about to meet in gallant if bloodless combat on the campus. Let
us leave him to sigh and sulk, and return to the gridiron.

A murmur that rapidly grows to a shout arises from the grand stand, and suddenly every eye
is turned up the river path toward the school. They are coming! A little band of canvas-armored
knights are trotting toward the campus. The shouting grows in volume, and the band changes
its tune to "Hilltonians." Nearer and nearer they come, and then are swinging on to the field,
leaping the rope, and throwing aside sweaters and coats. Big Greer is in the lead, good-natured
and smiling. Then comes Whipple, then Warren, and the others are in a bunch--Post, Christie,
Fenton, Littlefield, Barnard, Turner, Cote, Wills. The St. Eustace contingent gives them a
royal welcome, and West and Cooke and Somers and others take their places in front of the seats
and lead the cheering. The mighty chorus sweeps across the campus and causes more than one
player's heart to swell within him.

"S-E-A, S-E-A, S-E-A, Saint Eustace!" What the cheer lacks in volume is atoned for by good
will, and a clapping of hands from the hostile seats attests admiration. Hillton is warming
for the fray. Greer and Whipple are practicing snapping-back, the latter passing the ball to
Warren, who seizes it and runs a few steps to a new position, where the play is repeated. The
guards and tackles are throwing themselves on to the ground and clutching rolling footballs
in a way that draws a shudder of alarm from the feminine observer. Stephen Remsen is talking
with the ends very earnestly under the goal posts, and Post and Wills are aiming balls at the
goal with, it must be acknowledged, small success.

Then a whistle blows, the two teams congregate in the center of the field, the opposing captains
flip a coin, the referee, a Yates College man, utters a few words of warning, and the teams
separate, St. Eustace taking the ball and the home team choosing the northern goal. Then the
cheering lessens. St. Eustace spreads out; Cantrell, their center, places the ball; the referee's
whistle sounds, the pigskin soars aloft, and the game is on.

In charity toward Hillton let us pass over the first half as soon as may be. Suffice to tell
that the wearers of the crimson fought their best; that Whipple ran the team as well as even
Remsen could desire; that Post made a startling run of forty yards, had only the St. Eustace
full-back between him and the goal--and then ran plump into that full-back's arms; that Greer
and Barnard and Littlefield stood like a stone wall--and went down like one; that Wills kicked,
and Post kicked, and Warren kicked, and none of them accomplished aught save to wring groans
from the souls of all who looked on. In short, it was St. Eustace's half from kick-off to call
of time, and all because Hillton had never a youth behind the line to kick out of danger or
gain them a yard. For St. Eustace was heavier in the line than Hillton and heavier back of
it, and with the ball once in her possession St. Eustace had only to hammer away at center,
guard, or tackle with "guards back" or "tandem," to score eventually. And that is what she
did. And yet four times did Hillton hold St. Eustace literally on her goal-line and take the
ball. And each time by hook or crook, by a short, weak punt or a clever, dashing run around
end, did Hillton win back a portion of her lost territory, only to lose it again at the second
or third attempt to advance the ball.

The halves were twenty-five minutes long, and in that first twenty-five minutes St. Eustace
scored but once, though near it thrice that many times. Allen, St. Eustace's right half-back,
had plunged over the line for a touch-down at the end of fifteen minutes of play and Terrill
had missed an easy goal. Then the grand stand was silent save for one small patch, whereon
blue flags went crazy and swirled and leaped and danced up and down as though possessed of
life. And over the field sped, sharp and triumphant, the St. Eustace cheer. And the score stood:
St. Eustace 5, Hillton O.

The first half ended with the leather but ten yards from the north goal, and a great murmuring
sigh of relief went up from the seats and from along the side-lines when the whistle sounded.
Then the Hillton players, pale, dirty, half defeated, trotted lamely off the field and around
the corner of the stand to the little weather-beaten shed which served for dressing room. And
the blue-clad team trotted joyfully down to their stage, and there, behind the canvas protections
were rubbed down and plastered up, and slapped on the back by their delighted coach and trainer.

In the Hillton quarters life was less cheerful during the ten minutes of intermission. After
the fellows had rubbed and redressed, Remsen talked for a minute or two. There was no scolding,
and no signs of either disappointment or discouragement. But he cautioned the team against
carelessness, predicted a tied score at the end of fifteen minutes, and called for three-times-three
for Hillton, which was given with reviving enthusiasm. A moment later the team trotted back
to the field.

     "Touch her down,
      Touch her down,
      Touch her down again!
      H-I-double-L-T-O-N!"

chanted the wearers of the crimson; and--"St. Eustace! St. Eustace! St. Eustace!" shouted the
visitors as they waved their bright blue banners in air. The whistle piped merrily, the ball
took its flight, and it was now or never for old Hillton!

Stephen Remsen joined the string of substitutes and found a seat on the big gray blanket which
held Browne and Clausen. From there he followed the progress of the game.

Outwardly he was as happy and contented, as cool and disinterested, as one of the goal posts.
Inwardly he was railing against the fate that had deprived Hillton of both the players who,
had they been in the team, could have saved the crimson from defeat. Wesley Blair joined him,
and with scarce a word they watched St. Eustace revert to her previous tactics, and tear great
gaping holes in the Hillton line, holes often large enough to admit of a coach and four, and
more than large enough to allow Allen or Jansen to go tearing, galloping through, with the
ball safe clutched, for three, five? or even a dozen yards!

No line can long stand such treatment, and, while the one-hundred-and-fifty-pound Greer still
held out, Barnard, the big right-guard, was already showing signs of distress. St. Eustace's
next play was a small wedge on tackle, and although Barnard threw himself with all his remaining
strength into the breach he was tossed aside like a bag of feathers and through went the right
and left half-backs, followed by full with the ball, and pushed onward by left-end and quarter.
When down was called the ball was eight yards nearer Hillton's goal, and Barnard lay still
on the ground.

Whipple held up his hand. Thistelweight--a youth of some one hundred and forty pounds--struggled
agitatedly with his sweater and bounded into the field, and Barnard, white and weak, was helped
limping off. For awhile St. Eustace fought shy of right-guard, and then again the weight of
all the backs was suddenly massed at that point, and, though a yard resulted, the crimson wearers
found cause for joy, and a ringing cheer swept over the field. But Littlefield at left-guard
was also weakening, and the tackle beside him was in scarce better plight. And so, with tandem
on tackle, wedge, or guard back, St. Eustace plowed along toward the Hillton goal, and a deep
silence held the field save for the squad of blue-decked cheerers on the seats.

Remsen looked at his watch. "Eighteen minutes to play," he announced quietly. Blair nodded.
He made no attempt to disguise his dejection. Clausen heard, and suddenly turned toward the
coach. He was pale, and Remsen wondered at his excitement.

"Can't we tie them, sir?" he asked breathlessly.

"I'm afraid not. And even if we could they'd break loose." Clausen paid no heed to the sorry joke.

"But they'll win, sir! Isn't there anything to do?" Remsen stared. Then he smiled. "Failing
an extraordinary piece of luck, my lad, we're already beaten. Our line can't hold them; we
have no one to kick, even should we get a chance, and--"

"But if Blair was there, sir, or March?"

"It might make a difference. Hello! there they go through tackle-guard hole again. Lord, six
yards if an inch!" Blair groaned and rolled over in despair. The whistle sounded, and as the
pile of writhing youths dissolved it was seen that Tom Warren was hurt. Out trotted the rubber.
The players sank exhausted to the ground and lay stretched upon the sward, puffing and panting.
Two minutes went by. Then Whipple called for Clausen.

"Clausen," cried Remsen turning, "go in and--" But Clausen was not to be seen. "Clausen!" cried
a dozen voices. There was no response, and Browne was taken on instead, and Warren, with an
ankle that failed him at every step, struggled off the field.

"What's become of Clausen?" asked Remsen. But no one could answer.

The play went on. With the ball on Hillton's twenty-yard line a fumble gave it to the home
team, and on the first down Browne gathered it in his arms and tried to skirt St. Eustace's
left end, but was thrown with a loss of a yard. A similar play with Wills as the runner was
tried around the other end and netted a yard and a half. It was the third down and four and
a half yards to gain. Back went the ball to Post and he kicked. But it was a poor performance,
that kick, and only drove the pigskin down the side-line to the forty-yard line, where it bounded
in touch. But it delayed the evil moment of another score for St. Eustace, and the seats cheered.

"Twelve minutes left," announced Remsen.

Relentless as fate the St. Eustace forwards surged on toward the opposing goal. Two yards,
three yards, one yard, five yards, half a yard, always a gain, never a check, until once more
the leather reposed just in front of the Hillton goal and midway between the ten and fifteen-yard
line. Then a plunge through the tackle-guard hole, followed by a tandem on guard, and another
five yards was passed. The cheering from the wearers of the blue was now frantic and continuous.
There was two years of defeat to make up for, and victory was hovering over the azure banner!

"Eight minutes to play," said Remsen. "If we can only keep them from scoring again!" Suddenly
there was a murmur from the seats, then a cry of surprise from Remsen's side, then a shout
of exultation that gathered and grew as it traveled along the line. And around the corner of
the stand came a youth who strove to lace his torn and tattered canvas jacket as he ran. Remsen
leaped to his feet, dropping his pipe unnoticed, and hastened toward him. They met and for
a moment conversed in whispers.

"It's Joel March!" cried Blair. "He's going to play!" exclaimed a dozen voices. "But he can't,"
cried a dozen others. "He's on probation." "He is! He is! He's going on! He's going to play!"

And so he was. Whipple had already seen him, and had sunk to the ground nursing an ankle which
had suddenly gone lame. "Time!" he cried, and obedient to his demand the referee's whistle
piped. "Give your place to Post, Wills!" he commanded, and then, limping to Joel, he led that
youth apart.

"Can you play?" he asked hoarsely.

"Yes."

"Then get in there at full-back, and, O March, kick us out of this bloody place! I'll give
you the ball on the next down. Kick it for all you're worth." He gave Joel a shove. "All right,
Mr. Referee!" The whistle sounded.

Forward charged St. Eustace. But, gathering encouragement from the knowledge that back of them
stood a full who would put them out of danger if the opportunity were given him, Hillton stood
fast.

"Second down, five yards to gain!" cried the umpire.

Again the wearers of bedraggled blue stockings surged and broke against the line. And again
there was no gain. Back of Hillton, less than eight yards away, lay the goal-line. Desperation
lends strength. Huddled together, shoulder to shoulder, the backs bracing from behind, the
crimson-clad youths awaited the next charge. It was "the thin red line" again. Then back went
the ball, there was a moment of grinding canvas, of muttered words and smothered gasps, of
swaying, clutching, falling, and "Down!" was heard.

"Hillton's ball; first down," announced the umpire.

What a cheer went up from the grand stand! What joy was in Remsen's heart as the St. Eustace
full-back went trotting up the field and Greer stooped over the ball! Then came a pause, a
silence. Every one knew what to look for. Squarely between the posts and directly under the
cross-bar stood Joel March, his left foot on the goal-line. Back came the ball, straight and
low into Joel's outstretched hands. The line blocked long and hard. One step forward, an easy,
long swing of his right leg, and Joel sent the ball sailing a yard over the upstretched hands
of the opposing line and far and high down the field.

There it was gathered into the arms of the St. Eustace full-back, but ere that player had put
his foot twice to ground he was thrown, and the teams lined up on St. Eustace's forty-five-yard
line. Then it was that the god of battle befriended Hillton; for on the next play St. Eustace
made her first disastrous fumble, and Christie, Hillton's right end, darted through, seized
the rolling spheroid, and started down the field. Five, ten, fifteen, twenty yards he sped,
the St. Eustace backs trailing after him.

"A touch-down!" cried Remsen. "No, the half's gaining! He's got him! No, missed him, by Jove!
A-ah!"

The run was over, and Christie lay panting on the ground, with the triumphant St. Eustace half-back
sitting serenely on his head; for, although the latter had missed his tackle, Christie had
slipped in avoiding him. But cheers for Christie and Hillton filled the afternoon air, and
the two elevens lined up near St. Eustace's twenty-five-yard line, yet well over toward the
side of the field.

"If it was only in the middle of the field," groaned Blair, "a place-kick would tie the score.
How much time is there, Mr. Remsen?"

"About two and a half minutes," answered Remsen. "But I've an idea that, middle or no middle,
Whipple's going to signal a kick."

"It can't be done," answered Blair with conviction, "drop or placement! March is only fair
at goals, and at that angle--"

"What's the matter with the man?" cried Remsen; "what's he up to?" For the Hillton backs were
clustered well up behind the line as though for a wedge attack. And as Remsen wondered, the
ball was put in play, the line blocked sharply, and Christie left his place at right end, and
skirting behind the backs received the ball by a double pass via right half-back and ran for
the middle of the field, the backs helping the end and tackle to hold the St. Eustace right
line. Christie gained the center of the gridiron and advanced a yard toward the opponent's
goal ere the St. Eustace right half-back reached him. Then there was a quick line-up, and Joel
took up his position for a kick.

"Well done, Whipple!" cried Remsen and Blair in a breath.

"But the time!" muttered Remsen, "does he know--"

"One minute to play!" came the ominous announcement.

Then, while a snap of the fingers could have been heard the length of the field, Whipple glanced
deliberately around at the backs, slapped the broad back of the center sharply, seized the
snapped ball, and made a swift, straight pass to Joel. Then through the Hillton line went the
St. Eustace players, breaking down with vigor born of desperation the blocking of their opponents.
With a leap into the air the St. Eustace left-guard bore down straight upon Joel; there was
a concussion, and the latter went violently to earth, but not before his toe had met the rebounding
ball; and the latter, describing a high arc, sailed safely, cleanly over the bar and between
the posts! And then, almost before the ball had touched the ground, the whistle blew shrilly,
and apparent defeat had been turned into what was as good as victory to the triumphant wearers
of the Hillton crimson!

Hillton and St. Eustace had played a tie.

And over the ropes, rushing, leaping, shouting, broke the tide of humanity, crimson flags swirled
over a sea of heads, and pandemonium ruled the campus!

And on the ground where he had fallen lay Joel March.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE GOODWIN SCHOLARSHIP.

"But how did it all happen?" asked Outfield West breathlessly.

He had just entered and was seated on the edge of the bed whereon Joel lay propped up eating
his Thanksgiving dinner from a tray. It was seven o'clock in the evening, and Dickey Sproule
was not yet back. The yard was noisy with the shouts of lads returning from the dining hall,
and an occasional cheer floated up, an echo of the afternoon's event. Joel moved a dish of
pudding away from Outfield's elbow as he answered between mouthfuls of turkey:

"I was up here studying at the table there when I heard some one coming up stairs two steps
at a time. It was Clausen. He threw open the door and cried: 'They're winning, March, they're
winning! Come quick! Remsen says we can tie them if you play. It's all right, March. We'll
go to the office and I'll tell everything. Only come, hurry!' Well, of course I thought first
he was crazy. Then I guessed what was up, because I knew that Eustace had scored--"

"You couldn't have known; you were studying."

"Well, I--I wasn't studying all the time, Out. So up I jumped, and we raced over to the office
and found Professor Wheeler there asleep on the leather couch under the window. 'It was Cloud
and I, sir, that cut the rope!' said Clausen. 'I'm very sorry, sir, and I'll take the punishment
and glad to. But March hadn't anything to do with it, sir; he didn't even know anything about
it, sir!' Professor Wheeler was about half awake, and he thought something terrible was the
matter, and it took the longest time to explain what Clausen was talking about. Then he said
he was glad to learn that I was innocent, and I thanked him, and he started to ask Clausen
a lot of questions. 'But St. Eustace is winning, sir!' I cried. He looked at me in astonishment.
'Indeed, I'm very sorry to hear it,' he said. 'But it isn't too late now, sir,' said Clausen.
'For what?' asked 'Wheels.' 'For me to go on the team,' said I. 'You know, sir, you put me
on probation and I can't play.' 'Oh,' said he, 'but you were put on probation by the faculty,
and the faculty must take you off.' 'But meanwhile Hillton will be beaten!' said Clausen. 'Can't
he play, sir? He can save the day!' Wheels thought a bit. 'What's the score?' he asked. Clausen
told him. 'Yes,' he said at last, 'run and get to work. I'll explain to the faculty. And by
the way, March, remember that a kick into touch is always the safest.'"

"Isn't he a rummy old guy?" exclaimed West. "And then?"

"Then I struck out for the gym, got into my canvas togs somehow or other, and reached the field
just about in time. Luckily I knew the signals. And then after I'd kicked that goal that big
Eustace chap struck me like a locomotive, and I went down on the back of my head; and that's
all except that they brought me up here and Professor Gibbs plastered me up and gave me a lot
of nasty sweet water to take."

"And Clausen?"

"From the little I heard I think Cloud cut the rope and made Clausen promise not to tell. And
he kept his promise until he saw Hillton getting beaten yesterday, and then he couldn't stand
it, and just up and told everything, and saved us a licking."

"Didn't I tell you Cloud did it? Didn't I--" There came a knock on the door and in response
to Joel's invitation Professor Wheeler and Stephen Remsen entered. West leaped off the bed--there
is a rule at Hillton forbidding occupying beds save for sleep--and upset Joel's tea. Professor
Wheeler smiled as he said:

"West, you're rather an uneasy fellow to have in a sick-room. Get something and dry that off
the floor there, please.--Well, March, I understand you got there in the nick of time to-day.
Mr. Remsen says you saved us from defeat."

"Indeed he did, professor; no one else save Blair could have done it to-day. That goal from
the twenty-five-yard line was as pretty a performance as I've ever seen.--How are you feeling,
lad?"

"All right," answered Joel. "I've got a bit of a headache, but I'll be better in the morning."

"Your appetite doesn't seem to have failed you," said the principal.

"No, sir, I was terribly hungry."

"That's a good sign, they say.--West, you may take your seat again." The professor and Stephen
Remsen occupied the two chairs, and West without hesitation sat down again on the bed.

"March, I have learned the truth of that affair. Bartlett Cloud, it appears, cut the bell rope
simply in order to throw suspicion on you. He managed to secure a letter of yours through--hem!--through
your roommate, who, it seems, also bears you a grudge for some real or fancied slight. Clausen,
while a party to the affair, appears to have taken no active part in it, and only remained
silent because threatened with bodily punishment by Cloud. These boys will be dealt with as
they deserve.

"But I wish to say to you that all along it has been the belief of the faculty, the entire
faculty, that you had no hand in the matter, and we are all glad to have our judgments vindicated.
An announcement will be made to-morrow which will set you right again before the school. And
now, in regard to Richard Sproule; do you know of any reason why he should wish you harm?"
"No, sir. We don't get along very well, but--"

"I see. Now, it will be best for you to change either your room or your roommate. Have you
any preference which you do?"

"I should like to change my room, sir. I should like to go in with West. He has a room to himself
in Hampton, and wants to have me join him."

"But do you realize that the rent will be very much greater, March?"

"Yes, sir, but West wants me to pay only what I have paid for this room, sir. He says he'd
have to pay for the whole room if I didn't go in with him, and so it's fair that way. Do you
think it is, sir?"

"What would your father say, West?"

"I've asked him, sir. He says to go ahead and do as I please." The principal smiled as he replied:

"Well, March, then move over to West's room to-morrow. It will be all fair enough. And I shall
be rather glad to have you in Hampton House. Digbee is an example of splendid isolation there;
it will be well to have some one help him maintain the dignity of study amid such a number
of--er--well, say lilies of the field, West; they toil not, if you remember, and neither do
they spin. Don't get up in the morning if your head still hurts, March; we don't want you to
get sick.--Keep a watch on him, West; and, by the way, if he wants more tea, run over to the
dining hall and tell the steward I said he was to have it. Good-night, boys."

"Good-night, sir." Remsen shook hands with Joel.

"March, I hope I shall be able to repay you some day for what you did this afternoon. It meant
more to me, I believe, than it did to even you fellows. I'm going Thursday next. Come and see
me before then if you can. Good-night."

When the door had closed Outfield shouted, "Hurrah!" in three different keys and pirouetted
about the room. "It's all fixed, Joel. Welcome to Hampton, my lad! Welcome to the classic shades
of Donothing Hall! We will live on pickles and comb-honey, and feast like the Romans of old!
We--" He paused. "Say, Joel, I guess Cloud will be expelled, eh?" Joel considered thoughtfully
with a spoonful of rice pudding midway between saucer and mouth. Then he swallowed the delicacy.
"Yes," he replied, "and I'm awful glad of it."

But Joel was mistaken; for Cloud was not to be found the next morning, and the condition of
his room pointed to hasty flight. He had taken alarm and saved himself from the degradation
of public dismissal. And so he passed from Hillton life and was known there no more. Clausen
escaped with a light punishment, for which both Joel and West were heartily glad. "Because
when you get him away from Cloud," said West, "Clausen's not a bad sort, you know."

Richard Sproule was suspended for the balance of the fall term, and was no longer monitor of
his floor. Perhaps the heaviest punishment was the amount of study he was required to do in
order to return after Christmas recess, entailing as it did a total relinquishment of Mayne
Reid, Scott, and Cooper. And when he did return his ways led far from Joel's. Very naturally
that youth had now risen to the position of popular hero, and unapproachable seniors slapped
him warmly on the shoulder--a bit of familiarity Joel was too good-natured to resent--and wide-eyed
little juniors admired him open-mouthed as he passed them. But Joel bore himself modestly withal,
and was in no danger of being spoiled by a state of things that might well have turned the
head of a more experienced lad than he. It is a question if Outfield did not derive more real
pleasure and pride out of Joel's popularity than did Joel himself. Every new evidence of the
liking and admiration in which the latter was held filled Outfield's heart with joy.

At last Joel found time to begin his course in golf, and almost any day the two lads might
have been seen on the links, formidably armed with a confusing assortment of clubs, Outfield
quite happy to be exhibiting the science of his favorite sport, and Joel plowing up the sod
in a way to cause a green-tender, had there been such a person on hand, the most excruciating
pain. But Joel went at golf as he went at everything else, bending all his energies thereto,
and driving thought of all else from his mind, and so soon became, if not an expert, at least
a very acceptable player who won commendation from even West--and where golf was concerned
Outfield was a most unbiased and unsympathetic judge.

One afternoon Whipple and Blair, the latter once more free from probation, played a match with
Joel and West, and were fairly beaten by three holes--a fact due less, it is true, to Joel's
execution with the driver than West's all-around playing. But Joel, nevertheless, derived not
a little encouragement from that result, and bade fair to become almost if not quite as enthusiastic
a golfer as West. At first, in the earlier stages of his initiation, Joel was often discouraged,
whereupon West was wont to repeat the famous reply of the old St. Andrews player to the college
professor, who did not understand why, when he could teach Latin and Greek, he failed so dismally
at golf. "Ay, I ken well ye can teach the Latin and Greek," said the veteran, "but it takes
brains, mon, to play the gowf!" And Joel more than half agreed with him.

Remsen departed a week after Thanksgiving, being accompanied to the train by almost as enthusiastic
a throng as had welcomed him upon his arrival. He had consented to return to Hillton the following
year and coach the eleven once more. "I had expected to make this the last year," he said,
"but now I shall coach, if you will have me, until we win a decisive victory from St. Eustace.
I can't break off my coaching career with a tie game, you see." And Christie occasioned laughter
and applause by replying, "I'm afraid you're putting a premium on defeat, sir, because if we
win next year's game you won't come back." He shook hands cordially with Joel, and said:

"When the election of next year's captain comes off, my boy, it's a pretty sure thing that
you'll have a chance at it. But if you'll take my advice you'll let it alone. I tell you this
because I'm your friend all through. Next fall will be time enough for the honors; this year
should go to hard work without any of the trouble that falls to the lot of captain."

"Thank you, Mr. Remsen," Joel answered. "I hadn't thought of their doing such a thing. I don't
see why they should want me. But if it's offered you may be sure I'll decline. I'd be totally
unfitted for it; and, besides, I haven't got the time!"

And so, when two weeks later the election was held in the gymnasium one evening, Joel did decline,
to the evident regret of all the team, and the honor went to Christie, since both Blair and
Whipple were seniors and would not be in school the next autumn. And Christie made a very manly,
earnest speech, and subsequently called for three times three for Blair, and three times three
for Remsen, and nine times three for Hillton, all of which were given with a will.

As the Christmas recess approached, Joel spent a great deal of valuable time in unnecessary
conjecture as to his chance of winning the Goodwin scholarship, and undoubtedly lessened his
chance of success by worrying. The winners were each year announced in school hall on the last
day of the term. The morning of that day found Outfield West very busy packing a heap of unnecessary
golf clubs and wearing apparel into his trunk and bags, and found Joel seated rather despondently
on the lounge looking on. For West was to spend his vacation with an uncle in Boston, and Joel,
although Outfield had begged him to go along, asserting positively that his uncle would be
proud and happy to see him (Joel), was to spend the recess at school, since he felt he could
not afford the expense of the trip home. West hesitated long over a blue-checked waistcoat
and at length sighed and left it out.

"Isn't it most time to go over?" asked Joel.

"No; don't you be in a hurry. There's a half hour yet. And if you're going to get the Goodwin
you'll get it, and there isn't any use stewing over it," replied West severely. "As for me,
I'm glad I'm not a grind and don't have to bother my head about such tommyrot. Just sit on
the lid of this pesky thing, Joel, will you? I'm afraid that last coat was almost too much for it."

But even suspense comes to an end, and presently Joel found himself seated by West in the crowded
hall, and felt his face going red and pale by turns, and knew that his heart was beating with
unaccustomed violence beneath his shabby vest. Professor Wheeler made his speech--and what
a long one it seemed to many a lad!--and then the fateful list was lifted from the table.

"Senior class scholarships have been awarded as follows," announced the principal. "The Calvin
scholarship to Albert Park Digbee, Waltham, Massachusetts." Joel forgot his unpleasant emotions
while he clapped and applauded. But they soon returned as the list went on. Every announcement
met with uproarous commendation, and boy after boy arose from his seat and more or less awkwardly
bowed his recognition. The principal had almost completed the senior list.

"Ripley scholarships to George Simms Lennox, New York city; John Fiske, Brookville, Mississippi;
Carleton Sharp Eaton, Milton, Massachusetts; William George Woodruff, Portland, Maine. Masters
scholarships to Howard McDonnell, Indianapolis, Indiana; Thomas Grey, Yonkers, New York; Stephen
Lutger Williams, Connellsville, Rhode Island; Barton Hobbs, Farmington, Maine; Walter Haskens
Browne, Denver, Colorado; and Justin Thorp Smith, Chicago, Illinois."

Joel's hands were cold and his feet just wouldn't keep still. The principal leaned down and
took up the upper middle class list. West nudged Joel smartly in the ribs, and whispered excitedly:

"Now! Keep cool, my boy, keep cool!"

Then Joel heard Professor Wheeler's voice reading from the list, and for a moment it seemed
to come from a great distance.

"Upper middle class scholarships have been awarded as follows:" There was a pause while he
found his place. "Goodwin scholarship to Harold Burke Reeves, Saginaw, Michigan."

West subsided in his seat with a dismal groan. Joel did not hear it. It is doubtful if he heard
anything until several minutes later, when the pronouncement of his name awoke him from the
lethargy into which he had fallen.

"Masters scholarships to Joel March, Marchdale, Maine--"

"It's better than nothing, Joel," whispered Outfield. "It's fifty dollars, you know." But Joel
made no reply. What was a Masters to him who had set his heart on the first prize of all? Presently,
when the lists were over, he stole quietly out unnoticed by his chum, and when West returned
to the room he found Joel at the table, head in hands, an open book before him. West closed
the door and walked noiselessly forward in the manner of one in a sick-room, At length he asked
in a voice which strove to be natural and unconcerned:

"What are you doing, Joel?"

The head over the book only bent closer as its owner answered doggedly:

"Studying Greek!"

CHAPTER XV.

THE BOAT RACE.

The balance of that school year was a season of hard study for Joel. It was not in his nature
to remain long despondent over the loss of the Goodwin scholarship, and a week after the winter
term commenced he was as cheerful and light-hearted as ever. But his failure served to spur
him on to renewed endeavors, and as a result he soon found himself at the head of the upper
middle. Rightly or wrongly--and there is much to be said on both sides--he gave up sports almost
entirely. Now and then West persuaded him to an afternoon on the links, but this was infrequent.
The hockey season opened with the first hard ice on the river, and West joined the team that
met and defeated St. Eustace in January. There was one result of his application to study that
Joel had not looked for. Outfield West, perhaps from a mere desire to be companionable, took
to lessons, and, much to his own pretended dismay, began to earn the reputation of a diligent
student.

"You won't talk," growled West, "you won't play chess, you won't eat things. You just drive
a chap to study!" As spring came in the school talk turned to baseball and rowing. For the
former Joel had little desire, but rowing attracted him, and he began to allow himself the
unusual pleasure of an hour away from lessons in the afternoon that he might go down to the
boathouse with West, and there, in a sunny angle of the building, watch the crews at work upon
the stream. Hillton was trying very hard to turn out a winning crew, and Whipple, who was captain
of the first eight, toiled as no captain had toiled before in the history of Hillton aquatics.

The baseball season ended disastrously with a severe drubbing for the Hillton nine at the hands
of St. Eustace on the latter's home ground. The fellows said little, but promised to atone
for it when the boat race came off. This occurred two days before class day, which this year
came on June 22d, and very nearly every pupil traveled down the river to Marshall to witness
it. The day away from school came as a welcome relief after the worry and brain-aching of the
spring examination, and Joel, although he knew for a certainty that he had passed with the
highest marks, was glad to obey Outfield's stern decree and accompany that youth to the scene
of the race.

They went by train and arrived at the little town at noon. After a regal repast of soup and
sandwiches, ice cream and chocolate éclairs, the two set out for the river side. The Hillton
crew had come down the day before with their new shell, and had spent the night at the only
hotel in the village. The race was to be started at three, and West and Joel spent the intervening
time in exploring the river banks for a mile in each direction from the bridge, and in getting
their feet wet and their trousers muddy.

By the hour set for the start the river sides were thronged with spectators, and rival cheers
floated across the sparkling stream from bank to bank. That side of the river whereon St. Eustace
Academy lies hidden behind a hill held the St. Eustace supporters, while upon the other bank
the Hillton lads and their friends congregated. But the long bridge, something more than a
mile below, was common ground, and here the foes mingled and strove to outshout each other.

The river is broad here below Marshall, and forms what is almost a basin, hemmed in on either
side by low wooded bluffs. From where Joel and West, with a crowd of Hillton fellows, stood
midway upon the bridge, the starting point, nearly a mile and a half up stream was plainly
visible, and the finish line was a few rods above them. The rood-loft, which had been maimed
by the Huguenots, was destroyed at the revolution; when the church was also deprived of its celebrated
clock, which told the days of the month, the festivals, and the phases of the moon, and afforded
other astronomical information.

Such gazers as heeded not these mysteries, were amused by a little bronze statue of St. Michael,
who sallied forth at every hour, and announced the progress of time, by the number of strokes
which he inflicted on the Devil with his lance.

It is impossible to convey by words an adequate idea of the lightness, and purity, and boldness
of St. Ouen.

My imperfect description will be assisted by the sketches which I inclose. Of their merits I dare
not speak; but I will warrant their fidelity; The flying buttresses
end in richly crocketed pinnacles, supported by shafts of unusual
height.

The triple tiers of windows seem to have absorbed the solid wall-work of the building. Balustrades
of varied quatrefoils run round the aisles and body; and the centre-tower, which is wholly composed
of open arches and tracery, terminates, like the south-tower of the cathedral, with an octangular
crown of fleurs-de-lys.

The armorial symbol of France, which in itself is a form of great
beauty, was often introduced by the French architects of the middle
ages, amongst the ornaments of their edifices: it pleases the eye
by its grace, and satisfies the mind by its appropriate and natural
locality.

The elegance of the south porch is unrivalled. This portion of the church was always finished with
care: it was the scene of many religious ceremonies, particularly of espousals. Hence they gave
it a degree of magnitude which might appear disproportionate, did
we not recollect that the arch was destined to embower the bride and
the bridal train.

The bold and lofty entrance of this porch is surrounded within by pendant trefoil arches, springing
from carved bosses, and forming an open festoon of tracery.

The vault within is ornamented with pendants, and the portal which it shades is covered with
a profusion of sculpture: the death, entombment, and apotheosis of the Virgin, form the subjects
of the principal groups.

The sculptures, both in design and execution, far surpass any specimens of the corresponding
æra in England. But this porch is now neglected and filled with lumber, and the open tracery is
much injured. I hope, however, it will receive due attention; as the church is at this time
under repair; and the restorations, as far as they go, have been
executed with fidelity and judgment.

The
perspective of the interior [94] is exceedingly impressive: the arches are of great height and fine
proportions. If I must discover a defect, I should say that the lines appear to want substance; the
mouldings of the arches are shallow. The building is all window.
Were it made of cast iron, it could scarcely look less solid.

This effect is particularly increased by the circumstance of the clerestory-gallery opening
into the glazed tracery of the windows behind, the lines of the one
corresponding with those of the other.

To each of the clustered columns of the nave is attached a tabernacle, consisting of a canopy
and pedestal, evidently intended originally to have received the image of a saint. It does
not appear to have been the design of the architect that the pillars
of the choir should have had similar ornaments; but upon one of them,
at about mid-height, serving as a corbel to a truncated column, is
a head of our Saviour, and, on the opposite pillar, one of the Virgin:
the former is of a remarkably fine antique character.

The capitals of the pillars in this part of the church were all gilt, and the spandrils of
the arches painted with angels, now nearly effaced. The high altar is of grey marble, relieved,
by a scarlet curtain behind, the effect of which is simple, singular, and good. Round the choir
is a row of chapels, which are wholly wanting to the nave. The walls of these chapels have
also been covered with fresco paintings; some with figures, others with foliage. The chapels
contain many grave-stones displaying indented outlines of figures
under canopies, and in other respects ornamented; but neglected, and
greatly obliterated, and hastening fast to ruin.

It is curious to see the heads and hands, and, in one instance, the crosier of a prelate, inlaid
with white or grey marble; as if the parts of most importance were
purposely made of the most perishable materials.

I was much interested by observing, that many of these memorials are almost the exact counterparts
of some of our richest English sepulchral brasses, and particularly of the two which are perhaps
unrivalled, at Lynn [95].-- How I wished that you, who so delight in these remains, and to whom
we are indebted for the elucidation of those of Norfolk, had been with
me, while I was trying to trace the resemblance; and particularly
while I pored over the stone in the chapel of Saint Agnes, that commemorates
Alexander Berneval, the master-mason of the building!

According to tradition, it was this same Alexander Berneval who executed
the beautiful circular window in the southern transept.

But being rivalled by his apprentice, who produced a more exquisite specimen of masonry in the
northern transept, he murdered his luckless pupil.

The crime he expiated with his own life; but the monks of the abbey, grateful for his labors, requested
that his body might be entombed in their church; and on the stone that covers his remains, they
caused him to be represented at full length, holding the window in
his hand.

These large circular windows, sometimes known by the name of rose windows, and sometimes of marigold
windows, are a strong characteristic feature of French ecclesiastical architecture. Few among
the cathedrals or the great conventual churches, in this country, are without them. In our own they
are seldom found: in no one of our cathedrals, excepting Exeter only, are they in the western front;
and, though occasionally in the transepts, as at Canterbury, Chichester, Litchfield, Westminster,
Lincoln and York, they are comparatively of small size with little variety of pattern. In
St. Ouen, they are more than commonly beautiful. The northern one, the cause of death to the
poor apprentice, exhibits in its centre the produced pentagon, or combination of triangles
sometimes called the pentalpha.-- The painted glass which fills the
rose windows is gorgeous in its coloring, and gives the most splendid
effect.

The church preserves the whole of its original glazing. Each inter-mullion contains one whole-length
figure, standing upon a diapered ground, good in design, though the artist seems to have avoided the
employment of brilliant hues. The sober light harmonizes with the grey unsullied stone-work, and
gives a most pleasing unity of tint to the receding arches.

Among the pictures, the-best are, the Cardinal of Bologna opening the Holy Gate, instead of the
Pope, in the nave; and Saint Elizabeth stopping the Pestilence, in the choir: two others, in
the Lady-Chapel, by an artist of Rouen, of the name of Deshays, the Miracle of the Loaves, and the
Visitation, are also of considerable merit.-- Deshays was a young man of great promise; but the
hopes which had been entertained of him were disappointed by a premature
death.

A church like this, so ancient, so renowned, and so holy, could not fail to enjoy peculiar privileges.
The abbot had complete jurisdiction, as well temporal as spiritual, over the parish of St.
Ouen; in the Norman parliament he took precedence of all other mitred abbots; by a bull of Pope Alexander
IVth, he was allowed to wear the pontifical ornaments, mitre, ring, gloves, tunic, dalmatic,
and sandals; and, what sounds strange to our Protestant ears, he had the right of preaching
in public, and of causing the conventual bells to be rung whenever
he thought proper.

His monks headed the religious processions of the city; and every new archbishop of the province
was not only consecrated in this church, but slept the evening prior to his installation at
the abbey; whence, on the following day, he was conducted in pomp to the entrance of the cathedral,
by the chapter of St. Ouen, headed by their abbot, who delivered him to the canons, with the following
charge,-- "Ego, Prior Sancti Audoeni, trado vobis Dominum Archiepiscopum Rothomagensem vivum,
quem reddetis nobis mortuum."-- The last sentence was also strictly
fulfilled; the dean and chapter being bound to take the bodies of
the deceased prelates to the church of St. Ouen, and restore them
to the monks with, "Vos tradidistis nobis Dominum Archiepiscopum vivum;
nos reddimus eum vobis mortuum, ita ut crastinâ die reddatis eum nobis."-- The
corpse remained there four and twenty hours, during which the monks
performed the office of the dead with great solemnity.

The canons were then compelled to bear the dead archbishop a second time from the abbey cross
(now demolished) to the abbey of St. Amand [96], where the abbess took the pastoral ring from
off his finger, replacing it by another of plain gold; and thence the bearers proceeded to
the cathedral. These duties could not be very agreeable to portly, short-winded, well-fed dignitaries;
and consequently the worthy canons were often inclined to shrink from the task. In the case of the
funeral of Archbishop d'Aubigny, in 1719, they contented themselves with carrying him at once
to his dormitory; but the prior and monks of St. Ouen instantly sued them before the parliament,
and this tribunal decreed that the ancient service must be performed,
and in default of compliance, the whole of their temporalities were
to be put under sequestration: it is almost needless to add, that
a sentence of excommunication would scarcely have been so effectual
in enforcing the execution of the sentence.

The gardens formerly belonging to the abbey are at this time a pleasant
promenade to the inhabitants of the town: the remains of the monastic
buildings are converted into an Hôtel de Ville, where also the library
and the museum are kept, and the academy hold their sittings.

No remains, however, now exist of the abbatial residence, which was
built by Anthony Bohier, in the beginning of the sixteenth century,
and which, according to the engraving given of it by Pommeraye, must
have been a noble specimen of domestic architecture.

The sovereigns of France always took up their abode in it, during
their visits to Rouen.-- The circular tower called the Tour des Clercs,
mentioned in a former letter, is the only vestige of Norman times.-- The
cloister corresponded with the architecture of the church: the south
side of the quadrangle attached to the northern aisle still exists,
but blocked up and dilapidated, and converted into a sort of cage
for those who are guilty of disturbances during the night.

The church of St. Maclou is unquestionably superior to every other in the city, except the cathedral
and St. Ouen. Its principal ornament are its carved doors, produced during the reign of Henry
IIIrd, by Jean Goujon, a man so eminent as to have been termed the
Corregio of sculpture; but they have been materially injured by repairs
and alterations by unskilful hands.

Within the church, near the west entrance, is a singularly elegant stair-case, in filagree stone-work,
which formerly led to the organ.-- This building was erected in the
year 1512, and chiefly by voluntary contributions, if such can be
called voluntary as were purchased by promises from the archbishop,
first of forty, and then of one hundred, days'indulgences, to all
who would contribute towards the pious labor.-- The central tower resembles
that of the cathedral, both in the interior and the exterior.

It now appears truncated; but it was originally surmounted by a spire,
which was of such beauty, that even Italian artists thought it worthy
to be engraved and held out as a model at Rome [97].

The spire, however, was greatly injured by a hurricane, in 1705, and it was at last taken
down thirty years afterwards. To the triple porch, I have already
alluded, in describing the intended front of St. Ouen.

The general lines of the church, are such as in England would be referred to the fourteenth century:
on a closer examination, however, the curious eye will discover the
peculiar beauties of the French Gothic.

Thus the bosses of the groined roof are wrought and perforated into
filagree, the work extending over the intersections of the groins,
which are seen through its reticulations.

Such bosses are only found in the French churches of the sixteenth century. In other parts,
the interior closely resembles the style of the cathedral [98].

St. Patrice is a building of the worst style of the commencement of the sixteenth century: to
use the quaint phraseology of Horace Walpole, it exhibits "that betweenity which intervened when
Gothic declined and Palladian was creeping in."

The paintings on the walls of this church, and the stained glass in its windows, are more deserving
of notice than its architecture. The first are of small size, and generally better than are seen in similar
places. One of them is after Bassan, an artist, whose works are not often found in religious edifices
in France. The painted windows of the choir deserve unqualified commendation. They are said to have
been removed from St. Godard. Each is confined to a single subject; among which, that of the
Annunciation is esteemed the best.

To this church was attached a confraternity [99], established in 1374, under the name of the Guild
of the Passion. Its annual procession, which continued till the time of the revolution, took
place on Holy-Thursday.

It consisted of the usual pageantry; a host of children, dressed like angels, increased the train,
which also included twelve poor men, whose feet the masters of the brotherhood publicly washed
after mass. Like some other guilds, they were in possession of a pulpit or tribune, called, in
old French, a Puy, from which they issued a general invitation to all poets, who were summoned
to descant upon the themes which were commemorated by their union. The rewards held out to
the successful candidates were, in the true monastic spirit of the
guild, a reed, a crown of thorns, a sponge, or some other mystic or
devotional emblem.

Occasionally, too, they gave a scenic representation of certain portions of religious history,
according to the practice of early times. The account of the Mystery of the Passion having
been acted in the burial-ground of the church of St. Patrice, so recently as September, 1498,
is preserved by Taillepied [100], who tells us, that it was performed by "bons joueurs et braves
personages."

The masters of this guild had the extraordinary privilege of being allowed to charge the expence
attendant on the processions and exhibitions, upon any citizen they might think proper, whether
a member or otherwise.

The neighboring church of St. Godard possesses neither architectural beauty, nor architectural
antiquity; for, although it occupies the scite of an edifice of remote date, yet the present structure
is coeval with St. Patrice. It has been supposed that this church was the primitive cathedral of
the city [101]. One of the proofs of this assertion is found in a procession which, before the
revolution, was annually made hither by the chapter of the present cathedral, with great ceremony,
as if in recognition of its priority.

The church was originally dedicated to the Virgin; but it changed its advocation in the year
525, when St. Godard, more properly called St. Gildard, was buried here in a subterranean chapel;
and, for the reasons before noticed, the old tutelary patroness was compelled to yield to the
new visitor. In the succeeding century, St. Romain, a saint of still greater fame, was also
interred here; and, as I collect from Pommeraye [102], in the same
crypt.

This author strenuously denies the inferences which have been drawn from the annual procession,
which he maintains was performed solely in praise and in honor of St. Romain; for the chapter,
after having paid their devotions to the Host, descended into the chapel, to prostrate themselves
before the sepulture of the saint; on which subject, an antiquary [103] of Rouen has preserved
the following lines:-- "Ad regnum Domini dextrâ invitatus et ore,
Huic sacra Romanus credidit ossa loco; Sontibus addixit quæ cæca rebellio
flammis, Nec tulit impietas majus in urbe scelus.

Quid tanto vesana malo profecit Erynnis? Ipsa sui testis pignoris extat humus. Crypta manet,
memoresque trahit confessio cives, Nec populi fallit marmor inane fidem. Orphana, turba, veni, viduisque
allabere saxis, Est aliquid soboli patris habere thorum." The body of St. Godard was carried to Soissons;
but the tomb, which, has doubtfully been designated as appropriated either to him or to St. Romain, was
left to the church, and remained there at least till the revolution.

I have even been told that it is there still; but I had no opportunity of going down into the chapel
to verify this point. It consisted, or rather consists, of a single slab of jasper, seven and
a half feet long, by two feet wide, and two feet four inches thick. Upon it was this inscription:--
"Malades, voulez-vous soulager vos douleurs? Visitez ce tombeau, baignez-le de vos pleurs; Rechauffez
vos esprits d'une divine flame; Touchez-le settlement du doigt, Et
vous y trouverez (si vous avez la foi) Et la santé du corps, et la
santé de l'ame."

The building retains, at this time, only two of its celebrated painted
windows; but they are fortunately the two which were always considered
the best.

One of them represents the history of St. Romain; the other, the genealogy of Jewish kings, from whom
the Holy Virgin descended. Rouen has, from a very early period, been famous for its manufactories
of painted glass.

But the windows of this church were still esteemed the chef d'oeuvre of its artists; and these had so far
passed into a proverb, that Farin [104] tells us it was common throughout
France to say, in recommendation of choice wine, that "it was as bright
as the windows of St. Godard."

The saying, however, was by no means confined to Rouen, for it was also applied to the windows
of the Ste. Chapelle, at Dijon. It was at St. Godard that the burst of the reformation was first manifested.
The Huguenots, taking courage from the secret increase of their numbers, broke into the building,
in 1540, demolished the images, and sold the pix to a goldsmith. But the man suffered severely
for his purchase: he was shortly afterwards sentenced, by a decree
of the parliament, to be hanged in front of his shop; and two of
those concerned in the outrage also suffered capital punishment.

The spark thus lighted, afterwards increased into a conflagration; and, to this hour, there is a
larger body of Protestants at Rouen, than in most French towns.

I do not expect that you will reproach me with the prolixity of these details. The subject is attractive
to me, and I feel that you will accompany me with pleasure in my pilgrimage, from chapel to shrine,
dwelling with me in contemplation on the relics of ancient skill and the memorials of the piety
of the departed. Nor must it be forgotten, that the hand of the spoliator is falling heavily
on all objects of antiquity. And the French seem to find a source
of perverse and malignant pleasure in destroying the temples where
their ancestors once worshipped: many are swept away; a greater number
continue to exist in a desecrated state; and time, which changes all
things, is proceeding with hasty strides to obliterate their character.

The lofty steeple hides its diminished head; the mullions and tracery disappear from the pointed
windows, from which the stained glass has long since fallen; the
arched entrance contracts into a modern door-way; the smooth plain
walls betray neither niches, nor pinnacles, nor fresco paintings;
and in the warehouse, or manufactory, or smithy, little else remains
than the extraordinary size, to point out the original holy destination
of the edifice.

Footnotes: [91] The following brief statement of their excesses is copied from a manuscript belonging to
the monastery: the full detail of them engages Pommeraye for nearly seven folio pages:-- "Le
Dimanche troisiéme de May, 1562, les Huguenots s'étans amassez en grosse troupe, vinrent armez en
grande furie dans l'Eglise de S. Ouen, où étant entrez ils rompirent les chaires du choeur, le grand
autel, et toutes les chapelles: mirent en pieces l'Horloge, dont on voit encore la menuiserie
dans la chapelle joignant l'arcade du costé du septentrion, aussi bien que celles des orgues,
dont ils prirent l'étaim et le plomb pour en faire des balles de mousquet: puis ils allumerent
cinq feux, trois dedans l'Eglise et deux dehors, où ils brûlerent
tous les bancs et sieges des religieux, auec le bois des balustres
des chapelles, les bancs et fermetures d'icelles, plusieurs ornemens
et vestemens sacrez, comme chappes, tuniques, chasubles, aubes, vne
autre partie des plus riches et precieux ornemens de broderie et drap
d'or ayant esté enlevée en l'hôtellerie de la pomme de pin, où ils
les brûlerent pour en auoir l'or et l'argent.

Ils firent la mesme chose des saintes reliques, qu'ils brûlerent, ayant emporté l'or, l'argent,
et les pierreries des reliquaires."-- Histoire de l'Abbaye Royale de St. Ouen, p. 205. [92] Farin,
Histoire de Rouen, IV. p. 134. [93] Histoire de l'Abbaye Royales de Saint Ouen, p. 204. [94] The following
are the dimensions of the interior of the building, in French feet: Length of the church..................
416 Ditto of the nave..................... 234 Ditto of the choir....................
108 Ditto of the Lady-Chapel.............. 66 Ditto of the transept.................
130 Width of ditto........................ 34 Ditto of nave, without
the aisles..... 34 Ditto, including ditto................ 78 Height
of roof........................ 100 Ditto of tower........................
240 [95] Figured in Cotmans Norfolk Sepulchral Brasses.

[96] The house of the abbess of St. Amand is still standing, though
neglected, and in a great degree in ruins.

What remains, however, is very curious; and is, perhaps, the oldest specimen of domestic architecture
in Rouen. It is partly of wood, the front covered with arches and other sculpture in bas-relief,
and partly of stone. "Faster, faster! Put some ginger into it!"
"Get on your toes, Smith. Start when you see the ball coming. This isn't a funeral!" "Don't
stoop for the ball; fall on it! The ground will catch you!" "Jones, what are you doing? Wake
up." "No, no, NO! Great Scott, the ball won't bite you!"

The period was that exasperating one known as "the first two weeks," when coaches are continually
upon the border of insanity and players wonder dumbly if the game is worth the candle. To-day
Joel, one of a squad of unfortunates, was relearning the art of tackling. It was Joel's first
experience with that marvelous contrivance, "the dummy." One after another the squad was sent
at a sharp spurt to grapple the inanimate canvas-covered bag hanging inoffensively there, like
a body from a gallows, between the uprights.

There are supposed to be two ways to tackle, but the coach who was conducting the operations
to-day undoubtedly believed in the existence of at least thrice that number; for each candidate
for Varsity honors tackled the dummy in a totally different style. The lift tackle is performed
by seizing the opponent around the legs below the hips, bringing his knees together so that
further locomotion is an impossibility to him, and lifting him upward off the ground and depositing
him as far backward toward his own goal as circumstances and ability will permit. The lift
tackle is the easiest to make. The dive tackle pertains to swimming and suicide. Running toward
the opponent, the tackler leaves the ground when at a distance of a length and a half and dives
at the runner, aiming to tackle a few inches below the hips. A dive tackle well done always
accomplishes a well-defined pause in the runner's progress.

Joel was having hard work of it. Time and again he launched himself at the swaying legs, bringing
the canvas man to earth, but always picking himself up to find the coach observing him very,
very coldly, and to hear that exasperating gentleman ask sarcastically if he (Joel) thinks
he is playing "squat tag." And then the dummy would swing back into place, harboring no malice
or resentment for the rough handling, and Joel would take his place once more and watch the
next man's attempt, finding, I fear, some consolation in the "roast" accorded to the latter.

It was toward the latter part of the second week of college. Joel had practiced every day except
Sundays, and had just arrived at the conclusion that football as played at Harwell was no relation,
not even a distant cousin to the game of a similar name played at Hillton. Of course he was
wrong, since intercollegiate football, whether played by schoolboys or college students, is
still intercollegiate football. The difference lies only in the state of development. At Hillton
the game, very properly, was restricted to its more primary methods; at Harwell it is developed
to its uttermost limits. It is the difference between whist over the library table and whist
at the whist club.

But all things come to an end, and at length the coach rather ungraciously declared he could
stand no more and bade them join the rest of the candidates for the run. That run was two miles,
and Joel finally stumbled into the gymnasium tuckered out and in no very good temper just as
the five o'clock whistle on the great printing house sounded.

After dinner in the dining hall that evening Joel confided his doubts and vexations to Outfield
as they walked back to their room. "I wouldn't care if I thought I was making any progress,"
he wailed, "but each day it gets worse. To-day I couldn't seem to do a start right, and as
for tackling that old dummy, why--"

"Well, you did as well as the other chaps, didn't you?" asked Outfield.

"I suppose so. He gave it to us all impartially."

"Well, there you are. He can't tell you you're the finest young tacklers that ever happened,
because you'd all get swelled craniums and not do another lick of work. I know the sort of
fellow he is. He'll never tell you that you are doing well; only when he's satisfied with you
he'll pass you on. You see. And don't you care what he says. Just go on and do the best you
know how. Blair told me to-day that if you tried you could make the Varsity before the season
is over. What do you think of that? He says the coaches are puzzling their brains to find a
man that's fit to take the place of Dangfield, who was left-half last year."

"I dare say," answered Joel despondently, "but Durston will never let me stop tackling that
dummy arrangement. I'll be taking falls out of it all by myself when the Yates game is going
on. Who invented that thing, anyhow?"

But, nevertheless, Joel's spirits were very much better when the two lads reached the room
and West had turned on the soft light of the argand. And taking their books in hand, and settling
comfortably back in the two great cozy armchairs, they were soon busily reading.

Hazing has "gone out" at Harwell, and so, when at about nine the two boys beard many footfalls
outside their door, and when in response to West's loud "Come" five mysterious and muffled
figures in black masks entered they were somewhat puzzled what to think.

"March?" asked a deep voice.

"Yes," answered Joel with a wondering frown.

"West?"

"Yep. What in thunder do you want? And who in thunder are you?"

"Freshies, aren't you?" continued the inexorable voice. The maskers had closed and locked the
door behind them, and now stood in rigid inquisitorial postures between it and the table.

"None of your business," answered West crossly. "Get out, will you?"

"Not until our duties are done," answered the mask. "You are freshies, nice, new, tender little
freshies. We are here to initiate you into the mysteries of the Sacred Order of Hullabalooloo.
Stand up!" Neither moved; they were already standing, West puzzled and angry, Joel wondering
and amused.

"Well, sit down, then," commanded the voice. Joel looked meaningly at Outfield, and as the
latter nodded the two rushed at the members of the Sacred Order of Hullabalooloo. But the latter
were prepared. Over went the nearest armchair, down from the wall with a clatter came a rack
of books, and this way and that swayed the forms of the maskers and the two roommates. The
battle was short but decisive, and when it was done, Joel lay gasping on the floor and Outfield
sprawled breathless on the couch.

"Will you give up?" asked the first mask.

"Yes," growled West, and Joel echoed him.

"Then you may get up," responded the mask. "But, mind you, no tricks!" Joel thought he heard
the sound of muffled laughter from one of the masks as he arose and arranged his damaged attire.
"Freshman March will favor us with a song," announced the mask.

"I can't sing a word," answered Joel.

"You must. Hullabalooloo decrees it."

"Then Hullabalooloo can come and make me," retorted Joel stubbornly.

"What," asked the mask in a deep, grewsome voice, "what is the penalty for disobedience?"

"Tossed in the blanket," answered the other four in unison.

"You hear, Freshman March?" asked the mask. "Choose."

"I'll sing, I guess," answered Joel, with a grin. But West jumped up.

"Don't you do it, Joel! They can't make you sing! And they can't make me sing; and the first
one that comes in reach will get knocked down!"

"Oh, well, I don't mind singing," answered Joel. "That is, I don't mind trying. If they can
stand it, I can. What shall I sing?"

"What do you know?"

"I only know one song. I'll sing that, but on one condition."

"Name it?" answered the mask.

"That you'll join in and sing the chorus."

There was a moment of hesitation; then the masks nodded, and Joel mounted to a chair and with
a comical grimace of despair at West, who sat scowling on the couch, he began:

     "There is a flag of crimson hue,
      The fairest flag that flieth,
     Whose folds wave over hearts full true,
      As nobody denieth.
     Here's to the School, the School so dear;
      Here's to the soil it's built on!
     Here's to the heart, or far or near,
      That loves the Flag of Hillton.'"

Joel was not much of a singer, but his voice was good and he sang as though he meant it. Outfield
sat unresponsive until the verse was nearly done; then he moved restlessly and waited for the
chorus, and when it came joined in with the rest; and the strains of Hilltonians rang triumphantly
through the building.

The Knights of the Sacred Order of Hullabalooloo signified their approval and demanded the
next verse. And Joel sang it. And when the chorus came the maskers lost much of their dignity
and waved their arms about and shouted the refrain so loud that doors up and down the hall
opened and wondering voices shouted "Shut up!" or "More! M-o-r-e!" for two minutes after. As
the last word was reached Joel leaned quickly forward toward an unsuspicious singer, and, snatching
the mask from his face, revealed the countenance of Louis Whipple.

And then, amid much laughter, the other masks were slipped off, and the remaining members of
the Sacred Order of Hullabalooloo stood revealed as Blair, Cartwright, Somers, and Cooke.

CHAPTER XVIII.

VISITORS FROM MARCHDALE.

Despite Joel's dark forebodings, he was at last released from tackling practice. And with that
moment he began to take hope for better things. Under the charge of Kent, one of the coaches
and an old Harwell half, Joel was instructed in catching punts till his arms ached and his
eyes watered, and in kicking until he seemed to be one-sided. Starting with the ball he no
longer dreaded, since he had mastered that science and could now delight the coach by leaping
from a stand as though shot from the mouth of a cannon.

Signals he had no trouble with. His memory was excellent, and he possessed the faculty of rapid
computation; though as yet his brain had been but little taxed, since the practice code was
still in use. At the end of the third week both Varsity and scrub teams were at length selected,
and Joel, to his delight, found himself playing left-half on the latter. Two match games a
week was now the rule for the Varsity, and Joel each Wednesday and Saturday might have been
found seated under the fence dividing the gridiron from the grand stand wrapped nearly from
sight, if the afternoon was chilly, in a great gray blanket, and watching the play with all
the excited ardor of the veriest schoolboy on the stand behind.

One Saturday Prince, the Varsity left-half, twisted his ankle, and Joel was taken on in his
place. They were playing Amherst, and Joel has ever since held that college in high esteem,
for that it was against its Eleven he made his début into Harwell football life. And how he
played! The captain smiled as he watched him prance down the field after a punt, never content
to be there in time, but always striving to get there first, and not seldom succeeding. Once
he succeeded too well.

It was in the second half. Blair--it was his first year on the team--was playing full-back.
On a first down he punted the ball a long and rather low kick into Amherst's territory. Joel
bowled over an Amherst end who was foolish enough to get in the way and started down the field
like an Indian warrior on the war path. The Harwell ends were a little in advance but off to
the sides, and Joel sprinted hard and easily passed them both. Kingdon, the right half, gave
him a good run, but he too was passed, and Joel reached the Amherst full-back just as that
gentleman turned for the ball, which had passed unexpectedly over his head. The goal line was
but thirty yards distant. Joel saw only the full-back, the ball, and the goal line. He forgot
everything else. A small cyclone struck the full, and when he picked himself up it was to see
a crimson-legged player depositing the pigskin back of goal and to hear a roar of laughter
from the seats!

Then he yelled "Off side!" at the top of his lungs and tore down on Joel, and, much to that
young gentleman's surprise, strove to wrest the ball from him. It was quite uncalled for, and
Joel naturally resented it to the extent of pushing violently, palms open, against the Amherst
man's jacket, with the result that the Amherst gentleman sat down backward forcibly upon the
turf at some distance. And again the stands laughed. But Joel gravely lifted the ball and walked
back to the thirty-yard line with it. The center took it with a grin, and, as the five yards
of penalty for off side was paced, Joel was rewarded for his play with the muttered query from
the captain:

"What were you doing, you idiot?"

But too great zeal is far more excusable than too small, and Joel was quickly forgiven, and
all the more readily, perhaps, since Amherst was held for downs, and the ball went over on
the second next play. But Joel called himself a great many unpleasant names during the rest
of the game, and for a long while after could not think of his first touch-down without feeling
his cheeks redden. Nevertheless, his manner of getting down the field under kicks undoubtedly
impressed the coaches favorably, for when the scrub was further pruned to allow it to go to
training table Joel was retained.

One bright October day Joel and Outfield went into town to meet the former's parents at the
station; for Mr. and Mrs. March had long before made up their minds to the visit, and the two
boys had been looking forward to it for some time. It was worth going a long way to see the
pleasure with which the old farmer and his wife greeted the great long-legged youth who towered
so far above them there on the station platform. Joel kissed his mother fondly, patted his
father patronizingly but affectionately on the back, and asked fifty questions in as many minutes.
And all his mother could do was to gaze at him in reverent admiration and sigh, over and over:

"Land sakes, Joel March, how you do grow!"

It must not be thought that West was neglected. Farmer March, in especial, showed the greatest
pleasure at meeting him again, and shook hands with him four times before the street was reached
and the car that was to carry them to the college town gained. The boys conducted the visitors
to their room, and made lunch for them on a gas stove, Outfield drawing generously on his private
larder, situated under the foot of his bed. Then the four hunted up a pleasant room in one
of the student boarding houses, and afterward showed the old people through the college.

There was a good deal to see and many questions to answer, since Joel's father was not a man
to leave an object of interest until he had learned all there was to be told about it. The
elms in the yard were fast losing their yellow leaves, but the grass yet retained much of its
verdancy, and as for the sky, it was as sweetly blue as on the fairest day in spring. Up one
side of the yard and down the other went the sightseers, poking into dark hallways, reading
tablets and inscriptions, the latter translated by West into the most startling English, pausing
before the bulletins to have the numerous announcements of society and club meetings explained,
drinking from the old pump in the corner, and so completing the circuit and storming the gymnasium,
where at last Joel's powers of reply were exhausted and Outfield promptly sprang into the breech,
explaining gravely that the mattresses on the floor were used by Doctor Major, the director
of the gymnasium, who invariably took a cat-nap during the afternoon, that the suspended rings
were used to elevate sophomores while corporeal punishment was administered by freshmen, and
that the queer little weights in the boxes around the walls were reserve paper weights.

Then the line of march was taken up toward Sailors' Field, where they arrived just in time
to see the beginning of the practice game between the Varsity and the scrub. Joel had been
excused from attendance that day, and so he took his seat beside the others on the grand stand
and strove to elucidate the philosophy of football.

"You see the scrubs have the ball. They must get it past the Varsity down to the end of the
field, where they can either put it down over the line or kick it over that cross-piece there.
That's center, that fellow that's arranging the ball. He kicks off. There it goes, and a good
kick, too. Sometimes the center-rush isn't a good kicker; then some one else kicks off. Blair
has the ball. Look, see him dodge with it. He gained ten yards that time."

"Oh!" It was Joel's mother who exclaimed. "Why, Joel, that other man threw him down."

"That's part of the game, mother. He did that to keep Blair from getting the ball any nearer
the scrub's goal. He isn't hurt, you see."

"And do you mean that they do that all the time?"

"Pretty often."

"And do you get thrown around that way, Joel?"

"Sometimes, mother; when I'm lucky enough to get the ball."

"Well, I never."

"Football's not a bad game, Mr. March," West was saying. "But it doesn't come up to golf, you
know. It's too rough."

"It does look a little rough," answered Mr. March. "Do they often get hurt? Seems as though
when a boy had another fellow on his head, and another on his stomach, and another on his feet,
and the whole lot of them banging away at once, seems like that boy would be a little uncomfortable."

West laughed.

"Sometimes a fellow has his ankle sprained or a knee twisted, or a shoulder-bone bust, or something
like that. But it isn't often anything worse occurs."

"Well, I suppose it's all right then. Only when I was a boy we never went round trying to get
our ankles sprained or our collar-bones broke; you young fellows are tougher than we were,
I guess."

"I shouldn't wonder, sir. I believe Joel has been feeling pretty bad for a long time because
he's got nothing worse than a broken finger."

"What? Broke his finger, did he? Eh? He didn't write anything about it; what's he mean, getting
broken to pieces and not telling his parents about it?" West glanced apprehensively at Joel,
but the latter had missed the conversation, being busy following the progress of Barton, of
the scrub, who was doing a long run along the side line.

"Well, it wasn't much of a break, sir. It's all right now, and I think he thought you'd be
worried, you know. I'm sure if it had been anything important he would have written at once."

"Humph," grunted Joel's father. "If he's going to break himself in pieces he'd better stop
football. I won't have him taking risks. I'll tell him so!"

The fifteen-minute half had come to an end, and the players were either resting on the ground
or going through some pass or start under the tuition of a coach. Suddenly Joel looked down
to see Briscom, the scrub captain, climbing the seats. He ducked his bare head to the others
and sank into the seat at Joel's side.

"Look here, March, can you help us out the next half? They've taken Webster on the Varsity,
and"--he lowered his voice to a confidential roar--"we want to make a good showing to-day."

"Of course," answered Joel, "I'll come at once. Can I get some togs from some fellow?"

"Yes. I'll ask Whitman to find some. I'm sorry to take you away from your folks, but it's only
fifteen minutes, you know."

So when the whistle blew Joel was at left half-back on the scrub, attired in borrowed plumage
that came far from fitting him. And Mrs. March was in a tremor of dismay lest some one should
throw Joel down as she had seen Blair thrown. Mr. March had not quite recovered from his resentment
over his son's failure to apprise him of the broken finger, which, after all, was only broken
in West's imagination, and viewed his advent on the field with disfavor.

Outfield began to wonder if his pleasant fiction regarding Joel's finger was to lead to unpleasant
results, when Mr. March relieved his mind somewhat by suddenly taking interest in the career
of his son, who was trying to make an end run inside Dutton with half the scrub hauling, pushing,
pulling, shoving him along.

"Er--isn't that likely to be bad for that finger of his?"

"Oh, no, sir," answered West. "He looks out for his finger all right enough. There, he made
the distance. Bully work. Good old Joel."

"Did he do well then, Mr. West?" asked Joel's mother. "Of course he did, mother," answered
Mr. March disdainfully. "Didn't you see him lugging all those fellows along with him? How much
does that count, West?"

"Well, that doesn't score anything, but it helps. The scrub has to pass that line down there
before it can score. What they're trying to do now is to get down there, and Joel's helping.
You watch him now. I think they're going to give him the ball again for another try around
end." West was right in his surmise. Kicks were barred to-day save as a last resort, and the
game was favoring the scrub as a consequence. The ball was passed to the right half-back; Joel
darted forward like an arrow, took the ball from right, made a quick swerve as he neared the
end of the line, and ran outside of the Varsity right end, Captain Dutton, who had been playing
pretty well in, in the expectation of another try through tackle-end hole. As Joel got safely
by it is more than likely that he found added satisfaction in the feat as he recalled that
remark of Dutton's the week before: "What were you doing, you idiot?"

Joel got safely by Dutton, and fooled the sprightly Prince, but very nearly ran into the arms
of Kingdon, who missed his tackle by a bare six inches. Then the race began. Joel's path lay
straight down by the side line. The field followed him at a distance, and the most he could
hope for was a touch-down near the corner of the field, which would require a punt-out.

"Ain't that Joel?" cried Mr. March, forgetting his grammar and his dignity at one and the same
moment, and jumping excitedly to his feet. "Ain't that Joel there running? Hey? They can't
catch him. I'll lay Joel to outrun the whole blame pack of 'em. Every day, sir. Hey? What?"

"I think he's all right, sir, for a touch-down," answered West gayly. "Hello, there's Blair
leaving the bunch. Tally-Ho!"

"I don't care if it's a steam-engine," shouted Mr. March, "he can't--I don't know but as he's
gaining a little, that fellow. Eh?"

"Looks like it," answered West, while Mrs. March, with her hand on her husband's arm, begged
him to sit down and "stop acting so silly."

"Geewhillikins!" cried Mr. March, "Joel's caught! No, he's not--yet--Eh?--Too bad, too bad.
Run, Joel, he's got ye!" Suddenly Mr. March, who had almost subsided on his seat, jumped again
to his feet.

"Here! Stop that, you fellow! Hi!" He turned angrily to Outfield, his eyes blazing. "What'd
he knock him down for? Eh? What's he sitting on my boy for? Is that fair? Eh?"

West and Mrs. March calmed him down and explained that tackling was quite within the law, and
that he only sat on him to prevent him from going on again; for Blair had cut short Joel's
triumph fifteen yards from the goal line, and the spectators of the soul-stirring dash down
the field were slowly settling again in their seats. 6. To defraud, oppress, and maltreat the
freedmen seems to be the principle governing the action of more than
half of those who make contracts with them.

7. The lives of the freedmen are frequently threatened, and murders
are not of uncommon occurrence.

8.

About
the 15th of July Corporal J. M. Wallace, of company B, forty-seventh Indiana Veteran volunteer
infantry, was on duty with this bureau, and engaged in making contracts upon Red river, in the
parish of Caddo.

He visited Mr. Daniel's plantation, and, as it is stated, started for Mr. White's place, but
never reached it. Being absent unaccountably, a sergeant and a detail of four men were sent
to look him up, but could find no trace of him. Without doubt he was murdered. He was a young man
of unexceptionable habits and character, and was highly esteemed by the officers of his regiment.
The circumstances of the case are such as to lead to the belief that
the planters in the vicinity connived at his death.

Captain Hoke, another agent of the bureau, was stopped by a highwayman within eight miles
of Shreveport. One of my assistants reports as follows: "In the northern part of this parish
(Cuddo) there are men armed and banded to resist the law." These facts prove that the presence
of a military force is needed in every parish. Instead of the present system of districts, I
would recommend that the officer for each parish report direct to headquarters at New Orleans for
instructions, and that each officer be furnished with at least twenty
men, ten of whom should be mounted.

I apprehend that at the commencement of the next year the planters
will endeavor to load us down with the aged and infirm, and those
with large families.

To meet this and other difficulties that may arise, I recommend that
at least five thousand acres of land be confiscated in every parish,
and an opportunity given the freedmen to rent or purchase the land,
and that every facility be afforded planters in the lower part of
the State to obtain laborers from western Louisiana.

Another remedy has been suggested, and as it meets with my approval I quote the recommendations
of the officer in his own words: "Let the white troops on duty in this department be mustered
out; they are greatly dissatisfied with remaining in the service after the close of the war;
let black troops be mustered in their stead. In urging this matter, I suggest that the government
has the first right to the services of the freedmen, and he needs the discipline of the army to
develop his manhood and self-reliance.

Such a course of recruiting black soldiers will act as a powerful restraint upon the abuses practiced
by the planters on the freedmen, and will also compel the payment of better wages. If the planter
wishes the services of a shrewd, enterprising freedman, he must out-bid the government. Lastly,
the country needs the soldiers. Politicians may say what they may; western Louisiana is no more
loyal now than when the State adopted the ordinance of secession."

The statistics given at the commencement prove that we have experienced less difficulty with
the freedmen than could have been expected. At times it has been necessary to adopt stringent
measures to stem the tide of freedmen that seemed to be setting in toward Shreveport, and
many of them have such vague ideas of the moral obligations of a
contract that it has been necessary to strengthen them by imprisonment
and hard labor; but the great and insuperable difficulty which meets
us at every step is, that the planters and the freedmen have no confidence
in and respect for each other.

The planters inform us that they are the best friends of the negro, but the freedmen fail to see the matter
in that light. I am well assured that as a general rule the old planters and overseers can never
succeed with the freedmen; that there must be an entire change in
either laborers or proprietors before the country will again be prosperous.

The plan of renting lands to the freedmen, as proposed by a few planters, I am of the opinion
will prove very profitable to both parties. While, as a general rule, there is constant difficulty
between the freedmen and their old masters and overseers, my agents
and northern men have no trouble with them; and should the planters
employ practical farmers from the north as business managers, it seems
to be well demonstrated that the free-labor system, as it now is,
with but slight modifications, would be a grand success.

In this connexion I cannot refrain from noticing the assertion of
a southern politician to the effect "that were the freedmen enfranchised,
nine out of ten of them would vote for their old masters," which assertion
every freedman will pronounce a wilful and malignant falsehood.

The country is full of arms, and their use upon the freedmen is so
frequent, and the general disposition of the people such, that I would
strongly recommend, as a measure to secure the safety of life and
property, that all classes of arms be taken from the citizens, not
to be returned until an entirely different disposition is evinced.

The system to be made binding for the next year should be published as early as the 15th of October,
and the matter of contracting be commenced as soon thereafter as the parties desire to do
so. I would respectfully suggest the propriety for calling of such statistical matter upon
the back of the contract as will enable the officer in charge of the educational interests to
determine the whole number of freedmen residing in the different parishes, and also the number
of children of school age.

The establishment of schools will be met by the most venomous opposition,
and a military force will be required to protect the teacher and scholars
from insult and injury unless the tone of public sentiment improves
very rapidly.

The civil authorities, so far as my knowledge extends, are not willing
to grant the freedmen the rights to which their freedom entitles
them.

In fact it became necessary, as will be seen by a former report, for the military authorities to
interfere to prevent their being virulently oppressed.

In consequence of this I have kept an officer constantly on duty adjusting the difficulties arising
between the whites and negroes, but important cases have been referred
to the military authorities.

Chaplain Thomas Callahan, the officer referred to above, in his last
report says: "To many of the planters the idea of a negro's testimony
being as good as a white man's is very unpleasant, and occasional
attempts are made to bully and browbeat a colored witness upon the
stand.

The attempt is never made twice. Once I pitted a lawyer against a
negro witness, held the parties on the cross-examination, and the
lawyer was badly beaten. Some of the freedmen can conduct a case
with uncommon shrewdness."

I cannot urge upon your attention too strongly the importance of keeping an officer in every parish
and of providing him with a sufficient guard to command respect and enforce obedience to the
laws.

The presence of a military force, with judicious and discreet officers to
command it, is the only means of securing to the freedmen their rights
and of giving proper security to life and property.

Ordinance relative to the police of recently emancipated negroes or freedmen within the corporate
limits of the town of Opelousas.

Whereas the
relations formerly subsisting between master and slave have become changed by the action of the
controlling authorities; and whereas it is necessary to provide for
the proper police and government of the recently emancipated negroes
or freedmen in their new relations to the municipal authorities: SECTION
1.

Be it therefore ordained by the board of police of the town of Opelousas, That no negro or freedman
shall be allowed to come within the limits of the town of Opelousas without special permission
from his employers, specifying the object of his visit and the time necessary for the accomplishment
of the same.

Whoever shall violate this provision shall suffer imprisonment and two days'work on the public streets,
or shall pay a fine of two dollars and fifty cents. SECTION 2. Be it further ordained, That every
negro freedman who shall be found on the streets of Opelousas after
10 o'clock at night without a written pass or permit from his employer
shall be imprisoned and compelled to work five days on the public
streets, or pay a fine of five dollars.

Any one violating the provisions of this, section shall be imprisoned and forced to work for two days on
the public streets. SECTION 5.

No public meetings or congregations of negroes or freedmen shall be allowed within the limits
of the town of Opelousas under any circumstances or for any purpose
without the permission of the mayor or president of the board. This
prohibition is not intended, however, to prevent the freedmen from
attending the usual church services conducted by established ministers
of religion.

Every freedman violating this law shall be imprisoned and made to work five days on the public streets.
SECTION 6.

No negro, or freedman shall be permitted to preach, exhort, or otherwise declaim to congregations
of colored people without a special permission from the mayor or president of the board of police
under the penalty of a fine of ten dollars or twenty days'work on the public streets. SECTION
7. No freedman who is not in the military service shall be allowed to carry firearms, or any
kind of weapons, within the limits of the town of Opelousas without the special permission of
his employer, in writing, and approved by the mayor or president
of the board of police.

Any one thus offending shall forfeit his weapons and shall be imprisoned
and made to work for five days on the public streets or pay a fine
of five dollars in lieu of said work.

SECTION 9. Any freedman found drunk within the limits of the town shall be imprisoned and made to
labor five days on the public streets, or pay five dollars in lieu of said labor. SECTION
10.

Any freedman
not residing in Opelousas who shall be found within the corporate
limits after the hour of 3 p. m. on Sunday without a special permission
from his employer or the mayor shall be arrested and imprisoned and
made to work two days on the public streets, or pay two dollars in
lieu of said work.

SECTION 11. All the foregoing provisions apply to freedmen and freedwomen, or both sexes. SECTION
12. It shall be the special duty of the mayor or president of the board to see that all the provisions
of this ordinance are faithfully executed. SECTION 13. Be it further ordained, That this ordinance
to take effect from and after its first publication. Ordained the 3d day of July, 1865. E. D.
ESTILLETTE, President of the Board of Police. JOS.

D. RICHARDS, Clerk. Official copy: J. LOVELL, Captain and Assistant Adjutant General. No. 35.
An ordinance relative to the police of negroes recently emancipated
within the parish of St. Landry.

Whereas it was formerly made the duty of the police jury to make suitable regulations for
the police of slaves within the limits of the parish; and whereas slaves have become emancipated
by the action of the ruling powers; and whereas it is necessary
for public order, as well as for the comfort and correct deportment
of said freedmen, that suitable regulations should be established
for their government in their changed condition, the following ordinances
are adopted, with the approval of the United States military authorities
commanding in said parish, viz: SECTION 1.

Be it ordained by the police jury of the parish of St. Landry, That
no negro shall be allowed to pass within the limits of said parish
without a special permit in writing from his employer.

Whoever shall violate this provision shall pay a fine of two dollars and fifty cents, or in
default thereof shall be forced to work four days on the public road,
or suffer corporeal punishment as provided hereinafter.

SECTION 2. Be it further ordained, That every negro who shall be found absent from the residence
of his employer after 10 o'clock at night, without a written permit
from his employer, shall pay a fine of five dollars, or in default
thereof, shall be compelled to work five days on the public road,
or suffer corporeal punishment as hereinafter provided.

SECTION 3.

Be it further ordained, That no negro shall be permitted to rent
or keep a house within said parish.

Any negro violating this provision shall be immediately ejected and
compelled to find an employer; and any person who shall rent, or give
the use of any house to any negro, in violation of this section, shall
pay a fine of five dollars for each offence.

SECTION 4.

But said employer or former owner may permit said negro to hire his
own time by special permission in writing, which permission shall
not extend over seven days at any one time.

Be it further ordained, That no public meetings or congregations
of negroes shall be allowed within said parish after sunset; but such
public meetings and congregations may be held between the hours of
sunrise and sunset, by the special permission in writing of the captain
of patrol, within whose beat such meetings shall take place.

This prohibition, however, is not intended to prevent negroes from
attending the usual church services, conducted by white ministers
and priests.

Be it further ordained, That no negro who is not in the military service shall be allowed to carry fire-arms,
or any kind of weapons, within the parish, without the special written permission of his employers,
approved and indorsed by the nearest or most convenient chief of patrol.
Be it further ordained, That no negro shall sell, barter, or exchange any
articles of merchandise or traffic within said parish without the special
written permission of his employer, specifying the articles of sale,
barter or traffic. Be it further ordained, That all the foregoing provisions
shall apply to negroes of both sexes.

SECTION 11.

SECTION 12. Be it further ordained, That the aforesaid penalties shall
be summarily enforced, and that it shall be the duty of the captains
and chiefs of patrol to see that the aforesaid ordinances are promptly
executed.

SECTION 13. Be it further ordained, That all sums collected from the aforesaid fines shall
be immediately handed over to the parish treasurer. SECTION 14. Be it
further ordained, That the corporeal punishment provided for in the
foregoing sections shall consist in confining the body of the offender
within a barrel placed over his or her shoulders, in the manner practiced
in the army, such confinement not to continue longer than twelve hours,
and for such time within the aforesaid limit as shall be fixed by
the captain or chief of patrol who inflicts the penalty.

SECTION 15. Be it further ordained, That these ordinances shall not interfere with any municipal
or military regulations inconsistent with them within the limits of
said parish. SECTION 16. Be it further ordained, That these ordinances
shall take effect five days after their publication in the Opelousas
Courier. Official copy: J. LOVELL, Captain and Assistant Adjutant
General.

At a meeting of the citizens of the parish of St. Mary, held at the
court-house in the town of Franklin, on Saturday, the 15th instant,
P. C. Bethel, Esq., was called to the chair, when a committee was
appointed to report upon certain matters submitted to the consideration
of the meeting, which committee reported by their chairman the following,
which was unanimously adopted: REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE. They say virtue thrives
best on homely fare, and, like lots of other proverbs, I guess it's sometimes true."

Then Remsen told of his visit to Hillton a few weeks previous. The Eleven this year was in
pretty good shape, he thought; Greene, an upper middle man, was captain; they expected to have
an easy time with St. Eustace, who was popularly supposed to be in a bad way for veteran players.
That same Greene was winning the golf tournament when he was there, Remsen continued, and the
golf club was in better shape than ever before, thanks to the hard work of West, Whipple, Blair,
and a few others in building it up.

The two friends reached the house, and Remsen led the way into his room, and set about unpacking
his things. Joel took up a position on the bed and gave excellent advice as to the disposal
of everything from a pair of stockings to a typewriter.

"It's a strange fact," said Remsen as he thrust a suit of pajamas under the pillow, "that Outfield
West is missed at Hillton more than any fellow who has graduated from there for several years
past. Perhaps I don't mean exactly strange, either, for of course he's a fellow that every
one naturally likes. What I do mean is that one would naturally suppose fellows like Blair
or Whipple would leave the most regrets behind them, for Blair was generally conceded to be
the most popular fellow in school the last two years of his stay, and Whipple was surely running
him a close second. And certainly their memories are still green. But everywhere I went it
was: 'Have you heard from Outfield West?' 'How's West getting on at college?' And strange to
say, such inquiries were not confined to the fellows alone. Professor Wheeler asked after West
particularly, and so did Briggs, and several others of the faculty; and Mrs. Cowles as well.

"But you are still the hero there, March. The classic history of Hillton still recounts the
prowess of one Joel the First, who kicked a goal from field and defeated thereby the hosts
of St. Eustace. And Professor Durkee shakes his head and says he will never have another so
attentive and appreciative member of his class. And now tell me, how are you getting on with
Dutton?"

So Joel recited his football adventures in full, not omitting the ludicrous touch-down, which
received laughing applause from his listener, and recounting his promotion to the position
of Varsity substitute.

"Yes, I saw in the paper last week that you had been placed on the sub list of the Varsity.
I hope you'll have a chance to play against Yates, although I don't wish Prince any harm. He's
a good fellow and a hard worker. Hello, it's one-fifteen. Let's get some lunch."

A half hour later they parted, Joel hurrying off to recitation and Remsen remaining behind
to keep an appointment with a friend. After this they met almost every day, and Remsen was
a frequent caller at Joel's room, where he with Joel and Outfield held long, cosy chats about
every subject from enameling golf balls to the Philosophy of Kant and the Original Protoplasm.

Meanwhile the season hurried along. Harwell met and defeated the usual string of minor opponents
by varying scores, and ran up against the red and blue of Keystone College with disastrous
results. But one important contest intervened between the present time and the game with Yates,
and the hardest sort of hard work went on daily inside the inclosed field. A small army of
graduates had returned to coach the different players, and the daily papers were filled, according
to their wont, with columns of sensational speculation and misinformation regarding the merits
of the team and the work they were performing. Out of the mass of clashing "facts" contained
in the daily journals but one thing was absolutely apparent: to wit, the work of the Harwell
Eleven was known only to the men and the coaches, and neither would tell about it.

At last, when chill November had been for a few days in the land, the game with the red and
white clad warriors from Ithaca took place on a wet and muddy field, and Joel played the game
through from start to finish, Prince being engaged in nursing his treacherous ankle, which
had developed alarming symptoms with the advent of wet weather. The game resulted in a score
of twenty-four to five, the Ithacans scoring a neat, but inexcusable, goal from field in the
first half. Joel played like a Trojan, and went around the left end of the opposing line time
and again for good gains, until the mere placing of the ball in his hands was accepted by the
spectators as equal to an accomplished gain.

Wesley Blair made a dashing charge through a crowded field for twelve yards and scored a touch-down
that brought the onlookers to their feet cheering. Dutton, the captain, played a steady brilliant
interfering game, and Kingdon, at right half-back, plunged through the guard-tackle holes time
and again with the ball hugged to his stomach, and kept his feet in a manner truly marvelous
until the last inch had been gained.

But critics nevertheless said unkind things of the team work as they wended their way back
over the sodden turf, and shook their heads dubiously over the field-goal scored by the opponents.
There would be a general shaking up on the morrow, they predicted, and we should see what we
should see. And the coaches, too, although they dissembled their feelings under cheerful countenances,
found much to condemn, and the operations of bathing, dressing, and weighing that afternoon
were less enjoyable to the breathless, tattered men.

The next day the team "went into executive session," as Joel called it, and the predicted shake-up
took place. Murdoch, the left guard, was deemed too slight for the place, and was sent to the
side line, from where he presently crawled to a seat on the great empty stand, and hiding his
blanketed head wept like a child. And there were other changes made. Joel kept his place at
left half, pending the bettering of Prince's ankle, and Blair was secure at full. But when
the practice game began, many of the old forms were either missing or to be seen in the second
Eleven's line, and the coaches hovered over the field of battle with dark, forbidding looks,
and said mean things whenever the opportunity presented itself, and were icily polite to each
other, as men will be when they know themselves to be in the right and every one else in the
wrong. And so practice that Thursday was an unpleasant affair, and had the desired effect;
for the men played the game for all that was in them and attended strictly to the matter in
hand, forgetting for the time the intricacies of Latin compositions and the terrors of coming
examinations. When it was over Joel crawled off of the scale with the emotions of a weary draught
horse and took his way slowly toward home. In the square he ran against Outfield, who, armed
with a monstrous bag of golf requisites, had just leaped off a car.

"Hello, Joel," he cried. "What's happened? Another off-sider? Have you broken that finger again?
Honest Injun, what's up?"

"Nothing, Out; I'm just kind of half dead. We had two thirty-minute halves, with forty-'leven
coaches yelling at us every second, and a field like a turnip patch just before seeding. Oh,
no, there's nothing the matter; only if you know of any quiet corner where I can die in peace,
lead me there, Out. I won't keep you long; it will soon be over."

"No, I don't, my flippant young friend, but I know something a heap better."

"Nothing can be better any more, Out. Still--well, what is it?"

"A couple of hot lemonades and a pair of fat sandwiches at Noster's. Come along."

"You're not so bad, Out," said Joel as they hurried up the street. "You have moments of almost
human intelligence!"

CHAPTER XXI.

THE DEPARTURE.

The backs and substitute backs, together with Story, the quarter, Captain Dutton, and one or
two assistant coaches, including Stephen Remsen, were assembled in Bancroft 6. The head coach
was also present, and with a long pointer in one hand and a piece of chalk in the other was
going through a sequence for the benefit of the backs, who had been called a half hour ahead
of the rest of the Eleven. The time was a half hour after dinner.

On the blackboard strange squares and lines and circles confronted the men in the seats. The
head coach placed the tip of the pointer on a diagram marked "No. 2. Criss-Cross."

"This is the second of the sequence, and is an ordinary criss-cross from left half-back to
right half-back. If you don't understand it readily, say so. I want you to ask all the questions
you can think of. The halves take positions, as in the preceding play, back of the line behind
the tackle-guard holes. The ball goes to left half, who runs just back of quarter. Right half
starts a moment after the ball is put in play, also going back of quarter and outside of left
half and receiving the ball at a hand pass from the latter, and continuing on through the hole
between left end and tackle. Right end starts simultaneously with left half, taking the course
indicated, in front of quarter and close to the line, and interfering through the line for
the runner."

"Left end blocks opposing end outward. Quarter clears the hole out for the runner. Full-back
does not start until the pass from quarter to left half is made. He must then time himself
so as to protect the second pass. In case of a fumble the ball is his to do the best he can
with through the end-tackle hole. If the pass is safe he follows left half through, blocking
opposing left end long enough to keep him out of the play.

"You will go through this play to-morrow and you will get your slips to-morrow evening here.
Now is there anything not clear to you?"

Apparently there was a great deal, for the questions came fast and furious, the coaches all
taking a hand in the discussion, and the diagram being explained all over again very patiently
by the head. Then another diagram was tackled.

"The third of this sequence is from an ordinary formation," began the head coach. "It is intended
to give the idea of a kick, or, failing that, of a run around left end. It will very probably
be used as a separate play in the last few minutes of a half, especially where the line-up
is near the side line, right being the short side of the field. You will be given the signal
calling this as a separate play to-morrow evening.

"Full-back stands as for a kick, and when the signal is given moves in a step or two toward
quarter as unnoticeably as possible; position 2 in the diagram. He must be careful to come
to a full stop before the ball is snapped back, and should time himself so that he will not
have to stay there more than a second. The instant the ball is snapped full-back runs forward
to the position indicated here by 3, and receives the ball on a short pass from quarter. Left
half starts at the same instant, and receives the ball from full as he passes just behind him,
continuing on and around the line outside of right end. It is right half's play to make the
diversion by starting with the ball and going through the line between left tackle and guard;
he is expected to get through and into the play on the other side. Left end starts when the
ball is snapped, and passing across back of the forwards clears out the hole for the runner.
Quarter interferes, assisted by full-back, and should at all costs down opposing half. Right
end helps right tackle throw in opposing end. Much of the success of this play depends on the
second pass, from full-back to left half, and it must be practiced until there is no possibility
of failure. Questions, fellows."

After the discussion of the last play a half hour's talk on interference was given to the rest
of the Eleven and substitutes, who had arrived meanwhile. Remsen and Joel left Bancroft together
and crossed the yard toward the latter's room. The sky was bright with myriads of stars and
the buildings seemed magnified by the wan radiance to giant castles. Under the shadow of University
Remsen paused to light his pipe, and, without considering, the two found themselves a moment
later seated on the steps.

From the avenue the clang-clang of car gongs sounded sharp and clear, and red and white and
purple lights flitted like strange will-o'-wisps through the half light, and disappeared into
the darkness beyond the common. The lights in the stores beamed dimly. A green shade in Pray's
threw a sickly shaft athwart the pavement. But even as they looked a tall figure, weariness
emanating from every movement, stepped between window and light, book in hand, and drew close
the blinds.

"Poor devil!" sighed Remsen. "Three hours more of work, I dare say, before he stumbles, half
blind, into bed. And all for what, Joel? That or--that?" He pointed with his pipe-stem to where
Jupiter shone with steady radiance high in the blue-black depths; then indicated a faint yellow
glow that flared for an instant in the darkness across the yard where a passer had paused to
light his pipe.

"We can't all be Jupiters, Remsen," answered Joel calmly. "Some of us have to be little sticks
of wood with brimstone tips. But they're very useful little things, matches. And, after all,
does it matter as long as we do what we have to do as well as we can? Old Jupiter up there
is a very fine chap undoubtedly, and if he shirked a minute or two something unpleasant would
probably occur; but he isn't performing his task any better than the little match performed
his. 'Scratch--pouf' and the match's work's done. But it has lighted a fire. Can you do better,
Mr. Jupiter?"

Remsen made no reply for a moment, but Joel knew that he was smiling there beside him. A little
throng of students passed by, humming softly a song in time with their echoing footsteps, and
glanced curiously at the forms on the steps. Then Remsen struck a match on the stone.

"'Scratch--pouf!'" he said musingly, relighting his pipe. In the act of tossing the charred
splinter away he stopped; then he laid it beside him on the step. "Good little match," he muttered.
Joel laughed softly.

"March," asked Remsen presently, "have you changed your mind yet about studying law?"

"No; but sometimes I get discouraged when I think of what a time it will take to arrive anywhere.
And sometimes, too, I begin to think that a fellow who can't talk more readily than I ought
to go into the hardware business or raise chickens for a living instead of trying to make a
lawyer out of himself."

"It isn't altogether talk, March," answered Remsen, "that makes a good lawyer. Brains count
some. If you get where you can conduct a case to a successful result you will never miss the
'gift o' the gab.' Talking's the little end of the horn in my profession, despite tradition.

"I asked for a reason, March," he went on. "What do you say to our forming a partnership? When
you get through the Law School you come to me, if you wish, and tell me that you are ready
to enter my office, and I'll answer 'I'm very glad to have you, Mr. March.' Of course we could
arrange for a regular partnership a year or so later. Meanwhile the usual arrangement would
be made. It may be that you know of some very much better office which you would prefer to
go to. If you do, all right. If you don't, come to me. What do you say?"

"But--but what good would I do you?" Joel asked, puzzled at the offer. "I'd like it very much,
of course, but I can't see--"

"I'll tell you, March. I have a good deal of faith in your future, my boy. You have a great
deal of a most valuable thing called application, which I have not, worse luck. You are also
sharp-witted and level-headed to a remarkable degree. And some day, twenty or thirty years
from now, you'll likely be hard-headed, but I'll risk that. By the time you're out of college
I shall be wanting a younger man to take hold with me. There will be plenty of them, but I
shall want a good one. And that is why I make this offer. It is entirely selfish, and you need
not go searching for any philanthropy in it. I'm only looking a bit ahead and buttering my
toast while it's hot, March. What do you say? Or, no, you needn't say anything to-night. Think
it over for a while, and let me know later."

"But I don't want to think it over," answered Joel eagerly. "I'm ready to sign such a partnership
agreement now. If you really believe that I would--could be of use to you, I'd like it mightily.
And I know all about your 'selfishness,' and I'm very grateful to you for--for buttering your
toast."

Later, when they arose and went on, Remsen consented to accompany Joel to his room, bribed
thereto with a promise of hot chocolate. They found Outfield diligently poring over a Greek
history. But he immediately discarded it in favor of a new book on the Royal Game which lay
in his lap hidden under a note book.

"You see," he explained, "old Pratt has taken a shine to me, and I expected him to call this
evening. And I thought at first that you were he--or him--which is it? And of course I didn't
want to disappoint the old gentleman; he has such a fine opinion of me, you know."

While Outfield boiled the water and laid bare the contents of the larder, Joel told him of
Remsen's offer. A box of biscuits went down with a crash, and Outfield turned indignantly.

"That's all very fine," he exclaimed. "But where do I come in? How about Mr. West? Where does
he get his show in this arrangement? You promised that if I studied law, too, Joel, you'd go
into partnership with me. Now, didn't you?"

"But it was all in fun," protested Joel, distressedly. "I didn't suppose you meant it, you know."

"Meant it!" answered Outfield indignantly. "Of course I meant it. Don't you expect I appreciate
level-headedness and sharp-wittedness and applicationousness just as much as Remsen? Why, I
had it all fixed. We were to have an office fitted with cherry railings and revolving bookcases
near--near--"

"A good links?" suggested Remsen smilingly.

"Well, yes," admitted Outfield, "that wouldn't be a half bad idea. But now you two have gone
and spoiled it all."

"Well, I tell you, West," suggested Remsen, "you come in with us and supply the picturesque
element of the business. You might look after the golf cases, you know; injuries to bald-headed
gentlemen by gutties; trespassing by players; forfeiting of leases, and so forth. What do you say?"

"All right," answered Outfield cheerfully. "But it must be understood that the afternoons belong
to the links and not to the law."

So Stephen Remsen and Joel March sealed their agreement by shaking hands, and Outfield grinned
approval.

One afternoon a few days later Outfield pranced into the room just as dusk was falling brandishing
aloft a silver-plated mug, and uttering a series of loud cheers for "Me." Joel, who had returned
but a moment before from a hard afternoon's practice, and was now studying in the window seat
by the waning light, looked languidly curious.

"A trophy, Joel, a trophy from the links!" cried West. "Won by the great Me by two holes from
Jenkins, Jenkins the Previously Great, Jenkins the Defeated and Devastated!" He tossed the
mug into Joel's lap.

"I'm very glad, Out," said the latter. "Won't it help you with the team?"

"It will, my discerning friend. It will send me to New York next month to represent Harwell.
And Lapham says I must go to Lakewood for the open tournament. Oh, little Outie is some pumpkins,
my lad! It was quite the most wonderful young match to-day. Jenkins led all the way to the
fifteenth hole. Then he foozled like a schoolboy, and I holed out in one and went on to the
Cheese Box in two."

"I'm awfully glad," repeated Joel, smiling up into the flushed and triumphant face of his chum.
"If you go to New York it will be after the big game, and, if you like, I'll go with you and
shout." Outfield West executed a war-dance and whooped ecstatically.

"Will you, Joel? Honest Injun? Cross your heart and hope to die? Then shake hands, my lad;
it's a bargain! Now, where's my chemistry?"

The days flew by and the date of the Yates game rapidly approached. The practice was secret
every afternoon, and the coaches lost weight eluding the newspaper reporters. Prince disappointed
Joel by returning to the Varsity with his ankle apparently as well as ever, although he was
generally "played easy," and Joel often took his place in the second half of the practice games.

And at last the Thursday preceding the big game arrived, and the team and substitutes, together
with the trainer and the manager and the head coach and two canine mascots, assembled in the
early morning in the square and were hustled into coaches and driven into town to their train.
And half the college heroically arose phenomenally early and stood in the first snow storm
of the year and cheered and cheered for the team individually and collectively, for the head
coach and the trainer, for the rubbers and the mascots, and, between times, for the college.

The players went to a little country town a few miles distant from the seat of Yates University,
and spent the afternoon in practicing signals on the hotel grounds. The next day, Friday, was
a day of rest, save for running through a few formations and trick plays after lunch and taking
a long walk at dusk. The Yates Glee Club journeyed over in the evening and gave an impromptu
entertainment in the parlor, a courtesy well appreciated by the Harwell team, whose nerves
were now beginning to make themselves felt. And the next morning the journey was continued
and the college town was reached at half past eleven.

The men were welcomed at the station by a crowd of Harwell fellows who had already arrived,
and the Harwell band did its best until the team was driven off to the hotel. There for the
first time the men were allowed to see the line-up for the game. It was a long list, containing
the names, ages, heights, and weights of thirty-six players and substitutes, and was immediately
the center of interest to all.

"Thunder!" growled Joel ruefully, as he finished reading the list over Blair's shoulder, "it's
a thumpin' long ways down to me!"

CHAPTER XXII.

BEFORE THE BATTLE.

"Harwell, Harwell, Harwell!

The lobby grew empty on the instant, and outside on the steps and on the sidewalk the crowd
spread itself. The procession had just turned the corner, the college band leading.

"The freshmen won!" cried a voice on the edge of the throng, and the news was passed along
from man to man until it swept up the steps, through the lobby and to the dining room upstairs
where the football men of the Varsity team were impatiently awaiting lunch. "A good omen,"
said the head coach.

Below in the street admonitory thumps upon the great drum, with its college coat-of-arms on
the head, were heard, and a moment later the shouts of the exuberant freshmen and their allies
were drowned in the first strains of the college song. Off came the silk hats of the frock-coated
graduates and the plaided golf caps of the students, and side by side there in the sun-swept
street they lifted their voices in the sweet, measured strains of the dear familiar hymn. And
stout, placid-faced men of fifty, with comfortable bank accounts and incipient twinges of gout,
felt the unaccustomed dimming of the sight that presages tears, and boyish, carefree students,
to whom the song was as much an everyday affair as D marks and unpaid bills, felt strange stirrings
in their breasts, and with voices that stumbled strangely over the top notes sang louder and
louder. And upstairs in the dining room many a throat grew hard and "lumpy" as the refrain
came in at the open windows.

But, as the trainer muttered presently, it was only the freshmen who had won, and the real
battle of the day was yet to come. And soon the band and the shouting parade wheeled away from
beneath the windows and swung off up the street to make known far and wide the greatness of
Harwell, her freshmen, and the grandeur of their victory over the youngsters of Yates. And,
as the last cheer floated up from the procession as it disappeared around a far corner, lunch
was served, and player and coach, trainer and rubber, substitute and mascot, drew up to the
last meal before--what? Victory or defeat?

It was not a merry repast, that lunch before the fray. Some men could not bring themselves
to eat at all until the coaches commanded with dire threats. Others, as though nothing out
of the ordinary was about to take place, ate heartily, hungrily, of everything set before them.
At the far end of the room Joel March played with his steak and tried to delude himself into
thinking he was eating. He felt rather upset, and weak in the joints, and as for the lad's
stomach it had revolted at sight of the very first egg. But luckily the last meal before a
game has little effect one way or the other upon the partaker, since he is already keyed up,
mentally and physically, to a certain pitch, and nothing short of cold poison can alter it.

In the streets below, for blocks in all directions, the crowds surged up and down, and shouts
for Harwell and yells for Yates arose like challenges in the afternoon air. Friends met who
had not done so for years, enemies accorded enemies bows of recognition ere they remembered
their enmity. The deep blue and the deeper crimson passed and counterpassed, brushed and fluttered
side by side, and lighted up the little college city till it looked like a garden of roses
and violets.

And everywhere, over all, was the tensity that ever reigns before a battle.

The voices of the ticket speculator and of the merchant of "Offish'l Score Cards" were heard
upon every side. The street cars poked their blunt noses through the crowd which closed in
again behind them like water about the stern of a ship. Violets blossomed or crimson chrysanthemums
bloomed upon every coat and wrap, or hung pendant from the handle of cane and umbrella. The
flags of Harwell and Yates, the white H and white Y, were everywhere. Shop windows were partisan
to the blue, but held dashes of crimson as a sop to the demands of hospitality and welcome.

At one o'clock the exodus from town began. Along the road that leads to the football field
hurried the sellers of rush cushions and badges, of score cards and pencils, of blue and crimson
flags and cheap canes, of peanuts and sandwiches, of soda water and sarsaparilla, bent upon
securing advantageous stands about the entrance. A quarter of an hour later the spectators
were on the way. The cars, filled in and out with shouting humanity, crept slowly along, a
bare half block separating them. Roystering students swung arm in arm in eccentric dance from
side to side across the street. Ladies with their escorts hurried along the sidewalks. Carriages,
bright with fluttering flags, rolled by. Bicycles darted in and out, their riders throwing
words of salutation over their shoulders to friends by the way. In the windows along the route
was displayed the bravery of blue banners. A window in a college hall was piled high with great
comfortable-looking pillows, each bearing a great challenging Y in white ribbon or embroidery.
And overhead the sky arched a broad blue expanse from horizon to horizon.

In this manner on some fair morning, centuries ago, did all Greece wend its way to the Stadium
and the Games of Olympia.

In the hotel the lunch was over and that terrible age between it and the arrival of the coaches
was dragging its weary length along. Joel and Blair were standing by the window talking in
voices that tried to be calm, cool and indifferent, but which were neither.

"They're offering bets of ten to nine downstairs that Yates wins," remarked Blair with elaborate
composure.

"Are they?" responded Joel absent-mindedly, thinking the while of the signal for the second
sequence. "I thought the odds were even."

"They were until the news about Chesney's shoulder got about."

"But there isn't really anything the matter with his shoulder, is there?"

"No. No one knows how the story got out. Whipple was taking all he could get a while ago."

"Some one wants to see you at the door, March," called the trainer, and Joel found Outfield
West, smiling and happy, waiting there.

"How are you?" he whispered. "All right? How are the rest? Great Gobble, Joel, but these Yates
Johnnies are so sure of winning that they can't keep still! There's a rumor here in the lobby
that Yates's center is sick. Know anything about it?" Joel shook his head. "Well, I'll see
you out at the field. We're going out now; Cooke, and Caldwell, and some of the others. So
long, my valiant lad. Keep a stiff upper lip and never say die, and all that, you know. Adios!"

There was a cheer below, and Blair, at the window, announced the arrival of the conveyances.
Instantly the lethargy of a minute before was turned to excited bustle and confusion. Pads
and nose-guards, jerseys and coats, balls and satchels were seized and laid aside and grabbed
up again. Cries for missing apparel and paraphernalia were heard on every side, and only a
loud, peremptory command to "Shut up!" from the head coach restored order and quietude. Then
the door was thrown open and down the narrow stairs they trooped, through the crowded lobby
where friends hemmed them about, patting the broad backs, shouting words of cheer into their
ears, and delaying them in their passage.

Into the coaches they hurried, and as the crowd about the hotel burst into loud, ringing cheers,
the whips were cracked and the journey to the field began. The route lay along quiet, unfrequented
streets where only an occasional cheer from a college window met their advent. Restraint had
worn off now, and the fellows were chatting fast and furiously. Joel looked out at the handsome
homes and sunny street, and was aware only of a longing to be in the fray, an impatient desire
to be doing. Briscom, the substitute centre, a youth of twenty-one summers and one hundred
and ninety-eight pounds, sat beside him.

"I was here two years ago with the freshman team," he was saying. "We didn't do a thing to
them, we youngsters, although the Varsity was licked badly. And all during the afternoon game
we sat together and cheered, until at five o'clock I couldn't speak above a whisper. That was
a great game, that freshman contest! It took three hours and a half to settle it. At the beginning
of the second half there were only three men on our team who had played in the first. I was
one of them. I was playing left guard. Story there was another. He gave up before the game
was through, though. I held out and when the whistle sounded, down I went on the grass and
didn't stir for ten minutes. We had two referees that day. The first chap got hurt in a rush,
and it took us half an hour to find a fellow brave enough to take his place. That was a game.
Football's tame nowadays."

Across the coach Rutland, the right guard, a big bronze-haired chap of one hundred and ninety-six,
was deep in a discussion with "Judge" Chase, right end, on an obscure point of ruling.

"If you're making a fair catch and a player on the other side runs against you intentionally
or otherwise, you're interfered with, and the rules give your side fifteen yards," declared
Rutland.

"Not if the interference is accidental and doesn't hurt your catch," replied Chase. "If the
other fellow is running and can't stop in time--"

"Shut up, you fellows," growled Captain Button. "You play the game, and the referee will look
after the rules for you."

"If you go on," said Briscom, "you must be careful about holding. De Farge (the referee) is
awfully down on holding and off-side plays. Last year he penalized us eight times during the
game. But he's all right, just the same. He's the finest little ref that ever tossed a coin."

"I fear I won't get a show," mourned Joel.

"You can't tell," answered Briscom knowingly. "Last year there were two fellows ahead of me
and I got on for twenty minutes of the last half. Trueland bent his ankle, Chesney hurt his
knee, and Condon got whacked on the head. Watch the game every minute of the time, March, and
learn how the Yates halves play the game. Then if you do go on you won't be in the dark."

The coaches rolled up to the players' entrance to the field, and the fellows hopped out and
disappeared into the quarters.

The time was two o'clock. The gates were still thronged, although to the people already on
the stands it was a puzzle where the newcomers were going to find seats. On the east side of
the field Yates held open house. From end to end, and overflowing half way around both north
and south stands, the blue of Yates fluttered in the little afternoon breeze till that portion
of the field looked like a bank of violets.

On the west stand tier after tier of crimson arose until it waved against the limitless blue
of the sky. Countless flags dipped and circled, crimson bonnets gleamed everywhere, and great
bunches of swaying chrysanthemums nodded and becked to each other. All collegedom with its
friends and relations was here; all collegedom, that is, within traveling distance; beyond
that, eager eyes were watching the bulletin boards from Maine to Mojave.

The cheering had begun. Starting at one end of the west stand the slogan sped, section by section,
growing in volume as it went, and causing the crimson flags and banners to dance and leap in
the sunlight. Across the field answering cheers thundered out and the bank of violets trembled
as though a wind ruffled it. In front of the north stand the Yates college band added the martial
strains of The Stars and Stripes Forever to the general pandemonium of enthusiasm.

Then along the west stand a ripple of laughter which grew into a loud cheer traveled, as a
bent and decrepit figure attired in a long black frock coat and high silk hat, the latter banded
with crimson ribbon, came into sight down the field. It was the old fruit seller of Harwell,
whose years are beyond reckoning, and who is remembered by the oldest graduates. On he came,
his old, wrinkled face grimacing in toothless smiles, his ribboned cane waving in his trembling
hand, and his well-nigh bald head bowing a welcome to the watchers. For it was not he who was
the guest, for from time almost immemorial the old fruit seller has presided at the contests
of Harwell, rejoicing in her victories, lamenting over her defeats. Down the line he limped,
while gray-haired graduates and downy-lipped undergrads cheered him loyally, calling his name
over and over, and so back to a seat in the middle of the stand, from where all through the
battle his crimson-bedecked cane waved unceasingly.

He was not the only one welcomed by the throng. A great jurist, chrysanthemumed from collar
to waist, bowed jovial acknowledgment of the applause his appearance summoned. The governor
of a State came too to see once more the crimson of his alma mater clashing with the blue of
her old enemy. Professors, who had put aside their books, beamed benevolently through their
glasses as they walked somewhat embarrassedly past the grinning faces of their pupils. Old
football players, former captains, bygone masters of rowing, commanders of olden baseball teams,
all these and many more were there and were welcomed heartily, tumultuously, by the wearers
of the red. And through it all the cheers went on, the college songs were sung, and the hearts
of youth and age were happy and glad together.

Then the cry of "Here they come!" traveled along the field, and the blue-clad warriors leaped
into the arena at the far end, and the east stand went delirious, and flags waved, and a tempest
shook the bank of violets. Har-well! Har-well!"

For over the fence came the head coach, and big Chesney, and Captain Dutton, Story, the little
quarter-back, and all the others, a long line of crimson-stockinged warriors, with Joel March,
Briscom, Bedford, and the other substitutes flocking along in the tag end of the procession.
Over the field the two Elevens spread, while cheer after cheer met in mid-field, clashed, and
rolled upward to the blue. Then came a bare five minutes of punting, dropping, passing, snapping,
ere the officials appeared from somewhere and gathered the opposing captains to them. A coin
flashed in the sunlight, spun aloft, descended, and was caught in the referee's palm. "Heads!"
cried Ferguson, the Yates captain. "Heads it is!" announced the referee.

The substitutes retreated unwillingly to the side lines, the Harwell men spread themselves
over the north end of the gridiron, Elton, the Yates full-back, ground his heel into the turf
and pointed the ball, the cheering ceased, the whistle piped merrily, the bright new ball soared
aloft on its arching flight, and the game of the year was on.

CHAPTER XXIII.

HARWELL VS. YATES--THE FIRST HALF.

That game will live in history.

It was a battle royal between giant foes. On one hand was the confidence begat of fifteen years
of almost continuous victory over the crimson; on the other the desperation that such defeat
brings. Yates had a proud record to sustain, Harwell a decade of worsting to atone for. And
twenty-five thousand persons watched and hoped and feared as the battle raged.

Down settled the soaring ball into the arms of Kingdon, who tucked it under his arm and started
with it toward the distant goal. But eight yards was all he found ere a Yates forward crashed
down upon him. Then came a quick line-up on Harwell's forty yards, and first Prince, then Kingdon,
then Blair was put through the line, each for a small gain, and the Harwell benches shouted
their triumph. Again the pigskin was given to Prince for a try through the hole between tackle
and guard, but this time he was hurled back for a loss. The next try was Kingdon's, and he
made a yard around the Yates left end. It was the third down and five yards were lacking. Back
went the ball for a kick, and a moment later it was Yates's on her thirty-five yards, and again
the teams were lining up. It was now the turn of the east stand to cheer, and mightily the
shout rolled across the field.

Through came the Yates full, the ball safely stowed in the crook of his elbow, the whole force
of the backs shoving him on. Three yards was his. Another line-up. Again the Yates full-back
was given the ball, and again he gained. And it was the first down on Yates's forty-five-yard
line. Then began a rout in which Harwell retreated and Yates pursued until the leather had
crossed the middle of the field. The gains were made anywhere, everywhere, it seemed. Allardyce
yielded time and again, and Selkirk beside him, lacking the other's support, was thrust aside
almost at will. The Yates shouters were wild with joy, and the cheers of Harwell were drowned
beneath the greater outbursts from the supporters of the blue.

Harwell appeared to be outclassed, so far as her rush line was concerned. Past the fifty-yard
line went the ball, and between it and the next white streak, Harwell at last made a desperate
stand, and secured the ball. At the first play it was sent speeding away from Blair's toe to
the Yates mid-field, a long, clean, high kick, that led the forwards down under it in time
to throw the waiting back ere he had taken a step, and that brought shouts of almost tearful
delight from the Harwell sympathizers. Back to her line-bucking returned Yates, and slowly,
but very surely, the contest moved over the lost ground, back toward the Harwell goal. The
fifty-five-yard line was passed again, the fifty, the forty-five, and here or there holes were
being torn in the Harwell line, and the crimson was going down before the blue. At her forty-yard
line Harwell stayed again for a while the onslaught of the enemy, and tried thrice to make
ground through the Yates line. Then back to the hands of Wilkes went the oval and again the
heart-breaking rout began.

                                  YATES.

                                Full-back
                               ELTON, 184

               Right                               Left
             Half-Back                          Half-Back
           THOMPSON, 153                       CUSHING, 157

                              BIRCH, 140
                             Quarter-back

   Right       Right    Right             Left     Left      Left
    End       Tackle    Guard   Center   Guard    Tackle      End
O'CALLAGHAN, FERGUSON, MORRIS,  WILKES, ALLISON,   GALT,    FRASER,
    163         203      197      204     194       189       150

   Left      Left      Left     Center   Right    Right      Right
    End     Tackle     Guard             Guard    Tackle      End
  DUTTON,  SELKIRK, ALLARDYCE, CHESNEY, RUTLAND, BURBRIDGE,  CHASE,
    150      186       189        229     196       179       156

                             Quarter-back
                              STORY, 144
           PRINCE, 157                          KINGDON, 182
              Left                                 Right
           Half-Back                             Half-Back

                              BLAIR, 179
                               Full-Back

                                HARWELL.

Harwell made her last desperate rally on her twenty-five yards. The ball was thrown to Blair,
who kicked, but not soon enough to get it out of the way of the opposing forwards, who broke
through as the ball rose. It struck against the upstretched hand of the Yates right guard and
bounded toward the crimson's goal. The Yates left half fell upon it. From there, without forfeiting
the ball, Yates crashed down to the goal line, and hurled Elton, her crack full-back, through
at last for a touch-down.

For five minutes chaos reigned upon the east stand. All previous efforts paled into nothingness
beside the outbursts of cheers that followed each other like claps of thunder up and down the
long bank of fluttering color. Upon the other side of the field no rival shouts were heard.
It was useless to try and drown that Niagara of sound. But here and there crimson flags waved
defiantly at the triumphant blue.

The goal was an easy one, though it is probable that it would have been made had it been five
times more difficult; for Elton was the acknowledged goal kicker par excellence of the year.
Then back trotted the teams, and as the Harwell Eleven lined up for the kick-off Allardyce
at left guard gave place to Murdoch. The big fellow had given out and had limped white-faced
and choking from the field.

The whistle sounded and the ball rose into air, corkscrewing toward the Yates goal. Down the
field under it went the Harwell runners like bolts from a bow, and the Yates half who secured
the pigskin was downed where he caught. The two teams lined up quickly. Then back, foot by
foot, yard by yard, went the struggling Harwell men. Yet the retreat was less like a rout than
before, and Yates was having harder work. Her players were twice piled up against the Harwell
center, and she was at last forced to send a blue-clad youth around the left end, an experiment
which netted her twelve yards and which brought the east stand to its feet, yelling like mad.

But here the crimson line at length braced and the ball went to its center on three downs,
and the tide turned for a while. The backs and the right end were hurled, one after another,
at the opposing line, and shouts of joy arose from the crimson seats as gain after gain resulted.
Thrice in quick succession Captain Dutton shot through the left end of the blue's line, the
second time for a gain of five yards.

The cheering along the west side of the great field was now continuous, and the leaders, their
crimson badges fluttering agitatedly, were waving their arms like tireless semaphores and exciting
the supporters of Harwell to greater and greater efforts. Nearer and nearer to the coveted
touch-down crept the crimson line. With clock-work precision the ball was snapped, the quarter
passed, the half leaped forward, the rush line plunged and strove, and then from somewhere
a faint "Down!" was cried; and the panting players staggered to their feet, leaving the ball
yet nearer to the threatened goal line. On the blue's twenty-three yards the whistle shrilled,
and a murmur of dismay crept over the Yates seats as it was seen that Captain Ferguson lay
motionless on the ground. But a moment's rubbing brought him to his feet again.

"He's not much hurt," explained the knowing ones. "He wants to rest a bit."

A minute later, while the ball still hovered about the twenty-yard line, Yates secured it on
a fumbled pass, and the tide ebbed away from the beleagured posts. Back as before were borne
the crimson warriors, while the Yates forwards opened holes in the opposing line and the Yates
halves dashed and wormed through for small gains. Then Fate again aided the crimson, and on
the blue's forty-seven-yard line a fake kick went sadly aglee and the runner was borne struggling
back toward his own goal before he could cry "Down!" And big Chesney grinned gleefully as he
received the leather and bent his broad back above it.

Canes, crysanthemums, umbrellas, flags, carnations, hats, all these and many other things waved
frantically above the great bank of crimson as the little knot of gallant knights in moleskin
crept back over their recent path of retreat and took the war again into the enemy's country.
Every inch of the way was stubbornly contested by the defenders, but slowly they were pushed
back, staggering under the shocks of the crimson's attack. Chesney, Rutland, and Murdoch worked
together, side by side, like one man--or forty!--and when time was called for an instant on
the Yates twenty-five yards it was to bring Galt, the blue's left tackle, back to consciousness
and send him limping off the gridiron. His place in the line was taken by an old Hilltonian,
one Dunsmore, and the game went on.

And now it was the blue that was in full retreat and the crimson that pursued. Nearer and nearer
to the Yates goal line went the resisting besieged and the conquering besiegers, and the great
black score-board announced but eight more minutes of the first half remaining. But even eight
were three more than were needed. For Harwell crossed the twenty yards by tandem on tackle,
gained the fifteen in two downs by wedges between tackle and guard, and from there on until
the much-desired goal line was reached never paused in her breathless, resistless onslaught.
It was Wesley Blair who at last put the ball over for a touch-down, going through between center
and left guard with all the weight of the Harwell Eleven behind him. His smothered "Down!"
was never heard, for the west stand was a swaying, tumultuous unit of thunderous acclaim.

Up went the flags and banners of crimson hues, loud sounded the paean of praise and thanksgiving
from thousands of straining throats, while below on the side lines the coaches leaped for joy
and strained each other to their breasts in unspeakable delight.

And while the shouting went on as though never would the frenzied shouters cease, the grim,
panting Yates players lined up back of their goal line, on tiptoe, ready at the first touch
of the ball to the earth to spring forward and, leaping upward, strive to arrest the speeding
oval. Prone upon the ground, the ball in his hands, lay Story. A yard or two distant Blair
directed the pointing of it. The goal was a most difficult one, from an angle, and long the
full-back studied and directed, until faint groans of derision arose from the impatient east
stand and the men behind the goal line moved restively.

"Lacing to you," said Blair quietly. Story shifted the ball imperceptibly.

"More." The quarter-back obeyed.

"Cock it." Higher went the end toward the goal.

"Not so much." It was lowered carefully, slowly.

"Steady." Blair stepped back, glanced once swiftly at the cross-bar, and stepped forward again.

"Down!" Story's left hand touched the grass, the Yates men surged forward, there was a thud, and--

Upward sped the ball, rising, rising, until it topped the bar, then slowly turning over, over
in its quickening descent. But the nearly silent west stand had broke again into loud cries
of triumph, and upon the face of the Scoreboard appeared the momentous word, "GOAL!"

Again the ball was put in play, but the half was soon over and the players, snatching their
blankets, trotted to the dressing rooms. And the score-board announced:

"Opponents, 6. Yates, 6."

As the little swinging door closed behind him Joel found himself in a seething mass of players,
rubbers, and coaches, while a babel of voices, greetings, commands, laughter, and lament, confused
him. It was a busy scene. The trainer and his assistants were working like mad. The doctor
and the head coach were talking twenty to the second. Everybody was explaining everything,
and the indefatigable coaches were hurrying from man to man, instructing, reminding, and scolding.

Joel had only to look on, save when he lent a hand at removing some torn and stubborn jersey,
or at finding lost shin-guards and nose masks, and so he found a seat out of the way, and,
searching the room with his gaze, at length found Prince. That gentleman was having a nice,
new pink elastic bandage put about his ankle. He was grinning sturdily, but at every clutch
of the web his lips twitched and his brow puckered. Joel watching him wondered how much more
he would stand, and whether his (Joel's) chance would come ere the fatal whistle piped the
end of the match.

"Time's up!" cried the head coach suddenly, and the confusion redoubled until he mounted to
a bench and clapped his hands loudly above the din. Comparative silence ensued. "Fellows,"
he began, "here's the list for the next half. Answer to your names, please. And go over to
the door. Fellows, you'll have to make less noise. Dutton, Selkirk, Murdoch--Murdoch?"

"Right!" The voice emerged from the folds of a woolen sweater which had stubbornly refused
to go on or off. With a smile the head coach continued the list, each man responding as his
name was announced and crowding to the doorway.

"Chesney, Rutland, Burbridge, Barton--"

A murmur arose from the listening throng, and Chase, a tall, pale-faced youth, his cheek exhibiting
the marks of a contact with some one's shoe cleats, groaned loudly and flung himself on to
a bench, where he sat looking blindly before him until the list was finished.

"Story, Prince--"

"Here!" called the latter, jumping from his seat. Then a sharp, agonized cry followed, and
Prince toppled over, clutching vainly at the air. The head coach paused. The doctor and the
trainer pushed toward the fallen man, and a moment later the former announced quietly:

"He's fainted, sir."

"Can he go on?" asked the head coach.

"He is out of the question. Ankle's too painful. I couldn't allow it."

"Very well," answered the other as he amended the list. "Kingdon, Blair, March."

Joel's heart leaped as he heard his name pronounced, and he tried to answer.

"March?" demanded the head coach impatiently; and

"Here, sir!" gulped Joel, rushing to the door.

"All right," continued the head coach. "There isn't time for any fine phrases, fellows, and
if there was I couldn't say them so that they'd do any good. You know what you've got to do.
Go ahead and do it. You have the chance of wiping out a good many defeats, more than it's pleasant
to think about. The college expects a great deal from you. Don't disappoint it. Play hard and
play together. Don't give an inch; die first. Tackle low, run high, and keep your eyes on the
ball! And now, fellows, three times three for Harwell!"

And what a cheer that was! The little building shook, the men stood on their toes; the head
coach cheered himself off the bench; and Joel yelled so desperately that his breath gave out
at the last "Rah!" and didn't come back until the little door was burst open and he found himself
leaping the fence into the gridiron.

And what a burst of sound greeted their reappearance! The west stand shook from end to end.
Crimson banners broke out on the breeze, every one was on his feet, hats waved, umbrellas clashed,
canes swirled. A youth in a plaid ulster went purple in the face at the small end of a five-foot
horn; and for all the sound it seemed to make it might as well have been a penny whistle. The
ushers waved their arms, but to no purpose, since the seats heeded them not at all, but shouted
as their hearts dictated and as their throats and lungs allowed.

Joel, gazing about him from the field, felt a shiver of emotion pass through him. They were
cheering him! He was one of the little band in honor of which the flags waved, the voices shouted,
and the songs were sung! He felt a lump growing in his throat, and to keep down the tears that
for some reason were creeping into his eyes, he let drive at a ball that came bumping toward
him and kicked it so hard that Selkirk had to chase it half down the field. Harwell! Harwell!

The leaders of the cheering had again gotten control of their sections, and the long, deliberate
cheer, majestic in its intensity of sound, crashed across the space, rebounded from the opposite
stand, and went echoing upward into the clear afternoon air.

"Harwell!" muttered Joel. "You Bet!" Then he gathered with the others about Dutton to listen
to that leader's last instructions. And at the same moment the east stand broke into cheers
as the gallant sons of Yates bounded on to the grass. Back and forth rolled the mighty torrents
of sound, meeting in midair, breaking and crashing back in fainter reverberations. They were
singing the college songs now, and the merits and virtues of both colleges were being chanted
defiantly to the tunes of popular airs. Thousands of feet "tramp-tramped," keeping time against
the stands. The Yates band and the Harwell band were striving, from opposite ends of the field,
to drown each other's strains. And the blue and crimson fluttered and waved, the sun sank lower
toward the western horizon, and the shadows crept along the ground.

"There will be just one more score," predicted the knowing ones as they buttoned their ulsters
and overcoats up at the throat and crouched along the side lines, like so many toads. "But
who will make it I'm blessed if I know!" 

2. That before any person or persons shall be licensed to retail vinous or spirituous liquors
within this city, he, she, or they shall produce before the board of mayor and council of said city
the written recommendation of five freeholders of his or her neighborhood, setting forth that
he or she is of good reputation and a suitable person to receive
such license.

SEC. 3.

SEC. 4. That the bonds provided for in this ordinance shall
be submitted to, and approved by, the board of mayor and council before
said license shall be issued. There was no reply. Only here and there a foot moved
uneasily as weights were thrown forward, and there was a general, almost imperceptible, tightening
of nerves and muscles.

And then the whistle blew.

CHAPTER XXIV.

HARWELL VS. YATES--A FAULT AND A REQUITAL.

The kick-off came into Blair's ready arms, the interference formed quickly, and the full-back
sped down the field. One white line passed under foot--another; Joel felt Blair's hand laid
lightly upon his shoulder, and ran as though life itself depended upon getting that precious
ball past the third mark. But the Yates ends were upon them. Joel gave the shoulder to one,
but the second dived through Kingdon, and the runner came to earth on the twenty-three-yard
line, with Joel tugging at him in the hope of advancing the pigskin another foot.

"Line up quickly, fellows!" called Story. The players jumped to their places. "1--9--9!" Joel
crept back a bare yard. "1--9--9!"

Kingdon leaped forward, snugged the ball under his arm, and followed by Joel tried to find
a hole inside left end. But the hole was not there, and the ball was instantly in the center
of a pushing, grinding mass. "Down!" No gain.

Story, worming his way through the jumble, clapped his hands. Chesney was already stooping
over the ball. Joel ran to his position, and the quarter threw a rapid glance behind him.

"2--8--9!" He placed his hand on the center's broad back.

"2--8--!" The ball was snapped. Joel darted toward the center, took the leather at a hand pass,
crushed it against the pit of his stomach, and followed the left end through a breach in the
living wall. Strong hands pushed him on. Then he came bang! against a huge shoulder, was seized
by the Yates right half, and thrown. He hugged the ball as the players crashed down upon him.

"Third down," called the referee. "Three yards to gain."

"Line up, fellows, line up!" called the impatient Story, and Joel jumped to his feet, upsetting
the last man in the pile-up, and scurried back.

"2--9--9!"

"2--9--!" Back sped Blair. Up ran Joel and Kingdon. The line blocked desperately. A streak
of brown flew by, and a moment later Joel heard the thud as the full-back's shoe struck the
ball. Then down the field he sped, through the great gap made by the Yates forwards. The Harwell
ends were well under the kick and stood waiting grimly beside the Yates full-back as the ball
settled to earth. As it thudded against his canvas jacket and as he started to run three pairs
of arms closed about him, and he went down in his tracks. The ball lay on Yates's fifty-three-yard
line.

The field streamed up. The big Yates center took the ball. Joel crept up behind the line, his
hands on the broad canvas-covered forms in front, dodging back and forth behind Murdoch and
Selkirk. "26--57--38--19--!" The, opposing left half started across, took the ball, and then--why,
then Joel was at the very bottom of some seven hundred pounds of writhing humanity, trying
his best to get his breath, and wondering where the ball was!

"Second down. Three and a half yards to gain."

Again the lines faced. Joel was crouched close to quarter, obeying that player's gesture. They
were going to try Murdoch again. Joel heard the breathless tones of the Yates quarter as he
stooped behind the opposing line.

"A tandem on guard," whispered Joel to himself. The next moment there was a crash, the man
in front of him gave; then Joel and Story, gripping the turf with their toes, braced hard;
there was a moment of heaving, panting suspense; then a smothered voice cried "Down!"

"Third down," cried the referee. "Three and a half yards to gain."

"Look out for a fake kick," muttered Story, as Joel fell back. The opposing line was quickly
formed, and again the signal was given. The rush line heaved, Joel sprang into the air, settling
with a crash against the shoulders of Chesney and Murdoch, who went forward, carrying the defense
before them. But the ball was passed, and even as the Yates line broke the thud of leather
against leather was heard. Joel scrambled to his feet, assisted by Chesney, and streaked up
the field. The ball was overhead, describing a high, short arch. Blair was awaiting it, and
Kingdon was behind and to the right of him. Down it came, out shot Blair's hands, and catching
it like a baseball he was off at a jump, Kingdon beside him. Joel swung about, gave a shoulder
to an oncoming blue-clad rusher, ran slowly until the two backs were hard behind him, and then
dashed on.

Surely there was no way through that crowded field. Yet even as he studied his path a pair
of blue stockings went into the air, and a threatening obstacle was out of the way, bowled
over by a Harwell forward. The ends were now scouting ahead of the runners, engaging the enemy.
The fifty-five-yard line was traversed at an angle near the east side of the field, and Joel
saw the touch line growing instantly more imminent. But a waiting Yates man, crouchingly running
up the line, was successfully passed, and the trio bore farther infield, putting ten more precious
yards behind them.

The west stand was wild with exultant excitement, and Joel found himself speeding onward in
time with the rhythmic sway of the deep "Rah-rah-rah!" that boomed across from the farther
side. But the enemy was fast closing in about them. The Yates right half was plunging down
from the long side, a pertinacious forward was almost at their heels. Nor is this the only miracle
connected with the church. The monkish historians descant with florid eloquence upon the white
stag, which pointed out to Duke Ansegirus the spot where the edifice was to be erected; the mystic
knife, inscribed "in nomine sanctæ et individuæ trinitatis," thus declaring to whom the building
should be dedicated; and the roof, which, though prepared for a distant edifice, felt that
it would be best at Fécamp, and actually, of its own accord, undertook
a voyage by sea, and landed, without the displacing of a single nail,
upon the sea-coast near the town.

All these contes dévots, and many others, you will find recorded in the Neustria Pia [31]. I will
only detain you with a few words more upon the subject of the precious blood, a matter too important
to be thus hastily dismissed. It was placed here by Duke Richard I.; but was lost in the course
of a long and turbulent period, and was not found again till the
year 1171, when it was discovered within the substance of a column
built in the wall.

Two little tubes of lead originally contained the treasure; but these were soon inclosed in
two others of a more precious metal, and the whole was laid at the bottom of a box of gilt silver,
placed in a beautiful pyramidical shrine.

Thus protected, it was, before the revolution, fastened to one of
the pillars of the choir, behind a trellis-work of copper, and was
an object of general adoration. Then he forgot all about it,
for Harwell was hammering the blue's line desperately and Joel had all he could do to remember
the signals and play his position.

For the next quarter of an hour the ball hovered about Yates's danger territory. Twice, by
the hardest kind of line bucking, it was placed within the ten-yard line, and twice, by the
grimmest, most desperate resistance, it was lost on downs and sent hurtling back to near mid-field.
But Yates was on the defensive, even when the oval was in her possession, and Harwell experienced
the pleasurable--and, in truth, unaccustomed--exultation that comes with the assurance of superiority.
Harwell's greatest ground-gaining plays now were the two sequences from ordinary formation
and full-back forward. These were used over and over, ever securing territory, and ever puzzling
the opponents.

Joel was hard worked. He was used not only to wriggle around the line inside of ends and to
squirm through difficult outlets, but to charge the line as well, a feat of which his height
and strong legs rendered him well capable. He proved a consistant ground-gainer, and with Blair,
who worked like a hero, and Kingdon, who won laurels for himself that remained fresh many years,
gained the distance time and again. But although the spectacular performances belonged here
to the backs, the line it was that made such work possible. Chesney, with his six feet four
and a half inches of muscle, and his two hundred and twenty-nine pounds of weight, stood like
a veritable Gibraltar of strength. Beside him Rutland was scarcely less invulnerable, and Murdoch,
on the other side, played like a veteran, which he was not, being only a nineteen-year-old
sophomore, with but one hundred and sixty-seven pounds to keep him from blowing away.

Selkirk gave way to Lee when the half was two thirds over, but Burbridge played it out, and
then owned up to a broken shoulder bone, and was severely lectured by the trainer, the head
coach, and the doctor in turn; and worshiped by the whole college. Captain Dutton played a
dashing, brilliant game at left end, and secured for himself a re-election that held no dissenting
vote. And Barton, at the other end of the red line, tried his best to fill the place of the
deposed Chase, and if he did not fully succeed, at least failed not from want of trying. But
it was little Story, the quarter-back, who won unfading glory. A mass of nerves, from his head
down, his brain was as clear and cool as the farthest goal post, and he ran the team in a manner
that made the coaches, hopping and scrambling along on the side lines, hug themselves and each
other in glee. So much for the Harwell men.

As for Yates, what words are eloquent enough to do justice to the heroic, determined defense
she made there under the shadow of her own goal, when defeat seemed every moment waiting to
overwhelm her? Every man in that blue-clad line and back of it was a hero, the kind that history
loves to tell of. The right guard, Morris, was a pitiable sight as, with white, drawn face,
he stood up under the terrific assault, staggering, with half-closed eyes, to hold the line.
Joel was heartily glad when, presently, he fell up against the big Yates center after a fierce
attack at his position, and was supported, half fainting, from the field. The substitute was
a lighter man, as the next try at his position showed, and the gains through the guard-tackle
hole still went on. Yates's team now held four substitutes, although with the exception of
Douglas, the substitute right-guard, none of them was perceptibly inferior to the men whose
places they took.

The cheering from the Harwell seats was now continuous, and the refrain of "Glory, glory for
the Crimson!" was repeated over and over. On the east stand the Yates supporters were neither
hopeless nor silent. Their cheers were given with a will and encouraged their gallant warriors
to renewed and ever more desperate defense. The score-board proclaimed the game almost done.
With six minutes left it only remained, as it seemed, for Yates to hold the plunging crimson
once more at the last ditch to keep the game a tie, and so win what would, under the circumstances,
have been as good as a victory.

Down came the Harwell line once more to the twenty yards, but here they stopped. For on a pass
from quarter to left half, the latter, one Joel March of our acquaintance, fumbled the ball,
dived quickly after it, and landed on the Yates left guard, who had plunged through and now
lay with the pigskin safe beneath him!

It is difficult to either describe or appreciate the full depth of Joel's agony as he picked
himself up and limped back to his place. It was a heart-tearing, blinding sensation that left
him weak and limp. But there was nothing for it save to go on and try to retrieve his fatal
error. The white face of Story turned toward him, and Joel read in the brief glance no anger,
only an almost tearful grief. He swung upon his heel with a muttered word that sounded ill
from his lips. But he was only a boy and the provocation was great; let us not remember it
against him.

The Yates center threw back the ball for a kick, and Joel went down the field after it. As
he ran he wondered if Story would try him again. It seemed doubtful, but if he did--Joel ground
his teeth--he would take it through the line! They would see! Just give him one chance to retrieve
that fumble! A year later and he had learned that a misplay, even though it lose the game for
your side, may in time be lived down. But now that knowledge was not his, and a heart-rending
picture of disgrace before the whole college presented itself to him.

Then Blair had the ball, was off, was tackled near the side line under the Yates stand, and
the two teams were quickly lined up again. The cheers from the friends of the blue were so
loud that the quarter's voice giving the signal was scarcely to be heard. Joel crept nearer.
Then his heart leaped up into his throat and stood still.

"7--1--2!"

There was no mistake! It was left half's ball on a double pass for a run around right end!
The line-up was within eight yards of the east side line. The play was the third of the second
sequence, in which Joel with the other backs had been well instructed, and its chance of success
lay in the fact that it had the appearance of a full-back punt or a run around the long side
of the field. Joel leaned forward, facing the left end. Blair crept a few feet in.

"7--1--!" began the quarter.

The ball was snapped, Blair ran three strides nearer, the quarter turned, and the pigskin flew
back. Joel started like a shot, seized the ball from the full-back's outstretched hands, and
sped toward the right end of the line. The right half crossed in front of him, the right end
and tackle thrust back their opponents, the left tackle and guard blocked hard and long. Blair
helped the right half in his diversion at the left end, and Joel, with Dutton interfering and
Blair a stride behind, swept around the end.

The only danger was in being forced over the touch line, but the play worked well, and the
opposing tackle seemed anchored. The Yates end, from his place back of the line, leaped at
them, but was upset by Dutton, and the two went down together. The opposing left half bore
down upon Joel and Blair, the latter speeding along at the runner's side, and came at them
with outstretched arms. Another moment and Joel was alone. Story and the half were just a mass
of waving legs and arms many yards behind.

Joy was the supreme sensation in Joel's breast. Only the Yates full-back threatened, the ball
was safely clutched in his right arm, his breath came easily, his legs were strong, and the
goal-posts loomed far down the field and beckoned him on. This, he thought exultingly, was
the best moment that life could give him.

Behind, although he could not hear it for the din of shouting from the Harwell stand, he knew
the pursuit to be in full cry. He edged farther out from the dangerous touch line and sped
on. The Yates full-back had been deceived by the play and had gone far up the field for a kick,
and now down he came, and Joel found a chill creeping over him as he remembered the player's
wide reputation. He was the finest full-back, so report had it, of the year. And of a sudden
Joel found his breath growing labored, and his long legs began to ache and seemed stiffening
at the thighs and knees. But he only ran the faster and prepared for the threatened tackle.
Harwell hearts sank, for the crimson-clad runner appeared to waver, to be slowing down. Suddenly,
when only his own length separated him from his prey, the Yates full-back left the ground and,
like a swimmer diving into the sea, dove for the hesitating runner.

There was but one thing that day more beautiful to see than that fearless attempt to tackle;
and that one thing was the leap high into the air that the Harwell left half made just in the
nick of time, clearing the tackler, barely avoiding a fall, and again running free with the
ball still safe!

The Yates player quickly recovered and took up the chase, and the momentary pause had served
to bring the foremost of the other pursuers almost to Joel's heels. And now began a contest
that will ever live in the memories of those who witnessed it.

Panting, weary, his legs aching at every bound, his throat parching with the hot breath, Joel
struggled on. Joy had given place to fear and desperation. Time and again he choked down the
over-ready sobs. Behind him sounded the thud of relentless feet. He dared not look back lest
he stumble. Every second he expected to feel the clutch of the enemy. Every second he thought
that now he must give up. But recollection of that fumble crushed down each time the inclination
to yield, and one after another the nearly obliterated lines passed under foot. He gave up
trying to breathe; it was too hard. His head was swimming and his lungs seemed bursting.

Then his wandering faculties rushed back at a bound as he felt a touch, just the lightest fingering,
on his shoulder, and gathering all his remaining strength he increased his pace for a few steps,
and the hand was gone. And the ten-yard line passed, slowly, reluctantly.

"One more," he thought, "one more!"

The great stands were hoarse with shouting; for here ended the game. The figures on the score-board
had changed since the last play, and now relentlessly proclaimed one minute left!

Nearer and nearer crept the five-yard line, nearer and nearer crept the pursuing full-back.
Then, and at the same instant, the scattered breadth of lime was gone, and a hand clutched
at the canvas jacket of the Harwell runner. Once more Joel called upon his strength and tried
to draw away, but it was no use. And with the goal line but four yards distant, stout arms
were clasped tightly about his waist.

One--two--three strides he made. The goal line writhed before his dizzy sight. Relentlessly
the clutching grasp fastened tighter and tighter about him like steel bands, and settled lower
and lower until his legs were clasped and he could move no farther! Despairingly he thrust
the ball out at arms' length and tried to throw himself forward; the trampled turf rose to
meet him....

       *       *       *       *       *

"The ball is over!" pronounced the referee. It was a nice decision, for an inch would have
made a world of difference; but it has never been disputed.

Then Dutton leaped into the air, waving his arms, Rutland turned a somersault, and the west
stand arose as one man and went mad with delight. Hats and cushions soared into air, the great
structure shook and trembled from end to end, and the last few golden rays of the setting sun
glorified the waving, fluttering bank of triumphant crimson!

CHAPTER XXV.

THE RETURN.

"Boom! Boom!" thundered the big drum.

"Tootle-toot!" shrilled the fife.

"Tarum! Taroom!" growled the horns.

The Harwell band marched through the archway and defiled on to the platform. The college marched
after. But he, having plighted his troth to Adeliza, widow to{ 453} King Henry I. of England, refused
her. In revenge for this refusal, the queen of France inveigled him into a den in the garden, where
was a fierce lion.

Being in this danger, he rolled his mantle about his arm, and putting his hand into the mouth
of the beast, pulled out his tongue by the root; followed the queen
to her palace, and gave it to one of her maids to present to her.

Returning to England with the fame of this glorious exploit, he was forthwith advanced to the
earldom of Arundel, and for his arms the lion given him.

Amongst the many illustrations in Dr. Barrett's book is the seal of
this William de Albini, representing a knight on horseback, in the
usual style of such knightly seals; but in front of the knight is
a young lion, and under the feet of the horse some sort of animal
of the lizard kind.

     
      
      In elucidation of this seal, there
        is a long and elaborate note, with remarks by Mr. Hawkins of the
British Museum, with a view of showing that the device on this seal
alludes to the story of his combat with the lion.

The attempt to establish this point appears to me amusing; for there seems nothing on the face
of the seal different from the usual seals of royal and knightly
rank in ancient times.

I should like to learn from some of your correspondents, whether this Psalm, or this portion of
it, was used in the solemnities attendant on the installation of a knight, which would tend
much to confirm my conjecture.

SENEX.***** FORMS OF JUDICIAL OATH.

The forms of an oath are different among different denominations
of Christians.

The Roman Catholics of the Continent swear by raising the hand; the
Scotch Presbyterians follow the same practice.

The Protestants of the Church of England are sworn on the Gospels;
so also are the Irish Roman Catholics.

The Quakers reject every form of oath, and confine themselves to a simple affirmation. Upon these
points I beg leave to submit the following Queries. 1. What form of judicial oath was first sanctioned
by the professors of Christianity as a body? It is stated in Haydn's Dictionary of Dates, that
"oaths were taken on the Gospels so early as A. D. 528." How were
they taken before then?

2. Did the practice of swearing on the Gospels prevail in England before the Reformation? If not,
at what period was it introduced? 3. When was that form of oath first adopted by the Irish;
and was its adoption a voluntary proceeding on their part, or enforced
by legislative enactment?

4. Was the practice of raising the hand in use in Scotland before
the Reformation? 5.

At
what period was the latter form adopted by the Continental Christians,
in lieu of the more solemn oath on the Gospels? 6. Are there now, or have
there been at any former period, any forms of judicial oath in use
among Christians, other than the forms above mentioned?

HENRY H. BREEN. St. Lucia.***** Minor Queries.

"Out of the way there!" cried Joel's bearers, and the marching throng looked about, moved apart,
and as Joel was borne through, cheered him to the echo, reaching eager hands toward him, crying
words of commendation and praise into his buzzing ears.

"One!" shrieked a youth near where Joel soon found himself at the head of the procession, and
the slogan was taken up:

"Two! Three! Four! Five! Six! Seven! Eight! Nine! Ten! E-lev-en!"

"Now give me your hand, Joel!" cried the youth upon whose left shoulder he was swaying. Joel
obeyed, smiling affectionately down into the upraised face. Then he uttered a cry of pain.
One of the fingers of his left hand was bandaged, and Outfield West dropped it gingerly.

"Not--not broke?" he asked wonderingly. Joel nodded.

"Aren't you proud of it?" whispered his chum.

"Yes," answered Joel simply and earnestly.

"May I take it, too?" asked the other youth. Joel started and looked down into the anxious
and entreating face of Bartlett Cloud. He grasped the hesitating hand that was held up.

"Yes," he answered smilingly.

And the big drum boomed, and the shrill fifes tootled, and the crimson banners waved upon the
breeze, and every one cheered himself hoarse, and thus the conquering heroes came back to the
college that loved them.

And Joel, a little tearful when no one was looking, and very happy always, was borne on the
shoulders of West and Cloud, friend and enemy, at the very head of the procession, honored
above all!

