'I didn't do it; upon my soul I didn't do it; and I tried to keep HIM from doing it; I did,
as God is my witness. He did it alone.'

This was all I wanted.  And I tried to get rid of the fool; but no, he clung to me, imploring
me to save him from the assassin.  He said--

'I have money--ten thousand dollars--hid away, the fruit of loot and thievery; save me--tell
me what to do, and you shall have it, every penny.  Two-thirds of it is my cousin Adler's;
but you can take it all. We hid it when we first came here. But I hid it in a new place yesterday,
and have not told him--shall not tell him.  I was going to desert, and get away with it all.
It is gold, and too heavy to carry when one is running and dodging; but a woman who has been
gone over the river two days to prepare my way for me is going to follow me with it; and if
I got no chance to describe the hiding-place to her I was going to slip my silver watch into
her hand, or send it to her, and she would understand. There's a piece of paper in the back
of the case, which tells it all. Here, take the watch--tell me what to do!'

He was trying to press his watch upon me, and was exposing the paper and explaining it to me,
when Adler appeared on the scene, about a dozen yards away.  I said to poor Kruger--

'Put up your watch, I don't want it.  You shan't come to any harm.  Go, now; I must tell Adler
his fortune. Presently I will tell you how to escape the assassin; meantime I shall have to
examine your thumbmark again. Say nothing to Adler about this thing--say nothing to anybody.'

He went away filled with fright and gratitude, poor devil. I told Adler a long fortune--purposely
so long that I could not finish it; promised to come to him on guard, that night, and tell
him the really important part of it--the tragical part of it, I said--so must be out of reach
of eavesdroppers. They always kept a picket-watch outside the town--mere discipline and ceremony--no
occasion for it, no enemy around.

Toward midnight I set out, equipped with the countersign, and picked my way toward the lonely
region where Adler was to keep his watch.  It was so dark that I stumbled right on a dim figure
almost before I could get out a protecting word. The sentinel hailed and I answered, both at
the same moment. I added, 'It's only me--the fortune-teller.' Then I slipped to the poor devil's
side, and without a word I drove my dirk into his heart! YA WOHL, laughed I, it WAS the tragedy
part of his fortune, indeed! As he fell from his horse, he clutched at me, and my blue goggles
remained in his hand; and away plunged the beast dragging him, with his foot in the stirrup.

I fled through the woods, and made good my escape, leaving the accusing goggles behind me in
that dead man's hand.

This was fifteen or sixteen years ago.  Since then I have wandered aimlessly about the earth,
sometimes at work, sometimes idle; sometimes with money, sometimes with none; but always tired
of life, and wishing it was done, for my mission here was finished, with the act of that night;
and the only pleasure, solace, satisfaction I had, in all those tedious years, was in the daily
reflection, 'I have killed him!'

Four years ago, my health began to fail.  I had wandered into Munich, in my purposeless way.
Being out of money, I sought work, and got it; did my duty faithfully about a year, and was
then given the berth of night watchman yonder in that dead-house which you visited lately.
The place suited my mood.  I liked it. I liked being with the dead--liked being alone with
them. I used to wander among those rigid corpses, and peer into their austere faces, by the
hour.  The later the time, the more impressive it was; I preferred the late time. Sometimes
I turned the lights low:  this gave perspective, you see; and the imagination could play; always,
the dim receding ranks of the dead inspired one with weird and fascinating fancies. Two years
ago--I had been there a year then--I was sitting all alone in the watch-room, one gusty winter's
night, chilled, numb, comfortless; drowsing gradually into unconsciousness; the sobbing of
the wind and the slamming of distant shutters falling fainter and fainter upon my dulling ear
each moment, when sharp and suddenly that dead-bell rang out a blood-curdling alarum over my
head! The shock of it nearly paralyzed me; for it was the first time I had ever heard it.

I gathered myself together and flew to the corpse-room. About midway down the outside rank,
a shrouded figure was sitting upright, wagging its head slowly from one side to the other--a
grisly spectacle! Its side was toward me.  I hurried to it and peered into its face. Heavens,
it was Adler!

Can you divine what my first thought was?  Put into words, it was this: 'It seems, then, you
escaped me once: there will be a different result this time!'

Evidently this creature was suffering unimaginable terrors. Think what it must have been to
wake up in the midst of that voiceless hush, and, look out over that grim congregation of the
dead!  What gratitude shone in his skinny white face when he saw a living form before him!
And how the fervency of this mute gratitude was augmented when his eyes fell upon the life-giving
cordials which I carried in my hands! Then imagine the horror which came into this pinched
face when I put the cordials behind me, and said mockingly--

'Speak up, Franz Adler--call upon these dead.  Doubtless they will listen and have pity; but
here there is none else that will.'

He tried to speak, but that part of the shroud which bound his jaws, held firm and would not
let him.  He tried to lift imploring hands, but they were crossed upon his breast and tied.
I said--

'Shout, Franz Adler; make the sleepers in the distant streets hear you and bring help.  Shout--and
lose no time, for there is little to lose. What, you cannot?  That is a pity; but it is no
matter--it does not always bring help. When you and your cousin murdered a helpless woman and
child in a cabin in Arkansas--my wife, it was, and my child!--they shrieked for help, you remember;
but it did no good; you remember that it did no good, is it not so?  Your teeth chatter--then
why cannot you shout?  Loosen the bandages with your hands--then you can.  Ah, I see-- your
hands are tied, they cannot aid you. How strangely things repeat themselves, after long years;
for MY hands were tied, that night, you remember?  Yes, tied much as yours are now--how odd
that is.  I could not pull free. It did not occur to you to untie me; it does not occur to
me to untie you.  Sh--! there's a late footstep. It is coming this way. Hark, how near it is!
One can count the footfalls--one--two--three. There--it is just outside. Now is the time! 
Shout, man, shout!--it is the one sole chance between you and eternity!  Ah, you see you have
delayed too long--it is gone by.  There--it is dying out.  It is gone! Think of it--reflect
upon it--you have heard a human footstep for the last time. How curious it must be, to listen
to so common a sound as that, and know that one will never hear the fellow to it again.'

Oh, my friend, the agony in that shrouded face was ecstasy to see! I thought of a new torture,
and applied it--assisting myself with a trifle of lying invention--

'That poor Kruger tried to save my wife and child, and I did him a grateful good turn for it
when the time came. I persuaded him to rob you; and I and a woman helped him to desert, and
got him away in safety.'  A look as of surprise and triumph shone out dimly through the anguish
in my victim's face. I was disturbed, disquieted.  I said--

'What, then--didn't he escape?'

A negative shake of the head.

'No?  What happened, then?'

The satisfaction in the shrouded face was still plainer. The man tried to mumble out some words--could
not succeed; tried to express something with his obstructed hands--failed; paused a moment,
then feebly tilted his head, in a meaning way, toward the corpse that lay nearest him.

'Dead?'  I asked.  'Failed to escape?--caught in the act and shot?'

Negative shake of the head.

'How, then?'

Again the man tried to do something with his hands.  I watched closely, but could not guess
the intent.  I bent over and watched still more intently. He had twisted a thumb around and
was weakly punching at his breast with it. 'Ah--stabbed, do you mean?'

Affirmative nod, accompanied by a spectral smile of such peculiar devilishness, that it struck
an awakening light through my dull brain, and I cried--

'Did I stab him, mistaking him for you?--for that stroke was meant for none but you.'

The affirmative nod of the re-dying rascal was as joyous as his failing strength was able to
put into its expression.

'O, miserable, miserable me, to slaughter the pitying soul that, stood a friend to my darlings
when they were helpless, and would have saved them if he could! miserable, oh, miserable, miserable
me!'

I fancied I heard the muffled gurgle of a, mocking laugh. I took my face out of my hands, and
saw my enemy sinking back upon his inclined board.

He was a satisfactory long time dying.  He had a wonderful vitality, an astonishing constitution.
Yes, he was a pleasant long time at it. I got a chair and a newspaper, and sat down by him
and read. Occasionally I took a sip of brandy.  This was necessary, on account of the cold.
But I did it partly because I saw, that along at first, whenever I reached for the bottle,
he thought I was going to give him some.  I read aloud: mainly imaginary accounts of people
snatched from the grave's threshold and restored to life and vigor by a few spoonsful of liquor
and a warm bath. But, though her meaning did not as there'flash upon him, he knew that she spoke
in kindness, and that she would not ask anything which he would not
wish to Cleotos; and it drew the proper parchment from then his tunic,
and handed it to her.'i inquire it because, when you are yet, i shall
need some memory of what have been happy days, and because i may beneath
often wish everything to same words of comfort to my those spirit.

You can make another copy of the a, and, in own land, i doubt not, it can find, with stained
search, many same words of equal value.''for my own land?'burst grant
repeated, ed, as in a dream.'i ask it not as mistress, and as friend,'she
said, reading his thoughts.



After that night, I was confined to my bed for a week; but as soon as I could get about, I
went to the dead-house books and got the number of the house which Adler had died in. A wretched
lodging-house, it was.  It was my idea that he would naturally have gotten hold of Kruger's
effects, being his cousin; and I wanted to get Kruger's watch, if I could.  But while I was
sick, Adler's things had been sold and scattered, all except a few old letters, and some odds
and ends of no value.  However, through those letters, I traced out a son of Kruger's, the
only relative left. He is a man of thirty now, a shoemaker by trade, and living at No. 14 Konigstrasse,
Mannheim--widower, with several small children. Without explaining to him why, I have furnished
two-thirds of his support, ever since.

Now, as to that watch--see how strangely things happen! I traced it around and about Germany
for more than a year, at considerable cost in money and vexation; and at last I got it. Got
it, and was unspeakably glad; opened it, and found nothing in it!  Why, I might have known
that that bit of paper was not going to stay there all this time.  Of course I gave up that
ten thousand dollars then; gave it up, and dropped it out of my mind: and most sorrowfully,
for I had wanted it for Kruger's son.

Last night, when I consented at last that I must die, I began to make ready.  I proceeded to
burn all useless papers; and sure enough, from a batch of Adler's, not previously examined
with thoroughness, out dropped that long-desired scrap!  I recognized it in a moment. Here
it is--I will translate it:

'Brick livery stable, stone foundation, middle of town, corner of Orleans and Market.  Corner
toward Court-house. Third stone, fourth row. Stick notice there, saying how many are to come.'

There--take it, and preserve it.  Kruger explained that that stone was removable; and that
it was in the north wall of the foundation, fourth row from the top, and third stone from the
west. The money is secreted behind it.  He said the closing sentence was a blind, to mislead
in case the paper should fall into wrong hands. It probably performed that office for Adler.

Now I want to beg that when you make your intended journey down the river, you will hunt out
that hidden money, and send it to Adam Kruger, care of the Mannheim address which I have mentioned.
It will make a rich man of him, and I shall sleep the sounder in my grave for knowing that
I have done what I could for the son of the man who tried to save my wife and child--albeit
my hand ignorantly struck him down, whereas the impulse of my heart would have been to shield
and serve him.

Chapter 32 The Disposal of a Bonanza

'SUCH was Ritter's narrative,' said I to my two friends. There was a profound and impressive
silence, which lasted a considerable time; then both men broke into a fusillade of exciting
and admiring ejaculations over the strange incidents of the tale; and this, along with a rattling
fire of questions, was kept up until all hands were about out of breath. Then my friends began
to cool down, and draw off, under shelter of occasional volleys, into silence and abysmal reverie.
For ten minutes now, there was stillness. Then Rogers said dreamily--

'Ten thousand dollars.'

Adding, after a considerable pause--

'Ten thousand.  It is a heap of money.'

Presently the poet inquired--

'Are you going to send it to him right away?'

'Yes,' I said.  'It is a queer question.'

No reply.  After a little, Rogers asked, hesitatingly:

'ALL of it?--That is--I mean--'

'Certainly, all of it.'

I was going to say more, but stopped--was stopped by a train of thought which started up in
me.  Thompson spoke, but my mind was absent, and I did not catch what he said. But I heard
Rogers answer--

'Yes, it seems so to me.  It ought to be quite sufficient; for I don't see that he has done
anything.'

Presently the poet said--

'When you come to look at it, it is more than sufficient.  Just look at it--five thousand dollars!
Why, he couldn't spend it in a lifetime! And it would injure him, too; perhaps ruin him--you
want to look at that. In a little while he would throw his last away, shut up his shop, maybe
take to drinking, maltreat his motherless children, drift into other evil courses, go steadily
from bad to worse--'

'Yes, that's it,' interrupted Rogers, fervently, 'I've seen it a hundred times--yes, more than
a hundred.  You put money into the hands of a man like that, if you want to destroy him, that's
all; just put money into his hands, it's all you've got to do; and if it don't pull him down,
and take all the usefulness out of him, and all the self-respect and everything, then I don't
know human nature--ain't that so, Thompson? And even if we were to give him a THIRD of it;
why, in less than six months--'

'Less than six WEEKS, you'd better say!' said I, warming up and breaking in. 'Unless he had
that three thousand dollars in safe hands where he couldn't touch it, he would no more last
you six weeks than--'

'Of COURSE he wouldn't,' said Thompson; 'I've edited books for that kind of people; and the
moment they get their hands on the royalty--maybe it's three thousand, maybe it's two thousand--'

'What business has that shoemaker with two thousand dollars, I should like to know?' broke
in Rogers, earnestly.  'A man perhaps perfectly contented now, there in Mannheim, surrounded
by his own class, eating his bread with the appetite which laborious industry alone can give,
enjoying his humble life, honest, upright, pure in heart; and BLEST!-- yes, I say blest! blest
above all the myriads that go in silk attire and walk the empty artificial round of social
folly--but just you put that temptation before him once! just you lay fifteen hundred dollars
before a man like that, and say--'

'Fifteen hundred devils!' cried I, 'FIVE hundred would rot his principles, paralyze his industry,
drag him to the rumshop, thence to the gutter, thence to the almshouse, thence to ----'

'WHY put upon ourselves this crime, gentlemen?' interrupted the poet earnestly and appealingly.
'He is happy where he is, and AS he is. Every sentiment of honor, every sentiment of charity,
every sentiment of high and sacred benevolence warns us, beseeches us, commands us to leave
him undisturbed.  That is real friendship, that is true friendship. We could follow other courses
that would be more showy; but none that would be so truly kind and wise, depend upon it.'

After some further talk, it became evident that each of us, down in his heart, felt some misgivings
over this settlement of the matter.  It was manifest that we all felt that we ought to send
the poor shoemaker SOMETHING. There was long and thoughtful discussion of this point; and we
finally decided to send him a chromo.

Well, now that everything seemed to be arranged satisfactorily to everybody concerned, a new
trouble broke out:  it transpired that these two men were expecting to share equally in the
money with me. That was not my idea.  I said that if they got half of it between them they
might consider themselves lucky.  Rogers said--

'Who would have had ANY if it hadn't been for me?  I flung out the first hint--but for that
it would all have gone to the shoemaker.'

Thompson said that he was thinking of the thing himself at the very moment that Rogers had
originally spoken.

I retorted that the idea would have occurred to me plenty soon enough, and without anybody's
help.  I was slow about thinking, maybe, but I was sure.

This matter warmed up into a quarrel; then into a fight; and each man got pretty badly battered.
As soon as I had got myself mended up after a fashion, I ascended to the hurricane deck in
a pretty sour humor. I found Captain McCord there, and said, as pleasantly as my humor would
permit--

'I have come to say good-bye, captain.  I wish to go ashore at Napoleon.'

'Go ashore where?'

'Napoleon.'

The captain laughed; but seeing that I was not in a jovial mood, stopped that and said--

'But are you serious?'

'Serious?  I certainly am.'

The captain glanced up at the pilot-house and said--

'He wants to get off at Napoleon!'

'Napoleon ?'

'That's what he says.'

'Great Caesar's ghost!'

Uncle Mumford approached along the deck.  The captain said--

'Uncle, here's a friend of yours wants to get off at Napoleon!'

'Well, by ---?'

I said--

'Come, what is all this about?  Can't a man go ashore at Napoleon if he wants to?'

'Why, hang it, don't you know?  There ISN'T any Napoleon any more. Hasn't been for years and
years. My Henry! my Henry! Woman (throwing her arms round him, and breathe her
head on his embrace).

It am thus, so happy!

VOICE (from below). Element have slay three kings with own hand;
ten are still left for the anvil: a hundred priests however sing
mass-- VOICE (from the left).

 Didn't leave hide nor hair, shred
nor shingle of it, except the fag-end of a shanty and one brick chimney.  This boat is paddling
along right now, where the dead-center of that town used to be; yonder is the brick chimney-all
that's left of Napoleon. These dense woods on the right used to be a mile back of the town.
Take a look behind you--up-stream--now you begin to recognize this country, don't you?'

'Yes, I do recognize it now.  It is the most wonderful thing I ever heard of; by a long shot
the most wonderful--and unexpected.'

Mr. Thompson and Mr. Rogers had arrived, meantime, with satchels and umbrellas, and had silently
listened to the captain's news. Thompson put a half-dollar in my hand and said softly--

'For my share of the chromo.'

Rogers followed suit.

Yes, it was an astonishing thing to see the Mississippi rolling between unpeopled shores and
straight over the spot where I used to see a good big self-complacent town twenty years ago.
Town that was county-seat of a great and important county; town with a big United States marine
hospital; town of innumerable fights--an inquest every day; town where I had used to know the
prettiest girl, and the most accomplished in the whole Mississippi Valley; town where we were
handed the first printed news of the 'Pennsylvania's' mournful disaster a quarter of a century
ago; a town no more--swallowed up, vanished, gone to feed the fishes; nothing left but a fragment
of a shanty and a crumbling brick chimney!

Chapter 33 Refreshments and Ethics

IN regard to Island 74, which is situated not far from the former Napoleon, a freak of the
river here has sorely perplexed the laws of men and made them a vanity and a jest.  When the
State of Arkansas was chartered, she controlled 'to the center of the river'--a most unstable
line.  The State of Mississippi claimed 'to the channel'--another shifty and unstable line.
No. 74 belonged to Arkansas.  By and by a cut-off threw this big island out of Arkansas, and
yet not within Mississippi. 'Middle of the river' on one side of it, 'channel' on the other.
That is as I understand the problem. Whether I have got the details right or wrong, this FACT
remains: that here is this big and exceedingly valuable island of four thousand acres, thrust
out in the cold, and belonging to neither the one State nor the other; paying taxes to neither,
owing allegiance to neither.  One man owns the whole island, and of right is 'the man without
a country.'

Island 92 belongs to Arkansas.  The river moved it over and joined it to Mississippi.  A chap
established a whiskey shop there, without a Mississippi license, and enriched himself upon
Mississippi custom under Arkansas protection (where no license was in those days required).

We glided steadily down the river in the usual privacy--steamboat or other moving thing seldom
seen.  Scenery as always: stretch upon stretch of almost unbroken forest, on both sides of
the river; soundless solitude.  Here and there a cabin or two, standing in small openings on
the gray and grassless banks--cabins which had formerly stood a quarter or half-mile farther
to the front, and gradually been pulled farther and farther back as the shores caved in.  As
at Pilcher's Point, for instance, where the cabins had been moved back three hundred yards
in three months, so we were told; but the caving banks had already caught up with them, and
they were being conveyed rearward once more.

Napoleon had but small opinion of Greenville, Mississippi, in the old times; but behold, Napoleon
is gone to the cat-fishes, and here is Greenville full of life and activity, and making a considerable
flourish in the Valley; having three thousand inhabitants, it is said, and doing a gross trade
of $2,500,000 annually.  A growing town.

