"It was on that," whispered Issachar, "that I called for help, my son, when thou wert dying.
From the hour I dipped it from the water my heart has been warmer to the world and man. Is
there, in all the hoary traditions of our church, a reason why we should not beseech its illumination
again before it returns to the ocean with ourselves? Do thou decide, who art full of wisdom;
for I am ignorant in thy eyes, and heavy with sins."

The cross, resplendent, seemed to wear a visible countenance. Wrapped in Issachar's arms, like
a babe to its mother, young Abraham extended his hands to the effigy, and in its beams a wondrous
consolation of love and rest returned to those poor companions, reconciling them to their helplessness
in the presence of the Almighty awe.

"Child of God!" exclaimed the Jew, "thou beauty of the Gentiles, I gave thee life but for a
span, and thou seemest to bring to me the life immortal."

The morning broke on the shore frosty and clear after the subsided storm, and the earliest
wreckers, seeking in the drift for Christmas gifts to give their children, found well-remembered
parts of the Eli and portions of the tenement of its proprietor. A wave rolled higher than
the rest and cast upon the shore two bodies--a young man of the comely face and symmetry of
a woman, without a sign of pain in his features and dark, oriental eyes, and an old man, venerable
as an inhabitant of the ocean and mysterious as a being of some race anterior to the deluge.
In his rugged face the marks of that antiquity which has something stately in the lowest types
of the Jew, and in this one an almost Mosaic might, were softened to a magnanimity where death
had nothing to contribute but its silence and respect. Laying them together, the fishermen
and idlers looked at them with a superstition partly of remorse and mild remembrance, and the
star of Christmas twinkled over them in the sky. None felt that they were other than father
and son, and black men and white, indifferent that day to social prejudices, followed the child
of Hagar and the Hebrew patriarch to the grave.

HAUNTED PUNGY.

    They hewed the pines on Haunted Point
      To build the pungy boat,
    And other axes than their own
      Yet other echoes smote;
    They heard the phantom carpenters,
      But not a man could see;
    And every pine that crashed to earth
      Brought down a viewless tree.

    They launched the pungy, not alone;
      Another vessel slipped
    Down in the water with their own,
      And ghostly sailors shipped;
    They heard the rigging flap and creak,
      And hollow orders cried.
    But not a living man could seek,
      And not a boat beside.

    They sailed away from Haunted Point,
      Convoyed by something more:
    A boatswain's whistle answered back,
      And oar replied to oar.
    No matter where the anchor dropped,
      The fiends would not aroint,
    And every morn the pungy boat
      Still lay off Haunted Point.

    They hailed; and voices as in fog
      Seemed half to speak again--
    A devilish chuckling rolled afar,
      And mutiny of men.
    The parson of the islands said
      It was the pirate band,
    Whose gold was lost on Haunted Point
      And hid with bloody hand.

    Until what time a kidnapped boy,
      By ruffians whipped and stole,
    Should in the groves of Haunted Point
      Convert his stealer's soul!
    They stole the island parson's child,
      He said a little prayer:
    Down sank the ground; a gliding sound
      Went whispering through the air.

    And in the depths the pungy sank;
      And, as the divers told,
    They sought the wreck to lift again,
      And found the pirates' gold.
    And in a chapel close at hand
      The pious freedmen toil;
    No slaves are left in all the land,
      Nor any pirates' spoil.

TICKING STONE.

People say that a certain tombstone in the London Tract "Hardshell" Baptist graveyard, near
Newark, Delaware, will give to the ear placed flat upon it the sound of a ticking like a watch.
The London Tract Church, as its name implies, was the worshipping place of certain settlers
who either came from London, or chose land owned by a London company. It is a quaint edifice
of hard stone, with low-bent bevelled roof, and surrounded by a stone wall, which has a shingle
coping. The wall incloses many gravestones, their inscriptions showing that very many of the
old worshippers of the church were Welsh. Some large and healthy forest trees partly shade
the graveyard and the grassy and sandy cross-roads where it stands, near the brink of the pretty
White Clay Creek.

I climbed over the coping of the graveyard wall last spring, and followed my companion, the
narrator of the following story, to what appeared to be the very oldest portion of the inclosure.
The tombstones were in some cases quite illegible as to inscriptions, worn bare and smooth
by more than a century's rains and chipping frosts, and others were sunken deep in the grass
so as to afford only partial recompense for the epitaph hunter.

"This is the Ticking Stone," said my companion, pointing to a recumbent slab, worn smooth and
scarcely showing a trace of former lettering; "put your ear upon it while I pull away the weeds,
and then note if you hear any thing."

I laid my ear upon the mossy stone, and almost immediately felt an audible, almost tangible
ticking, like that of a lady's watch.

"You are scratching the stone, Pusey," I cried to my informant.

"No! Upon my honor! That is not the sound of a scratch that you hear. It cannot be any insect
nor any process of moving life in the stone or beneath it. Can you liken it to any thing but
the equal motion of a rather feeble timepiece?"

I listened again, and this time longer, and a sort of superstition grew over me, so that had
I been alone, probably I would have experienced a sense of timid loneliness. To stand amidst
those silent memorial stones of the early times and hear a watch beat beneath one of them as
perfectly as you can feel it in your vest pocket, and then to feel your heart start nervously
at the recognition of this disassociated sound, is not satisfying, even when in human company.

"This is the best ghost I have ever found," I said. "Perhaps some one has slipped a watch underneath,
for it is somebody's watch; there is something real in it."

"I took the stone up once myself," said Pusey, "and the ticking then seemed to come up from
the ground. While I deliberated, an old man came out of yonder old sexton-looking house, and
warned me not to disturb the dead. He crossed the wall, and assisted me to replace the stone,
and then bade me sit down upon it, ancient mariner-like, while he disclosed the cause of the
phenomenon."

Here my companion stopped a minute--and in the pause we could hear the old trees wave very
solemnly above us, and a nut, or burr, or sycamore ball, came rattling down the old kirk roof
as we stood there in the graves, to startle us the more, and then he said:

"It is just as queer as the tale he told me--the disappearance of that old man. Nobody about
here can recognize him from my descriptions. He walked toward the old mill down the Newark
road, and the next time I looked up he was gone. The people in the house there think I am flighty
in my mind for insisting upon his appearance to me at all."

"Go on with the tale right here, my flesh-creeping friend," I said. "It will do us good to
feel occasionally solemn."

       *       *       *       *       *

"This stone, young man," said my Quakerly rebuker, in a hard country farmer's voice; "this
stone is the London Tract Ticking Stone. It is the oldest preacher and admonitor in this churchyard.
It is older than the graves of any of the known pastors or communicants round about it.

"In the year 1764 the comparative solitude of this region was broken by a large party of chain-bearers,
rod-men, axe-men, commissaries, cooks, baggage-carriers, and camp-followers. They had come
by order of Lord Baltimore and William Penn, to terminate a long controversy between two great
landed proprietors, and they were led by Charles Mason, of the Royal Observatory, at Greenwich,
England, and by Jeremiah Dixon, the son of a collier discovered in a coalpit. For three years
they continued westward, running their stakes over mountains and streams, like a gypsy camp
in appearance, frightening the Indians with their sorcery. But, near this spot, they halted
longest, to fix with precision the tangent point, and the point of intersection of three States--the
circular head of Delaware, the abutting right angle of Maryland, and the tiny pan-handle of
Pennsylvania.

"The people of this region were sparse in number, but of strong, sober, and yet wild characteristics.
The long boundary quarrel had made them predatory, and though God-fearing people, they would
fight with all their religious intensity for their right in the land and the dominion of their
particular province. They suspended their feuds when the surveying battalion came into their
broken country, and looked with curious interest upon all that pertained to the distinguished
foreign mathematicians. Around their camp of tents and pack-mules, peddlers and preachers called
together their motley congregations, and the sound of axes clearing the timber was accompanied
by fiddling and haranguing, the fighting of dogs, and the coarse tones of religious or business
oratory. It was in the height of the era of the great period of the Dissenters in England,
and Methodist, Baptist, and Calvinistic zealots were piercing to the boundaries of English-speaking
people, wild forerunners of those organized bands of clergy which were speedily to make our
colonies sober-minded, and prepare them for self-government.

"Charles Mason was the scientific spirit of the party--a cool, observing, painstaking, plodding
man, slow in his processes and reliable in his conclusions, and the bond of friendship between
himself and Dixon was that of two unequal minds admiring the superiorities of each other. They
had already proceeded together to the Cape of Good Hope on two occasions to study an eclipse
and an occultation. Mason liked Dixon for his ready spirits, almost improvident courage, speed
with details, and worldly bearing. Though little is known of their memories now, because they
left us no prolific records and spent much of the period of service among us in the midst of
the wilderness or in the reticence required for mathematical calculation, yet they were the
successors of Washington in the surveying of the Alleghany ridges. Their survey was reliable;
the line was true. How much superior does it stand to-day to the line of thirty degrees thirty
minutes, which is the next great political parallel below it, and was partly run only a few
years afterwards! Up to their line for the next hundred years flowed the waters of slavery,
but sent no human drop beyond, which did not evaporate in the free light of a milder sun. God
speed the surveyor, whoever he be, who plants the stakes of a tranquil commonwealth and leaves
them to be the limit of bad principles, the pioneer line of good ones!

"Charles Mason had spent many years of his life, up to his old age, experimenting with timepieces
of his own invention. Many years before, Sir Isaac Newton had called the attention of the British
Government to the necessity for an accurate portable time-keeper at sea, to determine longitude,
and in 1714 Parliament offered a reward of 20,000 pounds sterling for such a chronometer. Thenceforward
for fifty years the inventive spirits of England and the Continent were secretly at work to
produce a timepiece which would deserve the large reward, amongst them Charles Mason, who labored
with such perfect discretion and uncommunicative self-reliance that none knew, none will ever
know, the motive principle he employed or the enginery he devised. While he was working at
this survey, near the spot at which we stand, the Board of Award gave the £20,000 to one John
Harrison, almost at the very instant when Mason and Dixon's line was begun. This you can confirm
by any history of Horology. Charles Mason lived down to the year 1787, surviving Dixon, who
had died in England ten years previously, and he was known to say to the end of his days, to
people resident in Philadelphia, that a child had eaten up £20,000 belonging to him at a single
mouthful.

"The child whom the neighborhood at that time accused of this act was known in later life as
Fithian Minuit, babe of a woman of mixed English and Finnish-Dutch descent, who came from the
fishermen's town of Head of Elk, a few hours jog to the southward, to sell fish to the surveying
camp. She was a woman of mingled severity of features and bodily obesity, uniting in one temper
and frame the Scandinavian and the Low Dutch traits, ignorant good-humor, grim commerce, and
stolid appetite. Her baby was the fattest, quaintest, and ugliest in the country; ready to
devour any thing, to grin at any thing, go to the arms of everybody, and, in short, it represented
all the traits of the Middle State races--the government of the members, including the brain,
by the belly.

"One day this Finnish-Dutch baby--aged perhaps two years--was picked up by one of the assistant
surveyors and carried into the tent of Charles Mason. The great surveyor was at that instant
bending down over a small metallic object which he was examining through the medium of a lens.
He recognized the child, and seemed glad of the opportunity to dismiss more serious occupation
from his mind, so he instantly leaped up and poked the fat urchin with his thumb, tempting
the bite of its teeth with his forefinger, and was otherwise reducing his tired faculties to
the needs of a child's amusement, when suddenly the voice of its mother at the tent's opening
drew him away.

"'Fresh fish, mighty surveyor! Fall shad, and the most beautiful yellow perch. Buy something
for the sake of Minuit's baby!'

"The celebrated surveyor, who seemed in an admirable humor, stepped just outside the tent to
look at the fish, and in that little interval his assistant, seized with inquisitiveness, stole
up to his table, and picked up the tiny object lying there under the magnifying glass.

"'This is the little ticking seducer which absorbs my master's time,' he said. 'Why, it isn't
big enough for an infant to count the minutes of its life upon it!'

"At this the fat, good-humored baby, anticipating something to eat, reached out its hands.
The surveyor's assistant, in a moment of mischief, put the object in the child's grasp. The
child clutched it, bit at it, and swallowed it whole in an instant.

"Before the assistant surveyor could think of any other harm done than the possible choking
of the child, the child's mother and the great surveyor entered the tent. The arms of the first
reached for her offspring, and of the second for the subject of his experiment.

"'My chronometer!'

"'The child of the fish-woman ate it!'

"The fish-woman screamed, and reversed the urchin after the manner of mothers, and swung him
to and fro like a pendulum. He came up a trifle red in the face, but laughing as usual, and
the ludicrous inappositeness of the great loss, the unconscious cause of it, the baby's wonderful
digestion, the assistant's distress, and the surveyor's calm but pallid self-control, made
Jeremiah Dixon, dropping in at the minute, roar with laughter.

"'Dixon,' said Mason, 'the work of half my life, my everlasting timepiece, just completed and
set going, has found a temperature where it requires no compensation balance.'

"'I am glad of it,' said his associate, 'for now we can proceed with Mason and Dixon's line,
and nothing else!'

"A look, more of pity than of reproach, passed over Mason's scarcely ruffled face--the pity
of one man solely conscious of a great object lost, for another, indifferent or ignorant both
of the object and the loss. He took the smiling urchin in his hands, and raising it upon his
shoulder, placed his ear to its side. Thence came with faint regularity the sound of a simple,
gentle ticking. They all heard it by turns, and, while they paused in puzzled wonder and humor,
the undaunted infant looked down as innocent as a chubby, cheery face painted on some household
clock. The innocent expression of the child touched the mathematician's heart. He filled a
glass with good Madeira wine, and drank the devourer's health in these benignant words:

"'May Minuit's baby run as long and as true as the article on which he has made his meal!'

"Next day they set the great stone in the corner of the State of Maryland, and, breaking camp,
vanished westward through the cleft of light opened by their pioneers, pursued yet for many
miles by a motley multitude.

"Before many years this fertile country filled up with hamlets, mills, and churches; the War
of Independence scarcely interrupted its prosperity, because the Quaker element adhered with
constancy to neither side, and only one campaign was fought here. The story of the boy who
ate a watch passed out of general knowledge and remark; he was known to have been a drummer
at the battle of Chadd's Ford, and to have buried his mother before the close of the war, at
the Delaware fishing hamlet of Marcus Hook, amongst her Finnish progenitors.

"But soon after the peace, the short, fat body and queer, merry Dutch face of Fithian Minuit
were known all along the roads of Chester, Cecil, and Newcastle counties, by parts of the people
of three States, as components of one of the least offensive, most industrious, and most lively
and popular young chaps around the head of the Chesapeake.

"He was respectful with the old and congenial with the young--always going and never tired,
up early and late, of a chirruping sort of address and an equal temper, and while he appeared
to be thrifty and money-making, he did all manner of good turns for the high and the humble;
and, although everybody said he was the homeliest young man in the region, yet more village
girls went to their front doors to see him than if he had been a showman coming to town to
do feats of magic. He was not unintelligent either, and could play on the violin, compute accounts
equal to the best country book-keeper, and as he was of religious turn, although attached to
no particular denomination, the meeting-houses on every side, hardly excepting the Quakers
themselves, delighted to see him drive up on Sundays and tell an anecdote to the children and
sing a little air, half-hymn sort, half stave, but always given with a good countenance, which
apologized for the worldly notes of it. If any severe interpreter of Christian amusements took
the people to task for tolerating such a universal and desultory character, there were others
to rise up and ask what evil or passionate word or act of sorry behavior in Fithian Minuit
could be instanced. The severe Francis Asbury himself raised the question once on the Bohemia
Manor amongst the Methodists, and got so little support that he charged young Minuit with the
possession of some devilish art or spell to entrap the people; but Fithian once, when the good
itinerant's horse broke down on the road, met Mr. Asbury, won his affections, and mended his
big silver watch.

"This mending of clocks, watches, and every description of time-keepers was the occupation
of Minuit. He had picked up the art, some said, from a Yankee in the army at the close of the
war, and certainly no man of his time or territory had such good luck with timepieces. Residing
in the little village of Christina (by the pretentious called Christi-anna, and by the crude,
with nearer rectitude, called Cristene), Fithian kept a snug little shop full of all manners
and forms of clocks, dials, sand-glasses, hour-burning candles, water-clocks, and night tapers.
He had amended and improved the new Graham clock, called the 'dead scapement,' or 'dead-beat
escapement' (the origin of our modern word dead-beat, signifying a man who does not meet his
engagements, whereas the original 'dead-beat' was the most faithful engagements-keeper of its
time. Perhaps a dead-beat nowadays is a time-server; for this would be a correct derivation).
From this shop the young Minuit, in a plain but reliable wagon, with a nag never fast and never
slow, and indifferent to temperatures, travelled the country for a radius of forty miles--not
embarrassed even by the Delaware, which he crossed once a month, and attended fully to the
temporal and partly to the spiritual needs of all the Jerseymen betwixt Elsinborough and Swedesboro.

"Over the door of Minuit's whitewashed cabin on the knoll of Christina was the sign of a jovial,
fat person, bearing some resemblance to himself, in the centre of whose stomach stood a clock
inscribed, 'My time is everybody's.' Past this little shop went the entire long caravan and
cavalcade by land between the North and South, stage-coaches, mail-riders, highwaymen, chariots,
herdsters, and tramps; for Christina bridge was on the great tide-water road and at the head
of navigation on the Swedish river of the same name, so that here vessels from the Delaware
transferred their cargo to wagons, and a portage of only ten miles to the Head of Elk gave
goods and passengers reshipment down the Chesapeake. This village declined only when the canal
just below it was opened in 1829 and a little railway in 1833. It was nearly a century and
a half old when Minuit set his sign there, before General Washington went past it to be inaugurated.
From Fithian's window the pleasant land was seen spread out below him beyond the Christina;
and the Swedish, Dutch, and English farms smiled from their loamy levels on sails which moved
with scarcely perceptible motion through the narrow dykes planted with greenest willows. Before
his door the teamsters, ill-tempered with lashing and swearing at their teams in the ruts of
Iron Hill, schoolboys from Nottingham, millers' men from Upper White Clay, and bargemen and
stage passengers, recovered temper to see the sign of the great paunch with a timepiece set
so naturally in it indicating the hour of dinner. Within they found the clock-maker, with face
beaming as if reflected from a watch-case, working handily amongst a hundred ticking pieces,
of which he looked to be one. There were large sundials for the outer walls of barns and farm-houses,
very popular in the Pennsylvania hills; sand-glasses for the Peninsula, where it cost nothing
to fill them; and hour-burning candles, much affected by the Chesapeake gentry, which gave
at once light and time. There were ancient striking clocks, such as the monks may have used
to disturb them for early prayers, which, with a horrible rattle of wheels and clash of heavy
weights, hammered the alarm. There were the tremendous watches of river captains who had aspired
to go to sea, and old crutch escapement watches which Huygens himself had perhaps handled in
Holland. The window was filled with trains of wheels and pinions, snails and racks, crystals,
and faces and watches, cackling at each other. There were striking clocks which rung chimes
or rocked like little vessels on apparent billows, or started off with notes like grasshoppers.
A hundred of the most musical tree-frogs shut up in a piano might give a feeble notion of the
tunes and thrummings assembled in this shop. It was the same day or night, and the power of
Fithian Minuit over time-keepers was nearly miraculous. He appeared to be able to smile an
old watch into action. Transferred to his hand, some spent and rusty sentinel, long silent
and useless, seemed to feel the warmth of the mender and resumed the round of duty. He would
buy from the old estate halls on the Sassafras and the Chester rivers, tall, solemn clocks,
dead to the purpose of their creation, their stately learned faces lost to former automatic
expressions or waggery, and when exposed to the infectious influences of his shop, a gurgle
of sound as of the inhalation of air into their lungs had been heard, according to some people,
and next day the carcass of the clock would be found resonant and its faculties recovered.
One day the great patriots, John Dickinson and Cæsar Rodney, riding past Christina together,
stopped for dinner, and sent their watches in to be cleaned meantime.

"'Minuit,' said Rodney, 'you are a devil with a time-keeper!'

"'Nay, Minuit,' said Dickinson, 'thou art the gentlest custodian of time in our parts. I would
some one could regulate these States and times like thee.'

"The country round resorted to Minuit for repairs, but he generally came himself along the
roads fortuitously about the time anybody's dials stood still. He was almost equal as a weather
prophet to his fame as a mechanic, and as his broad, fat face, blue eyes, and portly body passed
some farmer's gate, the cheery cry would go up, perhaps:

"'Make hay--the wind's right!' or again: 'Time enough, farmer, with another pair of hands.
But it's coming from the east!'

"Had it been possible to suggest any superstition about a man universally popular, people would
have said that this henchman of time and minute-hand of diligence drew his power from doubtful
sources. Further north, where there was less superstition than amongst these mingled unspiritualized
populations, Minuit might have been burnt as a wizard. A little doctor in the Deutsch hills,
who once prescribed for the clock-mender, reported that his pulse had a metallic beat, and,
looking suddenly up, he saw, where Minuit's face had been, a round clock face looking down
and ticking at him. This doctor was a worthless fellow, however, and loose of tongue. Minuit,
it was observed, never used a tuning-fork in church, like all leaders of religious music, but
cast his eyes down a moment towards his heart, and tapped his foot, and then, as if catching
the pitch somewhere from within, he raised the tune and carried it forward with an exquisite
sense of rhythm.

"A very old man and a cripple, who lived across the way from Minuit's, affected to observe
extraordinary changes in his stature according to the weather changes, elongating as the temperature
rose, and in very cold weather sinking into himself; this man also observed, on the day of
a solar eclipse, that for the period there was nothing at all in the place where the clock-mender's
head had been except a ring of light which enlarged as the disk of the sun was released. But
who could rely upon the vagaries of an old man, who could do nothing but make memoranda out
of his window upon the doings of his neighbors?

"If anybody knew more than that Fithian Minuit was an obliging, neighborly man, and a model
for mechanics, it must have been the subject of his romance. He was related to have told all
that he knew upon the mystery of his being to his clergyman, and there is nothing now to confirm
the gossip; for the preacher himself has gone to sleep in the old Shrewsbury graveyard in Maryland.

"At Port Penn, where the last island in the channel of the lower Delaware now raises its flaming
beacon, and the belated collier steers safely by Reedy Island light, lived the daughter of
an old West India and coasting captain, who would permit his chronometers to be repaired and
cleaned by nobody but Minuit. His cottage stood where now there is a broad and sandy street
leading to a wooden pier and to bathing-houses on a pleasure beach. The few people near at
hand were pilots, captains of bay craft, and grain-buyers; although the Dutch and Swedish farms,
alternating with long marshes, musical with birds, had lined the wide Delaware at this point
many a year. In calm, sunny weather, the broad beauty of the river and its low gold and emerald
shores, with bulky vessels swinging up on the slow full tide, combined the sceneries of America
and the Netherlands; but when a gale blew over the low shores, scattering the reed-birds like
the golden pollen of the marsh lilies, and cold white gulls succeeded, diving and careening
like sharks of the sky, the ships and coasters felt no serenity in these wide yeasty reaches
of the Delaware bay, and they labored to drop anchor behind the natural breakwater of Reedy
Island. There, clustering about as thickly in that olden time as they now seek from all the
ocean round the costly shelter of Henlopen breakwater, coaster and pirate, fisherman and slaver,
sent up the prayer a beneficent government has since granted in the fullest measure, for a
perfect Coast Survey and a vigilant Lighthouse Board.

"The daughter of Captain Lum was named Lois, and she was the junior of Fithian Minuit by several
years, a slender, beautiful girl, with hair and eyes of the softest brown, and household ways,
daughterly and endearing.

"The old sea-captain, who made five voyages a year to the nearer Indies, and sent ashore to
Port Penn as he passed, returning, the best of rum and the freshest of tropical fruits, looked
with a jealous eye upon any possible suitor to his daughter, and had, perhaps, embarrassed
her prospects for a younger protector, if such she had ever wished. But he loved to see the
clock-maker come to the cottage, who had never shown partiality for any woman, while popular
with all.

"'Minuit,' he used to say, 'the best man on watch by land or sea, thou North Star; look to
my girl as to my chronometer, and I'll pay thee twice the cost of thy time!'

"It was the captain's delight, while ashore, to have every timepiece, stationary or portable,
taken apart in the presence of his daughter and himself, while he told his sailor yarns, and
Lois stood ready to serve his punch, or pass to the fat, smooth-faced, cheerful Minuit the
pieces of mechanism: brass gimbals, chronometer-boxes, wheels and springs, ship-glasses, compasses,
the manifold parts of little things by which men grope their way out of sight of land, hung
between a human watch and the crystal shell of the embossed heaven. Chronometers were with
Minuit attractive and yet awe-giving subjects. The legend of his childhood, well forgotten
by all else, said that he had swallowed a chronometer, so small that a sea-captain could swim
with it in his mouth. And now the sailors of all the navies cruised by the aid of clumsy watches,
big as house-clocks, which to look at made Minuit smile with pity.

"'Captain Lum,' he said aloud, on the eve of a voyage in the winter season, 'I have often yearned
to go to sea. The sight of it makes me a little wild. I think I could guess my way over it
and about it, by inherent reckoning.'

"He saw the pair of white hands holding something before him tremble a little, and he looked
up. The spiritual face of Lois was looking at his with wistful apprehension and interest. If
ever his pulse beat out of time it was now--for in that exchange of glances he felt what she
did not understand--that he was beloved.

"Pain and joy, not swiftly, but softly, filled Minuit--pain, because he had loved this girl
and wished never to have her know it, but would keep it an unbreathed, a holy mystery; and
joy, like any lover's recognizing himself in the dear heart he had never importuned.

"Next day the good ship Chirpland came off Port Penn. The jolly captain saying adieu to Minuit,
clasped his hand.

"'I saw thy look and my daughter's yesterday,' he said. 'It is weak of me to deny her a man
like thee, thou sailor's friend. My ship is old. These coasts are dangerous. Nights and days
come when we get no sight of lights ashore or in heaven. If thy chronometer fail, fail not
thou, but be to her repairer and possessor!'

"The discovery and the trust embarrassed Minuit, but he had never denied the request of any
man. His time, as his sign affirmed, was everybody's. Yet a thrill, a twang, a twinge of delicious
fear passed through him now. He loved this girl dearly, but he feared to love at all. He had
now both the parental and the womanly recognition, and his days were lonely even with his garrulous
timepieces, but he felt a lonelier sense of the possibility of turning her affection to awe.
Those queer legends of his birth, his affinity for fixed luminaries and motions, and his conscious
knowledge that he stood in some way related to spheres and orbits, and the laws of revolution
and period, had never disturbed his mind in its calculations. But if he did stand exceptional
in these respects to his fellow-men, might another and a beloved one comprehend what he himself
did not? Yet the kindly regard of his neighbors, the composure of a conscience well consulted,
and the hope that he was worthy of human love, made him resolve to keep the captain's admonition,
though he hoped the occasion to obey it might never arrive.

"In the absence of the good ship, however, love could not be deceived. It spoke in waitings
and longings, and in tender glances and considerateness. She knew the rattle of his carriage-wheels,
and he could feel her in the air like the breath of a beautiful day soon to appear in distance.
Time, toward which he stood in such natural harmony, was dearer that it contained this passion
and life more exquisite, and himself more questionable for it all.

"It was a stormy winter. Ships strewed the coast between Hatteras and Navesink, and the capes
of the Delaware received many a tattered barque. The ice poured down and wedged itself between
Reedy Island and the shores, and crushed to pieces many that had escaped the ocean gales. One
night in a raging storm the door of Captain Lum's cabin was thrown open, and a sailor appeared
fresh from the water. He bore in his hand a chronometer, which Minuit recognized in a moment,
and he drew his arm for the first time around the maiden's form.

"'The Chirpland went down on Five Fathom Shoal, and the captain stood by her. He bade us return
his chronometer, and say that he perished in the assurance that his daughter was left to the
guidance of another fully as sure.'

"'My child,' said Minuit, 'I accept thee wholly, sharing thy griefs! Weep, but on the breast
of one who loves thee!'

"The village of Christina rejoiced when its broad-faced, dimpled friend came home with a bride
so fair and well-descended. They dressed the sign before his door with flowers. Only the groom
wore an anxious face as he led her into his tidy home, now for the first time blessed with
a mistress.

"The night of the nuptials came softly down, as nowhere else except upon the skies of the Delaware
and Chesapeake, and Minuit was happy. The thrumming clocks in the shop below mingled their
tones and tickings in one consonant chorus, scarcely heard above the long drone and low monotonies
of the insects in the creeks and woods, which assisted silence. The husband slept, how well
beloved he could not know.

"In the dreams of the night he was awakened. In the pale moonshine he saw his wife, clad in
her garments of whiteness, standing by his bed all trembling.

"'Tell me,' she said, 'what it is that I hear? I have listened till I am afraid. As I lay in
this room perfectly silent, with my head, my husband, nearest your heart, I felt the ticking
of a watch. At first it was only curious and strange. Now it haunts me and terrifies me. I
am a simple girl, new and nervous to this wedded life. Is this noise natural? What is it?'

"Minuit trembled also.

"'Lois, my bride, my heaven!' he said. 'Oh! pity me, who have tried to pity all and make all
happy, if I cannot myself explain away the cause of your alarm. I have kept myself lonely these
many years, aware that I was not like other men, but that my heart--no evil monitor to me--gave
a different sound. There is nothing in its beat, my wife, to make you fear it. Return and lay
your head upon it, and you will hear it say this only, if you listen with faith: love!'

"Thus the watch-maker turned superstition to assurance, and the admonition of his heart was
a source of joy instead of fear to the listener at its side. It ticked a few bright years with
constancy, and was the last benediction of the world to her ere she was ushered into that peace
which passeth understanding.

"At the death of his wife Minuit felt a deeper sense of his responsibility to time, and the
finite uses of it expanded to a cheerful conception of the infinite. The country round was
generally settled by a religious people, and the many meeting-houses of different sects had
his equal confidence and sympathy. Pursuing his craft with unwearied diligence, and delighting
the homestead with his violin as of old, a more pensive and wistful expression replaced his
smile, and love withdrawn beckoned him toward it beyond the boundaries of period. Hard populations,
which would not listen to preachers, heard with delight the amiable warnings of this friendly
man, and as his own generation grew older, a new race dawned to whom he appeared in the light
of a pure-spirited evangelist. 'Improve the time! watch it! ennoble it! It is a part of the
beautiful and perpetual circle of everlasting duty. It is to the great future only the little
disk of a second-hand, traversed as swiftly, while the great rim of heaven accepts it as a
part of the eternal round!' Such was the burden of his sermon.

"He could ride all along the roads, and hear his missionaries preaching for him wherever a
clock struck, or a dial on the gable of a great stone barn propelled its shadows. His tracts
were in every farmer's vest pocket. Whatever he made he consecrated with a paragraph of counsel.

"The old sign faded out. The clock-maker's sight grew dim, but his apprehensions of the everlasting
love and occupation were clearer and more confident to the end.

"One day they found him in the graveyard of the London Tract, by the side of the spot where
his wife was interred, worn and asleep at the ripe age of three-score.

"The mill teams and the farm wagons stopped in the road, and the country folks gathered round
in silence.

"'Run down at last,' said one. 'If there are heavenly harps and bells, he hears them now!'"

And there they hear the ticking, the preaching of this faithful life, under the old stone,
sending up its pleasant message yet. The stone is perishing like a broken crystal, but the
memory of the diligent and useful man beneath it rings amongst the holy harmonies of the country.
Though dead, he yet speaketh!

THE IMP IN NANJEMOY.

    Dull in the night, when the camps were still,
    Thumped two nags over Good Hope Hill;
    The white deserter, the passing spy,
    Took to the brush as the pair went by;
    The army mule gave over the chase;
    The Catholic negro, hearing the pace,
    Said, as they splashed through Oxon Run:
    "Dey ride like de soldiers who speared God's Son!"
    But when Good Friday's bells behind
    Died in the capital on the wind,
    He who rode foremost paused to say:
      "Herold, spur up to my side, scared boy!
    A word has rung in my ears all day--
      Merely a jingle, 'Nanjemoy.'"

    "Ha!" said Herold, "John, why that's
    A little old creek on the river. Surratt's
    Lies just before us. You halt on the green
    While I slip in the tavern and get your carbine!"
    The outlaw drank of the whiskey deep,
    Which the tipsy landlord, half asleep,
    Brought to his side, and his broken foot
    He raised from the stirrup and slashed the boot.
    "Lloyd," he cried, "if some news you invite--
    Old Seward was stabbed in his bed to-night.
    Lincoln I shot--that long-lived fox--
    As he looked at the play from the theatre box;
    And it seemed to me that the sound I heard,
      As the audience fluttered, like ducks round decoy,
    Was only the buzz of a musical word
      That I cannot get rid of--'Nanjemoy.'"

    "Twenty miles we must ride before day,
    Cross Mattawoman, Piscataway,
    If in the morn we would take to the woods
    In the swamp of Zekiah, at Doctor Mudd's!"
    "Quaint are the names," thought the outlaw then,
    "Though much I have mingled with Maryland men!
    I have fever, I think, or my mind's o'erthrown.
    Though scraped is the flesh by this broken bone,
    Every jog that I take on this road so lonely,
      With thoughts, aye bloody, my mind to employ,
    I can but say, over and over, this only--
      The drowsy, melodious 'Nanjemoy.'"

    Silent they galloped by broken gates,
    By slashes of pines around old estates;
    By planters' graves afield under clumps
    Of blackjack oaks and tobacco stumps;
    The empty quarters of negroes grin
    From clearings of cedar and chinquopin;
    From fodder stacks the wild swine flew,
    The shy young wheat the frost peeped through,
    And the swamp owl hooted as if she knew
      Of the crime, as she hailed: "Ahoy! Ahoy!"
    And the chiming hoofs of the horses drew
      The pitiless rhythm of "Nanjemoy."

    So in the dawn as perturbed and gray
    They hid in the farm-house off the way,
    And the worn assassin dozed in his chair,
    A voice in his dreams or afloat in the air,
    Like a spirit born in the Indian corn--
    Immemorial, vague, forlorn,
    And disembodied--murmured forever
    The name of the old creek up the river.
    "God of blood!" he said unto Herold,
    As they groped in the dusk, lost and imperilled,
    In the oozy, entangled morass and mesh
    Of hanging vines over Allen's Fresh:
    "The chirp of birds and the drone of frogs,
    The lizards and crickets from trees and bogs
    Follow me yet, pursue and ferret
      My soul with a word which I used to enjoy,
    As if it had turned on me like a spirit
      And stabbed my ear with its 'Nanjemoy.'"

    Ay! Great Nature fury or preacher
    Makes, as she wists, of the tiniest creature--
    Arming a word, as it floats on the mind,
    With the dagger of wrath and the wing of the wind.
    What, though weighted to take them down,
    Their swimming steeds in the river they drown,
    And paddle the farther shore to gain,
    Chased by gunboats or lost in rain?
    Many a night they try the ferry
      And the days in haggard sleep employ,
    But every raft, or float, or wherry,
      Drifts up the tide to Nanjemoy.

    "Ho! John, we shall have no more annoy,
    We've crossed the river from Nanjemoy.
    The bluffs of Virginny their shadows reach
    To hide our landing upon the beach!"
    Repelled from the manse to hide in the barn,
    The sick wretch hears, like a far-away horn,
    As he lies on the straw by the snoring boy,
    The winding echo of "N-a-n-j-e-m-o-y."
    All day it follows, all night it whines,
    From the suck of waters, the moan of pines,
    And the tread of cavalry following after,
    The flash of flames on beam and rafter,
    The shot, the strangle, the crash, the swoon,
    Scarce break his trance or disturb the croon
    Of the meaningless notes on his lips which fasten,
      And the soldier hears, as he seeks to convoy
    The dying words of the dark assassin,
      A wandering murmur, like "Nanjemoy."

THE FALL OF UTIE.

The reception at Secretary Flake's was at its height. Bland Van, the President of the nation,
had departed with his boys; the punch-bowl had been emptied nine times; and still the cry from
our republican society was, "Fill up!"

A pair of young men, unacquainted with each other, pressed at the same time to the punch-bowl,
and Jack, the chief ladler, turning from the younger, a clerk in civil dress, helped the elder,
a tall naval officer, to a couple of glasses. The clerk, young Utie, who was somewhat flushed,
addressed the chief ladler and remarked:

"You dam nigger, didn't you see my glass?"

"See it, sah? Yes! I've seen it seval times afo, dis evening."

Black Jack then received the current allowance of curses for his color and his impudence, all
of which he took meekly, till the officer, Lieutenant Dibdo, interrupted on the negro's behalf.

"It's none o' yo affair, I reckon!" cried Utie sullenly.

"The man had no intention of slighting you," said Dibdo. "You have been drinking too much,
boy, and your coarseness is coming out."

A fresh crowd of thirsty people pressing up at this point gave Jack his opportunity to cry:
"Room around de punch-bowl!"

And the disputants were separated and squeezed by the promenading tides into different rooms.

The officer presently forgot all about it, but not so young Utie, who was partly drunk, entirely
vain, not a gentleman by nature, and outraged that anybody had dubbed him "a boy." He sought
the side of a fine young girl, the daughter of the chief of the bureau where he was employed,
and with whom he was in love. She was attired in the free costume of republican receptions--bare
arms, a low dress giving ample display to the whitest shoulders in the room, and fine natural
hair dressed with flowers. Every gentleman who passed her during the evening had looked his
homage freely--old beaux, dignitaries, officers, foreign deputies, roués--and as she had been
two or three winters in that kind of society, nothing discomposed her.

"Robert," she said, with part of a glance, as Utie rejoined her, "you go to the punch-bowl
too much. You reflect upon me, sir. Besides, I heard you quarrelling with that handsome officer.
I am dying to know him. Who is he?"

Utie looked viciously up, anger and jealousy inflaming his heated face, for, although he had
no engagement with Miss Rideau, he conceived himself her future suitor. But some rash words
that he said against the officer were scarcely heard by the self-possessed beauty of official
society, because, just then, the young officer and a friend were approaching them. She dropped
her eyes when she met Lieutenant Dibdo's bold glance of admiration, perhaps in order not to
be privy to the more searching look with which, like a gentleman of the world, he ran over
the fine points of her plump body as he passed. But young Utie, seeing the offender of a moment
ago taking such ardent and leisurely survey of the girl under his care, turned pale with hate.
The officer did not notice him at all, absorbed in the fine colors, eyes, and proportions of
Miss Rideau, and this further outraged Utie who--to his credit be it said--had only modest
thoughts for her. When he saw, however, that she looked after the manly figure and naval gilt
of him of the profane eyes, as if to return his admiration, the intoxicated boy dropped an oath.

"I will horsewhip that powder-monkey!" he said.

"Robert," said the girl placidly, "you won't. You have no horse and no horsewhip, but you have
been drinking. Go from me, sir! Some one else shall see me home to-night."

"I will kill the man who takes my place! Do you dare to speak that way to me?"

He had raised his voice, in his rage, so that some others heard it. There was a little pause
of pressing people, for that was a chivalrous age as to the manner of men to women, and the
young officer, just then returning, availed himself of a pretty girl's dilemma to say:

"May I assist you, miss? I presume you are not in very agreeable company."

"Thank you, sir," answered Miss Rideau. "I would be obliged to have some one find my aunt for
me; she is here somewhere."

"Will you accept a stranger's arm?"

"In this misfortune, I will."

Dibdo took off the pretty girl, and one of his naval companions, looking after him, exclaimed,
"What a genius Dib. is with the ladies!" But the companion, feeling a trembling, unsteady hand
upon his arm, turned about and met young Utie's desperate face. "I want to know the name of
that fellow!" said Utie.

"That is Charles Dibdo," said the naval companion, "lieutenant of the United States frigate
Fox, and I recommend you, my boy, to address him in a civil tone. For me, I never mind a drunken
man."

Thoroughly demonized now, young Robert Utie turned blindly about for some implement of revenge.
He found it in Tiltock, a fellow-clerk, a novitiate and a ninny, who was visible in the crowd.

"Tiltock, are you a man of honor?"

"I hope so, Bob."

"Can you carry a challenge?"

"Oh yes! I guess so, to 'blige a ole friend."

"Can you write it?"

"I'm afraid not."

"Then take it by word of mouth. That scoundrel there, Lieutenant Dibdo, has insulted a lady,
and me too. I must have his blood. Follow him up, and meet me at Gadsby's with his answer."

Full of self-importance at this first and safe opportunity to stand upon what is known as "the
field of honor," Tiltock kept the lieutenant in his eye, and took him finally aside and demanded
a meeting in the name of Utie. The naval officer answered that he had simply relieved a lady
from a drunken boy; but Tiltock, in the dramatic way common to halcyon old times, refused to
accept either "drunken" or "boy" as terms appropriate to "the code," and pressed for an answer.
In five minutes the naval officer replied, through his naval companion, that having ascertained
Mr. Utie to be a gentleman's son, and he as an United States officer not being able to decline
a challenge, the latter was accepted. The weapons were to be pistols, the place the usual ground
at Bladensburg, and the time the afternoon of the next day.

There was a good deal of drinking and boasting at the hotels that night, Utie and Tiltock telling
everybody, as a particular secret, that there was to be "an 'fah honah," otherwise a "juel,"
at "Bladensburg, sah!" The gin-drinking, cock-fighting, sporting element of the town was aroused,
and Utie and Tiltock were invited on all sides to imbibe to the significant toast of "The Field."
Very noisy, very insolent, nuisances indeed, these two mere lads--the offspring of a vain and
ignorant social period of which some elements yet remain--borrowed the money to hire a carriage,
and at midnight they set out with some associates by the old, rutty, clay road for the Maryland
village of Bladensburg. That night they caroused until Nature, despite her revolt, put them
to bed. In the morning, with a swollen and sallow face, dry hair, unsteady hands, aching eyes
and dim vision, Robert Utie awoke to the recollection of his folly and his rashness, and he
realized the critical period which he had provoked. His clerkship lost, his self-pride poignant,
his pockets nearly empty, his respectable career irretrievably terminated, his sweetheart insulted,
and his life in danger! There was no escape either from despair or fate. Tiltock was strutting
about below stairs with a drunken old doctor, misnamed a surgeon, who deposited behind the
bar a rusty case of surgical instruments, and who took a deep potation to the toast of "The
fawchuns of waw." The Bladensburg people were well aware of the occasion, and the old tavern
was surrounded by loafers and gossips, many of whom were boys who had walked out from the city
as we go to prize-fights in our day. To fill up the time a dog-fight and a chicken-fight were
improvised by the enterprising stable-boys in the back yard, on the green slopes of the running
Branch. While Tiltock strutted out of town at an imposing pace to examine "The Field," Robert
Utie retired to his room, sought with an emetic to relieve his stomach, and then sat down to
write some letters and an epitaph. The paper was thin, and the pen and ink matched it, but
the drunken boy's eyes marred more than all; for suddenly the secret fountains of his lost
youth were touched as by the prick of his pen, and the drops gushed out upon the two words
he had written:

"Dear mother--"

Not his sweetheart, who was nothing to him now; not his "honor," which had been only vain-glory
and deceit; not any thing but this earliest, everlasting faith which is ours forever, whether
we be steadfast or go astray: the tie of home, of childhood, and of our mother's prayer and
kiss--this was the soft reproach which glided between a wasted youth and the "field of valor"
he had tempted. He wept. He sobbed. He threw himself upon the bed, and pressing his temples
into the ragged quilt, felt the panorama of childhood pass across his mind like something cool,
sorrowful, and compassionate. The sickness she had cured, the bad words she had taken from
his undutiful lips, the whipping she had saved him from at the cost of her deceit, the lie
she had never told him, the tears he had found her shedding upon her knees when first he had
been drinking, the money he had never given her out of his salary but had spent with idlers,
his ruined soul which to that mother's thought was pure as a baby's still, and watched by all
the angels of God: these were admonitions from the green meadows of childhood. Before was the
barren field of honor.

How short is the struggle betwixt youth and selfishness, that sum of all diseases and crimes;
that selfishness out of which wars arise and hell is habitated!

A poor, overworked Christian negro, a slave in the tavern, hearing the sobbing of Robert Utie
and aware that one of the duellists occupied that room, lifted the latch, and wakened the wretched
boy from his remorse.

"Young moss," he said, "doan you fight no juels! Oh! doan do it, for de bressed Lord's sake!
It's nuffin but pride and sin. Yo's only a pore, spilt boy, but you got a soul, young moss!
Doan you go git kilt in dat ar bloody gully wha' so many gits hurt amoss to deff!"

Utie arose from the dream of home, and kicked the poor slave out of the room. He then drank,
speculated upon his chances, practised with an imaginary pistol at the wall, and meditated
running away, alternately, until Tiltock's business-step rang in the hall.

"Bob," he said, "we've picked you a beautiful piece of ground, and the other party's waiting.
It's the most popular juel of the season."

They walked up the sandy village street, under the old hip-roofed houses, crossed the Branch
bridge, and proceeded a quarter of a mile on the road to Washington. There, where a rivulet
crossed the road amongst some bushes, they descended by a path into a copse, and on to a green
meadow-space cleared away by former rain freshets. Farm boys, town boys, and intruders of all
sorts were lurking near. The field of honor resembled a gypsy camp.

Lieutenant Dibdo's companion came up to Tiltock and said that his friend did not wish to fight,
and would make any manly apology, even though unconscious of offence, if the challenge was
withdrawn. The crowd was ardent for the fight, and Tiltock, who was punctilious about honor,
particularly where he could cut a safe figure, repelled the compromise, as "unwarranted by
the code." He knew as much about the code as about honor, and more about both than about getting
a living.

"Then," said the lieutenant, "I am authorized to say that my principal will take Mr. Utie's
first fire. Let him improve the generous chance as he will. The second time we will make business
of it."

The interlopers fell back. The word was given: "Ready--Aim--Fire!" Robert Utie, sustained by
braggadocio, that quality which makes murderers die on the scaffold heroically, fired full
at the body of Lieutenant Dibdo. That officer fired into the air and remained unmoved and unharmed.

"Is another shot demanded?"

"Yes," said Tiltock, "our honor is not yet satisfied."

He waved the crowd back in an imperious way--they having rushed in after the first shot--and
he gave the word himself like a dramatic reading.

Robert Utie looked, and this time with a livid, sobered face, into the open pistol of the man
he had provoked, the professional officer of death. The fine, cool face behind the pistol was
concise, grave, and eloquent now as a judge's pronouncing the last sentence of the law. The
next instant the boy was biting and clawing at the ground in mortal agony. The impatient crowd
rushed in. A faint voice was heard to gasp for what some said was "water" and some thought
was "mother." Then a figure with a dissipated face a little dignified by death, and with some
of the softness of childhood glimmering in it, like the bright footfall of the good angel whose
mission was done and whose flight was taken--this figure lay upon its back amongst the bushes,
under the sunshine, peeped at by distant hills, contemplated by idlers as if it were the body
of a slain game-chicken, and the drunken "surgeon" was idiotically feeling for its heart.

"Gentlemen," said Tiltock with a flourish, "we are all witnesses that every thing has been
honorably conducted."

The city had its little talk. The newspapers in those days were models of what is called high-toned
journalism, and printed nothing on purely personal matters like duels when requested to respect
the feelings of families. As if "the feelings of families" were not the main cause of duels!
There was a mother somewhere, still clinging with her prayers to the footstool of God, hoping
for the soul of her boy even after death and wickedness. This was all, except the revolution
of the world, and the wedding in due time upon it of Lieutenant Dibdo and Miss Rideau. It was
what was called a romantic wedding.

LEGEND OF FUNKSTOWN.

I.

    Nick Hammer sat in Funkstown
      Before his tavern door--
    The same old blue-stone tavern
      The wagoners knew of yore,
    When the Conestoga schooners
      Came staggering under their load,
    And the lines of slow pack-horses
      Stamped over the National Road.

    Nick Hammer and son together,
      Both blowing pipe-smoke there,
    Like a pair of stolid limekilns,
      In the blue South Mountain air;
    And the mills of the Antietam,
      Grinding the Dunker's wheat
    So oldly and so slowly,
      Groaned up the deserted street.

    "What think'st thou, Nick, my father?"
      Said Nick, the old man's twin.
    "This whole year thou art silent.
      Let a little speech begin.
    Thou think'st the bar draws little;
      That the stables are empty yet,
    And the growing pride of Hagerstown,
      Thou can'st not that forget."

    "Thou liest, Nick, my little boy;
      For Hager's bells I hear
    Like the bells of olden travel,
      Forgot upon mine ear.
    In a wonderful thing once asked him
      Thy dear old daddy is sunk--
    I have sot here a year and wondered
      Who the devil was Mr. Funk!"

II.

    "A year ago I was smoking,
      When a strange young fellow came by.
    He was taking notes on paper,
      And the rum in his'n was rye.
    Says he: 'I'm a writin' a hist'ry'--
      'Twas then I thought he was drunk--
    'And I want to see your graveyard,
      And the tomb of your founder, Funk!'

    "I think if he'd sot there, sonny,
      I'd looked at him a week;
    But he wanished tow'rd the graveyard,
      Before your daddy could speak.
    Directly back he tumbled,
      Before I had quit my stare,
    And he says: 'I'm disappinted!
      No Funk is buried in there.'

    "'The Funks is all up-country'--
      That's all I could think to say,
    'There never was Funks in Funkstown,
      And there ain't any Funks to-day.'
    'Why man,' he says, 'the city
      That stands on Potomac's shores
    Was settled by Funk, the elder,
      Who afterward settled yours!

    "'The Carrols, they bust him yonder;
      Old Hager, he bust him here;
    But my heart will bust till I find him,
      And make a sketch of his bier.
    Oh shame on the Funkstown spirit
      That in Maryland does dwell!
    He wouldn't consent to be buried
      Where you can keep a hotel.'"

III.

    "There's John Stocklager, daddy,"
      Said young Nick, thinking much;
    "A hundred years he's settled
      Amongst the mountain Dutch.
    Ask him!" "Nay, young Nick Hammer,
      You young fellows run too fast:
    I shall set out here a thinking,
      And maybe Funk'll go past!"

IV.

    He drank and smoked and pondered,
      And deep in the mystery sunk;
    And the more Nick Hammer wondered
      The duller he grew about Funk.
    The wagoners talked it over,
      And a new idea to trace
    Enlivened the dead old village
      Like a new house built in the place.

V.

    One day in June two wagons
      Came over Antietam bridge
    And a tall old man behind them
      Strode up the turnpike ridge.
    His beard was long and grizzled,
      His face was gnarled and long,
    His voice was keen and nasal,
      And his mouth and eye were strong.

    One wagon was full of boxes
      And the other full of poles,
    As the weaver's wife discovered
      While the weaver took the tolls.
    Two young men drove the horses,
      And neither the people knew;
    But young Nick asked a question
      And that old man looked him through.

    A little feed they purchased,
      And their teams drank in the creek,
    And to and fro they travelled
      As silently for a week--
    Went southward laden heavy,
      And northward always light,
    And the gnarled old man aye with them,
      With the long beard flowing white.

    From Sharpsburg up to Cavetown
      The story slowly rolled--
    That old man knew the mountains
      Were filled with ore of gold.
    The boxes held his crucibles;
      'Twas haunted where he trod;
    And every shafted pole he brought
      Was a divining rod!

    And none knew whence he came there,
      Nor they his course who took,
    Down the road to Harper's Ferry,
      In a shaggy mountain nook;
    But Nick the Sire grew certain,
      While from his eye he shrunk,
    That old man was none other
      Than the missing Mr. Funk:

    The famous city-builder
      Who once had pitched upon
    The sunny ledge of Funkstown,
      And the site of Washington.
    Again he was returning
      To the Potomac side,
    To found a temple in the hills
      Before he failed and died!

    And Nick laughed gently daily
      That he alone had guessed
    The mystery of the elder Funk
      That had puzzled all the rest.
    And younger Nick thought gently:
      "Since that chap asked for Funk
    There's been commotion in this town,
      And daddy's always drunk."

VI.

    But once the ring of rapid hoofs
      Came sudden in the night,
    And on the Blue Ridge summits flashed
      The camp-fire's baleful light.
    Young Nick was in the saddle,
      With half the valley men,
    To find that old man's fighting sons
      Who kept the ferry glen.

    And like the golden ore that grew
      To his divining rod,
    The shining, armed soldiery
      Swarmed o'er the clover sod;
    O'er Crampton's gap the columns fought,
      And by Antietam fords,
    Till all the world, Nick Hammer thought,
      At Funkstown had drawn swords.

VII.

    Together, as in quiet days
      Before the battle's roar,
    Nick Hammer and his one-legg'd son
      Smoked by the tavern door.
    The dead who slept on Sharpsburg Heights
      Were not more still than they;
    They leaned together like the hills,
      But nothing had to say;

    Save once, as at his wooden stump
      The young man looked awhile,
    And damned the man who made that war--
      He saw Nick Hammer smile.
    "My little boy," the old man said,
      "Think long as I have thunk--
    You'll find this war rests on the head
      Of that 'air Mister Funk!"

JUDGE WHALEY'S DEMON.

In the little town of Chester, near the Bay of Chesapeake, lived an elegant man, with the softest
manners in the world and a shadow forever on his countenance. He bore a blameless character
and an honored name. He had one son of the same name as his own, Perry Whaley. This son was
forever with him, for use or for pleasure; they could not be happy separated, nor congenial
together. A destiny seemed to unite them, but with it also a baleful memory. The negroes whispered
that in the boy's conception and birth was a secret of shame; he was not this father's son,
and his mother had confessed it.

That mother was gone--fled to a distant part of the world with her betrayer--and the divorce
was recorded while yet young Perry Whaley was a babe. But the boy never knew it: his origin
reposed in the sensitive memory of his father only, and every day the father looked at the
son long and distantly, and the son at the father with a most affectionate longing.

"Papa," he would say, "can't you try to love me? Do I disobey you? I am sure I am always unhappy
out of your sight."

The father could not do without that boy, but could only hate him. "My son," he would reply,
"you are obedient, but a demon! I could not love you if I would!"

"Never mind then, father, I can wait. There is plenty of time in life to make you love me!"

Judge Whaley--for he had been on the bench--was the highest example in Maryland of honor and
pride. A General of militia, often in the Legislature, and once or twice a Senator at Washington,
he had all the shattered sensibilities of a proud man wounded in the soul. Age was coming untimely
upon his high temples and shadowed countenance, and as he walked along the market-place and
green court-house yard, polite to men, boys, and negroes, they said in low tones, "Pity such
a real gentleman can't be happy!"

In public affairs Judge Whaley was not silent: he led his party with intrepid utterances, and
his prejudices, like his intellect, were strong; but though the election sometimes hung by
a few votes, and his influence then gave every temptation on the part of low speakers and writers
to allude to his domestic dishonor, the vile reminiscence was never mentioned. A profound respect
for the man permeated society, and in his unsmiling way he was kind to whites and blacks. A
slaveholder, and at the head of the principal slave-holding connection, and the particular
champion in that region of slavery privileges, he would take his Bible and visit the cottages
of his negroes and read to them even when sick of contagious fevers. He defended poor clients
freely in the courts, and fought for the lives of free negroes under capital indictments. He
was of the vestry of the aged Episcopal Church, which dominated the social influence of the
town, and never omitted attendance on all the services, but with the shadow forever on his
brow. Young Perry went everywhere with his father, and chattered and was active to oblige him,
and sometimes by his boyish humor made a little light weaken the strong edges of that paternal
shadow; but in a few minutes, looking up into the Judge's face, he would see that distant,
accusing look returned again.

A great desire sprang up in the boy's heart to be fully loved by his father. He looked at other
boys and saw that they received from their fathers a treatment not more gentle, but more real,
as if a deep well of feeling lay in those parents which could send up cool water or tears,
either in disagreement or sympathy. Young Perry had his own horse and his negro, and was the
only inhabitant, besides the Judge, of the old black brick, square, colonial house on the brink
of the river--that house whence the light had gone in lurid flight when the young wife, in
the bravado of her shame, departed forever.

Judge Whaley was able, with his intellectual sympathy, to observe that his boy was apt and
right-minded.

Perry read law precociously, and liked it. He was the best juvenile debater in the little old
college on the slight hill overlooking the town. His appearance was good, and he had a cheerful
nature; yet nowhere, among beautiful girls or riding companions, gunning on the river, crabbing
on the bridge, or skating on the meadows, was he half so happy as with his father.

"Well, Perry," the Judge would say, "how is my demon to-day--what is he studying now?"

"Studying you, papa; I don't understand you."

"The time will come, alas for you!" exclaimed the Judge.

"Do I displease you in any thing I do?"

"No, my son."

"Do you believe I love you?"

"Yes, I do believe it. I wish, Perry, it could be returned."

The son, under the influence of this discouraging confidence, became serious and melancholy.
He would take his gun on his shoulder and wade out into the meadow marshes, as if for game,
and there would be seen by other gunners sitting on some old pier or perched on some worm fence,
looking straight up at the sky, as if it might answer the riddle of his father's hate and his
own unreciprocated affection. He would also, on rainy or cold days, when the inmates could
not stir abroad, mount his horse and ride to the almshouse beyond the town mill, and, taking
a pleasant story or ballad from his pocket, read to the huddled paupers, as well as to the
keeper's family, attracted by his pleasant condescension. By degrees the boy's face also took
the shadow worn by his father.

"Oh, if they could only love!" remarked the old people around the court-house; "or if they
only could admit the real love between them!"

The Judge never admitted it; that seemed to be a part of his religion, a duty to himself, if
painful, and the son never woke nor retired to rest without searching in that paternal shadow
for the kindly gleam of awakened love, yet ever kissed the shadow only, and a brow that was cold.

One Christmas Day the river was frozen--a rare event in that genial latitude, and hearing that
wild geese were flying down toward the bay creeks and coves, the Judge took his gun and a negro
and set off, without waiting for Perry, who was not immediately to be found. An hour later
the boy returned and heard of his father's departure, and started on horseback to overtake
the carriage. He followed the track beyond the mill and almshouse, and across the heads of
several peninsulas or necks leading into the wide tidal river. A few frosted persimmons hung
yet to their warty branches; the hulls of last autumn's black walnuts were beneath the spreading
boughs; old orchards of peach-trees where the tints of green and bud smouldered in pink contrast
to the oft-blackened and sapless branches, set off the purple beads of the haw on the bushes
along the lanes. Fish-hawks, flying across the sky, felt the shadow of the flocks of wild ducks
flying higher; and rabbits crossed the road so boldly in the face of Perry Whaley, that once
a raccoon, limping across a cornfield like a lame spaniel, turned too and took both barrels
of Perry's gun without other fright or injury than slightly to hurry its pace. As the young
man heard the crows chatter around the corn-shocks and the mocking-bird in some alder-thicket
answer and sauce the catbird's scream, he said to himself:

"Every thing is attached by an inner chord to something else, and that other thing, free-hearted,
carols or quarrels back--except father to me. Can I not, too, find something to love me? There
is Marion, the Doctor's daughter, with the chestnut curls falling all round her neck--she loves
me, I know; but until I gain my father's love I cannot think of woman!"

The pine-trees above his head murmured rather than moaned, as if they strongly sympathized
with him and would presently make loud and angry cause against his enemies. "What is it," asked
Perry of his unsuspecting mind, "which makes my father so unappeasable? What is there in me
which broods upon his just and honorable life, and which he cannot drive away though he tries?
Has he some learned superstition, some religious vow or mistaken sacrifice?"

Perry turned down a lane and then into the bed of a frozen brook, and coming in sight of the
broad river, espied his father, gun in hand, stealthily creeping under a load of brush and
twigs which the Judge's negro had piled about his back and head, to conceal his figure from
a flock of ducks that were bathing and diving in an open place of deep water, to which the
ice had not extended.

The gliding brush heap, by slow and flitting advances, had progressed about to within gunshot
of the scarce suspecting fowls, and Perry and the negro, from different sides of the cove,
watched with the keenest interest--when suddenly, with very little noise, the ice gave way
and Judge Whaley had sunk in deep water, loaded down with heavy gunning boots, shot-belt, overcoat
and gun. The negro stood paralyzed a minute and then fell upon his knees, unknowing what to
do. A sense of joy started in Perry Whaley's breast as strong as his apprehensive fears. He
might be made the instrument of saving that beloved life, and dissipating the spell of its
indifference!

Nothing but this ardent passion saved Perry himself from drowning. He had crossed the cove
ere yet the impulse of parental recognition had taken form, and throwing a rein from the carriage
around the negro man's armpits, and seizing a long fence-rail, ran rapidly across, pulling
both toward the point of danger.

Judge Whaley had been a powerful man and an accomplished sportsman; and still as resolute as
in youth, struggled with all intelligence for his life. He sank to the bottom on first breaking
through the ice, then reaching upward made two or three powerful efforts to catch the rim of
the ice-field and sank again in each endeavor, weighted down with leather and iron. He had
sunk to rise no more when Perry reached the edge of the field, placed the end of the rail over
the abyss and planted the negro's weight upon it, and then he dived, head foremost, into the
freezing salt depths--where the tide was running--and with the carriage rein looped in his
right hand. Before he could lay hand upon his father, that desperate man had seized him by
the hair and drawn his head to the bottom, and every instant Perry felt that his remainder
of breath was almost run unless he could break that iron hold. Even in that instant of agony,
with death painting its awful pageantry on his interior sight, Perry felt a gladder kind of
destiny; that perhaps the arms of a father's love were around him, and in another sphere, already
about to dawn, the shadow might depart from that kind face and unyearning heart.

But with a sense of more human dutifulness, Perry recalled his residuum of perception. It was
necessary to break that drowning man's grapple upon his hair, and taking the only way, if cruel,
to assist his father, the young man struck the elder's knuckles with his clinched fist. As
they released the rein was thrown about Judge Whaley's shoulders and run through the buckle,
and as his rescuer, almost exhausted, swam upward, he made the rein fast to his ankle and seized
hold of the rail. Here occurred another agonizing delay. The negro could not pull the rail
in, between his own fears and the double burden; the young man was exhausted and cramped with
cold, and every instant his father, still submerged, was drowning. At this moment when the
renewed probability of death brought no compensations of a tender sentiment, it pleased the
tide to whirl Judge Whaley's body inwards, directly beneath the ice-field, and he being now
insensible, if alive at all, the negro clutched it effectually. In the awakened pain and hope
of that minute, Perry Whaley supported himself along the piece of rail to the solid ice, and
assisted to draw his father from the water, and then swooned dead. They lay together, the unwelcome
son and the repelling father, under the universal pity of the great eye of Heaven, on the natal
day of Him who came into the world also fatherless, but not disowned.

A neighboring farmer sent one of his boys to Chester for the doctor, and by rubbing and restoratives,
both the Judge and his son were brought back to circulation and pulsation. Perry soon recovered,
but Judge Whaley was saved only with the greatest difficulty. It was nightfall in the hospitable
farm-house before he was able to see or speak, and then, a little drunken with the spirits
which had been administered, he asked in a whisper:

"Who saved my life?"

"Who but your son Perry?" answered the cheerful Doctor Voss. "You were both wrapped together
for a long while in the bottom of the cove!"

"My son!" exclaimed Judge Whaley, scarcely understanding the reply. "Who is my son?"

"Here, father! We are both alive. Thank God!"

"My son?" muttered Judge Whaley. "Brave son! Who is it?"

"Why, Perry Whaley!" answered the good housewife. "His arms are around your neck. Those warm
kisses were his!"

The sick man glared about him till his eye fell on the boy.

"Ha!" he whispered. "By you. Had I awakened in heaven would you have been there, too?"

The Judge sank back into a moment's insensibility, and the son sat there sobbing piteously.

Though saved from the wave Judge Whaley had a long following spell of fever, in which his son
nursed him for many weeks, and once the spark of life seemed to have fled; the Judge's pulse
stopped still, and while they were at solemn prayer--the rector of the Episcopal Church reading
from his book--Perry cried: "He still lives. It is the medicine he needs!"

After the second resuscitation Dr. Voss remarked: "It is not often, Judge Whaley, that a man's
life is twice saved by his son!"

Tears were no longer in Perry's eyes; he had heard his father in delirium constantly repeat
his name. After the Judge's recovery he placed in Perry's pocket a fine English watch, and
gave him a pair of horses and a stylish wagon.

"Hereafter," he said, "you shall take charge of the property. My son, look about you and find
a wife! In your character you are deserving of a good one, for I fear the affection you are
seeking can never arise in my heart enough to satisfy you. Gratitude and respect are always
here, my son, but love has been a stranger to me these many years. I wish you to marry while
I live, and be happy in some good woman's affection. I may die and you may not become my heir!
There is the doctor's beautiful daughter; she has my decided approval!"

"If it is your wish, father, I will marry."

The day Perry Whaley was admitted to the bar of Kent County on motion of his father, he stopped
with his pair of horses at Doctor Voss's house, and asked Miss Marion to take a drive. She
was a peerless brunette, whose dark brown curls taking the light upon their luxuriance seemed
the rippling of water from the large amber wells of her eyes. In childhood she had looked with
admiration on his straight, trim figure and manly courtesy, and hoped that she might find favor
in his sight. For this she had put by the scant opportunities in a small, old, unvisited town,
to be wedded to her equals, and the whispered imputation that there was a taint in Perry Whaley's
blood made no impression upon her wishes. Her younger sisters were gone before her, but true
to the impetuous tendencies of her childhood she waited for Perry, indulging the dream that
she was destined to be his wife.

The happy, supreme opportunity had come. They took the road over the river drawbridge into
another county; the frost was out of the ground, and the loamy road invited the horses to their
speed until the breath of spring raised in Marion's cheeks the color that dressed the budding
peach orchards which spread over the whole landscape, as if Nature was in maternity and her
rosy breasts were full of milk.

"Do you like these horses, Marion?" said Perry Whaley, when they had gone several miles. "If
you do you can drive them as long as you live."

She laughed, more because it was the feminine way than in her feeling.

"Drive them alone?"

"Only when you do not want me to go."

"Then it will seldom be alone, Perry."

They both breathed short in silence, the happy silence of youth's desire and assent, until
Perry said, "You are sure you love me, then?"

"Must I be frank, Perry?"

"As much as ever in your life!"

"I am very sure. I loved you in my childhood--no more now than then, except that the growth
of love has strengthened with my strength."

"Marion," said the young man with a thoughtful face, "if I have not long ago recognized this
fidelity, which, to be also frank with you, I have suspected--not because of any desert of
mine, but love is like the light which we distinctly feel even with our eyes shut--it has been
because with all my soul I was laboring for my father's love first. You have seen the shadow
on his brow? How it came there I do not know. I have thought that with my wife to light the
dark chambers of our old house, a triple love would bloom there, and what he has called the
demon in me would disappear beneath your beautiful ministrations. Be that angel to both of
us, and as my wife touch the fountain of his tears and make his noble heart embrace me!"

Marion Voss felt a great sense of trouble. "Is it possible," she thought, "that Perry has never
suspected the cause of that shadow on the Judge's life? Perhaps not! It would have been cruel
to tell Perry, but crueller, perhaps, to let him grow to manhood in unchallenged pride and
find it out at such a critical time." The rest of the ride passed in endearments and the engagement
vow was made.

"My dear one," said Marion, as they rolled on the bridge at Chester, and the few lights of
the town and of the vessels and the single steamboat descended into the river, "had you not
better have an understanding with your father on the subject of his affection? Perhaps you
have talked in riddles. Something far back may have disturbed your mutual faith. Whatever it
is, nothing shall break my promise to you. I will be your wife, or no man's. But the shadow
that is on Judge Whaley's face I fear no wife can drive away."

These words disturbed young Perry Whaley, as he drove his horses into the hotel stable and
slowly pursued his way across the public plot or area, past the old square brick Methodist
church, already lighted brightly for a special evening service, though it was a week-day. He
passed next the small, echoing market-house and the Episcopal church, and court-house yard.
Every thing he saw had at that moment the appearance of something so very vivid and real that
it frightened him. Yonder was the spot where, with other boys, he had burned tar-barrels on
election nights; up a lane the jail where he had seen the prisoners flatten their noses against
the bars to beg tobacco; a tall Lombardy poplar at a corner stood stolid except at its summit,
where a portion of the foliage whispered with a freshening sound. How still; as if every thing
was in suspense like him--the favorite of the old town for so many years, and soon to become
the possessor of its most beautiful and virtuous woman!

He sounded the knocker at the door of the square, solid brick mansion, built while all acknowledged
the King of Britain here, and in whose threshold General Washington had stood more than once.
His father admitted him directly into a prim, wainscoted room with a square-angled stairway
in the corner leading above; a thick rag carpet was on the floor; the furniture was mahogany
and hair-cloth; on the wall were portraits of the Whaleys or Whalleys, back to that regicide
who fled from the vengeance of King Charles's sons, and, escaping many perils in New England,
lived unrecognized on this peninsula.

Judge Whaley had lighted a large oil lamp, and its shade threw the flame upon his strong magisterial
face, wherein grief and righteousness seemed as highly blent as in some indigent republican
Milton or Pym.

"My father," said Perry Whaley with the tender tone habitual to him, "I have consulted your
wishes as well as my desire. Marion Voss will be my wife."

"It is well, my son," replied Judge Whaley, placing upon his nose his first pair of silver
spectacles. "You are entitled to so much beauty and grace on every ground of a dutiful youth
and agreeable person, and of talents which will make both of you a comfortable livelihood."

"Father, with so great a change of relations before me, I desire to obtain your whole confidence."

Perry's voice trembled; the Judge sat still as one of the brazen andirons where the wood burned
with a colorless flame in the fireplace. The father took off the spectacles and laid them down.

"Confidence in what respect, Perry?"

The young man walked to his father and knelt at his knee and clasped his hand. Even then Perry
saw the shadow gather in that kind man's brow, as if he perceived the demon in his son.

"Before I make a lady my wife, father, I want every mystery of my life related. I have always
heard that my mother died. Where is she buried?"

There was a long pause.

"She is not dead," said Judge Whaley, without any inflection, "except to me."

"Not dead, father?" asked the son, with throbbing temples. "Oh, why have I been so deceived?
Were you unhappy?"

"I thought I was happy," said the Judge huskily; "that was long my impression."

"And my mother--was she, too, happy when you were so?"

"No."

The young man rose and walked to the wainscot and back again. "Dear father, I see the origin
of the shadow upon your brow. Why was I not told before? Perhaps the son of two unhappy parents
might have brought them together again, if for no other congenial end, than that he was their
only son!"

The Judge raised his eyes to the imploring eyes of the younger man. The shadow never was so
deep upon his brow as Perry saw it now; it was the shadow of a long inured agony intensified
by a dread judicial sympathy.

"You are not my son!" he said.

Perry's mouth opened, but not to articulate. He stretched out his hands to touch something,
and that only which he could not reach struck and stunned him; he had fallen senseless to the
floor.

When Perry returned to knowledge he was lying upon the carpet, a cloak under his head, and
his father, walking up and down, stooped over him frequently to look into his face with a tender,
yet suffering interest. The young man did not move, and only revealed his wakefulness at last
by raising his hand to check a relieving flow of tears.

"My dear boy," finally said Judge Whaley, himself shedding tears, "I had supposed that you
already knew something of the tragedy of my life."

"Never," moaned Perry.

"Then, forgive me; I should myself have gradually told you the tale; it might have come up
with your growth, inwoven like a mere ghost story. Did no playmate, no older intimate, not
one of your age striving for the bar, ever whisper to you that I had been deceived, and that
you, my only comfort, were the fruit of the deception?"

"No, sir." Perry's tears seemed to dry in the recollection. "We were both gentlemen--at least,
after we reached this world. No one ever insulted me nor you! I humbly thank God that, discredited
as I may have been, my conduct to all was so considerate that no one could obtrude such a truth
upon me. Is it the truth? O father!--I must call you so! it is the only word I know--is this,
at last, one of the dreadful visions of diseased sleep or of insanity? Who am I? What was my
mother? I can bear it all, for now I have seen why you never loved me."

Perry, pale as death and still of feeble brain, had arisen as he spoke and made this imploration
with only the eloquence of haggard forgetfulness. The Judge took Perry's hands and supported him.

"My son, have I not earned the name of father? Yes, I have plucked the poison-arrow from my
heart and sucked its venom. I have taken the offspring of my injurer and warmed it in my bosom.
Every morning when you arose I was reminded of my dishonor. Every night when we kissed good-night,
I felt, God knows, that I had loved my enemies and done good to them which injured me!"

The young man, looking up and around in the impotence of expression, saw the portraits of the
dead Whaleys in unbroken lineal respectability, bending their eyes upon him--the one, the only
impostor of the name!

"Perry," continued the Judge, "I am not wholly guilty of keeping you blind. I have told you
many times that between us was a gap, a rift of something. I have sometimes said, as your artless
caresses, mixed with the bitter recollection of your origin, almost dispossessed my reason,
that you were 'my demon.'"

"Yes, father; but I was so anxious to love you that I never brooded on that. I see it all!
Every repulse comes back to me now. You have suffered, indeed, and been the Christian. But
I must hear the tale before I depart."

"Depart! Where?"

"To find my mother, if she lives. To find my name! I cannot bear this one. It would be deceit."

"Not even the name of My Son?"

"Alas! no. Just as I am I must be known. My putative father, if he lives, must give me another
name."

"Thank God, Perry, he is dead!"

"But not his name. I can make honorable even my--"

"Say it not!" exclaimed the Judge, placing his hand upon Perry's mouth. "Pure as all your life
has been, you shall not degrade it with such a word. Oh, my son!--my orphan son!--dear faithful
prattler around my feet for all these desolate and haunted years, I have doubted for your sake
every thing--that wedlock was good, that pride of virtuous origin was wise, that human jealousy
was any thing but a tiger's selfishness. I did not sow the seed that brought you forth; too
well I know it! Yet grateful and fair has been the vine as if watered by the tears of angels;
and when I sleep the demon in you fades, and then, at least, your loving tendrils find all
my nature an arbor to take you up!"

"Would to God!" said Perry bitterly, "that in the sleep of everlasting death we laid together.
O my God! how I have loved you--father!"

The Judge enfolded the young man in his arms and like a child Perry rested there. The lamp,
previously burning very low, went out for want of oil, as the old man nursed like his own babe
the serpent's offspring, not his own but another's untimely son, bred on the honor of a husband's
name. As they sat in the perfect darkness of the old riverside mansion, Judge Whaley told his tale.

He had neglected to marry until he had become of settled legal and business habits, and more
than forty-five years of age when he chose for a wife a young lady who professed to admire
and love him. They had no children. The wife was a coquette, and began to woo admiration almost
as soon as the nuptials were done. Judge Whaley thought nothing ill of this; he was in the
heyday of his practice and willing to let one so much his junior enjoy herself. Among his law
students was a young man from South Carolina, of brilliant manners and insidious address. This
person had already become so intimate with Mrs. Whaley as to draw upon the Judge anonymous
letters notifying him that he was too indifferent, to which letters he gave no attention, only
bestowing the more confidence and freedom upon her, when, happily, as it was thought, the wife
showed signs of maternity. Perry was born, to the joy of his father. The young mother, however,
hastened to recover her health and gayety. The favor she expressed for the student's society
was revived and not opposed by her husband. Judge Whaley returned unexpectedly one day to his
residence; he came upon a scene that in an instant destroyed faith and rendered explanation
impossible. His wife was false. The student passionately avowed himself her seducer. The Judge
went through the ordeal like a magistrate.

"Take her away with you," he said. "That is the only reparation you can do her, until she is
legally divorced, and after that, if necessary, I will give her an allowance, but she cannot
rest under this roof another night. It has been the abode of chaste wives since it was builded.
My honor is at stake. This day she must go. Make her your wife and let neither ever return."

They departed by carriage, unknown to any, and never had returned. But a few weeks after they
disappeared a letter was received by Judge Whaley, admonishing him that his son was the offspring
of the same illegal relations. It was signed and written by his wife. The wretched man debated
whether he should send the infant to an asylum or keep it upon his premises. Through procrastination,
continued for twenty years, the child had derived all the advantages of legitimacy, and still
the demon of the husband's peace was the test of the gentleman's religion.

As this story had proceeded toward its final portions, the young man had detached himself from
his father's arms. When Judge Whaley concluded in the darkness he waited in vain for a response.
The old man lighted the lamp and peered about the room wistfully. Perry was gone.

That night, in the happiness of her engagement, Marion Voss had a glad unrest, which her mother
noticed. "Dear," said the mother, "let us go over to the Methodist church. It is one of their
protracted meetings or revivals, as they call it. If Perry comes he will know where to find
us, as I will leave word."

The Methodists were second in social standing, but a wide gap separated them from the slave-holding
and family aristocracy, who were Episcopalians. The sermon was delivered by one of their most
powerful proselytizers, an old man in a homespun suit, high shoulders, lean, long figure, and
glittering eyes. He was a wild kind of orator, striking fear to the soul, dipping it in the
fumes of damnation, lifting it thence to the joys of heaven. Terrible, electrical preaching!
It was the product of uncultured genius and human disappointment. Marion sat in awe, hardly
knowing whether it was impious or angelic. In a blind exordium the old zealot commanded those
who would save their souls to walk forward and kneel publicly at the altar, and make their
struggle there for salvation.

The first whom Marion saw to walk up the dimly lighted aisle and kneel was Perry Whaley. All
in the church saw and knew him, and a thunderous singing broke out, in which religious and
mere denominational zeal all threw their enthusiasm.

"Judge Whaley's son--Episcopalian--admitted to the bar to-day--wonderful!"

Marion heard these whispers on every hand; and as the singing ceased, and the congregation
knelt to pray, Marion's mother saw her turning very pale, and silently and unobserved led her
out of the meeting-house.

It was one o'clock in the morning when Judge Whaley heard Perry enter the door. He was preceded
by the beams of a lamp, as his step came almost trippingly up the stairs. The Judge looked
up and saw the face of his demon, streaked with recent tears and shaded with dishevelled hair,
but on it a look like eternal sunshine.

"Glory! glory! glory!" exclaimed the young man hoarsely. He rushed upon his aged friend, and
kissed him in an ecstacy almost violent.

"My boy! Perry! What is it? You are not out of your mind?"

"No! no! I have found my father, our father!"

"Who is it?" asked the Judge, with a rising superstition, as if this were not his orphan, but
its preternatural copy; "you have found your father? What father?"

"God!" exclaimed young Perry, his countenance like flame. "My father is God and He is love!"

The town of Chester and the whole country had now a serious of rapid sensations. Judge Whaley
and his son were turned lunatics, and behaved like a pair of boys. Marion Voss had broken her
engagement with Perry Whaley because he insisted that he was not the Judge's son. Young Perry
was exhorting in the Methodist church, and studying and starving himself to be a preacher.
The Methodists were wild with social and denominational triumph: the Episcopalians were outraged,
and meditated sending Perry to the lunatic asylum. Finally, to the great joy of nervous people,
the last sensation came--Perry Whaley had left Chester to be a preacher.

Judge Whaley now grew old rapidly, and meek and careless of his attire. In an old pair of slippers,
glove-less and abstracted, he crossed the court-house green, no longer the first gentleman
in the county in courteous accost and lofty tone. He read his Bible in the seclusion of his
own house, and fishermen on the river coming in after midnight saw the lamp-light stream through
the chinks of his shutters, and said: "He has never been the same since Perry went away." But
he read in the religious papers of the genius and power of the absent one, roving like a young
hermit loosened, and with a tongue of flame over the length and breadth of the country, producing
extraordinary excitement and adding thousands to his humble denomination.

On Christmas Day the Judge was sitting in his great room reading the same mystic book, and
listening, with a wistfulness that had never left him, to every infrequent footfall in the
street. There came a knock at the door. He opened it, and out of the darkness into which he
could not see came a voice altered in pitch, but with remembered accents in it, saying:

"Father, mother has come home!"

Stepping back before that extraordinary salutation, Judge Whaley saw a man come forward leading
a woman by the hand. The Judge receded until he could go no farther, and sank into his chair.
The woman knelt at his feet; older, and grown gray and in the robes of humility, yet in countenance
as she had been, only purified, as it seemed, by suffering and repentance, he saw his wife
of more than twenty years before.

Looking up into the face of the son he had watched so long for, the old man saw a still more
wonderful transformation. The elegant young gentleman of a few months before was a living spectre,
his bright eyes standing out large and consumptive upon a transparent skin, and glittering
with fanaticism or excitement.

"Perry Whaley," said the woman firmly, but with sweetness, "it is twenty-two years since I
left this house with hate of me in your heart and a degraded name; I was in thought and act
a pure woman, though the evidence against me was mountain-high. My sin was that of many women--flirtation.
Nothing more, before my God! I trifled with one of your students, a reckless and hot-blooded
man, and inspired him with a tyrannous passion. He swore if I would not fly with him to destroy
me. One day, the most dreadful of my life, he heard your foot upon the stairs ascending to
my chamber, and threw himself into it before you and avowed himself your injurer. Then rose
in confirmation of him every girlish folly; I saw myself in your mild eyes condemned, in this
community long suspected, and by my own family discarded for your sake. Where could I go but
to the author of my sorrows? He became my husband and I am a widow."

Judge Whaley stretched out his hand in the direction of his eyes, not upon the old wife at
his feet, but toward his son, who had settled into a chair and closed his eyes as if in tired
rapture.

"Hear me but a moment more," said the kneeling woman. "I was the slave of an ever-jealous maniac;
but my heart was still at this fireside with your bowed spirit, and this our son. My husband
told me that the way to recover the child was to claim it as his. His motive, I fear, was different--to
place me on record as confessedly false and prevent our reunion forever. But I was not wise
enough to see it. I only thought you would send my son to me. I waited in my lonely home in
Charleston years on years. He came at last, but not too late; my frivolous soul, grown selfish
with vanity and disappointment, bent itself before God through the prayers of our son. I am
forgiven, Perry Whaley. I have felt it!"

The old man did not answer, but strained his eyes upon his son. "See there!" he slowly spoke,
"Perry is dying. Famished all these years for human love, this excess of joy has snapped the
silver cord. Wife, Mary, we have martyred him."

It was the typhoid fever which had developed from Perry's wasting vitality. He sank into delirium
as they looked at him, and was carried tenderly to his bed. Marion Voss came to nurse him with
his mother. She, too, after Perry's departure, had grown serious and followed his example,
and was a Methodist. The young zealot sank lower and lower, despite science or prayers. Both
churches prayed for him. Negroes and whites united their hopes and kind offices. One morning
he was of dying pulse, and the bell in the Episcopal church began to toll. At the bedside all
the little family had instinctively knelt, and Perry's mother was praying with streaming eyes,
committing the worn-out nature to Heavenly Love, when suddenly Judge Whaley, who had kept his
hand on Perry's pulse, exclaimed:

"It beats! He lives again. The stimulant, Marion!"

Father and son had rescued each other's lives. One day as Perry had recovered strength, Judge
Whaley said:

"My son, are you a minister, qualified to perform marriages?"

"Yes."

"When you are ready and strong, will you marry your mother and me again?"

"Very soon," said Perry; "but not too soon. Here is Marion waiting for me, as she has waited,
like Rachel for Jacob, these many years. I shall preach no more, dear father, except as a layman.
I see by your eyes that the demon is no longer in our home, and the remainder of my life will
be spent in returning to you the joy my presence for years dispelled."

"O Perry, my patient son," exclaimed the father, "they who entertain angels unawares have nothing
to look to with regret--except unkindness."

A CONVENT LEGEND.

    The General Moreau, that pure republican,
      Who won at Hohenlinden so much glory,
    And by Bonaparte hated, crossed the sea to be free.
      And brought to the Delaware his story.
    World-renowned as he was, unto Washington he strayed.
      Where Pichegru, his friend, had contended,
    And to Georgetown he rode, in search of a church,
      To confess what of good he offended.

    The Jesuits' nest beckoned up to the height
      Where pious John Carroll had laid it,
    And the General knelt at the cell but to tell
      His offence; yet or ever he said it,
    A voice in the speech of his Bretagny home,
      From within, where the monk was to listen,
    Exclaimed like a soldier: "Ah me! mon ami,
      Take my place and a sinful one christen!

    "For mine was the band that brought exile to you;
      Cadoudal, the Chouan, my master,
    Broke my sword and my heart, and I lost when I crost,
      Both honor and love to be pastor.
    A knight of the king and my lady at court,
      At the call of Vendée the despised,
    Into Paris I stole with a few, one or two,
      As assassins, to murder disguised.

    "On the third of Nivose, in the narrowest street,
      And never a traitor one to breathe it,
    We prepared to blow up Bonaparte with a cart,
      And a barrel of powder beneath it.
    He came like a flash, dashing by, but behind,
      Poor folks and his escort in feather,
    And the child that we put, sans remorse, by the horse,
      Were torn all to pieces together."

    "To the guillotine both of my comrades were sent,
      But the Church, saving me for the tonsure,
    Hid me off in the wilds, and my dame, to her shame,
      To be Père sold me out from a Monsieur;
    And now she is clad in the silk of the court,
      And I in the wool of confessor,--
    Hate me not, ere hence you go, Jean Victor Moreau!
      And with France be my fame's intercessor!"

    "Limoelan! priest! is it you that I hear
      In this convent by Washington's river?
    Ah! France, how thy children are hurled round the world,
      Like the arrows from destiny's quiver!
    Take shrift for thy crime! Be thou pardoned with peace,
      Poor exile of Breton, my brother!"
    And the cannon of Dresden Moreau gave release,
      The bells of the convent the other.

CRUTCH, THE PAGE.

I.--CHIPS.

The Honorable Jeems Bee, of Texas, sitting in his committee-room half an hour before the convening
of Congress, waiting for his negro familiar to compound a julep, was suddenly confronted by
a small boy on crutches.

"A letter!" exclaimed Mr. Bee, "with the frank of Reybold on it--that Yankeest of Pennsylvania
Whigs! Yer's familiarity! Wants me to appoint one U--U--U, what?"

"Uriel Basil," said the small boy on crutches, with a clear, bold, but rather sensitive voice.

"Uriel Basil, a page in the House of Representatives, bein' an infirm, deservin' boy, willin'
to work to support his mother. Infirm boy wants to be a page, on the recommendation of a Whig,
to a Dimmycratic committee. I say, gen'lemen, what do you think of that, heigh?"

This last addressed to some other members of the committee, who had meantime entered.

"Infum boy will make a spry page," said the Hon. Box Izard, of Arkansaw.

"Harder to get infum page than the Speaker's eye," said the orator, Pontotoc Bibb, of Georgia.

"Harder to get both than a 'pintment in these crowded times on a opposition recommendation
when all ole Virginny is yaw to be tuk care of," said Hon. Fitzchew Smy, of the Old Dominion.

The small boy standing up on crutches, with large hazel eyes swimming and wistful, so far from
being cut down by these criticisms, stood straighter, and only his narrow little chest showed
feeling, as it breathed quickly under his brown jacket.

"I can run as fast as anybody," he said impetuously. "My sister says so. You try me!"

"Who's yo' sister, bub?"

"Joyce."

"Who's Joyce?"

"Joyce Basil--Miss Joyce Basil to you, gentlemen. My mother keeps boarders. Mr. Reybold boards
there. I think it's hard when a little boy from the South wants to work, that the only body
to help him find it is a Northern man. Don't you?"

"Good hit!" cried Jeroboam Coffee, Esq., of Alabama. "That boy would run, if he could!"

"Gentlemen," said another member of the committee, the youthful abstractionist from South Carolina,
who was reputed to be a great poet on the stump, the Hon. Lowndes Cleburn--"gentlemen, that
boy puts the thing on its igeel merits and brings it home to us. I'll ju my juty in this issue.
Abe, wha's my julep?"

"Gentlemen," said the Chairman of Committee, Jeems Bee, "it 'pears to me that there's a social
p'int right here. Reybold, bein' the only Whig on the Lake and Bayou Committee, ought to have
something if he sees fit to ask for it. That's courtesy! We, of all men, gentlemen, can't afford
to forget it."

"No, by durn!" cried Fitzchew Smy.

"You're right, Bee!" cried Box Izard. "You give it a constitutional set."

"Reybold," continued Jeems Bee, thus encouraged, "Reybold is (to speak out) no genius! He never
will rise to the summits of usefulness. He lacks the air, the swing, the pose, as the sculptors
say; he won't treat, but he'll lend a little money, provided he knows where you goin' with
it. If he ain't open-hearted, he ain't precisely mean!"

"You're right, Bee!" (General expression.)

"Further on, it may be said that the framers of the govment never intended all the patronage
to go to one side. Mr. Jeffson put that on the steelyard principle: the long beam here, the
big weight of being in the minority there. Mr. Jackson only threw it considabul more on one
side, but even he, gentlemen, didn't take the whole patronage from the Outs; he always left
'em enough to keep up the courtesy of the thing, and we can't go behind him. Not and be true
to our traditions. Do I put it right?"

"Bee," said the youthful Lowndes Cleburn, extending his hand, "you put it with the lucidity
and spirituality of Kulhoon himself!"

"Thanks, Cleburn," said Bee; "this is a compliment not likely to be forgotten, coming from
you. Then it is agreed, as the Chayman of yo' Committee, that I accede to the request of Mr.
Reybold, of Pennsylvania?"

"Aye!" from everybody.

"And now," said Mr. Bee, "as we wair all up late at the club last night, I propose we take
a second julep, and as Reybold is coming in he will jine us."

"I won't give you a farthing!" cried Reybold at the door, speaking to some one. "Chips, indeed!
What shall I give you money to gamble away for? A gambling beggar is worse than an impostor!
No, sir! Emphatically no!"

"A dollar for four chips for brave old Beau!" said the other voice. "I've struck 'em all but
you. By the State Arms! I've got rights in this distreek! Everybody pays toll to brave old
Beau! Come down!"

The Northern Congressman retreated before this pertinacious mendicant into his committee-room,
and his pesterer followed him closely, nothing abashed, even into the privileged cloisters
of the committee. The Southern members enjoyed the situation.

"Chips, Right Honorable! Chips for old Beau. Nobody this ten-year has run as long as you. I've
laid for you, and now I've fell on you. Judge Bee, the fust business befo' yo' committee this
mornin' is a assessment for old Beau, who's away down! Rheumatiz, bettin' on the black, failure
of remittances from Fauqueeah, and other casualties by wind an' flood, have put ole Beau away
down. He's a institution of his country and must be sustained!"

The laughter was general and cordial amongst the Southerners, while the intruder pressed hard
upon Mr. Reybold. He was a singular object; tall, grim, half-comical, with a leer of low familiarity
in his eves, but his waxed mustache of military proportions, his patch of goatee just above
the chin, his elaborately oiled hair and flaming necktie, set off his faded face with an odd
gear of finery and impressiveness. His skin was that of an old roué's, patched up and calked,
but the features were those of a once handsome man of style and carriage.

He wore what appeared to be a cast-off spring overcoat, out of season and color on this blustering
winter day, a rich buff waistcoat of an embossed pattern, such as few persons would care to
assume, save, perhaps, a gambler, negro buyer, or fine "buck" barber. The assumption of a large
and flashy pin stood in his frilled shirt-bosom. He wore watch-seals without the accompanying
watch, and his pantaloons, though faded and threadbare, were once of fine material and cut
in a style of extravagant elegance, and they covered his long, shrunken, but aristocratic limbs,
and were strapped beneath his boots to keep them shapely. The boots themselves had been once
of varnished kid or fine calf, but they were cracked and cut, partly by use, partly for comfort;
for it was plain that their wearer had the gout, by his aristocratic hobble upon a gold-mounted
cane, which was not the least inconsistent garniture of his mendicancy.

"Boys," said Fitzchew Smy, "I s'pose we better come down early. There's a shillin', Beau. If
I had one more sech constituent as you, I should resign or die premachorely!"

"There's a piece o' tobacker," said Jeems Bee languidly, "all I can afforde, Beau, this mornin'.
I went to a chicken-fight yesterday and lost all my change."

"Mine," said Box Izard, "is a regulation pen-knife, contributed by the United States, with
the regret, Beau, that I can't 'commodate you with a pine coffin for you to git into and git
away down lower than you ever been."

"Yaw's a dollar," said Pontotoc Bibb; "it'll do for me an' Lowndes Cleburn, who's a poet and
genius, and never has no money. This buys me off, Beau, for a month."

The gorgeous old mendicant took them all grimly and leering, and then pounced upon the Northern
man, assured by their twinkles and winks that the rest expected some sport.

"And now, Right Honorable from the banks of the Susquehanna, Colonel Reybold--you see, I got
your name; I ben a layin' for you!--come down handsome for the Uncle and ornament of his capital
and country. What's yore's?"

"Nothing," said Reybold in a quiet way. "I cannot give a man like you any thing, even to get
rid of him."

"You're mean," said the stylish beggar, winking to the rest. "You hate to put your hand down
in yer pocket, mightily. I'd rather be ole Beau, and live on suppers at the faro banks, than
love a dollar like you!"

"I'll make it a V for Beau," said Pontotoc Bibb, "if he gives him a rub on the raw like that
another lick. Durn a mean man, Cleburn!"

"Come down, Northerner," pressed the incorrigible loafer again; "it don't become a Right Honorable
to be so mean with old Beau."

The little boy on crutches, who had been looking at this scene in a state of suspense and interest
for some time, here cried hotly:

"If you say Mr. Reybold is a mean man, you tell a story, you nasty beggar! He often gives things
to me and Joyce, my sister. He's just got me work, which is the best thing to give; don't you
think so, gentlemen?"

"Work," said Lowndes Cleburn, "is the best thing to give away, and the most onhandy thing to
keep. I like play the best--Beau's kind o' play."

"Yes," said Jeroboam Coffee; "I think I prefer to make the chips fly out of a table more than
out of a log."

"I like to work!" cried the little boy, his hazel eyes shining, and his poor, narrow body beating
with unconscious fervor, half suspended on his crutches, as if he were of that good descent
and natural spirit which could assert itself without bashfulness in the presence of older people.
"I like to work for my mother. If I was strong, like other little boys, I would make money
for her, so that she shouldn't keep any boarders--except Mr. Reybold. Oh! she has to work a
lot; but she's proud and won't tell anybody. All the money I get I mean to give her; but I
wouldn't have it if I had to beg for it like that man!"

"O Beau," said Colonel Jeems Bee, "you've cotched it now! Reybold's even with you. Little Crutch
has cooked your goose! Crutch is right eloquent when his wind will permit."

The fine old loafer looked at the boy, whom he had not previously noticed, and it was observed
that the last shaft had hurt his pride. The boy returned his wounded look with a straight,
undaunted, spirited glance, out of a child's nature. Mr. Reybold was impressed with something
in the attitude of the two, which made him forget his own interest in the controversy.

Beau answered with a tone of nearly tender pacification:

"Now, my little man; come, don't be hard on the old veteran! He's down, old Beau is, sence
the time he owned his blooded pacer and dined with the Corps Diplomatique; Beau's down sence
then; but don't call the old feller hard names. We take it back, don't we?--we take them words
back?"

"There's a angel somewhere," said Lowndes Cleburn, "even in a Washington bummer, which responds
to a little chap on crutches with a clear voice. Whether the angel takes the side of the bummer
or the little chap, is a p'int out of our jurisdiction. Abe, give Beau a julep. He seems to
have been demoralized by little Crutch's last."

"Take them hard words back, Bub," whined the licensed mendicant, with either real or affected
pain; "it's a p'int of honor I'm a standin' on. Do, now, little Major!"

"I shan't!" cried the boy. "Go and work like me. You're big, and you called Mr. Reybold mean.
Haven't you got a wife or little girl, or nobody to work for? You ought to work for yourself,
anyhow. Oughtn't he, gentlemen?"

Reybold, who had slipped around by the little cripple and was holding him in a caressing way
from behind, looked over to Beau and was even more impressed with that generally undaunted
worthy's expression. It was that of acute and suffering sensibility, perhaps the effervescence
of some little remaining pride, or it might have been a twinge of the gout. Beau looked at
the little boy, suspended there with the weak back and the narrow chest, and that scintillant,
sincere spirit beaming out with courage born in the stock he belonged to. Admiration, conciliation,
and pain were in the ruined vagrant's eyes. Reybold felt a sense of pity. He put his hand in
his pocket and drew forth a dollar.

"Here, Beau," he said, "I'll make an exception. You seem to have some feeling. Don't mind the boy!"

In an instant the coin was flying from his hand through the air. The beggar, with a livid face
and clinched cane, confronted the Congressman like a maniac.

"You bilk!" he cried. "You supper customer! I'll brain you! I had rather parted with my shoes
at a dolly shop and gone gadding the hoof, without a doss to sleep on--a town pauper, done
on the vag--than to have made been scurvy in the sight of that child and deserve his words
of shame!"

He threw his head upon the table and burst into tears.

II.--HASH.

Mrs. Tryphonia Basil kept a boarding-house of the usual kind on Four-and-a-Half Street. Male
clerks--there were no female clerks in the Government in 1854--to the number of half a dozen,
two old bureau officers, an architect's assistant, Reybold, and certain temporary visitors
made up the table. The landlady was the mistress; the slave was Joyce.

Joyce Basil was a fine-looking girl, who did not know it--a fact so astounding as to be fitly
related only in fiction. She did not know it, because she had to work so hard for the boarders
and her mother. Loving her mother with the whole of her affection, she had suffered all the
pains and penalties of love from that repository. She was to-day upbraided for her want of
coquetry and neatness; to-morrow, for proposing to desert her mother and elope with a person
she had never thought of. The mainstay of the establishment, she was not aware of her usefulness.
Accepting every complaint and outbreak as if she deserved it, the poor girl lived at the capital
a beautiful scullion, an unsalaried domestic, and daily forwarded the food to the table, led
in the chamberwork, rose from bed unrested and retired with all her bones aching. But she was
of a natural grace that hard work could not make awkward; work only gave her bodily power,
brawn, and form. Though no more than seventeen years of age, she was a superb woman, her chest
thrown forward, her back like the torso of a Venus de Milo, her head placed on the throat of
a Minerva, and the nature of a child moulded in the form of a matron. Joyce Basil had black
hair and eyes--very long, excessive hair, that in the mornings she tied up with haste so imperfectly,
that once Reybold had seen it drop like a cloud around her and nearly touch her feet. At that
moment, seeing him, she blushed. He plead, for once, a Congressman's impudence, and without
her objection, wound that great crown of woman's glory around her head, and, as he did so,
the perfection of her form and skin, and the overrunning health and height of the Virginia
girl, struck him so thoroughly that he said:

"Miss Joyce, I don't wonder that Virginia is the mother of Presidents."

Between Reybold and Joyce there were already the delicate relations of a girl who did not know
that she was a woman, and a man who knew she was beautiful and worthy. He was a man vigilant
over himself, and the poverty and menial estate of Joyce Basil were already insuperable obstacles
to marrying her, but still he was attracted by her insensibility that he could ever have regarded
her in that light of marriage. "Who was her father, the Judge?" he used to reflect. The Judge
was a favorite topic with Mrs. Basil at the table.

"Mr. Reybold," she would say, "you commercial people of the Nawth can't hunt, I believe. Jedge
Basil is now on the mountains of Fawquear hunting the plova. His grandfather's estate is full
of plova."

If, by chance, Reybold saw a look of care on Mrs. Basil's face, he inquired for the Judge,
her husband, and found he was still shooting on the Occequan.

"Does he never come to Washington, Mrs. Basil?" asked Reybold one day, when his mind was very
full of Joyce, the daughter.

"Not while Congress is in session," said Mrs. Basil. "It's a little too much of the oi polloi
for the Judge. His family, you may not know, Mr. Reybold, air of the Basils of King George.
They married into the Tayloze of Mount Snaffle. The Tayloze of Mount Snaffle have Ingin blood
in their veins--the blood of Poky-huntus. They dropped the name of Taylor, which had got to
be common through a want of Ingin blood, and spelled it with a E. It used to be Taylor, but
now it's Tayloze."

On another occasion, at sight of Joyce Basil cooking over the fire, against whose flame her
moulded arms took momentary roses upon their ivory, Reybold said to himself: "Surely there
is something above the common in the race of this girl." And he asked the question of Mrs. Basil:

"Madame, how was the Judge, your husband, at the last advices?"

"Hunting the snipe, Mr. Reybold. I suppose you do not have the snipe in the North. It is the
aristocratic fowl of the Old Dominion. Its bill is only shorter than its legs, and it will
not brown at the fire, to perfection, unless upon a silver spit. Ah! when the Jedge and myself
were young, before his land troubles overtook us, we went to the springs with our own silver
and carriages, Mr. Reybold."

Looking up at Mrs. Basil, Reybold noticed a pallor and flush alternately, and she evaded his eye.

Once Mrs. Basil borrowed a hundred dollars from Reybold in advance of board, and the table
suffered in consequence.

"The Judge," she had explained, "is short of taxes on his Fawquear lands. It's a desperate
moment with him." Yet in two days the Judge was shooting blue-winged teal at the mouth of the
Accotink, and his entire indifference to his family set Reybold to thinking whether the Virginia
husband and father was any thing more than a forgetful savage. The boarders, however, made
very merry over the absent unknown. If the beefsteak was tough, threats were made to send for
"the Judge," and let him try a tooth on it; if scant, it was suggested that the Judge might
have paid a gunning visit to the premises and inspected the larder. The daughter of the house
kept such an even temper, and was so obliging within the limitations of the establishment,
that many a boarder went to his department without complaint, though with an appetite only
partly satisfied. The boy, Uriel, also was the guardsman of the household, old-faced as if
with the responsibility of taking care of two women. Indeed, the children of the landlady were
so well behaved and prepossessing that, compared with Mrs. Basil's shabby hauteur and garrulity,
the legend of the Judge seemed to require no other foundation than offspring of such good spirit
and intonation.

Mrs. Tryphonia Basil was no respecter of persons. She kept boarders, she said, as a matter
of society, and to lighten the load of the Judge. He had very little idea that she was making
a mercantile matter of hospitality, but, as she feelingly remarked, "the old families are misplaced
in such times as these yer, when the departments are filled with Dutch, Yankees, Crackers,
Pore Whites, and other foreigners." Her manner was, at periods, insolent to Mr. Reybold, who
seldom protested, out of regard to the daughter and the little Page; he was a man of quite
ordinary appearance, saying little, never making speeches or soliciting notice, and he accepted
his fare and quarters with little or no complaint.

"Crutch," he said one day to the little boy, "did you ever see your father?"

"No, I never saw him, Mr. Reybold, but I've had letters from him."

"Don't he ever come to see you when you are sick?"

"No. He wanted to come once when my back was very sick, and I laid in bed weeks and weeks,
sir, dreaming, oh! such beautiful things. I thought mamma and sister and I were all with papa
in that old home we are going to some day. He carried me up and down in his arms, and I felt
such rest that I never knew any thing like it, when I woke up, and my back began to ache again.
I wouldn't let mamma send for him, though, because she said he was working for us all to make
our fortunes, and get doctors for me, and clothes and school for dear Joyce. So I sent him
my love, and told papa to work, and he and I would bring the family out all right."

"What did your papa seem like in that dream, my little boy?

"Oh! sir, his forehead was bright as the sun. Sometimes I see him now when I am tired at night
after running all day through Congress."

Reybold's eyes were full of tears as he listened to the boy, and, turning aside, he saw Joyce
Basil weeping also.

"My dear girl," he said to her, looking up significantly, "I fear he will see his great Father
very soon."

Reybold had few acquaintances, and he encouraged the landlady's daughter to go about with him
when she could get a leisure hour or evening. Sometimes they took a seat at the theatre, more
often at the old Ascension Church, and once they attended a President's reception. Joyce had
the bearing of a well-bred lady, and the purity of thought of a child. She was noticed as if
she had been a new and distinguished arrival in Washington.

"Ah! Reybold," said Pontotoc Bibb, "I understand, ole feller, what keeps you so quiet now.
You've got a wife onbeknown to the Kemittee! and a happy man I know you air."

It pleased Reybold to hear this, and deepened his interest in the landlady's family. His attention
to her daughter stirred Mrs. Basil's pride and revolt together.

"My daughter, Colonel Reybold," she said, "is designed for the army. The Judge never writes
to me but he says: 'Tryphonee, be careful that you impress upon my daughter the importance
of the military profession. My mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother married into the
army, and no girl of the Basil stock shall descend to civil life while I can keep the Fawquear
estates.'"

"Madame," said the Congressman, "will you permit me to make the suggestion that your daughter
is already a woman and needs a father's care, if she is ever to receive it. I beseech you to
impress this subject upon the Judge. His estates cannot be more precious to his heart, if he
is a man of honor; nay, what is better than honor, his duty requires him to come to the side
of these children, though he be ever so constrained by business or pleasure to attend to more
worldly concerns."

"The Judge," exclaimed Mrs. Basil, much miffed, "is a man of hereditary ijees, Colonel Reybold.
He is now in pursuit of the--ahem!--the Kinvas-back on his ancestral waters. If he should hear
that you suggested a pacific life and the grovelling associations of the capital for him, he
might call you out, sir!"

Reybold said no more; but one evening when Mrs. Basil was absent, called across the Potomac,
as happened frequently, at the summons of the Judge--and on such occasions she generally requested
a temporary loan or a slight advance of board--Reybold found Joyce Basil in the little parlor
of the dwelling. She was alone and in tears, but the little boy Uriel slept before the chimney-fire
on a rug, and his pale, thin face, catching the glow of the burning wood, looked beautified
as Reybold addressed the young woman.

"Miss Joyce," he said, "our little brother works too hard. Is there never to be relief for
him? His poor, withered body, slung on those crutches for hours and hours, racing up the aisles
of the House with stronger pages, is wearing him out. His ambition is very interesting to see,
but his breath is growing shorter and his strength is frailer every week. Do you know what
it will lead to?"

"O my Lord!" she said, in the negrofied phrase natural to her latitude, "I wish it was no sin
to wish him dead."

"Tell me, my friend," said Reybold, "can I do nothing to assist you both? Let me understand
you. Accept my sympathy and confidence. Where is Uriel's father? What is this mystery?"

She did not answer.

"It is for no idle curiosity that I ask," he continued. "I will appeal to him for his family,
even at the risk of his resentment. Where is he?"

"Oh, do not ask!" she exclaimed. "You want me to tell you only the truth. He is there!"

She pointed to one of the old portraits in the room--a picture fairly painted by some provincial
artist--and it revealed a handsome face, a little voluptuous but aristocratic, the shoulders
clad in a martial cloak, the neck in ruffles and ruffles, also and a diamond in the shirt bosom.
Reybold studied it with all his mind.

"Then it is no fiction," he said, "that you have a living father, one answering to your mother's
description. Where have I seen that face? Has some irreparable mistake, some miserable controversy,
alienated him from his wife? Has he another family?"

She answered with spirit:

"No, sir. He is my father and my brother's only. But I can tell you no more."

"Joyce," he said, taking her hand, "this is not enough. I will not press you to betray any
secret you may possess. Keep it. But of yourself I must know something more. You are almost
a woman. You are beautiful."

At this he tightened his grasp, and it brought him closer to her side. She made a little struggle
to draw away, but it pleased him to see that when the first modest opposition had been tried
she sat quite happily, though trembling, with his arm around her.

"Joyce," he continued, "you have a double duty: one to your mother and this poor invalid, whose
journey toward that Father's house not made with hands is swiftly hastening; another duty toward
your nobler self--the future that is in you and your woman's heart. I tell you again that you
are beautiful, and the slavery to which you are condemning yourself forever is an offence against
the creator of such perfection. Do you know what it is to love?"

"I know what it is to feel kindness," she answered after a time of silence. "I ought to know
no more. You goodness is very dear to me. We never sleep, brother and I, but we say your name
together, and ask God to bless you."

Reybold sought in vain to suppress a confession he had resisted. The contact of her form, her
large dark eyes now fixed upon him in emotion, the birth of the conscious woman in the virgin
and her affection still in the leashes of a slavish sacrifice, tempted him onward to the conquest.

"I am about to retire from Congress," he said. "It is no place for me in times so insubstantial.
There is darkness and beggary ahead for all your Southern race. There is a crisis coming which
will be followed by desolation. The generation to which your parents belong is doomed! I open
my arms to you, dear girl, and offer you a home never yet gladdened by a wife. Accept it, and
leave Washington with me and with your brother. I love you wholly."

A happy light shone in her face a moment. She was weary to the bone with the day's work, and
had not the strength, if she had the will, to prevent the Congressman drawing her to his heart.
Sobbing there, she spoke with bitter agony:

"Heaven bless you, dear Mr. Reybold, with a wife good enough to deserve you! Blessings on your
generous heart. But I cannot leave Washington. I love another here!"

III.--DUST.

The Lake and Bayou Committee reaped the reward of a good action. Crutch, the page, as they
all called Uriel Basil, affected the sensibility of the whole committee to the extent that
profanity almost ceased there, and vulgarity became a crime in the presence of a child. Gentle
words and wishes became the rule; a glimmer of reverence and a thought of piety were not unknown
in that little chamber.

"Dog my skin!" said Jeems Bee, "if I ever made a 'pintment that give me sech satisfaction!
I feel as if I had sot a nigger free!"

The youthful abstractionist, Lowndes Cleburn, expressed it even better. "Crutch," he said,
"is like a angel reduced to his bones. Them air wings or pinions, that he might have flew off
with, being a pair of crutches, keeps him here to tarry awhile in our service. But, gentlemen,
he's not got long to stay. His crutches is growing too heavy for that expandin' sperit. Some
day we'll look up and miss him through our tears."

They gave him many a present; they put a silver watch in his pocket, and dressed him in a jacket
with gilt buttons. He had a bouquet of flowers to take home every day to that marvellous sister
of whom he spoke so often; and there were times when the whole committee, seeing him drop off
to sleep as he often did through frail and weary nature, sat silently watching lest he might
be wakened before his rest was over. But no persuasion could take him off the floor of Congress.
In that solemn old Hall of Representatives, under the semicircle of gray columns, he darted
with agility from noon to dusk, keeping speed upon his crutches with the healthiest of the
pages, and racing into the document-room; and through the dark and narrow corridors of the
old Capitol loft, where the House library was lost in twilight. Visitors looked with interest
and sympathy at the narrow back and body of this invalid child, whose eyes were full of bright,
beaming spirit. He sometimes nodded on the steps by the Speaker's chair; and these spells of
dreaminess and fatigue increased as his disease advanced upon his wasting system. Once he did
not awaken at all until adjournment. The great Congress and audience passed out, and the little
fellow still slept, with his head against the Clerk's desk, while all the other pages were
grouped around him, and they finally bore him off to the committee-room in their arms, where,
amongst the sympathetic watchers, was old Beau. When Uriel opened his eyes the old mendicant
was looking into them.

"Ah! little Major," he said, "poor Beau has been waiting for you to take those bad words back.
Old Beau thought it was all bob with his little cove."

"Beau," said the boy, "I've had such a dream! I thought my dear father, who is working so hard
to bring me home to him, had carried me out on the river in a boat. We sailed through the greenest
marshes, among white lilies, where the wild ducks were tame as they can be. All the ducks were
diving and diving, and they brought up long stalks of celery from the water and gave them to
us. Father ate all his. But mine turned into lilies and grew up so high that I felt myself
going with them, and the higher I went the more beautiful grew the birds. Oh! let me sleep
and see if it will be so again."

The outcast raised his gold-headed cane and hobbled up and down the room with a laced handkerchief
at his eyes.

"Great God!" he exclaimed, "another generation is going out, and here I stay without a stake,
playing a lone hand forever and forever."

"Beau," said Reybold, "there's hope while one can feel. Don't go away until you have a good
word from our little passenger."

The outstretched hand of the Northern Congressman was not refused by the vagrant, whose eccentric
sorrow yet amused the Southern Committeemen.

"Ole Beau's jib-boom of a mustache 'll put his eye out," said Pontotoc Bibb, "ef he fetches
another groan like that."

"Beau's very shaky around the hams an' knees," said Box Izard; "he's been a good figger, but
even figgers can lie ef they stand up too long."

The little boy unclosed his eyes and looked around on all those kindly, watching faces.

"Did anybody fire a gun?" he said. "Oh! no. I was only dreaming that I was hunting with father,
and he shot at the beautiful pheasants that were making such a whirring of wings for me. It
was music. When can I hunt with father, dear gentlemen?"

They all felt the tread of the mighty hunter before the Lord very near at hand; the hunter
whose name is Death.

"There are little tiny birds along the beach," muttered the boy. "They twitter and run into
the surf and back again, and am I one of them? I must be; for I feel the water cold, and yet
I see you all, so kind to me! Don't whistle for me now; for I don't get much play, gentlemen!
Will the Speaker turn me out if I play with the beach birds just once? I'm only a little boy
working for my mother."

"Dear Uriel," whispered Reybold, "here's Old Beau, to whom you once spoke angrily. Don't you
see him?"

The little boy's eyes came back from far-land somewhere, and he saw the ruined gamester at
his feet.

"Dear Beau," he said, "I can't get off to go home with you. They won't excuse me, and I give
all my money to mother. But you go to the back gate. Ask for Joyce. She'll give you a nice
warm meal every day. Go with him, Mr. Reybold! If you ask for him it will be all right; for
Joyce--dear Joyce!--she loves you."

The beach birds played again along the strand; the boy ran into the foam with his companions
and felt the spray once more. The Mighty Hunter shot his bird--a little cripple that twittered
the sweetest of them all. Nothing moved in the solemn chamber of the committee but the voice
of an old forsaken man, sobbing bitterly.

IV.--CAKE.

The funeral was over, and Mr. Reybold marvelled much that the Judge had not put in an appearance.
The whole committee had attended the obsequies of Crutch and acted as pall-bearers. Reybold
had escorted the page's sister to the Congressional cemetery, and had observed even Old Beau
to come with a wreath of flowers and hobble to the grave and deposit them there. But the Judge,
remorseless in death as frivolous in life, never came near his mourning wife and daughter in
their severest sorrow. Mrs. Tryphonia Basil, seeing that this singular want of behavior on
the Judge's part was making some ado, raised her voice above the general din of meals.

"Jedge Basil," she exclaimed, "has been on his Tennessee purchase. These Christmas times there's
no getting through the snow in the Cumberland Gap. He's stopped off thaw to shoot the--ahem!--the
wild torkey--a great passion with the Jedge. His half-uncle, Gineral Johnson, of Awkinso, was
a torkey-killer of high celebrity. He was a Deshay on his Maw's side. I s'pose you haven't
the torkey in the Dutch country, Mr. Reybold?"

"Madame," said Reybold, in a quieter moment, "have you written to the Judge the fact of his
son's death?"

"Oh yes--to Fawquear."

"Mrs. Basil," continued the Congressman, "I want you to be explicit with me. Where is the Judge,
your husband, at this moment?"

"Excuse me, Colonel Reybold, this is a little of a assumption, sir. The Jedge might call you
out, sir, for intruding upon his incog. He's very fine on his incog., you air awair."

"Madame," exclaimed Reybold straightforwardly, "there are reasons why I should communicate
with your husband. My term in Congress is nearly expired. I might arouse your interest, if
I chose, by recalling to your mind the memorandum of about seven hundred dollars in which you
are my debtor. That would be a reason for seeing your husband anywhere north of the Potomac,
but I do not intend to mention it. Is he aware--are you?--that Joyce Basil is in love with
some one in this city?"

Mrs. Basil drew a long breath, raised both hands, and ejaculated: "Well, I declaw!"

"I have it from her own lips," continued Reybold. "She told me as a secret, but all my suspicions
are awakened. If I can prevent it, madame, that girl shall not follow the example of hundreds
of her class in Washington, and descend, through the boarding-house or the lodging quarter,
to be the wife of some common and unambitious clerk, whose penury she must some day sustain
by her labor. I love her myself, but I will never take her until I know her heart to be free.
Who is this lover of your daughter?"

An expression of agitation and cunning passed over Mrs. Basil's face.

"Colonel Reybold," she whined, "I pity your blasted hopes. If I was a widow, they should be
comfoted. Alas! my daughter is in love with one of the Fitzchews of Fawqueeah. His parents
is cousins of the Jedge, and attached to the military."

The Congressman looked disappointed, but not yet satisfied.

"Give me at once the address of your husband," he spoke. "If you do not, I shall ask your daughter
for it, and she cannot refuse me."

The mistress of the boarding-house was not without alarm, but she dispelled it with an outbreak
of anger.

"If my daughter disobeys her mother," she cried, "and betrays the Jedge's incog., she is no
Basil, Colonel Reybold. The Basils repudiate her, and she may jine the Dutch and other foreigners
at her pleasure."

"That is her only safety," exclaimed Reybold. "I hope to break every string that holds her
to yonder barren honor and exhausted soil."

He pointed toward Virginia, and hastened away to the Capitol. All the way up the squalid and
muddy avenue of that day he mused and wondered: "Who is Fitzhugh? Is there such a person any
more than a Judge Basil? And yet there is a Judge, for Joyce has told me so. She, at least,
cannot lie to me. At last," he thought, "the dream of my happiness is over. Invincible in her
prejudice as all these Virginians, Joyce Basil has made her bed amongst the starveling First
Families, and there she means to live and die. Five years hence she will have her brood around
her. In ten years she will keep a boarding-house and borrow money. As her daughters grow up
to the stature and grace of their mother, they will be proud and poor again and breed in and
out, until the race will perish from the earth."

Slow to love, deeply interested, baffled but unsatisfied, Reybold made up his mind to cut his
perplexity short by leaving the city for the county of Fauquier. As he passed down the avenue
late that afternoon, he turned into E Street, near the theatre, to engage a carriage for his
expedition. It was a street of livery-stables, gambling dens, drinking houses, and worse; murders
had been committed along its sidewalks. The more pretentious canaille of the city harbored
there to prey on the hotels close at hand and aspire to the chance acquaintance of gentlemen.
As Reybold stood in an archway of this street, just as the evening shadows deepened above the
line of sunset, he saw something pass which made his heart start to his throat and fastened
him to the spot. Veiled and walking fast, as if escaping detection or pursuit, the figure of
Joyce Basil flitted over the pavement and disappeared in a door about at the middle of this
Alsatian quarter of the capital.

"What house is that?" he asked of a constable passing by, pointing to the door she entered.

"Gambling den," answered the officer. "It used to be old Phil Pendleton's."

Reybold knew the reputation of the house: a resort for the scions of the old tide-water families,
where hospitality thinly veiled the paramount design of plunder. The connection established
the truth of Mrs. Basil's statement. Here, perhaps, already married to the dissipated heir
of some unproductive estate, Joyce Basil's lot was cast forever. It might even be that she
had been tempted here by some wretch whose villainy she knew not of. Reybold's brain took fire
at the thought, and he pursued the fugitive into the doorway. A negro steward unfastened a
slide and peeped at Reybold knocking in the hall; and, seeing him of respectable appearance,
bowed ceremoniously as he let down a chain and opened the door.

"Short cards in the front saloon," he said; "supper and faro back. Chambers on the third floor.
Walk up."

Reybold only tarried a moment at the gaming tables, where the silent, monotonous deal from
the tin box, the lazy stroke of the markers, and the transfer of ivory "chips" from card to
card of the sweat-cloth, impressed him as the dullest form of vice he had ever found. Treading
softly up the stairs, he was attracted by the light of a door partly ajar, and a deep groan,
as of a dying person. He peeped through the crack of the door, and beheld Joyce Basil leaning
over an old man, whose brow she moistened with her handkerchief. "Dear father," he heard her
say, and it brought consolation to more than the sick man. Reybold threw open the door and
entered into the presence of Mrs. Basil and her daughter. The former arose with surprise and
shame, and cried:

"Jedge Basil, the Dutch have hunted you down. He's here--the Yankee creditor."

Joyce Basil held up her hand in imploration, but Reybold did not heed the woman's remark. He
felt a weight rising from his heart, and the blindness of many months lifted from his eyes.
The dying mortal upon the bed, over whose face the blue billow of death was rolling rapidly,
and whose eyes sought in his daughter's the promise of mercy from on high, was the mysterious
parent who had never arrived--the Judge from Fauquier. In that old man's long waxed mustache,
crimped hair, and threadbare finery the Congressman recognized Old Beau, the outcast gamester
and mendicant, and the father of Joyce and Uriel Basil.

"Colonel Reybold," faltered that old wreck of manly beauty and of promise long departed, "Old
Beau's passing in his checks. The chant coves will be telling to-morrow what they know of his
life in the papers, but I've dropped a cold deck on 'em these twenty years. Not one knows Old
Beau, the Bloke, to be Tom Basil, cadet at West Point in the last generation. I've kept nothing
of my own but my children's good name. My little boy never knew me to be his father. I tried
to keep the secret from my daughter, but her affection broke down my disguises. Thank God!
the old rounder's deal has run out at last. For his wife he'll flash her diles no more, nor
be taken on the vag."

"Basil," said Reybold, "what trust do you leave to me in your family?"

Mrs. Basil strove to interpose, but the dying man raised his voice:

"Tryphonee can go home to Fauquier. She was always welcome there--without me. I was disinherited.
But here, Colonel! My last drop of blood is in the girl. She loves you."

A rattle arose in the sinner's throat. He made an effort, and transferred his daughter's hand
to the Congressman's. Not taking it away, she knelt with her future husband at the bedside
and raised her voice:

"Lord, when Thou comest into Thy kingdom, remember him!"

HERMAN OF BOHEMIA MANOR.

(See note at end of poem.)

I.--THE MANOR.

    "My corn is gathered in the bins,"
      The Lord Augustin Herman said;
    "My wild swine romp in chincapins;
    Dried are the deer and beaver skins;
      And on Elk Mountain's languid head
      The autumn woods are red.

    "So in my heart an autumn falls;
      I stand a lonely tree unleaved;
    And to my hermit manor walls
    The wild-goose from the water calls,
      As if to mock a man bereaved:
      My years are nearly sheaved.

    "Go saddle me the Flemish steed
      My brother Verlett gave to me,
    What time his sister did concede
    Her dainty hand to hear me plead!
      Poor soul! she's mouldering by the sea
      And I with misery."

    The slave man brought the wild-maned horse
      All wilder that with stags he grazed--
    Bred from the seed the knightly Norse
    Rode from Araby. Like remorse
      The eyes in his gray forehead blazed,
      As on his lord he gazed.

    "Now guard ye well my lands and stock;
      Slack not the seine, ply well the axe;
    The eagle circles o'er the flock;
    The Indian at my gates may knock:
      The firelock prime for his attacks;
      I ride the sunrise tracks."

    Swift as a wizard on a broom,
      The strong gray horse and rider ran,
    Adown the forest stripped of bloom.
    By stump and bough that scarce gave room
      To pass the woodman's caravan,
      Rode the Bohemian.

    "Lord Herman, stay," the brewer cried,
      "And Huddy's friendly flagon clink!"
    And martial Hinoyossa spied
    The horseman, moving with the tide
      That ebbed from Appoquinimink,
      Nor stopped to rest or drink.

    "Where rides old Herman?" Beekman mused;
      "That railing wife has turned his head."
    "He keeps the saddle as he used,
    In younger days, when he enthused
      Three provinces," Pierre Alricks said,
      "And mapped their landscapes spread."

    Broad rose Zuydt River as the sail
      Above his periauger flew;
    Loud neighed the steed to snuff the gale;
    But Herman saw not, swift and pale,
      Two carrier pigeons, winging true
      North-east, across the blue.

    They quit the cage of Stuyvesant's spy,
      And lurking Willems' message bore:
    ("This morn rode Herman rapid by,
    Tow'rd Amsterdam, to satisfy
      Yet wider titles than he tore
      From shallow Baltimore!")

II.--REPLEVIN.

    The second sunset at his back
      From Navesink Highlands threw the shade
    Of horse and Herman, long and black,
    Across the golden ripples' track,
      Where with the Kills the ocean played
      A measured serenade;

    There where to sea a river ran,
      Between tall hills of brown and sand,
    A mountain island rose to span
    The outlet of the Raritan,
      And made a world on either hand,
      Soft as a poet planned:

    Fair marshes pierced with brimming creeks,
      Where wild-fowl dived to oyster caves;
    And shores that swung to wooded peaks,
    Where many a falling water seeks
      The cascade's plunge to reach the waves,
      And greenest farmland laves:

    Deep tide to every roadstead slips,
      And many capes confuse the shore,
    Yet none do with their forms eclipse
    Yon ocean, made for royal ships,
      Whose swells on silver beaches roar
      And rock forevermore.

    Old Herman gazed through lengthening shades
      Far up the inland, where the spires,
    Defined on rocky palisades,
    Flung sunset from their burnished blades,
      And with their bells in evening choirs
      Breathed homesick men's desires:

    "New Amsterdam! 'tis thine or mine--
      The foreground of this stately plan!
    To me the Indian did assign
    Totem on totem, line on line--
      Both Staten and the groves that ran
      Far up the Raritan.

    "By spiteful Stuyvesant long restrained,
      Now, while the English break his power,
    Be Achter Kill again regained
    And Herman's title entertained,
      Here float my banner from my tower,
      Here is my right, my hour!"

III.--THE SQUATTERS.

    He scarce had finished, when a rush,
      Like partridge through the stubble, broke,
    And armed men trod down the brush;
    A harsh voice, trembling in the hush,
      As it must either stab or choke,
      Imperiously spoke:

    "Ye conquered men of Achter Kill,
      Whose farms by loyal toil ye got,
    True Dutchmen! give this traitor will--
    And he is yours to loose or kill--
      All that ye have he will allot
      Anew--field, cradle, cot.

    "Years past, beyond our Southern bounds,
      On States' commission sent by me,
    He mapped the English papists' grounds,
    And like a Judas, o'er our wounds,
      Our raiment parted openly:
      This is the man ye see!

    "Yet followed by my sleepless age,
      Fast as he rode my pigeons sped--
    Straight as the ravens from their cage,
    Straight as the arrows of my rage,
      Straight as the meteor overhead
      That strikes a traitor dead."

    They bound Lord Herman fast as hate,
      And bore him o'er to Staten Isle;
    Behind him closed the postern gate,
    And round him pitiless as fate,
      Closed moat and palisade and pile:
      "Thou diest at morn," they smile.

IV.--STUYVESANT.

    Morn broke on lofty Staten's height,
      O'er low Amboy and Arthur Kill;
    And ocean dallying with the light,
    Between the beaches leprous white,
      And silent hook and headland hill,
      And Stuyvesant had his will;

    One-legged he stood, his sharp mustache
      Stiff as the sword he slashed in ire;
    His bald crown, like a calabash,
    Fringed round with ringlets white as ash,
      And features scorched with inner fire;
      Age wore him like a briar.

    "Bring the Bohemian forth!" he cried;
      "Old man, thy moments are but few."
    "So much the better, Dutchman! bide
    Thy little time of aged pride,
      Thy poor revenges to pursue--
      Thy date is hastening, too.

    "No crime is mine, save that I sought
      A refuge past thy jealous ken,
    And peaceful arts to strangers taught,
    And mine own title hither brought,
      Before the laws of Englishmen,
      A banished denizen.

    "Yet that thy churlish soul may plead
      A favor to a dying foe,
    I'll ask thee, Stuyvesant, ere I bleed,
    Let me once more on my gray steed
      Thrice round the timbered enceinte go:
      Fire, when I tell thee so!"

    "What freak is this?" quoth Stuyvesant grim.
      Quoth Herman, "'Twas a charger brave--
    Like my first bride in eye and limb--
    A wedding-gift; indulge the whim!
      And from his back to plunge, I crave,
      A bridegroom, in her grave."

    Then muttered the uneasy guard:
      "We rob an old man of his lands,
    And slay him. Sure his fate is hard,
    His dying plea to disregard!"
      "Ride then to death!" Stuyvesant commands;
      "Unbind his horse, his hands!"

V.--THE LEAP.

    The old steed darted in the fort,
      And neighed and shook his long gray mane;
    Then, seeing soldiery, his port
    Grew savage. With a charger's snort,
      Upright he reared, as young again
      And scenting a campaign.

    Hard on his nostrils Herman laid
      An iron hand and drew him down,
    Then, mounting in the esplanade,
    The rude Dutch rustics stared afraid:
      "By Santa Claus! he needs no crown,
      To look more proud renown!"

    Lame Stuyvesant, also, envious saw
      How straight he sat in courteous power,
    Like boldness sanctified by law,
    And age gave magisterial awe;
      Though in his last and bitter hour,
      Of knightliness the flower.

    His gray hairs o'er his cassock blew,
      And in his peak'd hat waved a plume;
    A horn swung loose and shining through
    High boots of buckskin, as he drew
      The rein, a jewel burst to bloom:
      The signet ring of doom.

    'Thrice round the fort! Then as I raise
      This hand, aim all and murder well!'
    His head bends low; the steed's eyes blaze,
    But not less bright do Herman's gaze,
      As circling round the citadel,
      He peers for hope in hell.

    Fast were the gates; no crevice showed.
      The ramparts, spiked with palisades,
    Grew higher as once round he rode;
    The arquebusiers prime the load,
      And drop to aim from ambuscades;
      No latch, no loophole aids.

    But one small hut its chimney thrust
      Between the timbers, close as they;
    Twice round and with a desperate trust
    Lord Herman muttered: "die I must:
      There, CHARGE!" and spurred through beam and clay--
      "By heaven! he is away!"

VI.--THE KILLS.

    In clouds of dust the muskets fire,
      And volleying oaths old Stuyvesant from:
    "Turn out! In yonder Kills he'll mire,
    Or drown, unless the fiends conspire.
      Mount! Follow! Still he must succumb--
      That tide was never swum."

    Through hut and chimney, down the ditch
      And up the bank, plunge horse and man;
    And down the Kills of bramble pitch,
    Oft-stumbling, those old gray knees which,
      Hunting the raccoon, led the van;
      Now, limp yet game he ran.

    But cool and supple, Herman sat,
      His mind at work, his frame the horse's,
    And knew with each pulsation, that
    Past foe and fen, past crag, and flat,
      And marsh, the steed he nearer forces
      To the broad sea's recourses.

    "Old friend," he thought, "thou art too weak
      To try the Kills and drown, or falter,
    The while from shore their marksmen seek
    My heart. (Once o'er the Chesapeake
      I paddled oarless.) Lest the halter
      Be mine, I must not palter--

    "Thou diest, though my marriage-gift:
      I still can swim. Poor Joost, adieu!"
    Ere ceased the heartfelt sigh he lift,
    The prospect widened: all adrift,
      The salty sluice burst into view,
      Where grappling tides fought through,

    And sucked to doom the venturous bear,
      And from his ferry swept the rower--
    How wide, how terrible, how fair!
    Yet how inspiriting the air--
      How tempts the long salt grass the mower!
      How treacherous the shore!

    Far up the right spread Newark Bay,
      To lone Secaucus wooded rock;
    Nor could the Kill von Kull convey
    Passaic's mountain flood away:
      In Arthur Kill the surges choke,
      The wild tides interlock.

    O'er Arthur Kill the Holland farms
      Their gambril roofs, red painted, show;
    Beyond the newer Yankee swarms--
    His cider-presses spread their arms.
      Before, the squatter; back, the foe;
      And the dark waters flow.

    As that salt air the stallion felt,
      He whimpers gayly, as if still is
    Upon his sight his native Scheldt,
    Or Skagger Rack, or Little Belt,--
      Their waving grass and silver lilies,
      Where browsed the amorous fillies.

    And o'er the tide some lady nags
      Blew back his challenge. Scarce could Herman
    Hold in his seat. "By John of Prague's
    True faith!" he thought, "thy spirit lags
      Not, Joost! Thy course thyself determine!"
      And plunges like a merman.

    Leander's spirit in the steed
      Inspired his stroke, not Herman's fear;
    And fast the island shores recede,
    Fast rise the rider's spirits freed,
      The golden mainland draws more near--
      "O gallant horse! 'tis here!"

VII.--ELUSION.

    Across the Kills the muskets crack--
      "Ha! ha!" Lord Herman waves his beaver:
    "Die of thy spleen ere I come back,
    Old Stuyvesant!" With a noise of wrack
      The fort blew up of his aggriever!--
      But not without retriever.

    For from the smoke two pigeons fly,
      One south, one westward, separating,
    And straight as arrows crossed the sky,
    With silent orders ("He must die
      Who comes hereafter. Lie in waiting!")
      Their snowy pinions freighting.

    They warn the men of Minisink;
      They warn the Dutchmen of Zuydt River.
    Now speed to Jersey's farther brink,
    Old horse, old master, ere ye shrink!--
      Or ambushed fall ere moonrise quiver,
      On paths where ye shall shiver.

    On went the twain till past the ford
      That red-walled Raritan led over,
    And lonely woodland shades explored.
    Unarmed with firelock or with sword,
      Free-hearted rode the forest rover,
      Of all wild kind the drover:

    Fled deer and bear before his coming,
      The wild-cat glared, the viper hissed;
    And died the long day's insect-drumming.
    Where things of night began their humming,
      And witchly phantoms went to tryst,
      Was Herman exorcist.

    "No land so tangled but my eye
      Can map its confines and its courses;
    Yet on life's map who can espy
    Where hides his foe--where he shall die?"
      So Herman said, and his resources
      Resigned unto his horse's.

    All night the steed instinctive travelled--
      His weary rider wept for him--
    Through unseen gulfs the whirlwind ravelled,
    Up moonlit beds of streamlets gravelled,
      Till halting every bleeding limb,
      He stands by something dim,

    And will not stir till morning breaks.
      "What is't I see, low clustering there,
    Beyond those broadening bays and lakes,
    That yonder point familiar makes?--
      Is it New Amstel, lowly fair,
      And this the Delaware?"

VIII.--THE ECHO.

    Lord Herman hugged his horse with pride;
      He raised his horn and blew so loudly,
    That more than echoes back replied:
    Horns answered louder; horsemen cried,
      And muskets banged, as if avowedly
      On Stuyvesant's errand proudly!

    "Die, traitor; fleér! though thou 'scape
      Our ambush on thy devil's racer,
    Caught here upon this marshy cape,
    Thy bones the muskrat's brood shall scrape,
      The sturgeon suck--Death thy embracer!"
      So shouts each sanguine chaser.

    To die in sight of Amstel's walls,
      And gallant Joost to die beside him?--
    O foolish blast, such fate that calls!
    O river that the heart appalls!
      Dear Joost may live. And they bestride him?
      "By hell! none else shall ride him!

    "My steed, thy limbs like mine are sore!
      Few years are left us ere the billows
    Roll over both. Come but once more,
    And to the bottom or the shore,
      Bear me and thee to happy pillows,
      Or 'neath the water willows!"

    He strokes old Joost. He bends him low.
      He winds his horn and laughs derision.
    One spring!--they've cleared the bog and sloe,
    And down the ebb tide buoyant go--
      That stately tide. So like a vision
      Of home, to Norse and Frisian,

    Where full a league spread Maas and Rhine,
      And in the marsh the rice-birds twitter;
    The long cranes pasture and the kine
    Loom lofty in the misty shine
      Of dawn and reedy islands glitter:
      Yet death all where is bitter.

    Ere out of range a volley peals,
      But greed too great made aye a blunder.
    His horse Lord Herman's self conceals,
    Yet once his horse and he go under,
      And rise again. No wound he feels.
      They hold their fire in wonder!

    Short of the mark the bullets splash:
      "Now drown thee, wizard! at thy pleasure,"
    The Dutchmen hiss through teeth they gnash.
    He answers not; for o'er the plash
      Of waves he hears Joost's gasping measure
      Of breath's fast wasting treasure.

IX.--PEGASUS.

    The sighs when dying comrades fall,
      Struck by the foe, are only sad;
    They leaped the ditch and climbed the wall,
    And shared the purpose of us all;
      The fame they have; the joy they had:
      "Rest in thy tracks, brave lad!"

    But thou, poor beast! unknown to fame,
      Whose heart is reached while ours is bounding,
    Amidst the victory's acclaim--
    By thee we kneel with more of shame,
      That bore us through the fight resounding,
      And dumbly took our wounding!

    Lord Herman saw the blood drops seethe,
      The nag's neck droop, the nostril bubble,
    And loosed the bridle from his teeth;
    Yet swam the old legs underneath,
      Invincibly. The gap they double;
      But further swim in trouble.

    And lovely Nature stretched her aid,
      Her sympathetic tow and eddy;
    The oars of air with azure blade,
    And silent gravities persuade
      And waft them onward, slow and steady--
      On duteous deeds aye ready.

    High leaped the perch. The hawk screamed joy.
      Under Joost's belly musically
    The ripples broke. Bright clouds convoy
    The brute that man would but destroy,
      And all instinctive agents rally
      Strong and medicinally.

    In vain! The gurgling waters suck
      That old life under. Herman swimming
    Seized but the horse tail. Like a buck
    Breasting a lake in wild woods' pluck,
      Joost rose, the glaze his bright eyes dimming,
      And blood his sockets brimming.

    Then voices speak and women cry.
      The treading feet find soil to stand.
    Above them the green ramparts lie,
    And twixt their shadows and the sky,
      The wondering burghers crowd the strand,
      And Herman help to land:

    "Now to Newcastle's English walls,
      Hail, Herman! and thy matchless stud!"
    Joost staggers up the bank and falls,
    And dying to his master crawls.
      Yields up his long solicitude,
      And spills his veins of blood.

    In Herman's arms his neck is prest,
      With martial pride his dark eye glazes;
    He feels the hand he loves the best
    Stroke fondly, and a chill of rest,
      As if he rolled in pasture daisies
      And heard in winds his praises:

    "O couldst thou speak, what wouldst thou say?
      I who can speak am dumb before thee.
    Thine eyes that drink Olympian day
    Where steeds of wings thy soul convey,
      With pride of eagles circling o'er thee:
      Thou seest I adore thee!

    "Bound to thy starry home and her
      Who brought me thee and left earth hollow!
    An honored grave thy bones inter,
    And painting shall thy fame confer,
      Ere in thy shining track I follow,
      Thou courser of Apollo!"

NOTE TO HERMAN OF BOHEMIA MANOR.[1]

The singular incident of this poem was published in 1862, in Rev. John Lednum's "Personal Rise
of Methodism," and in the following words:

"It is said that the Dutch had him (Herman) a prisoner of war, at one time, under sentence
of death, in New York. A short time before he was to be executed, he feigned himself to be
deranged in mind, and requested that his horse should be brought to him in the prison. The
horse was brought, finely caparisoned. Herman mounted him, and seemed to be performing military
exercises, when, on the first opportunity, he bolted through one of the large windows, that
was some fifteen feet above ground, leaped down, swam the North River, ran his horse through
Jersey, and alighted on the bank of the Delaware, opposite Newcastle, and thus made his escape
from death and the Dutch. This daring feat, tradition says, he had transferred to canvas--himself
represented as standing by the side of his charger, from whose nostrils the blood was flowing."--Page
277.

Such a singular and improbable story attracted great local attention, and in 1870, Francis
Vincent, publishing his "History of Delaware," wrote: "The author found this incident in both
Lednum and Foot, and has seen a copy of this painting. It is in the possession of James R.
Oldham, Esq., of Christiana Bridge, the only male descendant of Herman in Delaware State. He
is the seventh in descent from Augustin Herman."--Page 469.

In 1875, Rev. Charles P. Mallery, of Chesapeake City, a part of the Bohemia Manor, wrote in
the Elkton (Md.) Democrat as follows: "Herman resided on the Manor for more than twenty years,
during which time he once rode to New York on the back of his favorite horse, to reclaim his
long-neglected possessions there. He found his land occupied by squatters.... They secured
him, as they thought, for the night; but he soon found means to escape by leaping his horse
through a forced opening, swimming the North River, and continuing his flight through New Jersey
until he reached the shore opposite Newcastle, where he swam his horse across the Delaware
and was safe.... Dr. Spotswood, of Newcastle, told me that there was a tradition in his town
that the horse was buried there." Augustin Herman made the first drawing of New Amsterdam,
and early maps of Maryland and New England. He was the first speculator in city real estate
in America.

[Footnote 1: The Bohemia Manor is a tract of 18,000 acres of the best land on the Delaware
peninsula. It was granted to Augustine Herman, Bohemian, whose tombstone, now lying in the
yard of Richard Bayard, on the site of Herman's park, bears date 1661. He received the manor
for making an early map of Maryland, and granted a part of the land to the sect of Labadists.
In the course of a century it became the homestead of Senator Richard Bassett, heir of the
last lord of the manor, and of his son-in-law, Senator James A. Bayard, the first. Herman was
the principal historic personage about the head of the Chesapeake, and was Peter Stuyvesant's
diplomatist to New England as well as Maryland. The argument he made for the priority of the
Dutch settlement on the Delaware was the basis of the independence of Delaware State. The legend
of his escape from New York is told in several local books and newspapers, and it was the subject
of one of his paintings, as he was both draughtsman and designer. G. A. T.]

In 1876 I visited the relics of Herman on the Manor, and observed the topography and foliage.
I then undertook to put this legend into verse, but struck a short, ill-accommodating stanza,
in which I nevertheless persevered until the tale was told. I found that Herman had bought,
in 1652, "the Raritan Great Meadows and the territory along the Staten Island Kills from Ompoge,
or Amboy, to the Pechciesse Creek, and a tract on the south side of the Raritan, opposite Staten
Island" (see Broadhead, page 537). It at once occurred to me to put the seat of Herman's capture
by squatters on this property, and to take Staten Island's bold scenery as a contrast to that
of the head of the Chesapeake, whence Herman had ridden. He could, besides, more reasonably
swim the Kills than the North River with a horse, as a gentle prelude to swimming the Delaware.

One year before buying the above property (see Broadhead's "History of New York," page 526),
Peter Stuyvesant vindictively persecuted Herman, Lockerman, and others, who retired to Staten
Island to brood. These men belonged to "the popular party." I therefore had a hint to make
Stuyvesant himself the incarcerator of Herman in a fort, and the most available period seemed
to be subsequent to the capture of Dutch New York by the English, but before the Dutch settlements
on the Delaware were yielded. Stuyvesant surrendered New York September 8th, 1664. It was not
until October 10th that Newcastle on the Delaware surrendered. The theory of the poem is that
Herman, hearing New York to be English, like Maryland where he resided, repaired to his possessions.
Stuyvesant rallies the squatters against him and makes use of a fort on Staten Island, not
yet noticed by the English, as Herman's place of punishment. On Herman's escape this fort is
blown up. When Herman returns to Newcastle, it is no longer Dutch, but English. Four days is
the time of the action. The device of the carrier pigeons is possibly an anachronism, and also
the age of Herman. I have aimed to make the story reasonable, if not creditable.

KIDNAPPED.

A celebrated apostle of the Methodist sect, on the Eastern shore of Maryland, was the Rev.
Titus Bates. He had been twenty-six years engaged in the ministry, and was now a bronzed, worn,
failing man, consumed by the zeal of his order, but still anxious to continue his work and
die at his post. Like all his tribe, he was an itinerant, moving from town to town every second
year--these towns being his places of abode, while his fields of labor were called "circuits,"
and comprised many houses of worship scattered through the surrounding district. He had chosen
his wife with reference to his vocation, and she was equally earnest with himself. She attended
the sick, prayed with the dying, taught Sabbath-schools, and organized religious meetings among
the women. They had but one son, Paul, an odd, silent little fellow, who was thought to be
more bashful than bright; but his parents loved him tenderly, and argued the highest usefulness
from his still, sober, thoughtful habits. He was of a singularly dark complexion, with fine
black eyes and curling hair, and he was now old enough to ride to and fro with his father upon
the long pastoral journeys.

Paul's sixth birthday occurred on a raw Sunday in December. He had been promised, as a special
treat on that occasion, a visit to Hogson's Corner, an old meeting-house near the bay-side,
twenty miles distant. His mother woke him at an early hour, and, while he breakfasted, the
gray pony Bob came to the door in the "sulky." His mother bade him to be a good boy, and kissed
him; he took his seat upon a stool at his father's feet, and watched the stone parsonage fade
quickly out of sight. The last houses of the town vanished; they passed some squalid huts of
free negroes; and when, after an hour, they came to a grim, solitary hill, the snow began to
fall. It beat down very fast, whitening the frozen furrows in the fields, making pyramids of
the charred stumps, and bleaching the sinuous "worm-fences" which bordered the road. After
a while, they found a gate built across the way, and Paul leaped out to open it. The snow was
deep on the other side, and the little fellow's strength was taxed to push it back; but he
succeeded, and his father applauded him. Then there were other gates; for there were few public
highways here, and the routes led through private fields. It seemed that he had opened a great
many gates before they came to the forest, and then Paul wrapped his chilled wet feet in the
thick buffalo hide, and watched the dreary stretches of the pines moan by, the flakes still
falling, and the wheels of the sulky dragging in the drifts. The road was very lonely; his
father hummed snatches of hymns as they went, and the little boy shaped grotesque figures down
the dim aisles of the woods, and wondered how it would be with travellers lost in their depths.
He was not sorry when they reached the meeting-house--a black old pile of planks, propped upon
logs, with a long shelter-roof for horses down the side of the graveyard. A couple of sleighs,
a rough-covered wagon, called a "dearbourn," and several saddled horses, were tied beneath
the roof. Two very aged negroes were seen coming up one of the cross-roads, and the shining,
surging Chesapeake, bearing a few pale sails, was visible in the other direction. Some boors
were gossiping in the churchyard, slashing their boots with their riding-whips; one lean, solemn
man came out to welcome the preacher, addressing him as "Brother Bates;" and another led the
sulky into the wagon-shed, and treated Bob to some ears of corn, which he needed very much.

Then they all repaired to the church, which looked inside like a great barn. The beams and
shingles were bare; some swallows in the eaves flew and twittered at will; and a huge stove,
with branching pipes, stood in the naked aisle. The pews were hard and prim, and occupied by
pinch-visaged people; the pulpit was a plain shelf, with hanging oil-lamps on either side;
and over the door in the rear projected a rheumatic gallery, where the black communicants were
boxed up like criminals. A kind old woman gave Paul a ginger-cake, but his father motioned
him to put it in his pocket; and after he had warmed his feet, he was told to sit in the pew
nearest the preacher on what was called the "Amen side." Then the services began, the preacher
leading the hymns, and the cracked voices of the old ladies joining in at the wrong places.
But after a while a venerable negro in the gallery tuned up, and sang down the shrill swallows
with natural melody. The prayers were long, and broken by ejaculations from the pews. The text
was announced amid profound silence, after everybody had coughed several times, and then the
itinerant launched into his sermon. At first it was dry and argumentative, then burdened with
divisions and quotations, but in the end he closed the great book, and made one of those fierce,
feeling appeals--brimming with promises of grace and threatenings of hell--in words so homely
that all felt them true, while the wild, interpolated cries of the believers thrilled and terrified
the young.

Little Paul heard with pale lips these grim, religious revelations, and his child's fancy conjured
up awful pictures of worlds beyond the grave. He wondered that the birds dared riot in the
roof: the sky in the gable window was full of cloudy marvels; and the snow beat under the door,
like a shroud blown out of one of the churchyard tombs. The closing prayer was said at last,
the unconverted walked away, but five or six communicants remained to tell their experience
in the class-meeting. Paul's father gave him permission to go into the yard if he liked, and
the boy got into the sulky, beneath the buffalo, and heard the sobs and hymns floating dismally
on the wind. Grim shapes thronged his mind again, wherein the Bible stories were mingled with
tales of ghosts and strange nursery fables. They chased each other in and out, generating others
as they went, and then came drowsiness, and Paul slept.

The class-meeting lasted an hour. It was very fervent and demonstrative; and when it was over
the kind old lady who had given Paul the gingerbread asked the preacher home to dinner. She
said that roasted turkey, wild duck, and pumpkin-pie were waiting for them; and Mr. Bates thought
fondly what a treat it would be for Paul on his birthday. He was to preach again that afternoon,
seven miles away, and so moved briskly toward the sulky.

"The poor fellow is asleep," said the preacher, seeing that the curling head was not thrust
up at his approach. "I wonder of what he dreams?" He drew near as he spoke. Old Bob was munching
his corn sedately; the sulky had a saucy air; the robe nestled in the front, with the tiny
stool peeping from a corner; but Paul was not there. The preacher called aloud; the horses
raised their ears in reply, and the wheels crackled in the frozen crust. He called again; some
sleigh-bells jingled merrily, and then the pines moaned. He looked into the other vehicles;
he watched for the little foot-tracks in the snow; he ran back to the old church, and searched
beneath every pew.

"Brethren--sisters," he cried, "I cannot find my boy!" and his voice was tremulous. They gathered
round him and some said that Paul had ridden away with the worldly lads; others, that he was
hiding mischievously. But one silent bystander looked into the drifts, and traced four great
boot-marks close to the sulky. He followed them across the road into the pines, and out into
the road again, where they were lost in the multitude of impressions. "Brother," he faltered,
"God give you strength! your boy has been stolen--kidnapped!"

The old man staggered, but the kind old lady caught him, and as he leaned upon her shoulder
his face grew hard and blanched; then he removed his hat, and his gray hair streamed over his
gaunt features. "Let us pray!" he said.

The preacher plodded to his next appointment as if he had still a child, and his sermon was
as full and straightforward. He announced his bereavement from the pulpit when he had done,
and the whole country was alarmed and excited. He bore the tidings to his desolate home, and
his stricken wife heard it with a stern resignation. Thenceforward he preached more of the
burning pit, and less of the golden city; his eyes were full of fierce light, and his visage
grew long and ghastly. He denied himself all joys and comforts; his prayers rang in the midnight
through the gloomy parsonage; and he toiled in the ministry as if reckless of life, and anxious
to lose it in his Master's service. The end came at last; the world closed over the grim couple,
and they hoped through the grave's portal to find their child.

When Paul awoke from his nap in the sulky, he found himself far in the forest, and moving swiftly
forward. A huge negro, with bloodshot eyes, was transferring him to an evil-looking white man,
and he struggled in the latter's arms, crying for his papa.

The negro drew a long knife from his breast and flourished it before Paul's face. "Hold um
jaw, or I kill um dead!" he muttered. "Got um grave dug out yer."

"O yer young yerlin!" said the other man, boxing Paul's ears, "yer don't know yer own father,
don't yer? I'm yer parpa!"

"You are not," cried Paul. "Where are you taking me? Where is the church, and the sulky, and
old Bob?"

The negro drove his knife so close to Paul's throat that the boy flinched and shrieked.

"You dare to say fader to anybody," yelled the negro, "and I cut yo' heart out! You dare to
tell yer name, or yer fader's name, or wha yo come from, and I cut yo' eyes out! I cut yo'
heart and eyes out--do yo' yar?"

The lad was cowed into cold, tearless terror; he shrank from the glittering edge, and trembled
at the giant's murderous expression. He thought they had brought him to this lonely spot to
slay him, and he embraced silence as the only chance for his young life. He wondered if this
were not one of his wild imaginings, or if it had not something to do with the punishment pronounced
in the morning's fierce sermon.

The two men came to a ruined cabin after awhile; it was buried in deep shade; the logs were
worm-eaten, and the clay chimney had fallen down. They climbed by a creaking ladder into the
loft and laid Paul upon a ragged bed. A young negro woman and her child were there, and the
boy saw that her foot was shackled to the floor, for the chain rattled as she moved. They gave
him a piece of beef and a corn-cake, and stripping him of his tidy clothes, dressed him in
the coarse blue drilling worn by slaves. The two men drank frequently from the same bottle,
talking in low tones, and after a time both of them lay down and slept. The woman dandled her
child to and fro, for it moaned painfully, and the pines without made a deep dirge. No birds
trilled or screamed in this desert place, but a roaring as of loud waters was borne now and
then on the twilight; it was the bay close below them, making thunder upon the beach.

When Paul woke from his second sleep he was on the deck of a vessel. The shore lay beneath
him, and the waves heaved behind. It was night; the snow-flakes still filtered through the
profound darkness, and the wind whistled in the rigging. A red lantern moved along the beach;
some voices were heard speaking together, and one of them said: "Don't be afraid of the boy;
I have sold lots paler than him. Lick him smartly if he gammons, and he'll tell no tales."

Then they lifted the anchor aboard; the tide floated off the sloop; they were soon scudding
before the wind under a freezing starlight. Two weary days passed over Paul, of travel by land
and water. They came to the city of Richmond at last, and marched him with five other unfortunates
to the common slave-pen. It was situated in a squalid suburb, surrounded by a high spiked wall,
and entered by an office from which a watchman could observe the interior through two grated
doors. The pen consisted of a paved area open to the sky, except on one side, where it was
protected by a shelving roof, and of a jail or den. The latter was walled up in a corner, but
its inmates could look out upon the area through a window in the door, and their savage features
revealed at the bars so terrified Paul that he retreated to the opposite corner, afraid to
look towards them. Now and then they howled and blasphemed; for two were delirious from drunkenness
and one was desperate from rage, and as they moved like tigers to and fro, their irons clanked
behind them, dragging on the stone floor. A number of women were huddled together beneath the
roof, some as fair as Paul, others as black as ebony. Some had babes at their breasts, others
had no regard for their offspring, but sat stolidly apart while their children cried for nourishment.
In the open place a bevy of the coarser inmates were holding a rude dance, a large gray-haired
man patted time or "juber" with his feet and hands, calling the figures huskily aloud; while
the women, with bright turbans tied around their heads, grinned and screamed with glee as they
followed the measure with their large, heavy shoes.

Their efforts were directed not so much to grace as to strength, for some kept up the dance
for a whole hour, divesting themselves of parcels of clothing as they proceeded, and breathing
hard as if weary to exhaustion. The men applauded vociferously, coupling the names of the performers
with wild ejaculations, but subsiding when the keeper appeared at the door occasionally to
command less noise. Remote from the bacchanals crouched a serious group of negroes, who sang
religious melodies, quite oblivious of their wild associates; and in still another quarter
a humorous fellow was enlivening his constituents with odd sayings and stories. Paul's heart
sank within him as he looked upon these scenes. A sense of his degradation rushed over his
young mind, and he threw himself upon the stones with his head in his hands, and wept hot tears
of bitterness. Henceforth he should be a creature, a thing, a slave! He must know no ambition
but indolence, no bliss but ignorance, no rest but sleep, no hope but death! Long leagues must
interpose between himself and his home; he should never kiss his mother again, or kneel with
his father in the holiness of prayer. The recollections of his childhood would be crushed out
by agonizing experiences of bondage; he would forget his name and the face of his friends,
and at last preserve only the horrible consciousness that he was the chattel of his master!

The uproar continued far into the night; one poor creature was delivered of a child in the
hazy light of the morning. Paul was too young to think much of the matter, for his own sorrows
engrossed him; but he often recurred, in his subsequent career, to the romance of that bondwoman,
and the soul which first felt the breath of life in the precincts of the slave shamble. What
a childhood must it have had to look back upon--cradled in disgrace, sung to sleep with the
simple melodies of grief, bred for no high purposes, but with the one distinct and dreadful
idea of gain--to be filched from that dusky bosom when its little limbs had first essayed motion,
that its feeble lips might lisp the accents of servility. Days and weeks passed over Paul,
but he found no opportunity to tell his story. They kept him purposely that he might forget
it, or feel the hopelessness of relating it. Other wretches came and went, till there remained
none of the original inmates of his prison, and he learned to mingle with his coarse companions,
joining sometimes in their gayety, and the high walls stood forever between his dreams and
the sky till the sombre shadows were printed upon his heart.

The boy's turn came at length. He climbed the auction block before the gaping multitude, and
leaped to show his suppleness. They were pleased with his still serious manner, the paleness
of his skin, his thoughtful eyes, and the shining ringlets of his hair. Bids were bandied briskly
upon him, and the auctioneer rattled glibly of the rare lot to be sold.

"Who owns the boy?" cried a bystander.

"Colonel James Purnell, of the Eastern shore," answered the auctioneer. "His mother is a likely
piece that will be in the market presently."

Tears came to Paul's eyes, but he held down the great sob that started to his throat, and called
lustily: "It is a wicked story! My father is white, and my mother is white! I am not a slave,
and they have stolen me!"

A loud, long laugh broke from the crowd, and the trader cracked a merry joke, which helped
the pleasantry.

"We may call that a 'white lie,'" he said; "but it is a peart lad, and the air with which he
told it is worth a cool hundred! Going at four hundred dollars--four hundred," etc.

The bidding recommenced. The article rose in esteem, and Paul was pushed from the block into
the arms of a tall, angular person, who led him into the city. That afternoon he was placed
in a railway carriage, and on the third night he was quartered in Mobile, at the dwelling of
his purchaser. The tall person proved to be the agent of a rich old lady--a childless widow--who
required a handsome, active lad, to wait upon her person, and make a good appearance in the
drawing-room.

She had many servants; but Paul was not compelled to associate with them, and his duties were
light, though menial. When his mistress went out to walk, he must carry her spaniel in his
arms. He must stand behind her at dinner, wielding a fly-brush of peacock's feathers. He must
run errands, and be equally ready to serve her whims and satisfy her wants. She was not harsh,
but very petulant; and had Paul been hasty or high-tempered, his lot might have been a bitter
one. On the contrary, he was quiet, docile, and bashful, and he pleased her marvellously. If
he sometimes wept for the happy past, or felt a child's strong yearning for something to love,
he hid his grief from those about him, and sought that consolation which the world cannot take
away in the simple prayers he had conned from his mother. He was a slave, but not a negro.
His pleasures were not theirs, for he had quick intelligence, and he shrank from their loud,
lewd glee. Their blood had thickened through generations of bondage, and trained in the harness
of beasts, they had become creatures of draught. His had rippled bright and brisk through generations
of freedom, and a year could not drag him to their level. He had learned to read and write,
and it was his habit to stand at the window in his leisure moments, adding to his information
from some pleasant book; but his mistress supposed that he was looking at the pictures merely,
till one day, entering the dining-room softly, she heard him reading aloud. He had a sweet,
boy's voice, which somewhat pacified the anger she felt at such presumption in a slave; and
though at first rebuking him, she reconsidered the matter during the evening, and bade him
read to her from a new novel. Henceforward Paul gained favor, and his mistress found it convenient
to employ him as an amanuensis. She released him from menial duties, and gave him neat attire,
and it was wonderful how well these accessories became him. He was unassuming, as before, submitting
with patience to his lot; and at length he became indispensable to Mrs. Everett. Her attachment
to books of fiction amounted to dissipation, and the part that he bore in their perusal filled
his warm imagination till his fancies were brighter than romance--they became poetry. The one
great grief of his life touched his whole face with a pensive melancholy, but he forebore to
tell them his true history again, preferring to wait for some golden moment when he might be
believed and emancipated.

From the beginning Mrs. Everett's agent disliked him. Wait was a Northern adventurer, cool,
courageous, and ambitious, who had settled in the South with the resolution of becoming rich,
and he had pursued his purpose with steady inflexibility. He was not a bad man, but a bitter
one, and Paul had in some sort divided Mrs. Everett's esteem from him. Previously he had been
her sole and undisputed adviser, and as she was readily influenced, he hoped, in course of
time, to be acceptable as her second husband. He was young and manly, and she was giddy and
middle-aged. Her relatives held him in contempt, but he had proved his courage, and they did
not care to cross him. But with the coming of Paul he had lost somewhat of her regard, and
he had laid it to the boy's charge. Paul read his calm purpose in his keen eyes, and he shuddered
at the thought of some day falling into his relentless hands. He labored to conciliate his
enemy, but with little effect, until one afternoon, Wait told him to obtain permission from
Mrs. Everett and come to the office. He dictated some ambiguous letters to Paul, and gave him
many papers to burn, meanwhile inspecting a pair of long pistols which he took from a portmanteau.
It was late in the afternoon when he had done, and then he bade Paul take the case of pistols,
slip quietly into the street, and walk straight on till he was overtaken. He obeyed, not without
suspicion, and when he reached the city limits found the agent, to his great surprise, seated
in a carriage. Two other persons attended him, and one, who was bald and wore glasses, had
a case of surgical instruments lying at his feet. Paul climbed to the driver's box, and they
dashed along by the water-side, meeting a second carriage on their way. The last rays of sunset
were streaming over the low landscape when both carriages stopped, their occupants dismounted,
and Wait came to the front and reached up his hand to Paul.

"Good-by, boy," he said in a tone of unwonted tenderness; "remain here a moment and you will
see me again!"

They filed along a dyke separating two swamps, and turning down to the beach, were hidden behind
a line of cypress trees. For a few moments Paul only heard the roar of the surf, the noise
of the distant town, and the short breathing of the sedate negro beside him. Then there were
shouts, as of a person counting rapidly, and two reports so close that one seemed the echo
of the other. A few minutes afterward the agent appeared, leaning upon the arms of his attendants.
He was divested of coat and vest, and as he came nearer, bareheaded, Paul saw that his face
was colorless and working as from deadly pain. His shirt was perforated close to the collar,
and the blood flowing beneath had stained it to his waist, and dripped in a runnel from his
boots. He fainted when he had taken his seat; and as the carriage rolled away, Paul looked
back toward the duelling-ground, and beheld two men bearing upon their shoulders a stiff, straight
burden, wrapped in a cloak.

The second carriage passed him, driven swiftly, and it seemed to emit a chill draught upon
Paul like the damp wind from a tomb; it was the presence of death, at whose very mention we
grow cold.

Wait had vindicated his courage, but at the expense of his life. He lingered on in agony many
days; and Paul so pitied him that he stole into his darkened chamber and begged to do him kindnesses.
The grim man lay implacable, waiting for death; but one night as he writhed with the dew upon
his forehead, Paul heard him mutter, "My God! my mother!"

The boy remembered a quaint text of Scripture: "Save me, O God! for the waters have come in
unto my soul;" and he repeated it in the strong man's ear. "Go on," cried Wait, rising upon
his elbow; "I have heard that before: tell me the rest."

"I have the good book here," replied Paul. "I am sure it will be pleasant to you, sir, if you
will let me read."

"Do so, boy; I used to know it well. An old friend taught those strange words to me, but I
have forgotten them now."

Paul read some soothing and beautiful Psalms, which took his companion's mind back to his native
mountains, and the white spire of the village church where he had worshipped with his mother.
The hard lines melted in his face as he listened, but Paul fell upon a bitter verse, and the
agent's conscience began to trouble him. He could not look into the boy's eyes, for they seemed
to rebuke him, and at last he commanded Paul to stop.

It was midnight. They heard the great clock in the hall strike twelve, and all the household
slumbered.

"Go to your mistress's room," said Wait; "tell her that I must see her now--she must come at
once. The morning may never come to me. Go; God bless you!"

He called Paul back when he had got to the door, and added falteringly:

"My boy, do you say your prayers?"

"Yes, sir."

"Would you mind thinking of me when you say them to-night?"

"I do so every night, sir."

"Good-night!"

Paul heard the agent sobbing as he stole away; but when he knocked at Mrs. Everett's door she
answered petulantly, and at first she refused to rise. She had little self-denial; it would
pain her to enter a dying chamber; and she would have left Wait to perish, had not some strange
passage from the romance entered her head of dead folk, with secrets on their minds, haunting
the living. It would be very terrible to be haunted, and the old woman was frightened into
obedience. When she returned her mind was disquieted, and she made Paul stay in her room to
compose her with cheerful talk. Finally she fell asleep, and he hastened to the agent's chamber.
It was very dark within, and he waited a moment that the other might recognize him. Wait seemed
to be in deep slumber, though Paul could not hear him breathe; but as the lad ventured to place
his head upon the quilt, it encountered a hand so cold and hard that it seemed to be marble.
Paul knew that he need no longer remember his enemy in his prayers.

What transpired between his mistress and her agent at this dying interview Paul could not surmise,
but he believed that it concerned himself. He perceived that Mrs. Everett treated him more
considerately afterward; and many times, as he looked up from a long silence, he found her
regarding him inquisitively. She asked him strange questions once, bearing upon his early life,
and he was almost encouraged to reveal the secret of his birth; but she seemed to divine his
purpose, and changed the theme. Something troubled her, he knew; and when he applied himself
to conciliate and cheer her, at those moments she suffered most. Had she loved the stern, ambitious
man whose closed chamber still chilled her mansion? Was it because she was childless, and travelling
graveward? Or did she cherish a mother's feeling for Paul, and wish that he was of her race,
and worthy to be her son? Toward each of these theories he inclined, favoring the last, and
finally he concluded that she did not love, but feared him. He had grown tall and manly. An
individual beauty, rather of mind than of face, developed in him, and his mistress had been
prodigal of favors, so that his dress and ornaments corresponded with his person. He might
have ruled, rather than served in her dwelling; but content with the recognition of his equality,
he maintained the same modest guise, and his mistress felt an uneasy pride in his promotion.
One day he found her weeping, and when he spoke she answered bitterly:

"Paul, you have ceased to love me; you are ungrateful; you wish to be free--you would leave me!"

He responded pleasantly--for he had become familiar with such moods--that he had found a new
romance which he would read. It was not a long story, but a thrilling one, and based upon the
simple narrative of Joseph in bondage. The outline was true, the details were fabulous, and
the old lady marvelled that a theme so trite could be so well embellished. He read far into
the night, and she bade him leave the book upon her table, that she might peruse it again.

"It is manuscript," he said, "and this is the only copy."

"Why, Paul," she said, "how came you by it?"

"I wrote it myself."

Paul was indeed the author, having filled in the sorrows of his hero from his own experiences.
Mrs. Everett was loud in its praises; she was sure that it indicated genius, and she lay awake
that night meditating an act of charity and of justice. She would make a free man of Paul,
and he should find in far lands that equality which he could not obtain in his own. They would
journey together. He should have means and advantages, and become her protégé and heir. But
the strong self-love defeated this resolve. If Paul were not bound to her by law, he might
forsake her, and she could not bear to lose him, for he had become a part of her heart; but
when she broached the matter, Paul gave his parole never to leave her without consent.

He was still a slave, with the taint of a trampled race in his blood, and he said nothing to
Mrs. Everett of his origin. They crossed the seas; they dwelt in pleasant places, beneath soft
skies; and Paul grew in knowledge. But his patron was still harassed by some deep remorse.
She hurried him from city to city like the fabled apostate, and at length fell sick in London,
on the eve of their return to America. Paul gleaned from her ravings in delirium the cause
of her unrest. Wait had made known to her on the night of his decease the secret of the young
man's origin, and had conjured her to do justice to the lad. Her self-love had deterred her
in consummating this duty, and conscience had therefore tortured her. She was enabled to reach
New York, where she left the preacher's son the bulk of her property, and received his gratitude
and forgiveness before she died.

Paul was free--haunted no longer by premonitions of future suffering; and his first impulse
was to return to the Eastern shore and discover his desolate parents. His recollections of
them were imperfect. He preserved many trifling circumstances, though more important events
were forgotten; but as he made his way to the old village his heart beat high. There were the
negro quarters, the cornfields, the twisting fences, and, at last, the shady stone parsonage--recollections
they seemed of objects beheld in a foggy dream. They directed him to the Methodist Church--a
prim, square structure in the centre of the village--a tavern on one side, a court-house and
market on the other; and when the sexton threw open a window, the bleared light fell upon a
marble slab set in the wall:

          "Near this spot lie the remains of
               REV. TITUS BATES,
      for two years Pastor of this Congregation,
          and of PEGGY, his Wife.
   'They have ceased from their labors, and their
               works do follow them.'"

Paul's hopes fell. He walked through the village friendless, and, impelled by his swift-coming
fancies, strolled far into the suburbs. A crowd was collected round a squalid negro cabin,
and, less by interest than by instinct, he bent his steps toward it.

"What is the matter, friend?" he asked of a bystander.

"The boys hez scented kidnappers to this shanty," answered the man; "and by doggy! they going
to trap 'em!"

The mob seemed to be fearfully incensed as Paul pushed close to the scene. There were said
to be two of the man-stealers, both of whom had been very daring and successful. He heard their
names called as Peter Gettis and Dave Goule, and the opinion was expressed that the first-named
would not yield without a desperate struggle. The mob was hot and clamorous, and while a selected
committee entered the den to search it, the rest brandished clubs and knives, and yelled for
justice and blood. Word came at length that the kidnappers were concealed beneath the floor
of the cabin; and at the hint, a score of stalwart fellows began to pull up the planks, while
their associates formed a wide circle around, prepared to prevent escape.

Finally, the cry arose: "Here they air! This is them! Drag 'em out! Whoo-oop!"

The men within the cabin rushed through the doors and windows as if pursued, and a stalwart
negro, with bloodshot eyes, almost naked, and flourishing a huge knife, staggered to the threshold,
and glared fiercely round him.

The circle stood firm; some were clubbing their cudgels, others lifting their blades, and here
and there along the line rang out the click of a pistol.

"Come, Pete," cried one of the ringleaders; "you're treed, Pete! Don't be a fool, but give
yourself in."

The negro gnashed his teeth, and his wild eyes glared like coals of fire.

"Do you give me faih-play?" he bellowed, extending the knife.

"Yes, Pete, yes," answered the multitude.

"Then look heah," answered the wretch, drawing his knife across his throat. He staggered into
the air like an ox, cursing as he came. They parted to avoid him, and as he reached a fence,
a few rods from the cabin, he leaned upon it, and swaying to and fro, raised his horrible eyes
to the sky.

Paul recognized his ancient captor with a thrill and a silent prayer. Vengeance had come in
His own good time, and Paul felt no bitterness toward the poor fellow, but prayed forgiveness
for his slipping soul.

The second offender burrowed so remotely that the mob could not drag him from his covert. They
struck at him with knives, and hired dogs to creep beneath the logs and rend him, but in vain.
At length one of the ringleaders obtained a torch, and the cabin was fired in several places.
The flames spouted into the night, bursting from the small windows, and the roof fell in with
a crash, scattering ashes and red-hot coals. They could hear the shriek of the victim now,
and he was seen dancing among the fire-brands, for the blaze encircled him like an impassable
wall. He made a desperate rush at length to overleap the fire, and his figure, magnified by
the red light, looked gigantic as he sprang high in the air. A dozen pistols clattered together--the
man fell heavily forward, tossing up his scorched hands, and the frizzing, cracking timbers
closed darkly above him to the thunder of his executioners' huzzas.

Paul did not reveal himself. He left the village stealthily, and journeyed northward. Years
afterwards a name was added to the tablet in the old church:

           "Here lie also the Remains of the
                REV. PAUL BATES.
             'He went about doing good.'"

THE JUDGE'S LAST TUNE.

    The Judge took down his fiddle,
      And put his feet on the stove,
    And heaved a sigh from his middle
      That might have been fat, or love;
    He leaned his head on the mantel,
      And bent his ear to the strings,
    And the tender chords awakened
      The echoes of many things.

    The Bar had enjoyed the measure,
      The Bench and Senate had been
    Amused at the simple pleasure
      He drew from his violin;
    But weary of power and duty,
      He had laid them down with a sigh,
    Exhausted of life the beauty,
      And he fiddled he knew not why.

    In the days when passion budded,
      And she in the churchyard lain
    Came over his books as he studied
      With an exquisite pang of pain,
    He played to his sons their mother's
      Old favorites ere she wed;
    Those tunes, like hundreds of others,
      Were requiems of the dead.

    They lay in the kirk's inclosure:
      All three, in the shadows dim,
    In a cenotaph's cynosure
      That waited for only him,
    Who sat with his fiddle tuning
      On the spot where his fame was won,
    On the empty world communing,
      Without a wife or a son.

    And he drew his bow so plaintive
      And loud, like a human cry,
    That the light of the shutter darkened
      From somebody passing by.
    A young man peeped at the pensive
      Great man, so familiar known;
    His features, if inoffensive,
      Were like to the judge's own.

    "Come in," cried the politician--
      "Come not," his soul would have said--
    "Thou bringest to me a vision
      Of a sin ere thy mother wed,
    When I, wild boy from college,
      Her humble desert o'ercame,
    And we hid the guilty knowledge
      Beneath thy father's name."

    The youth delayed no longer,
      His sense of music strong,
    Nor knew of his mother's wronger,
      Nor that she had known a wrong;
    Deep in the grave the secret
      Her husband might never guess.
    He stood before his father
      With a loyal gentleness.

    "What tune, fair boy, desirest
      My old friend's worthy son?--
    Say but what thou requirest,
      And for father's sake 'tis done."
    "Oh! Judge, our State's defender,
      Whose life has all been power,
    Play me the tune most tender,
      When thou felt thy greatest hour!"

    The old man thought a minute,
      Irresolutely stirred,
    As if his fiddle's humor
      Changed like a mocking-bird;
    Then, as his tears came raining
      Upon the plaintive chords,
    He played the invitation
      To the sinner, of his Lord's.

    "Come, poor and needy sinners,
      And weak and sick, and sore,
    The patient Jesus lingers
      To draw you through the door."
    It was a tune remembered
      From old revival nights,
    In crowded country churches,
      Where dimly blew the lights.

    And boys grew superstitious
      To hear the mourners wail.
    The great man, self-degraded,
      So sighed his contrite tale
    In notes that failed for sobbing,
      To feel Heaven's sentence well,
    That took away his Isaac
      And blessed the Ishmael.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Low in the tomb of glory
      The old man's ashes lie--
    Unuttered this my story,
      Unwritten to human eye;
    And the young man, blessed and blessing,
      Walks over the shady town,
    The evil passions repressing,
      And his head bent humbly down.

    Perhaps he marvels why treasure
      Of the judge to his credit is set,
    And an old revival measure
      Should have been the statesman's pet.
    But he hears the invitation,
      And sees the streaming eyes
    Of the old man lost to the nation,
      And forgiven beyond the skies.

DOMINION OVER THE FISH.

"A gift-book for Christmas. A poem preferred. Limited text, and profuse illustration." What
should it be?

As if by invocation, the Ancient Mariner rose before me! He stood in the doorway of my office,
and held me with his glittering eye. He lifted his skinny hand to his long gray beard, and
then gravely tipped his oiled hat. "The reader for Spry, Stromboli, and Smith?"

I had that honor, and handed him a chair. He sat in it after the manner of a flounder, concentrated
his eye upon me like a star-fish, and produced a roll of manuscript with the fluttering claws
of a lobster. Then he stirred and squirmed, like an elderly eel, looking distrustfully into
the vestibule. I closed the door and begged to be informed of his business.

"I have a great work for you," he said mysteriously, proffering his manuscript. As he leaned
over to do this, I saw a shining something on the top of his head, but the thick white hair
concealed it when he resumed his place. The manuscript smelled as if it had contained mackerel,
and looked as if it had come from the bottom of the sea. I found, curiously enough, some fish-scales
adhering to it, and its title very oddly confirmed these testimonies--"Five Years in the Great
Deep."

I glanced at the author with some surprise. He was the quaintest of mariners, and if I had
met him leagues under the sea, I should have thought him in his proper element. His locks were
like dry sea-weed; his cheeks were so swollen that they might have contained gills, but this
was probably tobacco. When he wiped his nose with a handkerchief like a scoop-net, some shells
and pebbles fell from his pocket, and his ears flapped like a pair of ventrals. I remarked
as he pursued the lost articles over the floor, that he wore a microscope strapped in a leathern
case, and a geological hammer belted to his side. He walked as if habituated to swimming, and
when he shrugged his shoulders I expected to see a dorsal fin burst out of the back of his
jacket. He might have been sixty years of age, but looked much older, and behaved like a well-born
person, though, superficially judged, he might have lived in Billingsgate.

"A good title for a fiction," I said encouragingly.

"I never penned a line of fiction in my life," exclaimed my visitor sternly.

Referring to the copy again, I saw that it purported to be the work of "Rudentia Jones, Fellow
of the Palæontologic Society, Entomologist to the Institute for Harmonizing the Universes,
and Ruler of Subaqueous Creation, excepting the Finny Mammalia."

"Ah! I see," said I; "a capital title for a satire!"

"Life is too grave, and science too sacred," replied my visitor, "for the indulgence of idle
banterings. The work is mine; I am its hero; and it is all true." He wore so earnest a face,
and looked so directly and intelligently at me, that I forebore to smile. "I have travelled
in strange countries," he said; "Nature has been bountiful in her revelations to me, indeed;
my experiences have been so individual, that I sometimes discredit them myself. I do not complain
that others ridicule them."

He spoke in the manner of one devoted to his species; and an easy dignity, which some trace
to high birth and the consciousness of dominion, became him very naturally. The eldest of the
admirals, or old Neptune himself, could not have seemed more kingly; but once or twice he started
at a noise from the publishing-house, as if longing to get back to his legitimate brine. I
told him to leave the manuscript in my hands for a fortnight, that I might form an opinion
as to its claims for publication.

"No!" he said quickly. "It is not a girl's romance, or a boy's poem, or the strollings of a
man-errant: it is of such rare value that gold cannot purchase it; it is so priceless that
I cannot own it myself; it is like the air, or the water, or the light, or the magnet--the
property of all the peoples. It must not leave my sight. I must read it to you now!"

He literally held me with his eye. He stood erect dilating, until he seemed to reach the height
of a mainmast, as long and lank and brown as the subject of the veritable rime; and his ears,
contracted, flapped like the pectorals of a flying-fish. It was uncertain whether he was going
to fly or swim, or seize and shake me. I believed him to be either a lunatic or an apparition;
but when the frenzy of the moment was over, he became a very harmless, kindly, and grave old
gentleman, who begged my pardon for transgressing decorum in the enthusiasm for his "great
work." He still smelled abominably of fish, but I could not take it into my heart to be harsh
with this most pertinacious of authors.

I had been but a short time in the service of Spry, Stromboli & Smith, and my nerves had not
yet been exercised by sensitive and eccentric writers. I had led a vagabond career myself,
and had frequent reason, in my incipient literary days, to be grieved with publishers' "readers;"
and when promoted to the same exalted place, I resolved to be charitable, careful, and obliging--to
do as I would be done by--to crush no delicate Keats, to enrage no Johnson, by slight, prejudice,
or deprecation. But to suffer the infliction of a crack-brained old naturalist, repeating an
interminable manuscript in my own office, went beyond my best resolve! Still there was little
to do. It would be a paltry task to select a poem for illustration, and had not this same Ancient
Mariner suggested an admirable one?

"I can grant your request in part, Mr. Jones," I said at length; "you may read one hour; and
if at the end of that period I do not think favorably of your article, you must promise to
read no further."

The old gentleman gave his parole at once, took a pair of great green spectacles from a sea-grass
case, and blowing his nose again, rained pebbles and marine shells over the whole office. When
he took the manuscript from my hand, I saw the shining something distinctly on the top of his
head; and when he sat back to read, he was a perfect copy of a dry old king-fish, looking through
a pair of staring, glaring, green eyes. Without more ado, and in a rippling kind of voice,
as of the rushing of deep water, the old naturalist read the following introduction to a most
wonderful manuscript:

"At a very early period of my life I manifested an inclination for the study of the sciences.
In my eighteenth year I submitted a theory of inter-stellar telegraphing to the Gymnotian Academy.
It was my purpose to have placed the papers simultaneously before the scientific bodies of
each of the seven planets in our constellation, but having no capital, the design failed, though
I was complimented thereupon by the 'Institute for Harmonizing the Universes,' and elected
a contributing member of that society. For several years I petitioned annually for outfit and
transportation to Scilly Islands,[2] on the Ecliptic Circle, where I purposed to develop my
scheme of transferring a portion of our globe to the system of Orion. In this I was opposed
by the Palæontologic Society, on the ground that some valuable fossils were presumed to be
there; and Parliament, opining that my protests were subversive of the law of gravity, rejected
them. A number of projects, each of which, I firmly believe, would have benefited my kind,
and facilitated correspondence between all created beings, terminated unfortunately, and my
relatives at length placed it out of my power to continue these philanthropic exertions. For
some years I was denied the ear of man, and in the interval my hair grew gray and my body a
trifle faint. But the lofty impulses of youth survived. My mind could not be imprisoned, and
I held communication with the stars through the grating of my chamber in the still midnight.
At last the relief came. I had long prayed for it! My deliverer was Sirius, the brightest of
the celestial intelligences. He shone upon my window bars with an intense concentrated light,
and they reddened and melted before daybreak. I fled to Glasgow in the month of April, 184-,
and obtained a captain's clerkship on the whaler Crimson Dragon.

[Footnote 2: This group of Scilly Islands is in the South Pacific; not off Land's End.]

"We took in water at the Shetland Islands, and sailing north-westward, skirted the coast of
Greenland, whence, cruising in a southerly direction, we lay off Labrador, and waited for our
prey. Our crew was fifty men, all told. Our captain had been a whaler thirty-eight years, and
had killed five hundred and six animals or eight more than the renowned Scoresby. We carried
seven light-boats for actual service, and twenty-seven thousand feet, or more than five miles,
of rope. Three men kept watch, day and night, in the 'crow's-nest,' at the maintop; but though
we beat along the whole coast, through Davis' Strait, and among the mighty icebergs of Baffin's
Bay, we saw no cetaceous creatures, save twice some floundering porpoises, and thrice a solitary
grampus. With these beings I endeavored to open communication, but they made no intelligible
responses. The stars also of this latitude failed to comprehend my signals, from which I concluded
that they were less intelligent than those of more temperate skies. But with the animalcules
of the sea I obtained most gratifying relations. A series of experiments with the infusoria
satisfied me that they were not loath to an exchange of information, and finally they followed
the ship by myriads, so that all the waves were full of fire, which the sailors remarked; and
fearful of being observed, I ceased my experiments for a time.

"On the evening of the fifth Saturday of our cruise, I waited till the changing of the watch;
then I stole noiselessly upon deck, and secreted myself behind a life-boat which hung at the
side of the vessel. The helmsman was nodding silently upon his tiller; two seamen sat motionless
upon the bow, and the lookout party in the crow's-nest talked mutteringly of our ill-luck as
they scanned the horizon. The Northern Lights were pulsing like some great radiating heart,
and the sea was alternately flame and shadow. The headlands of Labrador lay to the south--bare,
boundless, precipitous; and to the east a glittering iceberg floated slowly towards us, like
a palace of gold and emerald. The ship rolled calmly upon the long swells, the ripples plashing
in low lulling monotone, and her hull and spars were reflected darkly beneath me. I drew a
long gray hair from my temple, and subjected it to a gentle friction between my palm and finger;
then I pricked my wrist, and leaning forward, placed it against my heart: five blood-drops--symbols
of the five types of organized creation--fell simmering into the depths, and the scintillant
hair, floating after them, described a true spiral. In an instant the Aurora grew bright to
blindness; there was a rush of infinite stars, and a host of beautiful beings fluttered to
the surface of the sea, within the shadow of the ship! A gull darted along the water, and in
the far distance I heard the bellow of the huge Greenland whale. All animate nature had acknowledged
my message; I had touched the nerve of the universes!

"'Blow me if there warn't a whale, Ben!' said one of the men in the maintop.

"'My eyes! but it wor like it,' replied the other.

"Fearful of being remarked, I slipped below, a second time disappointed, but with such exultant
feelings that I tried in vain to sleep. The intimacy of species and their common language,
lost in the degeneracy of the first human beings, were about to be restored by me. Confusion
had overcome the counsels of the countless things which had talked and dwelt together in the
past, but science was about to win back from sin the great secret of communication. I should
translate the scream of eagles and the cooing of doves; I should hear the gossip of my household
kittens, and speak familiarly with the mighty hippopotami. The serpent should teach me his
traditions, and the multitude of mollusks should develop the mysteries of their sluggish vitality;
nay, the plurality of worlds should be demonstrated, and with the combined intelligences of
all the systems, we should wrest the mysteries of life, matter, and eternity from their Divine
repository!

"I lay awake all night revelling in these anticipations, and at dawn was quite weak of body.
It was now the Sabbath, and at nine o'clock all hands were summoned to the poop-deck for the
customary worship. I lay upon a coil of rope, when the mate commenced to read the service,
and a deep drowsiness came over me. The lesson was a part of the first chapter of Genesis--the
weird history of creation. He had reached the twenty-eighth verse when I dropped asleep. It
could have been only an instant's forgetfulness, for when I awoke he had not finished the reading
of the same verse, but in that instant a vision had passed before me.

"A female of marvellous beauty rose from the water. I had seen the long green locks, the eyes
of azure, and the glossy neck--it was Tethys, the queen of the sea-nymphs. She was begotten
of humidity in the remote beginning, and seemed even now cloudy and incorporeal. Euripius,
the divinity of whirlpools, lay in the waves at her feet, projecting a spectrum of spray, in
an arch, above her head.

"'Man,' she said, or rather rippled, for it was like the even voice of waters, 'your love of
nature, the boundlessness of your kindness, the daring of your speculation, the profoundness
of your introspection, have made you one of us. Awake, and hear our decree!'

"She melted into vapor, and disappeared. I opened my eyes. The crew were grouped about the
deck, the mate was reading the lesson, the words which I heard were: 'Have dominion over the fish!'

"'A fall! a fall!' was shouted from the maintop. The men on watch had discovered the long-expected
prey.

"'Man the boats!' cried the captain; 'all hands be spry! Where away, look out?'

"'Sou'-west!' answered the crow's-nest, 'about two leagues. There must be hoceans of 'em! They
'eave like water-spouts, and, lor! how they lobtail!'

"The seven boats were arranged in curved shape, so as to form a semicircle around the animals;
and the captain's, of which I took the helm, formed the left tip of the crescent. We pulled
steadily for a half-hour over a smooth sea, and came at length so close to our victims that
we could count them. Truly it was 'a fall'! A few cubs played recklessly around the surface;
but there was an enormous bull, whose bulk was much greater than that of the ship's hull, which
came once in full view, dived vertically, and beat the water with his terrible tail, making
such billows that a storm seemed to be raging. The other animals swam in the froth and foam
thus developed, now plunging to the far depths, now shooting their huge bodies into the air,
and falling with a splash, as of the emptying of the ocean. The scene was so exciting that
even my wonderful discoveries passed out of mind. Our oars dipped noiselessly; the crews were
silent; the harpooners stood, each in the bow of his launch, with naked weapons extended, waiting
to strike. The first opportunity occurred to the launch on our extreme right. At the distance
of twenty yards the executioner hurled his javelin full into the back of the great bull; a
roar ensued and a frightful leap. The other creatures repeated the agonized cry, and they swam
southward with the velocity of a ship under full sail.

"'Now, lads, bend your oars!' shouted the captain through his trumpet. The entire length of
rope unwound directly from the reel or 'bollard' of the first launch, and the line of a second
boat was attached forthwith; a third and a fourth were annexed, but the whale exhibited no
sign of exhaustion, and dragged his pursuers like the wind. A fifth and a sixth line spun out.
The captain's cheek grew pale, and he opened his clasp-knife with a curse upon his lips. There
remained the line of our boat alone: unless the monster stopped within ten minutes, we should
lose every foot of the ship's cordage, and this last rope would have to be severed. Tremulously
a seaman attached it; it was whirled out as if by a locomotive. The oars moved like light,
but no human activity could approach that of our victim. He nearly swamped the launch, and
the friction of the bollard threatened to set it ablaze.

"'What devil of the deep is this?' said the captain, bending forward with his blade. The sailors
ceased with hot faces, and stared aghast. I seemed to hear calling voices; I grew faint and
blind. The bollard snapped with a dead, dull sound; I was entangled in the stout twine, and
tossed into the sea. Some oars were thrown overboard, that I might be buoyed up. Three of the
launches were turned toward me, and the seamen called aloud that I should keep up courage.
But the line pulled me downward; my heart ceased to beat; I beheld with indescribable terror
the pale surface receding, and the dark shapes of the vessels above me were finally lost to
view. I knew that at the first inhalation the brine would fill my mouth and lungs; I held my
breath hard, and tried to pray. Down, down, down into the blue depths--a cycle of protracted
years it seemed! My ears were stunned with strange noises; my lips parted, and at length the
sea rushed into my throat; for an instant I seemed to strangle, but I did not perish.

"The fluid was mysteriously expelled from me. I breathed as freely of the water as a moment
before I had breathed of the air! A weight was lifted from my brain, which had before been
crushing it, and my temples grew suddenly cool. A spiracle had developed at the apex of my
cranium, and I exuded water through a cavity or 'blow-hole' in the top of my head, like the
cetacea around me!"

The naturalist here paused and ran his hand through his hair. The shining something among his
gray locks revealed itself as a plate of silver, circular in shape, covering what had evidently
been an opening in the skull. He looked less like a man than ever, and when, consulting a glutinous
old chronometer, like a jellyfish, he found that his hour was passing, he begged so earnestly
to be allowed to finish his "Introduction," that I gave him leave. A boy coming in with copy
so frightened him, however, that I thought he was going to turn upon his stomach, and swim
away through the window.

"I became sensible directly of three organic changes: my heels clave together, my feet flattened,
and my toes turned out, like a caudal fin; my integument grew thick and hard, and my blood
thin and chill. But these conditions being novel to me, and my fears only equalled by my wonder
as yet, I was paralyzed, and continued to sink. I had descended about one hundred fathoms,
and was experiencing a strange oppression, as of the forcing together of my bones, when I heard
a sonorous voice close below me say! 'If you go any deeper, you will sustain a pressure of
twenty atmospheres, and may not get back at all.'"

I looked beneath, and to my horror a huge whale was coming upward with extended jaws. His half-human
eyes were turned benignantly upon me; but he was evidently in pain, and from a point in his
back, where a broken harpoon still remained, gouts of blood curdled upward, coloring the water.
His vocal power lay in his spiracle, and he said again:

"'I should have been asphyxiated in five minutes.'

"'Who is it that speaks?' I faltered. 'Leviathan, king of the sea, be merciful!'

"'I am called New England Tom by the creatures of the upper element,' answered the whale, 'although
falsely thought to be of the family of the Spermaceti; but though my exploits have recommended
me to my species, I am not equal to the high title you have given me. That is possessed by
you and our sovereign Jonah only!'

"The conviction rushed upon me that I had, indeed, 'dominion over the fish'!

"'I have suffered this wound for your majesty's sake,' said the whale again; 'for I had been
deputed to wait in this latitude for your arrival, and convey you to our sovereign. But though
I am now in the third century of my age, I can survive a dozen such prickings, and if I chose
could shiver the Crimson Dragon with a blow of my tail, as in 1804 I stove the Essex, and made
driftwood of her spars.'

"In an instant I was seated within the mighty maw of this famous monster. His jaw-bones were
forty feet in length; the roof of his mouth was fifteen feet high, and formed of a spacious
arch of 'balleen,' or whale-bone. His crescent-shaped tail, thirty-five feet from tip to tip,
swept the depths twice or thrice; and when we emerged into the air, the blood spouted from
his pores, and he threw cataracts of water through his spiracle. I saw the Crimson Dragon some
miles away, but there were no traces of her boats. The crews of the launches were fathoms deep
in the ocean!

"I passed the cape of Greenland, rounded the base of Mount Hecla, and was escorted to the abode
of the king of the cetacea by a multitude of his subjects. A submarine island, forty fathoms
from the surface, had been occupied three thousand years by this venerable person. He came
out to meet me upon the back of a mighty 'rorqual,' and a body-guard of four hundred picked
narwhals swam before him. Fifty white whales surrounded their monarch, and a host of dolphins,
grampuses, and porpoises brought up the rear. Banners of dyed seal-skin bore his arms--three
gourds, argent, upon a field vert; and with these were carried as trophies the wrecks of ships,
including the identical shallop whence he was expelled on the voyage to Tarshish. But, marvellous
beyond all, the 'great fish' (falsely so translated, since no cetaceous creature can be denominated
a fish) into which he was received still lived, and accompanied him. It was now the eldest
of the species, but very sprightly, and burdened with dignities. The Seer-King saluted gravely,
and gave me a draught of spirits, distilled from the fronds of a rare sea-tangle. His long
tenure in the deep had obliterated much of the similitude to man, but his memory of terrestrial
matters was extraordinary. The weeds were wrapped about his head after the manner of a crown,
and he carried a sceptre of walrus tusk. He told me that his original three days' experience
under the sea had so cooled his blood, that the suns of Nineveh parched him, and he had cried
for cooling water. I informed him that Nineveh no longer existed, at which he was gratified
beyond measure; for his only knowledge of events happening on the earth had been derived from
the wrecks which had sunk into his domain. I found that he was badly informed upon matters
of science, and he heard my theories of harmonizing the universes with impatience. In his days,
he said, no such ideas were broached, and he was indifferent to the intellectual development
of his subjects.

"My visit was brief, for, though the palace of Jonah had a sepulchral grandeur about it--a
mighty cavern beneath the waves--yet the glittering stalactites which studded the roof, and
the cold columns of ice supporting its halls, nearly froze me, and at length I made ready to
depart.

"An escort of 'thrashers,' or grampuses, accompanied me. The Seer-King would have detached
a cohort of white whales, but the animosity of my tribes might have provoked combat. I left
the cetacea with some foreboding. They were allied in some degree to man; they were capable
of some human impressions; their blood was warm like mine; they breathed with lungs; they had
double hearts; and nourished kindness for their offspring. But I was now about to be delivered
over to the cold, cruel, gluttonous tribes of the fish. The family of sharks received me. They
could not be counted for multitude. The terrible requiem of the storm--the cannibal white shark--welcomed
me with open jaws; the blue shark flung up his caudal for joy; the fox-shark lashed the sea;
the northern shark glared through his purblind orbs; the hammer-head dilated his yellow irides;
the purple dog-fish made a low purring huzza; and the spotted eyes of the monk-fish glistened
with satisfaction. The hound-shark, the basking-shark, and the port-beagle were not less loyal;
and these, the most perfectly organized of my cartilaginous tribes, handed me over to the deep-swimming
Norwegian 'sea-rat.' Thus I kept steadily southward, the water growing warmer hour by hour,
now riding on the serrated snouts of saw-fishes, now moving in the midst of battalions of sword-fish,
now acknowledged by the great pike, now vaulting above the surface on the backs of flying-fish,
now clinging to the spines of sturgeons, now passing through illimitable shoals of cod, now
borne by the swift sea-salmon, now dazzled by the golden scales of the carp, now passing over
miles of flat-fish, now hailed by monster conger-eels, now swimming down files of leering hippocampuses,
now received by congregations of staid aldermanic lobsters. The torpedo telegraphed my coming
to the tribes before, and at last I reached my abode, on the line of the equator, in mid-Atlantic.

"The magnitude and beauty of my court no mind can realize. A truncated cone of granitic rock,
whose base extended to the profoundest depths of the sea--even to the region of perpetual fire--formed
with its upper plane a circular lagoon at the surface of the ocean. Geysers or volcanoes of
fresh water gurgled up through the centre of this palace, and vast submarine groves, intermixed
with meadows, extended for leagues along its sides. My household consisted entirely of silver
and golden carp, but my guards were of the loyal and gentle, yet courageous and powerful xiphias
(sword-fish). These barred the unlicensed ingress of my subjects, and if the adventurous foot
of man should profane my lagoon, I could close its inlet and cover it with floods. The dim
aisles of the waters were full of wonderful lights: combinations of colors, unknown above,
were here developed in gigantic fuci, around whose boles the scarlet tangle climbed, and parasites
of purple and emerald played upon their rinds. Some of these forests pointed upward toward
the sun; some grew downward, deriving light and heat from the incandescent gulfs. My state
apartments were built of coral, in wondrous architecture, and trumpet-weed clothed their battlements.
Some cavernous recesses were lit with constellations of shining zoophytes, and there were floors
of pearl, studded with diamonds. I could stroll through marvellous arch-ways, gathering jewels
at every step, or wander in my royal meadows, among the wrecks and spoils of hurricanes; or
rising through the mellow depths, sit among the palms of the lagoon, watching the white sails
of ships or studying the awfulness of the storm.

"For a time I secluded myself, theorizing upon the policy of my government. My dominions were
vast and venerable; they comprehended two thirds of the surface of the globe; no deluges had
destroyed them, and they had been peopled ages before the coming of man. Life here inhabited
forms, vegetable and animal, to which the greatest terrestrials were puny. But the darkness
which of old rested on the face of the deep, now shadowed its depths. There was no mind here.
These gigantic beings were shapes without souls. How should I reason with creatures who could
not feel, whose heads could not know till to-morrow that their members had been severed to-day--some
of whom, in a single moment, passed their whole existences, and fulfilled all the functions
of eating, drinking, and generating--who were not only incapable of thoughts, affections, and
emotions, but who could not see, smell, hear, taste, or touch? But such subjects are among
the afflictions of all wise rulers, and I resolved to conclude upon nothing till I had visited
every part of my dominions.

"During three years of travel I classified the fishes anew, all previous enumeration being
paltry, and made the notes and queries which form the staple of my manuscript. I found fresh-water
creatures to which the sheat-fish would be a morsel, and hydras to which the fabled sea-serpent
would be a worm. I ascended the rivers with the salmon, and fathomed the motives of the climbing-perch.
I heard the narrative of a siluris tossed out of a volcano, and talked with a haddock which
produced at a birth more young than there are men upon the globe. I have noted the harlequin-angler,
which lived three weeks in Amsterdam, hopping about on his fins like a toad; the sucking-fish
which adhered to Marc Antony's galley and held it fast; the horned-fish (fil en dos) which
the savages discard from their nets in terror and prayer; and the sprats which rise with vapors
into the clouds, and are rained back into the sea. I have collected the traditions of many
of these beings, and have translated some of their ballads. There is music under the ocean;
but most of the fishes sing with their fins, beating the water to rude measures. Among the
traditions of all the tribes is that of a time when the waters were peaceful and the fishes
happy, when none were rapacious, when death was unknown, when no storms lashed the ripples
into billows, and when beings of the upper air bathed at the surface, and the fishes rendered
them homage. But some foul deed of which the finny folk were guiltless brought confusion into
the waters; the ocean covered all the globe, corpses sank into the depths and were devoured,
nets were let down from above, strange fires were kindled beneath, and whirlpools, water-spouts,
storms, and volcanoes began.

"I devoted a fourth year to perfecting my system of organic communication, and made some advance
toward developing life in inorganic matter. From this latter attainment it would be but a step
to perpetuate life, and I should thus restore immortality to man. But the shark family having
threatened to revolt, I left off my investigations for some months, and organized a military
force, with which I massacred the malcontents till my subjects swam in blood. Returning victoriously
at the head of my legions, a sad incident occurred. A ship was crossing our line of march,
and I had an unaccountable curiosity to hear something of terrestrial affairs. Five sawfish,
at my bidding, staved in the ship's bottom, and she sank almost instantly. The corpses of the
drowned drifted slowly down, and as I passed among them, turning up the faces, I recognized
in one the features of my mother!

"After a season of remorse I continued my investigations, but a novel and unexpected discovery
deranged my plans, and wrought a change in my destiny.

"The subtlest forms of matter, as commonly known, are the imponderables--light, heat, magnetism,
and electricity. I had concluded that these were manifestations of some still subtler form,
and that this was life, beyond which lay the ethereal elements (called principles) of mind
and soul--soul being ultimate and eternal. To demonstrate this I resolved to descend as far
as possible into the depths of the sea, and examine the beings which dwelt in the remotest
darkness. The conical shape of my island allowed me to descend within its shelving interior,
and yet sustain no great atmospheric pressure. I selected a sturgeon, whose body was so powerfully
plated that he could not be crushed, and his long-pointed shape gave him great facility for
penetrating dense waters. I attached a phosphorescent light to his caudal, that I might not
lose him in the gloom, and he preceded me along the sloping interior. We passed the foundations
of my court, bade adieu to the deep-swimming hydras, left the profoundest polypi behind, and
came at length to uninhabited regions, three thousand fathoms below the surface. My pioneer
here suffered great inconvenience, and only by the most vigorous efforts was able to progress
at all. The blackness was literally tangible, and our lantern, at most, only 'darkness visible.'
By threat and persuasion I forced him forward, hardly able to make headway myself. He swept
the almost solid element with his powerful tail, depressed his sharp snout, sucked a long breath,
and we darted forward simultaneously. There was a cracking as of bones forced together, and
my cranium seemed to split. We shot out of the density into lighter water, and the momentum
carried us fifty fathoms beyond!

"We had passed out of the limit of solar attraction, and were being drawn toward the centre
of the earth!

"Before, we had been descending; now, we were rising. The fluid grew rarer and warmer as we
proceeded, the darkness more luminous, and at last we became visible to each other, swimming
in a ruby and transparent liquid, unlike any aspect or part of our native domain. The fluid
became so rare finally, that the sturgeon was unable to go farther, kept down by his superior
gravity. Some lights glimmering above us, and some mysterious sounds alarming him, he turned
and fled. I was left alone.

"I reached the surface of this peaceful sea. A scene lay before me more beautiful than any
wonder of the deep. I knew that I was among immortals, and that this was 'Happy Archipelago'!

"The surface was calm. Some purple islets were sprinkled here and there, and creatures marvellously
fair were basking in the roseate waters. They looked like angels half way out of heaven. Their
faces were of a silvery hue; their hairs shone on the stream like tremulous beams of light;
their eyes were of a tender azure, and their bosoms rose and fell as if they were all dreaming
of blessedness. Some strains of ravishing harmony that were floating among the islands ceased
when I appeared, and I thought I heard the snapping of a lute-string. All the spirits started
at once. They were crescent-shaped, and stood upon their nether tips. A star upon their foreheads
shone like a pure diamond. They saw me and vanished!

"All but one! She was the fairest of the spirits, and looked, thus frightened, like the pale
new moon. The violet veins faded from her lids, and her blue eyes were full of wonder. I felt
as if, for the first time, a sinless being had looked upon me, and my heart grew so black and
heavy that I sank a little way. I feared to breathe, for she might vanish. I wished to lie
forever with her face shining upon me. What were science, and dominion, and the secret of man's
immortality to one pure glance like hers? In the agony of my soul I spoke: 'Spirit! Immortal!
Woman! O stay! Speak to me!'

"'Who are you? Whence do you come? You are not of us, nor of our element.'

"The voice was like a disembodied sound, coming from nothing, floating in space eternally.

"'I am a creature of a cursed race--ruler of a blighted domain--a realm filled with violence:
it lies beneath you.'

"The pale face grew tender; the star on the forehead grew dim, like a tearful eye. She pitied me.

"'There are beings above us,' she said, 'winged beings, that talk with us sometimes; but nothing
below. Are they sorrowful as you are? Are their brows all heavy with sadness like yours? Why
are they unhappy?'

"I wept and moaned.

"'They have not your pure eyes; they cannot hear your voice. They have sinned.'

"She glided toward me. I felt my gray hairs dropping one by one; my heavy heart grew light;
my groans softened to sighs.

"A shape came suddenly between us.

"I knew the long green locks, and the glossy neck. It was Tethys who spoke. 'Man,' she said,
'you were made one of us, not one of these. Go back to your domain, for you are mortal. Resume
dominion over the fish, or, striving to win more, lose all!'

"I turned my face seaward bitterly. I looked back once; the blue eyes were gleaming--oh, so
tenderly!--and I could not go. I muttered an execration at my bitter fate. Straightway the
sky rocked, the sea rose, the pale star vanished. I had spoken a wicked word.

"I was consigned to Euripius, the divinity of whirlpools. In vain I struggled in his watery
arms; the swift current bore me circling away, and finally whirled me with frightful velocity.
My feet were shaken asunder, my integument softened, my brain reeled. I was passed from eddy
to eddy; I became drunken with emotion; I suffered all the tortures of the lost. A waterspout
lifted me from the clutch of the sea, and deposited me upon the dry land, close to the home
of my infancy.

"I have passed the weary hours of my penance in arranging the memoirs which follow. Science
has again wooed me with her allurements; the stars continue their correspondence. I have not
despaired of the great secret of immortality; and though these hairs are few and white, I shall
be rejuvenated in the tranquil depths of the water, and reassert for ages my rightful dominion
over the fish!"

I was in doubt whether to laugh or wonder when the Ancient Mariner concluded; but I was relieved
from passing judgment upon his article by the unceremonious entrance of a tall, lithe, gray-eyed
person, who wore gold seals and carried a thick walking-stick. The naturalist appeared to be
bent on diving through the floor, and swimming away through the cellar; but he caught the stern,
keen eye of the stranger and cowered. The tall man lifted his cane, and struck the manuscript
out of his Highness's hands; he demolished the microscope at a blow, and flung the geological
hammer out of the window.

"Come along," he said. "No! drop that trash--every article of it, or else you'll be experimenting
again. Come along!"

They went away together, leaving my office littered with broken glass and sea-shells. With
some astonishment I followed through the warehouse to the street; they had entered a carriage
and were driving rapidly away. The next morning's paper explained the whole occurrence in the
following paragraph:

"Much Learning hath made him mad.--Yesterday noon an elderly lunatic, named Robert Jones, committed
suicide by leaping over the parapet of London Bridge. He was in the custody at the time of
Dr. Stretveskit, the celebrated keeper of the Asylum for Monomaniacs. He had been at large
some days, and was traced to several publishing-houses, whither he had gone to contrive the
publication of some insane vagaries. He was finally overhauled at the office of Spry, Stromboli
& Co., and placed in a carriage; but seizing a favorable moment when travel was impeded upon
the bridge, he burst through the glass door and cleared the parapet at a bound. Jones was an
adventurous and dangerous character. Some years ago he set fire to the Shrimpshire Asylum,
where his family had confined him, and went abroad upon a whale-ship; but meeting with an accident,
he underwent the process of trepanning and came home more crazy than before. At one time he
attempted to drown his mother, in furtherance of some strange experiment; but it was thought
at the date of his death that he was recovering his wits. Among his delusions was a strange
one--that he had been made viceroy over all the fishes. His body has not been recovered."

I read the last sentence with a thrill. My late visitor might even now be presiding at some
finny council; and as I should have occasion to cross the sea some day, an untimely shipwreck
might place me in closer relations with him. I determined, therefore, to print the manuscript
which remained in my hands. May it appease his Mightiness, the King of the Fishes!

THE CIRCUIT PREACHER.

    His thin wife's cheek grows pinched and pale with anxiousness intense;
    He sees the brethren's prayerful eyes o'er all the conference;
    He hears the Bishop slowly call the long "Appointment" rolls,
    Where in His vineyard God would place these gatherers of souls.

    Apart, austere, the knot of grim Presiding Elders sit;
    He wonders if some city "Charge" may not for him have writ?
    Certes! could they his sermon hear on Paul and Luke awreck,
    Then had his talent ne'er been hid on Annomessix Neck!

    Poor rugged heart, be still a pause, and you, worn wife, be meek!
    Two years of banishment they read far down the Chesapeake!
    Though Brother Bates, less eloquent, by Wilmington is wooed,
    The Lord that counts the sparrows fall shall feed His little brood.

    "Cheer up! my girl, here Brother Riggs our circuit knows 'twill please.
    He raised three hundred dollars there, besides the marriage fees.
    What! tears from us who preached the word these thirty years or so?
    Two years on barren Chincoteague, and two in Tuckahoe?

    "The schools are good, the brethren say, and our Church holds the wheel;
    The Presbyterians lost their house; the Baptists lost their zeal.
    The parsonage is clean and dry; the town has friendly folk,--
    Not half so dull as Murderkill, nor proud like Pocomoke.

    "Oh! Thy just will, our Lord, be done, though these eight seasons more,
    We see our ague-crippled boys pine on the Eastern Shore,
    While we, Thy stewards, journey out our dedicated years
    Midst foresters of Nanticoke, or heathen of Tangiers!

    "Yea! some must serve on God's frontiers, and I shall fail, perforce,
    To sow upon some better ground my most select discourse;
    At Sassafras, or Smyrna, preach my argument on 'Drink,'
    My series on the Pentateuch, at Appoquinimink.

    "Gray am I, brethren, in the work, though tough to bear my part;
    It is these drooping little ones that sometimes wring my heart,
    And cheat me with the vain conceit the cleverness is mine
    To fill the churches of the Elk, and pass the Brandywine.

    "These hairs were brown, when, full of hope, ent'ring these holy lists,
    Proud of my Order as a knight--the shouting Methodists--
    I made the pine woods ring with hymns, with prayer the night-winds shook,
    And preached from Assawaman Light far north as Bombay Hook.

    "My nag was gray, my gig was new; fast went the sandy miles;
    The eldest Trustees gave me praise, the fairest sisters smiles;
    Still I recall how Elder Smith of Worten Heights averred.
    My Apostolic Parallels the best he ever heard.

    "All winter long I rode the snows, rejoicing on my way;
    At midnight our revival hymns rolled o'er the sobbing bay;
    Three Sabbath sermons, every week, should tire a man of brass--
    And still our fervent membership must have their extra class!

    "Aggressive with the zeal of youth, in many a warm requite
    I terrified Immersionists, and scourged the Millerite;
    But larger, tenderer charities such vain debates supplant,
    When the dear wife, saved by my zeal, loved the Itinerant.

    "No cooing dove of storms afeard, she shared my life's distress,
    A singing Miriam, alway, in God's poor wilderness;
    The wretched at her footstep smiled, the frivolous were still;
    A bright path marked her pilgrimage, from Blackbird to Snowhill.

    "A new face in the parsonage, at church a double pride!--
    Like the Madonna and her babe they filled the 'Amen-side'--
    Crouched at my feet in the old gig, my boy, so fair and frank,
    Naswongo's darkest marshes cheered, and sluices of Choptank.

    "My cloth drew close; too fruitful love my fruitless life outran;
    The townfolk marvelled, when we moved, at such a caravan!
    I wonder not my lads grew wild, when, bright, without the door
    Spread the ripe, luring, wanton world--and we, within, so poor!

    "For, down the silent cypress aisles came shapes even me to scout,
    Mocking the lean flanks of my mare, my boy's patched roundabout,
    And saying: 'Have these starveling boors, thy congregation, souls,
    That on their dull heads Heaven and thou pour forth such living coals?

    "Then prayer brought hopes, half secular, like seers by Endor's witch:
    Beyond our barren Maryland God's folks were wise and rich;
    Where climbing spires and easy pews showed how the preacher thrived,
    And all old brethren paid their rents, and many young ones wived!

    "I saw the ships Henlopen pass with chaplains fat and sleek;
    From Bishopshead with fancy's sails I crossed the Chesapeake;
    In velvet pulpits of the North said my best sermons o'er--
    And that on Paul to Patmos driven, drew tears in Baltimore.

    "Well! well! my brethren, it is true we should not preach for pelf--
    (I would my sermon on Saint Paul the Bishop heard himself!)
    But this crushed wife--these boys--these hairs! they cut me to the core;
    Is it not hard, year after year, to ride the Eastern Shore?

    "Next year? Yes, yes, I thank you much! Then my reward may fall!
    (That is a downright fair discourse on Patmos and St. Paul!)
    So Brother Riggs, once more my voice shall ring in the old lists,
    Cheer up, sick heart, who would not die among these Methodists?"

THE BIG IDIOT.

"Sister, thy boy is a big idiot--a very big idiot!" said Gerrit Van Swearingen, the Schout
of New Amstel. Then the Schout struck his long official staff on the ground, and went off in
a grand manner to frighten debtors.

The Widow Cloos made no reply, but dropped a couple of tears as she saw her son, Nanking, shrink
away before his uncle's frown and roll his head in deprecation of such language.

"My mother," he whispered, "won't the big wild turkeys fly away with my uncle Gerrit if he
calls me such dreadful names?"

"Nanking," said the widow, kissing the big idiot, "your uncle is a very great man. I don't
know what is greater, unless it is an admiral, or a stadtholder, or maybe a king!"

"Yes," conceded Nanking, "he is a dreadfully great man. He puts drunken Indians in the stocks
and ties mighty smugglers up to the whipping-pump. But Saint Nicholas will punish him if he
calls me an idiot."

"Ah! Nanking," replied the widow, "nothing can curb your uncle--neither the valiant Captain
Hinoyossa, nor the puissant director of every thing, great Beeckman, nor hardly Pietrus Stuyvesant
himself."

"I know who can frighten him," exclaimed the big idiot. "Santa Claus! He's bigger than a schout.
Mother, his whip-lash can reach clear over New Amstel--isn't it so? How many deers and ponies
does he drive? Will he bring me any thing this year?"

"My poor son!" said the poor mother, "we are so far from Holland and so very humble here, that
Saint Nicholas may forget us this year; but God will watch over us!"

Nanking could hardly comprehend this astonishing statement: that Saint Nicholas could ever
forget little boys anywhere. So he went out by the river to think about it. There were three
or four Swedish boys out there rolling marbles and playing at jack-stones. They did not like
to play with Dutch boys, but Nanking was only a big idiot, and they did not harbor malice against
him.

"He! Zoo!" they cried; "wilt thou play?"

"Yes, directly. But tell me, Peter Stalcop, and you, Paul Mink, do the very poorest little
boys in Sweden get nothing on Christmas?"

"Ah, Zon der tuijfel! without doubt," cried the boys. "Old Knecht Clobes, your Santa Claus,
is a bad man. That is why he gave the Dutch our country here. And in Sweden, too, he turns
people to wolves, and brothers and sisters tear each other to pieces."

"But not in Holland," exclaimed Nanking. "There he gives the strong boys skates and the weak
boys Canary wine. He brought, one time, long ago, three murdered boys to life, so that they
could eat goose for Christmas dinner. And three poor maidens, whose lovers would not take them
because they had no marriage portions, found gold on the window-sill to get them husbands."

"Foei! Fus! You're lied to, Nanking! There is no good Christmas in this land."

Nanking said they were very wicked to doubt true and good things. He believed every thing,
and particularly every thing pleasant. His mother, whose house was on the river bank, looked
out with a fond sadness as she heard him playing, his heart amongst the little boys, although
he was so big.

"Ach! helas!" she said to herself, "what will become of my dear man-lamb? He is simple and
fatherless, poor and confiding. Thank God, at least he is not a woman!"

The Widow Cloos had come but recently from Holland, sent out by charity at the instance of
her brother, Van Swearingen, the schout or bailiff of New Amstel colony. Her son, who was almost
a man in years, had been kept in the Orphan House at Amsterdam until his growth made him a
misplaced object there, and his feeble intellect forbade that he should become a soldier, and
die, like his father, in the Dutch battles. So the Widow Cloos brought Nanking out in the ship
Mill, to the city of Amsterdam's own colony on the banks of the South River, which the English
called the Delaware. They came in a starving time, when the crops were drenched out by rains
and all the people and the soldiery of the fort were down with bilious and scarlet fever. The
widow was just getting over a long attack of this illness, and her brother, the schout, regarded
the innocent Nanking as the cause of her poverty.

"Thou hadst better drown him," said the hard official; "he'll eat all thy substance or give
the remainder away, for he believes every thing and everybody."

"O brother!" pleaded the widow, "if he did not believe something, how sad would he be! All
the children love him, and he is company for them."

It was an odd sight to see Nanking down with the boys, as big as the father of any of them,
playing as gently as the littlest. He rode them pig-a-back on his broad shoulders; they liked
to see him light his pipe and smoke without getting sick. He worked for his mother, carrying
water and catching fish, and was the only person in New Amstel (or Newcastle) who could go
out into the woods fearlessly among the Minquas Indians; for the Indians all believed that
feeble-minded people were the Great Spirit's especial friends, and saw beyond the boundaries
of this world into that better heaven where shad ran all the year in the celestial rivers,
and the oysters walked upon the land to be eaten. Nanking believed all this, too. It was his
confiding nature which made him useless for worldly business. Hobgoblins and genii, charms
and saints, and whatever he had heard in earnest, he held in earnest to be true.

"Dear me!" thought Nanking, when he was done playing marbles, "can't I be of use to somebody?
Perhaps if I could do something useful my uncle would not think me a big idiot. Then, besides,
little Elsje Alrichs might let me be her sweetheart and carry her doll!"

Elsje was the daughter of Peter Alrichs, the late great director's son, whose father slept
in the graveyard of the little log church on Sand Hook, beside Dominie Welius, the holy psalm-tune
leader. Nanking believed that when the weathercock on the church tingled in the wind, it was
Dominie Welius in the grave striking his tuning-fork to catch the key-note. Peter Alrichs inherited
the well-cleared farm of his papa, and had the best estate in all New Amstel except Gerrit
Van Swearingen, who was accused of getting rich by smuggling, peculating, and slave-catching.
Little Elsje liked Nanking, but her father too, said he was a big idiot. So Nanking had a hard
time.

"Elsje," cried Nanking one day, "don't tell anybody if I give you a secret."

"No, big sweetheart!"

"I'm going to catch a stork!"

"We don't have storks in New Netherlands, Nanking."

"That's just where I'm going to be smart," exclaimed Nanking. "Because there are no storks
here I'm going to catch one. Then uncle Gerrit cannot call me a big idiot."

Elsje gave Nanking her doll to hold. He sat there as big as a soldier, and handled the doll
tenderly; for he believed it to be alive as much as she did, and she was a little girl.

"In Holland," said Nanking, "there is a stork on every happy chimney. The farmers put a wagon-wheel
on the chimney-top, and along comes your stork and his family, and they build a nest on the
wagon-wheel. There it is, Elsje, all twigs and grass, warm as pie, heated by the chimney-fire,
and such a squawking you never heard. It keeps the devil away! The old stork sits up on one
long straight leg, and with the other foot he hands the worms around to the family. I used
to sit down and watch them by the hour in that other Amstel where ours gets its name."

"By the great city of Amsterdam?" asked Elsje.

"That's it. In Amstel, the suburb of Amsterdam, where you can see such beautiful ships from
all parts of the world. If I get a stork for our chimney may I hold your doll another day?"

"Yes, Nanking, and I'll give you a kiss."

Nanking told his mother next day that he was going to the woods, and not to cry if he did not
return at dark. The Widow Cloos kissed him, and saw him go happily up the street.

"Om licht en donker!" she moaned. "Between the hawk and the buzzard! Poor, simple son! The
Indians may kill him, but here he will only get his uncle's curse!"

Nanking walked out through the little settlement of log and brick, and past the court-house,
where the stocks and whipping-post were always standing. He saw his uncle Van Swearingen's
smart dwelling, with its end to the street and notched gables, and many panes in its glazed
windows, and two front doors, and large iron figures in front, telling the date his uncle built
it. A little way off was the fine residence of Peter Alrichs, with a balcony on the roof where
the family sat of evenings, smoking their pipes and seeing starlight come out on the river
and the flag drop at sunset from Fort Casimir; or hearing the roll of drums as they changed
the guard or fired a gun to overhaul a vessel.

"If I get a stork and bring it back," thought Nanking, "won't I astonish this town? It'll be
proclaimed, I expect, in a public manner, that Nanking Cloos is no longer the big idiot."

The woods closed round New Amstel not very far from the houses, and only an Indian path led
on through the strong timber or marshy copse. Nanking was unarmed and not afraid. He walked
until long after sun-up, and waded the headwater swamps of Christine Kill, until he saw before
him the hills of Chisopecke rise blue and wooded, and there he knew the Minquas kept their
fort. But the Minquas had no storks. He turned the first and second of these hills and then
crossed the range and descended to the rain-washed country on the other side, where, amid the
low sparse pines on the lonely barrens, he could walk more readily, guided south-westward by
the proceeding sun. The fierce Susquehannocks dwelt beyond the next high range, and Nanking
had heard from other Indians that they only had some storks. Fierce Indians they were, but
all Indians had been good to Nanking; so he advanced right merrily, and at the crossing of
the second river snaked a fish out of the water with his line and made a fire with his flint
and punk-wood to cook it. When he had finished his meal he looked up and was surrounded by Indians.

They were fierce, grave Indians, armed with spears and bows. Although they looked angry, Nanking
wiped his mouth on his ragged sleeve and saluted them all kindly--shaking hands. He perceived
that they formed around him closely, in front and rear, but he was not suspicious on this account.
The Indians marched him over a long range of very high hills and stopped at a place where,
through the timber, could be seen a noble bay.

"It is Chisopecke Bay," cried Nanking gladly, "and there, they say, are storks and plentiful
geese. I suppose, when we come to a proper place, these Indians will ask me what I want."

The Indians turned down from the bay-view, backward, by another trail, and entered a very rocky
glen, where rocks as big as the houses of New Amstel were strewn all over the country-side.
Following downward, by a dangerous way like stair-steps, they entered at length a small shady
amphitheatre, where a waterfall plunged down a gorge and foamed and thundered. Nanking fairly
danced with delight.

"Oh!" he exclaimed, "I have seen paintings of cascades in Holland, but nothing like this. My
mother and Elsje must come here."

The Indians, now present in great numbers, looked at Nanking dancing and laughing with the
greatest wonder, but still they were far from affable. After a while they began to sit around
in a large circle and sing a doleful sort of tune. Then two Indians produced a long piece of
grapevine and tied one end of it to a tree and the other end around Nanking's wrists, which
were fastened together behind his back. A fire had already been lighted at the foot of the
tree, and the coals were now strewn over the ground.

"Hond mold! Keep courage!" thought Nanking. "It is only some kind of play or game. How can
I get a stork from them unless I play with them?"

But the Indians still sung their doleful tune and did not laugh a bit. The month was December,
and the fire, at first grateful, grew unreasonably warm. At last Nanking trod on a hot coal,
which burnt his old shoe through, and raised a blister on his heel.

"Such a game as this I never learned in Amsterdam or New Amstel," thought Nanking, laughing
good-naturedly; "I guess I will cut it short by riding one of their boys pig-a-back."

So he picked out a young Indian with his roving eye, one perhaps sixteen years old, and, darting
upon him, lifted the Indian boy up in powerful arms and carried him around the fiery circle.
The young brave struggled in vain. Nanking clinched his big fingers around the Indian and dandled
him like a baby. The effect upon the Indians in the circle was exciting; they seized their
spears, stopped their singing, and rushed upon their guest with apparent or assumed fury.

"Ha! herfe!" cried Nanking, "I have changed the monotony of this game, anyhow!"

