Will had a worker whose unhappy lot it was to dig up stumps, apply the pick to the adobe parts
of the soil, and generally to toil in the sweat of his brow. As a team they made some progress,
and I began to have some hope of enjoying what I had always been led to believe was the treat
of one's life--making a garden. I felt entirely care-free--the lady gardener was the boss and
there was only room for one--directions were a drug on the market. This state of affairs was
short-lived. Will failed to appear the third day out, and the lady gardener's pumping system
for her nurseries blew up or leaked or lay down on the job in some way, so that the worker
and I confronted each other, ignorant and unbossed. I will not dwell on the week that followed.
The lady gardener gave almost vicious orders by telephone and the worker did his best, but
it is not a handy way to direct a garden. When the last rosebush is in, including some that
Will is gloomily certain will never grow, I think I shall go away for a rest to some place
where there is only cactus and sage and sand.

J---- arrived on the scene in time to save the day, and the garden is very lovely. Next year
it will be worth going a long way to see, for in this part of the world planting things is
like playing with Japanese water flowers. A wall of gray stucco gently curves along the canyon
side, while a high lattice on the other shows dim outlines of the hills beyond. In the wall
are arches with gates so curved as to leave circular openings, through which we get glimpses
of the sea. It makes me think of King Arthur's castle at Tintagel. In the lattice there is
a wicket gate. There is something very alluring about a wicket gate--it connotes a Robin. Unfortunately,
my Robin can only appear from Friday to Monday, but I'm not complaining. Any one is fortunate
who can count on romance two days out of seven. At the far end of the garden is a screen designed
to hide the peculiarites of the garage. The central panel is concrete with a window with green
balusters; below is a wall fountain. The window suggests a half-hidden señorita. It really
conceals a high-school boy who is driving the motor for me in J----'s absence, but that is
immaterial. The fountain is set with sapphire-blue tiles and the water trickles from the mouth
of the most amiable lion I ever saw. He was carved from Boisè stone by one "Luigi" from a sketch
by our architect friend. He has Albrecht Dürer curls--the lion I mean--four on a side that
look like sticks of peppermint candy and we call him "Boysey."

The pool below him is a wonderful place for boat sailing. It fairly bristles with the masts
of schooners and yachts, and the guns of torpedo destroyers, and while the architect and the
grown-ups did not have a naval base in mind when the sketch was made, I do appreciate the feelings
of my sons.

    "There's a fountain in our garden,
     With the brightest bluest tiles
     And the pleasantest stone lion
     Who spits into it and smiles!
     It's shaded by papyrus
     And reeds and grasses tall,
     Just a little land-locked harbor
     Beside the garden wall.

    "They talked of water-lilies
     And lotus pink and white--
     We didn't dare to say a word
     But we wished with all our might,
     For how could we manoeuvre
     The submarine we've got,
     If they go and clutter up the place
     With all that sort of rot.

    "But mother said she thought perhaps
     We'd wait another year,
     'It's such a lovely place to play,
     We ought to keep it clear.'
     So there's nothing but a goldfish
     Who has to be a Hun,
     I don't suppose he likes it,
     But gee, it's lots of fun!"

Some day we are going to have a sun dial. J---- thought of a wonderful motto in the best Latin,
and now he can't remember it, which is harrowing, because it would be so stylish to have a
perfectly original one. It was something about not wanting to miss the shady hours for the
sake of having all sunny ones. At any rate, we are resolved not to have "I count none but sunny
hours."

There are all kinds of responsibilities in life, and picking the right shade of paint for a
house you have to live in is a most wearing one. Painting the trimming of ours in connection
with the garden was very agitating. I had sample bits of board painted and took them about
town, trying them next to houses I liked, and at last decided on a wicked Spanish green that
the storms of winter are expected to mellow. As I saw it being put on the house I felt panic-stricken.
For a nice fresh vegetable or salad, yes, but for a house--never! And yet it is a great success!
I don't know whether it has "sunk in," as the painter consoled me by predicting, or whether
it is that we are used to it; at any rate, every one likes it so much that I have cheerfully
removed smears of it from the clothing of all the family, including the puppies' tails.

As to ourselves in the rôle of gardeners--there were not two greener greenhorns when we first
resolved to stay in California; we still are, though I think I do J---- an injustice in classing
him with me. We can make geraniums grow luxuriantly, but we don't want to. I wish they would
pass a law in Southern California making the growing of red geraniums a criminal offense. So
many people love to combine them with bougainvillia and other brilliant pink or purple flowers,
and the light is hard enough on eyes without adding that horror. We are resolved to progress
from the geranium age to the hardy perennial class, and are industriously studying books and
magazines with that end in view. The worst of garden literature is that it is nearly all written
for an Eastern climate. Once I subscribed for a garden magazine, lured by a bargain three months'
offer. Never again! At the end of the time, when no regular subscription came in from me, letters
began to arrive. Finally one saying, "You probably think this is another letter urging you
to subscribe. It is not; it is only to beg that you will confidentially tell us why you do
not." I told him that all our conditions here are so different from those in the East. People
want Italian and Spanish gardens, and there is the most marvellous choice of flowers, shrubs,
and vines with which to get them, but we want to be told how, and added to this, it is heart-breaking
to love a fountain nymph in the advertisements and to find that her travelling expenses would
bankrupt you.

One marvellous opportunity we have--the San Diego Exposition, whose gardens are more lovely
than ever, though soldiers and sailors are feeding the pigeons in the Plaza de Panama instead
of tourists. The real intention of that exposition was to show people in this part of the world
what they could do with the great variety of plants and shrubs that thrive here.

I used to wonder why so little has been written about gardeners when there are shelves and
shelves of volumes on gardens. There are no famous gardeners in literature that occur to me
at the moment except Tagore's, and the three terrified ones in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,
who were hurriedly painting the white roses red. I should love to read the diary of the one
who trimmed the borders while Boccaccio's gay company were occupying that garden; or to hear
what the head gardener of the d'Este's could tell us, but I know now why it is so. With the
best of intentions I haven't been able to avoid the pitfall myself.

THORNS

There may be a more smiling hill-top than "La Collina Ridente" somewhere on the Southern California
edge of the Pacific Ocean, but deep down in my heart I don't believe that there is. It is just
the right size hill-top--except when I first began to drive the motor, and then it seemed a
trifle small for turning around. It's just high enough above the coast highway and the town
to give us seclusion, and it's just far enough from the waves to be peaceful. It used to be
called "Suma Paz"--perfect peace--but we changed the name, that being so unpleasantly suggestive
of angels, and, anyway, there isn't such a thing. If "The Smiling Hill-Top" were everything
it seems on a blue and green day like to-day, for instance, it would be a menace to my character.
I should never leave, I should exist beautifully, leading the life of a cauliflower or bit
of seaweed floating in one of the pools in the rocks, or to be even more tropically poetic,
a lovely lotus flower! I should not bother about the children's education or grieve over J----'s
bachelor state of undarned socks and promiscuous meals, or the various responsibilities I left
behind in town, so it is fortunate that there are thorns. Every garden, from Eden down, has
produced them.

I haven't catalogued mine, I have just put them down "higgledy-piggledy," as we used to say
when we were children. J----'s having to work in town, too far to come home except for an occasional
week-end, the neighbors' dogs, servants, Bermuda grass, tenants, ants, the eccentricities of
an adobe road during the rains, and the lapses of the delivery system of the village. Of course
they are of varying degrees of unpleasantness. J----'s absence is horrid but the common lot,
so I have accepted it and am learning "to possess, in loneliness, the joy of all the earth."
Truth compels me to add that it isn't always loneliness, either, as, for example, one week-end
that was much cheered by a visit from our architect friend, who rode down from Santa Barbara
in his motor, and made himself very popular with every member of the household. He brought
home the laundry, bearded the ice man in his lair, making ice-cream possible for Sunday dinner,
mended the garden lattice, and drew entrancing pictures of galleons sailing in from fairy shores
with all their canvas spread, for the boys. As we waved our handkerchiefs to him from the Good-by
Gate on Monday, Joedy turned to me:

"I wish he didn't have to go!" A little pause.

"Muvs, if you weren't married to Father, how would you like--" but here I interrupted by calling
his attention to a rabbit in the canyon.

One thing I do not consider a part of the joy of all the earth--the neighbors' dogs. On the
next hill-top is an Airedale with a voice like a fog-horn. He is an ungainly creature and thoroughly
disillusioned, because his family keep him locked up in a wire-screened tennis-court, where
he barks all day and nearly all night. He can watch the motors on the coast road from one corner
of his cage, and that seems to drive him almost wild. He ought to realize how much better off
he is than the Lady of Shalott, who only dared to watch the highway to Camelot in a mirror!
Sometimes he has a bad attack of lamentation in the night--he is quite Jeremiah's peer at that--and
then we all call his house on the telephone. You can see the lights flash on in the various
cottages and hear the tinkle of the bell, as we each in turn voice our indignation. Once I
even saw a white-robed figure in the road across the canyon, and heard a voice borne on the
night wind, "For heaven's sake, shut that dog up." We all bore it with Christian resignation
when his family decided to take a motor camping trip, Prince to be included in the party. He
is probably even now waking the echoes on Lake Tahoe, or barking himself hoarse at the Bridal
Veil Falls in the Yosemite, but thank goodness we can't hear him quite as far away as that.

I dare say that he might be a perfectly nice, desirable dog if he had had any early training.
Our own "pufflers," as the boys call "Rags" and "Tags," their twin silver-haired Yorkshire
terriers, could tell him what a restraining influence the force of early training has on them,
even on moonlight nights.

Prince is the worst affliction we have had, but not the only one. The people on the mountain-slope
above us acquired a yellowish collie-like dog to scare away coyotes. He ought to have been
a success at it, though I don't know just what it takes to scare a coyote. At any rate, he
used to bark long and grievously about dawn in the road across the canyon. One morning I was
almost frantic with the irregularity of his outbursts. It was like waiting for the other shoe
to drop. Suddenly a rifle shot rang out; a spurt of yellow dust, a streak of yellow dog, and
silence! I rushed to J----'s room, to find him with the weapon, still smoking, in his hands.
I begged him not to start a neighborhood feud, even if we never slept after dawn. I even wept.
He laughed at me. "I didn't shoot at him," he said. "I shot a foot behind him, and I've given
him a rare fright!" He had, indeed. The terror of the coyotes never came near us again.

As to servants, the subject is so rich that I can only choose. Unfortunately, the glory of
the view does not make up to them for the lack of town bustle and nightly "movies," so it isn't
always easy to make comfortable summer arrangements. As you start so you go on, for changing
horses in mid-stream has ever been a parlous business. A temperamental high-school boy who
came to drive the motor and water the garden, though he appeared barefooted to drive me to
town, and took French leave for a day's fishing, pinning a note to the kitchen door, saying,
"Expect me when you see me and don't wait dinner," afflicted me one entire summer. I tried
to rouse his ambition by pointing out the capitalists who began by digging ditches--California
is full of them--and assuring him that there were no heights to which he might not rise by
patient application, etc. It was no use. He watered the garden when I watched him; otherwise
not. I came to the final conclusion that he was in love. Love is responsible for so much.

Another summer I decided to try darkies and carefully selected two of contrasting shades of
brown. The cook was a slim little quadroon, with flashing white teeth and hair arranged in
curious small doughnuts all over her head. She was a grass widow with quite an assortment of
children, though she looked little more than a child herself. "Grandma" was taking care of
them while the worthless husband was supposed to be running an elevator in New Orleans. Essie
had quite lost interest in him, I gathered, for I brought her letters and candy from another
swain, who used such thin paper that I couldn't avoid seeing the salutation, "Oh, you chicken!"

Mandy was quite different. She was a rich seal brown, large and determined, and had left a
husband on his honor, in town. We had hardly washed off the dust of our long motor-ride before
trouble began. A telegram for Mandy conveyed the disquieting news that George had been arrested
on a charge of assault at the request of "grandma." It appeared that after seeing wifey off
for the seashore he felt the joy of bachelor freedom so strongly that he dropped in to see
Essie's mother, who gave him a glass of sub rosa port, which so warmed his heart that he tried
to embrace her. Grandma was only thirty-four and would have been pretty except for gaps in
the front ranks of her teeth. She had spirit as well as spirits, and had him clapped into jail.
Telegrams came in--do you say droves, covies, or flocks? Night letters especially, and long-distance
telephone calls--all collect. The neighbors, the Masons, the lawyer, and various relatives
all went into minute detail. Grandma, being the injured party, prudently confined herself to
the mail. As we have only one servant's room and that directly under my sleeping-porch, it
made it very pleasant! The choicest telegram J---- took down late one night. It was from one
of Mandy's neighbors, and ended with the illuminating statement: "George never had a gun or
a knife on him; he was soused at the time!" Mandy emerged from bed, clad in a red kimono and
a pink boudoir cap, to receive this comforting message. She wept; Essie, who had followed in
order to miss nothing, scowled, while J---- and I wound our bath-robes tightly about us and
gritted our teeth, in an effort to preserve a proper solemnity. Of course we had to let her
go back to the trial, which she did with the dignity of one engaged in affairs of state. She
and the judge had a kind of mother's meeting about George, and decided that a touch of the
law might be just the steadying influence he needed.

The sentence was for three months, which suited me exactly, as I calculated that his release
and our return to town would happily synchronize. Mandy really stood the gaff pretty well and
returned to her job, and an armed neutrality ensued, varied by mild outbreaks. Essie was afraid
of Mandy. She said that she would never stay in the house with her alone; Mandy wouldn't stay
in the house alone after dark, so it became rather complicated. We apparently had to take them
or else find them weeping on the hillside, when we came back from a picnic. In justice to the
darky heart I must say that when Billie was taken very ill they buried the hatchet for the
time, and helped us all to pull him through.

The summer was almost over when I began to suffer from a strange hallucination. I kept seeing
a colored gentleman slipping around corners when I approached. As Mandy was usually near said
corner, I certainly thought of George, but calmed myself with the reflection that he was safe
in jail. Not so. George had experienced a change of heart and had behaved in so exemplary a
manner that his sentence had been shortened two weeks, and what more natural than that he should
join his wife? It wasn't that I was afraid of George; I was afraid for George. I did not want
him to meet Essie, for if Grandma's smile had cost him so dearly, I hated to think of the effect
of Essie's black eyes and unbroken set of white teeth. I needn't have worried, for George was
apparently "sick of lies and women," and never let go his hold on the apron-string to which
he was in duty bound.

This summer I am unusually fortunate, owing to a moment of clear vision that I had forty-eight
hours before leaving town. I had a Christian Science cook, a real artist if given unlimited
materials, and she didn't mind loneliness, as she said that God is everywhere; to which I heartily
agreed. I know that He is on this hill-top. So far so good, but her idea of obeying Mr. Hoover's
precepts was not to mention that any staple was out until the last moment. At about six o'clock
she usually came pussy-footing to my door in the tennis shoes she always wore, to tell me that
there wasn't a potato in the house, or any butter. Not so bad in Pasadena, with a man to send
to the store, but very trying on a smiling hill-top, one mile from town, with me the only thing
dimly suggestive of a chauffeur on the place. At 3 A.M. I resolved to bounce her, heavenly
disposition and all. I did, and engaged a cateress for what I should call a comfortable salary,
rather than wages. She can get up a very appetizing meal from sawdust and candle-ends, when
necessary, and that is certainly what is needed nowadays. Also, she has launched a wonderful
counter-offensive against the ants. There was a time when we ate our meals surrounded by a
magic circle like Brunhilde, but ours was not of flames, but of ant powder. Not that they mind
it much. I'm told that they rather dislike camphor, but do you know the present price of that
old friend?

There are singularly few pests or blights in the garden itself. Bermuda or devil grass is one
of our Western specialties, though it may have invaded the East, too, since we left. It is
an unusually husky plant, rooting itself afresh at every joint with new vigor, and quite choking
out the aristocratic blue grass with which we started our lawn. At first you don't notice it
as it sneaks along the ground, some time above and some time below, as it feels disposed, and
then suddenly you see it's cobwebby outlines as plainly as the concealed animals in a newspaper
puzzle. If you begin to pull it out you can't stop. It reminds me of the German system of espionage,
and that adds zest to my weeding. The other day I laboriously uprooted an intricate network
of tentacles, all leading to one big root, which I am sure must have been Wilhelmstrasse itself.
Being able to do so little to help win the war, this is a valuable imaginative outlet to me!

Everything about the place, as well as the lawn, seems to get out of order when we have tenants.
No one likes tenants any more than we like "Central." There is a prejudice against them. They
do the things they ought not to do and leave undone the things they ought to do, and there
is no health in them. I have more often been one than had one, and I hate to think of the language
that was probably used about us, though we meant well.

I am not going to tell all I know about tenants after all. I have changed my mind. I am also
going to draw a veil over the adobe road during the rains, because we really do like to rent
the place to help pay for the children's and the motor's shoes, and it wouldn't be good business.

The village delivery system enrages and entertains me by turns. I was frankly told by the leading
grocery store that they did not expect to deliver to people who had their own motors, and when
I occasionally insist on a few necessities being sent up to my house, they arrive after dark
conveyed by an ancient horse, as the grocery manager is conservative. A horse doesn't get a
puncture or break a vital part often (if he does, you bury him and get another) and it is about
a toss-up between hay and gasoline.

Every now and then I am marooned on my hill, if the motor is "hors de combat," and then I get
my neighbour to let me join her in her morning marketing trip, sometimes with disastrous results.
One day the boys and I sat down to dinner with fine sea-air appetites, to be confronted by
a small, crushed-looking fish. I sent out to ask the cook for more. She said there was no more,
and as no miracle was wrought in our behalf, we filled up the void with mashed potatoes as
best we could. Just as the plates were being removed the telephone rang, and my neighbor's
agitated voice asked if I had her cat's dinner! Light flooded in on my understanding. We had
just eaten her cat's dinner. She went on to say that the fish-man had picked out a little barracuda
(our household fish in California) from his scraps and made her a present of it. I faintly
asked if she thought it was a very old one, visions of ptomaine poisoning rising vividly. Oh,
no, she said, "it wasn't old at all, he had merely stepped on it." My own perfectly good dinner
was at her house. I told her to take off a portion for her cat, and I would send the boys for
the rest. I heaved a sigh of relief--a fresh young fish, even if crushed, would not have fatal
results.

I will pass rapidly on to my last thorn, which isn't on the list because I'm not quite sure
that it is one. It is a small, second-hand, rather vicious little motor, which I have learned
to drive as a war measure. After the first time I ever tried to turn it around, and it flew
at our lovely rose-garlanded lattice fence at one hundred miles an hour, I christened it "the
little fury." I missed the fence by revolving the steering wheel as though I were playing roulette.
I almost went round twice, but J---- rescued me by kicking my foot off the throttle. Since
then I have sufficiently mastered it to drive to town for the laundry and the newspaper. I
am like a child learning to walk by having an orange rolled in front of it. I must know how
far the Allies have driven the Germans, so I set my teeth and start for town in the "little
fury." Every one told me that I'd have to break something before I really got the upper hand.
I have. I bravely drove out to a Japanese truck garden for vegetables and came to grief. One
of the boys tersely expressed it in his diary, "Muvs ran into a Japanese barn and rooked the
bumper!" Now that that is over, I begin to feel a certain sense of independence that is not
unpleasant. It is some time since I have stalled the engine or tried to climb a hill with the
emergency brake set. The boys and the "pufflers" are game and keep me company; we live or die
together.

After all, the loveliest rose in my garden, the Sunburst, lifts its fragrant flower of creamy
orange on a stalk bristling with wicked-looking mahogany spikes. If I'm very careful about
cutting it, I don't prick my fingers and the thorns really add to the effect.

THE GYPSY TRAIL

A friend of mine once wrote an article on motoring in Southern California for one of the smart
Eastern magazines. In it she said that often a motor would be followed by a trailer loaded
with a camp outfit. What was her surprise and amusement to read her own article later, dressed
for company, so to speak. "A trailer goes ahead with the servants and outfit, so that when
the motoring party arrives on the scene all is in readiness for their comfort." Great care
must be taken that the sensibilities of the elect should not be offended by the horrid thought
that ladies and gentlemen actually do make their own camp at times! So the trailer has to go
ahead, and that is just where the lure and magic of Southern California slips through the fingers.

Most of us have a few drops, at least, of gypsy blood in us, and in this land of sunshine and
the open road we all become vagabonds as far as our conventional upbringing will let us. When
you know that it won't rain from May to October, and the country is full of the most lovely
and picturesque spots, how can you help at least picnicking whenever you can?

Trains are becoming as obsolete in our family as the horse. We wish to take a trip: out purrs
the motor; in goes the family lunch-box, a thermos bottle, and a motor-case of indispensables,
and we are off. No fuss about missing the train, no baggage, no tickets, no cinders--just the
open road.

I had heard that every one deteriorated in Southern California, and after the first year I
began earnestly searching my soul for signs of slackening. Perhaps my soul is naturally easy-going,
for somehow I can't feel that the things we let slip matter so greatly.

This much I will admit. There is no deadlier drug habit than fresh air! The first summer on
our Smiling Hill-Top kind ladies used to ask me to tea-parties and card-parties, but I could
never come indoors long enough to be anything but a trial to my partners at bridge, so now
I don't even make believe I'm a polite member of society. Of course, there are people who carry
it further than I do, and can't be quite happy except in their bathing-suits. I'm not as bad
as that. I can still enjoy the sea breezes and the colors and the sound of the waves with my
clothes on. I don't even wear my bathing-suit to market, which is one of the customs of the
place. It is a picturesque little village; half the houses are mere shacks, a kind of compromise
between dwelling and bath-houses, everyone being much too thrifty to pay money to the Casino
when they can drip freely on their own sitting-room floor, without the least damage to the
furnishings. Life for many consists largely of a prolonged bath and bask on the beach, with
dinner at a cafeteria and a cold bite for supper at home or on the rocks. It is surely an easy
life and yet a great deal of earnest effort and strenuous thinking goes on, too, women's clubs,
even an "open forum," and there are many delightful people who live there all the year for
the sake of the perfect climate. Also, there are a few charming houses perched on the cliffs,
most suggestive of Sorrento and Amalfi. An incident J---- is fond of telling gives the combined
interests of the place. He was on his way to the post-office when he met two women in very
scanty jersey bathing-suits with legs bare, wearing, to be sure, law-fulfilling mackintoshes,
but which, being unbuttoned, flapped so in the breeze that they were only a technical covering.
The ladies were in earnest conversation as he passed. J---- heard one say, "I grant all you
say about the charm of his style, but I consider his writing very superficial!"

It is a wonderful life for small boys. My sons are the loveliest shades of brown with cheeks
of red, and in faded khaki and bare legs are as good an example of protective coloring on the
hillside as any zebra in a jungle. Quite naturally they view September and the long stockings
of the city with dislike.

There is a place on the beach by the coast road between Pasadena and San Diego where we always
have lunch on our journeys to and from town. Just after you leave the picturesque ruins of
the Capistrano Mission in its sheltered valley, you come out suddenly on the ocean, and the
road runs by the sand for miles. With a salt breeze blowing in your face you can't resist the
lunch box long. With a stuffed egg in one hand and a sandwich in the other, Joedy, aged eight,
observed on our last trip south, "This is the bright side of living." I agree with him.

One late afternoon a friend of ours was driving alone and offered a lift to two young men who
were swinging along on foot. "Your price?" they asked. "A smile and a song," was the reply.
So in they got, and those last fifty miles were gay. That is the sort of thing which fits so
perfectly into the atmosphere of this land. Perhaps it is the orange blossoms, perhaps it is
that we have extra-sized moons, perhaps it is the old Spanish charm still lingering. All I
know is that it is a land of glamour and romance. J---- said he was going to import a pair
of nightingales. I said that if he did he'd have a lot to answer for.

Places are as different as people. The East, and by that I mean the country east of the Alleghanies
and not Iowa and Kansas, which are sometimes so described out here, has reached years of discretion
and is set in its way. California has temperament, and it is still very young and enthusiastic
and is having a lot of fun "growing up." I love the stone walls, huckleberry pies, and johnny
cakes of Rhode Island, and I love the associations of my childhood and my family tree, but
there is something in the air of this part of the world that enchants me. It is a certain "Why
not?" that leads me into all sorts of delightful experiences. Conventionality does not hold
us as tightly as it does in the East, and a certain tempting feeling of unlimited possibilities
in life makes waking up in the morning a small adventure in itself. It isn't necessary to point
out the dangers of an unlimited "Why not?" cult--they are too obvious. "Why not?" is a question
that one's imagination asks, and imagination is one of the best spurs to action. I will give
an example of what I mean: When war was declared J---- suggested putting contribution boxes
with red crosses on the collars of "Rags" and "Tags," the boys' twin Yorkshire terriers, and
coaxing them to sit up on the back of the motor. I never had begged on a street corner, but
I thought at once, "Why not?" The result was much money for the Red Cross, an increased knowledge
of human nature for me, as well as some delightful new friends. I should never have had the
courage to try it in New York--let us say; I should have been afraid I'd be arrested.

At first to an Easterner the summer landscape seems dry and dusty, but after living here one
grows to love the peculiar soft tones of tan and bisque, with bright shades of ice plant for
color, and by the sea the wonderful blues and greens of the water. No one can do justice to
the glory of that. Sky-blue, sea-blue, the shimmer of peacocks' tails and the calm of that
blue Italian painters use for the robes of their madonnas, ever blend and ever change. Trees
there are few, the graceful silhouette of a eucalyptus against a golden sky, occasional clumps
of live oaks, and on the coast road to San Diego the Torry pines, relics of a bygone age, growing
but one other place in the world, and more picturesque than any tree I ever saw. One swaying
over a canyon is the photographer's joy. It has been posing for hundreds of years and will
still for centuries more, I have no doubt.

Were I trying to write a sort of sugar-coated guide-book, I could make the reader's mouth water,
just as the menu of a Parisian restaurant does. The canyons through which we have wandered,
the hills we have circled, Grossmont--that island in the air--Point Loma, the southern tip
of the United States, now, alas, closed on account of the war (Fort Rosecrans is near its point),
and further north the mountains and orange groves--snow-capped Sierras looming above orchards
of blooming peach-trees!

Even the names add to the fascination, the Cuyamaca Mountains meaning the hills of the brave
one; Sierra Madre, the mother mountains; even Tia Juana is euphonious, if you don't stop to
translate it into the plebeian "Aunt Jane," and no names could be as lovely as the places themselves.
So much beauty rather goes to one's head. For years in the East we had lived in rented houses,
ugly rented houses, always near the station, so that J---- could catch the 7.59 or the 8.17,
on foot. To find ourselves on a smiling hill-top--our own hill-top, with "magic casements opening
on the foam"--seemed like a dream. After three years it still seems too good to be true.

They say that if you spend a year in Southern California you will never be able to leave it.
I don't know. We haven't tried. The only possible reason for going back would be that you aren't
in the stirring heart of things here as you are in New York, and the Times is five days old
when you get it. Your friends--they all come to you if you just wait a little. What amazes
them always is to find that Southern California has the most perfect summer climate in the
world, if you keep near the sea. No rain--many are the umbrellas I have gently extracted from
the reluctant hands of doubting visitors; no heat such as we know it in the East. We have an
out-of-door dining-room, and it is only two or three times in summer that it is warm enough
to have our meals there. In the cities or the "back country" it is different. I have felt heat
in Pasadena that made me feel in the same class with Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, but never
by the sea.

One result of all this fresh air is that we won't even go indoors to be amused. Hence the outdoor
theatre. Why go to a play when it's so lovely outside? But to go to a play out-of-doors in
an enchanting Greek theatre with a real moon rising above it--that's another matter. I shall
never forget "Midsummer Night's Dream" as given by the Theosophical Society at Point Loma.
Strolling through the grounds with the mauve and amber domes of their temples dimly lighted
I found myself murmuring: "In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome decree." In a canyon
by the sea we found a theatre. The setting was perfect and the performance was worthy of it.
Never have I seen that play so beautifully given, so artistically set and delightfully acted,
though the parts were taken by students in the Theosophical School. After the last adorable
little fairy had toddled off--I hope to bed--we heard a youth behind us observe, "These nuts
sure can give a play." We echoed his sentiments.

I should make one exception to my statement that people won't go indoors to be amused. They
go to the "movies"--I think they would risk their lives to see a new film almost as recklessly
as the actors who make them. The most interesting part of the moving-picture business is out-of-doors,
however. You are walking down the street and notice an excitement ahead. Douglas Fairbanks
is doing a little tightrope walking on the telegraph wires. A little farther on a large crowd
indicates further thrills. Presently there is a splash and Charley Chaplin has disappeared
into a fountain with two policemen in pursuit. Once while we were motoring we came to a disused
railway spur, and were surprised to find a large and fussy engine getting up steam while a
crowd blocked the road for some distance. A lady in pink satin was chained to the rails--placed
there by the villain, who was smoking cigarettes in the offing, waiting for his next cue. The
lady in pink satin had made a little dugout for herself under the track, and as the locomotive
thundered up she was to slip underneath--a job that the mines of Golconda would not have tempted
me to try. Moving-picture actors have a very high order of courage. We could not stay for the
denouement, as we had a nervous old lady with us, who firmly declined to witness any such hair-raising
spectacle. I looked in the paper next morning for railway accidents to pink ladies, but could
find nothing, so she probably pulled it off successfully.

Every year new theatres are built. We have seen Ruth St. Denis at the Organ Pavilion of the
San Diego Exposition, and Julius Cæsar with an all-star cast in the hills back of Hollywood,
where the space was unlimited, and Cæsar's triumph included elephants and other beasts, loaned
by the "movies," and Brutus' camp spread over the hillside as it might actually have done long
ago. There is a place in the back country near Escondido, where at the time of the harvest
moon an Indian play with music is given every year. At Easter thousands of people go up Mount
Rubidoux, near Riverside, for the sunrise service. Some celebrated singer usually takes part
and it is very lovely--quite unlike anything else.

So we have come to belong to what the French would call the school of "pleine air." I once
knew an adorable little boy who expressed it better than I can:

    "Sun callin' me, sky callin' me,
     Comin' sun--comin' sky."

AN ADVENTURE IN SOLITUDE

My windows were all wide open one lovely April day, the loveliest time of all the year in Southern
California, filling the house with the sweetness of wistaria and orange blossoms, but also,
truth compels me to add, with so many noises of such excruciating kinds that I followed Ulysses'
well-known plan and then tried to find quiet for my siesta in the back spare-room. The worst
of this house is that it really has no back--it has various fronts, like the war. The spinster
next door but one has a parrot--a cynical, tired parrot, but still fond of the sound of his
own voice. The lady across the street is raising Pekinese puppies, who apparently bitterly
regret being born outside of Pekin. She puts them in baskets on the roof in the sun and lets
them cry it out, in that hard-hearted modern method applied to babies.

A sight-seeing car had paused while the gentleman with the megaphone explained to a few late
tourists the Arroyo Seco, that great river-bed with only a trickle of water at the bottom,
on whose brink our house perches. At home two plumbers were playfully tossing bricks about
our courtyard in a half-hearted endeavor to find out why our cellar was flooded. Hence the
back bedroom. No amount of cotton wool in one's ears, however, could camouflage a telephone bell.

