Without presuming to doubt the veracity of tradition in these matters, an incident from the
writer's boyhood in New England may be instanced. The house of an unpopular gentleman was assailed--not
in the ostentatious manner just described, yet in a way that gave him a good deal of trouble.
Dead cats appeared mysteriously in his neighborhood; weird noises arose under his windows;
he tried to pick up letters from his doorstep that became mere chalk-marks at his touch, so
that he took up only splinters under his nails. One night, as a seance was about beginning
in his yard, he emerged from a clump of bushes, flew in the direction of the disturbance, laid
violent hands on the writer's collar, and bumped his nose on a paving-stone. Then the manifestations
were discontinued, for several nights, for repairs.

STORIED SPRINGS

Like the Greeks, the red men endowed the woods and waters with tutelary sprites, and many of
the springs that are now resorted to as fountains of healing were known long before the settlement
of Europeans here, the gains from drinking of them being ascribed to the beneficence of spirit
guardians. The earliest comers to these shores--or, rather, the earliest of those who entertained
such beliefs--fancied that the fabled fountain of eternal youth would be found among the other
blessings of the land. To the Spaniards Florida was a land of promise and mystery. Somewhere
in its interior was fabled to stand a golden city ruled by a king whose robes sparkled with
precious dust, and this city was named for the adventurer--El Dorado, or the Place of the Gilded
One. Here, they said, would be found the elixir of life. The beautiful Silver Spring, near
the head of the Ocklawaha, with its sandy bottom plainly visible at the depth of eighty feet,
was thought to be the source of the life-giving waters, but, though Ponce de Leon heard of
this, he never succeeded in fighting his way to it through the jungle.

In Georgia, in the reputed land of Chicora, were a sacred stream that made all young again
who bathed there, and a spring so delectable that a band of red men, chancing on it in a journey,
could not leave it, and are there forever.

In the island of "Bimini," one of the Lucayos (Bahamas), was another such a fountain.

Between the Flint and Ocmulgee Rivers the Creeks declared was a spring of life, on an island
in a marsh, defended from approach by almost impenetrable labyrinths,--a heaven where the women
were fairer than any other on earth.

The romantic and superstitious Spaniards believed these legends, and spent years and treasure
in searching for these springs.

The Yuma Apaches had been warned by one of their oracles never to enter a certain canon in
Castle Dome range, Arizona, but a company of them forgot this caution while in chase of deer,
and found themselves between walls of pink and white fluorite with a spring bubbling at the
head of the ravine. Tired and heated, they fell on their faces to drink, when they found that
the crumbling quartz that formed the basin of the spring was filled with golden nuggets. Eagerly
gathering up this precious substance, for they knew what treasure of beads, knives, arrows,
and blankets the Mexicans would exchange for it, they attempted to make their way out of the
canon; but a cloudburst came, and on the swiftly rising tide all were swept away but one, who
survived to tell the story. White men have frequently but vainly tried to find that spring.

In Southwestern Kansas, on a hill a quarter-mile from Solomon River, is the Sacred Water, pooled
in a basin thirty feet across. When many stand about the brink it slowly rises. Here two Panis
stopped on their return from a buffalo hunt, and one of them unwittingly stepped on a turtle
a yard long. Instantly he felt his feet glued to the monster's back, for, try as he might,
he could not disengage himself, and the creature lumbered away to the pool, where it sank with
him. There the turtle god remains, and beads, arrows, ear-rings, and pipes that are dropped
in, it swallows greedily. The Indians use the water to mix their paint with, but never for
drinking.

The mail rider, crossing the hot desert of Arizona, through the cacti and over holes where
scorpions hide, makes for Devil's Well, under El Diablo--a dark pool surrounded with gaunt
rocks. Here, coming when the night is on, he lies down, and the wind swishing in the sage--brush
puts him to sleep. At dawn he wakens with the frightened whinny of his horse in his ears and,
all awake, looks about him. A stranger, wrapped in a tattered blanket, is huddled in a recess
of the stones, arrived there, like himself, at night, perhaps. Poising his rifle on his knee,
the rider challenges him, but never a sign the other makes. Then, striding over to him, he
pulls away the blanket and sees a shrivelled corpse with a face that he knows--his brother.
Hardly is this meeting made when a hail of arrows falls around. His horse is gone. The Apaches,
who know no gentleness and have no mercy, have manned every gap and sheltering rock. With his
rifle he picks them off, as they rise in sight with arrows at the string, and sends them tumbling
into the dust; but, when his last bullet has sped into a red man's heart, they rise in a body
and with knives and hatchets hew him to death. And that is why the Devil's Well still tastes
of blood.

Among the Balsam Mountains of Western North Carolina is a large spring that promises refreshment,
but, directly that the wayfarer bends over the water, a grinning face appears at the bottom
and as he stoops it rises to meet his. So hideous is this demon that few of the mountaineers
have courage to drink here, and they refuse to believe that the apparition is caused by the
shape of the basin, or aberrated reflection of their own faces. They say it is the visage of
a "haunt," for a Cherokee girl, who had uncommon beauty, once lived hard by, and took delight
in luring lovers from less favored maidens. The braves were jealous of each other, and the
women were jealous of her, while she--the flirt!--rejoiced in the trouble that she made. A
day fell for a wedding--that of a hunter with a damsel of his tribe, but at the hour appointed
the man was missing. Mortified and hurt, the bride stole away from the village and began a
search of the wood, and she carried bow and arrows in her hand. Presently she came on the hunter,
lying at the feet of the coquette, who was listening to his words with encouraging smiles.
Without warning the deserted girl drew an arrow to the head and shot her lover through the
heart--then, beside his lifeless body, she begged Manitou to make her rival's face so hideous
that all would be frightened who looked at it. At the words the beautiful creature felt her
face convulse and shrivel, and, rushing to the mirror of the spring, she looked in, only to
start back in loathing. When she realized that the frightful visage that glared up at her was
her own, she uttered a cry of despair and flung herself into the water, where she drowned.

It is her face--so altered as to disclose the evil once hid behind it--that peers up at the
hardy one who passes there and knows it as the Haunted Spring.

The medicinal properties of the mineral springs at Ballston and Saratoga were familiar to the
Indians, and High Rock Spring, to which Sir William Johnson was carried by the Mohawks in 1767
to be cured of a wound, was called "the medicine spring of the Great Spirit," for it was believed
that the leaping and bubbling of the water came from its agitation by hands not human, and
red men regarded it with reverence.

The springs at Manitou, Colorado (see "Division of Two Tribes"), were always approached with
gifts for the manitou that lived in them.

The lithia springs of Londonderry, New Hampshire, used to be visited by Indians from the Merrimack
region, who performed incantations and dances to ingratiate themselves with the healing spirit
that lived in the water. Their stone implements and arrow-heads are often found in adjacent fields.

The curative properties of Milford Springs, New Hampshire, were revealed in the dream of a
dying boy.

A miracle spring flowed in the old days near the statue of the Virgin at White Marsh, Maryland.

Biddeford Pool, Maine, was a miracle pond once a year, for whoso bathed there on the 26th of
June would be restored to health if he were ill, because that day was the joint festival of
Saints Anthelm and Maxentius.

There was a wise and peaceable chief of the Ute tribe who always counselled his people to refrain
from war, but when he grew old the fiery spirits deposed him and went down to the plains to
give battle to the Arapahoe. News came that they had been defeated in consequence of their
rashness. Then the old man's sorrow was so keen that his heart broke. But even in death he
was beneficent, for his spirit entered the earth and forthwith came a gush of water that has
never ceased to flow--the Hot Sulphur Springs of Colorado. The Utes often used to go to those
springs to bathe--and be cured of rheumatism--before they were driven away.

Spring River, Arkansas, is nearly as large at its source as at its mouth, for Mammoth Spring,
in the Ozark Mountains, where it has its rise, has a yield of ninety thousand gallons a minute,
so that it is, perhaps, the largest in the world. Here, three hundred years ago, the Indians
had gathered for a month's feast, for chief Wampahseesah's daughter--Nitilita--was to wed a
brave of many ponies, a hundred of which he had given in earnest of his love. For weeks no
rain had fallen, and, while the revel was at its height, news came that all the rivers had
gone dry. Several young men set off with jars, to fill them at the Mississippi, and, confident
that relief would come, the song and dance went on until the men and women faltered from exhaustion.
At last, Nitilita died, and, in the wildness of his grief, the husband smote his head upon
a rock and perished too. Next day the hunters came with water, but, incensed by their delay,
the chief ordered them to be slain in sacrifice to the manes of the dead. A large grave was
dug and the last solemnities were begun when there was a roaring and a shaking in the earth--it
parted, and the corpses disappeared in the abyss. Then from the pit arose a flood of water
that went foaming down the valley. Crazed with grief, remorse, and fear, Wampahseesah flung
himself into the torrent and was borne to his death. The red men built a dam there later, and
often used to sit before it in the twilight, watching, as they declared, the faces of the dead
peering at them through the foam.

