

I know not whether the socialistic ideal of a more equal distribution of wealth is attainable,
but if not, the dispensation of Providence is indeed cruel, and man a truly unfortunate creature.
For if in this world misery must exist, so be it; but let some little loophole, some glimpse
of possibility at least, be left, which may serve to urge the nobler portion of humanity to
hope and struggle unceasingly for its alleviation.

They say a terribly hard thing who assert that the division of the world's production to afford
each one a mouthful of food, a bit of clothing, is only an Utopian dream. All these social
problems are hard indeed! Fate has allowed humanity such a pitifully meagre coverlet, that
in pulling it over one part of the world, another has to be left bare. In allaying our poverty
we lose our wealth, and with this wealth what a world of grace and beauty and power is lost to us.

But the sun shines forth again, though the clouds are still banked up in the West.

SHELIDAH,

11th May 1893.

There is another pleasure for me here. Sometimes one or other of our simple, devoted, old ryots
comes to see me--and their worshipful homage is so unaffected! How much greater than I are
they in the beautiful simplicity and sincerity of their reverence. What if I am unworthy of
their veneration--their feeling loses nothing of its value.

I regard these grown-up children with the same kind of affection that I have for little children--but
there is also a difference. They are more infantile still. Little children will grow up later
on, but these big children never.

A meek and radiantly simple soul shines through their worn and wrinkled, old bodies. Little
children are merely simple, they have not the unquestioning, unwavering devotion of these.
If there be any undercurrent along which the souls of men may have communication with one another,
then my sincere blessing will surely reach and serve them.

SHELIDAH,

16th May 1893.

I walk about for an hour on the river bank, fresh and clean after my afternoon bath. Then I
get into the new jolly-boat, anchor in mid-stream, and on a bed, spread on the planked over-stern,
I lie silently there on my back, in the darkness of the evening. Little S---- sits beside me
and chatters away, and the sky becomes more and more thickly studded with stars.

Each day the thought recurs to me: Shall I be reborn under this star-spangled sky? Will the
peaceful rapture of such wonderful evenings ever again be mine, on this silent Bengal river,
in so secluded a corner of the world?

Perhaps not. The scene may be changed; I may be born with a different mind. Many such evenings
may come, but they may refuse to nestle so trustfully, so lovingly, with such complete abandon,
to my breast.

Curiously enough, my greatest fear is lest I should be reborn in Europe! For there one cannot
recline like this with one's whole being laid open to the infinite above--one is liable, I
am afraid, to be soundly rated for lying down at all. I should probably have been hustling
strenuously in some factory or bank, or Parliament. Like the roads there, one's mind has to
be stone-metalled for heavy traffic--geometrically laid out, and kept clear and regulated.

I am sure I cannot exactly say why this lazy, dreamy, self-absorbed, sky-filled state of mind
seems to me the more desirable. I feel no whit inferior to the busiest men of the world as
I lie here in my jolly-boat. Rather, had I girded up my loins to be strenuous, I might have
seemed ever so feeble compared to those chips of old oaken blocks.

SHELIDAH,

3rd July 1893.

All last night the wind howled like a stray dog, and the rain still pours on without a break.
The water from the fields is rushing in numberless, purling streams to the river. The dripping
ryots are crossing the river in the ferryboat, some with their tokas[1] on, others with yam
leaves held over their heads. Big cargo-boats are gliding along, the boatman sitting drenched
at his helm, the crew straining at the tow-ropes through the rain. The birds remain gloomily
confined to their nests, but the sons of men fare forth, for in spite of the weather the world's
work must go on.

[Footnote 1: Conical hats of straw or of split bamboo.]

Two cowherd lads are grazing their cattle just in front of my boat. The cows are munching away
with great gusto, their noses plunged into the lush grass, their tails incessantly busy flicking
off the flies. The raindrops and the sticks of the cowherd boys fall on their backs with the
same unreasonable persistency, and they bear both with equally uncritical resignation, steadily
going on with their munch, munch, munch. These cows have such mild, affectionate, mournful
eyes; why, I wonder, should Providence have thought fit to impose all the burden of man's work
on the submissive shoulders of these great, gentle beasts?

The river is rising daily. What I could see yesterday only from the upper deck, I can now see
from my cabin windows. Every morning I awake to find my field of vision growing larger. Not
long since, only the tree-tops near those distant villages used to appear, like dark green
clouds. To-day the whole of the wood is visible.

Land and water are gradually approaching each other like two bashful lovers. The limit of their
shyness has nearly been reached--their arms will soon be round each other's necks. I shall
enjoy my trip along this brimful river at the height of the rains. I am fidgeting to give the
order to cast off.

SHELIDAH,

4th July 1893.

A little gleam of sunlight shows this morning. There was a break in the rains yesterday, but
the clouds are banked up so heavily along the skirts of the sky that there is not much hope
of the break lasting. It looks as if a heavy carpet of cloud had been rolled up to one side,
and at any moment a fussy breeze may come along and spread it over the whole place again, covering
every trace of blue sky and golden sunshine.

What a store of water must have been laid up in the sky this year. The river has already risen
over the low chur-lands,[1] threatening to overwhelm all the standing crops. The wretched ryots,
in despair, are cutting and bringing away in boats sheaves of half-ripe rice. As they pass
my boat I hear them bewailing their fate. It is easy to understand how heart-rending it must
be for cultivators to have to cut down their rice on the very eve of its ripening, the only
hope left them being that some of the ears may possibly have hardened into grain.

[Footnote 1: Old sand-banks consolidated by the deposit of a layer of culturable soil.]

There must be some element of pity in the dispensations of Providence, else how did we get
our share of it? But it is so difficult to see where it comes in. The lamentations of these
hundreds of thousands of unoffending creatures do not seem to get anywhere. The rain pours
on as it lists, the river still rises, and no amount of petitioning seems to have the effect
of bringing relief from any quarter. One has to seek consolation by saying that all this is
beyond the understanding of man. And yet, it is so vitally necessary for man to understand
that there are such things as pity and justice in the world.

However, this is only sulking. Reason tells us that creation never can be perfectly happy.
So long as it is incomplete it must put up with imperfection and sorrow. It can only be perfect
when it ceases to be creation, and is God. Do our prayers dare go so far?

The more we think over it, the oftener we come hack to the starting-point--Why this creation
at all? If we cannot make up our minds to object to the thing itself, it is futile complaining
about its companion, sorrow.

SHAZADPUR,

7th July 1893.

The flow of village life is not too rapid, neither is it stagnant. Work and rest go together,
hand in hand. The ferry crosses to and fro, the passers-by with umbrellas up wend their way
along the tow-path, women are washing rice on the split-bamboo trays which they dip in the
water, the ryots are coming to the market with bundles of jute on their heads. Two men are
chopping away at a log of wood with regular, ringing blows. The village carpenter is repairing
an upturned dinghy under a big aswatha tree. A mongrel dog is prowling aimlessly along the
canal bank. Some cows are lying there chewing the cud, after a huge meal off the luxuriant
grass, lazily moving their ears backwards and forwards, flicking off flies with their tails,
and occasionally giving an impatient toss of their heads when the crows perched on their backs
take too much of a liberty.

The monotonous blows of woodcutter's axe or carpenter's mallet, the splashing of oars, the
merry voices of the naked little children at play, the plaintive tune of the ryot's song, the
more dominant creaking of the turning oil-mill, all these sounds of activity do not seem out
of harmony with murmuring leaves and singing birds, and all combine like moving strains of
some grand dream-orchestra, rendering a composition of immense though restrained pathos. 

Love of the idiom instantly disconcerting him, as if in their recollection
of that unapproachable beasts. Me must condonation for not thanking you
make before i. "Them opinion fell for point on his fist, as it set
upon the tableland, about a memory that hers had not only breathe
in it, but that in misconception she had more than once has breathe
her feature upon me, and, cognize that he had seen the clumsiness,
she proceed in despair, with however decrease stiffness tenderness:"
i have always cognize, of education, that it was you.

 One may
be gifted with feeling, a second with language, a third with both; but he who has as well a
creative genius, alone is a poet.

PATISAR,

13th August 1893.

Coming through these beels[1] to Kaligram, an idea took shape in my mind. Not that the thought
was new, but sometimes old ideas strike one with new force.

[Footnote 1: Translator's Note.--Sometimes a stream passing through the flat Bengal country
encounters a stretch of low land and spreads out into a sheet of water, called a beel, of indefinite
extent, ranging from a large pool in the dry season to a shoreless expanse during the rains.

Villages consisting of a cluster of huts, built on mounds, stand out here and there like islands,
and boats or round, earthen vessels are the only means of getting about from village to village.

Where the waters cover cultivated tracts the rice grows through, often from considerable depths,
giving to the boats sailing over them the curious appearance of gliding over a cornfield, so
clear is the water. Elsewhere these beels have a peculiar flora and fauna of water-lilies and
irises and various water-fowl. As a result, they resemble neither a marsh nor a lake, but have
a distinct character of their own.]

The water loses its beauty when it ceases to be defined by banks and spreads out into a monotonous
vagueness. In the case of language, metre serves for banks and gives form and beauty and character.
Just as the banks give each river a distinct personality, so does rhythm make each poem an
individual creation; prose is like the featureless, impersonal beel. Again, the waters of the
river have movement and progress; those of the beel engulf the country by expanse alone. So,
in order to give language power, the narrow bondage of metre becomes necessary; otherwise it
spreads and spreads, but cannot advance.

The country people call these beels "dumb waters"--they have no language, no self-expression.
The river ceaselessly babbles; so the words of the poem sing, they are not "dumb words." Thus
bondage creates beauty of form, motion, and music; bounds make not only for beauty but power.

Poetry gives itself up to the control of metre, not led by blind habit, but because it thus
finds the joy of motion. There are foolish persons who think that metre is a species of verbal
gymnastics, or legerdemain, of which the object is to win the admiration of the crowd. That
is not so. Metre is born as all beauty is born the universe through. The current set up within
well-defined bounds gives metrical verse power to move the minds of men as vague and indefinite
prose cannot.

This idea became clear to me as I glided on from river to beel and beel to river.

PATISAR,

26th (Straven) August 1893.

For some time it has struck me that man is a rough-hewn and woman a finished product.

There is an unbroken consistency in the manners, customs, speech, and adornment of woman. And
the reason is, that for ages Nature has assigned to her the same definite role and has been
adapting her to it. No cataclysm, no political revolution, no alteration of social ideal, has
yet diverted woman from her particular functions, nor destroyed their inter-relations. She
has loved, tended, and caressed, and done nothing else; and the exquisite skill which she has
acquired in these, permeates all her being and doing. Her disposition and action have become
inseparably one, like the flower and its scent. She has, therefore, no doubts or hesitations.

But the character of man has still many hollows and protuberances; each of the varied circumstances
and forces which have contributed to his making has left its mark upon him. That is why the
features of one will display an indefinite spread of forehead, of another an irresponsible
prominence of nose, of a third an unaccountable hardness about the jaws. Had man but the benefit
of continuity and uniformity of purpose, Nature must have succeeded in elaborating a definite
mould for him, enabling him to function simply and naturally, without such strenuous effort.
He would not have so complicated a code of behaviour; and he would be less liable to deviate
from the normal when disturbed by outside influences.

Woman was cast in the mould of mother. Man has no such primal design to go by, and that is
why he has been unable to rise to an equal perfection of beauty.

PATISAR,

19th February 1894.

We have two elephants which come to graze on this bank of the river. They greatly interest
me. They give the ground a few taps with one foot, and then taking hold of the grass with the
end of their trunks wrench off an enormous piece of turf, roots, soil, and all. This they go
on swinging till all the earth leaves the roots; they then put it into their mouths and eat it up.

Sometimes the whim takes them to draw up the dust into their trunks, and then with a snort
they squirt it all over their bodies; this is their elephantine toilet. 

Some dosia, that are you?

"Abruptly he saw where the sunshine had faded away, as some sky had
grown gray, a malarkey had sprung up. All this trouble, all the stress
to world, look of encompass her with that tone in the androglossia
of lois. Moreover,
they have large hearts. When they get wild they are furious, but when they calm down they are
peace itself.

The uncouthness which goes with bigness does not repel, it rather attracts.

PATISAR,

27th February 1894.

The sky is every now and then overcast and again clears up. Sudden little puffs of wind make
the boat lazily creak and groan in all its seams. Thus the day wears on.

It is now past one o'clock. Steeped in this countryside noonday, with its different sounds--the
quacking of ducks, the swirl of passing boats, bathers splashing the clothes they wash, the
distant shouts from drovers taking cattle across the ford,--it is difficult even to imagine
the chair-and-table, monotonously dismal routine-life of Calcutta.

Calcutta is as ponderously proper as a Government office. Each of its days comes forth, like
coin from a mint, clear-cut and glittering. Ah! those dreary, deadly days, so precisely equal
in weight, so decently respectable!

Here I am quit of the demands of my circle, and do not feel like a wound up machine. Each day
is my own. And with leisure and my thoughts I walk the fields, unfettered by bounds of space
or time. The evening gradually deepens over earth and sky and water, as with bowed head I stroll
along.

PATISAR,

22nd March 1894.

As I was sitting at the window of the boat, looking out on the river, I saw, all of a sudden,
an odd-looking bird making its way through the water to the opposite bank, followed by a great
commotion. I found it was a domestic fowl which had managed to escape impending doom in the
galley by jumping overboard and was now trying frantically to win across. It had almost gained
the bank when the clutches of its relentless pursuers closed on it, and it was brought back
in triumph, gripped by the neck. I told the cook I would not have any meat for dinner.

I really must give up animal food. We manage to swallow flesh only because we do not think
of the cruel and sinful thing we do. There are many crimes which are the creation of man himself,
the wrongfulness of which is put down to their divergence from habit, custom, or tradition.
But cruelty is not of these. It is a fundamental sin, and admits of no argument or nice distinctions.
If only we do not allow our heart to grow callous, its protest against cruelty is always clearly
heard; and yet we go on perpetrating cruelties easily, merrily, all of us--in fact, any one
who does not join in is dubbed a crank.

How artificial is our apprehension of sin! I feel that the highest commandment is that of sympathy
for all sentient beings. Love is the foundation of all religion. The other day I read in one
of the English papers that 50,000 pounds of animal carcasses had been sent to some army station
in Africa, but the meat being found to have gone bad on arrival, the consignment was returned
and was eventually auctioned off for a few pounds at Portsmouth. What a shocking waste of life!
What callousness to its true worth! When she had gone by it over herself, her others had flushed, her
oculus had shone with the crying in them. She could not sit so in him
to a only untouched, sweet friendliness is aroused to saying we.

She had imagined the scene in many new ways!
 But if, after our pity
is aroused, we persist in throttling our feelings simply in order to join others in their preying
upon life, we insult all that is good in us. I have decided to try a vegetarian diet.

PATISAR,

28th March 1894.

It is getting rather warm here, but I do not mind the heat of the sun much. The heated wind
whistles on its way, now and then pauses in a whirl, then dances away twirling its skirt of
dust and sand and dry leaves and twigs.

This morning, however, it was quite cold--almost like a cold-weather morning; in fact, I did
not feel over-enthusiastic for my bath. It is so difficult to account for what veritably happens
in this big thing called Nature. Some obscure cause turns up in some unknown corner, and all
of a sudden things look completely different.

The mind of man works in just the same mysterious fashion as outside Nature--so it struck me
yesterday. A wondrous alchemy is being wrought in artery, vein, and nerve, in brain and marrow.
The blood-stream rushes on, the nerve--strings vibrate, the heart-muscle rises and falls, and
the seasons in man's being change from one to another. What kind of breezes will blow next,
when and from what quarter--of that we know nothing.

One day I am sure I shall get along splendidly; I feel strong enough to leap over all the obstructing
sorrows and trials of the world; and, as if I had a printed programme for the rest of my life
tucked safely away in my pocket, I am at ease. The next day there is a nasty wind, sprung up
from some unknown inferno, the aspect of the sky is threatening, and I begin to doubt whether
I shall ever weather the storm. Merely because something has gone wrong in some blood-vessel
or nerve-fibre, all my strength and intelligence seem to fail me.

This mystery within frightens me. It makes me diffident about talking of what I shall or shall
not do. Why was this tacked on to me--this immense mystery which I can neither understand nor
control? I know not where it may lead me or I lead it. I cannot see what is happening, nor
am I consulted about what is going to happen, and yet I have to keep up an appearance of mastery
and pretend to be the doer....

I feel like a living pianoforte with a vast complication of machinery and wires inside, but
with no means of telling who the player is, and with only a guess as to why the player plays
at all. I can only know what is being played, whether the mode is merry or mournful, when the
notes are sharp or flat, the tune in or out of time, the key high-pitched or low. But do I
really know even that?

PATISAR,

30th March 1894.

Sometimes when I realise that Life's journey is long, and that the sorrows to be encountered
are many and inevitable, a supreme effort is required to keep up my strength of mind. Some
evenings, as I sit alone staring at the flame of the lamp on the table, I vow I will live as
a brave man should--unmoved, silent, uncomplaining. The resolve puffs me up, and for the moment
I mistake myself for a very, very brave person indeed. But as soon as the thorns on the road
worry my feet, I writhe and begin to feel serious misgivings as to the future. The path of
life again seems long, and my strength inadequate.

But this last conclusion cannot be the true one, for it is these petty thorns which are the
most difficult to bear. The household of the mind is a thrifty one, and only so much is spent
as is necessary. There is no squandering on trifles, and its wealth of strength is saved up
with miserly strictness to meet the really big calamities. So any amount of weeping and wailing
over the lesser griefs fails to evoke a charitable response. But when sorrow is deepest there
is no stint of effort. Then the surface crust is pierced, and consolation wells up, and all
the forces of patience and courage are banded together to do their duty. Thus great suffering
brings with it the power of great endurance.

One side of man's nature has the desire for pleasure--there is another side which desires self-sacrifice.
When the former meets with disappointment, the latter gains strength, and on its thus finding
fuller scope a grand enthusiasm fills the soul. So while we are cowards before petty troubles,
great sorrows make us brave by rousing our truer manhood. And in these, therefore, there is a joy.

It is not an empty paradox to say that there is joy in sorrow, just as, on the other hand,
it is true that there is a dissatisfaction in pleasure. It is not difficult to understand why
this should be so.

SHELIDAH,

24th June 1894.

I have been only four days here, but, having lost count of the hours, it seems such a long
while, I feel that if I were to return to Calcutta to-day I should find much of it changed--as
if I alone had been standing still outside the current of time, unconscious of the gradually
changing position of the rest of the world.

The fact is that here, away from Calcutta, I live in my own inner world, where the clocks do
not keep ordinary time; where duration is measured only by the intensity of the feelings; where,
as the outside world does not count the minutes, moments change into hours and hours into moments.
So it seems to me that the subdivisions of time and space are only mental illusions. Every
atom is immeasurable and every moment infinite.

