'There was a lady with whom I was very much thrown in contact since we were children.  Her
father was my father's friend.  My friend too, God knows; for almost with his dying breath
he gave sanction to my marrying his daughter, if it should ever be that she should care for
me in that way.  But he wished me to wait, and, till she was old enough to choose, to leave
her free.  For she is several years younger than I am; and I am not very old yet--except in
heart!  All this, you understand, was said in private to me; none other knew it.  None knew
of it even till this moment when I tell you that such a thing has been.'  He paused; the other
said:

'Believe me that I value your confidence, beyond all words!'  Harold felt already the good
effects of being able to speak of his pent-up trouble. Already this freedom from the nightmare
loneliness of his own thoughts seemed to be freeing his very soul.

'I honestly kept to his wishes.  Before God, I did!  No man who loved a woman, honoured her,
worshipped her, could have been more scrupulously careful as to leaving her free.  What it
was to me to so hold myself no one knows; no one ever will know.  For I loved her, do love
her, with every nerve and fibre of my heart.  All our lives we had been friends; and I believed
we loved and trusted each other.  But . . . but then there came a day when I found by chance
that a great trouble threatened her. Not from anything wrong that she had done; but from something
perhaps foolish, harmlessly foolish except that she did not know . . . '  He stopped suddenly,
fearing he might have said overmuch of Stephen's side of the affair.  'When I came to her aid,
however, meaning the best, and as single-minded as a man can be, she misunderstood my words,
my meaning, my very coming; and she said things which cannot be unsaid.  Things . . . matters
were so fixed that I could not explain; and I had to listen.  She said things that I did not
believe she could have said to me, to anyone. Things that I did not think she could have thought
. . . I dare say she was right in some ways.  I suppose I bungled in my desire to be unselfish.
What she said came to me in new lights upon what I had done . . . But anyhow her statements
were such that I felt I could not, should not, remain.  My very presence must have been a trouble
to her hereafter. There was nothing for it but to come away.  There was no place for me!  No
hope for me!  There is none on this side of the grave! . . . For I love her still, more than
ever.  I honour and worship her still, and ever will, and ever must! . . . I am content to
forego my own happiness; but I feel there is a danger to her from what has been.  That there
is and must be to her unhappiness even from the fact that it was I who was the object of her
wrath; and this adds to my woe.  Worst of all is . . . the thought and the memory that she
should have done so; she who . . . she . . . '

He turned away overcome and hid his face in his hands.  The old man sat still; he knew that
at such a moment silence is the best form of sympathy.  But his heart glowed; the wisdom of
his years told him that he had heard as yet of no absolute bar to his friend's ultimate happiness.

'I am rejoiced, my dear boy, at what you tell me of your own conduct.  It would have made no
difference to me had it been otherwise.  But it would have meant a harder and longer climb
back to the place you should hold. But it really seems that nothing is so hopeless as you think.
Believe me, my dear young friend who are now as a son to my heart, that there will be bright
days for you yet . . . '  He paused a moment, but mastering himself went on in a quiet voice:

'I think you are wise to go away.  In the solitudes and in danger things that are little in
reality will find their true perspective; and things that are worthy will appear in their constant
majesty.'

He stood, and laying once again his hand on the young man's shoulder said:

'I recognise that I--that we, for my wife and little girl would be at one with me in my wish,
did they know of it, must not keep you from your purpose of fighting out your trouble alone.
Every man, as the Scotch proverb says, must "dree his own weird."  I shall not, I must not,
ask you for any promise; but I trust that if ever you do come back you will make us all glad
by seeing you.  And remember that what I said of myself and of all I have--all--holds good
so long as I shall live!'

Before Harold could reply he had slipped down the ladder and was gone.

During the rest of the voyage, with the exception of one occasion, he did not allude to the
subject again by word or implication, and Harold was grateful to him for it.

On the night before Fire Island should be sighted Harold was in the bow of the great ship looking
out with eyes in which gleamed no hope.  To him came through the darkness Mr. Stonehouse. 
He heard the footsteps and knew them; so with the instinct of courtesy, knowing that his friend
would not intrude on his solitude without purpose, he turned and met him. When the American
stood beside him he said, studiously avoiding looking at his companion:

'This is the last night we shall be together, and, if I may, there is one thing I would like
to say to you.'

'Say all you like, sir,' said Harold as heartily as he could, 'I am sure it is well meant;
and for that at any rate I shall be grateful to you.'

'You will yet be grateful, I think!' he answered gravely.  'When it comes back to you in loneliness
and solitude you will, I believe, think it worth being grateful for.  I don't mean that you
will be grateful to me, but for the thing itself.  I speak out of the wisdom of many years.
At your time of life the knowledge cannot come from observation.  It may my poor boy, come
through pain; and if what I think is correct you will even in due time be grateful to the pain
which left such golden residuum.'  He paused, and Harold grew interested.  There was something
in the old man's manner which presaged a truth; he, at least, believed it.  So the young man
listened at first with his ears; and as the other spoke, his heart listened too:

'Young men are apt to think somewhat wrongly of women they love and respect.  We are apt to
think that such women are of a different clay from ourselves.  Nay! that they are not compact
of clay at all, but of some faultless, flawless material which the Almighty keeps for such
fine work.  It is only in middle age that men--except scamps, who learn this bad side of knowledge
young--realise that women are human beings like themselves.  It may be, you know, that you
may have misjudged this young lady!  That you have not made sufficient allowance for her youth,
her nature, even the circumstances under which she spoke.  You have told me that she was in
some deep grief or trouble.  May it not have been that this in itself unnerved her, distorted
her views, aroused her passion till all within and around was tinged with the jaundice of her
concern, her humiliation--whatever it was that destroyed for the time that normal self which
you had known so long.  May it not have been that her bitterest memory even since may be of
the speaking of these very words which sent you out into the wide world to hide yourself from
men.  I have thought, waking and sleeping, of your position ever since you honoured me with
your confidence; and with every hour the conviction has strengthened in me that there is a
way out of this situation which sends a man like you into solitude with a heart hopeless and
full of pain; and which leaves her perhaps in greater pain, for she has not like you the complete
sense of innocence.  But at present there is no way out but through time and thought.  Whatever
may be her ideas or wishes she is powerless.  She does not know your thoughts, no matter how
she may guess at them.  She does not know where you are or how to reach you, no matter how
complete her penitence may be.  And oh! my dear young friend, remember that you are a strong
man, and she is a woman.  Only a woman in her passion and her weakness after all.  Think this
all over, my poor boy!  You will have time and opportunity where you are going.  God help you
to judge wisely!' After a pause of a few seconds he said abruptly: 'Good night!' and moved
quickly away.

* * * * *

When the time for parting came Pearl was inconsolable.  Not knowing any reason why The Man
should not do as she wished she was persistent in her petitions to Harold that he should come
with her, and to her father and mother that they should induce him to do so.  Mrs. Stonehouse
would have wished him to join them if only for a time.  Her husband, unable to give any hint
without betraying confidence, had to content himself with trying to appease his little daughter
by vague hopes rather than promises that her friend would join them at some other time.

When the Scoriac was warped at the pier there was a tendency on the part of the passengers
to give Harold a sort of public send-off; but becoming aware of it he hurried down the gangway
without waiting.  Having only hand luggage, for he was to get his equipment in New York, he
had cleared and passed the ring of customs officers before the most expeditious of the other
passengers had collected their baggage.  He had said good-bye to the Stonehouses in their own
cabin.  Pearl had been so much affected at saying good-bye, and his heart had so warmed to
her, that at last he had said impulsively:

'Don't cry, darling.  If I am spared I shall come back to you within three years.  Perhaps
I will write before then; but there are not many post-offices where I am going to!'

Children are easily satisfied.  Their trust makes a promise a real thing; and its acceptance
is the beginning of satisfaction.  But for weeks after the parting she had often fits of deep
depression, and at such times her tears always flowed.  She took note of the date, and there
was never a day that she did not think of and sigh for The Man.

And The Man, away in the wilds of Alaska, was feeling, day by day and hour by hour, the chastening
and purifying influences of the wilderness. Hot passions cooled before the breath of the snowfield
and the glacier. The moaning of a tortured spirit was lost in the roar of the avalanche and
the scream of the cyclone.  Pale sorrow and cold despair were warmed and quickened by the fierce
sunlight which came suddenly and stayed only long enough to vitalise all nature.

And as the first step to understanding, The Man forgot himself.

CHAPTER XXVIII--DE LANNOY

Two years!

Not much to look back upon, but a world to look forward to.  To Stephen, dowered though she
was with rare personal gifts and with wealth and position accorded to but few, the hours of
waiting were longer than the years that were past.  Yet the time had new and startling incidents
for her.  Towards Christmas in the second year the Boer war had reached its climax of evil.
As the news of disaster after disaster was flashed through the cable she like others felt appalled
at the sacrifices that were being exacted by the God of War.

One day she casually read in The Times that the Earl de Lannoy had died in his London mansion,
and further learned that he had never recovered from the shock of hearing that his two sons
and his nephew had been killed.  The paragraph concluded: "By his death the title passes to
a distant relative.  The new Lord de Lannoy is at present in India with his regiment, the 35th
or 'Grey' Hussars, of which he is Colonel."  She gave the matter a more than passing thought,
for it was sad to find a whole family thus wiped out at a blow.

Early in February she received a telegram from her London solicitor saying that he wished to
see her on an important matter.  Her answer was: "Come at once"; and at tea-time Mr. Copleston
arrived.  He was an old friend and she greeted him warmly.  She was a little chilled when he
answered with what seemed unusual deference:

'I thank your Ladyship for your kindness!'  She raised her eyebrows but made no comment: she
was learning to be silent under surprise.  When she had handed the old gentleman his tea she said:

'My aunt has chosen to remain away, thinking that you might wish to see me privately.  But
I take it that there is nothing which she may not share.  I have no secrets from her.'

He rubbed his hands genially as he replied:

'Not at all; not at all!  I should like her to be present.  It will, I am sure, be a delight
to us all.'

Again raised eyebrows; again silence on the subject.  When a servant answered her bell she
told him to ask Miss Rowly if she would kindly join them.

Aunt Laetitia and the solicitor were old cronies, and their greeting was most friendly.  When
the old gentlewoman had seated herself and taken her cup of tea, Mr. Copleston said to Stephen,
with a sort of pomposity:

'I have to announce your succession to the Earldom de Lannoy!'

Stephen sat quite still.  She knew the news was true; Mr. Copleston was not one who would jest
on a business subject, and too accurate a lawyer to make an error in a matter of fact.  But
the fact did not seem to touch her.  It was not that she was indifferent to it; few women could
hear such news without a thrill.  Mr. Copleston seemed at a loss.  Miss Rowly rose and quietly
kissed her, and saying simply, 'God bless you, my dear!' went back to her seat.

Realising that Mr. Copleston expected some acknowledgment, Stephen held out her hand to him
and said quietly:

'Thank you!'

After a long pause she added quietly:

'Now, won't you tell us about it?  I am in absolute ignorance; and don't understand.'

'I had better not burden you, at first, with too many details, which can come later; but give
you a rough survey of the situation.'

'Your title of Countess de Lannoy comes to you through your ancestor Isobel, third and youngest
daughter of the sixth Earl; Messrs Collinbrae and Jackson, knowing that my firm acted for your
family, communicated with us.  Lest there should be any error we followed most carefully every
descendant and every branch of the family, for we thought it best not to communicate with you
till your right of inheritance was beyond dispute. We arrived independently at the same result
as Messrs. Collinbrae and Jackson.  There is absolutely no doubt whatever of your claim.  You
will petition the Crown, and on reference to the House of Lords the Committee for Privileges
will admit your right.  May I offer my congratulations, Lady de Lannoy on your acquisition?
By the way, I may say that all the estates of the Earldom, which have been from the first kept
in strict entail, go with the title de Lannoy.'

During the recital Stephen was conscious of a sort of bitter comment on the tendencies of good
fortune.

'Too late! too late!' something seemed to whisper, 'what delight it would have been had Father
inherited . . . If Harold had not gone . . . !'  All the natural joy seemed to vanish, as bubbles
break into empty air.

