Very little requires to be said in this chapter regarding boatmen, as when the angler gets
into the habit of frequenting certain lochs, he soon finds out for himself the steady reliable
men in the neighbourhood, and can generally engage one of them beforehand by writing to the
hotel at which he means to put up. But in going to a new fishing-ground, he is better to leave
himself in the hands of the landlord of the hotel, and if not satisfied with his first day's
experience of the man who accompanied him, let him change. A good boatman is a treasure; and
though we are decidedly against the system of "tipping" indiscriminately, we say, when you
get a good man, pay him liberally. We know of some men with whom it is a pleasure to be out
all day, and whose company, in its own way, is most enjoyable. Keen sportsmen these are, and
the capture or loss of a fish is a source of true pleasure or pain. Other men one comes across
seem but to row the boat, and nothing more; and an unproductive day in such company is something
to be looked back upon with horror. The leading qualification of a boatman of the right sort
is a strong sympathy with the angler, which enables him almost instinctively to help the angler
to cover every inch of likely water with his flies, and makes him experience the sensation
of expecting a rise every cast; in other words, he almost puts the fly into the fish's mouth.
With such a man, instructions regarding the management of the boat are superfluous; but as
it often happens that you do not get a first-rate hand, you have to take matters into your
own hands to some extent; and we shall give you a few hints as to what is best to be done under
such circumstances. It is hardly to be supposed that your man is in ignorance of the best ground,
either from experience or hearsay, and it is only after you get there that our instructions
can possibly come into operation. If you are obliged to take a perfect greenhorn, we know of
no other course than to order him to keep in the wake of some other boat, but that at such
a distance as not to be offensive. (See next chapter on the "Etiquette of Loch-fishing.") But
let us assume that you get on to ground where fish are: the first point is to see that everything
is in order, all unnecessary articles put out of the way, and the landing-net and gaff conveniently
at hand. We ought to have said that a large stone in the bow is useful, not only to balance
the boat and make her drift better, but also as a weight to which a rope may be attached, and
thus let over the side to the depth of a few feet, to prevent her drifting too rapidly should
there happen to be a heavy breeze on. The next thing is to get the boat properly broadside
to the wind, so that you may have next to no trouble in casting. Should a fish be hooked, see
that the man keeps working the boat in such a manner that the fish cannot possibly get underneath:
a single stroke of the oar in the proper direction is generally all that is necessary. You
must also judge from the size of the fish, and the length and strength of your tackle, whether
it is expedient that the man should follow the fish if he makes a very long run. If your line
happens to be short--which it will not be, if you have followed the instructions given in Chapter
III.--you need not be surprised if you find nothing left but your rod and reel, your line,
and mayhap a "half-croon flee" flying about the loch in charge of a fish. The management of
the landing-net or gaff is another serious matter. If the fish be small, tell the man to have
the net ready, and "run it in;" but if it is a good-sized fish, you must tell him not to put
the net near till he gets the word from you. Many a time we have suppressed an exclamation--the
reverse of a blessing--when we have seen the hoop of the landing-net strike the fish, and were
in suspense for a second or two as to whether he was on or off. If the gaff is necessary, it
is almost as well to let your man hold the rod after you have tired the fish thoroughly, and
gaff him yourself. But if you think it unadvisable to part with the rod, send the man to the
other end of the boat from yourself, and then lead the fish near him, so that he may have a
fair chance. He must put the gaff over the fish till the point is in a line with its broadside,
and then with a sudden jerk sink the steel into, or even through, the animal, and lift him
over the gunwale with all possible speed. A sharp blow or two on the snout will deprive the
fish of life. Always kill your fish,--big or small,--as nothing ought to be more repulsive
to a true sportsman than to see or hear any animal he has captured dying by inches.

It is perhaps needless to say that in the matter of lunch and drink, due consideration should
always be paid to your boatman's wants; indeed if he has had a hard time of it rowing against
a stiff breeze, nothing is lost by landing at mid-day and letting him enjoy half an hour's
rest and a smoke after he has refreshed his inner man. Sometimes--such as in a club competition--such
luxuries must be denied; but even then he can put you on to a square drift, and enjoy his lunch
and smoke while you are fishing; and you, on the other hand, can take yours when he is changing
ground. These remarks may seem trifling; but we only give you our experience, when we say that
on some lochs where good boatmen are not plentiful, the angler who has shown most kindness
and consideration on past occasions is never much put about for want of a man, even in a busy
season. And we have known, when every regular boatman was engaged, that there was generally
a boatman's "friend" in the neighbourhood who was pressed into our service, and that often
at a few minutes' notice.

CHAPTER VII.

ETIQUETTE OF LOCH-FISHING.

Politeness is politeness all the world over, and in loch-fishing it is particularly to be practised.
The gentle art is peculiarly adapted for gentlemen,--using the word in its truest sense,--and
the true angler will never be mistaken for anything else. In the Club to which we have the
honour to belong, there are certain rules which would commend themselves naturally to any one
of us; but in order that these may be clear and well defined, they are circulated annually,
and are in themselves so admirable that we cannot do better than quote them:--

    "1. No boat shall be entitled to take position in front of any other
    boat which shall have already begun drifting, at a less distance
    than three hundred yards.

    "2. Any competitor intending to drift a bay already in possession of
    another competitor shall be obliged to take position behind, or on
    the outside of and in a line with the latter, but at such a distance
    as not to interfere with the boat first in possession of the drift.

    "3. In cases where boats are changing water, it shall not be
    admissible for any boat so doing to go between the shore and any
    other boat drifting close thereon."

These rules, as may be inferred, refer to club competitions in particular, but they are made
the standard upon all occasions where there is any chance of their becoming applicable. So
much indeed have we got into the way of regarding these rules,--strict as they are,--that we
observe them even when meeting with strangers on any loch in any part of the kingdom. And pay
special attention, if you happen to be trolling in the neighbourhood, never to interfere with
the drift on which a fly-fisher is engaged. Nothing is more unbecoming, as it disturbs the
water which is his by right, if he has begun to drift; and it is an unwritten rule that the
fly-fisher should generally be allowed the first of the ground, as his style of fishing does
not make the same commotion as a trolling boat and tackle do. Very few of us but have experienced
the annoyance of a minnow-boat crossing our drift when we were fly-fishing; and though we had
no redress, and could make no remarks without lowering ourselves to the level of our offenders,
we have, like the nigger's parrot, "thought a mighty lot." Do not hesitate to put yourself
out of your way to help a neighbour in distress. He may have hooked a large fish and be unprovided
with a gaff: if you have one let him have it instantly, taking his directions from which side
you are to approach him; and never let the loss of a few minutes, more or less, deter you from
following the golden rule of doing to him as you would expect him to do to you were you similarly
placed. And, as it sometimes happens where boats are scarce and anglers many, when you are
in the same boat with a stranger, see that you confine yourself strictly to your own share
of the water, not making casts which endanger "fankling" for the mere sake of covering a little
more water with your flies. Should you have a fly that is taking better than any other of your
own or his, offer him one; and in general try to make the day's fishing one as much for the
cultivation of goodwill and the promotion of good-fellowship as for the mere sake of making
a basket. A churlish angler is an unnatural phenomenon, and, thank Providence! they seldom
turn up. A man who can look upon the beautiful scenery amid which he takes his pleasure,--and
there is none finer in the world than our Scottish lochs and their surroundings,--and not feel
grateful to the Giver of all good, and at peace with all mankind, ought to burn his rod, singe
his flies, and only associate with men like himself.

If the introduction of this chapter into our book will have the effect of creating a better
understanding on the etiquette of loch-fishing between brothers of the angle, the object for
which it was written will have been accomplished--and, let us hope, a large amount of goodwill
thereby promoted.

CHAPTER VIII.

CASTING AND STRIKING.

We shall treat this subject under two aspects: first, if you have the whole boat to yourself;
and second, if it is being shared by some one else.

If you have a boat to yourself, stand as near the centre of it as you possibly can without
interfering with the boatman in rowing, and cover every inch of the water in front of you and
as far to the sides as the wind will permit. Always be careful how you cast--that is, every
time you throw your flies see that they land lightly on the water, as no one can expect to
raise fish if any splash is made by either line or flies. Fine casting is not quite so essential,
of course, when a fair breeze is blowing; but if the wind be light, then the difference between
a well-thrown fly and the reverse is very apparent. After you have made a satisfactory cast,
draw the line slowly to you by raising the point of the rod, taking care to keep the line as
taut as possible. Also see that your bob-fly is tripping on the surface, as we consider that
a well-managed "bob" is the most life-like of the whole lot. Do not fish with too long a line,
unless, indeed, on an exceptional occasion, when you wish to reach the lie of a feeding fish.
It is difficult to define a long line, but a good general rule is that it should never be longer
than when you have the consciousness that, if a fish should rise, you have him at a fair and
instantaneous striking distance. Remember that the time the flies first touch the water after
each cast is the most deadly; therefore, cast often.

If you have only the share of a boat, the rule is that one man takes the stern up till lunch,
and the other after it. For ourselves, we have a preference for the bow, and we generally find
that most anglers prefer the luxury of the stern; so when both parties are pleased, there is
no occasion for changing at all. The most important thing to bear in mind when you have a companion
is, as we said in last chapter, to confine yourself to your own water. If the left-hand cast
is the one proper to your end of the boat, cast as much to your right hand as you can without
infringing on your neighbour's share of the water: all the water to your left hand is of course
yours. The same remarks apply vice versa. Never stop casting so long as you are on fishable
ground, for you know not the moment a good fish may rise. Certain it is that unless you keep
your flies constantly going, you cannot expect to have the same basket as the angler who does.
Keep your eyes on your flies in a general way, and do not let your attention be distracted
so long as they are in the water. Every angler has experienced the annoyance of missing fish
when looking elsewhere for a single moment--either at another boat, or at a fish "rising to
itself," or at the sky, or at something else. When the eyes were turned to the point from which
they should not have been diverted, they were just in time to see the water swirl, and the
hand gave a futile strike at what had disappeared a second before. Perhaps we should have said
at the beginning of this chapter to place implicit faith in the flies with which you are fishing.
Nothing is more ridiculous than whipping the water with a cast, of the suitableness of which
you have any doubt; and to guard against any such chance, study carefully the state of the
weather and the wind. If very clear, use sombre flies; but if a dark day, use brighter flies.
You will of course regulate the size according to the breeze, but as a rule, err on the side
of small flies. When you raise a fish, strike at once. It is quite possible that by this method
you may once in a while strike the least bit too soon, but it is a safe plan to go by. There
is always a particle of a moment spent in the tightening of the line; and by the time the angler
sees a fish at his flies, he may safely conclude that it has already seized or missed them,
and the sooner he ascertains the true state of matters by striking instantaneously, the better.
If the fish has not been touched by line or hook, cast gently over him again: the chances are
that there will be another rise, and, if the fish has been feeding, every likelihood that the
second or even a third time may be lucky. In striking small fish, the least tightening of the
line is sufficient; but with large fish, when your tackle and hooks are strong, strike firmly
home to send the steel well in, right over the barb. Tackle that will not stand this had better
be given away or destroyed,--the latter for choice.

CHAPTER IX.

TROLLING.

Our readers will have guessed, from what has preceded this chapter, that we don't believe in
trolling if it can be avoided; but still there are times and occasions on which it must be
practised, and we plead guilty to having gone in for it oftener than once, when we saw that
fly-fishing was useless. On the other hand, however, we have set out with a firm determination
to do a fair day's trolling,--and nothing but trolling,--but somehow or another it has generally
ended in fly-fishing when we could, and trolling as a dernier ressort when we could not. This,
we doubt not, has been the experience of many of our angling friends to whom the mere killing
of fish is a secondary consideration compared with the enjoyment of real sport. But when trolling
is the order of the day, either from choice or necessity, then this is the way to go about
it. We assume, of course, that the angler is equipped with tackle and lines specified in Chapter
V., and that he has a supply also of live minnows with him. The elaborate tin-cans for holding
minnows are quite unnecessary so far as loch-fishing is concerned; any ordinary vessel will
do well enough for a day, provided the water is changed now and again. In trolling, two rods
will be found ample. They should be placed at right angles to the boat,--the "thowl-pin," or,
if there is not one near enough the stern, anything (a cheap gimlet answers admirably) fixed
into the gunwale, being sufficient to keep the rod in position,--so that the spinners, of whatever
kind they may be, will be as far apart from each other as possible. Take care that the butts
of the rods are well at the bottom of the boat, as we have seen a rod not sufficiently fixed
go overboard before now. A main point in trolling is to have plenty of line out. There should
never be less than thirty yards out from one rod, and not less that forty from the other. By
this means, should a fish not see the first lure, he may see the second. If trolling with natural
minnow, which is much more apt to get out of order than artificial ones, see that the bait
is intact and spinning properly. This involves the trouble of hauling it in for examination
now and then; but it is better to be at that trouble than be fishing with, mayhap, a mangled
lure, or one that has got out of spinning order, and more likely to act as a repellent than
an attraction to any fish in the neighbourhood. In trolling any likely ground, the proper way
is to tell your man to zigzag it, not pulling the boat in a straight line, but going over the
ground diagonally, and thus covering as much of it as it is possible to do with a couple score
yards of line behind. The turning of the boat necessitates a considerable circle being taken
to keep the lures spinning, and so that the lines do not get mixed up; and your man, after
making the turn, should row in a slightly slanting direction towards the point from which he
originally started, thus--

and so on, till the chances of raising a fish on that beat are exhausted.

Should a small fish come on, haul it in hand-over-hand; and the man must not stop rowing, as
the other minnow is out, and must be kept spinning. If, however, a fish that needs playing
comes to you, you must seize the rod to which he has come, and the boatman must take the other,
and wind in as fast as possible. You should not commence winding in till the other line is
wound up so far as to preclude the chance of the fish mixing up both lines together. Barring
the risk one runs of a serious mess, it is not a bad plan to troll from a reel a cast of larger-sized
flies than would be used in ordinary fly-fishing. This line follows, of course, in a straight
track behind the boat, and the minnows being considerably to right and left of it, there is
no danger of their getting mixed so long as the boat is moving; but the risk is apparent should
a fish come to either of the three lines, and great activity is then necessary on the part
of yourself and boatman to keep things right. You must keep the fish at as considerable a distance
from the other lines as you can, and trust a good deal to the chances of war for the ultimate
safety of all. Some days, even when casting was unproductive, we have been fortunate in securing
fish by trolling our flies in the manner described. Indeed, unless the day or the season is
decidedly in favour of trolling minnows, we prefer, if only trolling two lines, to troll from
one of them with the minnow, and from the other with the fly. This must always be decided,
however, by the judgment of the angler, and by his surroundings for the time being. One thing
in favour of trolling with the minnow is, that the best size of fish are caught by that means.
This is not invariably the case, but it is the rule. And in concluding this chapter, we must
not omit to acknowledge that we are glad to know that when we are not so young as we once were,
and when the wielding of a rod all day long shall have come to be a serious matter, we shall
still have the pleasure of roaming about our lovely lochs--Highland or Lowland--and have the
excitement of landing fish, coupled with our enjoyment of fresh air and grand scenery. For
this reason, if for no other, cultivate as often as you can, without entrenching on the nobler
pastime of fly-fishing, the art of trolling--for we must confess that there is an art in this
as in everything else; and should my reader be sceptical on the point, he has only to try conclusions,
when he gets the chance, with some old troller, and he will be convinced before supper-time.

CHAPTER X.

CAPTURE OF FISH.

Scotch loch-fishing, as usually practised, only embraces the capture of the salmo species--that
is, the salmo fario, or common yellow trout; the salmo trutta, or sea-trout; and salmo salar,
the "fish," as most boatmen call it, and the noblest game of the finny creation. Besides these
there is, of course, the salmo ferox; but it is comparatively scarce, and only worth trolling
for in some particular lochs, where they are known to be more easily come across than in others.
And sometimes when worthier game is not to be had, we have a spin for pike, but Mr Jack is
as difficult to catch at times as his more aristocratic comrades. In most Scotch lochs where
any supervision is exercised at the instance of our local clubs, the extermination of pike
is most vigorously carried on by means of fixed and splash nets. This, as regards our large
lochs, where there is room for all, we have no hesitation in saying is a mistake, as it shuts
up one means of enjoying a day's fishing when nothing else in the way of fish is to be had;
and it must be borne in mind that there are some older anglers, to whom a whole day's fly-fishing
is a labour, who never object, when trolling, to come across a pike: and no wonder, for a pike
of 10 lb. and upwards gives some fair play, though by no means to compare with what a fish
of the salmo tribe of that weight would give. Then we have perch in abundance, and splendid
eels; but as these need a float and bait to catch them, we dismiss them as quite infra dig.
True a perch will come at a minnow, and we have sometimes seen them take a fly; but they are
generally voted a nuisance, and expelled the boat.

As regards the capture of fish, we shall proceed to deal with each in order; and at the outset
we remark, that when you have hooked a fish, it is a safe general rule to waste no unnecessary
time in bringing him to the landing-net or gaff, and thence into the boat. When playing a fish,
never allow the line to get slack, unless, indeed, when he leaps into the air,--then you must
give him rope; but so soon as he gets into his native element, feel his mouth instantly. Always
play your fish to windward of the boat if there is some one sharing it with you, as this allows
him to go on casting to leeward. Of course, if you have the whole boat to yourself, play your
fish in any way that it will be most expeditiously brought to basket. The angler ought to be
well assured of the strength of his tackle, and when he has confidence in that, he will soon
learn to judge of the proper strain to which it may be subjected. In the case of COMMON YELLOW
TROUT, averaging, as most loch trout do, about three to the pound, there is no occasion to
put off time with any one of them; but in some lochs, such as Loch Leven, where the average
is fairly one pound, and where two and three pounders are by no means uncommon, some care and
a little play are absolutely necessary. But do not, even in such a case, give him too much
of his own way. We can assure our readers that a three-pound Loch Leven trout, in good condition,
on fine gut and small irons, gives as nice a piece of play, and exercise to the eye, hand,
and judgment, as could well be desired.

The SEA-TROUT is, for his size, the gamest of all fish. He is bold as a lion, and fights harder
for his life than a salmon twice his size. A fish of three pounds will run out a considerable
piece of line, and make a splendid leap, or series of leaps,--and then is the trying time.
As often as not, your flies and the fish part company in the air, and you have to sit down
muttering "curses not loud but deep," till an application to the flask soothes your wounded
spirit, and invigorates you for fresh effort. A beautiful sight it is to see a sea-trout rise.
No half-hearted attempt is his, but a determined rush for the fly, and down again like thought,
leaving you the tiniest part of a moment to strike, and hardly time to admire his beautiful
silvery coat. If you have been fortunate enough to get the steel into him, you will have time
to admire him when you get him into the boat. Fishing for sea-trout with the fly is, we consider,
the most exciting of all kinds of fishing--that is, if the fish run to a fair average weight.
But we are sorry to say that lochs where it is to be enjoyed are, with the solitary exception
of Loch Lomond, usually far out of ordinary reach,--and in the case of Loch Lomond, it is only
habitués who usually come much speed on it; but once the angler gets a fair day there, he finds
his way back often. True, there are some excellent sea-trout lochs in the north, and on the
west coast and islands, but they are a far cry from civilisation. Nevertheless, if our readers
can spare the time, let them find their way into some unfrequented spot where sea-trout are
plentiful, and they will agree with us in thinking that that class of fishing is a most excellent
sport. Some parts of Ireland are famous for their fine sea-trout fishing--white trout they
call them there; and though we have never been there ourselves, we mean to go some day, when
the Land Bill has pacified the natives, and made them law-abiding subjects. Meantime one runs
the risk of being mistaken for a non-resident landlord, and that would be a pity for one's
wife and family. But without any joking, this Irish sea-trout fishing is a pleasure to which
we look forward; and in this work-a-day world, something to look forward to is half the enjoyment
of life.

The capture of the SALMON is the ambition of all anglers, but we doubt very much if the sport
is to compare with ordinary loch or sea-trout fishing, provided always that the latter are
of good average weight. The tackle used in salmon-fishing is proportionately heavy, and after
the first few rushes, if the fish be well hooked, there is little in it except a matter of
time. Indeed it is said that some anglers, after hooking a salmon, hand the rod to a gillie
to work and land the fish. This seems going too much in the other direction, but it is quite
understandable. True, the size to which salmon run is a great inducement to go after them;
but even in Loch Tay, where the biggest average is to be found, the sport, if such it can be
called at all, is very questionable. The rod, line, gut, and minnows used are on such a strong
scale, that a well-sized vessel might be moored with them without their breaking; and with
several scores of yards of line ready for a rush, what earthly chance has the fish of escape,
unless through the grossest carelessness? The fish may be loosely hooked, and get off, but
this is quite a matter of chance, and the odds are that a hungry spring fish will not miss
the lure. Thus the charm of salmon-fishing is in the raising and striking; and of all kinds
of striking, the striking of the salmon is the most difficult: the fish being so large and
silvery, the angler is certain to see him coming at the fly, and is very apt to strike too
soon. But if it is borne in mind to strike after the broken water is visible, and not before
it, this will soon be overcome. When you do strike, don't let it be a mere tightening of the
line, as in trout-fishing, but a decided stroke. Some say that the salmon will hook himself
by his own weight. This may be so, though we doubt it,--but don't trust to it. Certain it is,
that the first rush of a fish does not usually fix him certain; and should the hook happen
to be in a piece of hard gristle or on a bone, you will soon find this out for yourself, but
generally at the cost of the fish.

Salmon-fishing is an expensive luxury; but if you can get it good, never mind the expense,
but give it a trial. If you get good sport, you may not care to go in for smaller game again;
but in all our experience we never knew a salmon fisher who did not enjoy trout-fishing as
much in its own way as ever he did that of the nobler animal. There is something in the gossamer
gut and small flies irresistibly attractive to all sportsmen, and from which no amount of salmon-fishing
can ever wean them.

The salmo ferox is a fish on which many opinions have been expressed; and we have heard more
than one old boatman say that he did not believe it to be anything but a big loch-trout, as,
they ask, Who ever saw a young one? We see the young of all other fish, but why do we never
come across a young ferox? It seems pertinent enough questioning, and we do not pretend to
settle their doubts in either one way or another. Certain it is, he is a big strong fish with
some features distinct from the ordinary loch trout, and that when caught he shows an amount
of fight not to be equalled by any of his neighbours, either white or brown. He is usually
caught by trolling either natural or artificial minnow; and the tackle should be mounted on
gimp and fixed to a strong line, and plenty of it. We have read of a ferox rising to the fly,
but never saw one so captured. There seems no reason why a gaudy fly should not attract him.
After he is hooked the fun begins. A ferox of 10 to 12 lb. will give you amusement and excitement
for an indefinite time; and you are never sure of him till he is in the boat. A friend of ours
(a capital angler to boot) fishing with us on Loch Assynt in Sutherlandshire in 1877, hooked
a fine specimen; and after battling with him for an hour, had the mortification of seeing fish,
angel-minnow, and trace, disappear! A good boatman is a wonderful help in such a case; indeed
without his help your chances are small. To be sure it is slow work trolling for feroces, and
a whole day--yea, days--may be spent without getting a run. The angler must always be the best
judge as to whether the chance is worth his while. Loch Awe, Loch Ericht, Loch Rannoch, and
Loch Assynt, are good lochs for trying one's luck in this kind of fishing.

Then to come from the nobler to an inferior species, we get to PIKE fishing. Angling for this
fish seems to be in great repute among our southern brethren, if we may judge by the literature
on the subject; but somehow or other it is looked upon among our northern anglers with somewhat
the same aversion that a Jew has to bacon, and fishing for pike is only resorted to when all
chance of catching anything worthier is gone. We don't profess to say whence this antipathy
arises; but we have heard stories from boatmen about the foul feeding of pike that makes the
idea of eating him repulsive. Not but that we have eaten him, but we never did so with relish,
however cunningly the artiste may have served him up. As a stock for soup he is good; but in
Scotland it is better not to say what the origin of the stock is till your friends are at their
café noir. But here we are only interested so far as the sport he gives is concerned; and unless
the pike be all the larger--say not under 8 lb.--the sport is poor enough. Even a pike of 8
lb. and over, when hooked (which is done by trolling or casting a minnow and working it after
the manner of a fly), makes one or two long pulls, not rushes like a fish of the salmo tribe;
and after that he subsides into a sulk from which you must trust to the strength of your tackle
to arouse him. The tackle should be mounted on gimp, for his teeth are very sharp; and when
removing the lure from his mouth, you will find it much safer to have previously put the foot-spar
between his jaws to prevent him getting at your fingers.

There is a fly, if such it can be called, used in pike-fishing. This fly resembles a natural
insect as much as a tea-pot resembles an elephant, but it does attract pike--in the same way,
we suppose, that a piece of red flannel will attract a mackerel. If our readers wish to try
it, they can buy it at almost any tackle shop. Pike are to be found in almost all lochs, though
in the more frequented of our Scotch waters they are being slowly but surely exterminated.
In others, again, they reign almost alone. But pike-fishing by itself is a poor affair, and
we advise our readers only to take to it when they can do nought better. If any of them wish
to go below the level of pike-fishing, we must refer them to the copious instructions of many
books, from Isaak Walton downwards. For ourselves, when it comes to bait-fishing--except in
running water, when worm-fishing is an art--we prefer catching whitings and haddocks in some
of our beautiful salt-water lochs, to all the perch, roach, chub, and such-like, that ever
swam. But in this please note that we are only expressing our own opinion, and with all respect
to the opinions of many worthy anglers. We may say this, however, with all safety, that in
angling, as in most other things, if one aims at the highest point of the art he is not at
all likely to condescend to the lowest.

CHAPTER XI.

AFTER A DAY'S FISHING.

What a pleasant fatigue succeeds a day's fishing! There is not, or should not be, a feeling
of weariness, but just the satisfaction one feels after enjoying a health-giving recreation.
Health-giving it certainly is to the body, and we have no hesitation in saying to the mind
also. It makes one forget for the time being all the evils to which flesh is heir, and braces
up the whole system to meet them when the necessity arises. But we must not go in for more
sentiment than is actually needful. The practical duties after a day's fishing are these. If
the weather has been damp, change all wet garments at once, and if at all practicable have
a hot bath before sitting down to dinner. We say dinner advisedly, for the angler should always
have a good sound dinner after a day's fishing, as however pleasant the work may have been,
still it is exhausting to the body, and a rough tea, though good in itself, cannot pretend
to have the reviving elements in it that a substantial dinner has. A glass of whisky, or even
two, in cold water, will be found a very safe accompaniment. A good plan is to order your whisky
by the bottle, and put your card in a nick made in the cork: the ordering of whisky in glasses
is expensive and unsatisfactory. Your dinner over, turn your attention to your tackle. Unwind
your lines, so far as they have been wet, from the reels, and lay them out on your bedroom
floor; if any chance of being interfered with, wind them round the backs of chairs instead.
They will be dry by the morning. Dry your reels thoroughly, and put in a little oil wherever
you think they would be the better of it; and this should be done to any other article--spring-balance,
gaff, &c.--that is liable to rust. Your creel or fishing-bag should be washed out and hung
up to dry by the servants of the house immediately after the fish have been removed, which
latter should be done without delay. Your landing-net should also be suspended in the open
air, that it may get dry as speedily as possible. A landing-net will last double the time if
attention is given to it in this way. Take out all used casting-lines from your book, and lay
them on the mantelpiece till morning: this will insure the feathers being freed from moisture.
And in the case of expensive flies, this is a matter of consideration, both on the point of
expense as well as your possible inability to replace them where you may happen to be sojourning
for the time. If you mean to make up a new cast or casts for the morrow, place the casting-lines
in a little water in your basin. They will be in excellent order next morning for manipulation.
Also soak in like manner the gut on which the flies which you mean to use are dressed. True,
you may not be sure what flies you will put on till you see what sort of a day it may prove
to be, but there is no harm done if you soak the gut (but only the gut) of as many flies as
will give you a good choice.

We should have said nearer the beginning of this chapter to look well after your waterproofs,
that they are not hung up in a hot place. A dry room or outhouse where there is a good draught
is best. If your fishing should happen to be over for the time being, put your tackle past
(after being thoroughly dried) in the most orderly fashion possible. For our own part, we have
the drawer in our bookcase spaced out into compartments suitable for holding all our tackle,
barring reels and such like; and this arrangement we find extremely useful, and wonderfully
convenient when we wish to find anything. If, on the other hand, you are out on a lengthy holiday,
and have time at your disposal, after putting things right for the day, and for next day too,
we know of nothing better than a good rubber at whist for filling up the evening. It must be
a good rubber, however, for the parlour game is neither relaxation nor pleasure. Hence we would
advise all our angling friends to acquire a thorough knowledge of the game, as only to be learned
with the aid of a good book on the subject. Remember that when staying at some out-of-the-way
fishing hotel, you may be asked to form a table with good players, and not to be able to hold
your own on such occasions is a great loss of pleasure to yourself, and usually a source of
annoyance to the others. These remarks are somewhat apart from the subject of this book, but
by way of an aside, they may be found not quite out of place.

Do not be beguiled into keeping late hours, for no one can fish well next day if he has not
had a sufficient amount of sleep. But this is also an aside; for some men need more sleep than
others, and each angler knows his own necessities best. We only promulgate the broad rule,
that without proper rest no one can be in good trim with hand and eye for a pastime that needs
both in a pre-eminent degree. We speak from experience in this too; and have sometimes imagined
that our right hand had lost its cunning till we remembered that we had not been properly rested
the night before.

CHAPTER XII.

REMINISCENCES.

