His boyish nervousness and timidity left him. The strong man emerged and took command. He guided
her to a garden seat, under a drooping lime. She sank upon the seat, quite unable to stand,
beckoning him to stay by her. So he stood near, reluctantly waiting, his heart contracting
at the sight of her.

At last she recovered herself and sat up.

"It was some bad news," she said, looking at him piteously, and holding out her hand again.
"It is too bad of me to greet you like this."

He took her hand, and his own self-control broke down. He raised it to his lips with a stifled cry.

"Don't!--don't!" said Diana, helplessly. "Indeed--there is nothing the matter--I am only foolish.
It is so--so good of you to care." She drew her hand from his, raised it to her brow, and,
drawing a long breath, pushed back the hair from her face. She was like a person struggling
against some torturing restraint, not knowing where to turn for help.

But at the word "care" he pulled himself together. He sat down beside her, and plunged straight
into his declaration. He went at it with the same resolute simplicity that he was accustomed
to throw into his military duty, nor could she stop him in the least. His unalterable affection;
his changed and improved prospects; a staff appointment at home if she accepted him; the Nigerian
post if she refused him--these things he put before her in the natural manly speech of a young
Englishman sorely in love, yet quite incapable of "high flights," It was very evident that
he had pondered what he was to say through the days and nights of his exile; that he was doing
precisely what he had always planned to do, and with his whole heart in the business. She tried
once or twice to interrupt him, but he did not mean to be interrupted, and she was forced to
hear it out.

At the end she gave a little gasp.

"Oh, Hugh!" His name, given him for the first time, fell so forlornly--it was such a breathing
out of trouble and pity and despair--that his heart took another and a final plunge downward.
He had known all through that there was no hope for him; this tone, this aspect settled it.
But she stretched out her hands to him, tenderly--appealing. "Hugh--I shall have to tell you--but
I am ashamed."

He looked at her in silence a moment, then asked her why. The tears rose brimming in her eyes--her
hands still in his.

"Hugh--I--I--have always loved Oliver Marsham--and I--cannot think of any one else. You know
what has happened?"

He saw the sob swelling in her white throat.

"Yes!" he said, passionately. "It is horrible. But you cannot go to him--you cannot marry him.
He was a coward when he should have stood by you. He cannot claim you now."

She withdrew her hands.

"No!" The passion in her voice matched his own. "But I would give the world if he could--and
would!"

There was a pause. Steadily the woman gained upon her own weakness and beat it down. She resumed:

"I must tell you--because--it is the only way--for us two--to be real friends again--and I
want a friend so much. The news of Oliver is--is terrible. The Vicar had just seen Mr. Lankester--who
is staying there. He is nearly blind--and the pain!" Her hand clinched--she threw her head
back. "Oh! I can't speak of it! And it may go on for years. The doctors seem to be all at sea.
They say he ought to recover--but they doubt whether he will. He has lost all heart--and hope--he
can't help himself. He lies there like a log all day--despairing. And, please--what am I doing
here?" She turned upon him impetuously, her cheeks flaming. "They want help--there is no one.
Mrs. Fotheringham hardly ever comes. They think Lady Lucy is in a critical state of health
too. She won't admit it--she does everything as usual. But she is very frail and ill, and it
depresses Oliver. And I am here!--useless--and helpless. Oh, why can't I go?--why can't I go?"
She laid her face upon her arms, on the bench, hiding it from him; but he saw the convulsion
of her whole frame.

Beside a passion so absolute and so piteous he felt, his own claim shrink into nothingness--impossible,
even, to give it voice again. He straightened himself in silence; with an effort of the whole
man, the lover put on the friend.

"But you can go," he said, a little hoarsely, "if you feel like that."

She raised herself suddenly.

"How do I know that he wants me?--how do I know that he would even see me?"

Once more her cheeks were crimson. She had shown him her love unveiled; now he was to see her
doubt--the shame that tormented her. He felt that it was to heal him she had spoken, and he
could do nothing to repay her. He could neither chide her for a quixotic self-sacrifice, which
might never be admitted or allowed; nor protest, on Marsham's behalf, against it, for he knew,
in truth, nothing of the man; least of all could he plead for himself. He could only sit, staring
like a fool, tongue-tied; till Diana, mastering, for his sake, the emotion to which, partly
also for his sake, she had given rein, gradually led the conversation back to safer and cooler
ground. All the little involuntary arts came in by which a woman regains command of herself,
and thereby of her companion. Her hat tired her head; she removed it, and the beautiful hair
underneath, falling into confusion, must be put in its place by skilled instinctive fingers,
every movement answering to a similar self-restraining effort in the mind within. She dried
her tears; she drew closer the black scarf round the shoulders of her white dress; she straightened
the violets at her belt--Muriel's mid-day gift--till he beheld her, white and suffering indeed,
but lovely and composed--queen of herself.

She made him talk of his adventures, and he obeyed her, partly to help her in the struggle
he perceived, partly because in the position--beneath and beyond all hope--to which she had
reduced him, it was the only way by which he could save anything out of the wreck. And she
bravely responded. She could and did lend him enough of her mind to make it worth his while.
A friend should not come home to her from perils of land and sea, and find her ungrateful--a
niggard of sympathy and praise.

So that when Dr. and Mrs. Roughsedge appeared, and Muriel returned with them, Mrs. Roughsedge,
all on edge with anxiety, could make very little of what had--what must have--occurred. Diana,
carved in white wax, but for the sensitive involuntary movements of lip and eyebrow, was listening
to a description of an English embassy sent through the length and breadth of the most recently
conquered province of Nigeria. The embassy took the news of peace and Imperial rule to a country
devastated the year before by the most hideous of slave-raids. The road it marched by was strewn
with the skeletons of slaves--had been so strewn probably for thousands of years. "One night
my horse trod unawares on two skeletons--women--locked in each other's arms," said Hugh; "scores
of others round them. In the evening we camped at a village where every able-bodied male had
been killed the year before."

"Shot?" asked the doctor.

"Oh, dear, no! That would have been to waste ammunition. A limb was hacked off, and they bled
to death."

His mother was looking at the speaker with all her eyes, but she did not hear a word he said.
Was he pale or not?

Diana shuddered.

"And that is stopped--forever?" Her eyes were on the speaker.

"As long as our flag flies there," said the soldier, simply.

Her look kindled. For a moment she was the shadow, the beautiful shadow, of her old Imperialist
self--the proud, disinterested lover of her country.

The doctor shook his head.

"Don't forget the gin, and the gin-traders on the other side, Master Hugh."

"They don't show their noses in the new provinces," said the young man, quietly; "we shall
straighten that out too, in the long run--you'll see."

But Diana had ceased to listen. Mrs. Roughsedge, turning toward her, and with increasing foreboding,
saw, as it were, the cloud of an inward agony, suddenly recalled, creep upon the fleeting brightness
of her look, as the evening shade mounts upon and captures a sunlit hill-side. The mother,
in spite of her native optimism, had never cherished any real hope of her son's success. But
neither had she expected, on the other side, a certainty so immediate and so unqualified. She
saw before her no settled or resigned grief. The Tallyn tragedy had transformed what had been
almost a recovered serenity, a restored and patient equilibrium, into something violent, tumultuous,
unstable--prophesying action. But what--poor child!--could the action be?

       *       *       *       *       *

"Poor Hugh!" said Mrs. Roughsedge to her husband on their return, as she stood beside him,
in his study. Her voice was low, for Hugh had only just gone up-stairs, and the little house
was thinly built.

The doctor rubbed his nose thoughtfully, and then looked round him for a cigarette.

"Yes," he said, slowly; "but he enjoyed his walk home."

"Henry!"

Hugh had walked back to the village with Mrs. Colwood, who had an errand there, and it was
true that he had talked much to her out of earshot of his parents, and had taken a warm farewell
of her at the end.

"Why am I to be 'Henry'-ed?"--inquired the doctor, beginning on his cigarette.

"Because you must know," said his wife, in an energetic whisper, "that Hugh had almost certainly
proposed to Miss Mallory before we arrived, and she had refused him!"

The doctor meditated.

"I still say that Hugh enjoyed his walk," he repeated; "I trust he will have others of the
same kind--with the same person."

"Henry, you are really incorrigible!" cried his wife. "How can you make jokes--on such a thing--with
that girl's face before you!"

"Not at all," said the doctor, protesting. "I am not making jokes, Patricia. But what you women
never will understand is, that it was not a woman but a man that wrote--

     "'If she be not fair for me--
     What care I--'"

"Henry!" and his wife, beside herself, tried to stop his mouth with her hand.

"All right, I won't finish," said the doctor, placidly, disengaging himself. "But let me assure
you, Patricia, whether you like it or not, that that is a male sentiment. I quite agree that
no nice woman could have written it. But, then, Hugh is not a nice woman--nor am I."

"I thought you were so fond of her!" said his wife, reproachfully.

"Miss Mallory? I adore her. But, to tell the truth, Patricia, I want a daughter-in-law--and--and
grand-children," added the doctor, deliberately, stretching out his long limbs to the fire.
"I admit that my remarks may be quite irrelevant and ridiculous--but I repeat that--in spite
of everything--Hugh enjoyed his walk."

       *       *       *       *       *

One October evening, a week later, Lady Lucy sat waiting for Sir James Chide at Tallyn Hall.
Sir James had invited himself to dine and sleep, and Lady Lucy was expecting him in the up-stairs
sitting-room, a medley of French clocks and china figures, where she generally sat now, in
order to be within quick and easy reach of Oliver.

She was reading, or pretending to read, by the fire, listening all the time for the sound of
the carriage outside. Meanwhile, the silence of the immense house oppressed her. It was broken
only by the chiming of a carillon clock in the hall below. The little tune it played, fatuously
gay, teased her more insistently each time she heard it. It must really be removed. She wondered
Oliver had not already complained of it.

A number of household and estate worries oppressed her thoughts. How was she to cope with them?
Capable as she was, "John" had always been there to advise her, in emergency--or Oliver. She
suspected the house-steward of dishonesty. And the agent of the estate had brought her that
morning complaints of the head gamekeeper that were most disquieting. What did they want with
gamekeepers now? Who would ever shoot at Tallyn again? With impatience she felt herself entangled
in the endless machinery of wealth and the pleasures of wealth, so easy to set in motion, and
so difficult to stop, even when all the savor has gone out of it. She was a tired, broken woman,
with an invalid son; and the management of her great property, in which her capacities and
abilities had taken for so long an imperious and instinctive delight, had become a mere burden.
She longed to creep into some quiet place, alone with Oliver, out of reach of this army of
servants and dependents, these impassive and unresponsive faces.

The crunching of the carriage wheels on the gravel outside gave her a start of something like
pleasure. Among the old friends there was no one now she cared so much to see as Sir James
Chide. Sir James had lately left Parliament and politics, and had taken a judgeship. She understood
that he had lost interest in politics after and in consequence of John Ferrier's death; and
she knew, of course, that he had refused the Attorney-Generalship, on the ground of the treatment
meted out to his old friend and chief. During the month of Oliver's second election, moreover,
she had been very conscious of Sir James's hostility to her son. Intercourse between him and
Tallyn had practically ceased.

Since the accident, however, he had been kind--very kind.

The door opened, and Sir James was announced. She greeted him with a tremulous and fluttering
warmth that for a moment embarrassed her visitor, accustomed to the old excess of manner and
dignity, wherewith she kept her little world in awe. He saw, too, that the havoc wrought by
age and grief had gone forward rapidly since he had seen her last.

"I am afraid there is no better news of Oliver?" he said, gravely, as he sat down beside her.

She shook her head.

"We are in despair, Nothing touches the pain but morphia. And he has lost heart himself so
much during the last fortnight."

"You have had any fresh opinion?"

"Yes. The last man told me he still believed the injury was curable, but that Oliver must do
a great deal for himself. And that he seems incapable of doing. It is, of course, the shock
to the nerves, and--the general--disappointment--"

Her voice shook. She stared into the fire.

"You mean--about politics?" said Sir James, after a pause.

"Yes. Whenever I speak cheerfully to him, he asks me what there is to live for. He has been
driven out of politics--by a conspiracy--"

Sir James moved impatiently.

"With health he would soon recover everything," he said, rather shortly.

She made no reply, and her shrunken faded look--as of one with no energy for hope--again roused
his pity.

"Tell me," he said, bending toward her--"I don't ask from idle curiosity--but--has there been
any truth in the rumor of Oliver's engagement to Miss Drake?"

Lady Lucy raised her head sharply. The light came back to her eyes.

"She was engaged to him, and three weeks after his accident she threw him over."

Sir James made a sound of amazement. Lady Lucy went on:

