"Yes, and wish them au revoir," I added, stretching my arms, with the book clasped in my hands,
over my head. Having hitherto idled away my time, I now opened the book at the place where
the lesson was to begin, and started to learn it. It was long and difficult, and, moreover,
I was in the mood when one's thoughts refuse to be arrested by anything at all. Consequently
I made no progress. After our last lesson in history (which always seemed to me a peculiarly
arduous and wearisome subject) the history master had complained to St. Jerome of me because
only two good marks stood to my credit in the register--a very small total. St. Jerome had
then told me that if I failed to gain less than THREE marks at the next lesson I should be
severely punished. The next lesson was now imminent, and I confess that I felt a little nervous.

So absorbed, however, did I become in my reading that the sound of goloshes being taken off
in the ante-room came upon me almost as a shock. I had just time to look up when there appeared
in the doorway the servile and (to me) very disgusting face and form of the master, clad in
a blue frockcoat with brass buttons.

Slowly he set down his hat and books and adjusted the folds of his coat (as though such a thing
were necessary!), and seated himself in his place.

"Well, gentlemen," he said, rubbing his hands, "let us first of all repeat the general contents
of the last lesson: after which I will proceed to narrate the succeeding events of the middle
ages."

This meant "Say over the last lesson." While Woloda was answering the master with the entire
ease and confidence which come of knowing a subject well, I went aimlessly out on to the landing,
and, since I was not allowed to go downstairs, what more natural than that I should involuntarily
turn towards the alcove on the landing? Yet before I had time to establish myself in my usual
coign of vantage behind the door I found myself pounced upon by Mimi--always the cause of my
misfortunes!

"YOU here?" she said, looking severely, first at myself, and then at the maidservants' door,
and then at myself again.

I felt thoroughly guilty, firstly, because I was not in the schoolroom, and secondly, because
I was in a forbidden place. So I remained silent, and, dropping my head, assumed a touching
expression of contrition.

"Indeed, this is TOO bad!" Mimi went on, "What are you doing here?"

Still I said nothing.

"Well, it shall not rest where it is," she added, tapping the banister with her yellow fingers.
"I shall inform the Countess."

It was five minutes to three when I re-entered the schoolroom. The master, as though oblivious
of my presence or absence, was explaining the new lesson to Woloda. When he had finished doing
this, and had put his books together (while Woloda went into the other room to fetch his ticket),
the comforting idea occurred to me that perhaps the whole thing was over now, and that the
master had forgotten me.

But suddenly he turned in my direction with a malicious smile, and said as he rubbed his hands
anew, "I hope you have learnt your lesson?"

"Yes," I replied.

"Would you be so kind, then, as to tell me something about St. Louis' Crusade?" he went on,
balancing himself on his chair and looking gravely at his feet. "Firstly, tell me something
about the reasons which induced the French king to assume the cross" (here he raised his eyebrows
and pointed to the inkstand); "then explain to me the general characteristics of the Crusade"
(here he made a sweeping gesture with his hand, as though to seize hold of something with it);
"and lastly, expound to me the influence of this Crusade upon the European states in general"
(drawing the copy books to the left side of the table) "and upon the French state in particular"
(drawing one of them to the right, and inclining his head in the same direction).

I swallowed a few times, coughed, bent forward, and was silent. Then, taking a pen from the
table, I began to pick it to pieces, yet still said nothing.

"Allow me the pen--I shall want it," said the master. "Well?"

"Louis the-er-Saint was-was-a very good and wise king."

"What?"

"King, He took it into his head to go to Jerusalem, and handed over the reins of government
to his mother."

"What was her name?

"B-b-b-lanka."

"What? Belanka?"

I laughed in a rather forced manner.

"Well, is that all you know?" he asked again, smiling.

I had nothing to lose now, so I began chattering the first thing that came into my head. The
master remained silent as he gathered together the remains of the pen which I had left strewn
about the table, looked gravely past my ear at the wall, and repeated from time to time, "Very
well, very well." Though I was conscious that I knew nothing whatever and was expressing myself
all wrong, I felt much hurt at the fact that he never either corrected or interrupted me.

"What made him think of going to Jerusalem?" he asked at last, repeating some words of my own.

"Because--because--that is to say--"

My confusion was complete, and I relapsed into silence, I felt that, even if this disgusting
history master were to go on putting questions to me, and gazing inquiringly into my face,
for a year, I should never be able to enunciate another syllable. After staring at me for some
three minutes, he suddenly assumed a mournful cast of countenance, and said in an agitated
voice to Woloda (who was just re-entering the room):

"Allow me the register. I will write my remarks."

He opened the book thoughtfully, and in his fine caligraphy marked FIVE for Woloda for diligence,
and the same for good behaviour. Then, resting his pen on the line where my report was to go,
he looked at me and reflected. Suddenly his hand made a decisive movement and, behold, against
my name stood a clearly-marked ONE, with a full stop after it! Another movement and in the
behaviour column there stood another one and another full stop! Quietly closing the book, the
master then rose, and moved towards the door as though unconscious of my look of entreaty,
despair, and reproach.

"Michael Lavionitch!" I said.

"No!" he replied, as though knowing beforehand what I was about to say. "It is impossible for
you to learn in that way. I am not going to earn my money for nothing."

He put on his goloshes and cloak, and then slowly tied a scarf about his neck. To think that
he could care about such trifles after what had just happened to me! To him it was all a mere
stroke of the pen, but to me it meant the direst misfortune.

"Is the lesson over?" asked St. Jerome, entering.

"Yes."

"And was the master pleased with you?"

"Yes."

"How many marks did he give you?"

"Five."

"And to Nicholas?"

I was silent.

"I think four," said Woloda. His idea was to save me for at least today. If punishment there
must be, it need not be awarded while we had guests.

"Voyons, Messieurs!" (St. Jerome was forever saying "Voyons!") "Faites votre toilette, et descendons."

XII. THE KEY

We had hardly descended and greeted our guests when luncheon was announced. Papa was in the
highest of spirits since for some time past he had been winning. He had presented Lubotshka
with a silver tea service, and suddenly remembered, after luncheon, that he had forgotten a
box of bonbons which she was to have too.

"Why send a servant for it? YOU had better go, Koko," he said to me jestingly. "The keys are
in the tray on the table, you know. Take them, and with the largest one open the second drawer
on the right. There you will find the box of bonbons. Bring it here."

"Shall I get you some cigars as well?" said I, knowing that he always smoked after luncheon.

"Yes, do; but don't touch anything else."

I found the keys, and was about to carry out my orders, when I was seized with a desire to
know what the smallest of the keys on the bunch belonged to.

On the table I saw, among many other things, a padlocked portfolio, and at once felt curious
to see if that was what the key fitted. My experiment was crowned with success. The portfolio
opened and disclosed a number of papers. Curiosity so strongly urged me also to ascertain what
those papers contained that the voice of conscience was stilled, and I began to read their
contents. . . .

My childish feeling of unlimited respect for my elders, especially for Papa, was so strong
within me that my intellect involuntarily refused to draw any conclusions from what I had seen.
I felt that Papa was living in a sphere completely apart from, incomprehensible by, and unattainable
for, me, as well as one that was in every way excellent, and that any attempt on my part to
criticise the secrets of his life would constitute something like sacrilege.

For this reason, the discovery which I made from Papa's portfolio left no clear impression
upon my mind, but only a dim consciousness that I had done wrong. I felt ashamed and confused.

The feeling made me eager to shut the portfolio again as quickly as possible, but it seemed
as though on this unlucky day I was destined to experience every possible kind of adversity.
I put the key back into the padlock and turned it round, but not in the right direction. Thinking
that the portfolio was now locked, I pulled at the key and, oh horror! found my hand come away
with only the top half of the key in it! In vain did I try to put the two halves together,
and to extract the portion that was sticking in the padlock. At last I had to resign myself
to the dreadful thought that I had committed a new crime--one which would be discovered to-day
as soon as ever Papa returned to his study! First of all, Mimi's accusation on the staircase,
and then that one mark, and then this key! Nothing worse could happen now. This very evening
I should be assailed successively by Grandmamma (because of Mimi's denunciation), by St. Jerome
(because of the solitary mark), and by Papa (because of the matter of this key)--yes, all in
one evening!

"What on earth is to become of me? What have I done?" I exclaimed as I paced the soft carpet.
"Well," I went on with sudden determination, "what MUST come, MUST--that's all;" and, taking
up the bonbons and the cigars, I ran back to the other part of the house.

The fatalistic formula with which I had concluded (and which was one that I often heard Nicola
utter during my childhood) always produced in me, at the more difficult crises of my life,
a momentarily soothing, beneficial effect. Consequently, when I re-entered the drawing-room,
I was in a rather excited, unnatural mood, yet one that was perfectly cheerful.

XIII. THE TRAITRESS

After luncheon we began to play at round games, in which I took a lively part. While indulging
in "cat and mouse", I happened to cannon rather awkwardly against the Kornakoffs' governess,
who was playing with us, and, stepping on her dress, tore a large hole in it. Seeing that the
girls--particularly Sonetchka--were anything but displeased at the spectacle of the governess
angrily departing to the maidservants' room to have her dress mended, I resolved to procure
them the satisfaction a second time. Accordingly, in pursuance of this amiable resolution,
I waited until my victim returned, and then began to gallop madly round her, until a favourable
moment occurred for once more planting my heel upon her dress and reopening the rent. Sonetchka
and the young princesses had much ado to restrain their laughter, which excited my conceit
the more, but St. Jerome, who had probably divined my tricks, came up to me with the frown
which I could never abide in him, and said that, since I seemed disposed to mischief, he would
have to send me away if I did not moderate my behaviour.

However, I was in the desperate position of a person who, having staked more than he has in
his pocket, and feeling that he can never make up his account, continues to plunge on unlucky
cards--not because he hopes to regain his losses, but because it will not do for him to stop
and consider. So, I merely laughed in an impudent fashion and flung away from my monitor.

After "cat and mouse", another game followed in which the gentlemen sit on one row of chairs
and the ladies on another, and choose each other for partners. The youngest princess always
chose the younger Iwin, Katenka either Woloda or Ilinka, and Sonetchka Seriosha--nor, to my
extreme astonishment, did Sonetchka seem at all embarrassed when her cavalier went and sat
down beside her. On the contrary, she only laughed her sweet, musical laugh, and made a sign
with her head that he had chosen right. Since nobody chose me, I always had the mortification
of finding myself left over, and of hearing them say, "Who has been left out? Oh, Nicolinka.
Well, DO take him, somebody." Consequently, whenever it came to my turn to guess who had chosen
me, I had to go either to my sister or to one of the ugly elder princesses. Sonetchka seemed
so absorbed in Seriosha that in her eyes I clearly existed no longer. I do not quite know why
I called her "the traitress" in my thoughts, since she had never promised to choose me instead
of Seriosha, but, for all that, I felt convinced that she was treating me in a very abominable
fashion. After the game was finished, I actually saw "the traitress" (from whom I nevertheless
could not withdraw my eyes) go with Seriosha and Katenka into a corner, and engage in secret
confabulation. Stealing softly round the piano which masked the conclave, I beheld the following:

Katenka was holding up a pocket-handkerchief by two of its corners, so as to form a screen
for the heads of her two companions. "No, you have lost! You must pay the forfeit!" cried Seriosha
at that moment, and Sonetchka, who was standing in front of him, blushed like a criminal as
she replied, "No, I have NOT lost! HAVE I, Mademoiselle Katherine?" "Well, I must speak the
truth," answered Katenka, "and say that you HAVE lost, my dear." Scarcely had she spoken the
words when Seriosha embraced Sonetchka, and kissed her right on her rosy lips! And Sonetchka
smiled as though it were nothing, but merely something very pleasant!

Horrors! The artful "traitress!"

XIV. THE RETRIBUTION

Instantly, I began to feel a strong contempt for the female sex in general and Sonetchka in
particular. I began to think that there was nothing at all amusing in these games--that they
were only fit for girls, and felt as though I should like to make a great noise, or to do something
of such extraordinary boldness that every one would be forced to admire it. The opportunity
soon arrived. St. Jerome said something to Mimi, and then left the room, I could hear his footsteps
ascending the staircase, and then passing across the schoolroom, and the idea occurred to me
that Mimi must have told him her story about my being found on the landing, and thereupon he
had gone to look at the register. (In those days, it must be remembered, I believed that St.
Jerome's whole aim in life was to annoy me.) Some where I have read that, not infrequently,
children of from twelve to fourteen years of age--that is to say, children just passing from
childhood to adolescence--are addicted to incendiarism, or even to murder. As I look back upon
my childhood, and particularly upon the mood in which I was on that (for myself) most unlucky
day, I can quite understand the possibility of such terrible crimes being committed by children
without any real aim in view--without any real wish to do wrong, but merely out of curiosity
or under the influence of an unconscious necessity for action. There are moments when the human
being sees the future in such lurid colours that he shrinks from fixing his mental eye upon
it, puts a check upon all his intellectual activity, and tries to feel convinced that the future
will never be, and that the past has never been. At such moments--moments when thought does
not shrink from manifestations of will, and the carnal instincts alone constitute the springs
of life--I can understand that want of experience (which is a particularly predisposing factor
in this connection) might very possibly lead a child, aye, without fear or hesitation, but
rather with a smile of curiosity on its face, to set fire to the house in which its parents
and brothers and sisters (beings whom it tenderly loves) are lying asleep. It would be under
the same influence of momentary absence of thought--almost absence of mind--that a peasant
boy of seventeen might catch sight of the edge of a newly-sharpened axe reposing near the bench
on which his aged father was lying asleep, face downwards, and suddenly raise the implement
in order to observe with unconscious curiosity how the blood would come spurting out upon the
floor if he made a wound in the sleeper's neck. It is under the same influence--the same absence
of thought, the same instinctive curiosity--that a man finds delight in standing on the brink
of an abyss and thinking to himself, "How if I were to throw myself down?" or in holding to
his brow a loaded pistol and wondering, "What if I were to pull the trigger?" or in feeling,
when he catches sight of some universally respected personage, that he would like to go up
to him, pull his nose hard, and say, "How do you do, old boy?"

Under the spell, then, of this instinctive agitation and lack of reflection I was moved to
put out my tongue, and to say that I would not move, when St. Jerome came down and told me
that I had behaved so badly that day, as well as done my lessons so ill, that I had no right
to be where I was, and must go upstairs directly.

At first, from astonishment and anger, he could not utter a word.

"C'est bien!" he exclaimed eventually as he darted towards me. "Several times have I promised
to punish you, and you have been saved from it by your Grandmamma, but now I see that nothing
but the cane will teach you obedience, and you shall therefore taste it."

This was said loud enough for every one to hear. The blood rushed to my heart with such vehemence
that I could feel that organ beating violently--could feel the colour rising to my cheeks and
my lips trembling. Probably I looked horrible at that moment, for, avoiding my eye, St. Jerome
stepped forward and caught me by the hand. Hardly feeling his touch, I pulled away my hand
in blind fury, and with all my childish might struck him.

"What are you doing?" said Woloda, who had seen my behaviour, and now approached me in alarm
and astonishment.

"Let me alone!" I exclaimed, the tears flowing fast. "Not a single one of you loves me or understands
how miserable I am! You are all of you odious and disgusting!" I added bluntly, turning to
the company at large.

At this moment St. Jerome--his face pale, but determined--approached me again, and, with a
movement too quick to admit of any defence, seized my hands as with a pair of tongs, and dragged
me away. My head swam with excitement, and I can only remember that, so long as I had strength
to do it, I fought with head and legs; that my nose several times collided with a pair of knees;
that my teeth tore some one's coat; that all around me I could hear the shuffling of feet;
and that I could smell dust and the scent of violets with which St. Jerome used to perfume himself.

Five minutes later the door of the store-room closed behind me.

"Basil," said a triumphant but detestable voice, "bring me the cane."

XV. DREAMS

Could I at that moment have supposed that I should ever live to survive the misfortunes of
that day, or that there would ever come a time when I should be able to look back upon those
misfortunes composedly?

As I sat there thinking over what I had done, I could not imagine what the matter had been
with me. I only felt with despair that I was for ever lost.

At first the most profound stillness reigned around me--at least, so it appeared to me as compared
with the violent internal emotion which I had been experiencing; but by and by I began to distinguish
various sounds. Basil brought something downstairs which he laid upon a chest outside. It sounded
like a broom-stick. Below me I could hear St. Jerome's grumbling voice (probably he was speaking
of me), and then children's voices and laughter and footsteps; until in a few moments everything
seemed to have regained its normal course in the house, as though nobody knew or cared to know
that here was I sitting alone in the dark store-room!

I did not cry, but something lay heavy, like a stone, upon my heart. Ideas and pictures passed
with extraordinary rapidity before my troubled imagination, yet through their fantastic sequence
broke continually the remembrance of the misfortune which had befallen me as I once again plunged
into an interminable labyrinth of conjectures as to the punishment, the fate, and the despair
that were awaiting me. The thought occurred to me that there must be some reason for the general
dislike--even contempt--which I fancied to be felt for me by others. I was firmly convinced
that every one, from Grandmamma down to the coachman Philip, despised me, and found pleasure
in my sufferings. Next an idea struck me that perhaps I was not the son of my father and mother
at all, nor Woloda's brother, but only some unfortunate orphan who had been adopted by them
out of compassion, and this absurd notion not only afforded me a certain melancholy consolation,
but seemed to me quite probable. I found it comforting to think that I was unhappy, not through
my own fault, but because I was fated to be so from my birth, and conceived that my destiny
was very much like poor Karl Ivanitch's.

"Why conceal the secret any longer, now that I have discovered it?" I reflected. "To-morrow
I will go to Papa and say to him, 'It is in vain for you to try and conceal from me the mystery
of my birth. I know it already.' And he will answer me, 'What else could I do, my good fellow?
Sooner or later you would have had to know that you are not my son, but were adopted as such.
Nevertheless, so long as you remain worthy of my love, I will never cast you out.' Then I shall
say, 'Papa, though I have no right to call you by that name, and am now doing so for the last
time, I have always loved you, and shall always retain that love. At the same time, while I
can never forget that you have been my benefactor, I cannot remain longer in your house. Nobody
here loves me, and St. Jerome has wrought my ruin. Either he or I must go forth, since I cannot
answer for myself. I hate the man so that I could do anything--I could even kill him.' Papa
will begin to entreat me, but I shall make a gesture, and say, 'No, no, my friend and benefactor!
We cannot live together. Let me go'--and for the last time I shall embrace him, and say in
French, 'O mon pere, O mon bienfaiteur, donne moi, pour la derniere fois, ta benediction, et
que la volonte de Dieu soit faite!'"

