He then entreated her to remember the inestimable consolation she possessed, in knowing that
Eustace lived and was worthy of her affections, faithful to his vows, to his King, and his
God. He advised her, if possible, to remove with her aunt, Isabel, and Colonel Evellin, and
to place themselves under his protection. If his situation permitted, he advised her to marry
him as the best way of being safe and respectable, to endeavour to procure an honest livelihood
by following some humble occupation, and to forget the station to which their birth entitled
them to aspire. He was almost hopeless of a speedy change of times. He feared the spirit of
the nation was so broken that it would submit to the establishment of the usurping family.
Policy would teach Cromwell to soften the terrors of his administration as soon as he could
found his government on the safer principles of expedience and prescription. He had already
adopted many popular measures; and, in making the power of England formidable abroad, he had
gratified the public-feeling. Though the persecution of individuals, and actions of glaring
oppression and injustice, soon excited discord in peaceable times, and under the government
of a legitimate King, they were so congenial to the nature of tyranny, that people were more
apt to rejoice in their own escape than to animadvert on the sufferings of their neighbours.
Nor would an accumulation of such deeds rouse to arms a nation, that had recently bled so copiously
from the multiplied wounds of civil war. Dreadful calamities had stupified the finer feelings,
while self-interest and a mean anxiety for personal safety absorbed their sensibility for the
distressed. Above all, he regretted to say that an unfavourable impression of the young monarch's
personal qualities had gone abroad; and though the disadvantageous reports might be aggravated
by ill-will, it would be inferred that the person on whom they fastened was by no means blameless.
For all these reasons, Dr. Beaumont feared that the present ostensible form of a republican
government would imperceptibly slide into the restoration of what the laws, institutions, habits,
and character of England required, a limited monarchy in the person of one of Cromwell's family,
should such a one arise, who, without being stained by the atrocious guilt of his progenitor,
should display qualities that would eclipse the legitimate prince. Much, he said, depended
on the personal character of a King of England, who was not, like an Eastern sovereign, shown
from a distant eminence to be worshipped with prostrations, or, like a Grand Monarque, to be
flattered and implicitly obeyed. He ruled over a nation of freemen; he lived in the observation
of his subjects, not as a despot coercing slaves and parasites, but as the administrator of
public justice, and the conservator of the national rights. He could not put up a more salutary
prayer for his country, than that each future Prince (especially in times of great political
turbulence) would remember that he is set like a city upon a hill, and that his whole conduct
is canvassed by a free, inquisitive, and, generally speaking, an intelligent and high-minded
nation, attached to hereditary rule, but indignant at the contamination of the blood-royal.
It was impossible for persons eminent for birth to sin in secret; and one bad action of theirs,
divulged to the public, did more injury than the machinations of the most subtile traitor.
Woe would it be to England, if her liberties were thus made to depend on the mercy and prudence
of those who grasped her sceptre in despite of law, while its rightful owner discovered such
base propensities as made it safer even in an Usurper's hands than in his, who less prized
the inheritance of three kingdoms than the praise of debauchees and the indulgence of depraved
appetites.

Thus fortifying his daughter's mind with the best principles, and then gradually withdrawing
it from the agonizing present to circumstances connected with her future fortunes, Dr. Beaumont
consoled and instructed Constantia. "I am firm and patient, my dearest father," said she. "Your
voice, like that of the angel to Hagar, has pointed out springs of comfort in a frightful desert.
One request I must make. Let me stand by your side at your trial. Perhaps my appearance may
influence your judges. Men who seem to have renounced every feeling of humanity have been induced
to pity orphan wretchedness. Some circumstances may escape your observation that my quick-sighted
fears will seize on; at least I may serve as your notary. These times of woe have often witnessed
female heroism claiming its affinity to the proscribed victims of injustice, and glorying in
partaking their dangers. Thus let me triumph, and, to the last, exult in having such a father."
Dr. Beaumont gazed on her with affection, and acceded to her desires. Like his royal Master,
he had at first resolved to object to the legality of these high courts of justice; but further
consideration made him doubt if the plea was admissible by a Christian, who was required to
submit to the powers that are; and its inexpediency was apparent, by the immediate condemnation
of all who urged it, since, whatever degree of proof their offences admitted, they were infallibly
condemned for contumacy. Being asked, therefore, if he acknowledged the authority of the court,
he lifted up the cap which covered his thin silvered locks, and declared that he submitted
to be tried by the laws of God and his country, though, as he had not been furnished with a
copy of the charges brought against him, he came with no other means of defence than a general
consciousness of inoffensive behaviour.

As Dr. Beaumont spoke he withdrew his arm from the feeble support of his trembling daughter.
A sun-beam fell upon his pale countenance, and irradiated its expression of piety and resignation,
while his clasped hands, and eyes elevated to heaven, bespoke him engrossed by the fervour
of mental devotion. Constantia, silent, trembling, and almost fearing to breathe, contrasted,
by her apprehensiveness, beauty, and elegance, the awful solemnity of her father's aspect.
He was invested with the insignia of his academical honours, and attired in his sacerdotal
habit, which, in its decay, seemed emblematical of the ruined Church for whom he was a confessor.
Meek but dignified, patient but courageous, he looked like one of the pillars of episcopacy,
who, though the beauty of holiness was defaced, and the visible cherubim removed from the sanctuary,
continued to support the tottering edifice, deeming the ruins of Zion a better station than
the gorgeous temple of Baal. Nor did the celebrated classical example of Antigone more forcibly
illustrate the persevering fortitude of passive heroism and enduring love in woman's gentle
bosom, than did the interesting, lovely Constantia. Like the renowned daughter of Sir Thomas
More, "she seemed to have forgotten herself, being ravished with the entire love of her dear
father," and fearful of danger only as it pointed at him. She turned her eyes upon the court
with a boldness unusual to their general expression, to see if in any of their faces she could
trace the lineaments of justice or compassion; but they were soon arrested by recognising,
in the president, the well-remembered face of Major Monthault. The brims of his hat were of
more than ordinary dimensions; his hair was notched into the exact shape prescribed by the
highest standard of puritanical orthodoxy; his band was crimped, and his robes folded with
prim decorum; while his hands demurely rested on the cushion before him, holding a small edition
of the sacred volume, on which he seemed to be meditating in the intervals between the exercise
of his professional duties. But neither the starched sobriety of his aspect, nor his newly
assumed name of Mephibosheth could obliterate her recollection of the daring libertine who
had seduced her Eustace, and attempted her honour. She pointed him out to her father, inquiring
if he might not be challenged as a personal enemy; but Dr. Beaumont wisely thought it more
prudent to avoid a recognition, which would only confirm his enmity by exposing his former
conduct; and, reminding Constantia that as no exceptions of theirs would be attended to, they
must know Monthault only in his present character, he entreated, as her alarm was so visible,
that she would retire, and leave him to the care of Williams.

Dissembling his knowledge of the prisoner, the President showed, by his address to the Court,
that he had adopted the language as well as the habit of a fanatic. He observed that the malignants
could hardly be bound by any specific terms, being full of evasions and subtleties of expression,
by which they ensnared the simplicity of the faithful. He then called on Eusebius Beaumont
to say, unequivocally, whether he did so truly and bona fide submit to the authority of this
Court, as to acknowledge it was legally assembled by the supreme power in the Commonwealth,
namely, His Highness Oliver Cromwell, Protector of the liberties, and General of the armies
of England, Scotland, and Ireland.

Dr. Beaumont answered, that he did acknowledge the supreme power was now lodged in the Protector;
and that, according to the ordinances made by him, the present High Court of Justice possessed
a right to try him. He was then asked if he meant to deny his sending assistance to Charles
Stewart, and praying for a restoration of the ancient system; to which he answered, he admitted
the truth of these accusations; and being in his heart convinced that the former government
of church and state was not only most consonant to the constitution, but also to the prosperity
of the kingdom, he must ever wish and pray that it might be restored. But yet, abhorring all
conspiracies and plots, the only acts of contumacy of which he had been guilty to the existing
powers, were the supplications he offered at the Throne of Grace, and the scanty contributions,
which the purse of penury could ill spare, given to the necessities of those who espoused the
same cause, and whose wants exceeded his own.

The indictment was then read, in which the charges already noticed were dressed out in vituperative
language; but the crimes principally insisted on were, that he had secreted several desperate
and proscribed delinquents in a ruinous mansion which he inhabited for the purpose; and that
by their assistance he had clandestinely conveyed away, destroyed, and murdered, divers good
and faithful citizens. Among these was a godly officer of the commonwealth, Arthur De Vallance,
commonly called Lord Sedley, son and heir to the Earl of Bellingham, whom he was known to have
kept in custody, and who had never been heard of since. To give a tragical effect to this accusation,
the Earl and his Countess, attired in deep mourning, presented themselves in a conspicuous
gallery, and, as if overpowered by the sudden emotions of parental anguish, wrung their hands
and with loud lamentations besought the court to grant them justice.

Dr. Beaumont's astonishment for some moments precluded the possibility of reply, but as his
native integrity never deserted him, he soon recovered sufficient presence of mind to determine
rather to fall a victim to the malice of his foes, than to make any discovery which should
endanger the life of Arthur De Vallance, who having borne arms against Cromwell was become
amenable to the penal ordinances, and would be marked by the Usurper's personal hatred as a
confidential friend changed into a renegado. He soon answered in a firm tone, that, being unable
to divine that such a charge could be brought against him, he must crave a few days grace to
form his reply, and produce evidence which should disprove it. He would, however, observe,
that at the time of the supposed murder, and his concealment of desperadoes, he was a suspected
persecuted man in distressed circumstances, and all his actions were watched with insidious
vigilance. To impute to him a power of restraining a man of Lord Sedley's rank was a futile
charge, disproved by its impossibility. There was a person in court (looking at Morgan) who
knew the hospitality and kindness he had shown to that nobleman; but he was certain the being
did not exist, who could fasten on him the slightest suspicion of his having subsequently practised
against his life.

The counsel for the prosecution answered, that his long confinement had given him sufficient
opportunity of recollecting his misdeeds, and therefore no accusation could take him by surprise.
There could be no occasion to adjourn the court, or longer suspend justice, which thirsted
to seize the sanguinary old hypocrite. The feelings of the bereaved parent should be regarded
(here a loud sobbing was heard from Lady Bellingham), and as the culprit had declared that
there was a person in court who could prove his innocence, they would yield him the advantage
of inverting the general order of the trial, and permit him to call and examine his evidence,
before they discovered the dark machination, by which an illustrious pair lost the son of their
hopes, the only heir to their magnificent fortune.

Dr. Beaumont's strong confidence in his own innocence prevented him from discovering that the
proposal was a snare, intended to give indubitable authority to the evidence of Morgan, who
now pressed forward, stretched out his hand with an air of friendship to the prisoner, and
seemed to rejoice in the opportunity of befriending him. He took the oath, and answered the
questions put to him, by giving a minute and (as far as his coarse mind would permit) a pathetic
description of the care and attention which the Beaumont family showed to the young nobleman,
and of his voluntary continuance with them after his wounds were healed.

When Morgan's examination was over, the counsel for the prosecution addressed the court. "My
Lord President Monthault, and you other My Lords Judges of this honourable tribunal; we all
know that the butcher fatteneth the lamb before he leadeth it to the slaughter-house, and therefore
the care and hospitality pretended to have been shown to the noble person, whose loss we deplore,
establishes nothing positively in the prisoner's favour. I shall prove to you, that Lord Sedley
liberally rewarded him for his entertainment, and that notwithstanding all the peaceable professions
he has this day made, he took great pains to change that Lord's principles, to make him false
to the Commonwealth, and also to engage him in an alliance with his family; failing of which,
and also suspecting that he gave information to His Highness of the plots then carrying on
for restoring tyranny and superstition; he the prisoner was consenting unto, if not aiding
and abetting, the murdering and secreting the aforesaid godly Lord. The time chosen for this
business was immediately after his receiving a large remittance. To these facts, together with
that of the prisoner's concealing a band of desperate malignants, armed with instruments of
destruction, I shall, with leave of the court, proceed to call my evidence."

The payment of several sums of money to Lord Sedley, during his residence at Ribblesdale, and
the cessation of all demand for remittances from the period of his quitting it, were proved
by his tenants; one of whom particularly specified his having sent him a very considerable
sum, raised by mortgage of his principal farm, a few days previous to that fixed on for his
disappearance. Morgan was now re-examined, who acted the part of a reluctant witness, with
too marked partiality for Dr. Beaumont to deceive any who had not been accustomed to the grossest
deceptions of fulsome hypocrisy. Much as he said of his hopes that his good old friend and
neighbour would meet with favour, he took care to confirm every circumstance to his prejudice.
He dwelt on the steadiness of Lord Sedley's principles; the regular communication he had with
him, respecting the views of the royalists; the beauty and allurements of Constantia Beaumont,
and the evident consternation of the family, together with her extreme grief at the time of
Sedley's disappearing. He now hesitated and begged he might be dismissed; but a few threats
of imprisonment restored his volubility, and he anticipated the questions of the counsel by
stating, that at the command of His Highness he had minutely searched the late residence of
the Beaumonts, and at length found a sliding pannel concealing an arched passage, through an
extraordinarily thick wall, which, being excavated in one part, formed a small secret chamber
or closet, concealed among the buttresses, so as not to be visible on the out-side, and lighted
by a small window in the roof; he found, he said, certain proof of its having been recently
inhabited, and on removing the floor he discovered, with several arms and implements, the dress
of a parliamentary officer; the same which he had seen Lord Sedley wear. Nor was this the only
corroborative proof of his having been assassinated in that dark recess, for, on digging lower,
they found several bones, which he feared were part of the remains of that unfortunate gentleman.

The incongruity of finding the dress sufficiently perfect to discover its identity, while the
body of Sedley was so dismembered by time, that only a few disjointed bones could be discovered,
might have convinced the court, that they could not, without incurring great odium, find Dr.
Beaumont guilty of murder. But, indeed, they had not time to reflect on the inadmissibility
of such vague circumstances in a criminal charge. Lady Bellingham renewed her screams, to give
effect, it was presumed, to the workings of compassion for a fond mother, wounded to agony
by such a horrid narration. But her screams continued too long, and were too piercing, to proceed
from feigned distress, and the intermingled cries of "He is coming again! Save me!" directed
the eyes of all to a figure, who was now perceived slowly making his way through the crowd
below the bar. It was the aged Evellin advancing with feeble steps; his majestic form clad
in a loose, black, serge gown, and his iron-grey hair and beard waving neglected over his breast
and shoulders; his arched brows were still more elevated by disdain, while, glancing his eyes
from his screaming sister and her trembling husband, he fixed their unextinguished lustre on
the President. "I am an evidence for Eusebius Beaumont," said he; "tender me the oath. My name
is Allan Neville, and I require to be confronted with Walter De Vallance, calling himself Earl
of Bellingham. Let him not escape," continued he, lifting his staff as it were an ensign of
authority. "I accuse him of perfidy, calumny, fraud, usurpation, and murder."

Bellingham had more self-command than his guilty consort. His long acquaintance with the terrors
of guilt made him ever on his guard. He knew of the preservation of Allan Neville during the
civil wars, but he hoped the death of his son might have terminated his days, or irrecoverably
clouded his reason; yet he was ever in apprehension of having his title to greatness disproved
by a living claimant, though he knew all written documents to confirm his treachery had been
destroyed. He had resolved, if ever this man of many woes should burst upon him, to abide by
the criminal's last resource, denial of his identity, and solemn protestations of his own innocence:
and though the abode of Neville had been so carefully concealed, that no trace of his residence
in London had been discovered, even by the vigilance of Oliverian spies, the terrors to which
the wretched Bellingham was a constant prey gave him a degree of adroitness in a moment of
surprise. Though a coward, when only in the presence of God and his own conscience, the adhesive
habits of a practised courtier, gave him effrontery and address when endeavouring to propitiate
mankind in his favour.

"My Lord President," said he, "I must request that this unhappy maniac may be taken into custody.
The sight is too dreadful to the weakened spirits of Lady Bellingham. Being a distant kinsman,
we long supported him by our bounty; but his disordered imagination has persuaded him that
he is the brother of my countess--that unfortunate and guilty man has been long since numbered
with the dead."

Neville answered with stern composure, "Stand forth, David Williams; identify thy true Lord,
the son of thy old master, to whom thou hast adhered in all his calamities." Williams instantly
complied with the requisition, and Neville, then turning his indignant eyes on the horror-struct
Bellingham, exclaimed--"I trusted thee with my life, my fortune, and my honour--I supplicated
thy aid--I depended on thy integrity, on our alliance in blood, on a friendship formed in our
boy-hood, on a thousand instances of kindness which I have shown thee.--Thou stolest from me
a pearl, rich as an empire, threwest at me the worthless shell, and then badest thy plundered
brother be grateful for thy mercy. Mine, Walter, is not the voice of a raving mendicant, it
sounds not in thine ears as the ingratitude of an eleemosynary pensioner, but as the groan
of a perturbed spirit, risen from the grave to demand vengeance."

"Hear me," continued he, as Bellingham hid his face with his cloak. "Am not I the friend of
thy youth, the brother of thy wife, the owner of thy lands, castles, of all that thou hast,
except that wretched body.--Where is my son? My Eustace; condemned by thee in cold blood at
Pembroke, for being faithful to the King who ennobled thee, and was then betrayed by thy treasons!
Mark, traitor; at the time that thou unpitying sawest the heir of the greatness thou hast long
usurped walk to execution, this innocent man, whom thou art now persecuting, preserved the
life of thy only child. And dost thou reproach me with the calamities thou hast brought upon
me? Remember what I was, before thy avarice and ambition cancelled the ties of blood and gratitude,
crushed me to the earth, and plumed thy borrowed pomp with the wings of my lineal greatness.
I am now a lame, old, destitute Loyalist; yet, for ten thousand worlds, I would not cease to
be the thing I am, if the alternative must be to become what thou art; a meteor, born in the
concussion of the elements; a timorous slave of power, scared into the commission of any action
which may prolong a life, miserable in its continuance, tremendous in its close."

He now turned to the judges, who were gazing on him in silent consternation. "Are you," said
he, "administrators of the new code of criminal justice, or sworn extirpators of inconvenient
rectitude. You see in me the bloody malignant, whom Beaumont cherished for years in the secret
chamber. Have I physical strength to assassinate a vigorous youth? This arm was rendered useless
at the battle of Marston-Moor; these knees were enfeebled by infirmity, resulting from the
hardships I endured at the siege of Pontefract-Castle. Thus maimed and disabled, I was removed
from a cave where I was hid by my kind comrades on a wain, concealed under rubbish and fed
by my daughter, and by that firm friend, first in a sepulchre, and then among the ruins that
sheltered his oppressed family. To justify his innocence, I commit my long painfully-preserved
life to your clemency. Condemn me for what I have done for the King, to whom my heart is still
faithful; bow my hoary locks to the scaffold; cut off the useless trunk which now only serves
to bear the unblemished insignia of the true Earls of Bellingham. I suffer worse than death
by looking on the traitor you cherish in your bosom. But before you condemn me, mark my words--Young
De Vallance lives--he is beyond your power; he is a firm royalist, and ready, like myself,
to die for his King. Hear me yet again. If you determine to bring on your cause the odium of
deeming an aged cripple dangerous, let my execution be private; for no pomp of death can quail
my courage. On the scaffold I shall proclaim my attachment to the Sovereign, who bestowed my
birth-right on that viper--the betrayer of us both. But spare Eusebius Beaumont, the minister
of good to friend and foe. Keep him alive to be your beadsman, till you cease to provoke heaven
by injustice and rebellion."

The cry of "Let us seek the Lord," was immediately vociferated by the members of the mock tribunal.
The President ordered Neville to be taken into custody. "There needs no rush of marshals-men,"
said he, "to effect your purpose; a child may guard me to my dungeon, and a twine confine me
in it. But since I have proved the innocence of Beaumont, give him the liberty I willingly resign."

In these times of pretended freedom, a court of justice assembled to try state-criminals was
nothing better than a clumsy engine of destruction, moved at the pleasure of the Protector.
Condemnation and acquittal depended not on the facts which were disclosed at the trial, but
on the pre-disposition of Cromwell, to whom (as was the usual interpretation of the phrase
of seeking the Lord) the President immediately reported the appearance of Neville, his singular
accusation of Lord Bellingham, his assertion of the existence of young De Vallance, and also
of his change of principles. He suggested the impossibility of convicting Dr. Beaumont of murder;
and though his concealing a royalist was now proved, the age, debility, and affinity of Neville,
would make a strict execution of the penal ordinances, cruelty instead of justice; and throw
an odium on His Highness's administration. Dr. Beaumont appeared to be an inoffensive, quiet
character; as to Neville, though a furious, desperate delinquent, his infirmities made him
insignificant, and death would probably soon relieve the state from his machinations.

At this time Cromwell courted popularity; he wished to engage honourable and eminent persons
to support his government, and he thought an indisputable reputation for liberality and impartiality
would expedite his ultimate projects. He had engaged some respectable characters in his service;
and the description his emissaries gave him of Neville and Beaumont, showed him the impolicy
of publickly sacrificing such victims for state-offences. He affected to think it was possible
he might attach them to his interests, and declared he never could fear a disabled soldier
and sequestered parson, but that he was even ready to vindicate the rights of a Loyalist, who
had been injured by the partiality of the late tyrant, and thus prove his own impartial justice,
while he transferred deserved odium on the memory of him who was called the Royal martyr. Monthault
pleaded warmly for the Beaumonts, but not with disinterested earnestness. The appearance of
Constantia in court revived the recollection of his former designs on her person, and as the
acknowledged death of Eustace had removed what he supposed the chief barrier to his wishes,
he deemed his suit might not be unsuccessfully urged, especially if he assumed the character
of a mediator between her father and the government. He willingly obeyed Cromwell's order to
adjourn the court to an indefinite time, till it could be ascertained if the prisoners would
purchase prosperity by a change of principle, and he resolved to employ the interim in prosecuting
his own designs.

CHAP. XXIV.

    None but the guilty are long and completely miserable.

                                                 Goldsmith.

The convulsions which seized Lady Bellingham, at again beholding what she still supposed was
the apparition of her brother, had a speedy and fatal termination. The apparent reconciliation
between herself and her lord had been effected for the purpose of revenge. Their enmity was
the interminable feud of co-partners in iniquity, the hatred which ever exists between the
contriver and the executor of horrible enormities. Their mutual recriminations and accusations
were suspended; their aversion was made to look like grief, and they walked together into the
court, as affectionate parents to prosecute the supposed murderer of their only child. But
the sympathy which softens affliction, and even soothes despair, was here unknown. Lady Bellingham's
false views of religion had, indeed, so far skinned over the wounds of her ulcerated conscience,
as to produce a stupefaction, which might last as long as health and prosperity continued.
But when, what she conceived to be a supernatural visitation, had terrified her into a dangerous
indisposition; the anchor of absolute election trembled in her grasp, and her bodily weakness
was rapidly increased by the wild agonies a soul roused to a sense of its danger, when the
bridegroom called and the lamp of faith, unsupplied with good works, was extinguished. Her
troubled spirit saw nothing but darkness in its future prospects, while, with a dying voice,
she continued imploring her physicians to save her life, and wondering why this judgment was
fallen upon her.

The most illiterate and presumptuous of the fanatical preachers crowded round her bed, and
by the canting verbiage of delusion strove to revive the raptures of enthusiasm. Not one had
the honesty to tell her that the figure which so appalled her, was her living brother. They
feared the assurance of his existence acting upon her present terrors might induce her to do
an act of justice, and to make an effectual effort to restore him to his ancient rights. They
were equally silent as to the safety of her son, and careful to keep her husband out of her
apartment. It was their aim to prevail upon her to bequeathe her large possessions to promote
the interests of their party. With the spirit of the false prophets of old, they sounded in
her ears, "The temple of the Lord." They reminded her of her prayers, alms, mortifications,
and zeal for the good cause. They required her to recollect the time and circumstances of her
conversion; the pangs she then suffered; her subsequent experiences and convictions of having
received saving grace. They proceeded, as they termed it, to buffet Satan with prayers, while
with impassioned hymns they endeavoured to awaken in the trembling sinner, the raptures of
divine love. All sense of contrition for past offences, all disposition to be reconciled to
her lord was prevented by their assurances of her safety, and their prayers for his conversion,
which ran in the style of craving that he might no longer halt between two opinions, but renouncing
the fears of the carnal man be perfected in faith and love. Every Scripture narrative, which,
by falsifying some circumstances, could be made to answer their purpose, was presented to her
remembrance. The murder, adultery, and acceptance of David; the liberality of Solomon to the
church; the preservation of Rahab the harlot from the general massacre of her people, on account
of her saving faith; the supposed profligacy of Magdalen's early life, atoned for by her sitting
passive at the feet of her Lord.--All these instances were produced to prove the false and
scandalous tenet, that a course of sin was a better preparative to conversion than a life of
comparative innocence. Arguments were bandied from tongue to tongue; each one cavilled at the
assertions of the other, yet all united in the purpose of pacifying an alarmed conscience,
and changing despair into ill-founded confidence. The groans of Lady Bellingham, the consternation
of her attendants, the fierce disputes of her ghostly assistants, occasionally suspended by
ejaculations and hymns, exhibited a scene of distracting confusion, in which it would have
been impossible for the firmest mind to have preserved its recollection. Lady Bellingham was
soon induced to say that she knew she had once been in a state of grace, and this acknowledgement
was welcomed as her pass-port to heaven[1]. She was informed that her salvation was unalienable;
that grace could neither be resisted nor forfeited, and that though the saints might appear
to sin, yet their offences were not imputable to them.

This pious conflict (for in an age when fanaticism and hypocrisy were misnamed religion, these
solemn mockeries passed for charitable assistance to the dying,) was interrupted by the presence
of Monthault, now become the favourite and confidant of a chief leader of the fanatical party.
This renegade-Loyalist had served Cromwell with conspicuous bravery in the Irish wars, and
once, when a division of the army was thrown into great danger, by the retreat of the forlorn
hope, before it had accomplished its purpose, he rushed forward, killed the commanding officer
with his own hand, and seizing the colours, led them back, undismayed, by a grove of pikes
and a shower of missile weapons. With desperate but successful valour he carried the redoubt
and escaped with life. All this passed under the immediate observation of Cromwell, whose retentive
memory never forgot any signal action, and whose discriminating policy generally placed the
man who performed it in a situation suited to his character. He soon found Monthault to be
as perfidious and unprincipled as he was daring and ready to undertake any office which would
gratify his passions, which (being now past the heyday of youth) were diverted from licentious
indulgence by the more substantial enjoyments of avarice and ambition.

At this time Cromwell was secretly panting to add the name and paraphernalia of a King to the
authority which he actually exercised. The fanatics, whom he had so long courted, were the
most active opponents of this project. The other sectaries had been long convinced, by experience,
that their views of republican felicity and perfection were illusory. The respectable dissenters
always professed themselves friends of a limited monarchy; many staunch royalists thought the
renewal of kingly power would gradually turn the public eye on their exiled Prince; and some
selfish ones would have been content with such an approach to the old order of things as would
give them back their sequestered estates. Some parties would be brought over by seeming to
fall in with their views, others cajoled by bribing their leaders, but the levellers and fanatics
were invincible. They had been Cromwell's agents in subduing his enemies, and a consciousness
of their power made them unmanageable; they were determined on owning no King but Jesus, and
on thinking the regal title, when assumed by man, the mark of the beast and the seal of reprobation
to its supporters. "The Protector's son-in-law, Fleetwood, kneeled and prayed publickly, that
the Lord might spit in his face if the unrighteous mammon tempted him into this sin; and his
brother Desborough anathematized him, and vowed to devote his own sword to Charles Stewart
sooner than to him, if he persevered in longing for the forbidden spoil." Lambert, who was
in the entire confidence of these two, had seduced the affections of the army; Cromwell, therefore,
had a difficult game to play. His passionate desire of royalty combated those secret fears
that arose from a mysterious warning which he received when he first meditated on the designs
afterwards realized by his lucky and unprincipled ambition. A vision, or day-dream, impressed
his enthusiastic imagination, detailing the steps by which he was to rise, and assuring him,
"that he should be the greatest man in England, and near being King." Yet, though this seemed
to warn him of an impassable bound to his greatness, the pageant of royalty which he had so
often vilified and derided, on a close view appeared so irresistible, that he became enchanted
with its fascinations, till, in aiming at the decorations of power, he nearly sacrificed the
substance.

At this juncture the daring character and versatility of Monthault marked him out to the Protector
as a proper instrument to negotiate with Lambert, whose talents were far more dangerous than
the fanaticism of Fleetwood or Desborough's virulence. It was plain that though Monthault wore
the enlarged phylacteries and sanctified demeanour of the sect he had lately adopted, he was
more a hypocrite than an enthusiast. It is well known, that Cromwell found means to discover
every private incident in the lives of his agents, and thus penetrated into all their views.
While pleading for the imprisoned Beaumonts, the Protector read the soul of the former lover
of Constantia, now known to be nearly allied to the true stock of the house of Bellingham.
Cromwell therefore took occasion to commend the filial piety and courage which he heard that
this young lady had exemplified; and declared himself resolved, not only to show Dr. Beaumont
favour, but also to consider the case of Neville; intimating, that he looked on an hereditary
and uncontaminated nobility as the strongest link between the people and the government; and
from this acknowledgment he took occasion to glance at the benefit of a partial restoration
of old usages, as most likely to unite all parties, and heal the wounds of the three kingdoms.
The stress laid on the last word, (the use of which had been for some time interdicted,) shewed
Monthault what was expected from him, and he left the presence, persuaded that if he would
assist to gird the austere brows of the Usurper with the kingly diadem, the hand of his mistress,
and a large portion of the Bellingham property, if not its reversionary honours, would be his
reward.

It was with a further view of securing this prize that Monthault visited the dying Lady Bellingham,
to whom their party-connexions gave him free access. Pretending he had received a special revelation,
which he must impart to her alone, he dismissed the ministers, and assured her of the actual
existence of her brother, whose pardon her again-alarmed conscience seemed most anxious to
secure, even at the price of relinquishing to him those possessions which her increasing weakness
told her she could not long retain. Monthault assured her it would be greatly for the benefit
of her soul, if she would sign a deed bequeathing to Allan Neville the inheritance of their
ancestors; and produced a prepared instrument, which Lady Bellingham was not in a state to
read, or indeed to listen to its recital. Relying on the veracity of one whom she considered
as a saint upon earth, and catching eagerly at every thing which would allay those inward terrors
that had been rather benumbed than pacified, Lady Bellingham was induced to consent, and the
ministers were re-introduced to certify her being in a sound mind and to witness the execution
of a deed, which they trusted was to promote the good cause, but which in reality bequeathed
the Bellingham estate, after the demise of Allan Neville, to Constantia Beaumont, provided
she consented to marry Monthault. Thus cheated and bewildered in her last moments by those
whom she believed to be endowed with super-human perfections, this wretched woman terminated
her miserable and guilty life.

Monthault's next care was, to discover if his apparent reformation of manners could so far
impose on the simplicity and candour of the Beaumonts as to make them strain the principle
of Christian forgiveness, and receive him as a friend. They were still in prison, but the Protector
had given orders, that they should be provided with handsome apartments, and every comfort
compatible with confinement at the public expence. But though Monthault took on himself the
merit of this lenient treatment, the prejudices of the whole family against him formed an insuperable
bar to his designs. His change of conduct was too pointedly obtrusive; his piety and penance
too ostentatious to pass on a man who was thoroughly conversant with the marks of genuine repentance.
Dr. Beaumont did not approve of an elaborate and unnecessary disclosure of the secret enormities
of his early life, which seemed to him more like the wantonness of a depraved imagination wallowing
in its former abominations, than penitence shrinking, with horror, from its recollected transgressions.
But when Monthault proceeded to talk of his present sinless rectitude, certainty of acceptance,
rapturous exercises, and experiences of future beatification, (the common cant of those times,)
the sound divine saw the once audacious sinner covering his adhesive wickedness with the Pharisee's
cloak, exchanging libertinism for spiritual pride, and the excesses of debauchery for ambition
and malevolence. Though no one was more adverse than Dr. Beaumont from colouring gross sins
with the name of amiable frailties, he thought Monthault more horrible with his Scripture-appellative
and precise habits, than when as a drunken cavalier he toasted the King and the Church, while
he disgraced the one by his rapine, and the other by his profaneness.

Monthault was equally unsuccessful with Constantia. In vain did he assure her that the awakening
change in his soul had been expedited by his yearnings after her. She coldly told him, she
hoped for his sake the reformation was real. He assured her he had disposed the Protector to
befriend her relations. She thanked the Protector's justice, and relapsed into silence. He
spoke of the identity of her uncle as being indisputable, and that he was likely soon to be
removed from a prison to an earldom. She answered, that would be miraculous, but no irradiation
of her countenance implied her belief that such an event was probable. He inquired if her cousin
Isabel was still devoted to Sedley. Constantia could here speak with energy, and replied, "She
is." Monthault reminded her, that whatever became of his father, he was necessarily proscribed;
having violated the bond of private friendship, as well as of public trust, with the Protector.
Constantia answered, that Isabel saw nothing infamous in banishment or poverty, but much in
breaking her early vows to a man whose misfortunes were his praise. "But," replied Monthault,
"your early vows have been dissolved by death; and celibacy is one of the popish snares of
Satan. Marriage was divinely appointed, and it is sinful to neglect the godly ordinance." "To
marry with an unconsenting heart is more so," replied Constantia; "I was betrothed to Eustace
Evellin, and living or dead, to him will I ever be faithful. His genuine integrity, his frank
affectionate disposition won all my heart; and since I have lost him, I live only to the claims
of filial duty and sisterly affection. I have been long familiarized with fear and sorrow,
but hope and joy can only visit me in his form."

Monthault told her, that this persevering regret was a mark of her being in an unsanctified
rebellious state. He quoted many texts to prove that the saints would eventually inherit the
earth; declaring that the wonderful success which attended Cromwell, first pointed him out
as an instrument of Providence, designed for an especial purpose. Constantia expressed her
belief that he was; but silenced Monthault's intended allusions to a millennial state of felicity
under his government, by declaring her conviction that he was the sword of vengeance, rather
than the renovating sun of mercy.

Monthault withdrew sullen and offended, planning schemes of vengeance, all pointed at Arthur
de Vallance, whose retreat he determined to discover. He questioned the keeper of the prison,
who had access to the Beaumonts, and was by him directed to Jobson. His talkative simplicity,
and the danger that would result from his being sifted by Cromwell's spies, had obliged them
to dispense with the services of the faithful trooper, who now earned his bread by manual labour,
and only came occasionally to inquire after their health. Though care was taken to represent
him as a porter occasionally employed, the jailor suspected he had been an old servant. Monthault
immediately recollected him as attached to Eustace a little before their separation at Dartmoor,
and recommended himself to the affectionate creature, by recognising him as one who leaped
with him into the moat, and climbed the wall at his side, when Prince Rupert stormed Bristol.
Taking him apart, he avowed himself to be a stanch royalist, watching every opportunity to
serve a cause he still wore at his heart. He declared that he accepted the office of a judge
at Dr. Beaumont's trial, with a resolution of saving him; he praised his firm demeanour, the
beauty of Constantia, the goodness of Isabel, and the noble self-devotedness of Neville; assuring
Jobson, that he was most sedulous in employing the interest he possessed with the Protector
to the advantage of this family. But he lamented that there existed one obstacle to Neville's
becoming Earl of Bellingham: the Protector's betrayed confidence required a victim, and Arthur
de Vallance must be given up to his vengeance.

The honest countenance of Jobson fell at this information. "Ah, worthy sir," said he, "there
is no washing the black-a-moor white; Old Noll will continue Old Noll, dress him up how you
will. There's no putting a King's heart into a scoundrel's body; and a tailor never yet made
more than the clothes of a gentleman. I say, the man that can't forgive a brave young gentleman,
never ought to wear the crown of England. You had half persuaded me to forget the true King
beyond sea, and to think, as this ruler would do justice, we might go on as we are, but when
you talk about harping on old grievances, and taking vengeance for private fallings-out, I
say, though Old Noll may do for a Lord-Protector, Kings must never have any enemies but the
enemies of their country."

Monthault, seeming to enter into his feelings, uttered many encomiums on young De Vallance,
whom he said he really thought one of the finest gentlemen in England. "Aye, in England now,
I grant you," returned Jobson; "but there is another before him, Mr. Eustace Evellin; we used
to call him the true Lord Sedley, for the other is but a make-believe. Very good-humoured and
generous, and fair-spoken I allow; but the right lord, O! he has an eye like a hawk, and so
open and daring, and spirited--I wish, noble Sir, you had seen him."

Monthault affected to brush a tear from his eye, lamenting that an interview was now impossible.
Jobson had an inveterate antipathy to giving any one pain, except in the field of battle. He
caught Monthault by his cloak, pressed him to be secret, and whispered he might have that pleasure
before he died. "Mum," said he, "for your life; Mr. Eustace is alive and merry, and only waits
for the King's coming over to be among us."

Monthault vowed secresy, and readily drew from Jobson all he knew respecting the preservation
and subsequent history of the heir of Neville. Fortunately, he had never been intrusted with
the place of their retreat, and could only say, that he and De Vallance were somewhere very
safe, and ready to drub Old Noll into better manners than authorizing the shooting of men in
cold blood.

Monthault then informed Jobson, that he possessed a large fortune, and secretly devoted ample
remittances to the service of the King, and the most eminent Loyalists. As the state now liberally
supported the prisoners, the exiles had the first claim on his purse. Unintentionally he feared,
he had been of great disservice to Eustace, and therefore justice, as well as humanity and
admiration, pointed him out as the first person whom he ought to assist. He would most willingly
send Jobson with a sum of money to these illustrious friends, and he entreated him to discover
where they had taken shelter, and say he was commissioned to supply their wants. But as he
was ever attentive to the rule of doing good in secret, his own name was, on no account, to
be divulged, nor would he press Jobson to inform him where the fugitives resided. The language
of loyalty, unostentatious generosity, and warm attachment to Eustace, was, to Jobson, a sure
pledge of the honour and sincerity of Monthault. He readily promised to get the whole secret
out of Mrs. Isabel, and discover none of his intentions. "I see, noble sir," continued he,
"you are a true gentleman, and know, that a gentleman like yourself hates to be thought poor,
and had rather starve than have money given him; whereas we poor men never care how much we
get from our betters. But trust me for managing the business cleverly."

Happily for the exiles, Jobson was equally deficient in finesse and secrecy. The first question
he put to Isabel respecting the place of their retreat, discovered that he had a mysterious
reason for wishing to be informed, and she soon drew from him that the benevolent unknown was
a tall, solemn gentleman, who turned up the whites of his eyes, and was dressed like a round-head,
though a stanch Loyalist in his heart. This description, so applicable to Monthault, excited
her liveliest terrors. It was impossible to convince Jobson, that a man who talked so kindly
could have any insidious design; and thinking it best not to combat this delusion, she thought
it expedient to misdirect the wily traitor, and observed, that the inhabitants of the mountainous
parts of Cumberland, where she and her father had so long lived, were well affected to the
King, and disposed to shelter and protect her brother. From the manner in which Jobson communicated
this intelligence, Monthault was convinced that Isabel had penetrated into his designs; and
he resolved to suspend his machinations till he could extort, by terror, what intrigue had
failed to procure.

When Isabel communicated this intelligence to her friends, their apprehensions of some fatal
snare which might blast all their hopes, determined them to send the faithful and discreet
Williams to the exiles, advising them of Cromwell's designs to get them into his power, and
entreating them immediately to quit their present abode. But whither to point for a safe retreat
was the difficulty, since at that time this extraordinary man seemed to extend the scorpion
fangs of his tyranny over the continent, as well as the British dominions. He had, at every
court, not only an accredited minister, but a subordinate host of spies liberally paid, who
gave him an account of every stranger of distinction that sought a refuge from his cruelty,
and contrived also, by false accusations or threats to the affrighted sovereigns, to have the
victims he had marked for destruction delivered into his power. Cromwell had formerly made
a close league with the Queen of Sweden, between whose successor and his neighbour the King
of Denmark, a furious contest had commenced. As all hope of serving his native Prince was for
the present suspended, Neville advised his son to draw his sword for the royal Dane, and Williams
was charged with many affectionate remembrances. "Tell my son," said he, "never to disgrace
the name, to which, at hazard of my life, I have proved his title." Constance whispered a tender
assurance that the tidings of his preservation had reconciled her to life. "Yet tell my Eustace,"
said she, "that though time and sorrow have so changed the face he used to admire, that he
would now hardly know his Constance, they have improved the heart, which neither calumny, nor
suspence, nor despair, could alienate from its only love." Isabel, too, had a brief encouraging
remembrance for her lover: "Tell my De Vallance," said she, "I live for him and for happier
times. Bid him remember me in the hour of peril and the moment of temptation; assure him I
count the years of our separation, and endure my present sorrows in the confidence that they
will serve for sweet discourses in the time to come." The message of Dr. Beaumont was pious
and prudential.--He rejoiced that an opportunity was afforded them of serving a Protestant
King, and he advised them, if their successful services allowed them an honourable establishment
in Denmark, to withdraw their views, though not their love or their prayers, from England.

Charged with these endearing recollections Williams departed, but on his arrival at Jersey
found the fugitives had long left the island. Their protectress was dead, and her husband had
removed to the South of France. Dr. Lloyd was well remembered for his medical skill, and his
pupils for their correct manners and exemplary friendship. A lady, daughter of one of the first
people in St. Helier, had formed a strong attachment to one of the gentlemen, and as she left
the island about the time they did, it was supposed a marriage had been solemnized. Williams
durst not be very minute in his inquiries; he gathered however that the place of their retreat
could not be discovered, though the friends of the lady had taken every measure to regain her.

This intelligence greatly increased the dejection of Constantia, and almost clouded the sanguine
mind of Isabel. "Has mutability," she would often say, "entirely usurped the earth? No. Inanimate
nature is not changed; the sun-beams steal through these grated windows at the same hour this
year as they did last. Summer and winter, day and night, return at stated periods; the animal
organs present the same objects, and excite the usual sensations; nor are my moral feelings
altered; truth and honour continue to delight me; vice and falsehood are as odious to my soul
as if good men still triumphed, and guilt held its alliance with infamy. Yet are not subjects
transformed into traitors and rebels; lovers forsworn; do not Christians renounce their baptism
and abjure their faith; and is not friendship become a cloak to conceal the informer and assassin?
Whom shall we acquit of inconstancy, if either Eustace or De Vallance are false? How shall
we depicture fidelity and honour if they dwell not in the open front of heroic candour, or
the mild suavity of undeviating rectitude? Away!--the report of Williams is a gossip's tale,
forged to explain a mystery of their own forming. Constance, I shall live to arrange your jewels
and fold your robe, when you walk at the coronation as Countess of Bellingham, and you shall
be sponsor to my little Arthur. At least I will cherish these day-dreams, till I know Cromwell
has done a disinterested generous action; I will then resign you to Monthault, and employ myself
in clear-starching and crimping bands for the conventicle."

Thus rallying her own spirits, and endeavouring to animate the hopes of others, Isabel contrived
to lighten the burden of voluntary captivity, as she had used to alleviate the hardships of
poverty. Her mind, equally firm and innocent, feared nothing but the reproaches of her conscience
and the despair of her father. Happy in the resources of an active disposition, she soon convinced
Constantia that even confinement does not proscribe utility. While Dr. Beaumont administered
to the spiritual wants of his fellow-prisoners, Isabel contrived to promote their comforts,
often with the labours of her hand, always by the un-failing cordial of her hilarity, and sometimes
with her slender purse, cheerfully abridging her own wants to supply the need of others. Nor
was she wholly disinterested in this conduct; she found it the best method of diverting anxiety
and suppressing doubt; of resisting that misanthropy which a long continuance of adversity
is apt to engender in the tenderest hearts; and of preserving those social feelings of general
good-will, which, to austere dispositions, render even prosperity distasteful.

    [1] Many of these circumstances are copied from the death of
    Cromwell.

CHAP. XXV.

    "See Cromwell damn'd to everlasting fame."

                                                 Pope.

It was at this period that Cromwell underwent that memorable struggle between his ambition
and his fears, which ultimately preserved the monarchy of England in the line of legitimate
descent. He tampered with all parties, and found none hearty in his cause: the best-disposed
to his interests were only passive; but his enemies were implacable. The popularity of a pamphlet
recommending his assassination upon principle, and declaring that the perpetrator of the deed
would deserve the favour of God and man, destroyed every vestige of his comfort. "He read it,
and was never seen to smile more." With late repentance for his vanity, which prompted him
to excite such furious opposition, he pushed from him the crown he had courted, when offered
by his creatures; but he did it with an affectation of disdain and self-command, that ill accorded
with his former intrigues to obtain it. All his anxiety was now directed to the preservation
of his joyless life. He had long worn light armour under his clothes, and carried pistols in
his pockets. He seldom lay twice in the same chamber, or informed any one which apartment he
meant to select. He travelled with extreme rapidity, attended by numerous guards, and never
returned by the way he went. Yet no sooner was one conspiracy detected, than another was formed;
the fanatics were irreconcileable, and the most worthy and eminent among the dissenters determined
on his overthrow. His old military comrades, Fairfax and Waller, were bent to destroy him.
His treasury was drained by the rapacity of his numerous spies; and as fines and exactions
had been strained to the utmost, he had no means of replenishing it but by a recourse to measures
similar to those which had overthrown the monarchy; for his fanatical puppet-shows had brought
the name of Parliament into contempt, and he durst not appeal to the free voice of the nation.
I have already mentioned the disunion of his family, and the desertion of his kindred and near
alliances. Such were the accumulated miseries, such the soul-harrowing and unremitting sufferings,
of this man, whom Europe considered as the favourite of fortune, and whose extraordinary success
has been urged as a plea against the divine government, and a proof that the kingdoms of this
world are left to the disposal of Satan. Penetrate the recesses of the tyrant's palace, and
it will be seen that enormous offences, after they have outstripped the power of human punishment,
visit, on the oppressor, their own atrocity, and revenge the wrongs of a bleeding world by
torments more insupportable than any which cruelty can inflict on others.

Distrusting even his most faithful informers, and jealous of his own creatures, Cromwell always
endeavoured to see every thing with his own eyes. A little before his unlamented death, two
strangers visited the prison where Neville and Dr. Beaumont were confined. One of them avowed
himself to be the Lord Whitlock, the other passed as his secretary. They were both masked,
and wore long cloaks to conceal their persons. The secretary was furnished with writing materials;
he placed himself at a table, and affected only to take minutes of the conversation.

Whitlock began with upbraiding the national ingratitude, and acknowledging its general indisposition
to the Protector's vigorous and successful administration. He insisted that His Highness wished
to conciliate all parties by a mild and impartial government, though the ample means with which
he was furnished, the tried fidelity of the army, and the respect he was held in by foreign
Potentates, prevented him from needing the friendship of any. But being now past the meridian
of life, he was desirous of leaving the nation whom he had rendered great and prosperous, in
the possession of internal tranquillity. Though irreconcileable from principle, he regarded
the royalists as the most respectable of his opponents, and "he had ever resisted the advice
of the fanatics, to cut them off by a general massacre." Whitlock then expressed his hope,
that the prisoners condemned the newly-broached opinion that assassination was allowable, and
were disposed to be quiet, if not contented, under the present government, which would reward
such submission by relaxing the penal statutes now in force against them. Dr. Beaumont spoke
first, and declared that assassination was forbidden by the general tenor of Scripture. The
particular instances now so much dwelt on, of Jael's killing Sisera, or Judith's Holofernes,
could not be urged in vindication of similar attempts. Both acts were committed previous to
the Christian dispensation, which prescribes submissive patience under injuries, and overcoming
evil with good. Those deeds were performed under a Divine impetus, and though, by their performance,
the will of God was fulfilled, it is not clear that the perpetrators were justified in His
sight, any more than was Hazael, when (as had been divinely predicted) he acted as the chastiser
of offending Israel.

Neville then took up the argument. He retorted on Whitlock the expressions used by St. John
to procure the condemnation of Lord Strafford, and asked how they had the effrontery to object
to that rule when employed against themselves. "You have cut off our nobles, our prelates,
and our King," said he, "by that formal and public assassination, an illegal trial; but we
alike abjure your principles and practice. If I hunt a usurper and tyrant to death, it shall
be by honourable means. If his character deserves no respect, I know what is due to my own.
I hold no tenets in common with regicides. Man cannot commit a crime that can so far deface
the image of his Maker impressed upon him as to reduce him to the level of a beast of prey.
Would that this unnerved arm had strength, and that this sinking frame were again erect with
youthful vigour, then, if the awakened feelings of the nation allowed me opportunity to meet,
in the field of battle, the brave, great, wicked man you serve, I would single him out from
every opponent; but were he unarmed, and in my power, I would give him a sword before I assailed
him."

Whitlock walked to the table; but it was evident that he received, rather than gave, directions.
The soul-searching eye of Cromwell peered through his visor, and turned alternately on Neville
and Beaumont. Though a stranger to the feelings of magnanimity, he honoured its expressions.
He walked towards the captives, removed the shade from his sickly, care-worn features, and
asked how he could make them his friends.

Neville shrunk aghast, petrified at the aspect of his Sovereign's murderer. The feelings of
a father repressed his maledictions, while he gazed on him with stern silence as he would on
a portentous meteor. Dr. Beaumont sooner recollected himself. Bowing to Cromwell as to one
of those powers that are ordained by God, he answered that forgiveness and obedience were duties;
but that the feelings of friendship were a voluntary engagement, and arose from very different
motives.

"Your frankness," replied Cromwell, "proves that you well understand my plain nature and abhorrence
of flattery, and my condescension in visiting you shows I take you to be open, fair enemies,
not likely to engage in conspiracies, or desirous of renewing the times of confusion. But I
would ask, What hope have you left, or what portion, even in its best days, did your thriftless
loyalty acquire you? Eusebius Beaumont it found an obscure rector, and so it left you; for
you could only boast simplicity of life and doctrine; but court-chaplains, drivellers in learning,
and lewd knaves in manners, were rewarded with stalls and mitres. You, Allan Neville, were
stripped of your patrimony, and slandered in your reputation, by the injustice of the King
for whom you bled."

Neville started from his indignant reverie. "Were you," said he, "invested with tenfold terrors,
I would not hear this aspersion cast upon my Sovereign's memory. Injustice consists in knowing
what is wrong, and persisting in doing it. My King was misled, deceived, like myself, by the
viper we both cherished; even by one of those recreants to whom you owe your exaltation. With
double perfidy, you overthrew the King by attributing to him the crimes of his favourites,
and then converted them into state-engines, first to elevate you to greatness, and afterwards
to convey away the offscourings of the dignity you had soiled. My King was open to conviction.
He knew the fidelity of his soldier, and purposed to make him ample reparation."

"I have the power," returned Cromwell, "to accomplish those purposes." "Impossible!" was Neville's
reply; "my lands were alienated by a King of England, and by his lawful successor only can
they be restored."

"Are you," returned the Usurper, "aware that you are the only man in Europe who dares question
my power. I visited you with friendly dispositions, and you receive me with insults."

"When, veiling your dignity with disguises," answered Neville; "you borrow the occupation of
your myrmidons, and steal on the privacies of those you oppress, can you wonder to hear their
imprecations sound in unison with the clanking of their fetters?"

"I have a will," replied Cromwell, "as stubborn as yours. We will try for the mastery. What
hinders me from laying that head of yours on the block?"

"--The insufferable goadings of your afflicted conscience, perpetually whispering that you
have shed too much blood already.--Every wrinkle which care has imprinted on your brow, every
tremulous infirmity which constant watchfulness has introduced into your frame, acting as mementos
that the day of account cannot be far distant.--The iron you wear on your bosom, that by its
stern pressure tells you what you deserve.--The public clamour, which will not now permit you
to immolate the confined victims whom your own lips have pronounced innocent of recent provocations,
and against whom you dare not revive the charge of acknowledged resistance, which, by long
impunity, you seem to have pardoned. All these reasons are pledges for our safety. You cannot
further tempt the sufferance of Englishmen. Your declining health makes you fear to add to
the long indictment which your crimes have prepared against you. He strove to rally his air
of moody dignity, to recover the austere deliberate tone of his expressions; but his manner
was embarrassed, and his voice inarticulate. A groan, such as only tortured guilt can utter,
partially relieved his swollen bosom. "Neville," said he, "I will not expect you to be my friend;
but will you cease to be my enemy?"

"Miserable victim of ambition," said Neville to himself; "how much happier is my lot than thine!"
Cromwell persisted in asking if there was any favour he would receive at his hand. Neville
paused, and answered, "Yes; liberty."

"And what pledge," said Cromwell, "can you give me that you will not use freedom to my prejudice?"

"My own honour," returned Neville, "which will never allow me to use the instrument you put
in my hand to destroy you."

"No equivocation!" said Whitlock; "in receiving freedom from His Highness you acknowledge his
authority."

"No," returned Neville, "I simply own he has a power to confine me. The question of right is
undetermined. If a Usurper restores me to the free use of light and air, I need not examine
his title before I resume the enjoyment of those common blessings."

Cromwell addressed Dr. Beaumont: "You belong to a church whose doctrine is passive obedience.
You are not bewildered by this madman's chimeras, but can prudently estimate the value of our
free grace and promised favour."

"My religion," replied the Doctor, "teaches me to submit to the dispensations of Providence;
but it will not allow me to divide the spoil with those who have grown mighty on the ruins
of my friends."

"Are there no points," again inquired Cromwell, "in which we may agree to join our common wishes?
What if I beseech the Lord to give you the spirit of wisdom?"

"May he afford you that of consolation," was the emphatical wish of Dr. Beaumont. Neville waved
his hand in silence. "Oh! my friend," said he, as soon as the Protector and Whitlock had retired,
"I have suffered more than the rack. I have seen the fiend-like face which looked, without
compunction, on the sufferings of the Royal Martyr, and I felt too weak to revenge his wrongs.
Have I not gone too far in saying I would accept of freedom from his hands?"

"Vengeance for such a crime," replied Dr. Beaumont, "is too vast and comprehensive to be entrusted
to mortal agency. Let us leave it to Him who claims it as his own prerogative. Murder, perfidy,
and treason, will be remembered when the avenging angel shall visit the sins of man."

Cromwell returned from his insidious visit, disappointed and dejected. He had failed of the
end which he proposed to himself by his condescension. A reconciliation with two such distinguished
Loyalists, founded on the mutual benefits of submission and restitution, would have strengthened
his government; but he found abstinence from treacherous hostility was all that his blandishments
could obtain, and this he would owe rather to their own principles of honour and religion than
to his threats or his promises. Though stung to the heart by the bold taunts of Neville, he
could not punish him. The very aspect and figure of the two venerable sufferers were so fitted
to excite sympathy and indignation, that he durst not expose them on a scaffold, nor could
he privately cut them off. The fate of Syndercome, a daring Anabaptist, who had several times
attempted his life, and, on his trial, persevered in expressing his determination, if possible,
to kill him, alike deterred Cromwell from bringing his private enemies to the bar of a court
of justice, or resorting to private measures of revenge. He had with difficulty procured this
man's condemnation; but the night previous to his intended execution he escaped, by suicide,
the Protector's power; and so prejudiced were the populace against their Ruler, that they accused
him of having poisoned the victim he feared to bring to a public death. If the prosecution
of a notorious and avowed ruffian brought him into this dilemma, what odium would the death
of two respectable and aged Loyalists excite, especially as their story was become public,
and the wrongs of Neville, and the generous friendship of Beaumont, had awakened a powerful
sympathy. Yet his narrow soul could not accede to the generous alternative of giving them freedom.
Pretending that the state had a claim to the Bellingham-property, he prevented Monthault from
taking any measures to establish the will of the guilty Countess, and contented himself with
keeping the lawful claimant in prison, hoping that confinement would accelerate the decays
of nature, and thus give a safe quietus to his own fears.

But ere that event happened the Usurper was called to the dreadful tribunal for which few among
the descendants of Adam were apparently less prepared. His restless, intriguing ambition; the
dissimulation and hypocrisy by which he rose to supreme power; the ability with which he wielded
it; his splendid wretchedness; the terror he excited and felt; his cruelty and fanaticism,
his determined spirit, and occasionally timid vacillation, read a most impressive lesson to
aspiring minds infatuated by success, and regardless of moral or religious restraints. O that,
in this age of insubordination, selfishness, and enterprise, a poet would arise, animated with
Shakespeare's "Muse of fire," embody the events of those seventeen years of wo, and invest
the detestable Regicide with the same terrible immortality which marks the murderous Thane
in his progress from obedience and honour to supreme power and consummate misery!

Nor does the death-bed of Cromwell afford a less useful warning to the pen of instruction,
when she aims at distinguishing true piety from hypocrisy or fanaticism. It is still doubtful
under which of those counterfeits of religion we must rank this great but wicked man. Yet,
whether he deceived his own soul, or attempted to deceive others; whether he really believed
himself an elected instrument of Providence; or, having long worn devotion as the mask of ambition,
retained it to the last,--his almost unexampled crimes (so plainly forbidden by that scripture
he had ever on his lips), and the security and confidence of his last moments, furnish stronger
arguments than a thousand volumes of controversy, to prove the fallacy and danger of those
speculative notions which he patronized, propagated, and exemplified.

    [1] The Usurper's terrors at hearing this fine song of Shirley's
    is an historical fact. Some of the speeches attributed to him in
    this interview, he really used to persons he had confined, and
    wished to win over. In the close of his life he grew timid; and,
    conscious of being hated, bore insults calmly. Bishop Wren
    rejected his offered favours in as strong language as that
    attributed to Neville.

CHAP. XXVI.

    A good man should not be very willing, when his Lord comes, to be
    found beating his fellow-servants; and all controversy, as it is
    usually managed, is little better. A good man would be loth to be
    taken out of the world reeking hot from a sharp contention with a
    perverse adversary; and not a little out of countenance to find
    himself, in this temper, translated into the calm and peaceable
    regions of the blessed, where nothing but perfect charity and
    good-will reign for ever.

                                                 Tillotson.

During the turbulent era that immediately followed the death of Cromwell, obscurity was the
only asylum for integrity and innocence. The respective demagogues contended for mastery; and
the nation gazed on their contests as on so many prize-fighters, whose uninteresting warfare
regarded only themselves. Weary of confusion and discord; aware that faction had broken every
promise and frustrated every hope; that the visions of freedom had been the harbingers of despotism;
and that pretensions to moderation, disinterestedness, and purity, were but the disguise of
rapacity, pride, and selfishness, the nation longed for the restoration of a lineal Sovereign,
a regular government, and determinate laws. Even those who first signalized themselves by opposition
to the late King, acknowledged that his government was preferable to the oligarchy and military
tyranny that followed; and the Presbyterians felt their horror of Episcopacy abate while contrasting
the temperance of established supremacy with the violence of the numerous sects who strove
for superiority as soon as the hierarchy was overthrown. The easy good humour and affable manners
of the exiled King were enlarged upon, and perhaps honoured with too much celebrity. Offenders
in general anticipated forgiveness; and those who were adroit and dexterous anticipated rewards.
To assist in restoring the regal power was deemed not merely a rasure of past crimes, but a
qualification for trust and employment; and those who now sought the shelter of royalty as
a protection from their late co-partners in rebellion, seemed, by the high value which they
put on their present services, to overlook, with equal contempt and injustice, the claims and
the wrongs of the Loyalists, who having never changed their principles, had much to be repaid,
and nothing to be forgiven.

In the struggles which immediately preceded the Restoration, while Monk's designs were wrapped
in mystery, the cruelty of the regicides increased with their ambition, and the jails were
successively crowded with every party, as the unsettled government alternately vibrated from
the rump to the fanatical faction. Within the walls of the same prison, suffering the same
restraint, and, like himself, the victim of a conscience which would not temporize, Dr. Beaumont
met his worthy friend Barton. They congratulated each other on having thus far weathered the
political tempest without deserting their principles, or impugning their honour. The Doctor
learned from Barton the particulars of Lady Bellingham's death, and the claims of Monthault
on her fortune, which, by the turbulence of the times, were still kept in abeyance. Lord Bellingham
was yet alive, poor and wretched, courting every faction, trusted by none, and so universally
despised as to endure the odium of more crimes than he had even dared to commit. He was allowed
a small stipend out of his vast possessions, the income of the remainder being still paid into
the public treasury; while Morgan, now become a man of consequence, and a commissioner for
compounding forfeited property, was enabled amply to glut his rapacity, and resided at Bellingham-Castle
in a style of the grossest sensual indulgence. Monthault had joined the army of Lambert, against
whom General Monk was now marching from Scotland; and as the King had given reiterated commands
to all his friends to remain passive, and wait the event, it seemed as if he had some private
intelligence with Monk's party, to whom, therefore, each honest Englishman wished success.

Barton believed this effervescence would terminate in a happy calm--a mild but energetic government;
and he looked forward to prosperous times, when the remembrance of past misfortunes should
correct national manners, and produce a general improvement in the minds and feelings of men.
Neville was always sanguine; and Dr. Beaumont confessed that all things seemed to tend to the
restoration of monarchy; yet, with the prescience of a man long accustomed to calamity, he
doubted whether even that desired event would speedily repair the deep wound which England
had sustained.

"We shall," said he, "receive with our Prince the inestimable blessings of our old laws and
form of government; but as our troubles have served rather to show us the necessity, than to
prevent the abuse, of the prerogative, its limits continue undefined, and we shall still too
much depend on the personal character of the King. It were well if the situation in which we
now stand would allow us to propose such conditions as would make the duties of King and subject
plain and easy, before we invite our Prince to resume the sceptre of his ancestors, as it would
prevent the mistakes into which his father fell, from a misconception of the bounds of sovereign
power, derived from the arbitrary precedent set by the House of Tudor. But our divisions prevent
us from claiming those advantages which would result from wisdom, moderation, and unanimity.
We fly to the King as to a healer of our dissensions. A keen feeling of our sorrows and offences
has raised the sensibility of the nation to such a pitch, that it will sooner make concessions
than propose restraints, and rather throw its liberties before the throne than suggest an abridgement
of its splendour. We shall therefore depend, I fear, upon his mercy for the existence of the
sacred inheritance whose very shadow was so pertinaciously defended from the approaches of
his father. I trust his personal virtues are what his friends report. He has been educated
in adversity, a good school; but are not his advisers men who have endured too much to be dispassionate
and liberal? They have suffered in a good cause: if, when restored to power, they abstain from
indulging any vindictive propensity, they will be saints as well as confessors; but, considering
their long and grievous provocations, is not this requiring too much of human frailty?

"Consider too, my dear friends, (and let the reflection allay your sanguine expectations of
another golden age,) that the King to whom we look forward has been bred a foreigner. From
his own country he has hitherto met with nothing but severe injuries. The impression he has
received of the character of his future subjects is repulsive and disgusting; and the heart
of a King of England, as well as his manners, should be completely English. He will return
loaded with debts of gratitude, which he never can discharge, to those who supported his father,
as well as those who restore him; to the surviving friends of all that have bled in unsuccessful
conflicts, and to those who will ride by his side in triumph; to those who spent their fortunes
in his quarrel, and to those who hope to gain or preserve fortunes by voting for his return.
What course are men apt to pursue when they find themselves in a state of inextricable insolvency?
Do they not endeavour to forget their creditors in general, and think only of taking care of
themselves and their personal friends. Royalty does not extinguish human feelings. Let us consider
its difficulties, and palliate while we anticipate its errors.

"Are these all the remaining evils which the crimes of the last twenty years have entailed
upon us and our posterity? Call me not a prophet of evil if I foresee general laxity of principle
arising out of these sad vicissitudes and deplorable contests. You, my good Barton, will not
deny, that the extravagance, absurdity, and hypocrisy of many low fanatics, who sheltered themselves
under that unbounded liberty of conscience which you Dissenters (I think unwisely, as well,
as erroneously) claim, have made every extraordinary pretension to piety suspicious. The nation
has been whirled in the vortex of enthusiasm, perplexed with the discordant pretensions and
controversial clamour of various sects, till it has begun to consider indifference to religion
as a philosophical repose; and its contempt for hypocrites is increased till it has generated
a toleration, if not a partiality of licentiousness and immorality. Infidelity (a sin unknown
to our forefathers) has lately appeared among us, not like a solitary, restless sceptic, affecting
a wish for conviction, nor in the bashful form of an untried novelty, cautiously stealing upon
public favour--but under the licence long allowed to opinions however blasphemous or immoral,
a party has arisen, calling themselves free-thinkers, who not only deride every ecclesiastical
institution, and publicly insult religion in its ministers, but even make the word of God an
object of profane travesty and licentious allusion. This never could have happened, the manly
feeling and good sense of Englishmen would never have permitted such audacity, had not trifling,
malicious, ignorant, and ridiculous misapplications of the sacred writings, sunk, in too many
minds, the veneration in which they were formerly held; and thus benumbed what ought to have
been the natural sentiments of indignation at the blasphemies of deism.

"We must admit that the return of the King is likely to introduce an influx of foreign manners,
and that the long-suspended festivities of a court will foster an exultation bordering on extravagance.
How will those who seek advancement, approach a Prince who has been long groaning under the
injustice of mean and cruel hypocrites? Is it not likely that ridicule will aim at the gross,
distorted features of preaching mechanics, and praying cut-throats, till the ministers, who
are consecrated to serve at the altar, will find some of the missile shafts fall on their vestments?
The perversions of Scripture I have just mentioned will be so scrupulously avoided, that an
apposite and pious quotation will be termed puritanical; and we shall seldom hear the sacred
volume referred to but to point a jest. Elegant literature, the fine arts, and dramatic amusements,
have been long reprobated as Pagan devices. But so natural is our desire for innocent enjoyments,
that, remove the interdict, and the public inclination will rush to these delights with the
avidity resulting from constrained abstinence, which will give to pleasure an undue preponderance:
Wit has been too much discountenanced. I simply argue on the tendency of the human mind to
extremes, when I suspect that it will be indulged till it degenerates into indecorous levity.
May the evils I foresee exist only in my fears; but if they are realized, much of the guilt,
much of the blame must be laid on those who deluged us with spiritual pride, cant, austerity,
and oppression; who bent the necks of Englishmen to the yoke of slavery, did their utmost to
exterminate the Christian sentiments of moderation and charity, wrought the nation into a ferment,
and then expected good to result from the chaos of virulent passions."

Mr. Barton admitted all the evils which had resulted from overstrained rigidity, but expressed
the hopes his party entertained that Episcopacy would not be considered as a necessary adjunct
to monarchy; or, in case of its revival, that it might be re-instated in its primitive form,
and that the objectionable parts of the Liturgy, the articles, and the canons, might be so
modified as to satisfy all parties. He spoke of the obligations which the King would owe to
the Dissenters; who he trusted would be rewarded by being placed on an equality with the Church.

Dr. Beaumont argued, that if these late services cancelled their former transgressions, the
Dissenters would have no just cause of complaint at being replaced in the situation which they
held previously to the rebellion. He much feared that the vindictive feelings of those who
had been despoiled, ridiculed, plundered, imprisoned, and deprived of every earthly blessing,
would produce some measures, which, though they might be supported by the pretence of preventing
further mischief, he should lament and blame, but never justify. As to jointly establishing
Episcopacy and Presbytery, or simply tolerating both, he could never consent to either plan
politically, because he conceived one established religion was necessary to preserve national
piety; and the Church had too many claims on the King's gratitude, and was too intimately connected
with the laws and manners of the people to be laid aside, or reduced to the level of her opponents;
and, considered as a point of conscience, he was so firmly convinced of her conformity, in
doctrine and discipline, to apostolical institutions, ancient customs, and, above all, to Scripture,
that, though he would be the last man in the kingdom to consent to persecute those who, through
conscience, refused to conform, he would be the first to defend her pre-eminence. As to giving
the Church a more primitive dress, by which he supposed was meant, depriving her of her endowments,
it must be remembered, that when the ministers of the Gospel lost miraculous gifts, they became
dependant on temporal support. Though the apostles appeared as mendicants, yet while they could
heal diseases with a touch, they inspired reverence. But in the present times men showed more
observance to those who could bestow alms than to those who required support. It should likewise
be remembered that an injunction was given to the bishops of the first century "to use hospitality,"
a proof that the primitive church was not in all respects clad in sackcloth.

Dr. Beaumont farther declared his doubts of the good effects of a conference between the Episcopalian
and Presbyterian clergy. He was willing to sacrifice non-essentials to peace; but personal
disputations were more apt to confirm than to remove prejudices. One party would be too querulous,
the other too tenacious. Personal considerations would mix in the dispute; difficulties would
be started; objections raised, when none, in fact, existed; and, in the heat of debate, real
improvements would be rejected, which, in the calm seclusion of the closet, would be allowed
to be important. Declaimers, conscious of their own powers, would seek distinction rather by
acuteness and fastidiousness than by candour and placability. The enemies of the Church would
argue rather with a view to her destruction than to her purification; and, on the other hand,
her friends would gloss over her imperfections through fear that her opponents had some latent
hostility, which the least concession on their part would bring to maturity.

He reminded Barton that as a body the Dissenters could not complain at their being expelled
from the situations in which they were placed by an unlawful and usurped authority. He trusted
that wise and moderate men would, by conformity, avoid this evil, and prefer the true praise
of sacrificing their scruples at the shrine of peace and unity, to the false glory of courting
reputation, by first exciting and then enduring persecution. He spoke of schism as an evil
the most afflictive; the most opposite to the spirit of the Gospel, and to the commands of
its Divine Founder, and as the greatest impediment to its universal promulgation. He exhorted
Barton to use his influence with his friends, persuading them to acquire the only triumph over
the church in their power, by renouncing their own prejudices, when they could not make their
opponents subdue theirs, and thus prove themselves to be the truest disciples of the Prince
of Peace. "Let the contest," said he, "be only which shall serve our common master best, by
leading a life of unpretending holiness. Schism does infinitely more harm by the enmity it
engenders, than it does good by the zeal it kindles. Controversial ardour is rather the death
than the life of piety."

Mr. Barton replied, that he was become much more sensible of the evils attendant on a separating
humour, on the gathering of parties and forming sects from the church; their effects had proved
them to be mischiefs. He confessed that until he had imbibed prejudices against the Liturgy,
he had joined in it with as hearty fervency, as he afterwards did in other prayers, and felt,
from its imperfections, no hinderance in his devotions. He said, that he had lost his relish
for controversy, and now took most delight in what was fundamental, the Creed, the Lord's Prayer,
and the Ten Commandments, furnishing him with matter for meditation equally acceptable and
abundant. That he less admired gifts of utterance, and bare professions of religion, than he
once did, and no longer thought that all those who could pray movingly and fluently, and talk
well of religion, were of course saints. That he was convinced most controversies had more
need of right stating than of debating, and that many contenders actually differed less than
they supposed[1]. But still if the conditions of conformity should require him to acknowledge
the invalidity of his present ordination, he could not consent to admit that he had hitherto
been an Uzzah, touching the ark with unhallowed hands. In that case he would submit to the
rod of chastisement, instead of receiving the staff of pastoral cure, and if he were forbidden
to instruct others, he would discipline himself. For the sake of peace he would attend the
services of the church, in which, though he saw much that might be improved, he discerned nothing
absolutely sinful. To preserve a Christian spirit in himself and others, he would avoid dwelling
on the restraints he suffered; but instead of repining, be thankful for the liberty he enjoyed.
And he thought such behaviour would be the best way of enlarging that liberty, or, if that
could not be done, of healing, in the next generation, those breaches which furious animosity
had made in the present[2].

He concluded by saying, that whoever had seen the ill-will engendered by controversy, and the
miseries incident to civil war, must think peace cheaply purchased by any sacrifice short of
conscience; and that, for his own part, no private injuries, disappointments, or harsh treatment,
should make him obtrude his wrongs upon the public, so as to excite clamour against the government.
He had seen how soon clamour brings on insurrection, and how partial commotion leads to universal
confusion. During such scenes, inconsiderate, daring, and worthless men, acquire an ascendancy,
and bring, by their extravagance, disgrace upon their party. Yet, proudly ascribing their influence
to a superiority of desert, they reject the counsels of prudence, while their inordinate passions
lead them to subdue the restraints of conscience. To preserve the nation from such misrule,
he protested that he ardently wished to see the reins of government again in the hands of prescriptive
authority.

    [1] See Baxter's reflections on his early religious opinions.

    [2] The behaviour of Barton is copied from the conduct of Philip
    Henry, a non-conformist divine.

CHAP. XXVII.

                                                 Shakspeare.

While the levellers and republicans alternately gained the ascendancy, and Monk, either from
irresolution or profound policy, appeared to favour every party but that which he eventually
espoused, long suspence quenched the hopes of the Loyalists, and their prospect of golden days
seemed enveloped by the gloom of despair, when all at once the General rapidly measured back
his steps. That mighty Parliament which, as different parties prevailed in it, countenanced
the most rigorous coercion or permitted the wildest anarchy; which opposed, menaced, conquered,
deceived, and murdered the King by whom it was summoned; which feebly attempted to resist the
power of its own creature, Cromwell; and, after passively dispersing at his frown, re-assembled
to insult his memory, threaten the fanatics, and denounce monarchy; that strange combination
of talent and extravagance, of praying demagogues and aspiring religionists; deemed by Europe
the soul of English rebellion, and the voice of the nation by whom it was at once feared, hated,
and ridiculed; that representative body which voted its own perpetuity, and overthrew the constitution
it was called to maintain--died at last by its own vote, amid universal execrations, and joyous
anticipations of better times. A Parliament was called, which, being really chosen by the nation,
hastened to give utterance to the national feeling. The prison-doors were thrown open to the
Loyalists, their persecutors fled dismayed. Many who had sinned less deeply, hurried to the
King with supererogatory offers of service. The ambitious and the vain busied themselves in
devices to give splendor to the restoration which, from the awful circumstance of a penitent
people welcoming back their exiled Monarch, could borrow no lustre from ostentatious pageants.
Love, confidence, liberty, and security, seemed to revive; malice, suspicion, and guile, vanished
with the dark tyranny they had so long supported. The aspect, manners, and dress of Englishmen
resumed their former appearance. The lengthened visage; the rayless, yet penetrating eye; the
measured smile, which expressed neither affection nor candour, disappeared. The countenance
was again permitted to be an index to the soul, and the tongue uttered the undisguised feelings
of artless sincerity; joy, magnified to ecstasy; freedom bursting the trammels of oppression;
sorrow changed to festivity; want expatiating on the near prospect of affluence; justice restored
to the full exercise of her balance and sword; religion separated from fanaticism, and reinstated
in decent splendor; a hereditary King, a regular government, ancient institutions, definite
laws, certain privileges, personal safety, and the restitution of property--such were the glorious
themes which employed the thoughts of the contemplative, elevated the devotion of the pious,
and made the unreflecting multitude frantic with wild delight. No period of English history
records so great a change. The spring of 1660 was devoted to universal jubilee; with the vulgar
it was disaffection to be sober, and among the higher classes gravity was treason.

Though the prisons were thrown open, the Beaumont family still lingered near the abode wherein
they had been so long inhumed. A free communication was renewed with foreign countries; private
intercourse was safe; exiles were every hour returning; but they heard nothing of their beloved
fugitives. Dr. Beaumont waited with the patience of a man, who had endured years of sorrow.
The debilitated Neville feared his last sands would run out before he could embrace his son.
Isabel and Constantia had fears which they durst not disclose, even to each other. Were both
their lovers enamoured of the merchant's daughter, or had some continental Circe also spread
her fascinations, and made the recreants forget their fathers and their country, as well as
their mistresses? Surely, in that case Dr. Lloyd would have sent some qualified account of
their temptation and fall. Had they all perished in some tremendous undertaking; had a pestilence
swept them away; had they fallen into the hands of banditti, or perished silently, ensnared
by the still more merciless machinations of regicide-informers? There was no form in which
danger and death could appear, that did not present itself to the alarmed mind of these long-suffering
maidens, during the few weeks that intervened between the time that a Loyalist could appear
in England without imminent hazard, and their receiving the intelligence which dispelled every
doubt. A day seemed an age to exhausted patience, and the transports of others added to their
sadness.

Isabel was at length informed, that a stranger inquired for her. Her bosom throbbed violently--"Is
he young or old?" was all she could utter. "Middle aged," was the reply. "Alas!" said she,
"I forget how rapidly time has stolen on since I parted with De Vallance. I have not looked
at my face for years; 'tis changed, I am sure; I have lost every attraction, but my heart is
still the same."--"Ever the same good heart!" repeated Eustace, as he rushed in, and caught
her in his affectionate arms. "O! tell me, Isabel, where is my Constantia?" "Speak, low," said
Isabel, attempting to smother a hysterical laugh. "Dear Eustace, how you are altered! Do not
enter that room, the shock will be too great!"

The terrors of Eustace prompted a thousand inquiries.--"Was Constantia well? Was she faithful?"
"Yes, yes!" replied Isabel, struggling in vain for composure; "but----" a thousand fears lurked
in that word, and Eustace gazed in mute horror, while Isabel recovered self-command enough
to say, "We are very much altered." Eustace shed tears of joy.--"Virtue and fidelity are always
young and lovely," said he.--"You should not have taken me by surprise," resumed the much-agitated
Isabel; "let me recollect myself a moment, and then you shall see our long-suffering father,
and your ever-beloved Constance."

Her eyes were turned to the door at which Eustace entered, with an unacknowledged expectation
of another visitant, and she stood incapable of the promised introduction. But the well-remembered,
long-desired voice of Eustace had penetrated the inner-chamber, and Constantia, pale and silent,
advanced to meet her betrothed love; held out her hand with timid joy, and sunk speechless
into his arms. "My boy! my boy! let me fold thee to my heart, and expire in thy embraces!"
exclaimed the agonized Neville, as with ineffectual efforts he strove to rise from the couch
of infirmity. Eustace cast himself at his feet. "Your blessing," said he, "on one who is no
disgrace to your blood. Dearest father, your commands have been obeyed; I have redeemed my
honour, and my life is preserved to this hour of transport."

"The choicest blessings of all-gracious Providence rest on thy head, and on that of thy faithful
partner;" said Neville, for Constance had involuntarily knelt by the side of her lover; "and
may your future days be crowned with prosperity and peace! True heir of the Neville virtues,
and now of their honours!" He closed his eyes, and continued to press his hands on their heads
with a patriarch's fervour--then, as if recalling his thoughts to this lower world, inquired
of Eustace if he had seen the King.

"I have seen and served him," answered Eustace. "He is well, amiable, royally-disposed, and,
at this moment, embarking on board his own fleet to receive the crown of his ancestors; determined
to forget his enemies, and reward his friends."

"Thou wilt kill me with joy," said the transported veteran; "but I am now content to die. Eustace,
thou shalt never leave me more; I can never be satiated with hearing the sound of thy voice,
or gazing on thee thus rising from disgrace and death. Come, tell me all thou hast endured
since we parted." Eustace seated himself beside him on the couch, one arm clasped his Constantia,
the other reclined on his father's knees. Neville rested his arms and head on his crutch, devouring
with his eyes his son's features, and jealous of the glances he frequently cast on his beloved.
Dr. Beaumont stood at a little distance, gazing on the affectionate group with calm delight,
and frequently diverting his thoughts in pious thankfulness to that gracious Providence, who
thus richly repaid their sorrows. Isabel threw herself at the feet of Eustace, half angry that
she could engage no more of his attention, and listening to the narrative of his adventures
with emotions which it is impossible to define.

Eustace was brief in his story, reserving the minutiæ for a calmer moment. The increased vigilance
of the republican government soon made Jersey an unsafe residence. They removed to the continent;
travelled through France, Italy, and the Low-Countries, without finding any eligible place
wherein to fix. At length their funds failing, they agreed to prefer an humble employment to
yet more degrading dependence. Dr. Lloyd served as assistant surgeon in the Dutch military
hospital; and Eustace entered as a volunteer in the body-guard of the young Prince of Orange,
consoled by the idea of devoting his life to the grandson of his murdered sovereign. Here he
frequently saw and conversed with the present King, whose affable and attractive manners he
warmly praised. "He recognised me," said he, "as the son of one to whom he owed indelible obligations,
and his condescension commanded my confidence. He knows, dearest father, your early wrongs;
and so sure as the crown of England is placed on his head, he will restore to you your titles
and estates free from every base condition, and subject to no tribute, but what every English
peer owes to a gracious and generous Monarch."

"There," thought Isabel, "my predictions are true--Constance will wear her ermined robes of
state--but where is the cheerful residence of elegant sufficiency, in which I was to sing to
my De Vallance? Eustace only speaks of his own adventures. Oh, this merchant's daughter of
St. Helier; I wish she had been locked up in a nunnery. Doubtless, she is young and beautiful;
but prosperity is a becoming ornament. I will take courage, and ask if they are very happy."

Isabel, after hemming several times, attempted to speak, and at last was able to say, "My dear
brother!" Eustace turned his eyes upon her. His excessive transports had sufficiently subsided
to allow him to enter into her feelings, and he affectionately answered, "What would my dear
sister?"

"You had another companion," said she, "besides Dr. Lloyd."

"I will punish this prudery," thought Eustace. "True, my love; poor Fido.--It is kind in you
to remember that faithful animal. He died on his travels, and I assure you I dropped a tear
on his grave."

"Pshaw," cried Isabel, turning away her head.

"He lies in a celebrated spot," continued Eustace, "close to the walls of the convent of St.
Bernard on the Alps; and thereby hangs a dreadful tale."

"We will listen to no dreadful tales now," said Constance, who felt by sympathy the untold
sentiments of Isabel. "Tell us what is become of De Vallance, provoking Eustace; I see by your
smile all is well. Will nothing cure you of your love of teazing us?"

"When ladies forget the names of their lovers," replied Eustace, "delicacy forbids us to interpret
their inquiries. De Vallance is well; he came with me to England; but, Isabel, you must yield
him to stronger claims."

"I guessed so," answered she; "and will resign him with fortitude; nay, with indifference."
Tears, it is presumed, are a sign of these sensations, for her's flowed rapidly as she spoke.
"Consider, my beloved sister," returned Eustace; "the glorious event which reinstates you in
the rank and fortune of an Earl's daughter renders De Vallance the son of a disgraced usurper,
despoiled of his ill-acquired splendor, and heir to nothing save the infamy of his parents."

"I had prepared my mind," said Isabel, "for every thing, but his being faithless to his vows.
Had he been constant, I would have shared his lot however humble, and told the world his superior
virtues cancelled the treasons and the treachery of his parents. But if beauty and affluence
have proved irresistible, let me remember that my fortunes seemed desperate, allow the force
of the temptation, and forgive him."

"There spoke my own magnanimous sister," exclaimed Eustace, folding her to his heart. "Thou
worthy choice of my best and dearest friend! a wretched father is the stronger claim which
detains him from thee. He is gone to carry comfort to the most pitiable object in the world,
an alarmed, deserted sinner."

"I never will forgive you, Eustace, for thus torturing me," said Isabel, and while she spoke,
encircled his neck with her arms. "Was there no truth in the tale of an enamoured lady of St.
Helier?" Eustace blushed, called it a gossip's story, and threw his eyes on Constance, dearer
and more attractive in her faded loveliness, than when in the happy prime of youthful beauty
she first enslaved his affectionate heart.

Neville sat thoughtful and silent, gazing on his children with the painful exhaustion of overstrained
sensibility. Isabel and Eustace seemed emulous to out-talk each other. Constantia looked unutterable
content. Dr. Beaumont was mild, devout, admonitory; more inclined to bless the sure mercies
of Providence, than to condemn the perverse conduct of man. He now recollected the anxieties
of his good sister Mellicent, and proposed that Williams should be dispatched with the joyful
tidings. "She must be told," said Eustace, "that the air-built castles she was so skilful in
erecting have now a firm foundation. 'Tis time she should exercise her abilities in making
bride-cake and comfits; two happy pairs will soon claim her services." "Nay," said Isabel,
"as you are in a marrying humour, there shall be three, for who but she can reward good Dr.
Lloyd, without whose vigilance and generosity we should all have been the most pitiable of
mourners, wretched at the time of universal joy?"

Eustace answered that the worthy Esculapius was returning in the King's suite, being appointed
one of his physicians, and he hinted the probability of his aunt's medical pre-eminence destroying
the effect of her personal attractions. "At least," said he, "the Doctor has never intimated
a wish for the alliance, though he speaks with admiration of her fortitude and maternal affection
for us children of her love and care. And severely as you accuse me for want of gallantry to
your sex, I will not even allow a spinster of seventy to volunteer her hand, when the honour
is not passionately desired."

Dr. Beaumont now inquired what dreadful tale was connected with the convent of St. Bernard,
and he soon found his own predictions were realized respecting the fate of those who seek security
by the paths of crooked policy and selfish cunning. Those dreary walls inclosed the wretched
heir of the Waverly family. Overwhelmed with horror at having deprived his father of life,
the unhappy man abjured a country whose civil wars had given birth to such tremendous crimes.
Long the victim of despair, he at last sought a quietus to his ever-gnawing remorse, by flying
to the bosom of that church which barters salvation for pecuniary mulcts, and represents penance
and subserviency to its schemes of worldly aggrandisement to be the wings which will waft the
soul over the gulph of purgatory, and securely lodge it in Abraham's bosom. Not content with
becoming a convert to the Romish church, the young Baronet determined upon expiating his unintentional
parricide, by taking the cowl, and entering into its strictest order of monachism. Eustace
and his friends, when they travelled over the Alps, were lodged one night at this convent,
and in the midnight service De Vallance recognized the well-remembered tones of his powerful
voice. They afterwards saw him in the garden labouring at his future grave, according to the
prescribed rules of his order. His hood was fallen off, and gave to view his face, in which
the deepest lines of sorrow were combined with the gloom of sullen superstition. All intercourse
was forbidden by that law which chained his tongue to eternal silence, except when employed
as the organ of devotion. Eustace wept with true commiseration; the unhappy monk threw on him
a look, which showed he too well remembered England, drew his cowl over his face, and with
a groan of the deepest melancholy solemnly returned to his cell.

Dr. Beaumont's remarks on this narrative were pious and affecting; but there was a heavy gloom
in the eye of Neville, which indicated a mind too much absorbed by its own feelings to enjoy
the badinage of happy lovers, or to listen to the suggestions of wisdom and devotion. "Is our
dear father ill?" was the alarmed inquiry of Isabel. "Has the surprise of my return overpowered
him?" said Eustace. "Will not affliction allow her victim a few years respite, before the effects
of her early visitations conduct him to the grave?"

It was the privilege of that true minister of Heaven who tranquillized his youthful impatience,
to penetrate into the secret feelings of the man of sorrows. Inattentive to every other subject,
Dr. Beaumont perceived that he was roused by the name of Walter De Vallance, and therefore
led Eustace to describe his present situation. The tortures of a guilty conscience, added to
his constitutional timidity, had totally extinguished those faint beams of hope and ambition
which led him, in every previous change of affairs, to project his own security or advancement.
To usurpers and mal-contents of every description he thought he might either be useful or formidable;
but from the returning King, welcomed with rapture by a repentant nation, a versatile traitor,
who had betrayed the counsels of the royal martyr, could not expect even mercy. Too well known
both for his rank and his provocations, to hope to shelter in obscurity, he had no resource
but to fly to some distant land; and he proposed retreating to those colonies in America which
were peopled under the influence of republican principles. But he had not proceeded many stages
from London before he fell sick. His perturbed mind so far betrayed him to his host as to show
he was one of those whom the happy change in public affairs compelled to fly from England,
and he was immediately suspected to be one of the late King's judges, who, having imbrued their
hands in royal blood, were, by the consent of all parties, reserved as an atonement to public
justice. He was therefore seized, hurried back to London, and thrown into close confinement.
His son and Eustace learned these particulars by stopping at the inn which had been the scene
of his arrest; and the former, from some circumstances discovering the prisoner to be his father,
deputed Eustace to plead his unchanged love and ardent hopes to his dearest Isabel, while he
himself hastened to protect and solace his wretched parent with a hope, that by interposing
his own unquestioned loyalty as a surety, he might preserve his life, if not obtain his liberty.

Not all the courtly blandishments of gallantry, nor even the heart-breathed vows of true love
could have been half so acceptable to Isabel as this sacrifice of self-indulgence to filial
duty. Even Neville could not refrain from commending his nephew's conduct, while brushing a
tear from his eye he attempted to revive the expiring flame of vindictive indignation. "The
villain, then," said he, "knows now what it is to want the service of a worthy child. Tell
me, Eustace, does he suffer deeply? Is his soul ground down with compunction by recollecting
the inhumed Neville, doomed by him and his rebel partizans to shelter with the dead. Shut for
years from the light of the sun, excluded from human converse, and daily fed by that dear girl
with the bread of affliction, though born to stand before Kings, and sit as judge among Princes!
Walter De Vallance now suffers what I never endured. The gnawing worm of remorse must inflict
on him the agonies of despair, but conscious innocence illumined my dungeon with hope. Yes,
the spirits of my ancestors, offended at the foul pollution of their pure ermine, point at
my son as the restorer of their tarnished honours, and bid me exult in the agonies which await
the death-bed of a villain!"

A look of grave rebuke from Dr. Beaumont recalled the much-agitated Neville from this delirium
of indulged malevolence. "My brother and my friend," he exclaimed; "supporter of my frail existence,
and guide of my soul! I have sinned, pray for me." "May Almighty mercy," replied the pious
minister of Heaven, "grant you that peace which only those can feel who are in charity with
all mankind!--If years of affliction have not so taught you the comparative worthlessness of
temporal possessions as to prevent your making them a pretext for eternal enmity; if calamity
has steeled your heart to pity instead of melting it to contrition, I must bid you fear, lest
some more terrible trials should visit you, or what is worse, lest the sinner who will not
pardon an offending brother should be suddenly called to account for his own unrepented transgressions
against the God, not then of infinite compassion, but of most righteous vengeance."

Neville trembled violently. His affectionate children intreated Dr. Beaumont to spare his infirmities,
but he answered, that regard for the mortal body must not, in this instance, make him overlook
the more important concerns of the never-dying soul, endangered by his thus cherishing implacable
resentment. The termination of the struggle proved Neville a true hero. He not only confessed
but abjured his errors. "I have," said he, "brooded too deeply over my injuries, and thus have
added to my plagues by inflicting on myself more torments than even my enemies designed I should
feel. Born with too exquisite sensibility of ill-treatment, proceeding possibly from inordinate
self-esteem, disposed to ardent attachment and unbounded confidence, I measured the hearts
of others by my own, and supposed that they equally revered the claims of generosity and friendship;
for never did I expect a service, which in a change of situations, I would not have rendered
unasked; never have I condemned a fault but those so abhorrent to my nature that, I would have
died rather than have committed them. Condemned by the triumphant treachery of a man, in all
things my inferior, to indigence and obscurity; all the liberal feelings I so dearly cherished
palsied by my inability to expand the social charities beyond the narrow limits of my own family,
I ruminated on the glorious indulgences resulting from, the possession of that power and affluence
I was born to inherit. But, instead of enjoying the means of patronising merit, raising the
oppressed, or succouring calamity, I beheld myself doomed to the anxious routine of a life
consumed in the care of procuring a sufficiency for its own support, pondering how the claims
of a creditor could be discharged, and the disgrace of injustice averted by the sacrifice of
every generous gratification--I passed my days in a silent sacrifice of my wishes and comforts,
in concealing my own wants, and steeling my heart to those of others, and it was during this
mental torture of restrained liberality that I nourished in my soul a deadly thirst for revenge,
an extreme desire of seeing the arm that smote me to the earth withered and powerless as my
own. Oh, my children! there is guilt and danger in an excessive indulgence of even the most
laudable feelings, and my crime brought on its punishment.--The loss of reason; the death of
your adored mother, deserving infinitely more than the highest earthly honours, and therefore
early translated to an angelical throne; these were my chastisements. In respect to what I
have since suffered for my King, the testimonies of a good conscience were my support and my
reward. And may the favours of a grateful monarch enable my Eustace to enjoy those noblest
privileges of greatness for which I pined with ineffectual desire! I am now old and helpless,
tottering on the brink of eternity, a blank, as far as respects this world. May I then divest
my soul of those passions which will unfit it for the abodes of peace! The injuries of Walter
De Vallance are not irremediable. Still do I clasp my son to my heart. Affliction has tried
the virtues of my children, and brought me to a sense of my own errors. Let not short-sighted
man, who cannot see the remote consequences of events, cherish revenge. Let not dust and ashes
value its imperfect shows of goodness. Our greatest conquest is a victory over ourselves. Our
noblest title is to be called obedient servants of the Most High."

Dr. Beaumont wept with pious delight, while Neville, leaning on his children in a posture of
penitent adoration, besought Heaven to pardon his own sins, and the sins of his brother De
Vallance. So entire was his abstraction, that he was not interrupted by the entrance of Barton,
whose countenance expressed a degree of depression ill suited to the joyous character of the
times. Dr. Beaumont accosted him by the title of his worthy friend, and the associate of his
future fortunes. He introduced him to Eustace, of whose preservation from the massacre at Pembroke
he was till then ignorant. Barton blessed the protecting hand of Providence, and explained
his apparent dejection, by stating that he had just witnessed a most awful and impressive scene--a
grievous sinner wounded alike in body and in soul, with no hope of escaping punishment either
in this world or in that which is to come. He soon discovered that he meant the miserable De
Vallance, whom, as he had served in prosperity, he would not desert in his utmost need, though
he alike detested his private and despised his public character. He described him as alone,
pennyless, comfortless, without resources in himself, or help from others. His worthy son had
not yet discovered the place of his confinement; he knew not what was become of his son, and
among all the crimes which tortured his conscience, the supposed death of Eustace was most
insupportable. Hopeless of pity, yet desperate from remorse, he had commissioned Barton to
intreat the greatly-injured Neville to forgive him. Christian principles had already obtained
a victory over the agonizing resentments of wounded honour, and the eloquence of Barton only
served to hasten its effect. Neville was calmly resolved, not moved by pathetic description,
to act as he ought. "Go, my child," said he to Eustace, "bear my forgiveness to our unhappy
kinsman, and by convincing him of your own existence, foil the tempter's efforts to overwhelm
him with despair. I would see him, but we are both, weak in body, and frail in purpose. An
interview might revive violent animosities. Envy and resentment are irritable passions; 'tis
best we meet no more till our mortal failings are deposited in our graves. Then may our purified
spirits enter upon a state where avarice and ambition cannot tempt, nor impatience and anger
dispose us to offend! There may we meet as pardoned sinners, alike rejoicing in redemption!--Mine
shall not be a mere verbal reconciliation. My King can refuse nothing to Allan Neville, the
faithful Loyalist. Title and fortune will be restored to me as my right; but the only reward
I will ask for my services shall be the pardon of my enemies. The punishment of a state-criminal
must not disgrace my Isabel's nuptials. She has been to me the angel of consolation, and she
shall carry forgiveness and honour as a dower to her husband. And now, Beaumont, while the
relentings of my soul can refuse nothing to thy admonitions, tell me, is there aught more that
I ought to perform?"

From one of less acute sensibility, Dr. Beaumont would possibly have required that he should
have been the interpreter of his own purposes to De Vallance, but he rightly considered, that
very susceptible and ardent characters, after they have forgiven, find it impossible to forget.
When such persons are brought to that proper state of mind, to return good for evil, without
either boasting of their lenity, or enumerating their wrongs, the best way of inducing an oblivion
of the past, is to avoid such intercourse as may revive painful retrospection. It is impossible
for those who have minds capable of appreciating the delicacies of friendship, to re-unite
the bonds of esteem and confidence, when they have been violently rent asunder by cunning or
treachery. Beside, Barton admitted that he saw in the behaviour of De Vallance more of the
apprehensions of timorous guilt than the renovated spirit of self-abased contrition.

Eustace inherited the deep sensibilities of his father, but a train of happy years rose in
perspective before him. Unbroken health, unclouded fame, successful love, wealth, and greatness--at
the hour of his restoration to all these blessings, he must have been a monster who could have
withheld cordial forgiveness from a humiliated miserable enemy. Eustace visited the man who
had doomed him to a premature grave, with a sincere desire to prolong his life, and restore
his peace. To the relief afforded by a conviction that the guilt of his nephew's murder did
not lie upon his soul, De Vallance received the additional consolation of knowing that his
own son was alive, and acknowledged by Eustace as a most beloved friend and future brother.
The forgiveness of Neville, and the assurance of his powerful intercession with the King in
his favour, changed the horrors of the wretched man into transports of joy. Lost to all nobler
feelings, and penitent only from terror, apprehensions of the future had increased the sickness
which fatigue and anxiety had occasioned, and his recovery was expedited by the confidence
he now felt, that he should be permitted to spend the remnant of his days in security, protected
by the virtues of the son whom he had neglected, and the clemency of the victims he had wronged.

CHAP. XXVIII.

                    All friends shall taste
    The wages of their virtues, and all foes
    The cup of their deservings.

                                                 Shakspeare.

The restoration of the King was speedily followed by the re-instatement of Neville in his family-honours,
and the marriage of his son and daughter. Mrs. Mellicent had the unspeakable satisfaction of
arranging the ceremony, selecting the dress of the brides, and ordering the nuptial banquet.
History does not warrant me in adding, that she afterwards consummated the happiness of Dr.
Lloyd, by completing the liberal tokens of regard which his grateful friends showered upon
him. But whether this was owing to her own obduracy, or to somewhat of that enmity which often
subsists between professors of the same liberal art, I have no means of discovering. It is
certain that they continued to be sincere friends, which possibly might not have been the case
if Mrs. Mellicent's confidence in the superiority of her own cordials and ointments to the
recipes prescribed by the regularly educated practitioner, had not induced her to pass on,
"in maiden meditation fancy free," preferring the privileges of "blessed singleness" to the
mortification of subscribing to the efficacy of those medical nostrums which were not found
in the British herbal.

Morgan fled from Bellingham-Castle with the precipitation of an owl at the sun-rising. When
the aged Earl proceeded to take possession, he strained his dim eyes to point out to his son
the seat of his ancestors from the most distant eminence which afforded a glimpse of the stately
turrets. He fancied he should never be weary in showing Eustace the particular places which
were signalized by conspicuous actions; the hall where Walter the Inflexible sat in judgment;
the tower from whence Rodolph the Bold overlooked the tournament; the postern where Allan the
Magnificent welcomed his princely guests with the courtly subservience of an humble host; or
the chamber in which Orlando the Good paid the debt of nature, while the monks told their beads
in the anti-room, and the inner court of the castle was crowded by the pensioners whom he supported,
and the way-faring pilgrims he relieved. But Neville soon discovered that prosperity has its
disappointments as well as adversity its comforts. The woods which Earl Henry planted were
cut down, the shield and trophies which Sir Edmund won at Agincourt were defaced, the family
heirlooms were carried away, the precious manuscripts burnt, the state-furniture sold. Bellingham-Castle
was merely the despoiled shell of greatness, requiring, for its re-edifying, that energy and
anxiety which a worn-out invalid could not exercise. The duties of an exalted station overwhelmed
him; its business distracted, its state fatigued him. He soon felt convinced, that to those
who have long languished in the gloom of sorrow, the brilliant glare of greatness is insupportable.
To them ease is happiness, and tranquillity delight.

Determined to spend the residue of his days with his daughter, the Earl resigned Castle-Bellingham
to Eustace and Constantia. Happiness and benevolence diffused over the face of the latter charms
superior to any it had boasted even in the prime of youthful beauty. This excellent pair continued
to deserve each other's affection, being an ornament to their high station, a blessing and
an example to their neighbours, faithful to their King, true to their country, and grateful
to their God.

Not content with barely doing justice to those who had deserved and suffered so much, the King
granted to Lady Isabel Neville the manor of Waverly, which had escheated to the crown by the
extinction of that ill-fated family. The title of Lord Sedley had now devolved on Eustace.
It was agreed to disuse the dishonoured name of De Vallance, and adopt the endeared appellative
of Evellin, to which was annexed the title of Baronet. Waverly-Park was now changed into Evellin-hall.
An elegant mansion was erected on the scite of the ruins, exhibiting as marked a contrast in
the cheerful munificence of its aspect, as the firm integrity, unostentatious goodness, and
amiable manners of Sir Arthur and his Lady did to the contemptible character of its late inhabitants.

Large church-emoluments were offered to Dr. Beaumont; but he, with a lowliness and moderation
corresponding to his other great qualities, declined accepting any. He said he had endured
too much to become a prominent actor in public affairs at a time which required the most dispassionate
prudence to heal discord, and the firmest wisdom to repair breaches. He suspected his understanding
was clouded, and his temper soured, by the heavy pressure of affliction. He knew that his health
was broken, and his long seclusion from the world had unfitted him for undertaking its direction.
It was his prayer to devote the remnant of his days to peace and privacy. He returned to Ribblesdale
(now endeared to him by the attachments of its inhabitants, and the change which his truly
pastoral labours had produced,) in the same state of respectable mediocrity, with regard to
worldly wealth, as he enjoyed before the commencement of the troubles; his worthy heart glowing
with the honest pride, that though he had shared in the sorrows, he had not partaken of the
spoils, of his country. His return was welcomed with rapture. He found no pseudo-shepherd to
dispute his right of reclaiming the church he had wedded with primitive simplicity of affection.
Davies had died of an apoplexy; and Priggins, after giving indubitable proofs that conversion
was in him merely the turned coat of knavery, while, to weak understandings and bad hearts,
he made religion itself contemptible by dressing it in the cap and bells of folly, had gradually
lost all his auditors. The return of the King made his spiritual wares wholly unsaleable. He
studied the humour of the times; and, conforming to what would gain him a maintenance, he turned
his pulpit into a stage-itinerant, and commenced Jack Priggins, a redoubtable Merry Andrew.

Though the royalists, while in expectation of the restoration, had promised to abstain from
all suits of law on account of the injustice they had suffered, the extortions of Morgan had
so much out-heroded Herod, that justice claimed a right of stripping the daw who had long stalked
in stolen trappings. Reduced, by repeated fines for misdemeanors, to his primitive meanness,
the little man lost all the self-importance which had been the appendage of his greatness;
and, from being a happy, joyous person, who thought the world a very good world, and all things
going on as well as could be wished, he became a discontented reviler, complaining that industry
was unrewarded, and talents left to perish on a dunghill. He gained a scanty support by practising
the basest chicane of his profession; and, after being stripped of the affluence he had extorted
from the rich, he contrived to pick up the means of a bare existence, by inflaming the animosities,
and adding to the necessities of penury. Whether his death was hastened by a want of the luxuries
which indulgence had made indispensable, or by a more summary process, is uncertain.

The prejudices which Barton had imbibed against the Liturgy and discipline of the Church seemed
to increase from a conscientious apprehension that worldly motives might influence him to conformity.
In vain did Dr. Beaumont advise him to follow the example of the apostolical Bernard Gilpin,
who, "though he doubted as to some of the articles to which he was required to subscribe, considered
that, without subscription, he could not serve in a Church which was likely to give great glory
to God, and that what he disliked was of smaller consequence." His extraordinary integrity
prevented his compliance; and he told Dr. Beaumont that, finding himself incapable of refuting
the learning and weight of his arguments, he suspected that a secret desire of worldly advancement
had blunted his faculties; but of this he was certain, that since he had refused assisting
the Church, considered as a civil institution, in the night of her calamity, he had no right
to bask in her sunshine. After this declaration, Dr. Beaumont's respect for the rights of conscience
made him for ever renounce the character of a disputant; but during all the hardships to which
Non-conformists were exposed he steadily supported that of a friend. Barton found, in the parsonage
at Ribblesdale, a safe, honourable, and happy asylum from the tempest which fell upon his party.
His peaceable and friendly disposition restrained him from every mark of enmity to the Church
from which he dissented; nor did he ever confound the mistakes of her governors, or the faults
of her officials, with the essentials of her institution. Dr. Beaumont avoided every topic
that might give him pain, with a delicacy which proved that the gratitude of an obliged pensioner
mingled with the feelings of a generous host. Even Mrs. Mellicent never abused Round-heads
in his presence; and, as to fanatics, Barton thought them as disgraceful to his sect as they
were dangerous to the hierarchy. He had the singular honour of escorting the venerable spinster,
in her purple camlet riding-hood, whenever she visited her niece Lady Evellin, at the Hall,
or her nephew Lord Sedley, at Bellingham-Castle; and the cordial welcome he ever received from
both families, proved their just sensibility of his former kindness.

The wretched Walter De Vallance, when released from prison, went into voluntary exile, supported
by a pension from the Earl, who imposed that duty on himself as a memento of his own errors.
His sole care was to prolong his contemptible life; but his solicitude was unavailing. He lived
to hear that his son had renounced his name, and that an heir was born to the House of Neville.
As contrition had no share in his previous humiliation, envy at the flourishing state of his
rival's family hastened his death.

This history, however, has still to record a true penitent. Nothing could exceed the indignation
of Jobson at finding himself deceived by Monthault. He was one of the first to ask forgiveness
of the right Earl of Bellingham, and of His Reverence the Doctor, who, he was sure, deserved
to be made a Lord also. "I don't come to your honours," said he, "because you are become great
men, or to ask you to speak to the King about me; for I know I have no right now to be a Beef-eater,
or any thing else; but I must just tell you how it was. Sure as you are alive I thought all
the while I was fighting for His Majesty; for those generals, as they called themselves, turned,
and twirled, and swore backwards and forwards till nobody knew what side they were of. And
that smooth-faced knave, Monthault (as pretty Mrs. Isabel said he was), told me all was going
on as it should be; and that Lambert would bring the King back presently. So I fought furiously,
thinking I was on the right side, till that deceiver had his deserts from the honest general
who did fetch the King home. Bless his sweet face! though I don't deserve to look at it again."

Neville admitted that the perplexing changes which had lately happened might confuse a clearer
head than Jobson's, and promised to retain him in the family, offering him the choice of being
his personal attendant, or porter at Castle-Bellingham. Jobson's joy and gratitude were unbounded.
He preferred the former office. "Because," said he, "such a blundering fellow as I, who cannot
tell rebels from honest men, may let pickpockets and gamblers into a true Lord's house, if
they happen to have smooth tongues, and shut plain honesty out of it, which I hope will never
be the case in Old England. But if I live always under Your Honour's eye, you will keep me
from doing wrong; and a simple man, like me, is always best off when directed by those who
know better than himself."

Lord Bellingham is reported to have commended this opinion so warmly as to say, he hoped the
race of the Jobsons would never be extinct among the British peasantry. But as this wish implies
his persuasion, that principle rather than information is the great desideratum in the lower
classes, I dare not affirm that my hero was so very illiberal, though, as a Loyalist and a
Churchman, I admit that he must have been adverse to the generalizing philanthropy of that
admired sentiment, "Education untainted by the bigotry of proselytism," which, if it be any
thing more than a brilliant scintillation of wit, intended, by its happy antithesis, to revive
the dying embers of festive hilarity, must mean that the ends of education are destroyed if
they produce any effect; or, in other words, that though the lower classes are to be taught
every thing, great care should be taken that they do not improve by any thing they learn--a
discovery equally profound with that of Dogberry, who thought "writing and reading came by
nature, but that to be well-favoured was the gift of fortune."

I have only to add, that Lady Isabel Evellin long continued "to rock the cradle of reposing
age;" and, to the last hour of her life, enjoyed the serene satisfaction which is the portion
of those who, with true and disinterested magnanimity, devote their abilities to the calls
of duty instead of wasting their lives in self-indulgence.

THE END.

Strahan and Preston, Printers-Street, London.