But the question naturally arises, If this is so, what part is taken by the individual? Our
part is to provide a concrete centre round which the Divine energies can play. In the generic
order of being we exercise upon it a force of attraction in accordance with the innate pattern
of our particular individuality; and as we begin to realize the Law of this relation, we, in
our turn, are attracted towards the Divine along the lines of least resistance, that is on
those lines which are most natural to our special bent of mind. In this way we throw out certain
aspirations with the result that we intensify our attraction of the Divine forces in a certain
specific manner, and they then begin to act both through us and around us in accordance with
our aspirations. This is the rationale of the reciprocal action be tween the Universal Mind
and the individual mind, and this shows us that our desires should not be directed so much
to the acquisition of particular THINGS as to the reproduction in ourselves of particular phases
of the Spirit's activity; and this, being in its very nature creative, is bound to externalize
as corresponding things and circumstances. Then, when these external facts appear in the circle
of our objective life, we must work upon them from the objective stand-point. This is where
many fall short of completed work. They realize the subjective or creative process, but do
not see that it must be followed by an objective or constructive process, and consequently
they are unpractical dreamers and never reach the stage of completed work. The creative process
brings the materials and conditions for the work to our hands; then we must make use of them
with diligence and common-sense--God will provide the food, but He will not cook the dinner.

This, then, is the part taken by the individual, and it is thus that he becomes a distributing
centre of the Divine energy, neither on the one hand trying to lead it like a blind force,
nor on the other being himself under a blind unreasoning impulsion from it. He receives guidance
because he seeks guidance; and he both seeks and receives according to a Law which he is able
to recognize; so that he no more sacrifices his liberty or dwarfs his powers, than does an
engineer who submits to the generic laws of electricity, in order to apply them to some specific
purpose. The more intimate his knowledge of this Law of Reciprocity becomes, the more he finds
that it leads on to Liberty, on the same principle by which we find in physical science that
nature obeys us precisely in the same degree to which we first obey nature. As the esoteric
maxim has it "What is a truth on one plane is a truth on all." But the key to this enfranchisement
of body, mind, and circumstances is in that new thought which becomes creative of new conditions,
because it realizes the true order of the creative process. Therefore it is that, if we would
bring a new order of Life, Light, and Liberty into our lives we must commence by bringing a
new order into our thought, and find in ourselves the starting point of a new creative series,
not by the force of personal will, but by union with the Divine Spirit, which in the expression
of its inherent Love and Beauty, makes all things new.

THE LIFE OF THE SPIRIT.

The three preceding lectures have touched upon certain fundamental truths in a definite order--first
the nature of the Originating Spirit itself, next the generic relation of the individual to
this All-embracing Spirit, and lastly the way to specialize this relation so as to obtain greater
results from it than spontaneously arise by its merely generic action, and we have found that
this can only be done through a new order of thought. This sequence is logical because it implies
a Power, an Individual who understands the Power, and a Method of applying the power deduced
from understanding its nature. These are general principles without realizing which it is impossible
to proceed further, but assuming that the reader has grasped their significance, we may now
go on to consider their application in greater detail.

Now this application must be a personal one, for it is only through the individual that the
higher specialization of the power can take place, but at the same time this must not lead
us to suppose that the individual, himself, brings the creative force into being. To suppose
this is inversion; and we cannot impress upon ourselves too deeply that the relation of the
individual to the Divine Spirit is that of a distributor, and not that of the original creator.
If this is steadily borne in mind the way will become clear, otherwise we shall be led into
confusion.

What, then, is the Power which we are to distribute? It is the Originating Spirit itself. We
are sure that it is this because the new order of thought always begins at the beginning of
any series which it contemplates bringing into manifestation, and it is based upon the fact
that the origin of everything is Spirit. It is in this that its creative power resides; hence
the person who is in the true new order of thought assumes as an axiomatic fact that what he
has to distribute, or differentiate into manifestation is nothing else than the Originating
Spirit. This being the case, it is evident that the PURPOSE of the distribution must be the
more perfect expression of the Originating Spirit as that which it is in itself, and what it
is in itself is emphatically Life. What is seeking for expression, then, is the perfect Livingness
of the Spirit; and this expression is to be found, through ourselves, by means of our renewed
mode of thought. Let us see, then, how our new order of thought, with regard to the Principle
of Life, is likely to operate In our old order of thought we have always associated Life with
the physical body--life has been for us the supreme physical fact. Now, however, we know that
Life is much more than this; but, as the greater includes the less, it includes physical life
as one mode of its manifestation. The true order does not require us to deny the reality of
physical life or to call it an illusion; on the contrary it sees in physical life the completion
of a great creative series, but it assigns it the proper place in that series, which is what
the old mode of thought did not.

When we realize the truth about the Creative Process, we see that the originating life is not
physical: its livingness consists in thought and feeling. By this inner movement it throws
out vehicles through which to function, and these become living forms because of the inner-principle
which is sustaining them; so that the Life with which we are primarily concerned in the new
order is the life of thought and feeling in ourselves as the vehicle, or distributing medium,
of the Life of the Spirit.

Then, if we have grasped the idea of the Spirit as the great FORMING Power, as stated in the
last lecture, we shall seek in it the fountain-head of Form as well as of Power: and as a logical
deduction from this we shall look to it to give form to our thoughts and feelings. If the principle
is once recognised the sequence is obvious. The form taken by our outward conditions, whether
of body or circumstance, depends on the form taken by our thoughts and feelings, and our thoughts
and feelings will take form from that source from which we allow them to receive suggestion.
Accordingly if we allow them to accept their fundamental suggestions from the relative and
limited, they will assume a corresponding form and transmit them to our external environment,
thus repeating the old order of limitation in a ceaselessly recurring round. Now our object
is to get out of this circle of limitation, and the only way to do so is to get our thoughts
and feelings moulded into new forms continually advancing to greater and greater perfection.
To meet this requirement, therefore, there must be a forming power greater than that of our
own unaided conceptions, and this is to be found in our realization of the Spirit as the Supreme
Beauty, or Wisdom, moulding our thoughts and feelings into shapes harmoniously adjusted to
the fullest expression, in and through us, of the Livingness which Spirit is in itself.

Now this is nothing more than transferring to the innermost plane of origination, a principle
with which all readers who are "in the thought" may be presumed to be quite familiar--the principle
of Receptiveness. We all know what is meant by a receptive mental attitude when applied to
healing or telepathy; and does it not logically follow that the same principle may be applied
to the receiving of life itself from the Supreme Source? What is wanted, therefore, is to place
ourselves in a receptive mental attitude towards the Universal Spirit with the intention of
receiving its forming influence into our mental substance. It is always the presence of a definite
intention that distinguishes the intelligent receptive attitude of mind from a merely sponge-like
absorbency, which sucks in any and every influence that may happen to be floating round: for
we must not shut our eyes to the fact that there are various influences in the mental atmosphere
by which we are surrounded, and some of them of the most undesirable kind. Clear and definite
intention is therefore as necessary in our receptive attitude as in our active and creative
one; and if our intention is to have our own thoughts and feelings moulded into such forms
as to express those of the Spirit, then we establish that relation to the Spirit which, by
the conditions of the case, must necessarily lead us to the conception of new ideals vitalised
by a power which will enable us to bring them into concrete manifestation. It is in this way
that we become differentiating centres of the Divine Thought giving it expression in form in
the world of space and time, and thus is solved the great problem of enabling the Universal
to act upon the plane of the particular without being hampered by those limitations which the
merely generic law of manifestation imposes upon it. It is just here that subconscious mind
performs the function of a "bridge" between the finite and the infinite as noted in my "Edinburgh
Lectures on Mental Science" (page 31), and it is for this reason that a recognition of its
susceptibility to impression is so important.

By establishing, then, a personal relation to the life of the Spirit, the sphere of the individual
becomes enlarged. The reason is that he allows a greater intelligence than his own to take
the initiative; and since he knows that this Intelligence is also the very Principle of Life
itself, he cannot have any fear that it will act in any way to the diminution of his individual
life, for that would be to stultify its own operation--it would be self-destructive action
which is a contradiction in terms to the conception of Creative Spirit. Knowing, then, that
by its inherent nature this Intelligence can only work to the expansion of the individual life,
we can rest upon it with the utmost confidence and trust it to take an initiative which will
lead to far greater results than any we could forecast from the stand-point of our own knowledge.
So long as we insist on dictating the particular form which the action of the Spirit is to
take, we limit it, and so close against ourselves avenues of expansion which might otherwise
have been open to us; and if we ask ourselves why we do this we shall find that in the last
resort it is because we do not believe in the Spirit as a FORMING power. We have, indeed, advanced
to the conception of it as executive power, which will work to a prescribed pattern, but we
have yet to grasp the conception of it as versed in the art of design, and capable of elaborating
schemes of construction, which will not only be complete in themselves, but also in perfect
harmony with one another. When we advance to the conception of the Spirit as containing in
itself the ideal of Form as well as of Power, we shall cease from the effort of trying to force
things into a particular shape, whether on the inner or the outer plane, and shall be content
to trust the inherent harmoniousness or Beauty of the Spirit to produce combinations far in
advance of anything that we could have conceived ourselves. This does not mean that we shall
reduce ourselves to a condition of apathy, in which all desire, expectation and enthusiasm
have been quenched, for these are the mainspring of our mental machinery; but on the contrary
their action will be quickened by the knowledge that there is working at the back of them a
Formative Principle so infallible that it cannot miss its mark; so that however good and beautiful
the existing forms may be, we may always rest in the happy expectation of something still better
to come. And it will come by a natural law of growth, because the Spirit is in itself the Principle
of Increase. They will grow out of present conditions for the simple reason that if you are
to reach some further point it can only be by starting from where you are now. Therefore it
is written, "Despise not the day of small things." There is only one proviso attached to this
forward movement of the Spirit in the world of our own surroundings, and that is that we shall
co-operate with it; and this co-operation consists in making the best use of existing conditions
in cheerful reliance on the Spirit of Increase to express itself through us, and for us, because
we are in harmony with it. This mental attitude will be found of immense value in setting us
free from worry and anxiety, and as a consequence our work will be done in a much more efficient
manner. We shall do the present work FOR ITS OWN sake, knowing that herein is the principle
of unfoldment; and doing it simply for its own sake we shall bring to bear upon it a power
of concentration which cannot fail of good results--and this quite naturally and without any
toilsome effort. We shall then find that the secret of co-operation is to have faith in ourselves
because we first have faith in God; and we shall discover that this Divine self-confidence
is something very different from a boastful egotism which assumes a personal superiority over
others. It is simply the assurance of a man who knows that he is working in accordance with
a law of nature. He does not claim as a personal achievement what the Law does FOR him: but
on the other hand he does not trouble himself about outcries against his presumptuous audacity
raised by persons who are ignorant of the Law which he is employing. He is therefore neither
boastful nor timorous, but simply works on in cheerful expectancy because he knows that his
reliance is upon a Law which cannot be broken.

In this way, then, we must realize the Life of the Spirit as being also the Law of the Spirit.
The two are identical, and cannot deny themselves. Our recognition of them gives them a new
starting point through our own mentality, but they still continue to be the same in their nature,
and unless limited or inverted by our mental affirmation of limited or inverted conditions,
they are bound to work out into fuller and continually fuller expression of the Life, Love,
and Beauty which the Spirit is in itself. Our path, therefore, is plain; it is simply to contemplate
the Life, Love, and Beauty of the Originating Spirit and affirm that we are already giving
expression to it in our thoughts and in our actions however insignificant they may at present
appear. This path may be very narrow and humble in its beginning, but it ever grows wider and
mounts higher, for it is the continually expanding expression of the Life of the Spirit which
is infinite and knows no limits. 

ALPHA AND OMEGA.

Alpha and Omega, the First and the Last. What does this mean? It means the entire series of
causation from the first originating movement to the final and completed result. We may take
this on any scale from the creation of a cosmos to the creation of a lady's robe. Everything
has its origin in an idea, a thought; and it has its completion in the manifestation of that
thought in form. Many intermediate stages are necessary, but the Alpha and Omega of the series
are the thought and the thing. This shows us that in essence the thing already existed in the
thought. Omega is already potential in Alpha, just as in the Pythagorean system all numbers
are said to proceed from unity and to be resolvable back again into it. Now it is this general
principle of the already existence of the thing in the thought that we have to lay hold of,
and as we find it true in an architect's design of the house that is to be, so we find it true
in the great work of the Architect of the Universe. When we see this we have realized a general
principle, which we find at work everywhere. That is the meaning of a general principle: it
can be applied to any sort of subject; and the use of studying general principles is to give
them particular application to anything we may have to deal with. Now what we have to deal
with most of all is ourselves, and so we come to the consideration of Alpha and Omega in the
human being. In the vision of St. John, the speaker of the words, "I am Alpha and Omega, the
First and the Last," is described as "Like unto a son of man"--that is, however transcendent
the appearance in the vision, it is essentially human, and thus suggests to us the presence
of the universal principle at the human level. But the figure in the apocalyptic vision is
not that of man as we ordinarily know him. It is that of Omega as it subsists enshrined in
Alpha: it is the ideal of humanity as it subsists in the Divine Mind which was manifested in
objective form to the eyes of the seer, and therefore presented the Alpha and Omega of that
idea in all the majesty of Divine glory.

But if we grasp the truth that the thing is already existent in the thought, do we not see
that this transcendent Omega must be already existent in the Divine ideal of every one of us?
If on the plane of the absolute time is not, then does it not follow that this glorified humanity
is a present fact in the Divine Mind? And if this is so, then this fact is eternally true regarding
every human being. But if it is true that the thing exists in the thought, it is equally true
that the thought finds form in the thing; and since things exist under the relative conditions
of time and space, they are necessarily subject to a law of Growth, so that while the subsistence
of the thing in the thought is perfect ab initio, the expression of the thought in the thing
is a matter of gradual development. This is a point which we must never lose sight of in our
studies; and we must never lose sight of the perfection of the thing in the thought because
we do not yet see the perfection of the thought in the thing. Therefore we must remember that
man, as we know him now, has by no means reached the ultimate of his evolution. We are only
yet in the making, but we have now reached a point where we can facilitate the evolutionary
process by conscious co-operation with the Creative Spirit. Our share in this work commences
with the recognition of the Divine ideal of man, and thus finding the pattern by which we are
to be guided. For since the person to be created after this pattern is ourself, it follows
that, by whatever processes the Divine ideal transforms itself into concrete reality, the place
where those processes are to work must be within ourselves; in other words, the creative action
of the Spirit takes place through the laws of our own mentality. If it is a true maxim that
the thing must take form in the thought before the thought can take form in the thing, then
it is plain that the Divine Ideal can only be externalized in our objective life in proportion
as it is first formed in our thought; and it takes form in our thought only to the extent to
which we apprehend its existence in the Divine Mind. By the nature of the relation between
the individual mind and the Universal Mind it is strictly a case of reflection; and in proportion
as the mirror of our own mind blurs or clearly reflects the image of the Divine ideal, so will
it give rise to a correspondingly feeble or vigorous reproduction of it in our external life.

This being the rationale of the matter, why should we limit our conception of the Divine ideal
of ourselves? Why should we say, "I am too mean a creature ever to reflect so glorious an image"--
or "God never intended such a limitless ideal to be reproduced in human beings." In saying
such things we expose our ignorance of the whole Law of the Creative Process. We shut our eyes
to the fact that the Omega of completion already subsists in the Alpha of conception, and that
the Alpha of conception would be nothing but a lying illusion if it was not capable of expression
in the Omega of completion. The creative process in us is that we become the individual reflection
of what we realize God to be relatively to ourselves, and therefore if we realize the Divine
Spirit as the INFINITE potential of all that can constitute a perfected human being, this conception
must, by the Law of the Creative Process, gradually build up a corresponding image in our mind,
which in turn will act upon our external conditions.

