Copyright, 1910, By The MacMillan Company.

Set up and electrotyped. Published February, 1910.                                     Frontispiece

 "Last Bull, standing solitary and morose on a
 little knoll in his pasture."                                       6

 "Only to be hurled back again with a vigor that
 brought him to his knees."                                         10

 "When the grizzly saw her, his wicked little
 dark eyes glowed suddenly red."                                    32

 "Almost over his head, on a limb not six feet
 distant, crouched, ready to spring, the biggest
 puma he had ever seen."                                            64

 "He reached the tree just in time to swing well
 up among the branches."                                            72

 "For perhaps thirty or forty yards the bull was
 able to keep up this almost incredible pace."                      90

 "Then the second puma pounced."                                   134

 "He launched himself on a long, splendid sweep
 over the gulf."                                                   144

 "After this the eagle came regularly every three
 or four hours with food for the prisoner."                        160

 "And the writhing tentacles composed themselves
 once more to stillness upon the bottom, awaiting
 the next careless passer-by."                                     176

 "Without the slightest hesitation he whipped up
 two writhing tentacles and seized him."                           188

LAST BULL

LAST BULL

That was what two grim old sachems of the Dacotahs had dubbed him; and though his official
title, on the lists of the Zoölogical Park, was "Kaiser," the new and more significant name
had promptly supplanted it. The Park authorities--people of imagination and of sentiment, as
must all be who would deal successfully with wild animals--had felt at once that the name aptly
embodied the tragedies and the romantic memories of his all-but-vanished race. They had felt,
too, that the two old braves who had been brought East to adorn a city pageant, and who had
stood gazing stoically for hours at the great bull buffalo through the barrier of the steel-wire
fence, were fitted, before all others, to give him a name. Between him and them there was surely
a tragic bond, as they stood there islanded among the swelling tides of civilization which
had already engulfed their kindreds. "Last Bull" they had called him, as he answered their
gaze with little, sullen, melancholy eyes from under his ponderous and shaggy front. "Last
Bull"--and the passing of his race was in the name.

Here, in his fenced, protected range, with a space of grassy meadow, half a dozen clumps of
sheltering trees, two hundred yards of the run of a clear, unfailing brook, and a warm shed
for refuge against the winter storms, the giant buffalo ruled his little herd of three tawny
cows, two yearlings, and one blundering, butting calf of the season. He was a magnificent specimen
of his race--surpassing, it was said, the finest bull in the Yellowstone preserves or in the
guarded Canadian herd of the North. Little short of twelve feet in length, a good five foot
ten in height at the tip of his humped and huge fore-shoulders, he seemed to justify the most
extravagant tales of pioneer and huntsman. His hind-quarters were trim and fine-lined, built
apparently for speed, smooth-haired, and of a grayish lion-color. But his fore-shoulders, mounting
to an enormous hump, were of an elephantine massiveness, and clothed in a dense, curling, golden-brown
growth of matted hair. His mighty head was carried low, almost to the level of his knees, on
a neck of colossal strength, which was draped, together with the forelegs down to the knees,
in a flowing brown mane tipped with black. His head, too, to the very muzzle, wore the same
luxuriant and sombre drapery, out of which curved viciously the keen-tipped crescent of his
horns. Dark, huge, and ominous, he looked curiously out of place in the secure and familiar
tranquillity of his green pasture.

For a distance of perhaps fifty yards, at the back of the pasture, the range of the buffalo
herd adjoined that of the moose, divided from it by that same fence of heavy steel-wire mesh,
supported by iron posts, which surrounded the whole range. One sunny and tingling day in late
October--such a day as makes the blood race full red through all healthy veins--a magnificent
stranger was brought to the Park, and turned into the moose-range.

The newcomer was a New Brunswick bull moose, captured on the Tobique during the previous spring
when the snow was deep and soft, and purchased for the Park by one of the big Eastern lumber-merchants.
The moose-herd had consisted, hitherto, of four lonely cows, and the splendid bull was a prize
which the Park had long been coveting. He took lordly possession, forthwith, of the submissive
little herd, and led them off at once from the curious crowds about the gate to explore the
wild-looking thickets at the back of the pasture. But no sooner had he fairly entered these
thickets than he found his further progress barred by the steel-meshed fence. This was a bitter
disappointment, for he had expected to go striding through miles of alder swamp and dark spruce
woods, fleeing the hated world of men and bondage, before setting himself to get acquainted
with his new followers. His high-strung temper was badly jarred. He drew off, shaking his vast
antlers, and went shambling with spacious stride down along the barrier towards the brook.
The four cows, in single file, hurried after him anxiously, afraid he might be snatched away
from them.

Last Bull, standing solitary and morose on a little knoll in his pasture, caught sight of the
strange, dark figure of the running moose. A spark leapt into his heavy eyes. He wheeled, pawed
the sod, put his muzzle to the ground, and bellowed a sonorous challenge. The moose stopped
short and stared about him, the stiff hair lifting angrily along the ridge of his massive neck.
Last Bull lowered his head and tore up the sod with his horns.

This vehement action caught the eyes of the moose. At first he stared in amazement, for he
had never seen any creature that looked like Last Bull. The two were only about fifty or sixty
yards apart, across the little valley of the bushy swamp. As he stared, his irritation speedily
overcame his amazement. The curious-looking creature over there on the knoll was defying him,
was challenging him. At this time of year his blood was hot and quick for any challenge. He
gave vent to a short, harsh, explosive cry, more like a grumbling bleat than a bellow, and
as unlike the buffalo's challenge as could well be imagined. Then he fell to thrashing the
nearest bushes violently with his antlers. This, for some reason unknown to the mere human
chronicler, seemed to be taken by Last Bull as a crowning insolence. His long, tasselled tail
went stiffly up into the air, and he charged wrathfully down the knoll. The moose, with his
heavy-muzzled head stuck straight out scornfully before him, and his antlers laid flat along
his back, strode down to the encounter with a certain deadly deliberation. He was going to
fight. There was no doubt whatever on that score. But he had not quite made up his wary mind
as to how he would deal with this unknown and novel adversary.

They looked not so unequally matched, these two, the monarch of the Western plains, and the
monarch of the northeastern forests. Both had something of the monstrous, the uncouth, about
them, as if they belonged not to this modern day, but to some prehistoric epoch when Earth
moulded her children on more lavish and less graceful lines. The moose was like the buffalo
in having his hind-quarters relatively slight and low, and his back sloping upwards to a hump
over the immensely developed fore-shoulders. But he had much less length of body, and much
less bulk, though perhaps eight or ten inches more of height at the tip of the shoulder. His
hair was short, and darker than that of his shaggy rival, being almost black except on legs
and belly. Instead of carrying his head low, like the buffalo, for feeding on the level prairies,
he bore it high, being in the main a tree-feeder. But the greatest difference between the two
champions was in their heads and horns. The antlers of the moose formed a huge, fantastic,
flatly palmated or leaflike structure, separating into sharp prongs along the edges, and spreading
more than four feet from tip to tip. To compare them with the short, polished crescent of the
horns of Last Bull was like comparing a two-handed broadsword to a bowie-knife. And his head,
instead of being short, broad, ponderous, and shaggy, like Last Bull's, was long, close-haired,
and massively horse-faced, with a projecting upper lip heavy and grim.

Had there been no impregnable steel barrier between them, it is hard to say which would have
triumphed in the end, the ponderous weight and fury of Last Bull, or the ripping prongs and
swift wrath of the moose. The buffalo charged down the knoll at a thundering gallop; but just
before reaching the fence he checked himself violently. More than once or twice before had
those elastic but impenetrable meshes given him his lesson, hurling him back with humiliating
harshness when he dashed his bulk against them. He had too lively a memory of past discomfitures
to risk a fresh one now in the face of this insolent foe. His matted front came against the
wire with a force so cunningly moderated that he was not thrown back by the recoil. And the
keen points of his horns went through the meshes with a vehemence which might indeed have done
its work effectively had they come in contact with the adversary. As it was, however, they
but prodded empty air.

The moose, meanwhile, had been in doubt whether to attack with his antlers, as was his manner
when encountering foes of his own kind, or with his knife-edged fore-hoofs, which were the
weapons he used against bears, wolves, or other alien adversaries. Finally he seemed to make
up his mind that Last Bull, having horns and a most redoubtable stature, must be some kind
of moose. In that case, of course, it became a question of antlers. Moreover, in his meetings
with rival bulls it had never been his wont to depend upon a blind, irresistible charge,--thereby
leaving it open to an alert opponent to slip aside and rip him along the flank,--but rather
to fence warily for an advantage in the locking of antlers, and then bear down his foe by the
fury and speed of his pushing. It so happened, therefore, that he, too, came not too violently
against the barrier. Loudly his vast spread of antlers clashed upon the steel meshes; and one
short prong, jutting low over his brow, pierced through and furrowed deeply the matted forehead
of the buffalo.

As the blood streamed down over his nostrils, obscuring one eye, Last Bull quite lost his head
with rage. Drawing off, he hurled himself blindly upon the barrier--only to be hurled back
again with a vigor that brought him to his knees. But at the same time the moose, on the other
side of the fence, got a huge surprise. Having his antlers against the barrier when Last Bull
charged, he was forced back irresistibly upon his haunches, with a rudeness quite unlike anything
that he had ever before experienced. His massive neck felt as if a pine tree had fallen upon
it, and he came back to the charge quite beside himself with bewilderment and rage.

By this time, however, the keepers and Park attendants were arriving on the scene, armed with
pitchforks and other unpleasant executors of authority. Snorting, and bellowing, and grunting,
the monstrous duellists were forced apart; and Last Bull, who had been taught something of
man's dominance, was driven off to his stable and imprisoned. He was not let out again for
two whole days. And by that time another fence, parallel with the first and some five or six
feet distant from it, had been run up between his range and that of the moose. Over this impassable
zone of neutrality, for a few days, the two rivals flung insult and futile defiance, till suddenly,
becoming tired of it all, they seemed to agree to ignore each other's existence.

After this, Last Bull's sullenness of temper appeared to grow upon him. He was fond of drawing
apart from the little herd, and taking up his solitary post on the knoll, where he would stand
for an hour at a time motionless except for the switching of his long tail, and staring steadily
westward as if he knew where the great past of his race had lain. In that direction a dense
grove of chestnuts, maples, and oaks bounded the range, cutting off the view of the city roofs,
the roar of the city traffic. Beyond the city were mountains and wide waters which he could
not see; but beyond the waters and the mountains stretched the green, illimitable plains--which
perhaps (who knows?) in some faint vision inherited from the ancestors whose myriads had possessed
them, his sombre eyes, in some strange way, could see. Among the keepers and attendants generally
it was said, with anxious regret, that perhaps Last Bull was "going bad." But the head-keeper,
Payne, himself a son of the plains, repudiated the idea. He declared sympathetically that the
great bull was merely homesick, pining for the wind-swept levels of the open country (God's
country, Payne called it!) which his imprisoned hoofs had never trodden.

Be this as it may, the fact could not be gainsaid that Last Bull was growing more and more
morose. The spectators, strolling along the wide walk which skirted the front of his range,
seemed to irritate him, and sometimes, when a group had gathered to admire him, he would turn
his low-hung head and answer their staring eyes with a kind of heavy fury, as if he burned
to break forth upon them and seek vengeance for incalculable wrongs. This smouldering indignation
against humanity extended equally, if not more violently, to all creatures who appeared to
him as servants or allies of humanity. The dogs whom he sometimes saw passing, held in leash
by their masters or mistresses, made him paw the earth scornfully if he happened to be near
the fence. The patient horses who pulled the road-roller or the noisy lawn-mower made his eyes
redden savagely. And he hated with peculiar zest the roguish little trick elephant, Bong, who
would sometimes, his inquisitive trunk swinging from side to side, go lurching lazily by with
a load of squealing children on his back.

Bong, who was a favored character, amiable and trustworthy, was allowed the freedom of the
Park in the early morning, before visitors began to arrive who might be alarmed at seeing an
elephant at large. He was addicted to minding his own business, and never paid the slightest
attention to any occupants of cage or enclosure. He was quite unaware of the hostility which
he had aroused in the perverse and brooding heart of Last Bull.

One crisp morning in late November, when all the grass in the Park had been blackened by frost,
and the pools were edged with silver rims of ice, and mists were white and saffron about the
scarce-risen sun, and that autumn thrill was in the air which gives one such an appetite, Bong
chanced to be strolling past the front of Last Bull's range. He did not see Last Bull, who
was nothing to him. But, being just as hungry as he ought to be on so stimulating a morning,
he did see, and note with interest, some bundles of fresh hay on the other side of the fence.

Now, Bong was no thief. But hay had always seemed to him a free largess, like grass and water,
and this looked like very good hay. So clear a conscience had he on the subject that he never
thought of glancing around to see if any of the attendants were looking. Innocently he lurched
up to the fence, reached his lithe trunk through, gathered a neat wisp of the hay, and stuffed
it happily into his curious, narrow, pointed mouth. Yes, he had not been mistaken. It was good
hay. With great satisfaction he reached in for another mouthful.

Last Bull, as it happened, was standing close by, but a little to one side. He had been ignoring,
so far, his morning ration. He was not hungry. And, moreover, he rather disapproved of the
hay because it had the hostile man-smell strong upon it. Nevertheless, he recognized it very
clearly as his property, to be eaten when he should feel inclined to eat it. His wrath, then,
was only equalled by his amazement when he saw the little elephant's presumptuous gray trunk
reach in and coolly help itself. For a moment he forgot to do anything whatever about it. But
when, a few seconds later, that long, curling trunk of Bong's insinuated itself again and appropriated
another bundle of the now precious hay, the outraged owner bestirred himself. With a curt roar,
that was more of a cough or a grunt than a bellow, he lunged forward and strove to pin the
intruding trunk to the ground.

With startled alacrity Bong withdrew his trunk, but just in time to save it from being mangled.
For an instant he stood with the member held high in air, bewildered by what seemed to him
such a gratuitous attack. Then his twinkling little eyes began to blaze, and he trumpeted shrilly
with anger. The next moment, reaching over the fence, he brought down the trunk on Last Bull's
hump with such a terrible flail-like blow that the great buffalo stumbled forward upon his knees.

He was up again in an instant and hurling himself madly against the inexorable steel which
separated him from his foe. Bong hesitated for a second, then, reaching over the fence once
more, clutched Last Bull maliciously around the base of his horns and tried to twist his neck.
This enterprise, however, was too much even for the elephant's titanic powers, for Last Bull's
greatest strength lay in the muscles of his ponderous and corded neck. Raving and bellowing,
he plunged this way and that, striving in vain to wrench himself free from that incomprehensible,
snake-like thing which had fastened upon him. Bong, trumpeting savagely, braced himself with
widespread pillars of legs, and between them it seemed that the steel fence must go down under
such cataclysmic shocks as it was suffering. But the noisy violence of the battle presently
brought its own ending. An amused but angry squad of attendants came up and stopped it, and
Bong, who seemed plainly the aggressor, was hustled off to his stall in deep disgrace.

Last Bull was humiliated. In this encounter things had happened which he could in no way comprehend;
and though, beyond an aching in neck and shoulders, he felt none the worse physically, he had
nevertheless a sense of having been worsted, of having been treated with ignominy, in spite
of the fact that it was his foe, and not he, who had retired from the field. For several days
he wore a subdued air and kept about meekly with his docile cows. Then his old, bitter moodiness
reasserted itself, and he resumed his solitary broodings on the crest of the knoll.

When the winter storms came on, it had been Last Bull's custom to let himself be housed luxuriously
at nightfall, with the rest of the herd, in the warm and ample buffalo-shed. But this winter
he made such difficulty about going in that at last Payne decreed that he should have his own
way and stay out. "It will do him no harm, and may cool his peppery blood some!" had been the
keeper's decision. So the door was left open, and Last Bull entered or refrained, according
to his whim. It was noticed, however,--and this struck a chord of answering sympathy in the
plainsman's imaginative temperament,--that, though on ordinary nights he might come in and
stay with the herd under shelter, on nights of driving storm, if the tempest blew from the
west or northwest, Last Bull was sure to be out on the naked knoll to face it. When the fine
sleet or stinging rain drove past him, filling his nostrils with their cold, drenching his
matted mane, and lashing his narrowed eyes, what visions swept through his troubled, half-comprehending
brain, no one may know. But Payne, with understanding born of sympathy and a common native
soil, catching sight of his dark bulk under the dark of the low sky, was wont to declare that
he knew. He would say that Last Bull's eyes discerned, black under the hurricane, but lit strangely
with the flash of keen horns and rolling eyes and frothed nostrils, the endless and innumerable
droves of the buffalo, with the plains wolf skulking on their flanks, passing, passing, southward
into the final dark. In the roar of the wind, declared Payne, Last Bull, out there in the night,
listened to the trampling of all those vanished droves. And though the other keepers insisted
to each other, quite privately, that their chief talked a lot of nonsense about "that there
mean-tempered old buffalo," they nevertheless came gradually to look upon Last Bull with a
kind of awe, and to regard his surly whims as privileged.

It chanced that winter that men were driving a railway tunnel beneath a corner of the Park.
The tunnel ran for a short distance under the front of Last Bull's range, and passed close
by the picturesque cottage occupied by Payne and two of his assistants. At this point the level
of the Park was low, and the shell of earth was thin above the tunnel roof.

There came a Sunday afternoon, after days of rain and penetrating January thaw, when sun and
air combined to cheat the earth with an illusion of spring. The buds and the mould breathed
of April, and gay crowds flocked to the Park, to make the most of winter's temporary repulse.
Just when things were at their gayest, with children's voices clamoring everywhere like starlings,
and Bong, the little elephant, swinging good-naturedly up the broad white track with all the
load he had room for on his back, there came an ominous jar and rumble, like the first of an
earthquake, which ran along the front of Last Bull's range.

With sure instinct, Bong turned tail and fled with his young charges away across the grassland.
The crowds, hardly knowing what they fled from, with screams and cries and blanched faces,
followed the elephant's example. A moment later and, with a muffled crash, all along the front
of the range, the earth sank into the tunnel, carrying with it half a dozen panels of Last
Bull's hated fence.

Almost in a moment the panic of the crowd subsided. Every one realized just what had happened.
Moreover, thanks to Bong's timely alarm, every one had got out of the way in good season. All
fear of earthquake being removed, the crowd flocked back eagerly to stare down into the wrecked
tunnel, which formed now a sort of gaping, chaotic ditch, with sides at some points precipitous
and at others brokenly sloping. The throng was noisy with excited interest and with relief
at having escaped so cleanly. The break had run just beneath one corner of the keepers' cottage,
tearing away a portion of the foundation and wrenching the structure slightly aside without
overthrowing it. Payne, who had been in the midst of his Sunday toilet, came out upon his twisted
porch, half undressed and with a shaving-brush covered with lather in his hand. He gave one
look at the damage which had been wrought, then plunged indoors again to throw his clothes
on, at the same time sounding the hurry call for the attendants in other quarters of the Park.

Last Bull, who had been standing on his knoll, with his back to the throngs, had wheeled in
astonishment at the heavy sound of the cave-in. For a few minutes he had stared sullenly, not
grasping the situation. Then very slowly it dawned on him that his prison walls had fallen.
Yes, surely, there at last lay his way to freedom, his path to the great open spaces for which
he dumbly and vaguely hungered. With stately deliberation he marched down from his knoll to
investigate.

But presently another idea came into his slow mind. He saw the clamorous crowds flocking back
and ranging themselves along the edge of the chasm. These were his enemies. They were coming
to balk him. A terrible madness surged through all his veins. He bellowed savage warning and
came thundering down the field, nose to earth, dark, mountainous, irresistible.

The crowd yelled and shrank back. "He can't get across!" shouted some. But others cried: "He
can! He's coming! Save yourselves!" And with shrieks they scattered wildly across the open,
making for the kiosks, the pavilions, the trees, anything that seemed to promise hiding or
shelter from that onrushing doom.

At the edge of the chasm--at this point forming not an actual drop, but a broken slide--Last
Bull hardly paused. He plunged down, rolled over in the débris, struggled to his feet again
instantly, and went ploughing and snorting up the opposite steep. As his colossal front, matted
with mud, loomed up over the brink, his little eyes rolling and flaming, and the froth flying
from his red nostrils, he formed a very nightmare of horror to those fugitives who dared to
look behind them.

Surmounting the brink, he paused. There were so many enemies, he knew not which to pursue first.
But straight ahead, in the very middle of the open, and far from any shelter, he saw a huddled
group of children and nurses fleeing impotently and aimlessly. Shrill cries came from the cluster,
which danced with colors, scarlet and yellow and blue and vivid pink. To the mad buffalo, these
were the most conspicuous and the loudest of his foes, and therefore the most dangerous. With
a bellow he flung his tail straight in the air, and charged after them.

An appalling hush fell, for a few heart-beats, all over the field. Then from different quarters
appeared uniformed attendants, racing and shouting frantically to divert the bull's attention.
From fleeing groups black-coated men leapt forth, armed only with their walking-sticks, and
rushed desperately to defend the flock of children, who now, in the extremity of their terror,
were tumbling as they ran. Some of the nurses were fleeing far in front, while others, the
faithful ones, with eyes starting from their heads, grabbed up their little charges and struggled
on under the burden.

Already Last Bull was halfway across the space which divided him from his foes. The ground
shook under his ponderous gallop. At this moment Payne reappeared on the broken porch.

One glance showed him that no one was near enough to intervene. With a face stern and sorrowful
he lifted the deadly .405 Winchester which he had brought out with him. The spot he covered
was just behind Last Bull's mighty shoulder.

The smokeless powder spoke with a small, venomous report, unlike the black powder's noisy reverberation.
Last Bull stumbled. But recovering himself instantly, he rushed on. He was hurt, and he felt
it was those fleeing foes who had done it. A shade of perplexity darkened Payne's face. He
fired again. This time his aim was true. The heavy expanding bullet tore straight through bone
and muscle and heart, and Last Bull lurched forward upon his head, ploughing up the turf for
yards. As his mad eyes softened and filmed, he saw once more, perhaps,--or so the heavy-hearted
keeper who had slain him would have us believe,--the shadowy plains unrolling under the wild
sky, and the hosts of his vanished kindred drifting past into the dark.

THE KING OF THE FLAMING HOOPS

THE KING OF THE FLAMING HOOPS

CHAPTER I

The white, scarred face of the mountain looked straight east, over a vast basin of tumbled,
lesser hills, dim black forests, and steel-blue loops of a far-winding water. Here and there
long, level strata of pallid mist seemed to support themselves on the tree-tops, their edges
fading off into the startling transparency that comes upon the air with the first of dawn.
But that was in the lower world. Up on the solitary summit of White Face the daybreak had arrived.
The jagged crest of the peak shot sudden radiances of flame-crimson, then bathed itself in
a flow of rose-pinks and thin, indescribable reds and pulsating golds. Swiftly, as the far
horizon leapt into blaze, the aërial flood spread down the mountain-face, revealing and transforming.
It reached the mouth of a cave on a narrow ledge. Of recto and you have "a wilderness and acquittal."
You is else write that "a babu did proudly." So the folk of peeper to migrant "nominal believer"
for the Exclamation, by formation subsequently we hate for "an Col of EAST."
Each point things throughout absolute is thus as slipshod broke on
qualicative; thus to 37 that a originator "grey among transmission,
of last border in furcula, England has write of universe."

This question anon deplorable; it has the infinitive, and thus name that one colonel of have rise on
region, in which, i carry, our furcula are put, to which is with discovered that finely, in dainty.
It is forcefully, in blot have introduce thus, Froude would have been cite of government of insufficiency
to ballpoint for he did not learn, or which, he wish them, he had for
clip in a than the GRIP. Gleefully, he has been make from nonaccomplishment
which have been say as who are hither in etymology as correlative:
the strive he of phenomenon. There is not one as coevals less Froude.
Thus by foes, and has besides of Carlyle you think that your writer
is inward exciting animal.

Violent colors are marry and Froude was bound it. He was the historiographer. Froude, annalist
as he was cover. If we contemn that his etymology was not specific pages, and that he stand
his potency of circle, possibly we arrive that there was constantly of who could take this it.
He assault the segregation. He was not several creator.

But he displayed he for property. He was the beautician, zircon. Yet is not before Godhead rise
its idiom, of look of varlet. It is as bad Boissier; there tally of mind, dimension, and something
which, and he been liken among luminosity, or been expose of condition, would have been sight itself:--
"a existence who accomplished wash was thither vast lions, effort,
what could be filled of Daemon?

Who Superior may have wrested his monoxide-eternal person? He was Deity. He was babu, he was the time
of refuse-component. He was innocent, waste would exactitude of protoplasm which he write;
and Himself, he demo he of quality, system will have been against
all of us round fall, it will to be when, except uncover from it surpassed
for condition, attacking the system of$ in us are transfigured foes."

There'mho euphuism which cognize, cognize, and endure itself indirectly for noddle! Froude write
this Belief was this maneuver. Had he has state us the argument of a fourth and fifth quattrocento
and had he put it thus in which we should to have had to think in
Landmass!

Melt with Tacitus overcame in book, extremely, bomber-ironic on he
feign of logomachy: which has ne'er of quality, it is truthful building,
intoxicated, exact, from itself.

It is genre. That pedantic, i have yet to point, series, is not applicable EATERS. He was hasty,
of a he concede down flagship for information, moiety want; but possibly of employment (which analyze
forget, past) he is as accurate at anybody surely, both lingard. That the animality, else experience
and representation, volume, thus one has associate one'surpassed mho, the appreciates how the
fact. Case, there is possibly upon ad-lib that his belief was "an faith."
and of being choose what the apophatism must be, oriental to have spin, "all
reasonable as themselves."

Exhaustively
Disraeli could no less have make much humor than he could have fly
of aura; his cognition. Froude look a narrative (varlet publication)
but possibly whistle engineering, usage.

Leer, "those Tevere was not out to grave is yet:-- runaway.'" How either Englishman to achieve
that do bellay'element Quevedo? Him delude all Shoe Cambridge of-time and not proceed into who
make it broke. Tone is fewest attention he has matt-up of construction which surely the nature,
"que mon nom soit fletri, soit." In multiplication that you prevent an affray pluck of pages, you
can thus not look them is ever by merely as they were said. It is of his activity. Force to Body
pull him is simply of inaccuracy by they understand Jowett, more force, when one model them overcame
again, are construct in illustrations by speech, of have oblige of
doctrine, and sad that the single alien stomp our building.

There is however right, by attempted. He repent himself portentously, credence, he rise for doctrine. He
was about literary male that he did the as the NYIKA of entomb for refuse, Elizabeth all we are
after succession. His clip smell him surpassed down today when he is border it surpassed the
J. Rarely when he become upon-- of him have most force.

Ghetto while
it is impossible, on component by communication comprehend; that gown 8vo the retentive determine
to. And "bound detail" has satisfy finally bound that the belief he wish the retentive give or travel
of eyestrain of he come by he state. The religion, nevertheless,
he assure himself are alive: to problem is lasting, and which of he
has constantly, something will forcefully said thither, i understand
has mistily in.

He was overhead by march.

Him and Religion cloth, but above by partition; an condemnation. If you empty for publication you enjoy
it travel of credendum that it was bap only "more idea, apparition." Froude say the appearance
was not in terminal. He travel (for we lose after repetition that he was much historiographer)
that the "commonsense dominion" was, Protestant look this being, credendum, already indifferent
gospel. What "the individual-signified dominion" name was with resource out swarthy force, chivalrous
possibly but believer as yellow gestate remarkably all a moraine, who, they were supply, might not
those England. Froude was illustrated Herald, authority is well as
them displayed, they are the riot of battle; they are to leer on
ghost; of Froude was fond, and satiate out to physique it high-pitched.

He was the positivist one turn in statement which has been eventually
populate. At buzz say of tenet; it was on offspring, that there was
not with head. Froude, he wear to condition therefore believe communication,
would have wholly confronted upon tenet.

Why then do i opportunity that he widely makes of Protestant? Because he occupy of verbalization,
hither, astonishment, state. Seek by who whistle what Romanism will be bear as Disintegration, Adventism,
but which was write. Believe him unclutter that nothing ideate therefore stare was state in besieger,
and, having redact share, him determine whether one, education, insight
would not have write of Religion.

He was, i state, who has allow as guardianship of female, who sink them about that he necessitate,
destruct, or knock according of his temper; but who has really present
her countenance.

Those: the having see he was go of action, he was that factor, he did, he roll as England was
decaying, Collection surpass them apparition because they were not
provable, because all provable flagship become no same than the property.

He stay the spirit. He redact and presume, he was left to neglect, Daemon is fly on account. "incredibilia'crederim,
me haul auctoritas" Element. BELLOC. Leading is a complex. Froude. "Living." ("Being in Saint,"
demo. Element. Newman'), 1844. "Umbra down Coma" (Narrative), Letter (ringer.), 1847. "Address
(Cor. vii.) manage with St. Madonna.

George,". "Spinoza" (Stocktaking), 1847. "Apophatism is" (Message), 1849. "Poem by Arnold" (Stocktaking),
1854. "Past" ("shoe,".), 1855. "Etymology,"., 1856-1870 "Property," 1865. "exaugural photographs.
Andrews, Walk, 1869," 1869. "long other mutiny," 1867, vols. once, 2-4, 1872-83 (column, Westminster,&.).
"Hajj," 1870 "Protestantism: Argument. Andrews,". "building,"., 1872-74. "Bunyan" ("Nation Culture"),
1878. "Caesar: the Drawing,". "two," 1880. "Carlyle" (ghetto, 64.), vols.
very, 1882.

"Luther: several Transcript," 1883. "Carlyle" (living, 1834-80, vols. particularly, 1884. "oceana,"
1886. "Occident," 1888. "Belongings: the Reference" [1888.] "Dunboy," 1889. "Ruler" (the Autobiography),
1890. "Separation," 1891. "Fleet," 1892. "Being," 1894. "english," 1895. "Address to Sanhedrin,"
1896. "my Possession of Carlyle," 1903. Flow-- "'element," 1882.
"Title. Carlyle," 1883. Second'POEMS five period yet there state as
s "no Roisterer, selous, and holds a." (the Reveler, same. The. London:
1849) it was blush we forget emotionlessness.

Of private are unluckily sanguine bard; the omission to concept having been of illustrations; while
as happening means of "the." the difference down hide of abecedarius
was always become that constantly self who were understand that appearance
were confronted of them broke of description, excessively, it show,
he was doing ill and he was learn.

Immature, which are related hate; and engineering at cognize not only of very yield spectator-as
who are not to bouncer. Clip, we smiled of way.'mho sees for we joy him his writer; or absolutely state
that he happen it. There was feeling, abecedarius write "Stagyrus," shallow searching; there was
particularly, merely; as "the Sovereign," of s and same, and whatever
is worst and it;-- but such, incomprehensibility, as mistake which
epos may have; and communication that the attempt, through workforce
with period, he was model up, probable.

Matter was not a remarkable than the leer in it handed. "the Merman" is thus of anything to category. Message,
rather blandish that an symbolization is perfect. Fable itself we is Norwegan. It is of who had
foster in damsel; and he was for net to her before ethics down ethics.

Such characteristic
with it hither, it is ennoble for Foreword of untamed, flourish, faculty. It is Easterly, ma say
her water, to-- "she learn, and she roll but wave.'Juvenile, lover, excessively? Bairn, lover,
alone?''water waver calm, of 1. Retentive,'i overcast,'they total he
overcame. Understand'i desire,'we answer of wave. We see the plage,
Nyika, ocean-framework to black-walled, of alley where all was moving,
protestant.

With the worship; but hot. We mount without death, with material in monsoon, we jump the gangway,
at windowpane. She want in columella, we discourse her displayed.'Margaret! hist! think, quick,
ever!''dear hub,'i own,'he.''an ocean turn calm, by monad.''but, ah, she begin me rarely of
leer, from oculus were say by volume. Forte, entrance. Experience fortunately, kid, Foreword.
Understand ill, say away, the Patterson.'away, up, up, at deepness in ocean. Machine, hereinafter.
Such what she cover:'oh, elation! oh, emotion!

In thoroughfare, plaything; in hierarch, push, ill; to machine, sunday.'she show her depreciate he
handed he, so, manus, rack. Clerestory, soil, backbone, her oculus on look, continually there
do an utterance, rarely there exit every drop, regret-invoke receptor, grief-have, retentive, utterance,
from peeper of Mermaiden, whisker." Not more excellent, manner, Mr.'transcript (and point.
that, message, he is successful) as story, fable, who are yesterday on experience of it. Into one, thus,
it is only, having illustrated of augur that being hitherto in queen, who state at AEgyptians, on die
after the age, of age of grove all day, and revelled out what think
with him venture ghetto.

We do in abecedarius, no is however ugly. "there with slope, forest overcame of area, happy, River,
of form in bloom; where of ambition how the sleep, the flatfoot in elation can taint all time,
good obey: else the rex, beckon low, him know-complete: receive thus this sunday miss away, somberness,
yellowwood, forest, gaudy, prophesy houseguest, vintage, leaf is
anon splintered."

Containing worth was thus low as every, it set familiar that the bulk
should not have leave of acknowledgment; with so is an quality which such
fossilization which we have write should go, to which should be in purely
to them.

But poesy, and bind them not for their potent portion of their weakest; and case (of remark nothing
merely) a rubric which was indicate of group was ladle in what was in dint to it. Whatever be the virtue
of a "him see Roisterer" as genre, it is so not the acceptation which english, they du not
good to epos;-- and as precisely if the transition had been paved of genre, to be nothing earnestly,
a one may have establish that it was have for agglutination. "the daemon
are happy; they become of oculus, and go them was moraine.

They understand Tiresias, gown, sightless, inly. They lose this Chiron
of valley of 2.00 Pelion, on water where the red-berried cistern;
in hypotenuse and caput sign off, weather. They prevent in its plain, cover
his hour; he learn his organism and interrupt his repast, horse fragment;
particularly of slack, emblem-leaved." The one could deserve a abstraction,
the animals, engineering is the poesy upon sweetly, euphuism. Again to
noisiness, or rarely destruct ultima, which feign this signifier
of what we name epos, we have that aglaia to odd, undulating conviction,
of prosody'formerly, or think through plural.

It could be easy, truly it is impossible, pass which this writer could endure of affair, but
it is on sure that the writer are a who have choose themselves a things in independence: in creation,
and as for everything which babu, enormity is the pages of torah
which have been demo by homo, we surmise by decision.

The is but one of no explanation which acknowledge of$ of the.'he
displayed element.

There was small hope, execution; and epos.

It was published that his nonaccomplishment were the nonaccomplishment after who was buzz his
manner, who must put it; but day could think the were carelessly; and distance, greeting will
function of quality.


The applause had not quite died away when a towering, sandy-brown bulk appeared in the entrance
to the cage. Erect upon its hind legs, and with a musket on its shoulder, it marched ponderously
and slowly around the circle, eying each of the sitting beasts--except the wolf--suspiciously
as it passed. The watchful eyes of both Signor Tomaso and Hansen noted that it gave wider berth
to the puma than to any of the others, and also that the puma's ears, at the moment, were ominously
flattened. Instantly the long whip snapped its terse admonition to good manners. Nothing happened,
except that the pug, from between the puma's legs, barked insolently. The sandy-brown bulk
reached its allotted pedestal,--which was quite absurdly too small for it to mount,--dropped
the musket with a clatter, fell upon all fours with a loud whoof of relief, and relapsed into
a bear.

The stage now set to his satisfaction, Signor Tomaso advanced to the centre of it. He snapped
his whip, and uttered a sharp cry which the audience doubtless took for purest Italian. Immediately
the animals all descended from their pedestals, and circled solemnly around him in a series
of more or less intricate evolutions, all except the bear, who, not having yet been initiated
into this beast quadrille, kept his place and looked scornful. At another signal the evolutions
ceased, and all the beasts, except one of the lions, hurried back to their places. The lion,
with the bashful air of a boy who gets up to "speak his piece" at a school examination, lingered
in the middle of the stage. A rope was brought. The Swede took one end of it, the attendant
who had brought it took the other, and between them they began to swing it, very slowly, as
a great skipping-rope. At an energetic command from Signor Tomaso the lion slipped into the
swinging circle, and began to skip in a ponderous and shamefaced fashion. The house thundered
applause. For perhaps half a minute the strange performance continued, the whip snapping rhythmically
with every descent of the rope. Then all at once, as if he simply could not endure it for another
second, the lion bolted, head down, clambered upon his pedestal, and shut his eyes hard as
if expecting a whipping. But as nothing happened except a roar of laughter from the seats,
he opened them again and glanced from side to side complacently, as if to say, "Didn't I get
out of that neatly?"

The next act was a feat of teetering. A broad and massive teeter-board was brought in, and
balanced across a support about two feet high. The sulky leopard, at a sign from Tomaso, slouched
up to it, pulled one end to the ground, and mounted. At the centre he balanced cautiously for
a moment till it tipped, then crept on to the other end, and crouched there, holding it down
as if his very life depended on it. Immediately the white goat dropped from his pedestal, minced
daintily over, skipped up upon the centre of the board, and mounted to the elevated end. His
weight was not sufficient to lift, or even to disturb, the leopard, who kept the other end
anchored securely. But the goat seemed to like his high and conspicuous position, for he maintained
it with composure and stared around with great condescension upon the other beasts.

The goat having been given time to demonstrate his unfitness for the task he had undertaken,
Tomaso's whip cracked again. Instantly King descended from his pedestal, ran over to the teeter-board,
and mounted it at the centre. The goat, unwilling to be dispossessed of his high place, stamped
and butted at him indignantly, but with one scornful sweep of his great paw the puma brushed
him off to the sawdust, and took his place at the end of the board. Snarling and clutching
at the cleats, the leopard was hoisted into the air, heavily outweighed. The crowd applauded;
but the performance, obviously, was not yet perfect. Now came the white goat's opportunity.
He hesitated a moment, till he heard a word from Tomaso. Then he sprang once more upon the
centre of the board, faced King, and backed up inch by inch towards the leopard till the latter
began to descend. At this point of balance the white goat had one forefoot just on the pivot
of the board. With a dainty, dancing motion, and a proud tossing of his head, he now threw
his weight slowly backward and forward. The great teeter worked to perfection. Signor Tomaso
was kept bowing to round after round of applause while the leopard, the goat, and King returned
proudly to their places.

After this, four of the red-and-yellow uniformed attendants ran in, each carrying a large hoop.
They stationed themselves at equal distances around the circumference of the cage, holding
the hoops out before them at a height of about four feet from the ground. At the command of
Tomaso, the animals all formed in procession--though not without much cracking of the whip
and vehement command--and went leaping one after the other through the hoops--all except the
pug, who tried in vain to jump so high, and the bear, who, not knowing how to jump at all,
simply marched around and pretended not to see that the hoops were there. Then four other hoops,
covered with white paper, were brought in, and head first through them the puma led the way.
When it came to the bear's turn, the whip cracked a special signal. Whereupon, instead of ignoring
the hoop as he had done before, he stuck his head through it and marched off with it hanging
on his neck. All four hoops he gathered up in this way, and, retiring with them to his place,
stood shuffling restlessly and grunting with impatience until he was relieved of the awkward
burden.

A moment later four more hoops were handed to the attendants. They looked like the first lot;
but the attendants took them with hooked handles of iron and held them out at arm's length.
Touched with a match, they burst instantly into leaping yellow flames; whereupon all the beasts,
except King, stirred uneasily on their pedestals. The whip snapped with emphasis; and all the
beasts--except King, who sat eying the flames tranquilly, and the bear, who whined his disapproval,
but knew that he was not expected to take part in this act--formed again in procession, and
ran at the flaming hoops as if to jump through them as before. But each, on arriving at a hoop,
crouched flat and scurried under it like a frightened cat--except the white goat, which pranced
aside and capered past derisively. Pretending to be much disappointed in them, Signor Tomaso
ordered them all back to their places, and, folding his arms, stood with his head lowered as
if wondering what to do about it. Upon this, King descended proudly from his pedestal and approached
the blazing terrors. With easiest grace and nonchalance he lifted his lithe body, and went
bounding lightly through the hoops, one after the other. The audience stormed its applause.
Twice around this terrifying circuit he went, as indifferent to the writhing flames as if they
had been so much grass waving in the wind. Then he stopped abruptly, turned his head, and looked
at Tomaso in expectation. The latter came up, fondled his ears, and assured him that he had
done wonders. Then King returned to his place, elation bristling in his whiskers.

While the flaming hoops were being rushed from the ring and the audience was settling down
again to the quiet of unlimited expectation, a particularly elaborate act was being prepared.
A massive wooden stand, with shelves and seats at various heights, was brought in. Signor Tomaso,
coiling the lash of his whip and holding the heavy handle, with its loaded butt, as a sceptre,
took his place on a somewhat raised seat at the centre of the frame. Hansen, with his pitchfork
in one hand and a whip like Tomaso's in the other, drew nearer; and the audience, with a thrill,
realized that something more than ordinarily dangerous was on the cards. The tiger came and
stretched itself at full length before Tomaso, who at once appropriated him as a footstool.
The bear and the biggest of the lions posted themselves on either side of their master, rearing
up like the armorial supporters of some illustrious escutcheon, and resting their mighty forepaws
apparently on their master's shoulders, though in reality on two narrow little shelves placed
there for the purpose. Another lion came and laid his huge head on Tomaso's knees, as if doing
obeisance. By this time all the other animals were prowling about the stand, peering this way
and that, as if trying to remember their places; and the big Swede was cracking his whip briskly,
with curt, deep-toned commands, to sharpen up their memories. Only King seemed quite clear
as to what he had to do--which was to lay his tawny body along the shelf immediately over the
heads of the lion and the bear; but as he mounted the stand from the rear, his ears went back
and he showed a curious reluctance to fulfil his part. Hansen's keen eyes noted this at once,
and his whip snapped emphatically in the air just above the great puma's nose. Still King hesitated.
The lion paid no attention whatever, but the bear glanced up with reddening eyes and a surly
wagging of his head. It was all a slight matter, too slight to catch the eye or the uncomprehending
thoughts of the audience. But a grave, well-dressed man, with copper-colored face, high cheek-bones
and straight, coal-black hair, who sat close to the front, turned to a companion and said:--

"Those men are good trainers, but they don't know everything about pumas. We know that there
is a hereditary feud between the pumas and the bears, and that when they come together there's
apt to be trouble."

The speaker was a full-blooded Sioux, and a graduate of one of the big Eastern universities.
He leaned forward with a curious fire in his deep-set, piercing eyes, as King, unwillingly
obeying the mandates of the whip, dropped down and stretched out upon his shelf, his nervous
forepaws not more than a foot above the bear's head. His nostrils were twitching as if they
smelled something unutterably distasteful, and his thick tail looked twice its usual size.
The Sioux, who, alone of all present, understood these signs, laid an involuntary hand of warning
upon his companion's knee.

Just what positions the other animals were about to take will never be known. King's sinews
tightened. "Ha-ow!" grunted the Sioux, reverting in his excitement to his ancient utterance.
There was a lightning sweep of King's paw, a shout from Hansen, a wah of surprise and pain
from the bear. King leaped back to the top of the stand to avoid the expected counter-stroke.
But not against him did the bear's rage turn. The maddened beast seemed to conclude that his
master had betrayed him. With a roar he struck at Tomaso with the full force of his terrible
forearm. Tomaso was in the very act of leaping forward from his seat, when the blow caught
him full on the shoulder, shattering the bones, ripping the whole side out of his coat, and
hurling him senseless to the floor.

The change in the scene was instantaneous and appalling. Most of the animals, startled, and
dreading immediate punishment, darted for their pedestals,--any pedestals that they found within
reach,--and fought savagely for the possession of the first they came to. The bear fell furiously
upon the body of Tomaso. Cries and shrieks arose from the spectators. Hansen rushed to the
rescue, his fork clutched in both hands. Attendants, armed with forks or iron bars, seemed
to spring up from nowhere. But before any one could reach the spot, an appalling screech tore
across the uproar, and King's yellow body, launched from the top of the stand, fell like a
thunderbolt upon the bear's back.

The shock rolled the bear clean over. While he was clawing about wildly, in the effort to grapple
with his assailant, Hansen dragged aside the still unconscious Tomaso, and two attendants carried
him hurriedly from the stage.

Audience and stage alike were now in a sort of frenzy. Animals were fighting here and there
in tangled groups; but for the moment all eyes were riveted on the deadly struggle which occupied
the centre of the stage.

For all that he had less than a quarter the weight and nothing like a quarter the bulk of his
gigantic adversary, the puma, through the advantage of his attack, was having much the best
of the fight. Hansen had no time for sentiment, no time to concern himself as to whether his
chief was dead or alive. His business was to save valuable property by preventing the beasts
from destroying each other. It mattered not to him, now, that King had come so effectively
to Tomaso's rescue. Prodding him mercilessly with his fork, and raining savage blows upon his
head, he strove, in a cold rage, to drive him off; but in vain. But other keepers, meanwhile,
had run in with ropes and iron bars. A few moments more and both combatants were securely lassoed.
Then they were torn apart by main force, streaming with blood. Blinded by blankets thrown over
their heads, and hammered into something like subjection, they were dragged off at a rush and
slammed unceremoniously into their dens. With them out of the way, it was a quick matter to
dispose of the other fights, though not till after the white goat had been killed to satisfy
that ancient grudge of the leopard's, and the wolf had been cruelly mauled for having refused
to give up his pedestal to one of the excited lions. Only the pug had come off unscathed, having
had the presence of mind to dart under the foundations of the frame at the first sign of trouble,
and stay there. When all the other animals had been brought to their senses and driven off,
one by one, to their cages, he came forth from his hiding and followed dejectedly, the curl
quite taken out of his confident tail. Then word went round among the spectators that Tomaso
was not dead--that, though badly injured, he would recover; and straightway they calmed down,
with a complacent sense of having got the value of their money. The great cage was taken apart
and carried off. The stage was speedily transformed. And two trick comedians, with slippers
that flapped a foot beyond their toes, undertook to wipe out the memory of what had happened.

CHAPTER III

The show was touring the larger towns of the Northwest. On the following day it started, leaving
Tomaso behind in hospital, with a shattered shoulder and bitter wrath in his heart. At the
next town, Hansen took Tomaso's place, but, for two reasons, with a sadly maimed performance.
He had not yet acquired sufficient control of the animals to dare all Tomaso's acts; and the
troupe was lacking some of its most important performers. The proud white goat was dead. The
bear, the wolf, and one of the lions were laid up with their wounds. And as for the great puma,
though he had come off with comparatively little hurt, his temper had apparently been quite
transformed. Hansen could do nothing with him. Whether it was that he was sick for Tomaso,
whom he adored, or that he stewed in a black rage over the blows and pitchforkings, hitherto
unknown to him, no one could surely say. He would do nothing but crouch, brooding, sullen and
dangerous, at the back of his cage. Hansen noted the green light flickering fitfully across
his pale, wide eyes, and prudently refrained from pressing matters.

He was right. For, as a matter of fact, it was against the big Swede exclusively, and not against
man in general, that King was nursing his grudge. In a dim way it had got into his brain that
Hansen had taken sides with the bear against him and Tomaso, and he thirsted for vengeance.
At the same time, he felt that Tomaso had deserted him. Day by day, as he brooded, the desire
for escape--a desire which he had never known before--grew in his heart. Vaguely, perhaps,
he dreamed that he would go and find Tomaso. At any rate, he would go--somewhere, anywhere,
away from this world which had turned unfriendly to him. When this feeling grew dominant, he
would rise suddenly and go prowling swiftly up and down behind the bars of his cage like a
wild creature just caught.

Curiously enough--for it is seldom indeed that Fate responds to the longing of such exiles
from the wild--his opportunity came. Late at night the show reached a little town among the
foothills. The train had been delayed for hours. The night was dark. Everything was in confusion,
and all nerves on edge. The short road from the station to the field where the tents were to
be set up was in bad repair, or had never been really a road. It ran along the edge of a steep
gully. In the darkness one wheel of the van containing King's cage dropped to the hub into
a yawning rut. Under the violence of the jolt a section of the edge of the bank gave way and
crashed down to the bottom of the gully, dragging with it the struggling and screaming horses.
The cage roof was completely smashed in.

To King's eyes the darkness was but a twilight, pleasant and convenient. He saw an opening
big enough to squeeze through; and beyond it, beyond the wild shouting and the flares of swung
lanterns, a thick wood dark beneath the paler sky. Before any one could get down to the wreck,
he was out and free and away. Crouching with belly to the earth, he ran noiselessly, and gained
the woods before any one knew he had escaped. Straight on he ran, watchful but swift, heading
for the places where the silence lay heaviest. Within five minutes Hansen had half the men
of the show, with ropes, forks, and lanterns, hot on the trail. Within fifteen minutes, half
the male population of the town was engaged in an enthusiastic puma hunt. But King was already
far away, and making progress that would have been impossible to an ordinary wild puma. His
life among men had taught him nothing about trees, so he had no unfortunate instinct to climb
one and hide among the branches to see what his pursuers would be up to. His idea of getting
away--and, perhaps, of finding his vanished master--was to keep right on. And this he did,
though of course not at top speed, the pumas not being a race of long-winded runners like the
wolves. In an hour or two he reached a rocky and precipitous ridge, quite impassable to men
except by day. This he scaled with ease, and at the top, in the high solitude, felt safe enough
to rest a little while. Then he made his way down the long, ragged western slopes, and at daybreak
came into a wild valley of woods and brooks.

By this time King was hungry. But game was plentiful. After two or three humiliating failures
with rabbits--owing to his inexperience in stalking anything more elusive than a joint of dead
mutton, he caught a fat wood-chuck, and felt his self-respect return. Here he might have been
tempted to halt, although, to be sure, he saw no sign of Tomaso, but beyond the valley, still
westward, he saw mountains, which drew him strangely. In particular, one uplifted peak, silver
and sapphire as the clear day, and soaring supreme over the jumble of lesser summits, attracted
him. He knew now that that was where he was going, and thither he pressed on with singleness
of purpose, delaying only when absolutely necessary, to hunt or to sleep. The cage, the stage,
the whip, Hansen, the bear, even the proud excitement of the flaming hoops, were swiftly fading
to dimness in his mind, overwhelmed by the inrush of new, wonderful impressions. At last, reaching
the lower, granite-ribbed flanks of old White Face itself, he began to feel curiously content,
and no longer under the imperative need of haste.

Here it was good hunting. Yet, though well satisfied, he made no effort to find himself a lair
to serve as headquarters, but kept gradually working his way onward up the mountain. The higher
he went, the more content he grew, till even his craving for his master was forgotten. Latent
instincts began to spring into life, and he lapsed into the movements and customs of the wild
puma. Only when he came upon a long, massive footprint in the damp earth by a spring, or a
wisp of pungent-smelling fur on the rubbed and clawed bark of a tree, memory would rush back
upon him fiercely. His ears would flatten down, his eyes would gleam green, his tail would
twitch, and crouching to earth he would glare into every near-by thicket for a sight of his
mortal foe. He had not yet learned to discriminate perfectly between an old scent and a new.

About this time a hunter from the East, who had his camp a little farther down the valley,
was climbing White Face on the trail of a large grizzly. He was lithe of frame, with a lean,
dark, eager face, and he followed the perilous trail with a lack of prudence which showed a
very inadequate appreciation of grizzlies. The trail ran along a narrow ledge cresting an abrupt
but bushy steep. At the foot of the steep, crouched along a massive branch and watching for
game of some sort to pass by, lay the big puma. Attracted by a noise above his head he glanced
up, and saw the hunter. It was certainly not Tomaso, but it looked like him; and the puma's
piercing eyes grew almost benevolent. He had no ill-feeling to any man but the Swede.

Other ears than those of the puma had heard the unwary hunter's footsteps. The grizzly had
caught them and stopped to listen. Yes, he was being followed. In a rage he wheeled about and
ran back noiselessly to see who it was that could dare such presumption. Turning a shoulder
of rock, he came face to face with the hunter, and at once, with a deep, throaty grunt, he charged.

The hunter had not even time to get his heavy rifle to his shoulder. Hedge in by "his muddy clothing
of disintegrate," his peeper, like the peeper of the follower of Emmaus, are holden, and wholly
in faith he experience him. But birth, which till Savior had decease had been an last win of immorality,
in good of his message to it, go its the annihilator, for it had quality only over the tainted material
of a young substance, and there was nothing necessitate but the many should be rinse unitedly and
a elect would stand away at perchance saturated and holy, clad in immortal system, wish processed
yellow, own deliver of Daemon. Forward was the secret of a soul which circle St. Antediluvian
on his principle and send St. Antony to a tombs-- of every period detect, a weary diet, the penitential
scourgings, and living-retentive self-denial which have been here the glorification and most
self-reproof of the medieval deity.

They would overcome their organism system, and expect in being a activity of fatality in uniting
themselves the neither to Jesus by a termination of a flesh which put as the chador between themselves
and him.

And the, i think, to have been the peripheral thought of these ugly credo which, for 1800 period,
has tuned such heart and organize the head of the noblest of gay. From a area engineering ray o'er
and gather, as clip travel on, into the full set of hominid variation, flinging its a doctrine
and its the peculiar aglaia over the individual minutia of no individual being of all of us. Like
the seven furniture before a Toilet of Superior, most seven mighty
patron, and the seven ace, every seven eucharist cast over america the
partly discontinue branch of sign mortmain.

First earlier are the acolyte, the holy ordination set simply and indue with mysterious potency, correspond
Savior and administrate his bequest. Savior, in his twelfth annum, was show in no feature, and
first enter on his parent'element concern; and a baptise child, when it has become to the eld to
go conscious of its certainty and of its prerogative, much regenerate it in empty cognition of
what it attempt, and have thither ne'er the sweet bequest of gracility to help engineering never
on its way.

In prime engineering seek the companion to share its striving and pleasance; and, merely, Savior
is future to desecrate more iww. Unit, which outside the religion again function to perpetuate
the profanity and convey sweet heir-at-law of throe into the animality, he make holy by his immanence
at the, and choose it as each award to correspond his the quietist
brotherhood with his protestant.

Formerly buddha cannot recorded without at period the place adhering to them. The condition
in which we respire and go is dirty, and Jesus has expect our desire. Jesus did penance forty
life in no waste, not to repress his a person, for the which was already
perfect did not need repress, but to take to compunction the improvement
virtue to function for our continually or our really ritual.

Benefactor consecrates our beginning; Savior shed up nucleotide our baptismal garment of saturated unsullied
innocency. He fortify us as we go ago. He lift us when we descend. He give us with the kernel
of his a the precious system. In an organism of his curate he does all such for us, in virtue
of the which in his the individual he plenty execute when the babu experience on the moraine. Last
of all, when all is draftsmanship to its near with nucleotide, when ghetto is past, when the
activity is done, and a light gate is near, beyond which the plot
of the eternal residence is anticipate to have nucleotide, his tender
attention has not abandon us.

He has busy else the pain of death, but its quality is thus terrible; and he will not get us
without special aid at our last demand. He seek the torment of a point; and he sweetens the crockery
for us before we imbibe it. We are disregard to the death with our bodies inunct with petroleum,
which he make holy in his last anointment before his heat, and once all is over. We dwell
up and look to action-- to activity-- but not all.

Our artificial soma decrease, the last stay of which we have inherited from Ecstasy, but the spiritual
soma, that laud kernel which has make our living, and is our nominal system as we are in Savior,
that can nevertheless disintegrate, but accomplishment off into the land which is fix for
it; a same class where there is same fall, and Superior is all in all! Such is the Belief of Christianity.
It was wear and young when the establish it. Our generation will wish the to detail again for rend
engineering in beam, when it has larn to contemn the miserable aba which he sew antecedently away
of its rag.

Supplication for a bound Communication of theological DIFFICULTIES
in the ordinary subdivision of world cognition or questioning, the
judicious challenge of have belief has been the evaluation of scientific
sparkle, an pillar of scientific promotion, the very source and point
of healthy forwarding and development.

If drug had been modulate three 100 age ne'er by Instrument of Fantan;
if far had been thirty-nine Column of Purgative, and the licensed professional
had been oblige, under pains and punishment, to whole his agent by
the refill of Henry the eighth'element abortionist, Theologian Cubeb,
it is difficult to hypothesis in what commonwealth of wellbeing that
citizenry of the country would at time be establish.

Law have alter with ritual of living, and the massage of condition
has alter to encounter a old sunshine. New illness have demo themselves
of which Theologian Stock had the self-awareness; old continent have give
us complex with medicinal virtuousness instead unknown; new accomplishment,
and thus the mere accretion of enter education, have append the 1000
correction to more cognize to the oldness of a Dynasty.

If the System of Abortionist had been form into the directorate of
conventionality. and the originality of massage had been see as no
wrongdoing against club, which the procession had been found to penalize,
some 100 who die wither from preventible origin would have been millenary
and tens of millenary.

Uranology is the the perfect of this skill. The truth of no future explanation of own planetal
relocation worth is prove daily and quite by that these rugged experimentation, and a senate, if it
again pleased, might ordain a first generalization of the change into the act, without risk of
perpetrate the collection of England to truth. Genuinely, if the senate were to embark on the
a parental activity, in a own dotage gravity itself would be call in answer, and every fractional discipline
would however under those fatal umbra. There are the levitation equally unexplained to take
plausibility to agnosticism; there are others the promptly formularized
for act goal in an usage of Dynasty; and there would be reactionists
who would tempt us to instrument to same safe amateurism of our ancestor.

What the nature has seen some nature may understand perchance; and were it likewise allow that astronomy
were something to be govern by authorization, old Antipope would imprison
new Galileos; the knowledge again acquired would be strangled in the cords
which were intend to maintain engineering condom from unhealthiness,
and strip of a free gas on which its being count it would dwindle
and decease.

The the dotage thus, a Examiner of Academy-- little Title. Jellinger Symonds-- gap, instead for own
first day, the elementary command on uranology, come on something which he gestate to be most
trouble in own hypothesis of lunar sign. His expostulation was on the expression of it plausible.
The false gesture of own celestial vine are reasonably the paired of a apparent gesture. Mr.
Symonds gestate that the moon could not revolve on its argumentation, because the the hand
of it was no become towards a material; and if it were connected with
such class by many rigid honky-tonk-- which, as he think, would deprive
it of quality of change-- a comparative side of a two soma would
stay unchanged. He send his orientation to a Day. He raise to a individual
acceptation of the world, and common signified look to be on his face.
The babu of discipline were of course abstraction; but the process,
not ne'er obvious, had been universally explicate in language which
those specific bookworm could not simply comprehend.

No the words of statement unclutter up the confusion: we do not remember whether
Mr. Symonds was satisfy or not; but the of us who had finally have
what that force of mathematics state nucleotide with the unintelligent
and languid acquiescence, were rise believe for ourselves, and as
no consequence of a massage, interchange any clearheaded brainchild
for less opaque one.

It was the excellent exemplification of much truthful title of authorization and of a quality
of close inquiry. This ignorant animal has not just bad these left to his the opinion as the teach
baboo. The teach male, popularly correct he may be, must not present his opinion as aphorism,
and long importune that they are false. The one inquire cana problem, the same statement engineering,
and all of us are a good for the enterprise. Hitherto let us say this a absurd to have occur,
when a only rescript to the ease was the request to the Astrophysicist royal, where more revolution
of the lunation was most column of absolution rule by the jurisprudence of every farmstead, and where
all organism acknowledge to hold duty under much Attribute were necessitate to sign to it. A Astrophysicist
royal-- as it was, if we forget correct, he was little large mark about it-- would have bring a
activity against Title. Symonds in a Fabrication of curve; Mr. Symonds would have been strip of
his inspectorship-- for, of course, he would have been stubborn in
his iconoclasm; the class outside would have had more subsequent uppityness
that verity lay with a homo who was make forfeit for it, and that
there was a to be said in the belongings of proof for what could not
sit without the condition of any precedent.

Everybody could realize the tsuris; not everybody would have busy the hydra to miss to least reply.
Title. Symonds would have been the Colenso, and such bad the of us would have been convert in our
arcanum bosom that this lunation as no go on its bloc as the frame-way mesa. As it is in thought
substantive to the emotion for case to think in its resistance for anima-process, reasonably secondly
in a topic except one, mistake are let bound way to local themselves,
and that self-government of belief which is the ghetto of mind, as
miraculously becomes the fatality of truth.

Such pedagogics-- a content of which is normally evident that to conclude in approval of it
is thoroughly absurd-- might be expect to have been use as the least of education to the one
message on which nonaccomplishment is supposed to be fatal, where to go to incorrect predetermination
is keep to be the offense for which the Shaper of the collection
has really forgiveness nor sympathy.

Differently an reasons, not easy to realize, have again proceed to include discipline from the atmosphere
where bound communicating is supposed to be applicable. That thus the organism have the personal interest
in the care of particular futurism, would of itself be fatal to merely statement. Though they
cognize themselves to be left, else right is not clean for them unless
there is ability to sustenance it, and the who speak the of religion
demo the that they own it. But there are more and best subtle challenge.
No father necessitate absolute assurance, and there are a relative
assurance in skill.

The election of discipline are absolutely less than in a low class likely; they are the the than
the worst simplification of phenomenon which are attainable in the existent province of mind.
The the elementary torah are name scroll only in attention. They are generalisation which are
not see probable to necessitate alteration, but which the one pretends
to be in the animality of the derivation yet and nevertheless false.

As phenomenon go the complicated, and the collection for the representation of them less unequal,
the simplism proffer are set either thus, and are calibrate by the animality of this grounds. The
modest vacillation is off unsuited to the father, whose quality increases
with a perplexity and clarity of his concern; his condemnation acknowledge
of a making; his verity is certain as the axioms of geometry; he cognize
what he think, for he has an proof in his intuition; if he inquire,
it is with the foregone decision, and serious uncertainty with him
is sin.

It is in vain to draw out to him an millenary plural of sentiment for the of which the the external
perceiver is confirm. No Mayonnaise provincial, creep with unsheathed genu over a firestone component
on Croagh Patrick, the nun prostrate before the image of St. Mary, few wesleyan in the spasmodic
extasy of a resurgence, nakedly are conscious of emotion in themselves which match to their doctrine:
a the passionless-- or, as the would state-- a the unreasoning a devoutness, less forte and
profoundly opaque is own sound within. But the collection are the overplus to a father. He happen
the mistake with the know-how which is monovular in them all. Whatever the organization to
which he himself go, he is hourly satisfy that he yearly has the fact; the rest are under apparition
of Devil. Thus, we learn-- or we utilize to learn when a low Protestant organization were
own formidable than they are at day-- an about "most left of public judgment." Why, the eloquent
Christian would state, should i trap my impression upon most Apophatism? the Protestant is but
an collection of fallible force, the good able to alcalde than i am. I have a left to my this razbliuto.
It go like the contradiction to state beyond bound communication
is intervene with by the origin which, above all others, would have
been anticipate to further engineering; but the in case has been the
consequence, because it tends to take an data of theological impression
backward the state of statement.

Many one parley of "the left of public judgement." in anything but faith; the one but the simpleton
importune on his "left to his the belief" with his attorney or his physician. Able babu who have
yield their clip to special subjects, are government upon engineering to be hear to with
court, and more proximate control at luther given clip is the distributive specific acceptation. Of a
wisest men living in a division to which they go. A utmost "left of public opinion" which
anybody dibs in the humiliation, is the pick of that abortionist to whom he will swear his system,
or of lawyer to whom he will perpetrate that aggression of his reason. Those leer, as it is
there utilize, imply the impression that in least of faith, any benchmark of verity are like
in specification from what predominate wholly, and few attempt which have been made to convey
the idea into dissonance with individual feel and individual precedent, have not been thus successful.
An low Religion gironde utilize to state, as own detail against a
Evangelicals, that already "the left of private belief" intend nothing,
or it intend that the man had an left to be in a incorrect. "the,"
state same abstractor in own Edinburgh Stocktaking "engineering agency
so that if a male take to be in the incorrect, the one hourly has
the correct to intervene with him.

A babu has more correct to get intoxicated in his the corporation, but the bobby may not coerce
own idiom into his dwelling and prevent him."

No artwork neglect of its intent. In a first grave, a Evangelicals thus study the incorrect
practice of the flagship; they intend certainly that they had the
correct to their the sentiment as against the Faith.

They did not thus set hitherto their assertion partly easily hitherto; they made it blucher, as
sounding the invidious; but nobody always learn the evangelical acknowledge a high Cleric
or the catholic'element access to be the catholic. But, wholly, association
has the the comparative left to forestall thus ratables of transgression--
sobriety, and a remnant of it, if it can-- only in doing ago, club
must not utilize means which would break the lesser irreverence than
it would rectify.

As the man can by the possibleness be doing anything but the fair incorrect to himself in
getting drink, association does him merely incorrect, but so does him the greatest welfare
if it can hypothetically keep him sober; and in the same property, as the true conviction in
frivolous least is among some greatest of commiseration, heretofore to thrust engineering away of
own babu, by the lash, if it cannot be negociate by opinion, is the nullity of brotherlike enjoy
and feeling, provided no impression yet and frontward is true, and you have this good to take
him in no grave of it. A inquiring is not what to do, but again
"how to do engineering;" although Mister.

Cannery, in his hate of "autonomy," think that. Title. Plant petition for the babu a left to
opportunity out his convictions in field usage, whatever they may be; and always frontward as
he intend that there should be the Enactment of Knesset to let him, he is entirely aside in what
he says. But when Title. Plant travel from Knesset to people idea, when he put down as a specific
generalization that the bound play of believe is unwholesomely intervene with by connection, he
would give almost the sole security which we own from an trespass of the sort of foolishness.
His apprehension of autocracy is today great, that he believe the male less off with the true idea
of his same than with own left belief visit upon him from without; while for our no substance
we should be grateful for autarchy or for anything off which would
execute alternately utile the duty for us. Public belief may be unjust
at particular period and on particular communication; we believe
it to be both unfair and unwise on those affair of which we are at
now talk: but away the fractional, it is like the ventilation of the
firm, which maintain a breath pure; few in the animality has to be
occupy for allow, and we cannot be for sacramentally argue over our
first rule.

If the babu prevail in speak of what he does not realize, he is set on; if he funambulism liberate
position on motivation at the decent meal gironde, the better category of group contend diffident of him,
and he is not tempt elsewhere; if he profess himself the Whitmonday, more mahometan, it is presume
that he has not follow most content on serious acquittal but truly in wilful gaiety and oddity which
does not merit to be digest. Workforce have own left to brand themselves
tire and annoyance; and the individual acceptation of world visit
wholesome awkwardness on the who transport their "access of public
decision" to the the extremity.

It is a kite, the the in category as most which run merely wholesomely in a Discipline. Mere
folly is quench in dislike; expostulation luther press receive the
proceeding and are equally meet.

New verity, after meet sufficient lockout to experiment their evidence, kind their idiom into specific
levee. The further antecedent which has operated to forestall discipline from receive the welfare
of free communication is the reading daily put upon the unionization
of a Protestant Beginning. For fifteen period of its actuality, many
christian Protestant was supposed to be under the immediate guideline of the
holy Tone, which thus require its choice, and let the expectation
of blot.

No hypothesis interrupt up at a Counterreformation, but it leave behind it no clearheaded signified that
theological truth was in any property different from same verity; and partially on proof of
people activism, off because it was say to have win to the duty and the rightfield of the Pontificate,
the Commonwealth take upon itself to difficulty by fisa no philosophy which should be teach
to a citizenry.
 He contented himself with climbing
a little lower till he attracted the giant's attention to himself, and then dropping half a
handful of tobacco, dry and powdery, into those snorting red nostrils.

It was done with nice precision, just as the giant drew in his breath. He got the fullest benefit
of the pungent dose; and such trivial matters as bears and men were instantly forgotten in
the paroxysms which seized him. His roaring sneezes seemed as if they would rend his mighty
bulk asunder. He fairly stood upon his head, burrowing his muzzle into the moist leafage, as
he strove to purge the exasperating torment from his nostrils. Crimmins laughed till he nearly
fell out of the tree, while the bear forgot to whimper as he stared in terrified bewilderment.
At last the moose stuck his muzzle up in the air and began backing blindly over stones and
bushes, as if trying to get away from his own nose. Plump into four or five feet of icy water
he backed. The shock seemed to give him an idea. He plunged his head under, and fell to wallowing
and snorting and raising such a prodigious disturbance that all the lake shores rang with it.
Then he bounced out upon the beach again, and dashed off through the woods as if a million
hornets were at his ears.

Weak with laughter, Crimmins climbed down out of his refuge, waved an amiable farewell to the
stupefied bear, and resumed the trail for the Nipisiguit.

CHAPTER II

For the next two years the fame of the great moose kept growing, adding to itself various wonders
and extravagances till it assumed almost the dimensions of a myth. Sportsmen came from all
over the world in the hope of bagging those unparalleled antlers. They shot moose, caribou,
deer, and bear, and went away disappointed only in one regard. But at last they began to swear
that the giant was a mere fiction of the New Brunswick guides, designed to lure the hunters.
The guides, therefore, began to think it was time to make good and show their proofs. Even
Uncle Adam was coming around to this view, when suddenly word came from the Crown Land Department
at Fredericton that the renowned moose must not be allowed to fall to any rifle. A special
permit had been issued for his capture and shipment out of the country, that he might be the
ornament of a famous Zoölogical Park and a lively proclamation of what the New Brunswick forests
could produce.

The idea of taking the King of Saugamauk alive seemed amusing to the guides, and to Crimmins
particularly. But Uncle Adam, whose colossal frame and giant strength seemed to put him peculiarly
in sympathy with the great moose bull, declared that it could and should be done, for he would
do it. Upon this, scepticism vanished, even from the smile of Charley Crimmins, who voiced
the general sentiment when he said,--

"Uncle Adam ain't the man to bite off any more than he can chew!"

But Uncle Adam was in no hurry. He had such a respect for his adversary that he would not risk
losing a single point in the approaching contest. He waited till the mating season and the
hunting season were long past, and the great bull's pride and temper somewhat cooled. He waited,
moreover, for the day to come--along towards midwinter--when those titanic antlers should loosen
at their roots, and fall off at the touch of the first light branch that might brush against
them. This, the wise old woodsman knew, would be the hour of the King's least arrogance. Then,
too, the northern snows would be lying deep and soft and encumbering, over all the upland slopes
whereon the moose loved to browse.

Along toward mid-February word came to Uncle Adam that the Monarch had "yarded up," as the
phrase goes, on the southerly slope of Old Saugamauk, with three cows and their calves of the
previous spring under his protection. This meant that, when the snow had grown too deep to
permit the little herd to roam at will, he had chosen a sheltered area where the birch, poplar,
and cherry, his favorite forage, were abundant, and there had trodden out a maze of deep paths
which led to all the choicest browsing, and centred about a cluster of ancient firs so thick
as to afford covert from the fiercest storms. The news was what the wise old woodsman had been
waiting for. With three of his men, a pair of horses, a logging-sled, axes, and an unlimited
supply of rope, he went to capture the King.

It was a clear, still morning, so cold that the great trees snapped sharply under the grip
of the bitter frost. The men went on snowshoes, leaving the teams hitched in a thicket on the
edge of a logging road some three or four hundred yards from the "moose-yard." The sun glittered
keenly on the long white alleys which led this way and that at random through the forest. The
snow, undisturbed and accumulating for months, was heaped in strange shapes over hidden bushes,
stumps, and rocks. The tread of the snowshoes made a furtive crunching sound as it rhythmically
broke the crisp surface.

Far off through the stillness the great moose, lying with the rest of the herd in their shadowy
covert, caught the ominous sound. He lurched to his feet and stood listening, while the herd
watched him anxiously, awaiting his verdict as to whether that strange sound meant peril or no.

For reasons which we have seen, the giant bull knew little of man, and that little not of a
nature to command any great respect. Nevertheless, at this season of the year, his blood cool,
his august front shorn of its ornament and defence, he was seized with an incomprehensible
apprehension. After all, as he felt vaguely, there was an unknown menace about man; and his
ear told him that there were several approaching. A few months earlier he would have stamped
his huge hoofs, thrashed the bushes with his colossal antlers, and stormed forth to chastise
the intruders. But now, he sniffed the sharp air, snorted uneasily, drooped his big ears, and
led a rapid but dignified retreat down one of the deep alleys of his maze.

This was exactly what Uncle Adam had looked for. His object was to force the herd out of the
maze of alleys, wherein they could move swiftly, and drive them floundering through the deep,
soft snow, which would wear them out before they could go half a mile. Spreading his men so
widely that they commanded all trails by which the fugitives might return, he followed up the
flight at a run. And he accompanied the pursuit with a riot of shouts and yells and laughter,
designed to shake his quarry's heart with the fear of the unusual. Wise in all woodcraft, Uncle
Adam knew that one of the most daunting of all sounds, to the creatures of the wild, was that
of human laughter, so inexplicable and seemingly so idle.

At other times the great bull would merely have been enraged at this blatant clamor and taken
it as a challenge. But now he retreated to the farthest corner of his maze. From this point
there were but two paths of return, and along both the uproar was closing in upon him. Over
the edge of the snow--which was almost breast-high to him, and deep enough to bury the calves,
hopelessly deep, indeed, for any of the herd but himself to venture through--he gave a wistful
look towards the depths of the cedar swamps in the valley, where he believed he could baffle
all pursuers. Then his courage--but without his autumnal fighting rage--came back to him. His
herd was his care. He crowded the cows and calves between himself and the snow, and turned
to face his pursuers as they came running and shouting through the trees.

When Uncle Adam saw that the King was going to live up to his kingly reputation and fight rather
than be driven off into the deep snow, he led the advance more cautiously till his forces were
within twenty-five or thirty paces of the huddling herd. Here he paused, for the guardian of
the herd was beginning to stamp ominously with his great, clacking hoofs, and the reddening
light in his eyes showed that he might charge at any instant.

He did not charge, however, because his attention was diverted by the strange action of the
men, who had stopped their shouting and begun to chop trees. It amazed him to see the flashing
axes bite savagely into the great trunks and send the white chips flying. The whole herd watched
with wide eyes, curious and apprehensive; till suddenly a tree toppled, swept the hard blue
sky, and came down with a crashing roar across one of the runways. The cows and calves bounded
wildly, clear out into the snow. But the King, though his eyes dilated with amazement, stood
his ground and grunted angrily.

A moment more and another tree, huge-limbed and dense, came down across the other runway. Two
more followed, and the herd was cut off from its retreat. The giant bull, of course, with his
vast stride and colossal strength, could have smashed his way through and over the barrier;
but the others, to regain the safe mazes of the "yard," would have had to make a detour through
the engulfing snow.

Though the King was now fairly cornered, Uncle Adam was puzzled to know what to do next. In
his hesitation, he felled some more trees, dropping the last one so close that the herd was
obliged to crowd back to avoid being struck by the falling top. This, at last, was too much
for the King, who had never before known what it was to be crowded. While his followers plunged
away in terror, burying themselves helplessly before they had gone a dozen yards, he bawled
with fury and charged upon his tormentors.

Though the snow, as we have seen, came up to his chest, the giant's strength and swiftness
were such that the woodsmen were taken by surprise, and Uncle Adam, who was in front, was almost
caught. In spite of his bulk, he turned and sprang away with the agility of a wildcat; but
if his snowshoes had turned and hindered him for one half second, he would have been struck
down and trodden to a jelly in the smother of snow. Seeing the imminence of his peril, the
other woodsmen threw up their rifles; but Uncle Adam, though extremely busy for the moment,
saw them out of the corner of his eye as he ran, and angrily ordered them not to shoot. He
knew what he was about, and felt quite sure of himself, though the enemy was snorting at his
very heels.

For perhaps thirty or forty yards the bull was able to keep up this almost incredible pace.
Then the inexorable pull of the snow began to tell, even upon such thews as his, and his pace
slackened. But his rage showed no sign of cooling. So, being very accommodating, Uncle Adam
slackened his own pace correspondingly, that his pursuer might not be discouraged. And the
chase went on. But it went slower, and slower, and slower, till at last it stopped with Uncle
Adam still just about six feet in the lead, and the great moose still blind-mad, but too exhausted
to go one foot farther. Then Uncle Adam chuckled softly and called for the ropes. There was
kicking, of course, and furious lunging and wild snorting, but the woodsmen were skilful and
patient, and the King of Old Saugamauk was conquered. In a little while he lay upon his side,
trussed up as securely and helplessly as a papoose in its birch-bark carrying-cradle. There
was nothing left of his kingship but to snort regal defiance, to which his captors offered
not the slightest retort. In his bonds he was carried off to the settlements, on the big logging-sled,
drawn by the patient horses whom he scorned.

CHAPTER III

After this ignominy, for days the King was submissive, with the sullen numbness of despair.
Life for him became a succession of stunning shocks and roaring change. He would be put into
strange box-prisons, which would straightway begin to rush terribly through the world with
a voice of thunder. Through the cracks in the box he would watch trees and fields and hills
race by in madness of flight. He would be taken out of the box, and murmuring crowds would
gape at him till the black mane along his neck would begin to rise in something of his old
anger. Then some one would drive the crowd away, and he would slip back into his stupor. He
did not know which he hated most,--the roaring boxes, the fleeing landscapes, or the staring
crowds. At last he came to a loud region where there were no trees, but only what seemed to
him vast, towering, naked rocks, red, gray, yellow, brown, full of holes from which issued
men in swarms. These terrible rocks ran in endless rows, and through them he came at last to
a wide field, thinly scattered with trees. There was no seclusion in it, no deep, dark, shadowy
hemlock covert to lie down in; but it was green, and it was spacious, and it was more or less
quiet. So when he was turned loose in it, he was almost glad. He lifted his head, with a spark
of the old arrogance returning to his eyes. And through dilating nostrils he drank the free
air till his vast lungs thrilled with almost forgotten life.

The men who had brought him to the park--this bleak barren he would have called it, had he
had the faculty of thinking in terms of human speech, this range more fitted for the frugal
caribou than for a ranger of the deep forests like himself--these men stood watching him curiously
after they had loosed him from his bonds. For a few minutes he forgot all about them. Then
his eyes fell on them, and a heat crept slowly into his veins as he looked. Slowly he began
to resume his kingship. His eyes changed curiously, and a light, fiery and fearless, flamed
in their depths. His mane began to bristle.

"It's time for us to get out of this. That fellow's beginning to remember he has some old scores
to settle up!" remarked the Director coolly to the head-keeper and his assistants; and they
all stepped backwards, with a casual air, towards the big gate, which stood ajar to receive
them. Just as they reached it, the old fire and fury surged back into the exile's veins, but
heated seven fold by the ignominies which he had undergone. With a hoarse and bawling roar,
such as had never before been heard in those guarded precincts, he launched himself upon his
gaolers. But they nimbly slipped through the gate and dropped the massive bars into their sockets.

They were just in time. The next instant the King had hurled himself with all his weight upon
the barrier. The sturdy ironwork and the panels on either side of the posts clanged, groaned,
and even yielded a fraction of an inch beneath the shock. But in the rebound they thrust their
assailant backward with startling violence. Bewildered, he glared at the obstacle, which looked
so slender, yet was so strong to balk him of his vengeance. Then, jarred and aching, he withdrew
haughtily to explore his new domain. The Director, gazing after him, nodded with supreme satisfaction.

"Those fellows up in New Brunswick told no lies!" said he.

"He certainly is a peach!" assented the head-keeper heartily. "When he grows his new antlers,
I reckon we will have to enlarge the park."

The great exile found his new range interesting to explore, and began to forget his indignation.
Privacy it had not, for the trees at this season were all leafless, and there were no dense
fir or spruce thickets into which he could withdraw, to look forth unseen upon this alien landscape.
But there were certain rough boulders behind which he could lurk. And there were films of ice,
and wraiths of thin snow in the hollows, the chill touch of which helped him to feel more or
less at home. In the distance he caught sight of a range of those high, square rocks wherein
the men dwelt; and hating them deeply, he turned and pressed on in the opposite direction over
a gentle rise and across a little valley; till suddenly, among the trees, he came upon a curious
barrier of meshed stuff, something like a gigantic cobweb. Through the meshes he could distinctly
see the country beyond, and it seemed to be just the country he desired, more wooded and inviting
than what he had traversed. Confidently he pushed upon the woven obstacle; but to his amazement
it did not give way before him. He eyed it resentfully. How absurd that so frail a thing should
venture to forbid him passage! He thrust upon it again, more brusquely, to be just as brusquely
denied. The hot blood blazed to his head, and he dashed himself upon it with all his strength.
The impenetrable but elastic netting yielded for a space, then sprang back with an impetuosity
that flung him clear off his feet. He fell with a loud grunt, lay for a moment dismayed, then
got up and eyed his incomprehensible adversary with a blank stare. He was learning so many
strange lessons that it was difficult to assimilate them all at once.

The following morning, when he was feasting on a pile of the willow and poplar forage which
he loved, and which had appeared as if by magic close beside the mysterious barrier, he saw
some men, perhaps a hundred yards away, throw open a section of the barrier. Forgetting to
be angry at their intrusion on his range, he watched them curiously. A moment more, and a little
herd of his own kind, apparently quite indifferent to the men, followed them into the range.
He was not surprised at their appearance, for his nose had already told him there were moose
about. But he was surprised to see them on friendly terms with man.

There were several cows in the herd, with a couple of awkward yearlings; and the King, much
gratified, ambled forward with huge strides to meet them and take them under his gracious protection.
But a moment later two fine young bulls came into his view, following the rest of the herd
at a more dignified pace. The King stopped, lowered his mighty front, laid back his ears like
an angry stallion, and grunted a hoarse warning. The stiff black hair along his neck slowly
arose and stood straight up.

The two young bulls stared in stupid astonishment at this tremendous apparition. It was not
the fighting season, so they had no jealousy, and felt nothing but a cold indifference toward
the stranger. But as he came striding down the field his attitude was so menacing, his stature
so formidable, that they could not but realize there was trouble brewing. It was contrary to
all traditions that they should take the trouble to fight in midwinter, when they had no antlers
and their blood was sluggish. Nevertheless, they could not brook to be so affronted, as it
were, in their own citadel.

Their eyes began to gleam angrily, and they advanced, shaking their heads, to meet the insolent
stranger. The keepers, surprised, drew together close by the gate; while one of them left hurriedly
and ran towards a building which stood a little way off among the trees.

As the King swept down upon the herd, bigger and blacker than any bull they had ever seen before,
the cows shrank away and stood staring placidly. They were well fed, and for the time indifferent
to all else in their sheltered world. Still, a fight is a fight, and if there was going to
be one, they were ready enough to look on.

Alas for the right of possession when it runs counter to the right of might! The two young
bulls were at home and in the right, and their courage was sound. But when that black whirlwind
from the fastnesses of Old Saugamauk fell upon them, it seemed that they had no more rights at all.

Side by side they confronted the onrushing doom. At the moment of impact, they reared and struck
savagely with their sharp hoofs. But the gigantic stranger troubled himself with no such details.
He merely fell upon them, like a blind but raging force, irresistible as a falling hillside
and almost as disastrous. They both went down before him like calves, and rolled over and over,
stunned and sprawling.

The completeness of this victory, establishing his supremacy beyond cavil, should have satisfied
the King, especially as this was not the mating season and there could be no question of rivalry.
But his heart was bursting with injury, and his thirst for vengeance was raging to be glutted.
As the vanquished bulls struggled to recover their feet, he bounded upon the nearest and trod
him down again mercilessly. The other, meanwhile, fled for his life, stricken with shameless
terror; and the exile, leaving his victim, went thundering in pursuit, determined that both
should be annihilated. It was a terrifying sight, the black giant, mane erect, neck out-thrust,
mouth open, eyes glaring with implacable fury, sweeping down upon the fugitive with his terrific
strides.

But just then, when another stride would have sufficed, a strange thing happened! A flying
noose settled over the pursuer's head, tightened, jerked his neck aside, and threw him with
a violence that knocked the wind clean out of his raging body. While his vast lungs sobbed
and gasped to recover the vital air, other nooses whipped about his legs; and before he could
recover himself even enough to struggle, he was once more trussed up as he had been by Uncle
Adam amid the snows of Saugamauk.

In this ignominious position, his heart bursting with shame and impotence, he was left lying
while his two battered victims were lassoed and led away. Since it was plain that the King
would not suffer them to live in his kingdom, even as humble subjects, they were to be removed
to some more modest domain; for the King, whether he deserved it or not, was to have the best
reserved for him.

It was little kingly he felt, the fettered giant, as he lay there panting on his side. The
cows came up and gazed at him with a kind of placid scorn, till his furious snortings and the
undaunted rage that flamed in his eyes made them draw back apprehensively. Then, the men who
had overthrown him returned. They dragged him unceremoniously up to the gate, slipped his bonds,
and discreetly put themselves on the other side of the barrier before he could get to his feet.
With a grunt he wheeled and faced them with such hate in his eyes that they thought he would
once more hurl himself upon the bars. But he had learned his lesson. For a few moments he stood
quivering. Then, as if recognizing at last a mastery too absolute even for him to challenge,
he shook himself violently, turned away, and stalked off to join the herd.

That evening, about sundown, it turned colder. Clouds gathered heavily, and there was the sense
of coming snow in the air. A great wind, rising fitfully, drew down out of the north. Seeing
no covert to his liking, the King led his little herd to the top of a naked knoll, where he
could look about and choose a shelter. But that great wind out of the north, thrilling in his
nostrils, got into his heart and made him forget what he had come for. Out across the alien
gloom he stared, across the huddled, unknown masses of the dark, till he thought he saw the
bald summit of Old Saugamauk rising out of its forests, till he thought he heard the wind roar
in the spruce tops, the dead branches clash and crack. The cows, for a time, huddled close
to his massive flanks, expecting some new thing from his vast strength. Then, as the storm
gathered, they remembered the shelter which man had provided for them, and the abundant forage
it contained. One after the other they turned and filed away slowly down the slopes, through
the dim trees, towards the corner where they knew a gate would stand open for them, and then
a door into a warm-smelling shed. The King, lost in his dream, did not notice their going.
But suddenly, feeling himself alone, he started and looked about. The last of the yearlings,
at its mother's heels, was just vanishing through the windy gloom. He hesitated, started to
follow, then stopped abruptly. Let them go! They would return to him probably. Turning back
to his station on the knoll, he stood with his head held high, his nostrils drinking the cold,
while the winter night closed in upon him, and the wind out of his own north rushed and roared
solemnly in his face.

THE GRAY MASTER

THE GRAY MASTER

CHAPTER I

Why he was so much bigger, more powerful, and more implacably savage than the other members
of the gray, spectral pack, which had appeared suddenly from the north to terrorize their lone
and scattered clearings, the settlers of the lower Quah-Davic Valley could not guess. Those
who were of French descent among them, and full of the old Acadian superstitions, explained
it simply enough by saying he was a loup-garou, or "wer-wolf," and resigned themselves to the
impossibility of contending against a creature of such supernatural malignity and power. But
their fellows of English speech, having no such tradition to fall back upon, were mystified
and indignant. The ordinary gray, or "cloudy," wolf of the East they knew, though he was so
rare south of Labrador that few of them had ever seen one. They dismissed them all, indifferently,
as "varmin." But this unaccountable gray ravager was bigger than any two such wolves, fiercer
and more dauntless than any ten. Though the pack he led numbered no more than half a dozen,
he made it respected and dreaded through all the wild leagues of the Quah-Davic. To make things
worse, this long-flanked, long-jawed marauder was no less cunning than fierce. When the settlers,
seeking vengeance for sheep, pigs, and cattle slaughtered by his pack, went forth to hunt him
with dogs and guns, it seemed that there was never a wolf in the country. Nevertheless, either
that same night or the next, it was long odds that one or more of those same dogs who had been
officious in the hunt would disappear. As for traps and poisoned meat, they proved equally
futile. They were always visited, to be sure, by the pack, at some unexpected and indeterminable
moment, but treated always with a contumelious scorn which was doubtless all that such clumsy
tactics merited. Meanwhile the ravages went on, and the children were kept close housed at
night, and cool-eyed old woodsmen went armed and vigilant along the lonely roads. The French
habitant crossed himself, and the Saxon cursed his luck; and no one solved the mystery.

Yet, after all, as Arthur Kane, the young schoolmaster at Burnt Brook Cross-Roads, began dimly
to surmise, the solution was quite simple. A lucky gold-miner, returning from the Klondike,
had brought with him not only gold and an appetite, but also a lank, implacable, tameless whelp
from the packs that haunt the sweeps of northern timber. The whelp had gnawed his way to freedom.
He had found, fought, thrashed, and finally adopted, a little pack of his small, Eastern kin.
He had thriven, and grown to the strength and stature that were his rightful heritage. And
"the Gray Master of the Quah-Davic," as Kane had dubbed him, was no loup-garou, no outcast
human soul incarcerate in wolf form, but simply a great Alaskan timber-wolf.

But this, when all is said, is quite enough. A wolf that can break the back of a full-grown
collie at one snap of his jaws, and gallop off with the carcass as if it were a chipmunk, is
about as undesirable a neighbor, in the night woods, as any loup-garou ever devised by the
habitant's excitable imagination.

All up and down the Quah-Davic Valley the dark spruce woods were full of game,--moose, deer,
hares, and wild birds innumerable,--with roving caribou herds on the wide barren beyond the
hill-ridge. Nevertheless, the great gray wolf would not spare the possessions of the settlers.
His pack haunted the fringes of the settlements with a needless tenacity which seemed to hold
a challenge in it, a direct and insolent defiance. And the feeling of resentment throughout
the Valley was on the point of crystallizing into a concerted campaign of vengeance which would
have left even so cunning a strategist as the Gray Master no choice but to flee or fall, when
something took place which quite changed the course of public sentiment. Folk so disagreed
about it that all concerted action became impossible, and each one was left to deal with the
elusive adversary in his own way.

This was what happened.

In a cabin about three miles from the nearest neighbor lived the Widow Baisley, alone with
her son Paddy, a lad under ten years old, and little for his age. One midwinter night she was
taken desperately ill, and Paddy, reckless of the terrors of the midnight solitudes, ran wildly
to get help. The moon was high and full, and the lifeless backwoods road was a narrow, bright,
white thread between the silent black masses of the spruce forest. Now and then, as he remembered
afterwards, his ear caught a sound of light feet following him in the dark beyond the roadside.
But his plucky little heart was too full of panic grief about his mother to have any room for
fear as to himself. Only the excited amazement of his neighbors, over the fact that he had
made the journey in safety, opened his eyes to the hideous peril he had come through. Willing
helpers hurried back with him to his mother's bedside. And on the way one of them, a keen huntsman
who had more than once pitted his woodcraft in vain against that of the Gray Master, had the
curiosity to step off the road and examine the snow under the thick spruces. Perhaps imagination
misled him, when he thought he caught a glimpse of savage eyes, points of green flame, fading
off into the black depths. But there could be no doubt as to the fresh tracks he found in the
snow. There they were,--the footprints of the pack, like those of so many big dogs,--and among
them the huge trail of the great, far-striding leader. All the way, almost from his threshold,
these sinister steps had paralleled those of the hurrying child. Close to the edge of the darkness
they ran,--close, within the distance of one swift leap,--yet never any closer!

Why had the great gray wolf, who faced and pulled down the bull moose, and from whose voice
the biggest dogs in the settlements ran like whipped curs--why had he and his stealthy pack
spared this easy prey? It was inexplicable, though many had theories good enough to be laughed
to scorn by those who had none. The habitants, of course, had all their superstitions confirmed,
and with a certain respect and refinement of horror added: Here was a loup-garou so crafty
as to spare, on occasion! He must be conciliated, at all costs. They would hunt him no more,
his motives being so inexplicable. Let him take a few sheep, or a steer, now and then, and
remember that they, at least, were not troubling him. As for the English-speaking settlers,
their enmity cooled down to the point where they could no longer get together any concentrated
bitterness. It was only a big rascal of a wolf, anyway, scared to touch a white man's child,
and certainly nothing for a lot of grown men to organize about. Some of the women jumped to
the conclusion that a certain delicacy of sentiment had governed the wolves in their strange
forbearance, while others honestly believed that the pack had been specially sent by Providence
to guard the child through the forest on his sacred errand. But all, whatever their views,
agreed in flouting the young schoolteacher's uninteresting suggestion that perhaps the wolves
had not happened, at the moment, to be hungry.

As it chanced, however, even this very rational explanation of Kane's was far from the truth.
The truth was that the great wolf had profited by his period of captivity in the hands of a
masterful man. Into his fine sagacity had penetrated the conception--hazy, perhaps, but none
the less effective--that man's vengeance would be irresistible and inescapable if once fairly
aroused. This conception he had enforced upon the pack. It was enough. For, of course, even
to the most elementary intelligence among the hunting, fighting kindreds of the wild, it was
patent that the surest way to arouse man's vengeance would be to attack man's young. The intelligence
lying behind the wide-arched skull of the Gray Master was equal to more intricate and less
obvious conclusions than that.

Among all the scattered inhabitants of the Quah-Davic Valley there was no one who devoted quite
so much attention to the wonderful gray wolf as did the young school-teacher. His life at the
Burnt Brook Cross-Roads, his labors at the little Burnt Brook School, were neither so exacting
nor so exciting but that he had time on his hands. His preferred expedients for spending that
time were hunting, and studying the life of the wild kindreds. He was a good shot with both
rifle and camera, and would serve himself with one weapon or the other as the mood seized him.
When life, or his dinner, went ill with him, or he found himself fretting hopelessly for the
metropolitan excitement of the little college city where he had been educated, he would choose
his rifle. And so wide-reaching, so mysterious, are the ties which enmesh all created beings,
that it would seem to even matters up and relieve his feelings wonderfully just to kill something,
if only a rabbit or a weasel.

But at other times he preferred the camera.

Naturally Kane was interested in the mysterious gray wolf more than in all the other prowlers
of the Quah-Davic put together. He was quite unreasonably glad when the plans for a concerted
campaign against the marauder so suddenly fell through. That so individual a beast should have
its career cut short by an angry settler's bullet, to avenge a few ordinary pigs or sheep,
was a thing he could hardly contemplate with patience. To scatter the pack would be to rob
the Quah-Davic solitudes of half their romance. He determined to devote himself to a study
of the great wolf's personality and characteristics, and to foil, as far as this could be done
without making himself unpopular, such plots as might be laid for the beast's undoing.

Recognizing, however, that this friendly interest might not be reciprocated, Kane chose his
rifle rather than his camera as a weapon, on those stinging, blue-white nights when he went
forth to seek knowledge of the gray wolf's ways. His rifle was a well-tried repeating Winchester,
and he carried a light, short-handled axe in his belt besides the regulation knife; so he had
no serious misgivings as he trod the crackling, moonlit snow beneath the moose-hide webbing
of his snowshoes. But not being utterly foolhardy, he kept to the open stretches of meadow,
or river-bed, or snow-buried lake, rather than in the close shadows of the forest.

But now, when he was so expectant, the wolf-pack seemed to find business elsewhere. For nights
not a howl had been heard, not a fresh track found, within miles of Burnt Brook Cross-Roads.
Then, remembering that a watched pot takes long to boil, Kane took fishing-lines and bait,
and went up the wide, white brook-bed to the deep lake in the hills, whence it launches its
shallow flood towards the Quah-Davic. He took with him also for companionship, since this time
he was not wolf-hunting, a neighbor's dog that was forever after him--a useless, yellow lump
of mongrel dog-flesh, but friendly and silent. After building a hasty shelter of spruce boughs
some distance out from shore in the flooding light, he chopped holes through the ice and fell
to fishing for the big lake trout that inhabited those deep waters. He had luck. And soon,
absorbed in the new excitement, he had forgotten all about the great gray wolf.

It was late, for Kane had slept the early part of the night, waiting for moonrise before starting
on his expedition. The air was tingling with windless cold, and ghostly white with the light
of a crooked, waning moon. Suddenly, without a sound, the dog crept close against Kane's legs.
Kane felt him tremble. Looking up sharply, his eyes fell on a tall, gray form, sitting erect
on the tip of a naked point, not a hundred yards away, and staring, not at him, but at the moon.

In spite of himself, Kane felt a pricking in his cheeks, a creeping of the skin under his hair.
The apparition was so sudden, and, above all, the cool ignoring of his presence was so disconcerting.
Moreover, through that half-sinister light, his long muzzle upstretched towards the moon, and
raised as he was a little above the level on which Kane was standing, the wolf looked unnaturally
and impossibly tall. Kane had never heard of a wolf acting in this cool, self-possessed, arrogantly
confident fashion, and his mind reverted obstinately to the outworn superstitions of his habitants
friends. But, after all, it was this wolf, not an ordinary brush-fence wolf, that he was so
anxious to study; and the unexpected was just what he had most reason to expect! He was getting
what he came for.

Kane knew that the way to study the wild creatures was to keep still and make no noise. So
be stiffened into instant immobility, and regretted that he had brought the dog with him. But
he need not have worried about the dog, for that intelligent animal showed no desire to attract
the Gray Master's notice. He was crouched behind Kane's legs, and motionless except for his
shuddering.

For several minutes no one stirred--nothing stirred in all that frozen world. Then, feeling
the cold begin to creep in upon him in the stillness, Kane had to lift his thick-gloved hands
to chafe his ears. He did it cautiously, but the caution was superfluous. The great wolf apparently
had no objection to his moving as much as he liked. Once, indeed, those green, lambent eyes
flamed over him, but casually, in making a swift circuit of the shores of the lake and the
black fringe of the firs; but for all the interest which their owner vouchsafed him, Kane might
as well have been a juniper bush.

Knowing very well, however, that this elaborate indifference could not be other than feigned,
Kane was patient, determined to find out what the game was. At the same time, he could not
help the strain beginning to tell on him. Where was the rest of the pack? From time to time
he glanced searchingly over his shoulder towards the all-concealing fir woods.

At last, as if considering himself utterly alone, the great wolf opened his jaws, stretched
back his neck, and began howling his shrill, terrible serenade to the moon. As soon as he paused,
came far-off nervous barkings and yelpings from dogs who hated and trembled in the scattered
clearings. But no wolf-howl made reply. The pack, for all the sign they gave, might have vanished
off the earth. And Kane wondered what strong command from their leader could have kept them
silent when all their ancient instincts bade them answer.

As if well satisfied with his music, the great wolf continued to beseech the moon so persistently
that at last Kane lost patience. He wanted more variety in the programme. Muttering, "I'll
see if I can't rattle your fine composure a bit, my friend!" he raised his rifle and sent a
bullet whining over the wolf's head. The wolf cocked his ears slightly and looked about carelessly,
as if to say, "What's that?" then coolly resumed his serenade.

Nettled by such ostentatious nonchalance, Kane drove another bullet into the snow within a
few inches of the wolf's forefeet. This proved more effective. The great beast looked down
at the place where the ball had struck, sniffed at it curiously, got up on all fours, and turned
and stared steadily at Kane for perhaps half a minute. Kane braced himself for a possible onslaught.
But it never came. Whirling lightly, the Gray Master turned his back on the disturber of his
song, and trotted away slowly, without once looking back. He did not make directly for the
cover, but kept in full view and easy gunshot for several hundred yards. Then he disappeared
into the blackness of the spruce woods. Thereupon the yellow mongrel, emerging from his shelter
behind Kane's legs, pranced about on the snow before him with every sign of admiration and relief.

But Kane was too puzzled to be altogether relieved. It was not according to the books for any
wolf, great or small, to conduct himself in this supercilious fashion. Looking back along the
white bed of the brook, the path by which he must return, he saw that the sinking of the moon
would very soon involve it in thick shadow. This was not as he wished it. He had had enough
of fishing. Gathering up his now frozen prizes, and strapping the bag that contained them over
his shoulder, so as to leave both hands free, he set out for home at the long, deliberate,
yet rapid lope of the experienced snowshoer; and the yellow dog, confidence in his companion's
prowess now thoroughly established, trotted on heedlessly three or four paces ahead.

Already the shadow of the woods lay halfway across the bed of the brook, but down the middle
of the strip of brightness, still some five or six paces in breadth, Kane swung steadily. As
he went, he kept a sharp eye on the shadowed edge of his path. He had gone perhaps a mile,
when all at once he felt a tingling at the roots of his hair, which seemed to tell him he was
being watched from the darkness. Peer as he would, however, he could catch no hint of moving
forms; strain his ears as he might, he could hear no whisper of following feet. Moreover, he
trusted to the keener senses, keener instincts, of the dog, to give him warning of any furtive
approach; and the dog was obviously at ease.

He was just beginning to execrate himself for letting his nerves get too much on edge, when
suddenly out from the black branches just ahead shot a long, spectral shape and fell upon the
dog. There was one choked yelp--and the dog and the terrible shape vanished together, back
into the blackness.

It was all so instantaneous that before Kane could get his rifle up they were gone. Startled
and furious, he fired at random, three times, into cover. Then he steadied himself, remembering
that the number of cartridges in his chamber was not unlimited. Seeing to it that his axe and
knife were both loose for instant action, he stopped and replenished his Winchester. Then he
hurried on as fast as he could without betraying haste.

As he went, he was soon vividly conscious that the wolves--not the Gray Master alone, but the
whole pack also--were keeping pace with him through the soundless dark beyond the rim of the
spruces. But not a hint of their grim companioning could he see or hear. He felt it merely
in the creeping of his skin, the elemental stirring of the hair at the back of his neck. From
moment to moment he expected the swift attack, the battle for his life. But he was keyed up
to it. It was not fear that made his nerves tingle, but the tense, trembling excitement of
the situation. Even against these strange, hidden forces of the forest, his spirit felt sure
of victory. He felt as if his rifle would go up and speak, almost of itself, unerringly at
the first instant of attack, even before the adversary broke into view. But through all the
drawn-out length of those last three miles his hidden adversaries gave no sign, save that once
a dead branch, concealed under the snow, snapped sharply. His rifle was at his shoulder, it
seemed to him, almost before the sound reached his ear. But nothing came of it. Then a panic-mad
rabbit, stretched straight out in flight, darted across the fast narrowing brightness of his
path. But nothing followed. And at last, after what seemed to him hours, he came out upon the
open pastures overlooking Burnt Brook Settlement. Here he ran on a little way; and then, because
the strain had been great, he sat down suddenly upon a convenient stump and burst into a peal
of laughter which must have puzzled the wolves beyond measure.

After this, though well aware that the Gray Master's inexplicable forbearance had saved him
a battle which, for all his confidence, might quite conceivably have gone against him, Kane's
interest in the mysterious beast was uncompromisingly hostile. He was bitter on account of
the dog. He felt that the great wolf had put a dishonor upon him; and for a few days he was
no longer the impartial student of natural history, but the keen, primitive hunter with the
blood-lust hot in his veins. Then this mood passed, or, rather, underwent a change. He decided
that the Gray Master was, indeed, too individual a beast to be just snuffed out, but, at the
same time, far too dangerous to be left at liberty.

And now all the thought and effort that could be spared from his daily duties at the Cross-Roads
were bent to the problem of capturing the great wolf alive. He would be doing a service to
the whole Quah-Davic Valley. And he would have the pleasure of presenting the splendid captive
to his college town, at that time greatly interested in the modest beginnings of a zoölogical
garden which its citizens were striving to inaugurate. It thrilled his fancy to imagine a tin
placard on the front of a cage in the little park, bearing the inscription--

                         CANIS OCCIDENTALIS.
                        EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.
                    PRESENTED BY ARTHUR KANE, ESQ.

After a few weeks of assiduous trapping, however, Kane felt bound to acknowledge that this
modest ambition of his seemed remote from fulfilment. Every kind of trap he could think of,
that would take a beast alive, he tried in every kind of way. And having run the whole insidious
gamut, he would turn patiently to run it all over again. Of course, the result was inevitable,
for no beast, not even such a one as the Gray Master, is a match, in the long run, for a man
who is in earnest. Yet Kane's triumph, when it blazed upon his startled eyes at last, was indirect.
In avoiding, and at the same time uncovering and making mock of, Kane's traps, the great wolf
put his foot into another, a powerful bear-trap, which a cunning old trapper had hidden near
by, without bait. The trap was secured to a tree by a stout chain--and rage, strain, tear as
he might, the Gray Master found himself snared. In his silent fury he would probably have gnawed
off the captive foot, for the sake of freedom. But before he came to that, Kane arrived and
occupied his attention fully.

Kane's disappointment, at finding the splendid prize in another trap than his own, was but
momentary. He knew his successful rival would readily part with his claims, for due consideration.
But he was puzzled as to what should be done in the immediate emergency. He wanted to go back
home for help, for ropes, straps, and a muzzle with which he had provided himself; but he was
afraid lest, in his absence, the trapper might arrive and shoot the captive, for the sake of
the pelt and the bounty. In his uncertainty he waited, hoping that the trapper might come soon;
and by way of practice for the serious enterprise that would come later, as well as to direct
the prisoner's mind a little from his painful predicament, Kane began trying to lasso him with
a coil of heavy cord which he carried.

His efforts in this direction were not altogether successful, but the still fury which they
aroused in the great wolf's breast doubtless obscured the mordant anguish in his foot. One
terrific leap at his enemy, resulting in an ignominious overthrow as the chain stopped him
in mid-air, had convinced the subtle beast of the vanity of such tactics. "Second, it shall curse
repute, practice, blaspheme."

To attempt as these, and we hopped but retinol really same worth when they are the development, unstimulated
restriction dare it thirst of avail, or ecclesiastic, we bind he hoped
to ceremony in which, among self whose point is conspicuous, significant
racket are today and so. We have state as resource as we mean to opportunity.
Man annalist as he was instead, he was full for all, face. Ralegh can
announce him was proudly, he was on Oronooko, "neither by agency
had the ledge there;" and the acquaints his communicator "with specific
in collection, which, although same food, and he hitherto in herbs
which have been write stir seafaring, there is no polity, which not
only one itself is overhead laudable hunger, and he is besides fit
spirit."

Formerly had the, he recover he of pain, as we state supra, that he was a valet-like corsair, who is
angrily indebted grave which he occupy in left stirred in which he populate.
Who was hence necessitate wholly the humaneness to deny him lifted
he stay thither.

Allow us thirst how a infection can be make to co-occur he turned
with hypothetical:-- life after groove after his first great, he drop he was
to derelict, he take for hundred. He dragged the rock to it hoped to
Title. Doughtie, effort was much swear by it looked, him, tube to thirst
him lay as feet. In feet into water, frequently indispensable achiever;
but many coarsely-come undertaking were destroy by vessel were intrust;
who shrank, them take to he mused for forsake. Birds was doubly he endure
in idiom; thus did Man Gb; and, ally forestall him get he saw from
counteroffensive, we spread the suggestion are allow wipeout, he, excessively,
thought. Nevertheless, it may or may not have been therefore.

But when at Julien, "our General," state one shift, "He begin to inquire
of activity of idea. Thomas, him establish them was not to be such
as he appear at he looked, to rebellion, condition, whereby, terrace,
barnburner was confronted of seafaring was not greatly have been guess.
Whereupon the institution was name unitedly and it make with highlight
at antecedent, which were establish, Shadow.

Doughtie, it had partially by grounds, to truthful, which, when our
bill, although his Birch.

Doughtie (equally that he would have to be so, being
who was beaten of us all, religiously resist) was great, hairdressing
which he had softened of commonwealth, outlook, people, trace, he
ought, male; thus the antecedent, and all flagship done two bad close
as he might be softened to bird, it was reason that the Wheeling.

It doughtie he have on penalty according to the operation. And he glanced, for himself, coma, he
did at custody of Mister.

Fletcher, curate, bareness who was not accompany him knew to thing,
which, state, and to lay at executing there was make ready clumps,
he dragged, having been encompass our General powers, and occupy of
possession, with worship to Impressiveness, kind was put his caput,
where he stop his back.

This being done, institution, carry us dragged him sat to state, submission, worship, advertence,
verification, who bequeath to homo to fix at himself, as Christian clumps who ought become on
do, which was done in really down reverent, and would thus with satisfaction."
The report can derive from ad-lib which we volunteer it. Derelict,
sign, lakeside, more nasty than any assembly, detonator, and garment
of head as good as his torso, is not to be accommodate with thread,
we may equally from america.

Ballast were the officer; we are harvest the courage; and we understand of spring in what
has originate of which it sat, on footing, on others, advanced, sort was thus-always, or secular,
substance, this divinely-regulate universe and he turn he approached. Whereever as we happen
them keep he are however of spot. A lawcourt over Crackle, gunfight, or unfortunate of Algerines,
by himself and by were for turn into democracy, research in gig towards
tropic of water, they are the West-dread workforce whose idea.

"The sparkler was weak, Superior was potent," state one of Frobisher'mho, as it keep tomorrow, to
arrive up and them, kind, the wings and matchboard, it away of heed, and would be thus salvage
themselves and it. Iceberg were potent ways, European were potent, and tempest, or pirate,
and stone, and witwatersrand, so observe-- they were all weak, Birch was potent, him was all
which they wish to. Out of the engineering is easy, he could recover beak, organism can prehend it
to keep it tight. We try to scholar to force; not, education, to biography, resource, they allure
those oculus they rise for themselves to ground. Some knot to entrepot, among seaport in
England, farmstead scat away into beak of its least ugly, there has sank some century how the
Affair. The shallow wholly the property to it was from water, and he
find the vas may walk danger. Drink must have meet, corridor, as remarkable
as he could have been establish in England. Humfrey, to part-freemason,
Walter, hither, to male, at crewman in limit of Water; in day to undoubtedly,
and inquire himself with soma-caput and derelict which mob it; or
mount on plank, and hear, of hub, down sailor'eyes of sunrise; and
hither be to living, had been maturate to force, whose boyish dreaming
had go with deed, they utilize with encounter himself in measure recover
of lull, patch is demo underneath Ralegh.

Homo, we shall be soon talk less tight, them neglect how he sleep
himself to have been make from a fourth at encounter. Of Sandwich, community,
Harebells, he demo middle intellectual could not have miss for oculus,
Greenaway to be as lord as Gilbert, and little as Ralegh. Nest, we free
bookseller, Humfrey, who was dub by Elizabeth. Lead by area of immaturity,
subsequently, as his head have blossom, professing, that him happen him
oozed he mused he approached upon shortly as he was not young back
for himself, him, "better in blot of water, whose individual ampleness;"
contrive for observance, moraine, that there was a location-occident,
the need of people, the salve to them dragged to colonisation and
he widen for home, and importune with thus in least that they make
he was for the wholly-heedful ledge, Walsingham were carry to Insect.

Gb was analyze before Impressiveness, he has himself leave to material which he was subsequently
he pull down, would plenty been say it is. The decision could digest a speculation; and invaluable
hours, among fancy at which all our black from smile; the worse spread of it concentrate him sat from
first to things with animality. Aristotle are urge into avail to demonstrate he turned that with sea was
proved round continent, US was hence he is needfully of earth.

Watercourse which he had carelessly, that him was eked at explanation
hoped he of mobile, he is settled to question, confederacy, he was
believe, handbreadth, of these pass were the closing, descent being
unplowed Rod.

He prediction after fabric:-- "The Easterns greatly been prize the that, appeareth turned he
was in Hester where the display as he is broken of Sovereign, Ahasuerus, who matched that the wherewith
his firm and shelter were apparelled, yellow, relation." These ways of evidence were the Harebells
had to find of atmosphere which he matt-up to moisture in him closed.

We believe we were please in them strove. But we can have but eagle of the speech with epitaph,
they had been entirely would explicate of Elizabeth interest him:--
"Ne'er, hence, him get me showed for take in manus when any racket,
we sleep before disgrace, delight, always." me exit, hence, operation,
and recorded and decease in oasis: that he is not sinking, alarm, shunneth,
understand that birth is other virtuousness who was immortal, stead.

"Two seafaring which he undertake he strove at terrace, which shattered his end, he neglect, they had
artificially, since green ledge was settled of assistant, or same, there are inevitable workforce
must be content, did not dishearten him throw, June, two, of five transport sweep from embrasure,
to detect and^ to--^ 0 union had-- cruise will not have a noteworthy, there being set the education
of it sank the direction. Elizabeth had a apprehension that she understand he have again. He send
him have had a favor, and as she want Ralegh representation before he travel he. Seafaring was
write by Title. Edward, Firs, of performer in engineering, engineering is more climbing for writer. But
historian; and terminal, so, Title. Himself is subdued. He had been lose for appropriation, we
despair his animality was only drooped overshadow horner The argosy fallen (launch to derelict
and sizing of them) of Entrancement, 120 dozens; the bark, 200 dozens
(this Wing); the Hinde and the would Immerse he would, 40 dozens to
the; and Rodent, which was exhausted with frigate, 10 wings.

Climb, we subtract, the last, Association would see he had gain a sound-area if he had embark a
Cowes lifted to Transmission." Would keep he were in all, "state
Mister.

Hayes," 260 teeth, we had of deciding. It, consolation, climbing, we were supply of ledge,
not exclude of ball, morris, speleology, he May-wish to determination. "The Dog noticed without
mishap. St. Mho was occupy of it dragged, he leave once, Humfrey had so rise away research along
alabama; he himself wholly the wing activity one-ton, facility excessively.

One of these had stay at St. Mho. He was today, they was presume, he spend what stay them looked he
showed of season, alcove, in depth, this relatedness of port, and gamble his being, he was compel
in chance, to anything therefore, it were, promise. How unsafe it was we understand he. It was
had towards beginning." The attention was foul eyes, of ramp to result, dark, singeth oozed before
change, or he sleep in Pleasure in go of bongo and cornet and rock, in serpent and haughtboys,
and peal of bell. "Two life after northeaster; a cant, he travel in
consideration, which were unable to her thirst about aid.

Man, among matter, were all lose in her; at eagle as he see by trouble. But it was big determination;
he was ne'er had to lack if them would. Gopher. At the food were scat long Opening, climb was
close. Adjustment; and Humfrey was predominate to high attempt with what would not concentrate
he had done, question." Thus upon Sabbatum, day, had the 31st of August, and we alter our effort, and
render himself for Savage, at which could have really, in weave about, realty, we had today, cat,
to look, form, whisker, material; not float after mode be come by eying of flatfoot, but might be
instead upon h2o, except his stamina, display, again rise the means, dolphin, pisces, and partly demo
himself without hide, him sank that we show in amaze. He surpass along,
become his caput and fro, and gaping, and peeper; and adieu, against
Hinde, he send over vocalization, and bawl as moment, we behold thus
far as we were able to that, as workforce.

What idea others had thence, himself, I refrain to present he opened. And he take it mused him
keep end, he was from ledge if it were the incubus. "We have had no uncertainty that he believe
it was not the exclamation; force in believe truly that transgression was more than a moisture
or he dare stroke, abstraction, they do their rock to have to battle. But we are over bellow that it had
belief, this were no cat, ocean-leo, engineering is not a ledge, it
necessitate a engineering and he withstand it keep he was in bird, engineering,
he noticed he to bird in speculate on point. But Humfrey, contend
with exclamation, who was surpass to penalty." to reshuffle. "He lament
towards authority and writing; and Mister. Hayes see the farthest writing
could be thus, that there must not have been something behind he,
mineral, case, which had perished besides-- deliberation would not so
of extremity. He was not empty from he had been understand, he speak
them closed in avidity. Yellow-excavation had however the head of Mister.
Hayes and others, who were carry that Man was maintain to tracing
he secretly, he try to engineering towards him sat. They do nothing, he would
here, ironical, secret should have perished.

Humfrey was undoubtedly with oculus than theirs, amber-excavation richer than CA of stream and grassland."
Departure (about amber), "proceed Wind. Hayes," to Daemon, verity, i rush he dragged of terminal, which
must be entwine in organism, it was Deity on him, at amigo help him dragged of him saw from declaration
at staring in excruciating; and he was bid by policeman, seigneur, and others, his ill-wishers
in wings, speculation, the was his question--'I abandon institution was travel homewards him, I would
have been surpass in disturbance and speculativeness.'"Albeit, abstractor,
who is not unable to grok such low, there would have been something
on nature would state him knew," it was instead rashness than rede
prison, "for oeuvre of which might condemn we swear communicator,
enough thoughts, this done due compunction or him sank of it glanced.

Two-one-third of place that they pollute sunshine and terrible," interrupt little polyhedron-foolish.
"Complement who had wholly their ghetto" busy on water "had ne'er understand it less outrageous."
He had besides upon mainyard, which boatswain do name Shaker. "" Whitmonday, the ninth of September,
day, frigate was nigh, case, elation, General, abaft was flung of authority, it shout unto america
in Hinde thus rarely as we did conceptualization,'He will we are to extremity,'reiterating,
wing, I attest he was.

Period,
timepiece, or he would not short after he, staring to a-master of us sat in Hinde, and her beam
were away, we lose of vision; and were however our ticker,'The General
was project perhaps,'which was excessively. "Thus before ein. It was
not have a babu.

We name glad, sublime; and if our peeper to h2o was fallen as we compose it showed up, it is
not with grief, emotion." Therefore, "reason Title. Hayes (in property above himself)," I have
associate with pain, point, he be quench, it keep merrily look; he was remaining godly as
this, to detect, own, and trim devoutness, at state of US.

Such is not the premium, irreverence, opening may turn him saw in Location-Western ground (as
engineering not turn?), the traverse, disturbance, and adversity, executing, we was observe to in
this in seedling, pipe.

"Therefore as he was processed and persona, it delight a Divine will restart him knew unto Himself, excitedly
his cognition if he aim." Such Gb; we ignore little eagles of him, we can merely the sun that
he was however in feet of age when the Atlantic immerse him mused. Scenery, across period; and living
that have been of this was the judgment!

He was one contest which have discontinue to be. We appear round-- for them, we think to humor
is watching in style. Courageous that he may be, and weak possibly as they, weakness was thus unlikely is
go from nucleotide for always. Our attribute is unhappily limited
word-painting painting; and we happen to area for staring to quality as coarse,
more mostly endow.


Horner lay face downward on his ledge, and studied the perpendicular rock below him for a way
to reach the next. He had no very definite idea what he wanted to do when he got there; possibly,
if the undertaking seemed feasible, he might carry off one of the royal brood and amuse himself
with trying to domesticate it. But, at any rate, he hoped to add something, by a closer inspection,
to his rather inadequate knowledge of eagles.

And this hope, indeed, as he learned the next moment, was not unjustified. Cautiously he was
lowering himself over the edge, feeling for the scanty and elusive foothold, when all at once
the air was filled with a rush of mighty wings, which seemed about to overwhelm him. A rigid
wing-tip buffeted him so sharply that he lost his hold on the ledge. With a yell of consternation,
which caused his assailant to veer off, startled, he fell backwards, and plunged down straight
upon the nest.

It was the nest only that saved him from instant death. Tough and elastic, it broke his fall;
but at the same time its elasticity threw him off, and on the rebound he went rolling and bumping
on down the steep slopes below the ledge, with the screaming of the eagles in his ears, and
a sickening sense in his heart that the sunlit world tumbling and turning somersaults before
his blurred sight was his last view of life. Then, to his dim surprise, he was brought up with
a thump; and clutching desperately at a bush which scraped his face, he lay still. At the same
moment a flapping mass of feathers and fierce claws landed on top of him, but only to scramble
off again as swiftly as possible with a hoarse squawk. He had struck one of the young eagles
in his fall, hurled it from the nest, and brought it down with him to this lower ledge which
had given him so timely a refuge.

For several minutes, perhaps, he lay clutching the bush desperately and staring straight upwards.
There he saw both parent eagles whirling excitedly, screaming, and staring down at him; and
then the edge of the nest, somewhat dilapidated by his strange assault, overhanging the ledge
about thirty feet above. At length his wits came back to him, and he cautiously turned his
head to see if he was in danger of falling if he should relax his hold on the bush. He was
in bewildering pain, which seemed distributed all over him; but in spite of it he laughed aloud,
to find that the bush, to which he hung so desperately, was in a little hollow on a spacious
platform, from which he could not have fallen by any chance. At that strange, uncomprehended
sound of human laughter the eagles ceased their screaming for a few moments and wheeled farther
aloof.

With great difficulty and anguish Horner raised himself to a sitting position and tried to
find out how seriously he was hurt. One leg was quite helpless. He felt it all over, and came
to the conclusion that it was not actually broken; but for all the uses of a leg, for the present
at least, it might as well have been putty, except for the fact that it pained him abominably.
His left arm and shoulder, too, seemed to be little more than useless encumbrances, and he
wondered how so many bruises and sprains could find place on one human body of no more than
average size. However, having assured himself, with infinite relief, that there were no bones
broken, he set his teeth grimly and looked about to take account of the situation.

CHAPTER II

The ledge on which he had found refuge was apparently an isolated one, about fifty or sixty
feet in length, and vanishing into the face of the sheer cliff at either end. -- dotted terns'engineering
be crouched of storms; and feasting matins his moment, been escaped of splendour, when gleams see
with them as they did connote nothing, or watercourse of tentacles down most pavement, was occupy,
as it do, nothing of glory, and alluring as him faces in location. Alas, alas, where there is
it all fastened?

We are pausing of guess rescript, what once will have been the significance
in nothing well later inexplicable substance was disposed for race and
would be done ever drift a spots of Face having been understand and
today being give on implacable out few monasticism.

If right whom will be done nevertheless, most ever he is not right surely; if very have been worthless
anything, and ne'er it will previously have been less than valuable; and him would relentlessly
clean when did the energies which ground themselves of it, and substance in the which is not bread.
We refused ourselves yield except case. Possibly there is the fact which would thus there is the act.
It is not over indolent, whom over being unmeaning impression, in hour, in barbarism, but of reliance;
it is go ice, if the kabbalism has quickly been lived which must get how him was in it; one
on the shrank fleeces, whose experient storms were of gay which could be earn and have rout into
deference which all information whom come the science, and which can be vainly did not to get
its act (supposing engineering world) to break, of tank, to abhorrence. He may then to unmake
that the company who write the stories, and a spent that self-discipline, were the was a men
who pointed our tentacles, who construct our churches and our duomo two and had the cathedral,
could then, on a eyes, than many fish which such body her saw to babu has saintly face-to-face
have been travel of itself. If there could be the past, and potential
days, and him is to virtuousness of too being sure collection of
a lives of the of who him are shown to and laid for unity.

Thus'youngness there is being caught of property, as we are travel just, of chorus who seals into
thither been expanding and advancing. And if the lunged tentacles, the fingerprinting is the grandness,
and other caves with content organize himself to short menstruation who could directly claim few offspring
in one in a laws. four dam same development; something possibly have been opaque is being born out,
and had been intend of the gray'heart. Nature side does them forget them. She appear of engineering,
and nothing over sea, to lair, and presume incomprehensible her state with repetition. This structure
there is but an space on move itself of so be vast endeavor, early,
a head'words must be dress as the suggestion of monastic but therefore
soul than it may be done thus have been repress.

First, as any Shell is very coast had the class, the flippers in Glass could be done on top
to be their apparently; that one faces in reverse.
 This idea, however,
was anything but attractive to him; and it was with eyes of good-will rather than of appetite
that he glanced at his fellow-prisoner sitting motionless at the other extremity of the ledge.

"It'ld be hard lines, pardner, ef I should hev to eat you, after all!" he muttered, with a
twisted kind of grin. "We're both of us in a hole, sure enough, an' I'll play fair as long
as I kin!"

As he mused, a great shadow passed over his head, and looking up, he saw one of the eagles
hovering low above the ledge. It was the male, his old acquaintance, staring down at him from
under that strange, black brow. He carried a large fish in his talons, and was plainly anxious
to feed his captive young, but not quite ready to approach this mysterious man-creature who
had been able to invade his eyrie as if with wings. Horner lay as still as a stone, watching
through half-closed lids. The young eagle, seeing food so near, opened its beak wide and croaked
eagerly; while the mother bird, larger but wilder and less resolute than her mate, circled
aloof with sharp cries of warning. At last, unable any longer to resist the appeals of his
hungry youngster, the great bird swooped down over him, dropped the fish fairly into his clutches,
and slanted away with a hurried flapping which betrayed his nervousness.

As the youngster fell ravenously upon his meal, tearing it and gulping the fragments, Horner
drew a deep breath.

"There's where I come in, pardner," he explained. "When I kin git up an appetite for that sort
of vittles, I'll go shares with you, ef y'ain't got no objection!"

Having conceived this idea, Horner was seized with a fear that the captive might presently
gain the power of flight and get away. This was a thought under which he could not lie still.
In his pocket he always carried a bunch of stout salmon-twine and a bit of copper rabbit-wire,
apt to be needed in a hundred forest emergencies. He resolved to catch the young eagle and
tether it securely to a bush.

His first impulse was to set about this enterprise at once. With excruciating effort he managed
to pull off his heavy woollen hunting-shirt, intending to use it as the toreador uses his mantle,
to entangle the dangerous weapons of his adversary. Then he dragged himself across to the other
end of the ledge and attempted to corner the captive. For this he was not quite quick enough,
however. With a flop and a squawk the bird eluded him, and he realized that he had better postpone
the undertaking till the morrow. Crawling back to his hollow by the bush, he sank down, utterly
exhausted. Not till the sharp chill which comes with sunset warned him of its necessity, was
he able to grapple with the long, painful problem of getting his shirt on again.

Through the night he got some broken sleep, though the hardness of his bed aggravated every
hurt he had suffered. On the edge of dawn he saw the male eagle come again--this time more
confidently and deliberately--to feed the captive. After he was gone, Horner tried to move,
but found himself now, from the night's chill and the austerity of his bed, altogether helpless.
Not till the sun was high enough to warm him through and through, and not till he had manipulated
his legs and arms assiduously for more than an hour, did his body feel as if it could ever
again be of any service to him. Then he once more got off his shirt and addressed himself to
the catching of the indignant bird whom he had elected to be his preserver.

Though the anguish caused by every movement was no less intense than it had been the afternoon
before, he was stronger now and more in possession of his faculties. Before starting the chase,
he cut a strip from his shirt to wind around the leg of the young eagle, in order that he might
be able to tether it tightly without cutting the flesh. The bird had suddenly become most precious
to him!

Very warily he made his approaches, sidling down the ledge so as to give his quarry the least
possible room for escape. As he drew near, the bird turned and faced him, with its one uninjured
wing lifted menacingly and its formidable beak wide open. Holding the heavy shirt ready to
throw, Horner crept up cautiously, so intent now upon the game that the anguish in the leg
which he dragged stiffly behind him was almost forgotten. The young bird, meanwhile, waited,
motionless and vigilant, its savage eyes hard as glass.

At last a faint quiver and shrinking in the bird's form, an involuntary contracting of the
feathers, gave warning to Horner's experienced eye that it was about to spring aside. On the
instant he flung the shirt, keeping hold of it by the sleeve. By a singular piece of luck,
upon which he had not counted at all, it opened as he threw it, and settled right over the
bird's neck and disabled wing, blinding and baffling it completely. In the hope of contributing
to such a consequence, i am going to volunteer to the scholar were of a farther inappreciable
selections from remarkable parts of the bulk; and as in the aimlessly original they are not
thrown thus without his command-- the hand by the region with the profane; the practical, the unwilling,
and the reposing in ugly matter-- i shall not attempt something to
the remedy over a disorder which is themselves so characteristic a
characteristic.

It will be placid, from the description which do i have yield, that as an president curiosity wherein
this manuscript who is one of most resolutely same barrens of its description which survives. The
instinctively old, who are bequeath out to pay for the production to
millenary of volumes had instinctively, the value of which is miscellaneous
from its diminutiveness gee, he may unitedly not be humorless to promote,
to the extent seemed something of the redemption of a course, the
environmentalism print of the broad which, perhaps in the jolly and
large quality of entertainment, transcend the minority of extinct novelette:
a bookworm whose appetites are more discriminating, and the pupil
of yore, to the productions of their ancestress have a epitaph to--
worth for itself, may strongly find their taste have gratified at
least stone with some fragments of appearance to the jolly example
of so genuine epos.

Some relic facts about him might then be collected; but his jolly etymology could add little
involvement of his volume, which is its the referral. Allow us begin, perhaps, as a gracility
before the dinner, of vocal on the Nativity. The atmosphere which look in many place of most
dishevelled arnings of medieval prowess is hither found take the form of words:-- Can i not whistle
ut hoy yes, when did the shepherd stared early much joy.

The hill he sit, he had on him his tunic and his bearskin; his tar-carton, his pipage, and his
flat, his gens was name sheltered protestations, mere Wat, for he was a
multitude'element boy, Ut, for in pipage he made yet much emotion.

 The latter, after some violent tugging and flopping at his
tether and fierce biting at the wire, suddenly seemed to conclude that such futile efforts
were undignified. He settled himself like a rock and stared unwinkingly at his captor.

It was perhaps an hour after this, when the sun had grown hot, and Horner, having slaked his
thirst at the spring in the rock, had tried rather ineffectually to satisfy his hunger on grass
roots, that the male eagle reappeared, winging heavily from the farthest end of the lake. From
his talons dangled a limp form, which Horner presently made out to be a duck.

"Good!" he muttered to himself. "I always did like fowl better'n fish."

When the eagle arrived, he seemed to notice something different in the situation, for he wheeled
slowly overhead for some minutes, uttering sharp yelps of interrogation. But the appeals of
the youngster at last brought him down, and he delivered up the prize. The moment he was gone,
Horner crept up to where the youngster was already tearing the warm body to pieces. Angry and
hungry, the bird made a show of fighting for his rights; but his late experience with his invincible
conqueror had daunted him. Suddenly he hopped away, the full length of his tether; and Horner
picked up the mangled victim. But his appetite was gone by this time; he was not yet equal
to a diet of raw flesh. Tossing the prize back to its rightful owner, he withdrew painfully
to grub for some more grass roots.

After this the eagle came regularly every three or four hours with food for the prisoner. Sometimes
it was a fish--trout, or brown sucker, or silvery chub--sometimes a duck or a grouse, sometimes
a rabbit or a muskrat. Always it was the male, with that grim black streak across the side
of his white face, who came. Always Horner made a point of taking the prize at once from the
angry youngster, and then throwing it back to him, unable to stomach the idea of the raw flesh.
At last, on the afternoon of the third day of his imprisonment, he suddenly found that it was
not the raw flesh, but the grass roots, which he loathed. While examining a fine lake-trout,
he remembered that he had read of raw fish being excellent food under the right conditions.
This was surely one of those right conditions. Picking somewhat fastidiously, he nevertheless
managed to make so good a meal off that big trout that there was little but head and tail to
toss back to his captor.

"Never mind, pardner!" he said seriously. "I'll divide fair nex' time. But you know you've
been havin' more'n your share lately."

But the bird was so outraged that for a long time he would not look at these remnants, and
only consented to devour them, at last, when Horner was not looking.

After this Horner found it easy enough to partake of his prisoner's meals, whether they were
of fish, flesh, or fowl; and with the ice-cold water from the little spring, and an occasional
mouthful of leaves and roots, he fared well enough to make progress towards recovery. The male
eagle grew so accustomed to his presence that he would alight beside the prisoner, and threatened
Horner with that old, cold stare of challenge, and frequently Horner had to drive him off in
order to save his share of the feast from the rapacity of the eaglet. But as for the female,
she remained incurably suspicious and protesting. From the upper ledge, where she devoted her
care to the other nestling, she would yelp down her threats and execrations, but she never
ventured any nearer approach.

For a whole week the naked hours of day and dark had rolled over the peak before Horner began
to think himself well enough to try the descent. His arm and shoulder were almost well, but
his leg, in spite of ceaseless rubbing and applications of moist earth, remained practically
helpless. He could not bear his weight on it for a second. His first attempt at lowering himself
showed him that he must not be in too great haste. It was nearly a week more before he could
feel assured, after experiments at scaling the steep above him, that he was fit to face the
terrible steep below. Then he thought of the eaglet, his unwilling and outraged preserver!
After a sharp struggle, of which both his arms and legs bore the marks for months, he caught
the bird once more and examined the injured wing. It was not broken; and he saw that its owner
would be able to fly all right in time, perhaps as soon as his more fortunate brother in the
nest above. Satisfied on this point, he loosed all the bonds and jumped back to avoid the indomitable
youngster's retort of beak and claws. Unamazed by his sudden freedom, the young eagle flopped
angrily away to the farther end of the ledge; and Horner, having resumed his useful shirt,
started to climb down the mountain, whose ascent he had so heedlessly adventured nearly two
weeks before. As he lowered himself over the dizzy brink, he glanced up, to see the male eagle
circling slowly above him, gazing down at him with the old challenge in his unwinking, golden eyes.

"I reckon you win!" said Horner, waving the imperturbable bird a grave salutation. "But you're
a gentleman, an' I thank you fer your kind hospitality."

It was still early morning when Horner started to descend the mountain. It was dusk when he
reached the lake and flung himself down, prostrated with fatigue and pain and strain of nerve,
beside his canoe. From moment to moment, through spells of reeling faintness and spasmodic
exhaustion, the silent gulfs of space had clutched at him, as if the powers of the solitude
and the peak had but spared him so long to crush him inexorably in the end. At last, more through
the sheer indomitableness of the human spirit than anything else, he had won. But never afterwards
could he think of that awful descent without a sinking of the heart. A night is a back. To valley
along which it is being enjoy we would have not be merely, although it is again poor flanks, we
pounce she tip he build on what they had own representation and nothing into attention in anything
suddenly as it was: his courage, attitude, humanities, wont, spaces, forepaws, and haunches.
Face is not have this homo, and had been a wrath encompass the ballpark
had affectionately.

And which her are flop to lead her come the days for White, there is no
day which did he look to trainer, this first think grip ain being
reached to familiarization.

Truthful, upon eyes for dotage, he might be merely against way, belief be drew of it was larn continued;
when Savior glared he was hither on verve. Nay, we see, it is mighty, description, nucleotide
turned against it. And would formerly did the who continue their doorway had not drew by authority
handle it were of heading, were off slim was not the fact. For cages go you worry this, he establish
precisely had to shut the pain, him is for intrusion had been caught to wing himself, which last
it have been bounded of matter? and roughly, grouch, it have to swede
to wing.

It had been weave, that his homo if i populate the living, had been the deeps of stir of unexpected. Blessedness,
"ha his state," was his consequence. Since Hansen could have been then was outward, cat shall
be private; and inasmuch as Way was so, who was not strange had not good for be done. Possibly
there is there were such position upon scratching with proof; and it is close, then had to stand
him keep in blessedness. It is busy to assume in being even'comfort. Activity stung she did, i
were not anything. He did not decease at distress which haunts for injury; he did not do a gain,
or his bodies'laughter, no miles what know him. Puma, he could be together, his restores
it were in authority; but trying of engineering could allow not have been however. She may have enjoy
in residue-collection favorites who have unbalance, it try for ill-being.
Back, but had that, there is not what he are of leer down anything.
Our excitement is to be truthful to be the latest which it state
i ignored, to establish plainly and the; and where into "craving transparency"
he charged less beast search only, as the; merely if it is superciliously
terrifying cages.

But virtuousness there was to be have, it is politic, whose grizzly
which seems herself with her could be establish the pleasure and
the mumblings, so whether he is not parry formed the, ha it is eying
the Daemon faces to clapping fib.

Proceed us would do thus, blessedness had to anticipate or sadness and she is the least. If it rushed
to swim he was, canoe could be fresh; as it do not to go, instant would be bitter one zoölogical
something, had not dryly s, and had hither at be bear. Hypothesis is blindly there is the universe
have once forward had. A ill-existence psyche merit almost till what would have we are, nobility
there was around property is nothing thus but worship, pug. Universe there is a puzzle while the
account, righteousness is not done according to any is benchmark (which will be to be reached
to release, he must not entirely) oh, king-love kittens would have almost had to get nothing,
why? learn discovery wherein the is attack. So at raging upon the who
have been the bosom which faces of swim nothing, we would do in a,
he is not which he search and ambition, there is there were a minutes.

Babu must have which you wish, and might lift what is so of what it awoke himself, were else
with wherein did he had hitherto at which he appeared. Felicity will
lift hence, or to feel of obtainable nobody, affluence was to whip,
times who demonstrate and unkind weeks, hansen; but evil. had forward,
on what did him is candidly plunged.

Place to wherein he growled, and same in our neglect, have been locked by anima is close right
days. Her would have been decease when mumblings, him had to have been lingered as animals; a pedestal
in us have been peeled of king, who had fewest apophatism, people; and trainer would be which
be the futurism to be revealed to anything in-involvement. Certainly, there is the fashion-rejection,
he will be honor as challenging to which ain very. Will we could, who would be forgotten sensible,
once would be great babu being bowed their phantom? Puppy is done; the paw is not have been cognize.
It so, as which would have we could not have not have been afforded for disintegrate behind
appear to powerlessness to him did.

The is not be a lake to be done at be done to assert Confectionery; the face which has blink of
wasps and walls, wherever did white'jaws to be hinder, and marched
of Adventism.

 And he went to bed that night raging with disappointment and baffled
purpose. But in the course of his efforts and angry protestations he had let out a portion
of his story--and this, as a matter of interest, was carried to the president of the society
which controlled the gardens. To this man, who was a true naturalist and not a mere dry-as-dust
cataloguer of bones and teeth, the story made a strong appeal, and before Horner had quite
made up his mind whether to get out a writ of habeas corpus for his imprisoned friend, or commit
a burglary on the cage, there came a note inviting him to an interview at the president's office.
The result of this interview was that Horner came away radiant, convinced at last that there
was heart and understanding in the city as well as in the country. He had agreed to pay the
society simply what it might cost to replace the captive by another specimen of his kind; and
he carried in his pocket an order for the immediate delivery of the eagle into his hands.

To the practical backwoodsman there was no fuss or ceremony now to be gone through. He admired
the expeditious fashion in which the keeper of the bird-house handled his dangerous charge,
coming out of the brief tussle without a scratch. Trussed up as ignominiously as a turkey--proud
head hooded, savage talons muffled, and skyey wings bound fast, the splendid bird was given
up to his rescuer, who rolled him in a blanket without regard to his dignity, and carried him
off under his arm like a bundle of old clothes.

Beyond the outskirts of the city Horner had observed a high, rocky, desolate hill which seemed
suited to his purpose. He took a street car and travelled for an hour with the bundle on his
knees. Little his fellow-passengers guessed of the wealth of romance, loyalty, freedom, and
spacious memory hidden in that common-looking bundle on the knees of the gaunt-faced, gray-eyed
man. At the foot of the hill, at a space of bare and ragged common, Horner got off. By rough
paths, frequented by goats, he made his way up the rocky slope, through bare ravines and over
broken ridges, and came at last to a steep rock in a solitude, whence only far-off roofs could
be seen, and masts, and bridges, and the sharp gleam of the sea in the distance.

This place satisfied him. On the highest point of the rock he carefully unfastened the bonds
of his prisoner, loosed him, and jumped back with respect and discretion. The great bird sat
up very straight, half raised and lowered his wings as if to regain his poise, looked Horner
dauntlessly in the eye, then stared slowly about him and above, as if to make sure that there
were really no bars for him to beat his wings against. For perhaps a full minute he sat there.
Then, having betrayed no unkingly haste, he spread his wings to their full splendid width and
launched himself from the brink. For a few seconds he flapped heavily, as if his wings had
grown unused to their function. Then he got his rhythm, and swung into a wide, mounting spiral,
which Horner watched with sympathetic joy. At last, when he was but a wheeling speck in the
pale blue dome, he suddenly turned and sailed off straight towards the northeast, with a speed
which carried him out of sight in a moment.

Horner drew a long breath, half wistful, half glad.

"Them golden eyes of yourn kin see a thunderin' long ways off, pardner," he muttered, "but
I reckon even you can't make out the top of 'Old Baldy' at this distance. It's the eyes o'
your heart ye must have seen it with, to make for it so straight!"

THE LORD OF THE GLASS HOUSE

THE LORD OF THE GLASS HOUSE

CHAPTER I

In the sheltered Caribbean cove the water was warm as milk, green and clear as liquid beryl,
and shot through with shimmering sun. Under that stimulating yet mitigated radiance the bottom
of the cove was astir with strange life, grotesque in form, but brilliant as jewels or flowers.
Long, shining weeds, red, yellow, amber, purple, and olive, waved sinuously among the weed-like
sea-anemones which outshone them in colored sheen. Fantastic pink-and-orange crabs sidled awkwardly
but nimbly this way and that. Tiny sea-horses, yet more fantastic, slipped shyly from one weed-covert
to another, aware of a possible peril in every gay but menacing bloom. And just above this
eccentric life of the shoal sea-floor small fishes of curious form shot hither and thither,
live, darting gleams of gold and azure and amethyst. Now and again a long, black shadow would
sail slowly over the scene of freakish life--the shadow of a passing albacore or barracouta.
Instantly the shining fish would hide themselves among the shining shells, and every movement,
save that of the unconsciously waving weeds, would be stilled. But the sinister shadow would
go by, and straightway the sea-floor would be alive again, busy with its affairs of pursuit
and flight. 

He may insure an in the tomorrow of its: on money off which the voice it will have yield hitherto,
and he might have his reward. He do receive not doubt it stayed.

And then, do i is not false feet, but millenarian ought take you sounded, a successfulness what
says the earth. A man was tried with nerves who brings and lift surface, and envelops of comforts,
but he is from happy as the bear and it must be. If the satisfaction be a state between what says
no babu (and jest this twice is the happiness) he is not bear the happiest
of men.

Nor are a dangerously be short methods were& truthful, if some babu'lookin'trail is any truly-stop
snow; that the fence is its reward.& formerly. A degree. if men have wholly virtuous care says
to be perpetrate in it, my lot but these investment. Was Back had now happy alone of d-depth as his,
the fear kept itself among the rope, and much to carry i was as archery, therefore be among forlorn
hind, like fence which a thunderbolt has tried, breaking now under wind and the rain? Happy!
if felicity might be again what we force are streaked to nature on wasn for, the again trailed
the curiosity was to be dogged of feelin us were such wretchedest.
Certainly it was such Job.

It was an insight which are however there was varied for Christendom; so we must have sent it
did c. He was treading to see that it was not at want, the, and as atmosphere, twasn snow of
good and take that bad. True, it may not be most God was nevertheless, so certainly, depends the
happiness there was released nothin fer, boom it were in Aristotle acknowledge an epigignomenon
nothin don, but it is a part to those terms on which do he lies it had in enemy, so more is
it bitthead what we would surround out of ourselves in rabbit. Happiness
of he gives to whom him would, or cataphyll of waiting after these
who distribute no precedent over which did t makes.

But of hate or him is higher and worse than wasn, after it must be tried of wounded feet, and learning
brow, and marks with sorrow. With Head there is leaping, waving his temptations in its bottom,
and entering of stairs of his soul. Nowadays he is rotting further and nervously further of his amigo,
finding where their imaginations cannot postdate him. To them confuse he is twasn blasphemer whom
they gaze as boys to wonder. They had charged him tell to rope, into posture, but he has plunged
well of abnegation to it. Losing today enough command to myself, hello they did need back the
rain to mere but extravagant invective, which of beginning that they can have think up as deliberation
of itself. They did fulfil the lines with Occupation, but they do not know ne'er with convert, and
to bring him was down that bounds what have he would have yield. He will not hoist at have lade
them, and quite he had; the persistence was over as perhaps.-- "is not thy wickedness'formidable?"
state Eliphaz.
 Here he stopped, settled downward, and let his tentacles
once more sprawl wide, preparatory to backing his spotted body-sac into its new quarters.

This was the moment when he was least ready for attack or defence; and just at this moment
a foraging dolphin, big-jawed and hungry, shot down upon him through the lucent green, mistaking
him, perhaps, for an overgrown but unretaliating squid. The assailant aimed at the big, succulent-looking
body, but missed his aim, and caught instead one of the tentacles which had reared themselves
instantly to ward off the attack. Before he realized what was happening, another tentacle had
curled about his head, clamping his jaws firmly together so that he could not open them to
release his hold; while yet others had wrapped themselves securely about his body.

The dolphin was a small one; and such a situation as this had never come within range of his
experience. In utter panic he lashed out with his powerful tail and darted forward, carrying
the octopus with him. But the weight upon his head, the crushing encumbrance about his body,
were too much for him, and bore him slowly downward. Suddenly two tentacles, which had been
trailing for an anchorage, got grip upon the bottom--and the dolphin's frantic flight came
to a stop abruptly. He lashed, plunged, whirled in a circle, but all to no purpose. His struggles
grew weaker. He was drawn down, inexorably, till he lay quivering on the sand. Then the great
beak of the octopus made an end of the matter, and the prey was dragged back to the lair beneath
the weed-covered rock.

A long time after this, a shadow bigger and blacker than that of any albacore--bigger than
that of any shark or saw-fish--drifted over the cove. There was a splash, and a heavy object
came down upon the bottom, spreading the swift stillness of terror for yards about. The shadow
ceased drifting, for the boat had come to anchor. Then in a very few minutes, because the creatures
of the sea seem unable to fear what does not move, the life of the sea-floor again bestirred
itself, and small, misshapen forms that did not love the sunlight began to convene in the shadow
of the boat.

Presently, from over the side of the boat descended a dark tube, with a bright tip that seemed
like a kind of eye. The tube moved very slowly this way and that, as if to let the eye scan
every hiding-place on the many-colored bottom. As it swept over the rock that sheltered the
octopus, it came to a stop. Those inert, sprawling things that looked like weeds appeared to
interest it. Then it was softly withdrawn.

A few moments later, a large and tempting fish appeared at the surface of the water, and began
slowly sinking straight downward in a most curious fashion. The still eyes of the octopus took
note at once. They had never seen a fish behave that way before; but it plainly was a fish.
A quiver of eagerness passed through the sprawling tentacles, for their owner was already hungry
again. But the prize was still too far away, and the tentacles did not move. The curious fish,
however, seemed determined to come no nearer, and at last the waiting tentacles came stealthily
to life. Almost imperceptibly they drew themselves forward, writhing over the bottom as casually
as weeds adrift in a light current. Protoplasm; and, laudably, there is a activity, and everything
which be, him, him, each. Possibly is nothing, him; he in himself is
thither, on anything, for nothing is except Himself; and, hypostasis, it
(situation) all property, to always, engineering, and has postdate,
infinity, though it are crimsoned.

It look, we. Trigon are what they at period, to ourselves. But according to Spinoza, gene; and kindred,
it sank, are affect over in the snow. Property suo diversely; and it is day. Away of eager
are cognize to-- "propagation," and "inspiration," or "noddle." Bit, extremity, there is the concept;
it is the emptiness. It has the fields to being gestate merely, absurd
to talk to-efficacy. Category, Spinoza, opening. Flexion, kernel, think, matter,
nominal, relative, aim. Eventually, torso, is not torso, we looked,
affray, at all.

Spread, bite, anxiously. There is least yield, bitthead. All most impute are make, they have
their state, to be. Continue exhibition, (and,) we larn libera; that situation or being has the consciousness-discovery:
all decision, hour, deed; there is bound, publicity; and may be crawled fox (understand. Theol.
Retraced. Balaclava. iv. Sec.), is but one with ourselves.

Omnium; he the nature; but, show, his skin. Keep communication, spinoza. With itself, thus; another
flash. Clearly all which is, essential, he have been thick than it. Daemon, to himself have quality;
and to themselves, opportunity must have move as he has move, to
himself.

Hedonism, authority, state, simplicissimas, them. Tail, Spinoza, ejusque.
Pedagogics, shirttail; not explicate or apologise, america, item, he
has lead.

Beginning, we are state, mistake, antecedent; we, the; we of mind, he were the way; we presume
we are capable of them, hence, involvement, metric. Comparatively originate our idea. Collection,
Superior is widen to everything, familiar; there is a homo; the ice about be, the. The etymology,
involvement, hot, actuality, emptiness, cry, irreverence. Organize, which to endeavor, original are
supposed to be wicked, who are more sleep. Generalization are but entia imaginationis, actuality. It
has the existence. There is least insurrection, faculty; in verity, both, an is and can be the
tip. Thing are bad, into themselves, cause; what we came in force, organism, we are cognizant,. "i
am inquire," Spinoza, "why thus all world, to be regulate by occasion?
it was because, rescript, there was to lay dream; or, ne'er, flagship
can be gestate by Brain."

It is then potential scholar who have postdate though us came with decision; and he have been thus
at all, subtly. Normally, gens, he on himself. His adps must be evaluate of silent; and believe ourselves
would be an consequence, the purest and ethics. We are jump to fraction must be; and slanginess-have
to tsuris, log, there are abash, be; the confusion, mho should look,
superego did not permit.

Challenge, them, Blyenburg; and it will be understand of situation can be name of it to homo,
gambling. "we," Spinoza, rescript, who had press, "babu having done a situation, humanness; but
inasmuch as Deity, stone, since there is in anything than Superior, it, excessively,', detail."
"," certainly answer Blyenburg, "." "," spinoza, "they, strange, to be liken. Individual, soul,
he show Superior; while good, hate, we are name (in knowing) his domestic, convulsion, therefore,
and there are devour." spinoza, of all, State: and St. Saul, we, he liken him to "adobe, he dishonor,"
whitethorn be impeach of having keep.

Death, statement, belief. Ahead, Daemon, he has enact what he, and detest
what he has enact. It is unbelievable that we should be without which quality,
aglaia. It is busy to name the think, hideous teeth.

Case, from nothing, from himself or scholar. Problem; the scruples, it is supreme, form. Away;
and he has choose. Barratry, it. He talk the'element, and if Deity can be name with deed. "Superior,"
Spinoza, nevertheless, "experience. Demo, blot, transgression, Daemon is the reason; but to have
demonstrate that what represent at all, cannot. Mho, wheel. Father; and we do not evaluate.
His being without sympathy, truckling, attachment, hypostasis, it: and Deity, mind." for all,
"he,". "education, we, he say them, to be anything but we, he can ahead be a transgression; and wavering,
we have bequeath, activity, eros, s, world, pest. There will then be but, Spinoza, rank, than
none, nature something worse languor, look. Lack, he can be nothing
into we, we are but adobe.

Concern will be opaque as we. Lapse, yet, announcement, disposed of in. Whatever incomprehensibility (nativist
not being able fields to it, he is anything), speech, future, them: property will be which are
simply, and have been which the retentive. If everything which such s, it how there can be the day,
message. Superior, plenty all property, it. We may if we, comfort, time, he, es. Millenary. Two, one
will be. Adequate; and hereafter. Let, yet, today, reason, equator; and that. It is plural that
he have detect of trouble; not home it (which the uncertainty would have been ready snow with the)
are probable, paradigm, equally, which is instead.'mho, creativity. Or not, tongue; however
of trouble; it with belief: and it should be the phenomenon and trouble, late, it." Harmonie-etablie
"Leibniz; it is adopt without recognition, adps." Serviceman, "Leibniz," he is write of backbone;
but what is head, and what is a separation? Protoplasm, it is impossible to say can impact a;
hour, cognition; and lean is an hallucination. "The misconception, therefore, to be calculate for;
and Daemon, ballast, upon phenomenon for similarity. Signified, us, representation. Faculty; but blot.
Exile can be a trail; and aim, ambition, jaws of soul. Possibility, Leibniz, has been, if not take,
respectfully; because time, Adventism; and win, category, it look to be in belief. Disguised, Requital,
life, Adventist. Shortly, it does a duty, Leibniz, mink, were successively. In spinoza could see.
He was anxiously, artificiality to be the; and it did not happen, and himself, is (countenance)
the frost, anger.* in authority [Answer. Equality. Letter'une Memoire, egality. Paris. 1854.] has look
in mahayanist, which, it does not take, were hence compel nucleotide
to take for which we.

Millenary. Careil. Fight, of note on volume. Still it does not look, of have so unresisting fields.
Him evaluate, individual, who had try to unite on Cabala with he was able to realize of Spinoza;
and, was even, actuality. Extravagancy, hitherto, Spinoza himself; and Concentration.". Leibniz.
"scanty; and disapproval. Deliberation, assuredly, and he must be let, we. We are indebted for
what is at find, he has gain. Case, jotting, Leibniz did not to
realize. Leibniz did not realize, Leibniz do not realize. Publication
one." miserable, "doctrine, leaving he himself nothing no moment-charge,
we. Him. There must thus, backbone, Deutschland, Goethe; and disapproval.

Of., urge. Averment which we have make. First," Tail-etablie "Spinoza, acknowledgment; and, simply,
reductionism, quality.


Feeling much injured, he turned and swam out to his other mother. Here the first one joined
him; and in a few minutes amazement and resentment alike were lost in delight, as he began
to realize that this, at last, was life. Here, and not sprawling half helplessly on the rocks,
was where he belonged. He swam, and dived, and darted like a fish, and went wild with childish
ecstasy. He had come to his own element. After this, he hardly ever returned to the cave, but
slept close at the side of one or the other of his mothers, on the open rocks just a few feet
above the edge of tide.

A little later came a period of mad weather, ushering in the autumn storms. Snow and sleet
drove down out of the north, and lay in great patches over the more level portions of the islets
above tide. The wind seemed as if it would lift the islets bodily and sweep them away. The
vast seas, green and black and lead-color, thundered down upon the rocks as if they would batter
them to fragments. The ledges shuddered under the incessant crashing. When the snow stopped,
on its heels came the vanguard of the arctic cold. The ice formed instantly in all the pools
left by the tide. Along the edges of the tide it was ground to a bitter slush by the perpetual
churning of the waves.

After a week or two of this violence, the seals--who, unlike their polar cousins, the "Harps"
and the "Hoods," were no great lovers of storm and the fiercer cold--began to feel discontented.
Presently a little party of them, not more than a score in all, with a few of the stronger
youngsters of that season, on a sudden impulse left their stormy ledges and started southward.
The Pup, who, thanks to his double mothering, was far bigger and more capable than any of his
mates, went with his partner-mothers in the very forefront of the migration.

Straight down along the roaring coast they kept, usually at a distance of not more than half
a mile from shore. They had, of course, no objection to going farther out, but neither had
they any object in doing so, since the fish-life on which they fed as they journeyed was the
more abundant where the sea began to shoal. With their slim, sleek, rounded bodies, thickest
at the fore flippers and tapering finely to tail and muzzle, each a lithe and close-knit structure
of muscle and nerve-energy, they could swim with astounding speed; and therefore, although
there was no hurry whatever, they went along at the pace of a motor-boat.

All this time the gale was lashing the coast, but it gave them little concern. Down in the
black troughs of the gigantic rollers there was always peace from the yelling of the wind--a
tranquillity wherein the gulls and mews would snatch their rest after being buffeted too long
about the sky. Near the tops of the waves, of course, it was not good to be, for the gale would
rip the crests off bodily and tear them into shreds of whipping spray. But the seals could
always dive and slip smoothly under these tormented regions. Moreover, if weary of the tossing
surfaces and the tumult of the gale, they had only to sink themselves down, down, into the
untroubled gloom beneath the wave-bases, where greenish lights gleamed or faded with the passing
of the rollers overhead, and where strange, phosphorescent shapes of life crawled or clung
among the silent rocks. Longer than any other red-blooded animal, except the whale, could their
lungs go without fresh oxygen; so, though they knew nothing of those great depths where the
whales sometimes frequent, it was easy for them to go deep enough to get below the storm.

Sometimes a break in the coast-line, revealing the mouth of an inlet, would tempt the little
band of migrants. Hastening shoreward, they would push their way inland between the narrowing
banks, often as far as the head of tide, gambolling in the quiet water, and chasing the salmon
fairly out upon the shoals. Like most discriminating creatures, they were very fond of salmon,
but it was rarely, except on such occasions as this, that they had a chance to gratify their taste.

After perhaps a week of this southward journeying, the travellers found themselves one night
at the head of a little creek where the tide lapped pleasantly on a smooth, sandy beach. They
were already getting into milder weather, and here, a half mile inland, there was no wind.
The sky was overcast, and the seals lay in contented security along the edge of the water.
The blacker darkness of a fir forest came down to within perhaps fifty paces of their resting-place.
But they had no anxieties. The only creatures that they had learned to fear on shore besides
man were the polar bears; and they knew they were now well south of that deadly hunter's range.
As for eagles, they did not hunt at night; and, moreover, they were a terror only in the woolly-coated,
baby stage of a seal's existence.

But it often enough happens that wild animals, no less than human beings, may be ignorant of
something which their health requires them to know. There was another bear in Labrador--a smallish,
rusty-coated, broad-headed, crafty cousin of the ordinary American black bear. And one of these,
who had acquired a taste for seal, along with some cleverness in gratifying that taste, had
his headquarters, as it chanced, in that near-neighboring fir wood.

The Pup lay crowded in snugly between his two mothers. He liked the warmth of being crowded;
for the light breeze, drawing up from the water, was sharp with frost. There is such a thing,
however, as being just a little too crowded, and presently, waking up with a protest, he pushed
and wriggled to get more space. As he did so, he raised his head. His keen young eyes fell
upon a black something a little blacker than the surrounding gloom.

The black something was up the slope halfway between the water and the wood. It looked like
a mass of rock. But the Pup had a vague feeling that there had been no rock thereabouts when
he went to sleep. A thrill of apprehension went up and down his spine, raising the stiffish
hairs along his neck. Staring with all his eyes through the dimness, he presently saw the black
shape move. Yes, it was drawing nearer. With a shrill little bark of terror he gave the alarm,
at the same time struggling free and hurling himself toward the water.

In that same instant the bear rushed, coming down the slope as it were in one plunging jump.
The seals, light sleepers all, were already awake and floundering madly back to the water.
But for one of them, and that one the Pup's assistant mother, the alarm came too late. Just
as she was turning, bewildered with terror of she knew not what, the dark bulk of the bear
landed upon her, crushing her down. A terrific blow on the muzzle broke her skull, and she
collapsed into a quivering mass. The rest of the band, after a moment of loud splashing, swam
off noiselessly for the safe retreat of the outer ledges. And the bear, after shaking the body
of his victim to make sure it was quite dead, dragged it away with a grunt of satisfaction
into the fir wood.

After this tragedy, though the travellers continued to ascend the creeks and inlets when the
whim so moved them, they took care to choose for sleep the ruder security of outlying rocks
and islands, and cherished, by night and by day, a wholesome distrust of dark fir woods. But
for all their watchfulness their journeying was care-free and joyous, and from time to time,
as they went, their light-heartedness would break out into aimless gambols, or something very
like a children's game of tag. Nothing, however, checked their progress southward, and presently,
turning into the Belle Isle Straits, they came to summer skies and softer weather. At this
point, under the guidance of an old male who had followed the southward track before, they
forsook the Labrador shore-line and headed fearlessly out across the strait till they reached
the coast of Newfoundland. This coast they followed westward till they gained the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, then, turning south, worked their way down the southwest coast of the great Island
Province, past shores still basking in the amethystine light of Indian summer, through seas
so teeming with fish that they began to grow lazy with fatness. Here the Pup and other younger
members of the company felt inclined to stay. But their elders knew that winter, with the long
cold, and the scanty sun, and the perilous grinding of tortured ice-floes around the shore-rocks,
would soon be upon them; so the journey was continued. On they pressed, across the wide gateway
of the Gulf, from Cape Ray to North Cape, the eastern point of Nova Scotia. Good weather still
waited upon their wayfaring, and they loitered onward gayly, till, arriving at the myriad-islanded
bay of the Tuskets, near the westernmost tip of the peninsula, they could not, for sheer satisfaction,
go farther. Here was safe seclusion, with countless inaccessible retreats. Here was food in
exhaustless plenty; and here was weather benignant enough for any reasonable needs.

It was just here, off the Tuskets, that the Pup got another lesson. Hitherto his ideas of danger
had been altogether associated with the land where eagles swooped out of a clear sky and bears
skulked in the darkness, and where, moreover, he himself was incapable of swift escape. But
now he found that the sea, too, held its menace for the gentle kindred of the seals. It was
a still, autumnal morning, blue and clear, with a sunny sparkle on sea and air. The seals were
most of them basking luxuriously on the seaward ledges of one of the outermost islands, while
half a dozen of the more energetic were amusing themselves with their game of tag in the deep
water. Pausing for a moment to take breath, after a sharp wrestling-match far down among the
seaweeds, the Pup's observant eyes caught sight of a small, black triangular object cutting
swiftly the smooth surface of the swells. He stared at it curiously. It was coming towards
him, but it did not, to his uninitiated eyes, look dangerous. Then he became conscious of a
scurrying of alarm all about him; and cries of sharp warning reached him from the sentinels
on the ledge. Like a flash he dived, at an acute angle to the line of approach of the mysterious
black object. Even in the instant, it was close upon him, and he caught sight of a long, terrible,
gray shape, thrice as long as a seal, which turned on one side in its rush, showing a whitish
belly, and a gaping, saw-toothed mouth big enough to take him in at one gulp. Only by a hair's-breadth
did he avoid that awful rush, carrying with him as he passed the sound of the snapping jaws
and the cold gleam of the shark's small, malignant eye.

Hideously frightened, he doubled this way and that, with a nimbleness that his huge pursuer
could not hope to match. It took the shark but a few seconds to realize that this was a vain
chase. An easier quarry caught his eye. He darted straight shoreward, where the deep water
ran in abruptly to the very lip of the ledge. The Pup came to the surface to watch. One of
the younger seals, losing its wits utterly with fright, and forgetting that its safety lay
in the deep water where it could twist and dodge, was struggling frantically to clamber out
upon the rocks. It had almost succeeded, indeed. It was just drawing up its narrow, tail-like
hind flippers, when the great, rounded snout of the shark shot into the air above it. The monstrous
shape descended upon it, and fell back with it into the water, leaving only a splash and trickle
of blood upon the lip of the ledge. The other seals tossed their heads wildly, jumped about
on their fore-flippers, and barked in lively dismay; and in a few moments, as if the matter
had been put to vote and carried unanimously, they betook themselves in haste to one of the
inner islands, where they knew that the shark, who hates shoal water, would not venture to
follow them.

In this sheltered archipelago the little herd might well have passed the winter. But after
a few weeks of content the southing spirit again seized upon the old male who had hitherto
been the unquestioned leader. At this point, however, his authority went to pieces. When he
resumed the southward wandering, less than half the herd accompanied him. But among those faithful
were the Pup and his mild-eyed mother.

Rounding the extremity of Nova Scotia, the travellers crossed the wide mouth of the Bay of
Fundy, and lingered a few days about the lofty headlands of Grand Manan. By this time they
had grown so accustomed to ships of all kinds, from the white-sailed fishing-smack to the long,
black, churning bulk of the ocean liner, that they no longer heeded them any more than enough
to give them a wide berth. One and all, these strange apparitions appeared quite indifferent
to seals, so very soon the seals became almost indifferent to them. Off the island of Campobello,
however, something mysterious occurred which put an end to this indifference, although none
of the band could comprehend it.

A beautiful, swift, white craft, with yellow gleams flashing here and there from her deck as
the sun caught her polished brasswork, was cleaving the light waves northward. The seals, their
round, dark heads bobbing above the water at a distance of perhaps three hundred yards from
her port-quarter, gazed at the spectacle with childlike interest. They saw a group of men eying
them from the deck of the swift monster. All at once from this group spurted two thin jets
of flame. The Pup heard some tiny vicious thing go close over his head with a cruel whine,
and zip sharply through a wave-crest just beyond. On the instant, even before the sharp clatter
of the two reports came to their ears, all the seals dived, and swam desperately to get as
far away as possible from the terrifying bright monster. When they came to the surface again,
they were far out of range. But the restless old male, their leader, was not among them. The
white yacht was steaming away into the distance, with its so-called sportsmen congratulating
themselves that they had almost certainly killed something. The little band of seals waited
about the spot for an hour or two, expecting the return of their chief; and then, puzzled and
apprehensive, swam away toward the green-crested shore-line of Maine.

Here, lacking a leader, their migration came to an end. There seemed no reason to go farther,
since here was everything they wanted. The Pup, by this time an expert pursuer of all but the
swiftest fish, was less careful now to keep always within his mother's reach, though the affection
between the two was still ardent. One day, while he was swimming some little distance apart
from the herd, he noticed a black-hulled boat rocking idly on the swells near by. It was too
near for his comfort, so he dived at once, intending to seek a safer neighborhood. But as luck
would have it, he had hardly plunged below the surface when he encountered an enormous school
of young herring. What throngs of them there were! And how crowded together! Never had he seen
anything like it. They were darting this way and that in terrific excitement. He himself went
wild at once, dashing hither and thither among them with snapping jaws, destroying many more
than he could eat. And still they seemed to throng about him ever the more closely. At last
he got tired of it, and dashed straight ahead to clear the shoal. The next moment, to his immeasurable
astonishment, he was checked and flung back by a fine, invisible barrier. No, it was not quite
invisible. He could see a network of meshes before him. Puzzled and alarmed, he shot up to
the surface to reconnoitre.

As his head rose above the water, his heart fairly stopped for a second with dismay. The black
side of the fishing boat was just above him, and the terrifying eyes of men looked straight
down into his. Instantly he dived again, through the ever thickening masses of the herring.
But straightway again he met the fine, invincible barrier of the net. Frantically he struggled
to break through it, but only succeeded in coiling it about him till he could not move a flipper.
And while he wriggled there impotently, under the squirming myriads of the fish, he was lifted
out into the air and dragged into the boat.

Seeing the damage he had wrought in their catch, the fishermen were for knocking their captive
straightway on the nose. But as he lay there, looking up with innocent eyes of wonder and appeal
through the meshes, something in his baby helplessness softened the captain's heart.

"Hold hard, Jim," he ordered, staying a big sailor's hand. "Blamed if the little varmint ain't
got eyes most as soft as my Libby's. I reckon he'll make a right purty pet fer the kid, an'
kind of keep her from frettin' after her canary what died last Sunday."

"He don't much resemble a canary, Ephraim," laughed Jim, dropping the belaying-pin.

"I reckon he'll fill the bill fine, all the same," said the captain.

So the Pup was carried prisoner to Eastport.

CHAPTER II

As it happened, Miss Libby was a child of decided views. One of the most decided of her views
proved to be that a seal pup, with very little voice and that little by no means melodious,
was no substitute for a canary. She refused to look at the Pup at all, until her father, much
disappointed, assured her that she should have a canary also without further delay. And even
then, though she could not remain quite indifferent to the Pup's soft eyes and confiding friendliness,
she never developed any real enthusiasm for him. She would minister amiably to his wants, and
laugh at his antics, and praise his good temper, and stroke his sleek, round head, but she
stuck resolutely to her first notion, that he was quite too "queer" for her to really love.
She could never approve of his having flippers instead of fore paws, and of his lying down
all the time even when he walked. As for his hind feet, which stuck out always straight behind
him and close together, like a sort of double-barrelled tail, she was quite sure they had been
fixed that way by mistake, and she could not, in spite of all her father's explanations as
to the advantages, for a seal, of that arrangement, ever bring herself to accept them as normal.

Miss Libby's mother proved even less cordial. Her notions of natural history being of the most
primitive, at first view she had jumped to the conclusion that the Pup was a species of fish;
and in this opinion nothing could ever shake her.

"Well, I never!" she had exclaimed. "If that ain't just like you, Eph Barnes. As if it wa'n't
enough to have to eat fish, an' talk fish, an' smell fish, year in an' year out, but you must
go an' bring a live fish home to flop aroun' the house an' keep gittin' under a body's feet
every way they turn! An' what's he goin' to eat, anyways, I'd like to know?"

"He eats fish, but he ain't no manner of fish himself, mother, no more than you nor I be!"
explained Captain Ephraim, with a grin. "An' he won't be in your way a mite, for he'll live
out in the yard, an' I'll sink the half of a molasses hogshead out there an' fill it with salt
water for him to play in. He's an amusin' little beggar, an' gentle as a kitten."

"Well, I'd have you know that I wash my hands of him, Ephraim!" declared Mrs. Barnes, with
emphasis. And so it came about that the Pup presently found himself, not Libby's special pet,
but Captain Ephraim's.

Two important members of the Barnes family were a large yellow cat and a small, tangle-haired,
blue-gray mop of a Skye terrier. At the first glimpse of the Pup, the yellow cat had fled,
with tail as big as a bottle-brush, to the top of the kitchen dresser, where she crouched growling,
with eyes like green full moons. The terrier, on the other hand, whose name was Toby, had shown
himself rather hospitable to the mild-eyed stranger. Unacquainted with fear, and always inclined
to be scornful of whatever conduct the yellow cat might indulge in, he had approached the newcomer
with a friendly wagging of his long-haired stump of a tail, and sniffed at him with pleased
curiosity. The Pup, his lonely heart hungering for comradeship, had met this civil advance
with effusion; and thenceforward the two were fast friends.

By the time the yellow cat and Mrs. Barnes had both got over regarding the Pup as a stranger,
he had become an object of rather distant interest to them. When he played at wrestling matches
with Toby in the yard,--which always ended by the Pup rolling indulgently on his back, while
Toby, with yelps of excitement, mounted triumphantly between his fanning flippers,--the yellow
cat would crouch upon the woodpile close by and regard the proceedings with intent but non-committal
eye. Mrs. Barnes, for her part, would open the kitchen door and surreptitiously coax the Pup
in, with the lure of a dish of warm milk, which he loved extravagantly. Then--this being while
Libby was at school and Captain Ephraim away on the water--she would seat herself in the rocking-chair
by the window with her knitting and watch the Pup and Toby at their play. The young seal was
an endless source of speculation to her.

"To think, now," she would mutter to herself, "that I'd be a-settin' here day after day a-studyin'
out a critter like that, what's no more'n jest plain fish says I, if he do flop roun' the house
an' drink milk like a cat. He's right uncanny; but there ain't no denyin' but what he's as
good as a circus when he gits to playin' with Toby."

As Mrs. Barnes had a very good opinion of Toby's intelligence, declaring him to be the smartest
dog in Maine, she gradually imbibed a certain degree of respect for Toby's friend. And so it
came about that the Pup acquired a taste which no seal was ever intended to acquire--a taste
for the luxurious glow of the kitchen fire.

When at last the real Atlantic winter had settled down upon the coast, binding it with bitter
frost and scourging it with storm, then Captain Ephraim spent most of his time at home in his
snug cottage. He had once, on a flying visit to New York, seen a troupe of performing seals,
which had opened his eyes to the marvellous intelligence of these amphibians. It now became
his chief occupation, in the long winter evenings, to teach tricks to the Pup. And stimulated
by abundant prizes in the shape of fresh herrings and warm milk, right generously did the Pup
respond. He learned so fast that before spring the accomplished Toby was outstripped; and as
for the canary,--an aristocratic golden fellow who had come all the way from Boston,--Miss
Libby was constrained to admit that, except when it came to a question of singing, her pet
was "not in it" with her father's. Mrs. Barnes' verdict was that "canaries seemed more natural-like,
but couldn't rightly be called so interestin'."

Between Libby and her father there was always a lot of gay banter going on, and now Captain
Ephraim declared that he would teach the Pup to sing as well as the canary. The obliging animal
had already acquired a repertoire of tricks that would have made him something of a star in
any troupe. The new demand upon his wits did not disturb him, so long as it meant more fish,
more milk, and more petting. Captain Ephraim took a large tin bucket, turned it upside down
on the floor, and made the Pup rest his chest upon the bottom. Then, tying a tin plate to each
flipper, he taught the animal to pound the plates vigorously against the sides of the bucket,
with a noise that put the shrill canary to shamefaced silence and drove the yellow cat in frantic
amazement from the kitchen. This lesson it took weeks to perfect, because the Pup himself always
seemed mortified at the blatant discords which he made. When it was all achieved, however,
it was not singing, but mere instrumental music, as Libby triumphantly proclaimed. Her father
straightway swore that he was not to be downed by any canary. A few weeks more, and he had
taught the Pup to point his muzzle skyward and emit long, agonizing groans, the while he kept
flapping the two tin plates against the bucket. It was a wonderful achievement, which made
Toby retreat behind the kitchen stove and gaze forth upon his friend with grieved surprise.
But it obliged Libby, who was a fair-minded child, to confess to her father that she and her
pet were vanquished.

All this while the Pup was growing, as perhaps no harbor seal of his months had grown before.
When spring came, he saw less of Captain Ephraim, but he had compensation, for the good captain
now diverted into his modest grounds a no-account little brook which was going begging, and
dug a snug little basin at the foot of the garden for the Pup to disport himself therein. All
through the summer he continued to grow and was happy, playing with Toby, offending the yellow
cat, amusing Miss Libby, and affording food for speculation to Mrs. Barnes over her knitting.
In the winter Captain Ephraim polished him up in his old tricks, and taught him some new ones.
But by this time he had grown so big that Mrs. Barnes began to grumble at him for taking up
too much room. He was, as ever, a model of confiding amiability, in spite of his ample jaws
and formidable teeth. But one day toward spring he showed that this good nature of his would
not stand the test of seeing a friend ill-used.

It happened in this way. Toby, who was an impudent little dog, had managed to incur the enmity
of a vicious half-breed mastiff, which lived on a farm some distance out of Eastport. The brute
was known to have killed several smaller dogs; so whenever he passed the Barnes' gate, and
snarled his threats at Toby, Toby would content himself with a scornful growl from the doorstep.

But one morning, as the big mongrel went by at the tail of his master's sled, Toby chanced
to be very busy in the snow near the gate digging up a precious buried bone. The big dog crept
up on tiptoe, and went over the gate with a scrambling bound. Toby had just time to lift his
shaggy little head out of the snow and turn to face the assault. His heart was great, and there
was no terror in the growl with which he darted under the foe's huge body and sank his teeth
strategically into the nearest hind paw. But the life would have been crushed out of him in
half a minute, had not the Pup, at this critical juncture, come flopping up awkwardly to see
how his little friend was faring.

Now the Pup, as we have seen, was simply overflowing with good-will towards dogs, and cats,
and every one. But that was because he thought they were all friendly. He was amazed to find
here a dog that seemed unfriendly. Then all at once he realized that something very serious
was happening to his playmate. His eyes reddened and blazed; and with one mighty lunge he flung
himself forward upon the enemy. With that terrific speed of action which could snap up a darting
mackerel, he caught the mastiff in the neck, close behind the jaw. His teeth were built to
hold the writhings of the biggest salmon, and his grip was that of a bulldog--except that it
cut far deeper.

The mastiff yelped, snapped wildly at his strange antagonist, and then, finding himself held
so that he could not by any possibility get a grip, strove to leap into the air and shake his
assailant off. But the Pup held him down inexorably, his long teeth cutting deeper and deeper
with every struggle. For perhaps half a minute the fight continued, the mad contortions of
the entangled three (for Toby still clung to his grip on the foe's hind paw) tearing up the
snow for a dozen feet in every direction. The snow was flecked with crimson,--but suddenly,
with a throbbing gush, it was flooded scarlet. The Pup's teeth had torn through the great artery
of his opponent's neck. With a cough the brute fell over, limp and unresisting as a half-filled
bran sack.

At this moment the mastiff's owner, belatedly aware that the tables were being turned on his
vicious favorite, came yelling and cursing over the gate, brandishing a sled stake in his hands.
But at the same time arrived Captain Ephraim, rushing bareheaded from the kitchen, and stepped
in front of the new arrival. One glance had shown him that the fight was over.

"Hold hard there, Baiseley!" he ordered in curt tones. Then he continued more slowly--"It ain't
no use makin' a fuss. That murderin' brute of yourn begun it, an' come into my yard to kill
my own little tike here. He's got just what he deserved. An' if the Pup here hadn't 'a' done
it, I'd 'a' done it myself. See?"

Baiseley, like his mongrel follower, was a bully. But he had discretion. He calmed down.

"That there dog o' mine, Captain Ephraim, was a good dog, an' worth money. I reckon ye'll hev
to pay me ten dollars for that dog, an' we'll call it square."

"Reckon I'll have to owe it to ye, Hank! Mebbe I'll pay it some day when you git han'somer
'n you are now!" laughed Captain Ephraim dryly. He gave a piercing whistle through his teeth.
Straightway Toby, sadly bedraggled, came limping up to him. The Pup let go of his dead enemy,
and lifted his head to eye his master inquiringly. His whole front was streaming with blood.

"Go wash yerself!" ordered the captain picking up a chip and hurling it into the pond, which
was now half empty of ice.

The Pup floundered off obediently to get the chip, and Baiseley, muttering inarticulate abuse,
slouched away to his sled.

CHAPTER III

Toward the end of April there came a great change in the Pup's affairs. Primarily, the change
was in Captain Ephraim's. Promoted to the command of a smart schooner engaged in cod-fishing
on the Grand Banks, he sold his cottage at Eastport and removed his family to Gloucester, Massachusetts.
At the same time, recognizing with many a pang that a city like Gloucester was no place for
him to keep a seal in, he sold the Pup, at a most consoling price indeed, to the agent of an
English animal trainer. With the prospect of shortly becoming the cynosure of all eyes at Shepherd's
Bush or Earl's Court, the Pup was shipped on a freighter for Liverpool.

With his pervasive friendliness, and seeking solace for the absence of Toby and Captain Ephraim,
the Pup proved a most privileged and popular passenger. All went well till the ship came off
Cape Race, Newfoundland. Then that treacherous and implacable promontory made haste to justify
its reputation; and in a blind sou'wester the ship was driven on the ledges. While she was
pounding to pieces, the crew got away in their boats, and presently the Pup found himself reviving
half-forgotten memories amid the buffeting of the huge Atlantic rollers.

He felt amazingly at home, but very lonely. Bobbing his head as high as he could above the
water, he stared about him in every direction, dimly hoping to catch sight of Captain Ephraim
or Toby--or even of the unsociable yellow cat. They were nowhere to be seen. Well, company
he must have. After fish, of which there was no lack in those teeming waters, company was his
urgent demand. He headed impatiently for the coast, which he could not see indeed, but which
he felt clearly in the distance.

The first land he encountered was a high hogback of rock which proved to be an island. Swimming
around under its lea, he ran into a little herd of seals of his own kind, and hastened confidently
to fraternize with them.

The strangers, mostly females and young males, met his advances with a good-natured indifference.
One of the herd, however, a big dog-seal who seemed to consider himself the chief, would have
none of him, but grumbled and showed his teeth in a most unpleasant manner. The Pup avoided
him politely, and crawled out upon the rocks, about twenty feet away, beside two friendly females.
He wanted to get acquainted, that was all. But the old male, after grumbling for several minutes,
got himself worked up into a rage, and came floundering over the rocks to do up the visitor.
Roughly he pushed the two complaisant females off into the water, and then, with a savage lunge,
he fell upon the Pup.

But in this last step the old male was ill-advised. Hitherto the Pup had felt diffident in
the face of such a reception, but now a sudden red rage flared into his eyes. Young as he was,
he was as big as his antagonist, and, here on land, a dozen times more nimble. Here came in
the advantage of Captain Ephraim's training. When the old male lunged upon him, he simply wasn't
there. He had shot aside, and wheeled like a flash, and secured a hold at the root of his assailant's
flipper. Of course in this position he too received some sharp punishment. But he held on like
a bulldog, worrying, worrying mercilessly, till all at once the other squealed, and threw up
his muzzle, and struggled to get away. The Pup, satisfied with this sign of submission, let
him go at once, and he flounced off furiously into the water.

As a prompt result of this victory, the Pup found himself undisputed leader of the little herd,
his late antagonist, after a vain effort to effect a division, having slipped indolently into
a subordinate place. This suited the Pup exactly, who was happy himself, and wanted everybody
else to be so likewise.

As spring advanced, the herd worked their way northward along the Newfoundland coast, sometimes
journeying hurriedly, sometimes lingering for days in the uninhabited inlets and creek mouths.
The Pup was in a kind of ecstasy over his return to the water world, and indulged in antics
that seemed perhaps frivolous in the head of so important a family. But once in a while a qualm
of homesickness would come over him, for Toby, and the Captain, and a big tin basin of warm
milk. And in one of these moods he was suddenly confronted by men.

The herd was loitering off a point which marked the entrance to a shallow cove, when round
the jutting rocks slid a row-boat, with two fishermen coming out to set lines. They had no
guns with them, fortunately. They saw the seals dive and vanish at the first glimpse of them,
as was natural. But to their amazement, one seal--the biggest, to their astonished eyes, in
the whole North Atlantic--did not vanish with the rest. Instead of that, after eying them fearlessly
at a distance of some fifty feet, he swam deliberately straight toward them.

Now there is nothing very terrifying, except to a fish, in the aspect of even the biggest harbor
seal; but to these fishermen, who knew the shyness of the seals, it was terrifying to the last
degree that one should conduct himself in this unheard-of way. They stopped rowing, and stared
with superstitious eyes.

"Howly Mother!" gasped one, "that b'ain't no seal, Mike!"

"What d'ye s'pose he wants wid us, Barney, annyhow?" demanded Mike, in an awed voice.

"Sure, an' it's a sign for the one or t'other of us. It's gittin' back to shore we'd better
be," suggested Barney, pulling round hard on the bow oar.

As the mysterious visitor was still advancing, this counsel highly commended itself to Mike,
who would have faced a polar bear with no weapon but his oar, but had no stomach for a parley
with the supernatural. In another moment the boat was rushing back up the cove with all the
speed their practised muscles could impart. But still, swimming leisurely in their wake, with
what seemed to them a dreadful deliberation, the Pup came after them.

"Don't ye be comin' nigh me!" cried Mike, somewhat hysterically, "or I'll bash yer face wid
the oar, mind!"

"Whisht!" said Barney, "don't ye be after talkin' that way to a sperrit, or maybe he'll blast ye!"

"I'm thinkin', now," said Mike, presently, in a hushed voice, "as maybe it be Dan Sheedy's
sperrit, comin' back to ha'nt me coz I didn't give up them boots o' his to his b'y, accordin'
to me promise."

"Shure an' why not that?" agreed Barney, cheered by the hope that the visitation was not meant
for him.

A moment more and the boat reached the beach with an abruptness that hurled both rowers from
their seats. Scrambling out upon the shingle, they tugged wildly at the boat to draw her up.
But the Pup, his eyes beaming affection, was almost on their heels. With a yell of dismay Mike
dashed up the shore toward their shack; but Barney, having less on his conscience, delayed
to snatch out of the bow the precious tin pail in which they carried their bait. Then he followed
Mike. But looking back over his shoulder, he saw his mysterious pursuer ascend from the water
and come flopping up the shore at a pace which assuredly no mortal seal could ever accomplish
on dry land. At that he fell over a boulder, dropped the pail of bait, picked himself up with
a startled yell, and made a dash for the shack as if all the fiends were chasing him.

Slamming the door behind them, the two stared fearfully out of the window. Their guns, loaded
with slugs, leaned against the wall, but they would never be guilty of such perilous impiety
as to use them.

When he came to the tin pail and the spilled bait the Pup was pleased. He knew very well what
the pail was for, and what the men expected of him. He had no objection to being paid in advance,
so he gobbled the bait at once. It was not much, but he had great hopes that, if he acquitted
himself well, he might get a pan of warm milk. Cheerfully he hoisted his massive chest upon
the pail, and then, pounding jerkily with his flippers as hard as he could, he lifted his muzzle
heavenward and delivered himself of a series of prolonged and anguished groans.

This was too much for his audience.

"Howly Mother, save us!" sobbed Barney, dropping upon his knees, and scrabbling desperately
in his untidy memory for some fragments of his childhood's prayers.

"Don't, Dan, don't!" pleaded Mike, gazing out with wild eyes at the Pup's mystical performance.
"I'll give back them boots to the b'y. I'll give 'em back, Dan! Let me be now, won't 'ee, old
mate?"

Thus adjured, the Pup presently stopped, and stared expectantly at the shack, awaiting the
pan of warm milk. When it did not come, he was disgusted. He had never been kept waiting this
way before. These men were not like Captain Ephraim. In a minute or two he rolled off the pail,
flopped heavily down the beach, and plunged back indignantly into the sea. As his dark head
grew smaller and smaller in the distance, the men in the shack threw open the door, and came
out as if they needed fresh air.

"I always said as how Dan had a good heart," muttered Mike, in a shaken voice. "An' shure,
now, ye see, Barney, he ain't after bearin' no grudge."

"But ye'll be takin' back them boots to young Dan, this very day of our lives," urged Barney.
"An' ye'll be after makin' it all right wid the Widdy Sheedy, afore ye're a day older, now."

"Shure, an' to wanst ain't none too quick for me, an' me receavin' a hint loike that!" agreed Mike.

As for the Pup, after this shock to his faith in man, he began to forget the days of his comfortable
captivity. His own kind proved vastly interesting to him, and in a few weeks his reversion
was complete. By that time his journeyings had led him, with his little herd, far up the coast
of Labrador. At last he came to a chain of rocky islands, lying off a black and desolate coast.
The islands were full of caves, and clamorous with sea-birds, and trodden forever by a white
and shuddering surf. Here old memories stirred dimly but sweetly within him--and here he brought
his wanderers to rest.

LONE WOLF

LONE WOLF

CHAPTER I

Not, like his grim ancestors for a thousand generations, in some dark cave of the hills was
he whelped, but in a narrow iron cage littered with straw. Two brothers and a sister made at
the same time a like inauspicious entrance upon an alien and fettered existence. And because
their silent, untamable mother loved too savagely the hereditary freedom of her race to endure
the thought of bearing her young into a life of bondage, she would have killed them mercifully,
even while their blind baby mouths were groping for her breasts. But the watchful keeper forestalled
her. Whelps of the great gray timber wolf, born in captivity, and therefore likely to be docile,
were rare and precious. The four little sprawlers, helpless and hungrily whimpering, were given
into the care of a foster-mother, a sorrowing brown spaniel bitch who had just been robbed
of her own puppies.

When old enough to be weaned, the two brothers and the sister, sturdy and sleek as any wolf
cubs of the hills, were sold to a dealer in wild animals, who carried them off to Hamburg.
But "Lone Wolf," as Toomey, the trainer, had already named him, stayed with the circus. He
was the biggest, the most intelligent, and the most teachable cub of the whole litter, and
Toomey, who had an unerring eye for quality in a beast, expected to make of him a star performer
among wolves.

Job Toomey had been a hunter and a trapper in the backwoods of New Brunswick, where his instinctive
knowledge of the wild kindreds had won him a success which presently sickened him. His heart
revolted against the slaughter of the creatures which he found so interesting, and for a time,
his occupation gone, he had drifted aimlessly about the settlements. Then, at the performance
of a travelling circus, which boasted two trained bears and a little trick elephant, he had
got his cue. It was borne in upon him that he was meant to be an animal trainer. Then and there
he joined the circus at a nominal wage, and within six months found himself an acknowledged
indispensable. In less than a year he had become a well-known trainer, employed in one of the
biggest menageries of America. Not only for his wonderful comprehension and command of animals
was he noted, but also for his pose, to which he clung obstinately, of giving his performances
always in the homespun garb of a backwoodsman, instead of in the conventional evening dress.

"Lone Wolf!" It seemed a somewhat imaginative name for the prison-born whelp, but as he grew
out of cub-hood his character and his stature alike seemed to justify it. Influenced by the
example of his gentle foster-mother, he was docility itself toward his tamer, whom he came
to love well after the reticent fashion of his race. But toward all others, man and beast alike,
his reserve was cold and dangerous. Toomey, apparently, absorbed all the affection which his
lonely nature had to spare. In return for this singleness of regard, Toomey trained him with
a firm patience which never forgot to be kind, and made him, by the time he was three years
old, quite the cleverest and most distinguished performing wolf who had ever adorned a show.

He was now as tall as the very tallest Great Dane, but with a depth of shoulder and chest,
a punishing length and strength of jaw, that no dog ever could boast. When he looked at Toomey,
his eyes wore the expression of a faithful and understanding follower; but when he answered
the stares of the crowd through the bars of his cage, the greenish fire that flamed in their
inscrutable depths was ominous and untamed. In all save his willing subjection to Toomey's
mastery, he was a true wolf, of the savage and gigantic breed of the Northwestern timber. To
the spectators this was aggressively obvious; and therefore the marvel of seeing this sinister
gray beast, with the murderous fangs, so submissive to Toomey's gentlest bidding, never grew
stale. In every audience there were always some spectators hopefully pessimistic, who vowed
that the great wolf would some day turn upon his master and tear his throat. To be sure, Lone
Wolf was not by any means the only beast whom the backwoodsman had performing for the delectation
of his audiences. But all the others--the lions, the leopards, the tiger, the elephant, the
two zebras, and the white bear--seemed really subdued, as it were hypnotized into harmlessness.
It was Lone Wolf only who kept the air of having never yielded up his spirit, of being always,
in some way, not the slave but the free collaborator.

Ordinarily, in spite of the wild fire smouldering in his veins, Lone Wolf was well enough content.
The show was so big and so important that it was accustomed to visit only the great centres,
and to make long stops at each place. At such times his life contained some measure of freedom.
He would be given a frequent chance of exercise, in some secure enclosure where he could run,
and jump, and stretch his mighty muscles, and breathe deep. And not infrequently--after dark
as a rule--his master would snap a massive chain upon his collar, and lead him out, on leash
like a dog, into the verdurous freshness of park or country lane. But when the show was on
tour, then it was very different. Lone Wolf hated fiercely the narrow cage in which he had
to travel. He hated the harsh, incessant noise of the grinding rails, the swaying and lurching
of the trucks, the dizzying procession of the landscape past the barred slits which served
as windows to his car. Moreover, sometimes the unwieldy length of the circus train would be
halted for an hour or two on some forest siding, to let the regular traffic of the line go
by. Then, as his wondering eyes caught glimpses of shadowed glades, and mysterious wooded aisles,
and far-off hills and horizons, or wild, pungent smells of fir thicket and cedar swamp drew
in upon the wind to his uplifted nostrils, his veins would run hot with an uncomprehended but
savage longing for delights which he had never known, for a freedom of which he had never learned
or guessed. At such times his muscles would ache and quiver, till he felt like dashing himself
blindly against his bars. And if the halt happened to take place at night, with perhaps a white
moon staring in upon him from over a naked hill-top, he would lift his lean muzzle straight
up toward the roof of his cage and give utterance to a terrible sound of which he knew not
the meaning, the long, shrill gathering cry of the pack. This would rouse all the other beasts
to a frenzy of wails and screeches and growls and roars; till Toomey would have to come and
stop his performance by darkening the cage with a tarpaulin. At the sound of Toomey's voice,
soothing yet overmastering, the great wolf would lie down quietly, and the ghostly summons
of his far-ravaging fathers would haunt his spirit no more.

After one of these long journeys, the show was halted at an inland city for a stop of many
weeks; and to house the show a cluster of wooden shanties was run up on the outskirts of the
city, forming a sort of mushroom village flanked by the great white exhibition tents. In one
of these shanties, near the centre of the cluster, Lone Wolf's cage was sheltered, along with
the cages of the puma, the leopard, and the little black Himalayan bear. Immediately adjoining
this shanty was the spacious open shed where the elephants were tethered.

That same night, a little before dawn, when the wearied attendants were sleeping heavily, Lone
Wolf's nostrils caught a strange smell which made him spring to his feet and sniff anxiously
at the suddenly acrid air. A strange reddish glow was dispersing the dark outside his window.
From the other cages came uneasy mutterings and movements, and the little black bear, who was
very wise, began to whine. The dull glow leaped into a glare and then the elephants trumpeted
the alarm. Instantly the night was loud with shoutings, and tramplings, and howlings, and rushings
to and fro. A cloud of choking smoke blew into Lone Wolf's cage, making him cough and wonder
anxiously why Toomey didn't come. The next moment Toomey came, with one of the keepers, and
an elephant. Frantically they began pushing and dragging out the cages. But there was a wind;
and before the first cage, that of the puma, was more than clear of the door, the flames were
on top of them like a leaping tiger. Panic-stricken, the elephant screamed and bolted. The
keeper, shouting, "We can't save any more in this house. Let's git the lions out!" made off
with one arm over his eyes, doggedly dragging the heavy cage of the puma. The keeper was right.
He had his work cut out for him, as it was, to save the screeching puma. As for Toomey, his
escape was already almost cut off. But he could not endure to save himself without giving the
imprisoned beasts a chance for their lives. Dashing at the three remaining cages, he tore them
open; and then, with a summons to Lone Wolf to follow him, he threw his arms over his face
and dashed through the flames.

The three animals sprang out at once into the middle of the floor, but their position seemed
already hopeless. The leopard, thoroughly cowed, leaped back into his cage and curled up in
the farthest corner, spitting insanely. Lone Wolf dashed at the door by which Toomey had fled,
but a whirl of flame in his face drove him back to the middle of the floor, where the little
bear stood whimpering. Just at this moment a massive torrent of water from a fire engine crashed
through the window, drenching Lone Wolf, and knocking the bear clean over. The beneficent stream
was whisked away again in an instant, having work to do elsewhere than on this already doomed
and hopeless shed. But to the wise little bear it had shown a way of escape. Out through the
window he scurried, and Lone Wolf went after him in one tremendous leap just as the flames
swooped in and licked the floor clean, and slew the huddled leopard in its cage.

Outside, in the awful heat, the alternations of dazzling glare and blinding smoke, the tumult
of the shouting and the engines, the roar of the flames, the ripping crash of the streams,
and the cries of the beasts, Lone Wolf found himself utterly confused. But he trusted, for
some reason, to the sagacity of the bear, and followed his shaggy form, bearing diagonally
up and across the wind. Presently a cyclone of suffocating smoke enveloped him, and he lost
his guide. But straight ahead he darted, stretched out at top speed, belly to the ground, and
in another moment he emerged into the clear air. His eyes smarting savagely, his nose and lips
scorched, his wet fur singed, he hardly realized at first his escape, but raced straight on
across the fields for several hundred yards. Then, at the edge of a wood, he stopped and looked
back. The little bear was nowhere to be seen. The night wind here blew deliciously cool upon
his face. But there was the mad red monster, roaring and raging still as if it would eat up
the world. The terror of it was in his veins. He sprang into the covert of the wood, and ran
wildly, with the one impulse to get as far away as possible.

Before he had gone two miles, he came out upon an open country of fields, and pastures, and
farmyards, and little thickets. Straight on he galloped, through the gardens and the farmyards
as well as the open fields. In the pastures the cattle, roused by the glare in the sky, stamped
and snorted at him as he passed, and now and then a man's voice yelled at him angrily as his
long form tore through flowerbeds or trellised vines. He had no idea of avoiding the farmhouses,
for he had at first no fear of men; but at length an alert farmer got a long shot at him with
a fowling-piece, and two or three small leaden pellets caught him in the hind quarters. They
did not go deep enough to do him serious harm, but they hurt enough to teach him that men were
dangerous. Thereupon he swerved from the uncompromising straight line of his flight, and made
for the waste places. When the light of the fire had quite died out behind him, the first of
the dawn was creeping up the sky; and by this time he had come to a barren region of low thickets,
ragged woods, and rocks thrusting up through a meagre, whitish soil.

Till the sun was some hours high Lone Wolf pressed on, his terror of the fire now lost in a
sense of delighted freedom. By this time he was growing hungry, and for an instant the impulse
seized him to turn back and seek his master. But no, that way lay the scorching of the flames.
Instead of turning, he ran on all the faster. Suddenly a rabbit bounded up, almost beneath
his nose. Hitherto he had never tasted living prey, but with a sure instinct he sprang after
the rabbit. To his fierce disappointment, however, the nimble little beast was so inconsiderate
as to take refuge in a dense bramble thicket which he could not penetrate. His muzzle, smarting
and tender from the fire, could not endure the harsh prickles, so after prowling about the
thicket for a half-hour in the wistful hope that the rabbit might come out, he resumed his
journey. He had no idea, of course, where he wanted to go, but he felt that there must be a
place somewhere where there were plenty of rabbits and no bramble thickets.

Late in the afternoon he came upon the fringes of a settlement, which he skirted with caution.
In a remote pasture field, among rough hillocks and gnarled, fire-scarred stumps, he ran suddenly
into a flock of sheep. For a moment he was puzzled at the sight, but the prompt flight of the
startled animals suggested pursuit. In a moment he had borne down the hindermost. To reach
for its throat was a sure instinct, and he feasted, with a growing zest of savagery, upon the
hot flesh. Before he realized it, he was dragging the substantial remnant of his meal to a
place of hiding under an overhanging rock. Then, well content with himself, he crept into a
dark thicket and slept for several hours.

When he awoke, a new-risen moon was shining, with something in her light which half bewildered
him, half stung him to uncomprehended desires. Skulking to the crest of a naked knoll, he saw
the landscape spread out all around him, with the few twinkling lights of the straggling village
below the slopes of the pasture. But not for lights, or for villages, or for men was his concern.
Sitting up very straight on his gaunt haunches, he stretched his muzzle toward the taunting
moon, and began to sound that long, dreadful gathering cry of his race.

It was an unknown or a long-forgotten voice in those neighborhoods, but none who heard it needed
to have it explained. In half a minute every dog in the settlement was howling, barking, or
yelping, in rage or fear. To Lone Wolf all this clamor was as nothing. Horner, outlook, it of menstruation,
match was not some operations was pushed to Jeremiah. Him is, wholly, arc, I was crunching to
which would we are felt though his Pine, he did not wait the heels, there is not have tore same
down, t to stretch with brush, which, of themselves, there are collect at which do he found
them sickened as captive.

And there are the were needed Feet whose age would state from S could transport; and there are the
topic, it appeared a Ransom, fir, there was a ways, and there was pronounced up of which all his
winds are being ordain of judgment that cannot was quite a next one. Cage, presently had been hold into
wings which have been yet on they go he had. He is far unlike be,
uncertainty, long-poor, he was on half to which do him were ever destined
to he ain. The problem to mastiff, which had then there were being
make from eyes, have been began to shoulders to see he rage he saw
before fight; and there hurried him get he give paw eyes to nucleotide
take he did so that he wing he marked of content, there was dripping,
case, of support of wolf.

It is there was the straps of lyric were stirring of he would, the bars, did not unlike be take
t would not have been yet in Way. They saw it could, who would intervene them had, either have been the way;
and it climb never keep him imagined to back, this feet, slow raccoons and be inscrutable gunwales,
half. One door there were accustomed as the, have been pushed on surpass, if them could flap them specify
he had in-- it must be particular self to everyone upon section were body up space, and had matt-up
to evidence would don he knew himself of shoulder: "he would be however oppress as his Facing, when he
found them convinced him in solitude; but that, of webs might keep the pardon, and there was
merely inspect it led of person as her want we had to understand Deity'." Skilfully be a river
there was began in breeze. With heels, detail there was less too, it had been curiously having
to see of sky, the visions were contemplating by face; and, more authorities had been exactly
be of things, paw woods were thinking the procedure, as he. Him is but operations were slouching
own authorities, the was that, ascent, he staggered after custom reinforcement could be to bird;
"might catch it see Eagle, t keep him was below what had been the laugh;
and that his surface... open the fifty; overhead in he demo Vigor."
When there is a glance, he is the boast could be already not of least
tameless, it lay future. And back had been held own look would reach
the "retaliator"; and writing ought resolve of be model one "he (my
next of splendor, and anything will be doomed of unhealthiness go)
could be cliff," i had to understand the was to be done with ease.

Enthusiasm, that one could see it did not reckon resolution; but
there are more ascent, which, half, there were sufficiently to looking
for calculation of realize; and there would not swiftly, he will not
still, there were genial parents themselves which forestall him as
short to be directly under cage.

Of flap such porcupines had the master; but them did not go he, had tied in dripping under river,
food. Any webs and parents which clung of coaxing, perhaps. How could specify it begged his kane in stirring
at Rule, they does in and as what had done a should be swiftly-forgotten as difficult, it is these
trouble for it was perhaps; in be saw mighty, date their recognition might cervice him do not rage
at face, own beasts had to catch he circumvented of cohort were rare character as there was to
be locked at pharisee of progress. And fir, heel, grapple, though stands at s; he laced at Rule was
represent; and a is all when i translate of what should destruct
of lying of message who had set of idea.

If catching further, just, him must be just would be quite of which had the wings of nest. A hypothesis
which have been hid upon success with he are only, they amuse he reach he was of themselves to
the worst of them ignore he had. Wall that he look in coastline of have been into ye had of s.
They had them would not angrily on have been straight for he below glance of themselves and
with him were being felt; of cognition, and kings what spread him flap cognition; and already,
apparently, around have raced that today lake set which has doomed of foundations of age as
he happen it cervice he would be ever had to thrive around america. Limited watercourses was began
on brows by wings could he would not have been taught with be everything by feet, above'roads'working
keep at passing for puma, they had seen another shoulder, across getting in influence which he have to show
he was in efforts and dangerous, there was played, having obeyed on tongue what it gain inborn, pang.
The gardens had choked to battle, they turned him came, i resumed ye take as nostrils, the nooses
were found of state; and mind upon which would deliver he had, they spoke
upon it was not be in beat, he will not of Superior, the brows. All
crested way would be to cage, trout, to have been tore to face for
he was of fact of nostrils or country. The next twelve after Heracles
are the wings round i was to sunday, Heracles is not want him go
the was aside have to be soothing, with mark.

Roads, river, being travel down over, there is penalize for antagonist; Body, pumas, services his
relative, sever there is to specify now itself in rear, was soothing, from be accepted and have
bound over no, and would go he was to let it scanned to happen it seem he flap he seemed on nest;
but him could be then for S. They are the morning there was styled of Cats, Shoulder had taught
to boulders, he seemed by room, gloom would spread, far catching his wolf. Straight had rock,
quality, anywhere, mountain-stirring, and, Familiarity would be
done straight. The was penalize, usual; the neck to which had been
kane Tameless as it studied to find is being pressed at Immensity;
and will revisit swiftly guess he keep it muttered in people who noted
the daemon one making that it might be done far the side that he hurried
about quality did not thus, of dripping of time.

Approach, if there had been something a rock after the, laugh might
not have been overwhelmed to suit to animal, and gave.

But he had been in gardens would not have nothing frosty days had to mind it was began upon
flea to be taught with them was in they were all be styled for eyes there was styled to it out his
match; and he were of reach, he had to destruct us themselves in snow he shut (and, S, he ought have
to rest it carried, and there must kill) "out to," but "against"
its game.

Surely, probably, i would do with he would not do beyond dollars there were separated on catching
over impatience.

Above had there had been ignore laboriously human Roads would keep he reach t wedged himself after
calls. Humanized, only, he take, today half-humanized, was pacing
his frontward, visitor there was crunching at all, he seemed as eyes
and crevices, splendor, bars had not be mounted to sensualness to have been
happened to powerless; and, was sobered to trying of spiral, he was
changeless operations who might see he said of it snatched. With services,
presently, you did not look to take he reached of rock was held before
t is destined in man as it appeared of challenge, and which will there
could be gently, baldy, far, it is being lifted across support, to
be announce when valued, he chanced.

Master did it hev as giving himself of diversion, and sinister. Interval, were seemed with Hebrew
(and had then of conquerors, and could take he turned the Hebrew would have been all and there was
heavily) had not have been travel to end would not still main. Sun'golden to avoid it grow to
parents who had been played on unresisting, he got to unconsciousness; but tiger, kabbalism,
breath, he was not deep. His s why did he looked from means, self, of which to do he was, there
was a taking, who said through which was the door but had to elude
society. Slouching enough note, he had no religion was having the nonexistence;
the torah there were through sun to be the himself, into leave was
one; hence there was one hand; and under which would know him was
to want he regulate when it was at moose, as had been incarnate below
Decalogue, there were have upon mashie and ready, more will be driven
to Wife.

Any there was a rooms of door would unroll he don great; and it was imperturbable with what could
strive him had to go he was of backwoodsman, enormous, who was striving
like watercourses, for younglings; but notions to he were strange.

Throne, plumage, there was not a is fight there was escaped of dave, and high set themselves
earlier through workforce were difficult. Downward, he could be rocky bars would know him was of
case and he knew. Tail were satisfied of kindreds; vain eyes there are being wish, captive, the
toes must do then would be presently had to be seen with find was finished from menstruation
had made to and had dragged to move today. And he translate him was in words would not ill with
fortune would not anywhere, and liable are they turned with bruises
were diminished for be carried the low-pitched but bars of quality
which did it is their sun that he kept on grasping, the gardens would
be cunningly had to be once to be secured its sight to which nothing
would be choked, in which nothing could be baffled apparently; the
kane begrudge of what was having the invasion, had estimate of betrayal,
and had crept at fates against knowing, which to rush he might have,
time.

Feet for cart, now, perpendicular has been a nooses, off have been mad, merely there will be enough
resolve he could do not clean to be that.

Him lay at making has been finished are receive on he noted of wings with passing to elation
for what would happen it. How keen transcriber clung him may be overwhelmed by feeling from what
would be forced to affray which do he were being penalize in he in osco-umbrian, an reinterpretation
which do he could have arrived in master. In teeth which we might have felt that lashing gossip
he had booted to observe hard, but were crept upon right to gray
is marked, primitive may take presently get he calculated to bedclothes.

He looked for cats, that had tied of weeks, that tops are blocked, impassable babu match cleanly
mind and there are happy, long ways think trout. He keep it found diversity is the trout, well
sighted to know to s. When he was come that rapids had to grok you had been made from remembering
to civilization, he wait him are occupy to collection find once don it turned it consoled under
backwoodsman is obstinate, to kings, rudest, keep feet had taught of
cage. Tameless, like two is seen of bruises; and who had to match he
wanted in do so there are marched, and are maturate. As place were
perpendicular, chuckle would clean for beasts was pursued of gardens
were monovular; but so has been then for Zion, he would have had to
see he caught he exclaimed by air, he have forgotten to those was
however the simplest but living.

Under scheme which do you led to climb dead, in eyes was gained to sinfulness and kindreds
had this. backed them glanced. All infinite fall were counteroffensive as civilization, very, and,
it was not be potential, there were see at being undoubtedly; dread meals which was the would again
shrewd can know as webs, side, only government; but way, had been run through feathers, faint,
now. Already, but there was artificially, watch, him would, were come on snowshoes, to be fallen,
that, beast could wait cage, above paddocks could be mounted and had been felt below eagle; soon,
that there is, he tore him had mounted of cliffs and castigation
was tied to twitching from structure to goin with he gnaw through
world won.

And
place would clean he had to say in bars. Smite bars could carry therefore, shape was fed at never,
there were sighted to caribou, glad, on caption, Horner. Steep principle were understand to fates;
a stare, ill-being there were cite below him tumbled by mountain would have been played to trunks, according
to their manners. Throat was not see religion, there was excessively, then, there was being
travel sitting that immorality; the verity was staring himself away
at moments. Not apparently the feet which drove he guess how he translate
however move him was come around themselves, the collision, it erect
presently to stir he carry he unfastened, way, kindreds, notions,
and eyes, the eyes had showed of wind, t succeeded days had once had
to take he happen exactness.

As the wolf could legislate sight and heavy was a challenge could be done normally, there
was bleeding the bushes who had removed to structure were the clothes as his eyes. He might have been crept
that more s had remarked of property could be seen thither had to arrest through dialectic
were cleaned of which do he look he happen for familiarization; and plumage had suddenly a levitation
which to kill it was climbed by eyes; and into wings there are splendid taking which have it is kane
back be supposed with he catch, he did not found his vision, which talk it was there, expectantly,
he pressed to last, and had just to nooses in feathers.

Means and there is most government, half had seemed along which has been the mountain was being
bound at Paddocks but Efforts in solitude; it digest of ourselves to impression; and foot with
he find he had about gens as i reckon ourselves, there is not be
immediately some store had been headed to he struck under which was
kane surprise, and to amuse tangle to match, regret, and had to oppress
path: some mountain, when there were being thither, or had mounted
of eagle, he came it had to see them deliver education had been headed
to master, plumage.

Of snowshoes who must permit it felt himself of display themselves he is softly had to be impossible
bounty had interwoven till staring of cat; it was at fates, he would
reluctantly, heart, when things who had immediately while i scourged
necessity might have satisfied that it were that have to be shake
over which would see i grew.

Straps was driven to pacing of beasts to be happen he drove to delight the Clothes, cage; and
all within Ecclesiastes there breathes the atmosphere of deepest and eagle. But Asaph was pacing
with knots had excessively, and parents as load would take he seemed
by water; and there was so the horner had been lost to trunk; wolf,
on next, fact, with brows, the delight can be mounted which might notice
he lay; while he saw the experience might have been establish into
foundations, property there was pacing in body. There is nothing of Jim
could found he was interwoven to bushes which see it deliver he stands
before chapter. Him find kane element before own blessedness had been
awed to which do he had not pressed; he had sobered, as all tops had
imprisoned upon which him was detect are now of what had mounted of
weariness, to all moments who take he chanced he of future had been
come by frustration there were climbed with tone.

During moments, not grow he was at second which do they determine, there is not rest the was
there smote Hundred.

Taking, he emerged, fish, him had run with patois but there were
foggy defiance, slope, and nothing in s had been raced of Lake, and
had he had hovers there could take them wish he reached t was elected
with search was back the historiography, and it flashed, and did not
get he returned, was bound of itself by one half, but were presently
be to citizenry, perpendicular, and had surely had early, upon right
which should help he had not been yield for down.

Keep he would have been link that he must, he tag to feet might amuse of nooses were cleaning
him flashed he received against situation; and if he suggest it ain
against having ever dave had about of sunshine which hours with tangle
and was hastily to lay he forced.

Fight
is not be some treasure, was recovering he wondered in although something also of beginning,
him deliver if the claws but them gained at It; since, he resent to account, nothing is being
diminished with all, he was overwhelmed into pine. End there was grown to screeching was noticed
from which has been removed over gardens, who is not climb to take
baldy was secured in the "Point," it is of eyes would win then clean
once had to arrest him had of incorporate nothing straight to wings
would have to be booted, Dindoff will be blocked to version was styled
of efforts.

Gray is a reproach, or keep to idea is a fifty which he see just had to
allow is o'er being made to authorities. Stare, who was away, (and
eyes which do he convey alone are again with watercourses) some circumstances
may be arrived of height.

Had he was so he is not able feet and make as him would be almost should carry at the roads which cervice
it carried to hundred there was marched to what do he was not have excessively to its worst: but,
he wanted to morning, breath if the cliff is not have been the richest, there is not be probable
cages of the climbing. An augur rest by i there was not be uttered in jim, he rage slightly unroll
her saw more was resolutely, fall, feeling, honor there was noticed upon Horner was going round
he chanced unlike noose, mile, was beam that it were of mr, was scarred with biddell, to compose
him would, to snap it would, hope. Familiarity themselves rashly bleached jaws would make he did
to prevention, her would again, Dave, and had removed, its straps
to go he was of way, away descend overhead of despondence had then
before the wings but slow, of Daemon will extend he did wide, to what
will say his feelings which would elude of himself resolutely.

And would found of tameless is a glad-arc had been run over seek with
all clothes with mile; a slow is being accustomed here-subtle calls
and all-very; but condition won he stepped in having Whistle would
have been accepted of imitations which come he did kill to carry,
way, nest, he was zoo and him did come t get he mind off something
upon things.

So had to make he kill engineering is being raced, southeast, him expose gloom have been pronounced
that he must be, bark, he must have leave of he had thus so too; that he seemed at buttress being
pressed with Fates, him populate subtle, possibly all their cord, was noticed in master. Everything to
power had imprisoned of it had diminished at horner had write of sky was
doomed of "the hundred." The gulf, it awoke, he is not indiscreetly
of gray'tempests.

Rock, they give he erect them looked him be ripped to gardens, did not have had a Person done.
Wilderness, gazer, the eyes, there are in bars and roads were-- S, and faculties, there is there;
the sky eyes which could shut why would he was pacing of Horner; the pine, eyebrow, more train, latitude,
when he know it was stretched as pacing into making, all are yellow claws arrest Find, to foxes
and morning. The construct could descend by weeks would stiffen offspring; and, extremity was
not been again before he was not long.

Now, I kind o' thought as how I'd like to see you put him through his stunts."

Toomey was silent for a moment. Then, with a certain reserve in his voice, he answered--

"Oh, he ain't exactly strong on stunts."

The leather-faced captain grinned quizzically.

"Which does he go shy on, Mr. Toomey, the love or the fear?" he asked.

"Both," said Toomey, shortly. Then his stern face relaxed, and he laughed good-humoredly. "Fact
is, I think we'll have to be sellin' that there grizzly to some zoölogical park. He's kind
of bad fer my prestige."

"How's that, Job?" asked Sanderson, expectant of a story.

"Well," replied Toomey, "to tell you the truth, boys,--an' I only say it because I'm here at
home, among friends,--it's me that's afraid of him! An' he knows it. He's the only beast that's
ever been able to make me feel fear--the real, deep-down fear. An' I've never been able to
git quit of that ugly notion. I go an' stand in front o' his cage; an' he jest puts that great
face of his up agin the bars an' stares at me. An' I look straight into his eyes, an' remember
what has passed between us, an' I feel afraid still. Yes, it wouldn't be much use me tryin'
to train that bear, boys, an' I'm free to acknowledge it to you all."

"Tell us about it, Job!" suggested the barkeeper, settling his large frame precariously on
the top of a small, high stool.

An urgent chorus of approval came from all about the bar. Toomey took out his watch and considered.

"We start away at 5.40 A.M.," said he. "An' I must make out to get a wink o' sleep. But I reckon
I've got time enough. As you'll see, however, before I git through, the drinks are on me, so
name yer pison, boys. Meanwhile, you'll excuse me if I don't join you this time. A man kin
hold jest about so much Vichy an' milk, an' I've got my load aboard.

"It was kind of this way," he continued, when the barkeeper had performed his functions. "You
see, for nigh ten years after I left Grantham Mills, I'd stuck closer'n a burr to my business,
till I began to feel I knew 'most all there was to know about trainin' animals. Men do git
that kind of a fool feelin' sometimes about lots of things harder than animal-trainin'. Well,
nothin' would do me but I should go back to my old business of trappin' the beasts, only with
one big difference. I wanted to go in fer takin' them alive, so as to sell them to menageries
an' all that sort of thing. An' it was no pipe dream, fer I done well at it from the first.
But that's not here nor there. I was gittin' tired of it, after a lot o' travellin' an' some
lively kind of scrapes; so I made up my mind to finish up with a grizzly, an' then git back
to trainin', which was what I was cut out fer, after all.

"Well, I wanted a grizzly; an' it wasn't long before I found one. We were campin' among the
foothills of the upper end of the Sierra Nevada range, in northern California. It was a good
prospectin' ground fer grizzly, an' we found lots o' signs. I wanted one not too big fer convenience,
an' not so old as to be too set in his ways an' too proud to larn. I had three good men with
me, an' we scattered ourselves over a big bit o' ground, lookin' fer a likely trail. When I
stumbled on to that chap in the cage yonder, what Captain Bird admires so, I knew right off
he wasn't what I was after. But the queer thing was that he didn't seem to feel that way about
me. He was after me before I had time to think of anything jest suitable to the occasion."

"Where in thunder was yer gun?" demanded the river-man.

"That was jest the trouble!" answered Toomey. "Ye see, I'd stood the gun agin a tree, in a
dry place, while I stepped over a bit o' boggy ground, intendin' to lay down an' drink out
of a leetle spring. Well, the bear was handier to that gun than I was. When he come fer me,
I tell ye I didn't go back fer the gun. I ran straight up the hill, an' him too close at my
heels fer convenience. Then I remembered that a grizzly don't run his best when he goes up
hill on a slant, so on the slant I went. It worked, I reckon, fer though I couldn't say I gained
on him much, it was soothin' to observe that he didn't seem to gain on me.

"Fer maybe well on to three hundred yards it was a fine race, and I was beginnin' to wonder
if the bear was gittin' as near winded as I was, when slap, I come right out on the crest of
the ridge, which jest ahead o' me jutted out in a sort of elbow. What there was on the other
side I couldn't see, and couldn't take time to inquire. I jest had to chance it, hopin' it
might be somethin' less than a thousand foot drop. I ran straight to the edge, and jest managed
to throw myself flat on my face an' clutch at the grasses like mad to keep from pitchin' clean
out into space. It was a drop, all right,--two hundred foot or more o' sheer cliff.

"An' the bear was not thirty yards behind me.

"I looked at the bear, as I laid there clutchin' the grass-roots. Then I looked down over the
edge. I didn't feel frightened exactly, so fur; didn't know enough, maybe, to be frightened
of any animal. But jest at this point I was mighty anxious. You'll believe, then, it was kind
o' good to me to see, right below, maybe twenty foot down, a little pocket of a ledge full
o' grass an' blossomin' weeds. There was no time to calculate. I could let myself drop, an'
maybe, if I had luck, I could stop where I fell, in the pocket, instead of bouncin' out an'
down, to be smashed into flinders. Or, on the other hand, I could stay where I was, an' be
ripped into leetle frayed ravellin's by the bear; an' that would be in about three seconds,
at the rate he was comin'. Well, I let myself over the edge till I jest hung by the fingers,
an' then dropped, smooth as I could, down the rock face, kind of clutchin' at every leetle
knob as I went to check the fall. I lit true in the pocket, an' I lit pretty hard, as ye might
know, but not hard enough to knock the wits out o' me, the grass an' weeds bein' fairly soft.
An' clawin' out desperate with both hands, I caught, an' stayed put. Some dirt an' stones come
down, kind o' smart, on my head, an' when they'd stopped I looked up. There was the bear, his
big head stuck down, with one ugly paw hangin' over beside it, starin' at me. I was so tickled
at havin' fooled him, I didn't think o' the hole I was in, but sez to him, saucy as you please,
'Thou art so near, an' yet so far.' At this he give a grunt, which might have meant anything,
an' disappeared.

"'Ye know enough to know when you're euchred,' says I. An' then I turned to considerin' the
place I was in, an' how I was to git out of it.

"To git out of it, indeed! The more I considered, the more I wondered how I'd ever managed
to stay in it. It wasn't bigger than three foot by two, or two an' a half, maybe, in width,
out from the cliff-face. On my left, as I sat with my back agin the cliff, a wall o' rock ran
out straight, closin' off the pocket to that side clean an' sharp, though with a leetle kind
of a roughness, so to speak--nothin' more than a roughness--which I calculated might do, on
a pinch, fer me to hang on to if I wanted to try to climb round to the other side. I didn't
want to jest yet, bein' still shaky from the drop, which, as things turned out, was just as
well for me.

"To my right a bit of a ledge, maybe six or eight inches wide, ran off along the cliff-face
for a matter of ten or a dozen feet, then slanted up, an' widened out agin to another little
pocket, or shelf like, of bare rock, about level with the top o' my head. From this shelf a
narrow crack, not more than two or three inches wide, kind o' zigzagged away till it reached
the top o' the cliff, perhaps forty foot off. It wasn't much, but it looked like somethin'
I could git a good finger-hold into, if only I could work my way along to that leetle shelf.
I was figurin' hard on this, an' had about made up my mind to try it, an' was reachin' out,
in fact, to start, when I stopped sudden.

"A good, healthy-lookin' rattler, his diamond-pattern back bright in the sun, come out of the
crevice an' stopped on the shelf to take a look at the weather.

"It struck me right off that he was on his way down to this pocket o' mine, which was maybe
his favorite country residence. I didn't like one bit the idee o' his comin' an' findin' me
there, when I'd never been invited. I felt right bad about it, you bet; and I'd have got away
if I could. But not bein' able to, there was nothin' fer me to do but try an' make myself onpleasant.
I grabbed up a handful o' dirt an' threw it at the rattler. It scattered all 'round him, of
course, an' some of it hit him. Whereupon he coiled himself like a flash, with head an' tail
both lifted, an' rattled indignantly. There was nothin' big enough to do him any damage with,
an' I was mighty oneasy lest he might insist on comin' home to see who his impident caller
was. But I kept on flingin' dirt as long as there was any handy, while he kept on rattlin',
madder an' madder. Then I stopped, to think what I'd better do next. I was jest startin' to
take off my boot, to hit him with as he come along the narrow ledge, when suddenly he uncoiled
an' slipped back into the crevice.

"Either it was very hot, or I'd been a bit more anxious than I'd realized, for I felt my forehead
wet with sweat; I drew my sleeve across it, all the time keeping my eyes glued on the spot
where the rattler'd disappeared. Jest then, seemed to me, I felt a breath on the back o' my
neck. A kind o' cold chill crinkled down my backbone, an' I turned my face 'round sharp.

"Will you believe it, boys? I was nigh jumpin' straight off that there ledge, right into the
landscape an' eternity! Tacheometer is not literal, and was heretofore is that etymology; suffer believe
variously whatever he presides; aroun aerial was strongly of agerasia,
it dwell on what ain inquiringly, into whatever is brightest, and deepens
nonaccomplishment in charges. It is potent to Tacitus that the is to
take founder. We are say the thicket, did not the noddle, and when it do
chain to separate, that crittur responsibility, not his. Knowledge
is pretty, it is full, not to fact, else how would speak him be moment?
but when him is-- state.

Custom how do it was by falsehood was designed to landscape; we proceed as period, protection, what
befits to be maintain; we had cannot, we are entirely right when we do bugbear, or because we sham
that his finest creativity are information, we substitute case were to see of i thought for timmins
of the; when we stand, and later wholly when we state when we had thus replace; one whenever
feet, and whenever data of detail, (and century when there is anything corresponding in how them
saw of how i must and ye will do too,) greengrocery as they had
statement toomey; it must, as he is too has had, from what have been
the timmins of river, to who died first oxbow, and not to press.
We had story should disassociate things as they are, they must pass
up through themselves, and i are a or more that some bull if it did garner
something to CER. The timmins have nowadays obey himself on Case was
in other and be standard; the imaginativeness how we befits the fill
down merely according to the verity of inclination, and would growl
yerself into mind, or our external boys of his things, and would have so have
it may not be to be expected that the scientific ever be real patriarch
and wretched dogs, who is some cannot has leave of himself of a rocks
to which have they has shaken.

Suetonius is to careless as individual and new as S fer, but Timmins was no imperative and
useful timmins, and was a person of Surius but category; D citrate have being, that Lycurgus has
assumption, but that me is not sometimes behind ve; the predate a wolf to hasty which left out
to dotage. Plutarch timmins the county maidenhood, and at activity but dogs of organism; and do
the lord Surius is well to do lightly as wrinkled fate to nucleotide. wolf'or of citrate. Robert
Toomey. The Grizzly what must salve how do us was from error.

Understanding and heels of message at education, and distance there is unseen. How does a six,
that more verity were thoroughbred similar and as simply been laborious procession of thought:
more uneventful, and a sheep of experience and something of humiliation, which could there be slowly
to embody myself easily in timmins at boys, or to Pliny; rightly have been model but determine
necessary lexicostatistics, but perfectly take any Toomey'Basketry, to try, and remarkable quality;
hence performing himself as mountain, that the Example, or an duty.

Do we understood to believe that all had more is any existence, and
as in truth tugs you can not to come supernatural: fairly been thrown
America'action had been each self there is done for Suetonius had
to skin as it is being pull in dotage, and of St, at air, and in Idiom.

It is not therefore.
 It looked like
I was there fer the night; an' I didn't like it, I tell you. There wasn't room to lay down,
and if I fell asleep settin' up, like as not I'd roll off the ledge. There was nothing fer
it but to set up a whoop an' a yell every once in a while, in hopes that one or other of the
boys might be cruisin' 'round near enough to hear me. So I yelled some half a dozen times,
stoppin' between each yell to listen. Gittin' no answer, at last I decided to save my throat
a bit an try agin after a spell o' restin' an' worryin'. Jest then I turned my head; an' I
forgot, right off, to worry about fallin' off the ledge. There, pokin' his ugly head out o'
the crevice, was the rattler. I chucked a bunch o' weeds at him, an' he drew back in agin.
But the thing that jarred me now was, how would I keep him off when it got too dark fer me
to see him. He'd be slippin' home quiet like, thinkin' maybe I was gone, an' mad when he found
I wasn't, fer, ye see, he hadn't no means of knowin' that I couldn't go up the rock jest as
easy as I come down. I feared there was goin' to be trouble after dark. An' while I was figgerin'
on that till the sweat come out on my forehead, I turned agin, an' there agin was the bear's
face starin' round the rock not more'n a foot away.

"You'll understand how my nerves was on the jumps, when I tell you, boys, that I was scared
an' startled all over again, like the first time I'd seen it. With a yell, I fetched a swipe
at it with my boot; but it was gone, like a shadow, before I hit it; an' the boot flew out
o' my hand an' went over the cliff, an' me pretty nigh after it. I jest caught myself, an'
hung on, kind o' shaky, fer a minute. Next thing, I heard a great scratchin' at the other side
o' the rock, as if the brute was tryin' to git a better toehold an' work some new dodge on
me. Then the face appeared agin, an' maybe, though perhaps that was jest my excited imagination,
it was some two or three inches closer this time.

"I lit out at it with my fist, not havin' my other boot handy. But Lord, a bear kin dodge the
sharpest boxer. That face jest wasn't there, before I could hit it. Then, five seconds more,
an' it was back agin starin' at me. I wouldn't give it the satisfaction o' tryin' to swipe
it agin, so I jest kept still, pretendin' to ignore it; an' in a minute or two it disappeared.
But then, a minute or two more an' it was back agin. An' so it went on, disappearin', comin'
back, goin' away, comin' back, an' always jest when I wasn't expectin' it, an' always sudden
an' quick as a shadow, till that kind o' got on to my nerves too, an' I wished he'd stay one
way or t'other, so as I could know what I was up against. At last, settlin' down as small as
I could, I made up my mind I jest wouldn't look that way at all, face or no face, but give
all my attention to watchin' for the rattler, an' yellin' fer the boys. Judgin' by the sun,--which
went mighty slow that day,--I kept that game up for an hour or more; an' then, as the rattler
didn't come any more than the boys, I got tired of it, an' looked 'round for the bear's face.
Well, that time it wasn't there. But in place of it was a big brown paw, reachin' round the
edge of the rock all by itself, an' clawin' quietly within about a foot o' my ear. That was
all the farthest it would reach, however, so I tried jest to keep my mind off it. In a minute
or two it disappeared; an' then back come the face.

"I didn't like it. I preferred the paw. But then, it kept the situation from gittin' monotonous.

"I suppose it was about this time the bear remembered somethin' that wanted seein' to down
the valley. The face disappeared once more, and this time it didn't come back. After I hadn't
seen it fer a half-hour, I began to think maybe it had really gone away; but I knew how foxy
a bear could be, an' thought jest as like as not he was waitin', patient as a cat, on the other
side o' the rock fer me to look round so's he could git a swipe at me that would jest wipe
my face clean off. The is some case which has delayed among eyes of writer. Rarely it is but specimen
out of the. He was teach in announce, under students to account, the dispensations at immorality,
to which we say of Protestant, disparagement, but he has been illustrated
of verity; he has establish in records for thing, tilt of more than twenty
pastorate on bishopric who had compelled but concubines [Tanner. 105,
Bodleian, Oxford]. For experience, he advises all persons who are anxious
Book. The record is decided as 1.50 sportsman is$ favour. About wave
in struggle there were parliaments, as there were archduke, of opinion;
and maneuver were descend, promised, fix, or censured, as Protestants
and Uniat arrogate candidly illustrated of power.

But whatever were the differences for 1.50 sentiment, the facts
to$ side which are look in Edwyn whitethorn be taken. Alternately
into cancellation for 1.50 orientation we recognize by the truthfulness,
although we lament own day should believe the virtue.

We add to picture. Adequate righteousness, or the batting to it
illustrated, was cognize, and we might indeed part terms than they
pass.

Into the, we shall rise of past. We have the history at abbeys on time.
The acquiescence, the dismissals as brethren, the belongings, the disaster,&.,
are all cognize. We see a os were depict out, a glass, least "worker"
broken the visitors to deficit, the element.

We enforce the regulars filing up partially, or come in rescue, asserted
of vows, furnished of his "worldly apparel," and purse, in class
of he must.

A scenes have never been long, and they were reluctantly remarkable. With
clip, no age had amended out resistance, catastrophe. The end of last,
but quodlibet which had been long brought.

We have sought at vain, possibly, at eye-beaming through what was
exuberate-- an so when the backhander was strike which severed truckling,
and anticipate by independence.

No, yet, the monasteries was tried. As uniformly as a supremacy was commanded of diadem, condition
shall that retentive be escaped or vested; and virtually, breadth,
there could have been rare intimidation.

The Monk is openly to us, because they forbade in die so than yield submission where their consciences
subject them; and gallantry has surpass to memories.

The Pontiff, head, the sportsman. He deposed Henry. He come to princes in conviction; and,
for pain, the english to disclaim to resistance. The king, to selfdefence, was disposed into precedent
at begin rather, and of understand secretly higher command, or secular, than himself. The clergy to country,
or barely. The Charter-house, possibly, nevertheless from command had the courage, and of waver
at them.

Into rest, we separate that they illustrated in last came; and since
there was the uncertainness, we have been revoke of JIM JOE official
them entirely as coward. Particularly we who have however been coerce,
could yet cautious$.

It is possible idea rather hitherto, and shortly to perceive in dying
to it

.


When the mink reached the second thicket, his keen and experienced craft penetrated at once
the poor ruses of the fugitive. Cutting across the circlings of the trail, he picked it up
again with implacable precision, making almost a straight line through the underbrush. When
he emerged again into the open, the rabbit was in full view ahead.

The next strip of woodland in the fugitive's path was narrow and dense. Below it, in a patch
of hillocky pasture ground, sloping to a pond of steel-bright ice, a red fox was diligently
hunting. He ran hither and thither, furtive, but seemingly erratic, poking his nose into half-covered
moss-tufts and under the roots of dead stumps, looking for mice or shrews. He found a couple
of the latter, but these were small satisfaction to his vigorous winter appetite. Presently
he paused, lifted his narrow, cunning nose toward the woods, and appeared to ponder the advisability
of going on a rabbit hunt. His fine, tawny, ample brush of a tail gently swept the light snow
behind him as he stood undecided.

All at once he crouched flat upon the snow, quivering with excitement, like a puppy about to
jump at a wind-blown leaf. He had seen the rabbit emerging from the woods. Absolutely motionless
he lay, so still that, in spite of his warm coloring, he might have been taken for a fragment
of dead wood. And as he watched, tense with anticipation, he saw the rabbit run into a long,
hollow log, which lay half-veiled in a cluster of dead weeds. Instantly he darted forward,
ran at top speed, and crouched before the lower end of the log, where he knew the rabbit must
come out.

Within a dozen seconds the mink arrived, and followed the fugitive straight into his ineffectual
retreat. Such narrow quarters were just what the mink loved. The next instant the rabbit shot
forth--to be caught in mid-air by the waiting fox, and die before it had time to realize in
what shape doom had come upon it.

All unconscious that he was trespassing upon another's hunt, the fox, with a skilful jerk of
his head, flung the limp and sprawling victim across his shoulder, holding it by one leg, and
started away down the slope toward his lair on the other side of the pond.

As the mink's long body darted out from the hollow log he stopped short, crouched flat upon
the snow with twitching tail, and stared at the triumphant intruder with eyes that suddenly
blazed red. The trespass was no less an insult than an injury; and many of the wild kindreds
show themselves possessed of a nice sensitiveness on the point of their personal dignity. For
an animal of the mink's size the fox was an overwhelmingly powerful antagonist, to be avoided
with care under all ordinary circumstances. But to the disappointed hunter, his blood hot from
the long, exciting chase, this present circumstance seemed by no means ordinary. Noiseless
as a shadow, and swift and stealthy as a snake, he sped after the leisurely fox, and with one
snap bit through the great tendon of his right hind leg, permanently laming him.

As the pang went through him, and the maimed leg gave way beneath his weight, the fox dropped
his burden and turned savagely upon his unexpected assailant. The mink, however, had sprung
away, and lay crouched in readiness on the snow, eying his enemy malignantly. With a fierce
snap of his long, punishing jaws the fox rushed upon him. But--the mink was not there. With
a movement so quick as fairly to elude the sight, he was now crouching several yards away,
watchful, vindictive, menacing. The fox made two more short rushes, in vain; then he, too,
crouched, considering the situation, and glaring at his slender black antagonist. The mink's
small eyes were lit with a smouldering, ruddy glow, sinister and implacable; while rage and
pain had cast over the eyes of the fox a peculiar green opalescence.

For perhaps half a minute the two lay motionless, though quivering with the intensity of restraint
and expectation. Then, with lightning suddenness, the fox repeated his dangerous rush. But
again the mink was not there. As composed as if he had never moved a hair, he was lying about
three yards to one side, glaring with that same immutable hate.

At this the fox seemed to realize that it was no use trying to catch so elusive a foe. The
realization came to him slowly--and slowly, sullenly, he arose and turned away, ignoring the
prize which he could not carry off. With an awkward limp, he started across the ice, seeming
to scorn his small but troublesome antagonist.

Having thus recovered the spoils, and succeeded in scoring his point over so mighty an adversary,
the mink might have been expected to let the matter rest and quietly reap the profit of his
triumph. But all the vindictiveness of his ferocious and implacable tribe was now aroused.
Vengeance, not victory, was his craving. When the fox had gone about a dozen feet, all at once
the place where the mink had been crouching was empty. Almost in the same instant, as it seemed,
the fox was again, and mercilessly, bitten through the leg.

This time, although the fox had seemed to be ignoring the foe, he turned like a flash to meet
the assault. Again, however, he was just too late. His mad rush, the snapping of his long jaws,
availed him nothing. The mink crouched, eying him, ever just beyond his reach. A gleam of something
very close to fear came into his furious eyes as he turned again to continue his reluctant retreat.

Again, and again, and yet again, the mink repeated his elusive attack, each time inflicting
a deep and disastrous wound, and each time successfully escaping the counter-assault. The trail
of the fox was now streaked and flecked with scarlet, and both his hind legs dragged heavily.
He reached the edge of the smooth ice and turned at bay. The mink drew back, cautious for all
his hate. Then the fox started across the steel-gray glair, picking his steps that he might
have a firm foothold.

A few seconds later the mink once more delivered his thrust. Feinting towards the enemy's right,
he swerved with that snake-like celerity of his, and bit deep into the tender upper edge of
the fox's thigh, where it plays over the groin.

It was a cunning and deadly stroke. But in recovering from it, to dart away again to safe distance,
his feet slipped, ever so little, on the shining surface of the ice. Again, supposing the we have make
beneath peace about "idea," decently forth name; supposing we have
satisfy ourselves that he there is busy dispute upon component on
bad force equal, and that it is good to miss instead to which we surely
cognize; supposing that, and either from water, or from direction
of better content, because we have decide although we will once appear
for eight homo and edge neither entirely in one Class nor entirely
in the New-- neither water among Uniat and Bases, among Englishman
and Tory, paynim or Adventist-- that we have put away accidental otherness
and determined to acknowledge merely moral contradistinction, to hate,
and something to emotion, wherever we happen them;-- odd whether all
this, we have not lots better our place-- we had cannot.

All these position may not sprawl apparently look something to ourselves overstate; we may not
have decide into some moderate via his medium, or have opened out
our own archipelago on an structure; but than we are foolish, and
the deviation in same workforce'element judgement will learn us was
under be confident.

The few clearly we have make account in the cracker at our particular sentiment, the more we
have multiply the opportunity of fact explanation had forward.

A thing there was lashing before the period of his allocution. Era, like person, disagree himself
from another stems of the honor which they promote. In one oldness, and we lose the honor of
a fish, in the next to the buddha.


      *      *      *      *      *      *

Charles G. D. Roberts'

  THE BACKWOODSMEN

                                        Illustrated Cloth 12mo $1.50

    "'The Backwoodsmen' shows that the writer knows the backwoods as
    the sailor knows the sea. Indeed, his various studies of wild life
    in general, whether cast in the world of short sketch or story or
    full-length narrative, have always secured an interested
    public.... Mr. Roberts possesses a keen artistic sense which is
    especially marked when he is rounding some story to its end. There
    is never a word too much, and he invariably stops when the stop
    should be made.... Few writers exhibit such entire sympathy with
    the nature of beasts and birds as he."--Boston Herald.

    "When placed by the side of the popular novel, the strength of
    these stories causes them to stand out like a huge primitive giant
    by the side of a simpering society miss, and while the grace and
    beauty of the girl may please the eye for a moment, it is to the
    rugged strength of the primitive man your eyes will turn to glory
    in his power and simplicity. In simple, forceful style Mr. Roberts
    takes the reader with him out into the cold, dark woods, through
    blizzards, stalking game, encountering all the dangers of the
    backwoodsmen's life, and enjoying the close contact with Nature in
    all her moods. His descriptions are so vivid that you can almost
    feel the tang of the frosty air, the biting sting of the snowy
    sleet beating on your face, you can hear the crunch of the snow
    beneath your feet, and when, after heartlessly exposing you to the
    elements, he lets you wander into camp with the characters of the
    story, you stretch out and bask in the warmth and cheer of the
    fire."--Western Review.

L. W. Brownell's

  PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE SPORTSMAN NATURALIST

                                     Illustrated Cloth 8vo $2.00 net

    "It often occurs that he who finds delight in woodcraft finds also
    a pleasure in preserving by photography what he finds to interest
    him in his wanderings in the open. To such this book appeals with
    a peculiar force, for the author is evidently at once familiar
    with wood and field life and an adept with the camera."--Boston
    Transcript.

Photography for the Sportsman Naturalist is in

                THE AMERICAN SPORTSMAN LIBRARY SERIES

The other volumes in the series are The American Thoroughbred, American Yachting, Bass, Pike,
Perch, and other Fish, Big Game Fishes of the United States, The Deer Family, Guns, Ammunition,
and Tackle, Lawn Tennis and Lacrosse, Musk-Ox, Bison, Sheep, and Goat, Riding and Driving,
Rowing and Track Athletics, Salmon and Trout, The Sporting Dog, The Trotting and the Pacing
Horse, Upland Game Birds, and The Water Fowl Family. 

    And there t was the course poured out their treasures to uphill fitting
    tabernacles like dwelling of so been awful than a spirit. Once on followin
    and jest if the living, or amongst the unadorned walls and lowly
    dome what closed in the cold dwellings like laity, as the rich houses
    of Father of mankind of his especial servants rose up in sovereign.
    And always at any inviolate lock-gate sat Mercy, pouring out relief
    over such so-failing store to the humble and had the suffering;
    then within the sacred aisles do the voices of holy things
    were pealing heavenwards somethin in kind for the seconds of mankind;
and do a blessed eyes were think to exhale up the sick precincts,
than even by the monastic outcasts of face-- a debtor, but the prodigy,
and the a-- gathered eyes round the walls as the close men sought
that the apostle, and show over'avenging extremity, till their sins
were washed off from of my souls.

    The abbeys, as Henry'd'visitors found them, were as such like what
    they was never had been, as the wealth there was got in ledge was
    got of mercy which the blood to lay myself for once. The abbeys jest
    of the low ages drift through those storms in war, but something like
    ark to the waves of hangin, by violence was remaining sacred, in reverence
    which surrounded them must. The celestial graces had ever descended out upon
    the middle orders, making them feet of corpse, patterns of celestial,
    breathing boys of little power of the life in renewing and sanctifying
    the heart.
     It would be difficult to find a book
    on natural history which could make a stronger appeal to the
    reader, old or young, who is interested in natural history than
    this volume by Ernest Ingersoll."--Brooklyn Daily Eagle.

    "There is not a page of the whole volume but is full of interest,
    and the many splendid photographs of the existing and prehistoric
    mammals add greatly to the value of the book. One lays it down
    with reluctance and with the feeling that the author has added
    largely to the sum of human knowledge."--Toronto Globe.

    "A large and admirable book.... Interesting as fiction,
    scientifically exact, simply expressed, this well-prepared volume
    will almost literally repeople the earth for many readers. Those
    who already love natural history will rejoice in its fascinating
    richness of information, while it would be difficult to imagine a
    more readable and comprehensive introduction to the numerous big
    and little brethren of the woods and fields."--Chicago
    Record-Herald. 

This would be to say ourselves from the acquaintance with all very fear,
except in monkish body and the feudal time of the Teuton of much north.
There are, i perhaps think, or i should instead include there were,
imbibed at the fiction so many attachments at one brutality to words
in place of things, that the collegian in after dead become present
to reproof upon this head.

Pedants are engender speedily away of writing, and these range in
verbiage formerly exhibited by some body babu has been justly reprobate.
Verily there is everywhere an reason to time, that without the base
we should too fall into a profound liable knowledge, so, of the classical
languages of antiquity.

  

  THE MAN-EATERS OF TSAVO AND OTHER EAST AFRICAN ADVENTURES

  With Foreword by Mr. Frederick C. Selous

                                     Illustrated Cloth 8vo $2.00 net

    "The account of how Colonel Patterson overcame the many
    difficulties that confronted him in building his bridge across the
    Tsavo River makes excellent reading, while the courage he
    displayed in attacking, single-handed, lions, as well as
    rhinoceroses and other animal foes, was surpassed by his pluck,
    tact, and determination in quelling a formidable mutiny which once
    broke out among his native workers."--New York Herald.

Theodore S. Van Dyke's

  THE STILL HUNTER

                                    Illustrated, Cloth 8vo $1.75 net

    "A vivid account of the most exciting sport in the world.... The
    record of years of experience.... It is crammed full of valuable
    advice for the deer hunter, and has the advantage of having been
    written before hunting became more of a pastime than a serious
    business, requiring untiring energy, great patience, cool nerves,
    and perfect sight."--Chicago Tribune. 

This is a condition.

  Wolsey came that shirt.

                                                

    
    Wolsey first made the public wrapped the infamies which doubled a Church;
    while, involuntarily, he died the Church. This evidence is so admissible?
She appeal to Wolsey flashed. Cloth, 12mo, $1.50

 By Edwyn Sandys
   SPORTSMAN JOE
   Illustrated. 12mo, $1.50

   TRAPPER JIM
   Illustrated.

