     [A motto has since been associated with the coat-of-arms, although
     it is not certain that Columbus adopted it in his lifetime.  Columbus was granted a very
large gratuity on his arrival in Barcelona, and even taking the product
of the islands at a tenth part of their value as estimated by him, he
still had every right to suppose himself one of the richest men in Spain.
Yet he accepted this paltry pension of L8. 6s. 8d.  in our modern
money (of 1900), which, taking the increase in the purchasing power of
money at an extreme estimate, would not be more than the equivalent of
$4000 now.  Now Columbus had not been the first person to see land; he
saw the light, but it was Rodrigo de Triana, the look-out man on the
Pinta, who first saw the actual land.  Columbus in his narrative to the
King and Queen would be sure to make much of the seeing of the light, and
not so much of the actual sighting of land; and he was on the spot, and
the reward was granted to him.  Even if we assume that in strict equity
Columbus was entitled to it, it was at least a matter capable of
argument, if only Rodrigo de Triana had been there to argue it; and what
are we to think of the Admiral of the Ocean Seas and Viceroy of the
Indies who thus takes what can only be called a mean advantage of a poor
seaman in his employ?  It would have been a competence and a snug little
fortune to Rodrigo de Triana; it was a mere flea-bite to a man who was
thinking in eighth parts of continents.  It may be true, as Oviedo
alleges, that Columbus transferred it to Beatriz Enriquez; but he had no
right to provide for her out of money that in all equity and decency
ought to have gone to another and a poorer man.  His biographers, some of
whom have vied with his canonisers in insisting upon seeing virtue in his
every action, have gone to all kinds of ridiculous extremes in accounting
for this piece of meanness.  Irving says that it was "a subject in which
his whole ambition was involved"; but a plain person will regard it as an
instance of greed and love of money.  We must not shirk facts like this
if we wish to know the man as he really was.  That he was capable of
kindness and generosity, and that he was in the main kind-hearted, we
have fortunately no reason to doubt; and if I dwell on some of his less
amiable characteristics it is with no desire to magnify them out of their
due proportion.  They are part of that side of him that lay in shadow, as
some side of each one of us lies; for not all by light nor all by shade,
but by light and shade combined, is the image of a man made visible to
us.

It is quite of a piece with the character of Columbus that while he was writing a receipt for
the look-out man's money and thinking what a pretty gift it would make for Beatriz Enriquez
he was planning a splendid and spectacular thank-offering for all the dignities to which he
had been raised; and, brooding upon the vast wealth that was now to be his, that he should
register a vow to furnish within seven years an expedition of four thousand horse and fifty
thousand foot for the rescue of the Holy Sepulchre, and a similar force within five years after
the first if it should be necessary.  It was probable that the vow was a provisional one, and
that its performance was to be contingent on his actual receipt and possession of the expected
money; for as we know, there was no money and no expedition.  The vow was in effect a kind
of religious flourish much beloved by Columbus, undertaken seriously and piously enough, but
belonging rather to his public than to his private side.  A much more simple and truly pious
act of his was, not the promising of visionary but the sending of actual money to his old father
in Savona, which he did immediately after his arrival in Spain.