On the day following, the 24th March, a breeze sprang up, and we made a run of 187 miles. We
have now passed the greatest heat, and shortly expect cooler weather. Our spirits rise with
the breeze, and we again begin to think of getting up some entertainments on board; for, though
we have run some 4,800 miles from Plymouth, we have still some fifty days before us ere we
expect to see Melbourne.

One thing that strikes me much is the magnificence of the tropical sunsets. The clouds assume
all sorts of fantastic shapes, and appear more solid and clearly defined than I have ever seen
before. Towards evening they seem to float in colour--purple, pink, red, and yellow alternately--while
the sky near the setting sun seems of a beautiful green, gradually melting into the blue sky
above. The great clouds on the horizon look like mountains tipped with gold and fiery red.
One of these sunsets was a wonderful sight. The sun went down into the sea between two enormous
clouds--the only ones to be seen--and they blazed with the brilliant colours I have described,
which were constantly changing, until the clouds stood out in dark relief against the still
delicately-tinted sky. I got up frequently to see the sun rise, but in the tropics it is not
nearly so fine at its rising as at its setting.

A ship was announced as being in sight, with a signal flying to speak with us. We were sailing
along under a favourable breeze, but our captain put the ship about and waited for the stranger.
It proved to be a Yankee whaler. When the captain came on board, he said "he guessed he only
wanted newspapers." Our skipper was in a "roaring wax" at being stopped in his course for such
a trivial matter, but he said nothing. The whaler had been out four years, and her last port
was Honolulu in the Sandwich Islands. The Yankee captain, amongst other things, wanted to know
if Grant was President, and if the 'Alabama' question was settled; he was interested in the
latter question, as the 'Alabama' had burnt one of his ships. He did not seem very comfortable
while on board, and when he had got his papers he took his leave. I could not help admiring
the whale-boat in which he was rowed back to his own vessel. It was a beautiful little thing,
though dirty; but, it had doubtless seen much service. It was exquisitely modelled, and the
two seamen in the little craft handled it to perfection. How they contrived to stand up in
it quite steady, while the boat, sometimes apparently half out of the water, kept rising and
falling on the long ocean-swell, seemed to me little short of marvellous.

CHAPTER IV. April.--I was roused early this morning by the cry outside of "Get up! get up!
There is a ship on fire ahead!" I got up instantly, dressed, and hastened on deck, like many
more. But there was no ship on fire; and then we laughed, and remembered that it was All Fools'
Day.

In the course of the forenoon we descried a sail, and shortly after we observed that she was
bearing down upon us. The cry of "Letters for home!" was raised, and we hastened below to scribble
a few last words, close our letters, and bring them up for the letter-bag.

By this time the strange ship had drawn considerably nearer, and we saw that she was a barque,
heavily laden. She proved to be the 'Pyrmont,' a German vessel belonging to Hamburg, but now
bound for Yarmouth from Iquique, with a cargo of saltpetre on board. When she came near enough
to speak to us, our captain asked, "What do you want?" The answer was, "'Blue Jacket' burnt
at sea; her passengers on board. Have you a doctor?" Here was a sensation! Our April Fools'
alarm was true after all. A vessel had been on fire, and here were the poor passengers asking
for help. We knew nothing of the 'Blue Jacket,' but soon we were to know all.

A boat was at once lowered from the davits, and went off with the doctor and the first mate.
It was a hazy, sultry, tropical day, with a very slight breeze stirring, and very little sea.
Our main-yard was backed to prevent our further progress, and both ships lay-to within a short
distance of each other. We watched our boat until we saw the doctor and officer mount the 'Pyrmont,'
and then waited for further intelligence.

Shortly after we saw our boat leaving the ship's side, and as it approached we observed that
it contained some strangers, as well as our doctor, who had returned for medicines, lint, and
other appliances. When the strangers reached the deck we found that one of them was the first
officer of the unfortunate 'Blue Jacket,' and the other one of the burnt-out passengers. The
latter, poor fellow, looked a piteous sight. He had nothing on but a shirt and pair of trowsers;
his hair was matted, his face haggard, his eyes sunken. He was without shoes, and his feet
were so sore that he could scarcely walk without support.

And yet it turned out that this poor suffering fellow was one of the best-conditioned of those
who had been saved from the burnt ship. He told us how that the whole of the fellow-passengers
whom he had just left on board the 'Pyrmont' wanted clothes, shirts, and shoes, and were in
a wretched state, having been tossed about at sea in an open boat for about nine days, during
which they had suffered the extremities of cold, thirst, and hunger.

We were horrified by the appearance, and still more by the recital, of the poor fellow. Every
moment he astonished us by new details of horror. But it was of no use listening to more. We
felt we must do something. All the passengers at once bestirred themselves, and went into their
cabins to seek out any clothing they could spare for the relief of the sufferers. I found I
could give trowsers, shirts, a pair of drawers, a blanket, and several pocket-handkerchiefs;
and as the other passengers did likewise, a very fair bundle was soon made up and sent on board
the 'Pyrmont.'

Of course we were all eager to know something of the details of the calamity which had befallen
the 'Blue Jacket.' It was some time before we learnt them all; but as two of the passengers--who
had been gold-diggers in New Zealand--were so good as to write out a statement for the doctor,
the original of which now lies before me, I will endeavour, in as few words as I can, to give
you some idea of the burning of the ship and the horrible sufferings of the passengers.

The 'Blue Jacket' sailed from Port Lyttleton, New Zealand, for London on the 13th February,
1869, laden with wool, cotton, flax, and 15,000 ounces of gold. There were seven first-cabin
passengers and seventeen second-cabin. The ship had a fine run to Cape Horn and past the Falkland
Islands. All went well until the 9th March, when in latitude 50° 26' south, one of the seamen,
about midday, observed smoke issuing from the fore-hatchhouse. The cargo was on fire! All haste
was made to extinguish it. The fire-engines were set to work, passengers as well as crew working
with a will, and at one time it seemed as if the fire would be got under. The hatch was opened
and the second mate attempted to go down, with the object of getting up and throwing overboard
the burning bales, but he was drawn back insensible. The hatch was again closed, and holes
were cut in the deck to pass the water down; but the seat of the fire could not be reached.
The cutter was lowered, together with the two lifeboats, for use in case of need. About 7.30
P.M. the fire burst through the decks, and in about half an hour the whole forecastle was enveloped
in flames, which ran up the rigging, licking up the foresail and fore-top. The mainmast being
of iron, the flames rushed through the tube as through a chimney, until it became of a white
heat. The lady-passengers in the after part of the ship must have been kept in a state of total
ignorance of the ship's danger, otherwise it is impossible to account for their having to rush
on board the boats, at the last moment, with only the dresses they wore. Only a few minutes
before they left the ship, one of the ladies was playing the 'Guards' Waltz on the cabin piano!

There was no hope of safety but in the boats, which were hurriedly got into. On deck, everything
was in a state of confusion. Most of the passengers got into the cutter, but without a seaman
to take charge of it. When the water-cask was lowered, it was sent bung downwards, and nearly
half the water was lost. By this time the burning ship was a grand but fearful sight, and the
roar of the flames was frightful to hear. At length the cutter and the two lifeboats got away,
and as they floated astern the people in them saw the masts disappear one by one and the hull
of the ship a roaring mass of fire.

In the early grey of the morning the three boats mustered, and two of the passengers, who were
on one of the lifeboats, were taken on board the cutter. It now contained 37 persons, including
the captain, first officer, doctor, steward, purser, several able-bodied seamen, and all the
passengers; while the two lifeboats had 31 of the crew. The boats drifted about all day, there
being no wind, and the burning ship was still in sight. On the third day the lifeboats were
not to be seen; each had a box of gold on board, by way of ballast.

A light breeze having sprung up, sail was made on the cutter, the captain intending to run
for the Falkland Islands. The sufferings of the passengers increased from day to day; they
soon ran short of water, until the day's allowance was reduced to about two tablespoonfuls
for each person. It was pitiful to hear the little children calling for more, but it could
not be given them: men, women, and children had to share alike. Provisions failed. The biscuit
had been spoiled by the salt water; all that remained in the way of food, was preserved meat,
which was soon exhausted, after which the only allowance, besides the two tablespoonfuls of
water, was a tablespoonful of preserved soup every twenty-four hours. Meanwhile the wind freshened,
the sea rose, and the waves came dashing over the passengers, completely drenching them. The
poor ladies, thinly clad, looked the pictures of misery.

Thus seven days passed--days of slow agony, such as words cannot describe--until at last the
joyous words, "A sail! a sail," roused the sufferers to new life. A man was sent to the masthead
with a red blanket to hoist by way of signal of distress. The ship saw the signal and bore
down upon the cutter. She proved to be the 'Pyrmont,' the ship lying within sight of us, and
between which and the 'Yorkshire' our boat kept plying for the greater part of the day.

Strange to say, the rescued people suffered more after they had got on board the 'Pyrmont'
than they had done during their period of starvation and exposure. Few of them could stand
or walk when taken on board, all being reduced to the last stage of weakness. Scarcely had
they reached the 'Pyrmont' ere the third steward died; next day the ship's purser died insane;
and two days after, one of the second-cabin passengers died. The others, who recovered, broke
out in sores and boils, more particularly on their hands and feet; and when the 'Yorkshire'
met them, many of the passengers as well as the crew of the burnt 'Blue Jacket' were in a most
pitiable plight.

I put off with the third boat which left our ship's side for the 'Pyrmont.' We were lying nearly
becalmed all this time, so that passing between the ships by boat was comparatively easy. We
took with us as much fresh water as we could spare, together with provisions and other stores.
I carried with me a few spare books for the use of the 'Blue Jacket' passengers.

On reaching the deck of the 'Pyrmont,' the scene which presented itself was such as I think
I shall never forget. The three rescued ladies were on the poop; and ladies you could see they
were, in spite of their scanty and dishevelled garments. The dress of one of them consisted
of a common striped man's shirt, a waterproof cloak made into a skirt, and a pair of coarse
canvas slippers, while on her finger glittered a magnificent diamond ring. The other ladies
were no better dressed, and none of them had any covering for the head. Their faces bore distinct
traces of the sufferings they had undergone. Their eyes were sunken, their cheeks pale, and
every now and then a sort of spasmodic twitch seemed to pass over their features. One of them
could just stand, but could not walk; the others were comparatively helpless. A gentleman was
lying close by the ladies, still suffering grievously in his hands and feet from the effects
of his long exposure in the open boat, while one side of his body was completely paralysed.
One poor little boy could not move, and the doctor said he must lose one or two of his toes
through mortification.

One of the ladies was the wife of the passenger gentleman who had first come on board of our
ship. She was a young lady, newly married, who had just set out on her wedding trip. What a
terrible beginning of married life! I found she had suffered more than the others through her
devotion to her husband. He was, at one time, constantly employed in baling the boat, and would
often have given way but for her. She insisted on his taking half her allowance of water, so
that he had three tablespoonfuls daily instead of two; whereas she had only one!

While in the boat the women and children were forced to sit huddled up at one end of it, covered
with a blanket, the seas constantly breaking over them and soaking through everything. They
had to sit upright, and in very cramped postures, for fear of capsizing the boat; and the little
sleep they got could only be snatched sitting. Yet they bore their privations with great courage
and patience, and while the men were complaining and swearing, the women and children never
uttered a complaint.

I had a long talk with the ladies, whom I found very resigned and most grateful for their deliverance.
I presented my books, which were thankfully received, and the newly-married lady, forgetful
of her miseries, talked pleasantly and intelligently about current topics, and home news. It
did seem strange for me to be sitting on the deck of the 'Pyrmont,' in the middle of the Atlantic,
talking with these shipwrecked ladies about the last new novel!

At last we took our leave, laden with thanks, and returned on board our ship. It was now growing
dusk. We had done all that we could for the help of the poor sufferers on board the 'Pyrmont,'
and, a light breeze springing up, all sail was set, and we resumed our voyage south.

Two of the gold-diggers, who had been second-class passengers by the 'Blue Jacket,' came on
board our ship with the object of returning with us to Melbourne, and it is from their recital
that I have collated the above account of the disaster.

CHAPTER V.

IN THE SOUTH ATLANTIC.

11th April.--We are now past the pleasantest part of our voyage, and expect to encounter much
rougher seas. Everything is accordingly prepared for heavy weather. The best and newest sails
are bent; the old and worn ones are sent below. We may have to encounter storms or even cyclones
in the Southern Ocean, and our captain is now ready for any wind that may blow. For some days
we have had a very heavy swell coming up from the south, as if there were strong winds blowing
in that quarter. We have, indeed, already had a taste of dirty weather to-day--hard rain, with
a stiffish breeze; but as the ship is still going with the wind and sea, we do not as yet feel
much inconvenience.

A few days since, we spoke a vessel that we had been gradually coming up to for some time,
and she proved to be the 'George Thompson,' a splendid Aberdeen-built clipper, one of the fastest
ships out of London. No sooner was this known, than it became a matter of great interest as
to whether we could overhaul the clipper. Our ship, because of the height and strength of her
spars, enables us to carry much more sail, and we are probably equal to the other ship in lighter
breezes; but she, being clipper-built and so much sharper, has the advantage of us in heavier
winds. The captain was overjoyed at having gained upon the other vessel thus far, for she left
London five days before we sailed from Plymouth. As we gradually drew nearer, the breeze freshened,
and there became quite an exciting contest between the ships. We gained upon our rival, caught
up to her, and gradually forged ahead, and at sundown the 'George Thompson' was about six miles
astern. Before we caught up to her she signalled to us, by way of chaff, "Signal us at Lloyd's!"
and when we had passed her, we signalled back, "We wish you a good voyage!"

The wind having freshened during the night, the 'George Thompson' was seen gradually creeping
up to us with all her sail set. The wind was on our beam, and the 'George Thompson's' dark
green hull seemed to us sometimes almost buried in the sea, and we only saw her slanting deck
as she heeled over from the freshening breeze. What a cloud of canvas she carried! The spray
flew up and over her decks, as she plunged right through the water.

The day advanced; she continued to gain, and towards evening she passed on our weather-side.
The captain, of course, was savage; but the race was not lost yet. On the following day, with
a lighter wind, we again overhauled our rival, and at night left her four or five miles behind.
Next day she was not to be seen. We had thus far completely outstripped the noted clipper.[1]

We again begin to reconsider the question of giving a popular entertainment on board. The ordinary
recreations of quoit-playing, and such like, have become unpopular, and a little variety is
wanted. A reading from 'Pickwick' is suggested; but cannot we contrive to act a few of the
scenes! We determine to get up three of the most attractive:--1st. The surprise of Mrs. Bardell
in Pickwick's arms; 2nd. The notice of action from Dodson and Fogg; and 3rd. The Trial scene.
A great deal of time is, of course, occupied in getting up the scenes, and in the rehearsals,
which occasion a good deal of amusement. A London gentleman promises to make a capital Sam
Weller; our clergyman a very good Buzfuz; and our worthy young doctor the great Pickwick himself.

At length all is ready, and the affair comes off in the main-hatch, where there is plenty of
room. The theatre is rigged out with flags, and looks quite gay. The passengers of all classes
assemble, and make a goodly company. The whole thing went off very well--indeed, much better
than was expected--though I do not think the third-class passengers quite appreciated the wit
of the piece. Strange to say, the greatest success of the evening was the one least expected--the
character of Mrs. Cluppins. One of the middies who took the part, was splendid, and evoked
roars of laughter.

Our success has made us ambitious, and we think of getting up another piece--a burlesque, entitled
'Sir Dagobert and the Dragon,' from one of my Beeton's 'Annuals.' There is not much in it;
but, faute de mieux, it may do very well. But to revert to less "towny" and much more interesting
matters passing on board.

We were in about the latitude of the Cape of Good Hope when we saw our first albatross; but
as we proceeded south, we were attended by increasing numbers of those birds as well as of
Mother Carey's chickens, the storm-birds of the South Seas. The albatross is a splendid bird,
white on the breast and the inside of the wings, the rest of the body being deep brown and black.

One of the most popular amusements is "fishing" for an albatross, which is done in the following
manner. A long and stout line is let out, with a strong hook at the end baited with a piece
of meat, buoyed up with corks. This is allowed to trail on the water at the stern of the ship.
One or other of the sea-birds wheeling about, seeing the floating object in the water, comes
up, eyes it askance, and perhaps at length clumsily flops down beside it. The line is at once
let out, so that the bait may not drag after the ship. If this be done cleverly, and there
be length enough of line to let out quickly, the bird probably makes a snatch at the meat,
and the hook catches hold of his curved bill. Directly he grabs at the pork, and it is felt
that the albatross is hooked, the letting out of the line is at once stopped, and it is hauled
in with all speed. The great thing is to pull quickly, so as to prevent the bird getting the
opportunity of spreading his wings, and making a heavy struggle as he comes along on the surface
of the water. It is a good heavy pull for two men to get up an albatross if the ship is going
at any speed. The poor fellow, when hauled on deck, is no longer the royal bird that he seemed
when circling above our heads with his great wings spread out only a few minutes ago. Here
he is quite helpless, and tries to waddle about like a great goose; the first thing he often
does being to void all the contents of his stomach, as if he were seasick.

The first albatross we caught was not a very large one, being only about ten feet from tip
to tip of the wings; whereas the larger birds measure from twelve to thirteen feet. The bird,
when caught, was held firmly down, and despatched by the doctor with the aid of prussic acid.
He was then cut up, and his skin, for the sake of the feathers and plumage, divided amongst
us. The head and neck fell to my share, and, after cleaning and dressing it, I hung my treasure
by a string out of my cabin-window; but, when I next went to look at it, lo! the string had
been cut, and my albatross's head and neck were gone.

All day the saloon and various cabins smelt very fishy by reason of the operations connected
with the dissecting and cleaning of the several parts of the albatross. One was making a pipe-stem
out of one of the long wing-bones. Another was making a tobacco pouch out of the large feet
of the bird. The doctor's cabin was like a butcher's shop in these bird-catching times. Part
of his floor would be occupied by the bloody skin of the great bird, stretched out upon boards,
with the doctor on his knees beside it working away with his dissecting scissors and pincers,
getting the large pieces of fat off the skin. Esculapius seemed quite to relish the operation;
whilst, on the other hand the clergyman, who occupied the same cabin, held his handkerchief
to his nose, and regarded the débris of flesh and feathers on the floor with horror and dismay.

Other birds, of a kind we had not before seen shortly made their appearance, flying round the
ship. There is, for instance, the whale-bird, perfectly black on the top of the wings and body,
and white underneath. It is, in size, between a Mother Carey and a Molly-hawk, which latter
is very nearly as big as an albatross. Ice-birds and Cape-pigeons also fly about us in numbers;
the latter are about the size of ordinary pigeons, black, mottled with white on the back, and
grey on the breast.

A still more interesting sight was that of a great grampus, which rose close to the ship, exposing
his body as he leapt through a wave. Shortly after, a few more were seen at a greater distance,
as if playing about and gambolling for our amusement.

17th April.--The weather is growing sensibly colder. Instead of broiling under cover, in the
thinnest of garments, we now revert to our winter clothing for comfort. Towards night the wind
rose, and gradually increased until it blew a heavy gale, so strong that all the sails had
to be taken in--all but the foresail and the main-topsail closely reefed. Luckily for us, the
wind was nearly aft, so that we did not feel its effects nearly so much as if it had been on
our beam. Tonight we rounded the Cape, twenty-four days from the Line and forty-five from Plymouth.

On the following day the wind was still blowing hard. When I went on deck in the morning, I
found that the mainsail had been split up the middle, and carried away with a loud bang to
sea. The ship was now under mizen-topsail, close-reefed main-topsail, and fore-topsail and
foresail, no new mainsail having been bent. The sea was a splendid sight. Waves, like low mountains,
came rolling after us, breaking along each side of the ship. I was a personal sufferer by the
gale. I had scarcely got on deck when the wind whisked off my Scotch cap with the silver thistle
in it, and blew it away to sea. Then, in going down to my cabin, I found my books, boxes, and
furniture lurching about; and, to wind up with, during the evening I was rolled over while
sitting on one of the cuddy chairs, and broke it. Truly a day full of small misfortunes for me!

In the night I was awakened by the noise and the violent rolling of the ship. The mizen-mast
strained and creaked; chairs had broken loose in the saloon; crockery was knocking about and
smashing up in the steward's pantry. In the cabin adjoining, the water-can and bath were rambling
up and down; and in the midst of all the hubbub the Major could be heard shouting, "Two to
one on the water-can!" "They were just taking the fences," he said. There were few but had
some mishap in their cabins. One had a hunt after a box that had broken loose; another was
lamenting the necessity of getting up after his washhand-basin and placing his legs in peril
outside his bunk. Before breakfast I went on deck to look at the scene. It was still blowing
a gale. We were under topsails and mainsail, with a close-reefed top-sail on the mizen-mast.
The sight from the poop is splendid. At one moment we were high up on the top of a wave, looking
into a deep valley behind us; at another we were down in the trough of the sea, with an enormous
wall of water coming after us. The pure light-green waves were crested with foam, which curled
over and over, and never stopped rolling. The deck lay over at a dreadful slant to a landsman's
eye; indeed, notwithstanding holding on to everything I could catch, I fell four times during
the morning.

With difficulty I reached the saloon, where the passengers had assembled for breakfast. Scarcely
had we taken out seats when an enormous sea struck the ship, landed on the poop, dashed in
the saloon skylight, and flooded the table with water. This was a bad event for those who had
not had their breakfast. As I was mounting the cuddy stairs, I met the captain coming down
thoroughly soaked. He had been knocked down, and had to hold on by a chain to prevent himself
being washed about the deck. The officer of the watch afterwards told me that he had seen his
head bobbing up and down amidst the water, of which there were tons on the poop.

This was what they call "shipping a green sea,"--so called because so much water is thrown
upon the deck that it ceases to have the frothy appearance of smaller seas when shipped, but
looks a mass of solid green water. Our skipper afterwards told us at dinner that the captain
of the 'Essex' had not long ago been thrown by such a sea on to one of the hen-coops that run
round the poop, breaking through the iron bars, and that he had been so bruised that he had
not yet entirely recovered from his injuries. Such is the tremendous force of water in violent
motion at sea.[2]

When I went on deck again, the wind had somewhat abated, but the sea was still very heavy.
While on the poop, one enormous wave came rolling on after us, seeming as if it must engulf
the ship. But the stern rose gradually and gracefully as the huge wave came on, and it rolled
along, bubbling over the sides of the main-deck, and leaving it about two feet deep in water.
As the day wore on the wind gradually went down, and it seemed as if we were to have another
spell of fine weather.

Next morning the sun shone clear; the wind had nearly died away, though a heavy swell still
crossed our quarter. Thousands of sea-birds flew about us, and clusters were to be seen off
our stern, as far as the eye could reach. They seemed, though on a much larger scale, to be
hanging upon our track, just as a flock of crows hang over the track of a plough in the field,
and doubtless for the same reason--to pick up the food thrown up by the mighty keel of our
ship. Most of them were ice-birds, blue petrels, and whale-birds, with a large admixture of
albatrosses and Mother Carey's chickens. One of the passengers caught and killed one of the
last-named birds, at which the captain was rather displeased, the sailors having a superstition
about these birds, that it is unlucky to kill them. An ice-bird was caught, and a very pretty
bird it is, almost pure white, with delicate blue feet and beak. Another caught a Cape pigeon,
and I caught a stink-pot, a large bird measuring about eight feet from wing to wing. The bird
was very plucky when got on deck, and tried to peck at us; but we soon had him down. As his
plumage was of no use, we fastened a small tin-plate to his leg, with 'Yorkshire' scratched
on it, and let him go. But it was some time before he rose from his waddling on the deck, spread
his wings, and sailed into the air.

Some of the passengers carry on shooting at the numerous birds from the stern of the ship;
but it is cruel sport. It may be fun to us, but it is death to the birds. And not always death.
Poor things! It is a pitiful sight to see one of them, pricked or winged, floating away with
its wounds upon it, until quite out of sight. Such sport seems cruel, if it be not cowardly.

23rd April.--We are now in latitude 45.16° south, and the captain tells us that during the
night we may probably sight the Crozet Islands. It seems that these islands are inaccurately
marked on the charts, some of even the best authorities putting them from one and a half to
two degrees out both in latitude and longitude, as the captain showed us by a late edition
of a standard work on navigation. Once he came pretty well south on purpose to sight them;
but when he reached the precise latitude in which, according to his authority, they were situated,
they were not to be seen.

At 8 P.M. the man on the look-out gave the cry of "Land ho!" "Where away?" "On the lee beam."
I strained my eyes in the direction indicated, but could make out nothing like land. I could
see absolutely nothing but water all round. Two hours passed before I could discern anything
which could give one the idea of land--three small, misty, cloud-looking objects, lying far
off to the south, which were said to be the islands. In about an hour more we were within about
five miles of Les Apôtres, part of the group, having passed Cochon in the distance. Cochon
is so called because of the number of wild pigs on the island. The largest, Possession Island,
gave refuge to the shipwrecked crew of a whaler for about two years, when they were at length
picked off by a passing ship. The Crozets are of volcanic origin, and some of them present
a curious, conical, and sometimes fantastic appearance, more particularly Les Apôtres. The
greater number of them are quite barren, the only vegetation of the others consisting of a
few low stunted bushes.

More theatricals! 'Sir Dagobert and the Dragon' is played, and comes off very well. The extemporised
dresses and "properties" are the most amusing of all. The company next proceed to get up 'Aladdin
and the Wonderful Scamp' to pass the time, which hangs heavy on our hands. We now begin to
long for the termination of our voyage. We have sailed about 10,000 miles, but have still about
3000 more before us.

30th April.--To-day we have made the longest run since we left Plymouth, not less than 290
miles in twenty-four hours. We have before made 270, but then the sea was smooth, and the wind
fair. Now the wind is blowing hard on our beam, with a heavy sea running. About 3 P.M. we sighted
a barque steering at right angles to our course. In a short time we came up with her, and found
that she was the Dutch barque 'Vrede,' ninety-eight days from Amsterdam and bound for Batavia.
She crossed so close to our stern that one might almost have pitched a biscuit on board.

During the night the sea rose, the wind blowing strong across our beam, and the ship pitched
and rolled as she is said never to have done since she was built. There was not much sleep
for us that night. The wind increased to a strong gale, until at length it blew quite a hurricane.
It was scarcely possible to stand on deck. The wind felt as if it blew solid. The ship was
driving furiously along under close-reefed topsails. Looking over the side, one could only
see the black waves, crested with foam, scudding past.

It appears that we are now in a cyclone--not in the worst part of it, but in the inner edge
of the outside circle. Skilful navigators know by experience how to make their way out of these
furious ocean winds, and our captain was equal to the emergency. In about seven hours we were
quite clear of it, though the wind blew fresh, and the ship rolled heavily, the sea continuing
for some time in a state of great agitation.

For some days the wind keeps favourable, and our ship springs forward as if she knew her port,
and was eager to reach it. A few more days and we may be in sight of Australia. We begin almost
to count the hours. In anticipation of our arrival, the usual testimonial to the captain is
set on foot, all being alike ready to bear testimony to his courtesy and seamanship. On deck,
the men began to holystone the planks, polish up the brasswork, and make everything shipshape
for port. The middies are at work here on the poop, each "with a sharp knife and a clear conscience,"
cutting away pieces of tarry rope. New ratlines are being fastened up across the shrouds. The
standing rigging is re-tarred and shines black. The deck is fresh scraped as well as the mizen-mast,
and the white paint-pot has been used freely.

9th May.--We are now in Australian waters, sailing along under the lee of Cape Leeuwin, though
the land is not yet in sight. Australian birds are flying about our ship, unlike any we have
yet seen. We beat up against the wind which is blowing off the land, our yards slewed right
round. It is provoking to be so near the end of our voyage, and blown back when almost in sight
of port.

14th May.--After four days of contrary wind, it changed again, and we are now right for Melbourne.
Our last theatrical performance came off with great éclat. The captain gave his parting supper
after the performance; and the menu was remarkable, considering that we had been out eighty-one
days from Gravesend. There were ducks, fowls, tongues, hams, with lobster-salads, oyster pattés,
jellies, blanc-manges, and dessert. Surely the art of preserving fresh meat and comestibles
must have nearly reached perfection. To wind up, songs were sung, toasts proposed, and the
captain's testimonial was presented amidst great enthusiasm.

