MEMORIES AND PORTRAITS

NOTE

THIS volume of papers, unconnected as they are, it will be better  to read through from the
beginning, rather than dip into at random.   A certain thread of meaning binds them.  Memories
of childhood and  youth, portraits of those who have gone before us in the battle -  taken
together, they build up a face that "I have loved long since  and lost awhile," the face of
what was once myself.  This has come  by accident; I had no design at first to be autobiographical;
I was  but led away by the charm of beloved memories and by regret for the  irrevocable dead;
and when my own young face (which is a face of  the dead also) began to appear in the well
as by a kind of magic, I  was the first to be surprised at the occurrence.

My grandfather the pious child, my father the idle eager  sentimental youth, I have thus unconsciously
exposed.  Of their  descendant, the person of to-day, I wish to keep the secret: not  because
I love him better, but because, with him, I am still in a  business partnership, and cannot
divide interests.

Of the papers which make up the volume, some have appeared already  in THE CORNHILL, LONGMAN'S,
SCRIBNER, THE ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED, THE  MAGAZINE OF ART, THE CONTEMPORARY REVIEW; three are
here in print  for the first time; and two others have enjoyed only what may he  regarded as
a private circulation.

R. L S.

CONTENTS

I.    THE FOREIGNER AT HOME II.   SOME COLLEGE MEMORIES III.  OLD MORALITY IV.   A COLLEGE
MAGAZINE V.    AN OLD SCOTCH GARDENER VI.   PASTORAL VII.  THE MANSE VIII. MEMORIES OF AN ISLET
IX.   THOMAS STEVENSON X.    TALK AND TALKERS: FIRST PAPER XI.   TALK AND TALKERS: SECOND PAPER
XII.  THE CHARACTER OF DOGS XIII. "A PENNY PLAIN AND TWOPENCE COLOURED" XIV.  A GOSSIP ON A
NOVEL OF DUMAS'S XV.   A GOSSIP ON ROMANCE XVI.  A HUMBLE REMONSTRANCE

CHAPTER I. THE FOREIGNER AT HOME

"This is no my ain house; I ken by the biggin' o't."

Two recent books (1) one by Mr. Grant White on England, one on  France by the diabolically
clever Mr. Hillebrand, may well have set  people thinking on the divisions of races and nations.
Such  thoughts should arise with particular congruity and force to  inhabitants of that United
Kingdom, peopled from so many different  stocks, babbling so many different dialects, and offering
in its  extent such singular contrasts, from the busiest over-population to  the unkindliest
desert, from the Black Country to the Moor of  Rannoch.  It is not only when we cross the seas
that we go abroad;  there are foreign parts of England; and the race that has conquered  so
wide an empire has not yet managed to assimilate the islands  whence she sprang.  Ireland,
Wales, and the Scottish mountains  still cling, in part, to their old Gaelic speech.  It was
but the  other day that English triumphed in Cornwall, and they still show  in Mousehole, on
St. Michael's Bay, the house of the last Cornish- speaking woman.  English itself, which will
now frank the traveller  through the most of North America, through the greater South Sea 
Islands, in India, along much of the coast of Africa, and in the  ports of China and Japan,
is still to be heard, in its home  country, in half a hundred varying stages of transition.
You may  go all over the States, and - setting aside the actual intrusion  and influence of
foreigners, negro, French, or Chinese - you shall  scarce meet with so marked a difference
of accent as in the forty  miles between Edinburgh and Glasgow, or of dialect as in the  hundred
miles between Edinburgh and Aberdeen.  Book English has  gone round the world, but at home
we still preserve the racy idioms  of our fathers, and every county, in some parts every dale,
has its  own quality of speech, vocal or verbal.  In like manner, local  custom and prejudice,
even local religion and local law, linger on  into the latter end of the nineteenth century
- IMPERIA IN IMPERIO,  foreign things at home.

In spite of these promptings to reflection, ignorance of his  neighbours is the character of
the typical John Bull.  His is a  domineering nature, steady in fight, imperious to command,
but  neither curious nor quick about the life of others.  In French  colonies, and still more
in the Dutch, I have read that there is an  immediate and lively contact between the dominant
and the dominated  race, that a certain sympathy is begotten, or at the least a  transfusion
of prejudices, making life easier for both.  But the  Englishman sits apart, bursting with
pride and ignorance.  He  figures among his vassal in the hour of peace with the same  disdainful
air that led him on to victory.  A passing enthusiasm  for some foreign art or fashion may
deceive the world, it cannot  impose upon his intimates.  He may be amused by a foreigner as
by a  monkey, but he will never condescend to study him with any  patience.  Miss Bird, an
authoress with whom I profess myself in  love, declares all the viands of Japan to be uneatable
- a  staggering pretension.  So, when the Prince of Wales's marriage was  celebrated at Mentone
by a dinner to the Mentonese, it was proposed  to give them solid English fare - roast beef
and plum pudding, and  no tomfoolery.  Here we have either pole of the Britannic folly.   We
will not eat the food of any foreigner; nor, when we have the  chance, will we eager him to
eat of it himself.  The same spirit  inspired Miss Bird's American missionaries, who had come
thousands  of miles to change the faith of Japan, and openly professed their  ignorance of
the religions they were trying to supplant.

I quote an American in this connection without scruple.  Uncle Sam  is better than John Bull,
but he is tarred with the English stick.   For Mr. Grant White the States are the New England
States and  nothing more.  He wonders at the amount of drinking in London; let  him try San
Francisco.  He wittily reproves English ignorance as to  the status of women in America; but
has he not himself forgotten  Wyoming?  The name Yankee, of which he is so tenacious, is used
over the most of the great Union as a term of reproach.  The Yankee  States, of which he is
so staunch a subject, are but a drop in the  bucket.  And we find in his book a vast virgin
ignorance of the  life and prospects of America; every view partial, parochial, not  raised
to the horizon; the moral feeling proper, at the largest, to  a clique of states; and the whole
scope and atmosphere not  American, but merely Yankee.  I will go far beyond him in  reprobating
the assumption and the incivility of my countryfolk to  their cousins from beyond the sea;
I grill in my blood over the  silly rudeness of our newspaper articles; and I do not know where
to look when I find myself in company with an American and see my  countrymen unbending to
him as to a performing dog.  But in the  case of Mr. Grant White example were better than precept.
Wyoming  is, after all, more readily accessible to Mr. White than Boston to  the English, and
the New England self-sufficiency no better  justified than the Britannic.

