"For whom do you take us, fair son?" said the elder stranger, in answer to this question.

"For substantial burgesses, unquestionably," said the youth; "or--hold; you, master, may be
a money broker, or a corn merchant; and this man a butcher, or grazier."

"You have hit our capacities rarely," said the elder, smiling. "My business is indeed to trade
in as much money as I can and my gossip's dealings are somewhat of kin to the butcher's. As
to your accommodation we will try to serve you; but I must first know who you are, and whither
you are going, for, in these times, the roads are filled with travellers on foot and horseback,
who have anything in their head but honesty and the fear of God."

The young man cast another keen and penetrating glance on him who spoke, and on his silent
companion, as if doubtful whether they, on their part, merited the confidence they demanded;
and the result of his observation was as follows.

The eldest and most remarkable of these men in dress and appearance, resembled the merchant
or shopkeeper of the period. His jerkin, hose, and cloak were of a dark uniform colour, but
worn so threadbare that the acute young Scot conceived that the wearer must be either very
rich or very poor, probably the former. The fashion of the dress was close and short, a kind
of garment which was not then held decorous among gentry, or even the superior class of citizens,
who generally wore loose gowns which descended below the middle of the leg.

The expression of this man's countenance was partly attractive and partly forbidding. His strong
features, sunk cheeks, and hollow eyes had, nevertheless, an expression of shrewdness and humour
congenial to the character of the young adventurer. But then, those same sunken eyes, from
under the shroud of thick black eyebrows, had something in them that was at once commanding
and sinister. Perhaps this effect was increased by the low fur cap, much depressed on the forehead,
and adding to the shade from under which those eyes peered out; but it is certain that the
young stranger had some difficulty to reconcile his looks with the meanness of his appearance
in other respects. His cap, in particular, in which all men of any quality displayed either
a brooch of gold or of silver, was ornamented with a paltry image of the Virgin, in lead, such
as the poorer sort of pilgrims bring from Loretto [a city in Italy, containing the sanctuary
of the Virgin Mary called the Santa Casa, reputed to have been brought there by angels.].

His comrade was a stout formed, middle sized man, more than ten years younger than his companion,
with a down looking visage and a very ominous smile, when by chance he gave way to that impulse,
which was never, except in reply to certain secret signs that seemed to pass between him and
the elder stranger. This man was armed with a sword and dagger; and underneath his plain habit
the Scotsman observed that he concealed a jazeran, or flexible shirt of linked mail, which,
as being often worn by those, even of peaceful professions, who were called upon at that perilous
period to be frequently abroad, confirmed the young man in his conjecture that the wearer was
by profession a butcher, grazier, or something of that description, called upon to be much
abroad. The young stranger, comprehending in one glance the result of the observation which
has taken us some time to express, answered, after a moment's pause, "I am ignorant whom I
may have the honour to address," making a slight reverence at the same time, "but I am indifferent
who knows that I am a cadet of Scotland; and that I come to seek my fortune in France, or elsewhere,
after the custom of my countrymen."

"Pasques dieu! and a gallant custom it is," said the elder stranger. "You seem a fine young
springald, and at the right age to prosper, whether among men or women. What say you? I am
a merchant, and want a lad to assist in my traffic; I suppose you are too much a gentleman
to assist in such mechanical drudgery?"

"Fair sir," said the youth, "if your offer be seriously made--of which I have my doubts--I
am bound to thank you for it, and I thank you accordingly; but I fear I should be altogether
unfit for your service."

"What!" said the senior, "I warrant thou knowest better how to draw the bow, than how to draw
a bill of charges--canst handle a broadsword better than a pen--ha!"

"I am, master," answered the young Scot, "a braeman, and therefore, as we say, a bowman. But
besides that, I have been in a convent, where the good fathers taught me to read and write,
and even to cipher."

"Pasques dieu! that is too magnificent," said the merchant. "By our Lady of Embrun [a town
in France containing a cathedral in which was a wooden statue of the Virgin Mary, said to have
been sculptured by St. Luke], thou art a prodigy, man!"

"Rest you merry, fair master," said the youth, who was not much pleased with his new acquaintance's
jocularity, "I must go dry myself, instead of standing dripping here, answering questions."

The merchant only laughed louder as he spoke, and answered, "Pasques dieu! the proverb never
fails--fier comme un Ecossois [proud or haughty as a Scotchman]--but come, youngster, you are
of a country I have a regard for, having traded in Scotland in my time--an honest poor set
of folks they are; and, if you will come with us to the village, I will bestow on you a cup
of burnt sack and a warm breakfast, to atone for your drenching.--But tete bleau! what do you
with a hunting glove on your hand? Know you not there is no hawking permitted in a royal chase?"

"I was taught that lesson," answered the youth, "by a rascally forester of the Duke of Burgundy.
I did but fly the falcon I had brought with me from Scotland, and that I reckoned on for bringing
me into some note, at a heron near Peronne, and the rascally schelm [rogue, rascal (obsolete
or Scotch)] shot my bird with an arrow."

"What did you do?" said the merchant.

"Beat him," said the youngster, brandishing his staff, "as near to death as one Christian man
should belabour another--I wanted not to have his blood to answer for."

"Know you," said the burgess, "that had you fallen into the Duke of Burgundy's hands, he would
have hung you up like a chestnut?"

"Ay, I am told he is as prompt as the King of France for that sort of work. But, as this happened
near Peronne, I made a leap over the frontiers, and laughed at him. If he had not been so hasty,
I might, perhaps, have taken service with him."

"He will have a heavy miss of such a paladin as you are, if the truce should break off," said
the merchant, and threw a look at his own companion, who answered him with one of the downcast
lowering smiles which gleamed along his countenance, enlivening it as a passing meteor enlivens
a winter sky.

The young Scot suddenly stopped, pulled his bonnet over his right eyebrow, as one that would
not be ridiculed, and said firmly, "My masters, and especially you, sir, the elder, and who
should be the wiser, you will find, I presume, no sound or safe jesting at my expense. I do
not altogether like the tone of your conversation. I can take a jest with any man, and a rebuke,
too, from my elder, and say thank you, sir, if I know it to be deserved; but I do not like
being borne in hand as if I were a child, when, God wot, I find myself man enough to belabour
you both, if you provoke me too far."

The eldest man seemed like to choke with laughter at the lad's demeanour--his companion's hand
stole to his sword hilt, which the youth observing, dealt him a blow across the wrist, which
made him incapable of grasping it, while his companion's mirth was only increased by the incident.

"Hold, hold," he cried, "most doughty Scot, even for thine own dear country's sake, and you,
gossip, forbear your menacing look. Pasques-dieu! let us be just traders, and set off the wetting
against the knock on the wrist, which was given with so much grace and alacrity.--And hark
ye, my young friend," he said to the young man, with a grave sternness which, in spite of all
the youth could do, damped and overawed him, "no more violence. I am no fit object for it,
and my gossip, as you may see, has had enough of it. Let me know your name."

"I can answer a civil question civilly," said the youth; "and will pay fitting respect to your
age, if you do not urge my patience with mockery. Since I have been here in France and Flanders,
men have called me, in their fantasy, the Varlet with the Velvet Pouch, because of this hawk
purse which I carry by my side; but my true name, when at home, is Quentin Durward."

"Durward!" said the querist; "is it a gentleman's name?"

"By fifteen descents in our family," said the young man; "and that makes me reluctant to follow
any other trade than arms."

"A true Scot! Plenty of blood, plenty of pride, and right great scarcity of ducats, I warrant
thee.--Well, gossip," he said to his companion, "go before us, and tell them to have some breakfast
ready yonder at the Mulberry grove; for this youth will do as much honour to it as a starved
mouse to a housewife's cheese. And for the Bohemian--hark in thy ear."

His comrade answered by a gloomy but intelligent smile, and set forward at a round pace, while
the elder man continued, addressing young Durward, "You and I will walk leisurely forward together,
and we may take a mass at Saint Hubert's Chapel in our way through the forest; for it is not
good to think of our fleshly before our spiritual wants."

[This silvan saint... was passionately fond of the chase, and used to neglect attendance on
divine worship for this amusement. While he was once engaged in this pastime, a stag appeared
before him, having a crucifix bound betwixt his horns, and he heard a voice which menaced him
with eternal punishment if he did not repent of his sins. He retired from the world and took
orders... Hubert afterwards became Bishop of Maestrecht and Liege. S.]

Durward, as a good Catholic, had nothing to object against this proposal, although he might
probably have been desirous, in the first place; to have dried his clothes and refreshed himself.
Meanwhile, they soon lost sight of their downward looking companion, but continued to follow
the same path which he had taken, until it led them into a wood of tall trees, mixed with thickets
and brushwood, traversed by long avenues, through which were seen, as through a vista, the
deer trotting in little herds with a degree of security which argued their consciousness of
being completely protected.

"You asked me if I were a good bowman," said the young Scot. "Give me a bow and a brace of
shafts, and you shall have a piece of venison in a moment."

"Pasques dieu! my young friend," said his companion, "take care of that; my gossip yonder hath
a special eye to the deer; they are under his charge, and he is a strict keeper."

"He hath more the air of a butcher than of a gay forester," answered Durward. "I cannot think
yon hang dog look of his belongs to any one who knows the gentle rules of woodcraft."

"Ah, my young friend," answered his companion, "my gossip hath somewhat an ugly favour to look
upon at the first; but those who become acquainted with him never are known to complain of him."

Quentin Durward found something singularly and disagreeably significant in the tone with which
this was spoken; and, looking suddenly at the speaker, thought he saw in his countenance, in
the slight smile that curled his upper lip, and the accompanying twinkle of his keen dark eye,
something to justify his unpleasing surprise. "I have heard of robbers," he thought to himself,
"and of wily cheats and cutthroats--what if yonder fellow be a murderer, and this old rascal
his decoy duck! I will be on my guard--they will get little by me but good Scottish knocks."

While he was thus reflecting, they came to a glade, where the large forest trees were more
widely separated from each other, and where the ground beneath, cleared of underwood and bushes,
was clothed with a carpet of the softest and most lovely verdure, which, screened from the
scorching heat of the sun, was here more beautifully tender than it is usually to be seen in
France. The trees in this secluded spot were chiefly beeches and elms of huge magnitude, which
rose like great hills of leaves into the air. Amidst these magnificent sons of the earth there
peeped out, in the most open spot of the glade, a lowly chapel, near which trickled a small
rivulet. Its architecture was of the rudest and most simple kind; and there was a very small
lodge beside it, for the accommodation of a hermit or solitary priest, who remained there for
regularly discharging the duty of the altar. In a small niche over the arched doorway stood
a stone image of Saint Hubert, with the bugle horn around his neck, and a leash of greyhounds
at his feet. The situation of the chapel in the midst of a park or chase, so richly stocked
with game, made the dedication to the Sainted Huntsman peculiarly appropriate.

Towards this little devotional structure the old man directed his steps, followed by young
Durward; and, as they approached, the priest, dressed in his sacerdotal garments, made his
appearance in the act of proceeding from his cell to the chapel, for the discharge, doubtless,
of his holy office. Durward bowed his body reverently to the priest, as the respect due to
his sacred office demanded; whilst his companion, with an appearance of still more deep devotion,
kneeled on one knee to receive the holy man's blessing, and then followed him into church,
with a step and manner expressive of the most heartfelt contrition and humility.

The inside of the chapel was adorned in a manner adapted to the occupation of the patron saint
while on earth. The richest furs of such animals as are made the objects of the chase in different
countries supplied the place of tapestry and hangings around the altar and elsewhere, and the
characteristic emblazonments of bugles, bows, quivers, and other emblems of hunting, surrounded
the walls, and were mingled with the heads of deer, wolves, and other animals considered beasts
of sport. The whole adornments took an appropriate and silvan character; and the mass itself,
being considerably shortened, proved to be of that sort which is called a hunting mass, because
in use before the noble and powerful, who, while assisting at the solemnity, are usually impatient
to commence their favourite sport.

Yet, during this brief ceremony, Durward's companion seemed to pay the most rigid and scrupulous
attention; while Durward, not quite so much occupied with religious thoughts, could not forbear
blaming himself in his own mind for having entertained suspicions derogatory to the character
of so good and so humble a man. Far from now holding him as a companion and accomplice of robbers,
he had much to do to forbear regarding him as a saint-like personage.

When mass was ended, they retired together from the chapel, and the elder said to his young
comrade, "It is but a short walk from hence to the village--you may now break your fast with
an unprejudiced conscience--follow me."

Turning to the right, and proceeding along a path which seemed gradually to ascend, he recommended
to his companion by no means to quit the track, but, on the contrary, to keep the middle of
it as nearly as he could. Durward could not help asking the cause of this precaution.

"You are now near the Court, young man," answered his guide; "and, Pasques-dieu! there is some
difference betwixt walking in this region and on your own heathy hills. Every yard of this
ground, excepting the path which we now occupy, is rendered dangerous, and well nigh impracticable,
by snares and traps, armed with scythe blades, which shred off the unwary passenger's limb
as sheerly as a hedge bill lops a hawthorn sprig--and calthrops that would pierce your foot
through, and pitfalls deep enough to bury you in them for ever; for you are now within the
precincts of the royal demesne, and we shall presently see the front of the Chateau."

"Were I the King of France," said the young man, "I would not take so much trouble with traps
and gins, but would try instead to govern so well that no man should dare to come near my dwelling
with a bad intent; and for those who came there in peace and goodwill, why, the more of them
the merrier we should be."

His companion looked round affecting an alarmed gaze, and said, "Hush, hush, Sir Varlet with
the Velvet Pouch! for I forgot to tell you, that one great danger of these precincts is, that
the very leaves of the trees are like so many ears, which carry all which is spoken to the
King's own cabinet."

"I care little for that," answered Quentin Durward; "I bear a Scottish tongue in my head, bold
enough to speak my mind to King Louis's face, God bless him--and for the ears you talk of,
if I could see them growing on a human head, I would crop them out of it with my wood knife."

CHAPTER III: THE CASTLE

     Full in the midst a mighty pile arose,
     Where iron grated gates their strength oppose
     To each invading step--and strong and steep,
     The battled walls arose, the fosse sunk deep.
     Slow round the fortress roll'd the sluggish stream,
     And high in middle air the warder's turrets gleam.

     ANONYMOUS

While Durward and his acquaintance thus spoke, they came in sight of the whole front of the
Castle of Plessis les Tours, which, even in those dangerous times, when the great found themselves
obliged to reside within places of fortified strength, was distinguished for the extreme and
jealous care with which it was watched and defended.

From the verge of the wood where young Durward halted with his companion, in order to take
a view of this royal residence, extended, or rather arose, though by a very gentle elevation,
an open esplanade, devoid of trees and bushes of every description, excepting one gigantic
and half withered old oak. This space was left open, according to the rules of fortification
in all ages, in order that an enemy might not approach the walls under cover, or unobserved
from the battlements, and beyond it arose the Castle itself.

There were three external walls, battlemented and turreted from space to space and at each
angle, the second enclosure rising higher than the first, and being built so as to command
the exterior defence in case it was won by the enemy; and being again, in the same manner,
itself commanded by the third and innermost barrier.

Around the external wall, as the Frenchman informed his young companion (for as they stood
lower than the foundation of the wall, he could not see it), was sunk a ditch of about twenty
feet in depth, supplied with water by a dam head on the river Cher; or rather on one of its
tributary branches. In front of the second enclosure, he said, there ran another fosse, and
a third, both of the same unusual dimensions, was led between the second and the innermost
inclosure. The verge, both of the outer and inner circuit of this triple moat was strongly
fenced with palisades of iron, serving the purpose of what are called chevaux de frise in modern
fortification, the top of each pale being divided into a cluster of sharp spikes, which seemed
to render any attempt to climb over an act of self destruction.

From within the innermost enclosure arose the Castle itself, containing buildings of all periods,
crowded around, and united with the ancient and grim looking donjon keep, which was older than
any of them, and which rose, like a black Ethiopian giant, high into the air, while the absence
of any windows larger than shot holes, irregularly disposed for defence, gave the spectator
the same unpleasant feeling which we experience on looking at a blind man. The other buildings
seemed scarcely better adapted for the purposes of comfort, for the windows opened to an inner
and enclosed courtyard; so that the whole external front looked much more like that of a prison
than a palace. The reigning King had even increased this effect; for, desirous that the additions
which he himself had made to the fortifications should be of a character not easily distinguished
from the original building (for, like many jealous persons, he loved not that his suspicions
should be observed), the darkest coloured brick and freestone were employed, and soot mingled
with the lime, so as to give the whole Castle the same uniform tinge of extreme and rude antiquity.

This formidable place had but one entrance--at least Durward saw none along the spacious front,
except where, in the centre of the first and outward boundary, arose two strong towers, the
usual defences of a gateway; and he could observe their ordinary accompaniments, portcullis
and drawbridge--of which the first was lowered, and the last raised. Similar entrance towers
were visible on the second and third bounding wall, but not in the same line with those on
the outward circuit; because the passage did not cut right through the whole three enclosures
at the same point, but, on the contrary, those who entered had to proceed nearly thirty yards
betwixt the first and second wall, exposed, if their purpose were hostile, to missiles from
both; and again, when the second boundary was passed, they must make a similar digression from
the straight line, in order to attain the portal of the third and innermost enclosure; so that
before gaining the outer court, which ran along the front of the building, two narrow and dangerous
defiles were to be traversed under a flanking discharge of artillery, and three gates, defended
in the strongest manner known to the age, were to be successively forced.

Coming from a country alike desolated by foreign war and internal feuds--a country, too, whose
unequal and mountainous surface, abounding in precipices and torrents, affords so many situations
of strength, young Durward was sufficiently acquainted with all the various contrivances by
which men, in that stern age, endeavoured to secure their dwellings; but he frankly owned to
his companion, that he did not think it had been in the power of art to do so much for defence,
where nature had done so little; for the situation, as we have hinted, was merely the summit
of a gentle elevation ascending upwards from the place where they were standing.

To enhance his surprise, his companion told him that the environs of the Castle, except the
single winding path by which the portal might be safely approached, were, like the thickets
through which they had passed, surrounded with every species of hidden pitfall, snare, and
gin, to entrap the wretch who should venture thither without a guide; that upon the walls were
constructed certain cradles of iron, called swallows' nests, from which the sentinels, who
were regularly posted there, could without being exposed to any risk, take deliberate aim at
any who should attempt to enter without the proper signal or password of the day; and that
the Archers of the Royal Guard performed that duty day and night, for which they received high
pay, rich clothing, and much honour and profit at the hands of King Louis. "And now tell me,
young man," he continued, "did you ever see so strong a fortress, and do you think there are
men bold enough to storm it?"

The young man looked long and fixedly on the place, the sight of which interested him so much
that he had forgotten, in the eagerness of youthful curiosity, the wetness of his dress. His
eye glanced, and his colour mounted to his cheek like that of a daring man who meditates an
honourable action, as he replied, "It is a strong castle, and strongly guarded; but there is
no impossibility to brave men."

"Are there any in your country who could do such a feat?" said the elder, rather scornfully.

"I will not affirm that," answered the youth; "but there are thousands that, in a good cause,
would attempt as bold a deed."

"Umph!" said the senior, "perhaps you are yourself such a gallant!"

"I should sin if I were to boast where there is no danger," answered young Durward; "but my
father has done as bold an act, and I trust I am no bastard."

"Well," said his companion, smiling, "you might meet your match, and your kindred withal in
the attempt; for the Scottish Archers of King Louis's Life Guards stand sentinels on yonder
walls--three hundred gentlemen of the best blood in your country."

"And were I King Louis," said the youth, in reply, "I would trust my safety to the faith of
the three hundred Scottish gentlemen, throw down my bounding walls to fill up the moat; call
in my noble peers and paladins, and live as became me, amid breaking of lances in gallant tournaments,
and feasting of days with nobles, and dancing of nights with ladies, and have no more fear
of a foe than I have of a fly."

His companion again smiled, and turning his back on the Castle, which, he observed, they had
approached a little too nearly, he led the way again into the wood by a more broad and beaten
path than they had yet trodden. "This," he said, "leads us to the village of Plessis, as it
is called, where you, as a stranger, will find reasonable and honest accommodation. About two
miles onward lies the fine city of Tours, which gives name to this rich and beautiful earldom.
But the village of Plessis, or Plessis of the Park as it is sometimes called, from its vicinity
to the royal residence, and the chase with which it is encircled, will yield you nearer and
as convenient hospitality."

"I thank you, kind master, for your information," said the Scot; "but my stay will be so short
here, that, if I fail not in a morsel of meat, and a drink of something better than water,
my necessities in Plessis, be it of the park or the pool, will be amply satisfied."

"Nay," answered his companion, "I thought you had some friend to see in this quarter."

"And so I have--my mother's own brother," answered Durward; "and as pretty a man, before he
left the braes of Angus [hills and moors of Angus in Forfarshire, Scotland.], as ever planted
brogue on heather."

"What is his name?" said the senior. "We will inquire him out for you; for it is not safe for
you to go up to the Castle, where you might be taken for a spy."

"Now, by my father's hand!" said the youth, "I taken for a spy!--By Heaven, he shall brook
cold iron that brands me with such a charge!--But for my uncle's name, I care not who knows
it--it is Lesly. Lesly--an honest and noble name."

"And so it is, I doubt not," said the old man; "but there are three of the name in the Scottish
Guard."

"My uncle's name is Ludovic Lesly," said the young man.

"Of the three Leslys," answered the merchant, "two are called Ludovic."

"They call my kinsman Ludovic with the Scar," said Quentin. "Our family names are so common
in a Scottish house, that, where there is no land in the case, we always give a to-name [surname]."

"A nom de guerre [the war name; formerly taken by French soldiers on entering the service.
Hence a fictitious name assumed for other purposes.], I suppose you to mean," answered his
companion; "and the man you speak of, we, I think, call Le Balafre, from that scar on his face--a
proper man, and a good soldier. I wish I may be able to help you to an interview with him,
for he belongs to a set of gentlemen whose duty is strict, and who do not often come out of
garrison, unless in the immediate attendance on the King's person.--And now, young man, answer
me one question. I will wager you are desirous to take service with your uncle in the Scottish
Guard. It is a great thing, if you propose so; especially as you are very young, and some years'
experience is necessary for the high office which you aim at."

"Perhaps I may have thought on some such thing," said Durward, carelessly; "but if I did, the
fancy is off."

"How so, young man?" said the Frenchman, something sternly, "Do you speak thus of a charge
which the most noble of your countrymen feel themselves emulous to be admitted to?"

"I wish them joy of it," said Quentin, composedly. "To speak plain, I should have liked the
service of the French King full well; only, dress me as fine and feed me as high as you will,
I love the open air better than being shut up in a cage or a swallow's nest yonder, as you
call these same grated pepper boxes. Besides," he added, in a lower voice, "to speak truth,
I love not the Castle when the covin tree bears such acorns as I see yonder."

[The large tree in front of a Scottish castle was sometimes called so. It is difficult to trace
the derivation; but at that distance from the castle the laird received guests of rank, and
thither he conveyed them on their departure. S.]

"I guess what you mean," said the Frenchman; "but speak yet more plainly."

"To speak more plainly, then," said the youth, "there grows a fair oak some flight shot or
so from yonder Castle--and on that oak hangs a man in a gray jerkin, such as this which I wear."

"Ay and indeed!" said the man of France--"Pasques dieu! see what it is to have youthful eyes!
Why, I did see something, but only took it for a raven among the branches. But the sight is
no ways strange, young man; when the summer fades into autumn, and moonlight nights are long,
and roads become unsafe, you will see a cluster of ten, ay of twenty such acorns, hanging on
that old doddered oak.--But what then?--they are so many banners displayed to scare knaves;
and for each rogue that hangs there, an honest man may reckon that there is a thief, a traitor,
a robber on the highway, a pilleur and oppressor of the people the fewer in France. These,
young man, are signs of our Sovereign's justice."

"I would have hung them farther from my palace, though, were I King Louis," said the youth.
"In my country, we hang up dead corbies where living corbies haunt, but not in our gardens
or pigeon houses. The very scent of the carrion--faugh--reached my nostrils at the distance
where we stood."

"If you live to be an honest and loyal servant of your Prince, my good youth," answered the
Frenchman, "you will know there is no perfume to match the scent of a dead traitor."

"I shall never wish to live till I lose the scent of my nostrils or the sight of my eyes,"
said the Scot. "Show me a living traitor, and here are my hand and my weapon; but when life
is out, hatred should not live longer.--But here, I fancy, we come upon the village, where
I hope to show you that neither ducking nor disgust have spoiled mine appetite for my breakfast.
So my good friend, to the hostelrie, with all the speed you may.--Yet, ere I accept of your
hospitality, let me know by what name to call you."

"Men call me Maitre Pierre," answered his companion. "I deal in no titles. A plain man, that
can live on mine own good--that is my designation."

"So be it, Maitre Pierre," said Quentin, "and I am happy my good chance has thrown us together;
for I want a word of seasonable advice, and can be thankful for it."

While they spoke thus, the tower of the church and a tall wooden crucifix, rising above the
trees, showed that they were at the entrance of the village.

But Maitre Pierre, deflecting a little from the road, which had now joined an open and public
causeway, said to his companion that the inn to which he intended to introduce him stood somewhat
secluded, and received only the better sort of travellers.

"If you mean those who travel with the better filled purses," answered the Scot, "I am none
of the number, and will rather stand my chance of your flayers on the highway, than of your
flayers in the hostelrie."

"Pasques dieu!" said his guide, "how cautious your countrymen of Scotland are! An Englishman,
now, throws himself headlong into a tavern, eats and drinks of the best, and never thinks of
the reckoning till his belly is full. But you forget, Master Quentin, since Quentin is your
name, you forget I owe you a breakfast for the wetting which my mistake procured you.--It is
the penance of my offence towards you."

"In truth," said the light hearted young man, "I had forgot wetting, offence, and penance,
and all. I have walked my clothes dry, or nearly so, but I will not refuse your offer in kindness;
for my dinner yesterday was a light one, and supper I had none. You seem an old and respectable
burgess, and I see no reason why I should not accept your courtesy."

The Frenchman smiled aside, for he saw plainly that the youth, while he was probably half famished,
had yet some difficulty to reconcile himself to the thoughts of feeding at a stranger's cost,
and was endeavouring to subdue his inward pride by the reflection, that, in such slight obligations,
the acceptor performed as complaisant a part as he by whom the courtesy was offered.

In the meanwhile, they descended a narrow lane, overshadowed by tall elms, at the bottom of
which a gateway admitted them into the courtyard of an inn of unusual magnitude, calculated
for the accommodation of the nobles and suitors who had business at the neighbouring Castle,
where very seldom, and only when such hospitality was altogether unavoidable, did Louis XI
permit any of his court to have apartments. A scutcheon, bearing the fleur de lys, hung over
the principal door of the large irregular building; but there was about the yard and the offices
little or none of the bustle which in those days, when attendants were maintained both in public
and in private houses, marked that business was alive, and custom plenty. It seemed as if the
stern and unsocial character of the royal mansion in the neighbourhood had communicated a portion
of its solemn and terrific gloom even to a place designed according to universal custom elsewhere,
for the temple of social indulgence, merry society, and good cheer.

Maitre Pierre, without calling any one, and even without approaching the principal entrance,
lifted the latch of a side door, and led the way into a large room, where a faggot was blazing
on the hearth, and arrangements made for a substantial breakfast.

"My gossip has been careful," said the Frenchman to the Scot. "You must be cold, and I have
commanded a fire; you must be hungry, and you shall have breakfast presently."

He whistled and the landlord entered--answered Maitre Pierre's bon jour with a reverence--but
in no respect showed any part of the prating humour properly belonging to a French publican
of all ages.

"I expected a gentleman," said Maitre Pierre, "to order breakfast--hath he done so?"

In answer the landlord only bowed; and while he continued to bring, and arrange upon the table,
the various articles of a comfortable meal, omitted to extol their merits by a single word.
And yet the breakfast merited such eulogiums as French hosts are wont to confer upon their
regales, as the reader will be informed in the next chapter.

CHAPTER IV: THE DEJEUNER

     Sacred heaven! what masticators! what bread!

     YORICK'S TRAVELS

We left our young stranger in France situated more comfortably than he had found himself since
entering the territories of the ancient Gauls. The breakfast, as we hinted in the conclusion
of the last chapter, was admirable. There was a pate de Perigord, over which a gastronome would
have wished to live and die, like Homer's lotus eaters [see the Odyssey, chap. ix, where Odysseus
arrives at the land of the Lotus eaters: "whosoever of them ate the lotus's honeyed fruit resolved
to bring tidings back no more and never to leave the place, but with the Lotus eaters there
desired to stay, to feed on lotus and forget his going home." Palmer's Translation.], forgetful
of kin, native country, and all social obligations whatever. Its vast walls of magnificent
crust seemed raised like the bulwarks of some rich metropolitan city, an emblem of the wealth
which they are designed to protect. There was a delicate ragout, with just that petit point
de l'ail [a little flavor of garlic. The French is ungrammatical.] which Gascons love, and
Scottishmen do not hate. There was, besides, a delicate ham, which had once supported a noble
wild boar in the neighbouring wood of Mountrichart. There was the most exquisite white bread,
made into little round loaves called boules (whence the bakers took their French name of boulangers),
of which the crust was so inviting, that, even with water alone, it would have been a delicacy.
But the water was not alone, for there was a flask of leather called bottrine, which contained
about a quart of exquisite Vin de Beaulne. So many good things might have created appetite
under the ribs of death. What effect, then, must they have produced upon a youngster of scarce
twenty, who (for the truth must be told) had eaten little for the two last days, save the scarcely
ripe fruit which chance afforded him an opportunity of plucking, and a very moderate portion
of barley bread? He threw himself upon the ragout, and the plate was presently vacant--he attacked
the mighty pasty, marched deep into the bowels of the land, and seasoning his enormous meal
with an occasional cup of wine, returned to the charge again and again, to the astonishment
of mine host, and the amusement of Maitre Pierre.

The latter indeed, probably because he found himself the author of a kinder action than he
had thought of, seemed delighted with the appetite of the young Scot; and when, at length,
he observed that his exertions began to languish, endeavoured to stimulate him to new efforts
by ordering confections, darioles [cream cakes], and any other light dainties he could think
of, to entice the youth to continue his meal. While thus engaged, Maitre Pierre's countenance
expressed a kind of good humour almost amounting to benevolence, which appeared remote from
its ordinary sharp, caustic, and severe character. The aged almost always sympathize with the
enjoyments of youth and with its exertions of every kind, when the mind of the spectator rests
on its natural poise and is not disturbed by inward envy or idle emulation.

Quentin Durward also, while thus agreeably employed, could do no otherwise than discover that
the countenance of his entertainer, which he had at first found so unprepossessing, mended
when it was seen under the influence of the Vin de Beaulne, and there was kindness in the tone
with which he reproached Maitre Pierre, that he amused himself with laughing at his appetite,
without eating anything himself.

"I am doing penance," said Maitre Pierre, "and may not eat anything before noon, save some
comfiture and a cup of water.--Bid yonder lady," he added, turning to the innkeeper, "bring
them hither to me."

The innkeeper left the room, and Maitre Pierre proceeded, "Well, have I kept faith with you
concerning the breakfast I promised you?"

"The best meal I have eaten," said the youth, "since I left Glen Houlakin."

"Glen--what?" demanded Maitre Pierre. "Are you going to raise the devil, that you use such
long tailed words?"

"Glen Houlakin," answered Quentin good humouredly, "which is to say the Glen of the Midges,
is the name of our ancient patrimony, my good sir. You have bought the right to laugh at the
sound, if you please."

"I have not the least intention to offend," said the old man; "but I was about to say, since
you like your present meal so well, that the Scottish Archers of the guard eat as good a one,
or a better, every day."

"No wonder," said Durward; "for if they be shut up in the swallows' nests all night, they must
needs have a curious appetite in the morning."

"And plenty to gratify it upon," said Maitre Pierre. "They need not, like the Burgundians,
choose a bare back, that they may have a full belly--they dress like counts, and feast like
abbots."

"It is well for them," said Durward.

"And wherefore will you not take service here, young man? Your uncle might, I dare say, have
you placed on the file when there should a vacancy occur. And, hark in your ear, I myself have
some little interest, and might be of some use to you. You can ride, I presume, as well as
draw the bow?"

"Our race are as good horsemen as ever put a plated shoe into a steel stirrup; and I know not
but I might accept of your kind offer. Yet, look you, food and raiment are needful things,
but, in my case, men think of honour, and advancement, and brave deeds of arms. Your King Louis--God
bless him, for he is a friend and ally of Scotland--but he lies here in this castle, or only
rides about from one fortified town to another; and gains cities and provinces by politic embassies,
and not in fair fighting. Now, for me, I am of the Douglases' mind, who always kept the fields,
because they loved better to hear the lark sing than the mouse squeak."

"Young man," said Maitre Pierre, "do not judge too rashly of the actions of sovereigns. Louis
seeks to spare the blood of his subjects, and cares not for his own. He showed himself a man
of courage at Montl'hery."

"Ay, but that was some dozen years ago or more," answered the youth--"I should like to follow
a master that would keep his honour as bright as his shield, and always venture foremost in
the very throng of the battle."

"Why did you not tarry at Brussels, then, with the Duke of Burgundy? He would put you in the
way to have your bones broken every day; and, rather than fail, would do the job for you himself--especially
if he heard that you had beaten his forester."

"Very true," said Quentin; "my unhappy chance has shut that door against me."

"Nay, there are plenty of daredevils abroad, with whom mad youngsters may find service," said
his adviser. "What think you, for example, of William de la Marck?"

"What!" exclaimed Durward, "serve Him with the Beard--serve the Wild Boar of Ardennes--a captain
of pillagers and murderers, who would take a man's life for the value of his gaberdine, and
who slays priests and pilgrims as if they were so many lance knights and men at arms? It would
be a blot on my father's scutcheon for ever."

"Well, my young hot blood," replied Maitre Pierre, "if you hold the Sanglier [Wild Boar] too
unscrupulous, wherefore not follow the young Duke of Gueldres?"

[Adolphus, son of Arnold and of Catherine de Bourbon.... He made war against his father; in
which unnatural strife he made the old man prisoner, and used him with the most brutal violence,
proceeding, it is said, even to the length of striking him with his hand. Arnold, in resentment
of this usage, disinherited the unprincipled wretch, and sold to Charles of Burgundy whatever
rights he had over the duchy of Gueldres and earldom of Zutphen.... S.]

"Follow the foul fiend as soon," said Quentin. "Hark in your ear--he is a burden too heavy
for earth to carry--hell gapes for him! Men say that he keeps his own father imprisoned, and
that he has even struck him--can you believe it?"

Maitre Pierre seemed somewhat disconcerted with the naive horror with which the young Scotsman
spoke of filial ingratitude, and he answered, "You know not, young man, how short a while the
relations of blood subsist amongst those of elevated rank;" then changed the tone of feeling
in which he had begun to speak, and added, gaily, "besides, if the Duke has beaten his father,
I warrant you his father hath beaten him of old, so it is but a clearing of scores."

"I marvel to hear you speak thus," said the Scot, colouring with indignation; "gray hairs such
as yours ought to have fitter subjects for jesting. If the old Duke did beat his son in childhood,
he beat him not enough; for better he had died under the rod, than have lived to make the Christian
world ashamed that such a monster had ever been baptized."

"At this rate," said Maitre Pierre, "as you weigh the characters of each prince and leader,
I think you had better become a captain yourself; for where will one so wise find a chieftain
fit to command him?"

"You laugh at me, Maitre Pierre," said the youth, good humouredly, "and perhaps you are right;
but you have not named a man who is a gallant leader, and keeps a brave party up here, under
whom a man might seek service well enough."

"I cannot guess whom you mean."

"Why, he that hangs like Mahomet's coffin [there is a tradition that Mahomet's coffin is suspended
in mid air Without any support, the most generally accepted explanation being that the coffin
is of iron and is placed between two magnets] (a curse be upon Mahomet!) between the two loadstones--he
that no man can call either French or Burgundian, but who knows to hold the balance between
them both, and makes both of them fear and serve him, for as great princes as they be."

"I cannot guess whom you mean," said Maitre Pierre, thoughtfully.

"Why, whom should I mean but the noble Louis de Luxembourg, Count of Saint Paul, the High Constable
of France? Yonder he makes his place good with his gallant little army, holding his head as
high as either King Louis or Duke Charles, and balancing between them like the boy who stands
on the midst of a plank, while two others are swinging on the opposite ends."

[This part of Louis XI's reign was much embarrassed by the intrigues of the Constable Saint
Paul, who affected independence, and carried on intrigues with England, France, and Burgundy
at the same time. According to the usual fate of such variable politicians, the Constable ended
by drawing upon himself the animosity of all the powerful neighbours whom he had in their turn
amused and deceived. He was delivered up by the Duke of Burgundy to the King of France, tried,
and hastily executed for treason, A. D. 1475. S.]

"He is in danger of the worst fall of the three," said Maitre Pierre. "And hark ye, my young
friend, you who hold pillaging such a crime, do you know that your politic Count of Saint Paul
was the first who set the example of burning the country during the time of war? and that before
the shameful devastation which he committed, open towns and villages, which made no resistance,
were spared on all sides?"

"Nay, faith," said Durward, "if that be the case, I shall begin to think no one of these great
men is much better than another, and that a choice among them is but like choosing a tree to
be hung upon. But this Count de Saint Paul, this Constable, hath possessed himself by clean
conveyance of the town which takes its name from my honoured saint and patron, Saint Quentin"
[it was by his possession of this town of Saint Quentin that the Constable was able to carry
on those political intrigues which finally cost him so dear. S.] (here he crossed himself),
"and methinks were I dwelling there, my holy patron would keep some look out for me--he has
not so many named after him as your more popular saints--and yet he must have forgotten me,
poor Quentin Durward, his spiritual godson, since he lets me go one day without food, and leaves
me the next morning to the harbourage of Saint Julian, and the chance courtesy of a stranger,
purchased by a ducking in the renowned river Cher, or one of its tributaries."

"Blaspheme not the saints, my young friend," said Maitre Pierre. "Saint Julian is the faithful
patron of travellers; and, peradventure, the blessed Saint Quentin hath done more and better
for thee than thou art aware of."

As he spoke, the door opened, and a girl rather above than under fifteen years old, entered
with a platter, covered with damask, on which was placed a small saucer of the dried plums
which have always added to the reputation of Tours, and a cup of the curiously chased plate
which the goldsmiths of that city were anciently famous for executing with a delicacy of workmanship
that distinguished them from the other cities of France, and even excelled the skill of the
metropolis. The form of the goblet was so elegant that Durward thought not of observing closely
whether the material was of silver, or like what had been placed before himself, of a baser
metal, but so well burnished as to resemble the richer ore.

But the sight of the young person by whom this service was executed attracted Durward's attention
far more than the petty minutiae of the duty which she performed.

He speedily made the discovery that a quantity of long black tresses, which, in the maiden
fashion of his own country, were unadorned by any ornament, except a single chaplet lightly
woven out of ivy leaves, formed a veil around a countenance which, in its regular features,
dark eyes, and pensive expression, resembled that of Melpomene [the Muse of tragedy], though
there was a faint glow on the cheek, and an intelligence on the lips and in the eye, which
made it seem that gaiety was not foreign to a countenance so expressive, although it might
not be its most habitual expression. Quentin even thought he could discern that depressing
circumstances were the cause why a countenance so young and so lovely was graver than belongs
to early beauty; and as the romantic imagination of youth is rapid in drawing conclusions from
slight premises, he was pleased to infer, from what follows, that the fate of this beautiful
vision was wrapped in silence and mystery.

"How now, Jacqueline?" said Maitre Pierre, when she entered the apartment. "Wherefore this?
Did I not desire that Dame Perette should bring what I wanted?--Pasques dieu!--Is she, or does
she think herself, too good to serve me?"

"My kinswoman is ill at ease," answered Jacqueline, in a hurried yet a humble tone,--"ill at
ease, and keeps her chamber."

"She keeps it alone, I hope!" replied Maitre Pierre, with some emphasis; "I am vieux routier
[one who is experienced in the ways of the world], and none of those upon whom feigned disorders
pass for apologies."

Jacqueline turned pale, and even tottered at the answer of Maitre Pierre; for it must be owned
that his voice and looks, at all times harsh, caustic, and unpleasing, had, when he expressed
anger or suspicion, an effect both sinister and alarming.

The mountain chivalry of Quentin Durward was instantly awakened, and he hastened to approach
Jacqueline and relieve her of the burden she bore, and which she passively resigned to him,
while, with a timid and anxious look, she watched the countenance of the angry burgess. It
was not in nature to resist the piercing and pity craving expression of her looks, and Maitre
Pierre proceeded, not merely with an air of diminished displeasure, but with as much gentleness
as he could assume in countenance and manner, "I blame not thee, Jacqueline, and thou art too
young to be, what it is pity to think thou must be one day--a false and treacherous thing,
like the rest of thy giddy sex. No man ever lived to man's estate, but he had the opportunity
to know you all [he (Louis) entertained great contempt for the understanding, and not less
for the character, of the fair sex. S.]. Here is a Scottish cavalier will tell you the same."

Jacqueline looked for an instant on the young stranger, as if to obey Maitre Pierre, but the
glance, momentary as it was, appeared to Durward a pathetic appeal to him for support and sympathy;
and with the promptitude dictated by the feelings of youth, and the romantic veneration for
the female sex inspired by his education, he answered hastily that he would throw down his
gage to any antagonist, of equal rank and equal age, who should presume to say such a countenance
as that which he now looked upon, could be animated by other than the purest and the truest mind.

The young woman grew deadly pale, and cast an apprehensive glance upon Maitre Pierre, in whom
the bravado of the young gallant seemed only to excite laughter, more scornful than applausive.
Quentin, whose second thoughts generally corrected the first, though sometimes after they had
found utterance, blushed deeply at having uttered what might be construed into an empty boast
in presence of an old man of a peaceful profession; and as a sort of just and appropriate penance,
resolved patiently to submit to the ridicule which he had incurred. He offered the cup and
trencher to Maitre Pierre with a blush in his cheek, and a humiliation of countenance which
endeavoured to disguise itself under an embarrassed smile.

"You are a foolish young man," said Maitre Pierre, "and know as little of women as of princes,--whose
hearts," he said, crossing himself devoutly, "God keeps in his right hand."

"And who keeps those of the women, then?" said Quentin, resolved, if he could help it, not
to be borne down by the assumed superiority of this extraordinary old man, whose lofty and
careless manner possessed an influence over him of which he felt ashamed.

"I am afraid you must ask of them in another quarter," said Maitre Pierre, composedly.

Quentin was again rebuffed, but not utterly disconcerted. "Surely," he said to himself, "I
do not pay this same burgess of Tours all the deference which I yield him, on account of the
miserable obligation of a breakfast, though it was a right good and substantial meal. Dogs
and hawks are attached by feeding only--man must have kindness, if you would bind him with
the cords of affection and obligation. But he is an extraordinary person; and that beautiful
emanation that is even now vanishing--surely a thing so fair belongs not to this mean place,
belongs not even to the money gathering merchant himself, though he seems to exert authority
over her, as doubtless he does over all whom chance brings within his little circle. It is
wonderful what ideas of consequence these Flemings and Frenchmen attach to wealth--so much
more than wealth deserves, that I suppose this old merchant thinks the civility I pay to his
age is given to his money. I a Scottish gentleman of blood and coat armour, and he a mechanic
of Tours!"

Such were the thoughts which hastily traversed the mind of young Durward; while Maitre Pierre
said with a smile, and at the same time patting Jacqueline's heed, from which hung down her
long tresses, "This young man will serve me, Jacqueline, thou mayst withdraw. I will tell thy
negligent kinswoman she does ill to expose thee to be gazed on unnecessarily."

"It was only to wait on you," said the maiden. "I trust you will not be displeased with my
kinswoman, since"--

"Pasques dieu!" said the merchant, interrupting her, but not harshly, "do you bandy words with
me, you brat, or stay you to gaze upon the youngster here?--Begone--he is noble, and his services
will suffice me."

Jacqueline vanished; and so much was Quentin Durward interested in her sudden disappearance
that it broke his previous thread of reflection, and he complied mechanically when Maitre Pierre
said, in the tone of one accustomed to be obeyed, as he threw himself carelessly upon a large
easy chair, "Place that tray beside me."

The merchant then let his dark eyebrows sink over his keen eyes so that the last became scarce
visible, or but shot forth occasionally a quick and vivid ray, like those of the sun setting
behind a dark cloud, through which its beams are occasionally darted, but singly and for an
instant.

"That is a beautiful creature," said the old man at last, raising his head, and looking steadily
and firmly at Quentin, when he put the question,--"a lovely girl to be the servant of an auberge
[an inn]? She might grace the board of an honest burgess; but 'tis a vile education, a base
origin."

It sometimes happens that a chance shot will demolish a noble castle in the air, and the architect
on such occasions entertains little goodwill towards him who fires it, although the damage
on the offender's part may be wholly unintentional. Quentin was disconcerted, and was disposed
to be angry--he himself knew not why--with this old man, for acquainting him that this beautiful
creature was neither more nor less than what her occupation announced; the servant of the auberge--an
upper servant, indeed, and probably a niece of the landlord, or such like; but still a domestic,
and obliged to comply with the humour of the customers, and particularly of Maitre Pierre,
who probably had sufficiency of whims, and was rich enough to ensure their being attended to.

The thought, the lingering thought, again returned on him, that he ought to make the old gentleman
understand the difference betwixt their conditions, and call on him to mark, that, how rich
soever he might be, his wealth put him on no level with a Durward of Glen Houlakin. Yet, whenever
he looked on Maitre Pierre's countenance with such a purpose, there was, notwithstanding the
downcast look, pinched features, and mean and miserly dress, something which prevented the
young man from asserting the superiority over the merchant which he conceived himself to possess.
On the contrary, the oftener and more fixedly Quentin looked at him, the stronger became his
curiosity to know who or what this man actually was; and he set him down internally for at
least a Syndic or high magistrate of Tours, or one who was, in some way or other, in the full
habit of exacting and receiving deference. Meantime, the merchant seemed again sunk into a
reverie, from which he raised himself only to make the sign of the cross devoutly, and to eat
some of the dried fruit, with a morsel of biscuit. He then signed to Quentin to give him the
cup, adding, however, by way of question, as he presented it, "You are noble, you say?"

"I surely am," replied the Scot, "if fifteen descents can make me so--so I told you before.
But do not constrain yourself on that account, Maitre Pierre--I have always been taught it
is the duty of the young to assist the more aged."

"An excellent maxim," said the merchant, availing himself of the youth's assistance in handing
the cup, and filling it from a ewer which seemed of the same materials with the goblet, without
any of those scruples in point of propriety which, perhaps, Quentin had expected to excite.

"The devil take the ease and familiarity of this old mechanical burgher!" said Durward once
more to himself. "He uses the attendance of a noble Scottish gentleman with as little ceremony
as I would that of a gillie from Glen Isla."

The merchant, in the meanwhile, having finished his cup of water, said to his companion, "From
the zeal with which you seem to relish the Vin de Beaulne, I fancy you would not care much
to pledge me in this elemental liquor. But I have an elixir about me which can convert even
the rock water into the richest wines of France."

As he spoke, he took a large purse from his bosom, made of the fur of the sea otter, and streamed
a shower of small silver pieces into the goblet, until the cup, which was but a small one,
was more than half full.

"You have reason to be more thankful, young man," said Maitre Pierre, "both to your patron
Saint Quentin and to Saint Julian, than you seemed to be but now. I would advise you to bestow
alms in their name. Remain in this hostelry until you see your kinsman, Le Balafre, who will
be relieved from guard in the afternoon. I will cause him to be acquainted that he may find
you here, for I have business in the Castle."

Quentin Durward would have said something to have excused himself from accepting the profuse
liberality of his new friend; but Maitre Pierre, bending his dark brows, and erecting his stooping
figure into an attitude of more dignity than he had yet seen him assume, said in a tone of
authority, "No reply, young man, but do what you are commanded."

With these words he left the apartment, making a sign, as he departed, that Quentin must not
follow him.

The young Scotsman stood astounded, and knew not what to think of the matter. His first most
natural, though perhaps not most dignified impulse, drove him to peer into the silver goblet,
which assuredly was more than half full of silver pieces to the number of several scores, of
which perhaps Quentin had never called twenty his own at one time during the course of his
whole life. But could he reconcile it to his dignity as a gentleman, to accept the money of
this wealthy plebeian?--This was a trying question; for, though he had secured a good breakfast,
it was no great reserve upon which to travel either back to Dijon, in case he chose to hazard
the wrath and enter the service of the Duke of Burgundy, or to Saint Quentin, if he fixed on
that of the Constable Saint Paul; for to one of those powers, if not to the king of France,
he was determined to offer his services. He perhaps took the wisest resolution in the circumstances,
in resolving to be guided by the advice of his uncle; and, in the meantime, he put the money
into his velvet hawking pouch, and called for the landlord of the house, in order to restore
the silver cup--resolving, at the same time, to ask him some questions about this liberal and
authoritative merchant.

The man of the house appeared presently; and, if not more communicative, was at least more
loquacious, than he had been formerly. He positively declined to take back the silver cup.
It was none of his, he said, but Maitre Pierre's, who had bestowed it on his guest. He had,
indeed, four silver hanaps of his own, which had been left him by his grandmother, of happy
memory, but no more like the beautiful carving of that in his guest's hand, than a peach was
like a turnip--that was one of the famous cups of Tours, wrought by Martin Dominique, an artist
who might brag all Paris.

"And, pray, who is this Maitre Pierre," said Durward, interrupting him, "who confers such valuable
gifts on strangers?"

"Who is Maitre Pierre?" said the host, dropping the words as slowly from his mouth as if he
had been distilling them.

"Ay," said Durward, hastily and peremptorily, "who is this Maitre Pierre, and why does he throw
about his bounties in this fashion? And who is the butcherly looking fellow whom he sent forward
to order breakfast?"

"Why, fair sir, as to who Maitre Pierre is, you should have asked the question of himself;
and for the gentleman who ordered breakfast to be made ready, may God keep us from his closer
acquaintance!"

"There is something mysterious in all this," said the young Scot. "This Maitre Pierre tells
me he is a merchant."

"And if he told you so," said the innkeeper, "surely he is a merchant."

"What commodities does he deal in?"

"Oh, many a fair matter of traffic," said the host; "and especially he has set up silk manufactories
here which match those rich bales that the Venetians bring from India and Cathay. You might
see the rows of mulberry trees as you came hither, all planted by Maitre Pierre's command,
to feed the silk worms."

"And that young person who brought in the confections, who is she, my good friend?" said the guest.

"My lodger, sir, with her guardian, some sort of aunt or kinswoman, as I think," replied the
innkeeper.

"And do you usually employ your guests in waiting on each other?" said Durward; "for I observed
that Maitre Pierre would take nothing from your hand, or that of your attendant."

"Rich men may have their fancies, for they can pay for them," said the landlord; "this is not
the first time Maitre Pierre has found the true way to make gentlefolks serve at his beck."

The young Scotsman felt somewhat offended at the insinuation; but, disguising his resentment,
he asked whether he could be accommodated with an apartment at this place for a day, and perhaps
longer.

"Certainly," the innkeeper replied; "for whatever time he was pleased to command it."

"Could he be permitted," he asked, "to pay his respects to the ladies, whose fellow lodger
he was about to become?"

The innkeeper was uncertain. "They went not abroad," he said, "and received no one at home."

"With the exception, I presume, of Maitre Pierre?" said Durward.

"I am not at liberty to name any exceptions," answered the man, firmly but respectfully.

Quentin, who carried the notions of his own importance pretty high, considering how destitute
he was of means to support them, being somewhat mortified by the innkeeper's reply, did not
hesitate to avail himself of a practice common enough in that age. "Carry to the ladies," he
said, "a flask of vernat, with my humble duty; and say that Quentin Durward, of the house of
Glen Houlakin, a Scottish cavalier of honour, and now their fellow lodger, desires the permission
to dedicate his homage to them in a personal interview."

The messenger departed, and returned, almost instantly, with the thanks of the ladies, who
declined the proffered refreshment, and, with their acknowledgments to the Scottish cavalier,
regretted that, residing there in privacy, they could not receive his visit.

Quentin bit his lip, took a cup of the rejected vernat, which the host had placed on the table.
"By the mass, but this is a strange country," said he to himself, "where merchants and mechanics
exercise the manners and munificence of nobles, and little travelling damsels, who hold their
court in a cabaret [a public house], keep their state like disguised princesses! I will see
that black browed maiden again, or it will go hard, however;" and having formed this prudent
resolution, he demanded to be conducted to the apartment which he was to call his own.

The landlord presently ushered him up a turret staircase, and from thence along a gallery,
with many doors opening from it, like those of cells in a convent; a resemblance which our
young hero, who recollected, with much ennui, an early specimen of a monastic life, was far
from admiring. The host paused at the very end of the gallery, selected a key from the large
bunch which he carried at his girdle, opened the door, and showed his guest the interior of
a turret chamber; small, indeed, but which, being clean and solitary, and having the pallet
bed and the few articles of furniture, in unusually good order, seemed, on the whole, a little
palace.

"I hope you will find your dwelling agreeable here, fair sir," said the landlord. "I am bound
to pleasure every friend of Maitre Pierre."

"Oh, happy ducking!" exclaimed Quentin Durward, cutting a caper on the floor, so soon as his
host had retired: "Never came good luck in a better or a wetter form. I have been fairly deluged
by my good fortune."

As he spoke thus, he stepped towards the little window, which, as the turret projected considerably
from the principal line of the building, not only commanded a very pretty garden of some extent,
belonging to the inn, but overlooked, beyond its boundary, a pleasant grove of those very mulberry
trees which Maitre Pierre was said to have planted for the support of the silk worm. Besides,
turning the eye from these more remote objects, and looking straight along the wall, the turret
of Quentin was opposite to another turret, and the little window at which he stood commanded
a similar little window in a corresponding projection of the building. Now, it would be difficult
for a man twenty years older than Quentin to say why this locality interested him more than
either the pleasant garden or the grove of mulberry trees; for, alas! eyes which have been
used for forty years and upwards, look with indifference on little turret windows, though the
lattice be half open to admit the air, while the shutter is half closed to exclude the sun,
or perhaps a too curious eye--nay, even though there hang on the one side of the casement a
lute, partly mantled by a light veil of sea green silk. But, at Durward's happy age, such accidents,
as a painter would call them, form sufficient foundation for a hundred airy visions and mysterious
conjectures, at recollection of which the full grown man smiles while he sighs, and sighs while
he smiles.

As it may be supposed that our friend Quentin wished to learn a little more of his fair neighbour,
the owner of the lute and veil--as it may be supposed he was at least interested to know whether
she might not prove the same whom he had seen in humble attendance on Maitre Pierre, it must
of course be understood that he did not produce a broad staring visage and person in full front
of his own casement. Durward knew better the art of bird catching; and it was to his keeping
his person skilfully withdrawn on one side of his window; while he peeped through the lattice,
that he owed the pleasure of seeing a white, round, beautiful arm take down the instrument,
and that his ears had presently after their share in the reward of his dexterous management.

The maid of the little turret, of the veil, and of the lute sang exactly such an air as we
are accustomed to suppose flowed from the lips of the high born dames of chivalry, when knights
and troubadours listened and languished. The words had neither so much sense, wit, or fancy
as to withdraw the attention from the music, nor the music so much of art as to drown all feeling
of the words. The one seemed fitted to the other; and if the song had been recited without
the notes, or the air played without the words, neither would have been worth noting. It is;
therefore, scarcely fair to put upon record lines intended not to be said or read, but only
to be sung. But such scraps of old poetry have always had a sort of fascination for us; and
as the tune is lost for ever unless Bishop [Sir Henry Rowley, an English composer and professor
of music at Oxford in 1848. Among his most popular operas are Guy Mannering and The Kniqht
of Snowdon] happens to find the notes, or some lark teaches Stephens [Catherine (1794-1882):
a vocalist and actress who created Susanna in the Marriage of Figaro, and various parts in
adaptation of Scott.] to warble the air--we will risk our credit, and the taste of the Lady
of the Lute, by preserving the verses, simple and even rude as they are:

     Ah! County Guy, the hour is nigh,
     The sun has left the lea,
     The orange flower perfumes the bower,
     The breeze is on the sea.
     The lark, his lay who thrill'd all day,
     Sits hush'd his partner nigh;
     Breeze, bird, and flower confess the hour,
     But where is County Guy?

     The village maid steals through the shade,
     Her shepherd's suit to hear;
     To beauty shy, by lattice high,
     Sings high born Cavalier.
     The star of Love, all stars above,
     Now reigns o'er earth and sky;
     And high and low the influence know
     --But where is County Guy?

Whatever the reader may think of this simple ditty, it had a powerful effect on Quentin, when
married to heavenly airs, and sung by a sweet and melting voice, the notes mingling with the
gentle breezes which wafted perfumes from the garden, and the figure of the songstress being
so partially and obscurely visible as threw a veil of mysterious fascination over the whole.

At the close of the air, the listener could not help showing himself more boldly than he had
yet done, in a rash attempt to see more than he had yet been able to discover. The music instantly
ceased--the casement was closed, and a dark curtain, dropped on the inside, put a stop to all
farther observation on the part of the neighbour in the next turret.

Durward was mortified and surprised at the consequence of his precipitance, but comforted himself
with the hope that the Lady of the Lute could neither easily forego the practice of an instrument
which seemed so familiar to her, nor cruelly resolve to renounce the pleasures of fresh air
and an open window for the churlish purpose of preserving for her own exclusive ear the sweet
sounds which she created. There came, perhaps, a little feeling of personal vanity to mingle
with these consolatory reflections. If, as he shrewdly suspected, there was a beautiful dark
tressed damsel inhabitant of the one turret, he could not but be conscious that a handsome,
young, roving, bright locked gallant, a cavalier of fortune, was the tenant of the other; and
romances, those prudent instructors, had taught his youth that if damsels were shy, they were
yet neither void of interest nor of curiosity in their neighbours' affairs.

Whilst Quentin was engaged in these sage reflections, a sort of attendant or chamberlain of
the inn informed him that a cavalier desired to speak with him below.

CHAPTER V: THE MAN AT ARMS

     Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,
     Seeking the bubble reputation
     Even in the cannon's mouth.

     AS YOU LIKE IT

The cavalier who awaited Quentin Durward's descent into the apartment where he had breakfasted,
was one of those of whom Louis XI had long since said that they held in their hands the fortune
of France, as to them were intrusted the direct custody and protection of the royal person.

Charles the Sixth had instituted this celebrated body, the Archers, as they were called, of
the Scottish Bodyguard, with better reason than can generally be alleged for establishing round
the throne a guard of foreign and mercenary troops. The divisions which tore from his side
more than half of France, together with the wavering and uncertain faith of the nobility who
yet acknowledged his cause, rendered it impolitic and unsafe to commit his personal safety
to their keeping. The Scottish nation was the hereditary enemy of the English, and the ancient,
and, as it seemed, the natural allies of France. They were poor, courageous, faithful; their
ranks were sure to be supplied from the superabundant population of their own country, than
which none in Europe sent forth more or bolder adventurers. Their high claims of descent, too,
gave them a good title to approach the person of a monarch more closely than other troops,
while the comparative smallness of their numbers prevented the possibility of their mutinying,
and becoming masters where they ought to be servants.

On the other hand, the French monarchs made it their policy to conciliate the affections of
this select band of foreigners, by allowing them honorary privileges and ample pay, which last
most of them disposed of with military profusion in supporting their supposed rank. Each of
them ranked as a gentleman in place and honour; and their near approach to the King's person
gave them dignity in their own eyes, as well as importance in those of the nation of France.
They were sumptuously armed, equipped, and mounted; and each was entitled to allowance for
a squire, a valet, a page; and two yeomen, one of whom was termed coutelier, from the large
knife which he wore to dispatch those whom in the melee his master had thrown to the ground.
With these followers, and a corresponding equipage, an Archer of the Scottish Guard was a person
of quality and importance; and vacancies being generally filled up by those who had been trained
in the service as pages or valets, the cadets of the best Scottish families were often sent
to serve under some friend and relation in those capacities, until a chance of preferment should
occur.

The coutelier and his companion, not being noble or capable of this promotion, were recruited
from persons of inferior quality; but as their pay and appointments were excellent, their masters
were easily able to select from among their wandering countrymen the strongest and most courageous
to wait upon them in these capacities.

Ludovic Lesly, or as we shall more frequently call him, Le Balafre, by which name he was generally
known in France, was upwards of six feet high, robust, strongly compacted in person, and hard
favoured in countenance, which latter attribute was much increased by a large and ghastly scar,
which, beginning on his forehead, and narrowly missing his right eye, had laid bare the cheek
bone, and descended from thence almost to the tip of his ear, exhibiting a deep seam, which
was sometimes scarlet, sometimes purple, sometimes blue, and sometimes approaching to black;
but always hideous, because at variance with the complexion of the face in whatever state it
chanced to be, whether agitated or still, flushed with unusual passion, or in its ordinary
state of weather-beaten and sunburnt swarthiness.

His dress and arms were splendid. He wore his national bonnet, crested with a tuft of feathers,
and with a Virgin Mary of massive silver for a brooch. These brooches had been presented to
the Scottish Guard, in consequence of the King, in one of his fits of superstitions piety,
having devoted the swords of his guard to the service of the Holy Virgin, and, as some say,
carried the matter so far as to draw out a commission to Our Lady as their Captain General.
The Archer's gorget, arm pieces, and gauntlets, were of the finest steel, curiously inlaid
with silver, and his hauberk, or shirt of mail, was as clear and bright as the frostwork of
a winter morning upon fern or brier. He wore a loose surcoat or cassock of rich blue velvet,
open at the sides like that of a herald, with a large white St. Andrew's cross of embroidered
silver bisecting it both before and behind; his knees and legs were protected by hose of mail
and shoes of steel; a broad, strong poniard (called the Mercy of God), hung by his right side;
the baldric for his two handed sword, richly embroidered, hung upon his left shoulder; but
for convenience he at present carried in his hand that unwieldy weapon which the rules of his
service forbade him to lay aside.

[St. Andrew was the first called to apostleship. He made many converts to Christianity and
was finally crucified on a cross of peculiar form, which has since been called the St. Andrew's
cross. Certain of his relics were brought to Scotland in the fourth century, and he has since
that time been honoured as the patron saint of that country. He is also the patron saint of
the Burgundian Order, the Golden Fleece.]

Quentin Durward--though, like the Scottish youth of the period, he had been early taught to
look upon arms and war--thought he had never seen a more martial looking, or more completely
equipped and accomplished man at arms than now saluted him in the person of his mother's brother,
called Ludovic with the Scar, or Le Balafre; yet he could not but shrink a little from the
grim expression of his countenance, while, with its rough moustaches, he brushed first the
one and then the other cheek of his kinsman, welcomed his nephew to France, and, in the same
breath, asked what news from Scotland.

"Little good tidings, dear uncle," replied young Durward; "but I am glad that you know me so
readily."

"I would have known thee, boy, in the landes of Bourdeaux, had I met thee marching there like
a crane on a pair of stilts [the crutches or stilts which in Scotland are used to pass rivers.
They are employed by the peasantry of the country near Bordeaux to traverse those deserts of
loose sand called Landes. S]. But sit thee down--sit thee down--if there is sorrow to hear
of, we will have wine to make us bear it.--Ho! old Pinch Measure, our good host, bring us of
thy best, and that in an instant."

The well known sound of the Scottish French was as familiar in the taverns near Plessis as
that of the Swiss French in the modern guinguettes [common inns] of Paris; and promptly--ay,
with the promptitude of fear and precipitation, was it heard and obeyed. A flagon of champagne
stood before them, of which the elder took a draught, while the nephew helped himself only
to a moderate sip to acknowledge his uncle's courtesy, saying, in excuse, that he had already
drunk wine that morning.

"That had been a rare good apology in the mouth of thy sister, fair nephew," said Le Balafre;
"you must fear the wine pot less, if you would wear beard on your face, and write yourself
soldier. But, come--come--unbuckle your Scottish mail bag--give us the news of Glen Houlakin--How
doth my sister?"

"Dead, fair uncle," answered Quentin, sorrowfully.

"Dead!" echoed his uncle, with a tone rather marked by wonder than sympathy,--"why, she was
five years younger than I, and I was never better in my life. Dead! the thing is impossible.
I have never had so much as a headache, unless after revelling out of my two or three days'
furlough with the brethren of the joyous science--and my poor sister is dead--And your father,
fair nephew, hath he married again?"

And, ere the youth could reply, he read the answer in his surprise at the question, and said,
"What! no--I would have sworn that Allan Durward was no man to live without a wife. He loved
to have his house in order--loved to look on a pretty woman too; and was somewhat strict in
life withal--matrimony did all this for him. Now, I care little about these comforts, and I
can look on a pretty woman without thinking on the sacrament of wedlock--I am scarce holy enough
for that."

"Alas! dear uncle, my mother was left a widow a year since, when Glen Houlakin was harried
by the Ogilvies. My father, and my two uncles, and my two elder brothers, and seven of my kinsmen,
and the harper, and the tasker, and some six more of our people, were killed in defending the
castle, and there is not a burning hearth or a standing stone in all Glen Houlakin."

"Cross of Saint Andrew!" said Le Balafre; "that is what I call an onslaught! Ay, these Ogilvies
were ever but sorry neighbours to Glen Houlakin--an evil chance it was; but fate of war--fate
of war.--When did this mishap befall, fair nephew?" With that he took a deep draught of wine,
and shook his head with much solemnity, when his kinsman replied that his family had been destroyed
upon the festival of Saint Jude [October 28] last bypast.

"Look ye there," said the soldier; "I said it was all chance--on that very day I and twenty
of my comrades carried the Castle of Roche Noir by storm, from Amaury Bras de fer, a captain
of free lances, whom you must have heard of. I killed him on his own threshold, and gained
as much gold as made this fair chain, which was once twice as long as it now is--and that minds
me to send part of it on an holy errand.--Here, Andrew--Andrew!"

Andrew, his yeoman, entered, dressed like the Archer himself in the general equipment, but
without the armour for the limbs--that of the body more coarsely manufactured--his cap without
a plume, and his cassock made of serge, or ordinary cloth, instead of rich velvet. Untwining
his gold chain from his neck, Balafre twisted off, with his firm and strong set teeth, about
four inches from the one end of it, and said to his attendant, "Here, Andrew, carry this to
my gossip, jolly Father Boniface, the monk of St. Martin's; greet him well from me, by the
same token that he could not say God save ye when we last parted at midnight.--Tell my gossip
that my brother and sister, and some others of my house, are all dead and gone, and I pray
him to say masses for their souls as far as the value of these links will carry him, and to
do on trust what else may be necessary to free them from Purgatory. And hark ye, as they were
just living people, and free from all heresy, it may be that they are well nigh out of limbo
already, so that a little matter may have them free of the fetlocks; and in that case, look
ye, ye will say I desire to take out the balance of the gold in curses upon a generation called
the Ogilvies of Angus Shire, in what way soever the church may best come at them. You understand
all this, Andrew?"

The coutelier nodded.

"Then look that none of the links find their way to the wine house ere the monk touches them;
for if it so chance, thou shalt taste of saddle girth and stirrup leather till thou art as
raw as Saint Bartholomew [he was flayed alive. In Michael Angelo's Last Judgment he is represented
as holding his skin in his hand]--Yet hold, I see thy eye has fixed on the wine measure, and
thou shalt not go without tasting."

So saying, he filled him a brimful cup, which the coutelier drank off, and retired to do his
patron's commission.

"And now, fair nephew, let us hear what was your own fortune in this unhappy matter."

"I fought it out among those who were older and stouter than I was, till we were all brought
down," said Durward, "and I received a cruel wound."

"Not a worse slash than I received ten years since myself," said Le Balafre. "Look at this,
now, my fair nephew," tracing the dark crimson gash which was imprinted on his face.--"An Ogilvy's
sword never ploughed so deep a furrow."

"They ploughed deep enough," answered Quentin, sadly, "but they were tired at last, and my
mother's entreaties procured mercy for me, when I was found to retain some spark of life; but
although a learned monk of Aberbrothik, who chanced to be our guest at the fatal time, and
narrowly escaped being killed in the fray, was permitted to bind my wounds, and finally to
remove me to a place of safety, it was only on promise, given both by my mother and him, that
I should become a monk."

"A monk!" exclaimed the uncle. "Holy Saint Andrew! that is what never befell me. No one, from
my childhood upwards, ever so much as dreamed of making me a monk. And yet I wonder when I
think of it; for you will allow that, bating the reading and writing, which I could never learn,
and the psalmody, which I could never endure, and the dress, which is that of a mad beggar--Our
Lady forgive me! [here he crossed himself] and their fasts, which do not suit my appetite,
I would have made every whit as good a monk as my little gossip at St. Martin's yonder. But
I know not why, none ever proposed the station to me.--Oh, so, fair nephew, you were to be
a monk, then--and wherefore, I pray you?"

"That my father's house might be ended, either in the cloister or in the tomb," answered Quentin,
with deep feeling.

"I see," answered his uncle--"I comprehend. Cunning rogues--very cunning! They might have been
cheated, though; for, look ye, fair nephew, I myself remember the canon Robersart who had taken
the vows and afterwards broke out of cloister, and became a captain of Free Companions. He
had a mistress, the prettiest wench I ever saw, and three as beautiful children.--There is
no trusting monks, fair nephew--no trusting them--they may become soldiers and fathers when
you least expect it--but on with your tale."

"I have little more to tell," said Durward, "except that, considering my poor mother to be
in some degree a pledge for me, I was induced to take upon me the dress of a novice, and conformed
to the cloister rules, and even learned to read and write."

"To read and write!" exclaimed Le Balafre, who was one of that sort of people who think all
knowledge is miraculous which chances to exceed their own. "To write, say'st thou, and to read!
I cannot believe it--never Durward could write his name that ever I heard of, nor Lesly either.
I can answer for one of them--I can no more write than I can fly. Now, in Saint Louis's name,
how did they teach it you?"

"It was troublesome at first," said Durward, "but became more easy by use; and I was weak with
my wounds, and loss of blood, and desirous to gratify my preserver, Father Peter, and so I
was the more easily kept to my task. But after several months' languishing, my good, kind mother
died, and as my health was now fully restored, I communicated to my benefactor, who was also
Sub Prior of the convent, my reluctance to take the vows; and it was agreed between us, since
my vocation lay not to the cloister, that I should be sent out into the world to seek my fortune,
and that to save the Sub Prior from the anger of the Ogilvies, my departure should have the
appearance of flight; and to colour it I brought off the Abbot's hawk with me. But I was regularly
dismissed, as will appear from the hand and seal of the Abbot himself."

"That is right, that is well," said his uncle. "Our King cares little what other theft thou
mayst have made, but hath a horror at anything like a breach of the cloister. And I warrant
thee, thou hadst no great treasure to bear thy charges?"

"Only a few pieces of silver," said the youth; "for to you, fair uncle, I must make a free
confession."

"Alas!" replied Le Balafre, "that is hard. Now, though I am never a hoarder of my pay, because
it doth ill to bear a charge about one in these perilous times, yet I always have (and I would
advise you to follow my example) some odd gold chain, or bracelet, or carcanet, that serves
for the ornament of my person, and can at need spare a superfluous link or two, or it may be
a superfluous stone for sale, that can answer any immediate purpose. But you may ask, fair
kinsman, how you are to come by such toys as this." (He shook his chain with complacent triumph.)
"They hang not on every bush--they grow not in the fields like the daffodils, with whose stalks
children make knights' collars. What then?--you may get such where I got this, in the service
of the good King of France, where there is always wealth to be found, if a man has but the
heart to seek it at the risk of a little life or so."

"I understood," said Quentin, evading a decision to which he felt himself as yet scarcely competent,
"that the Duke of Burgundy keeps a more noble state than the King of France, and that there
is more honour to be won under his banners--that good blows are struck there, and deeds of
arms done; while the most Christian King, they say, gains his victories by his ambassadors'
tongues."

"You speak like a foolish boy, fair nephew," answered he with the scar; "and yet, I bethink
me, when I came hither I was nearly as simple: I could never think of a King but what I supposed
him either sitting under the high deas, and feasting amid his high vassals and Paladins, eating
blanc mange, with a great gold crown upon his head, or else charging at the head of his troops
like Charlemagne in the romaunts, or like Robert Bruce or William Wallace in our own true histories,
such as Barbour and the Minstrel. Hark in thine ear, man--it is all moonshine in the water.
Policy--policy does it all. But what is policy, you will say? It is an art this French King
of ours has found out, to fight with other men's swords, and to wage his soldiers out of other
men's purses. Ah! it is the wisest prince that ever put purple on his back--and yet he weareth
not much of that neither--I see him often go plainer than I would think befitted me to do."

[Charlemagne (742?-814): King of the Franks and crowned Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire in
800. His kingdom included Germany and France, the greater part of Italy, and Spain as far as
the Ebro. As Emperor of the West he bore the title Caesar Augustus. He established churches
and monasteries, and encouraged arts and learning. He figures largely in mediaeval minstrelsy,
where the achievements of his knights, or paladins, rival those of Arthur's court.]

[Robert Bruce: the grandson of Robert Bruce, the competitor with John Baliol for the Scottish
throne. He defeated the English forces at Bannockburn in 1314, and thus secured the independence
of Scotland, an independence which lasted until the two kingdoms were united under one crown
in 1707.]

[William Wallace: another brave Scottish leader in the war for independence against Edward
I of England. Wallace was betrayed in 1305 and carried to London, where he was cruelly executed
as a traitor.]

[Barbour: an eminent Scottish poet contemporary with Chaucer. His principal work, The Bruce,
records the life and deeds of Robert Bruce.]

[Harry the Minstrel or "Blind Harry" was the author of a poem on the life and deeds of Wallace
which was held in peculiar reverence by the Scotch people.]

"But you meet not my exception, fair uncle," answered young Durward; "I would serve, since
serve I must in a foreign land, somewhere where a brave deed, were it my hap to do one, might
work me a name."

"I understand you, my fair nephew," said the royal man at arms, "I understand you passing well;
but you are unripe in these matters. The Duke of Burgundy is a hot brained, impetuous, pudding
headed, iron ribbed dare all. He charges at the head of his nobles and native knights, his
liegemen of Artois and Hainault; think you, if you were there, or if I were there myself, that
we could be much farther forward than the Duke and all his brave nobles of his own land? If
we were not up with them, we had a chance to be turned on the Provost Marshal's hands for being
slow in making to; if we were abreast of them, all would be called well and we might be thought
to have deserved our pay; and grant that I was a spear's length or so in the front, which is
both difficult and dangerous in such a melee where all do their best, why, my lord Duke says
in his Flemish tongue, when he sees a good blow struck, 'Ha! gut getroffen [well struck]! a
good lance--a brave Scot--give him a florin to drink our health;' but neither rank, nor lands,
nor treasures come to the stranger in such a service--all goes to the children of the soil."

"And where should it go, in Heaven's name, fair uncle?" demanded young Durward.

"To him that protects the children of the soil," said Balafre, drawing up his gigantic height.
"Thus says King Louis 'My good French peasant--mine honest Jacques Bonhomme, get you to your
tools, your plough and your harrow, your pruning knife and your hoe--here is my gallant Scot
that will fight for you, and you shall only have the trouble to pay him. And you, my most serene
duke, my illustrious count, and my most mighty marquis, e'en rein up your fiery courage till
it is wanted, for it is apt to start out of the course, and to hurt its master; here are my
companies of ordnance--here are my French Guards--here are, above all, my Scottish Archers,
and mine honest Ludovic with the Scar, who will fight, as well or better than you, will fight
with all that undisciplined valour which, in your father's time, lost Cressy and Azincour [two
famous victories in the Hundred Years' War gained over the French by the English, near the
towns of Crecy and Agincourt, in 1346 and 1415. See Shakespeare's Henry V for a description
of the latter.]. Now, see you not in which of these states a cavalier of fortune holds the
highest rank, and must come to the highest honour?"

"I think I understand you, fair uncle," answered the nephew; "but, in my mind, honour cannot
be won where there is no risk. Sure, this is--I pray pardon me--an easy and almost slothful
life, to mount guard round an elderly man whom no one thinks of harming, to spend summer day
and winter night up in yonder battlements, and shut up all the while in iron cages, for fear
you should desert your posts--uncle, uncle, it is but a hawk upon his perch, who is never carried
out to the fields!"

"Now, by Saint Martin of Tours, the boy has some spirit! a right touch of the Lesly in him;
much like myself, though always with a little more folly in it. Hark ye, youth--Long live the
King of France!--scarce a day but there is some commission in hand, by which some of his followers
may win both coin and credit. Think not that the bravest and most dangerous deeds are done
by daylight. I could tell you of some, as scaling castles, making prisoners, and the like,
where one who shall be nameless hath run higher risk and gained greater favour than any desperado
in the train of desperate Charles of Burgundy. And if it please his Majesty to remain behind,
and in the background, while such things are doing, he hath the more leisure of spirit to admire,
and the more liberality of hand to reward the adventurers, whose dangers, perhaps, and whose
feats of arms, he can better judge of than if he had personally shared them. Oh, 't is a sagacious
and most politic monarch!"

His nephew paused, and then said, in a low but impressive tone of voice, "the good Father Peter
used often to teach me there might be much danger in deeds by which little glory was acquired.
I need not say to you, fair uncle, that I do in course suppose that these secret commissions
must needs be honourable."

"For whom or for what take you me, fair nephew," said Balafre, somewhat sternly; "I have not
been trained, indeed, in the cloister, neither can I write or read. But I am your mother's
brother; I am a loyal Lesly. Think you that I am like to recommend to you anything unworthy?
The best knight in France, Du Guesclin himself, if he were alive again, might be proud to number
my deeds among his achievements."

"I cannot doubt your warranty, fair uncle," said the youth; "you are the only adviser my mishap
has left me. But is it true, as fame says, that this King keeps a meagre Court here at his
Castle of Plessis? No repair of nobles or courtiers, none of his grand feudatories in attendance,
none of the high officers of the crown; half solitary sports, shared only with the menials
of his household; secret councils, to which only low and obscure men are invited; rank and
nobility depressed, and men raised from the lowest origin to the kingly favour--all this seems
unregulated, resembles not the manners of his father, the noble Charles, who tore from the
fangs of the English lion this more than half conquered kingdom of France."

"You speak like a giddy child," said Le Balafre, "and even as a child, you harp over the same
notes on a new string. Look you: if the King employs Oliver Dain, his barber, to do what Oliver
can do better than any peer of them all, is not the kingdom the gainer? If he bids his stout
Provost Marshal, Tristan, arrest such or such a seditious burgher, take off such or such a
turbulent noble, the deed is done, and no more of it; when, were the commission given to a
duke or peer of France, he might perchance send the King back a defiance in exchange. If, again,
the King pleases to give to plain Ludovic le Balafre a commission which he will execute, instead
of employing the High Constable, who would perhaps betray it, doth it not show wisdom? Above
all, doth not a monarch of such conditions best suit cavaliers of fortune, who must go where
their services are most highly prized, and most frequently in demand?--No, no, child, I tell
thee Louis knows how to choose his confidants, and what to charge them with; suiting, as they
say, the burden to each man's back. He is not like the King of Castile, who choked with thirst,
because the great butler was not beside to hand his cup.--But hark to the bell of St. Martin's!
I must hasten, back to the Castle--Farewell--make much of yourself, and at eight tomorrow morning
present yourself before the drawbridge, and ask the sentinel for me. Take heed you step not
off the straight and beaten path in approaching the portal! There are such traps and snap haunches
as may cost you a limb, which you will sorely miss. You shall see the King, and learn to judge
him for yourself--farewell."

So saying, Balafre hastily departed, forgetting, in his hurry, to pay for the wine he had called
for, a shortness of memory incidental to persons of his description, and which his host, overawed
perhaps by the nodding bonnet and ponderous two handed sword, did not presume to use any efforts
for correcting. It might have been expected that, when left alone, Durward would have again
betaken himself to his turret, in order to watch for the repetition of those delicious sounds
which had soothed his morning reverie. But that was a chapter of romance, and his uncle's conversation
had opened to him a page of the real history of life. It was no pleasing one, and for the present
the recollections and reflections which it excited were qualified to overpower other thoughts,
and especially all of a light and soothing nature.

Quentin resorted to a solitary walk along the banks of the rapid Cher, having previously inquired
of his landlord for one which he might traverse without fear of disagreeable interruption from
snares and pitfalls, and there endeavoured to compose his turmoiled and scattered thoughts,
and consider his future motions, upon which his meeting with his uncle had thrown some dubiety.

     OLD SONG

[The Bohemians: In... Guy Mannering the reader will find some remarks on the gipsies as they
are found in Scotland. Their first appearance in Europe took place in the beginning of the
fifteenth century. The account given by these singular people was, that it was appointed to
them, as a penance, to travel for a certain number of years. Their appearance, however, and
manners, strongly contradicted the allegation that they travelled from any religious motive.
Their dress and accoutrements were at once showy and squalid; those who acted as captains and
leaders of any horde,... were arrayed in dresses of the most showy colours, such as scarlet
or light green; were well mounted; assumed the title of dukes and counts, and affected considerable
consequence. The rest of the tribe were most miserable in their diet and apparel, fed without
hesitation on animals which had died of disease, and were clad in filthy and scanty rags....
Their complexion was positively Eastern, approaching to that of the Hindoos. Their manners
were as depraved as their appearance was poor and beggarly. The men were in general thieves,
and the women of the most abandoned character. The few arts which they studied with success
were of a slight and idle, though ingenious description. They practised working in iron, but
never upon any great scale. The arrival of the Egyptians (as these singular people were called)
in various parts of Europe, corresponds with the period in which Timur or Tamerlane invaded
Hindostan, affording its natives the choice between the Koran and death. There can be little
doubt that these wanderers consisted originally of the Hindostanee tribes, who, displaced,
and flying from the sabres of the Mohammedans, undertook this species of wandering life, without
well knowing whither they were going. When they are in closest contact with the ordinary peasants
around them, they still keep their language a mystery. There is little doubt, however, that
it is a dialect of the Hindostanee, from the specimens produced by Grellman, Hoyland, and others,
who have written on the subject. S.]

The manner in which Quentin Durward had been educated was not of a kind to soften the heart,
or perhaps to improve the moral feeling. He, with the rest of his family, had been trained
to the chase as an amusement, and taught to consider war as their only serious occupation,
and that it was the great duty of their lives stubbornly to endure, and fiercely to retaliate,
the attacks of their feudal enemies, by whom their race had been at last almost annihilated.
And yet there mixed with these feuds a spirit of rude chivalry, and even courtesy, which softened
their rigour; so that revenge, their only justice, was still prosecuted with some regard to
humanity and generosity. The lessons of the worthy old monk, better attended to, perhaps, during
a long illness and adversity, than they might have been in health and success, had given young
Durward still farther insight into the duties of humanity towards others; and considering the
ignorance of the period, the general prejudices entertained in favour of a military life, and
the manner in which he himself had been bred, the youth was disposed to feel more accurately
the moral duties incumbent on his station than was usual at the time.

He reflected on his interview with his uncle with a sense of embarrassment and disappointment.
His hopes had been high; for although intercourse by letters was out of the question, yet a
pilgrim, or an adventurous trafficker, or a crippled soldier sometimes brought Lesly's name
to Glen Houlakin, and all united in praising his undaunted courage, and his success in many
petty enterprises which his master had intrusted to him. Quentin's imagination had filled up
the sketch in his own way, and assimilated his successful and adventurous uncle (whose exploits
probably lost nothing in the telling) to some of the champions and knights errant of whom minstrels
sung and who won crowns and kings' daughters by dint of sword and lance. He was now compelled
to rank his kinsman greatly lower in the scale of chivalry; but, blinded by the high respect
paid to parents and those who approach that character--moved by every early prejudice in his
favour--inexperienced besides, and passionately attached to his mother's memory, he saw not,
in the only brother of that dear relation, the character he truly held, which was that of an
ordinary mercenary soldier, neither much worse nor greatly better than many of the same profession
whose presence added to the distracted state of France.

Without being wantonly cruel, Le Balafre was, from habit, indifferent to human life and human
suffering; he was profoundly ignorant, greedy of booty, unscrupulous how he acquired it, and
profuse in expending it on the gratification of his passions. The habit of attending exclusively
to his own wants and interests had converted him into one of the most selfish animals in the
world; so that he was seldom able, as the reader may have remarked, to proceed far in any subject
without considering how it applied to himself, or, as it is called, making the case his own,
though not upon feelings connected with the golden rule, but such as were very different. To
this must be added that the narrow round of his duties and his pleasures had gradually circumscribed
his thoughts, hopes, and wishes, and quenched in a great measure the wild spirit of honour,
and desire of distinction in arms, by which his youth had been once animated.

Balafre was, in short, a keen soldier, hardened, selfish, and narrow minded; active and bold
in the discharge of his duty, but acknowledging few objects beyond it, except the formal observance
of a careless devotion, relieved by an occasional debauch with brother Boniface, his comrade
and confessor. Had his genius been of a more extended character, he would probably have been
promoted to some important command, for the King, who knew every soldier of his bodyguard personally,
reposed much confidence in Balafre's courage and fidelity; and besides, the Scot had either
wisdom or cunning enough perfectly to understand, and ably to humour, the peculiarities of
that sovereign. Still, however, his capacity was too much limited to admit of his rising to
higher rank, and though smiled on and favoured by Louis on many occasions, Balafre continued
a mere Life Guardsman, or Scottish Archer.

Without seeing the full scope of his uncle's character, Quentin felt shocked at his indifference
to the disastrous extirpation of his brother in law's whole family, and could not help being
surprised, moreover, that so near a relative had not offered him the assistance of his purse,
which, but for the generosity of Maitre Pierre, he would have been under the necessity of directly
craving from him. He wronged his uncle, however, in supposing that this want of attention to
his probable necessities was owing to avarice. Not precisely needing money himself at that
moment, it had not occurred to Balafre that his nephew might be in exigencies; otherwise, he
held a near kinsman so much a part of himself, that he would have provided for the weal of
the living nephew, as he endeavoured to do for that of his deceased sister and her husband.
But whatever was the motive, the neglect was very unsatisfactory to young Durward, and he wished
more than once he had taken service with the Duke of Burgundy before he quarrelled with his
forester. "Whatever had then become of me," he thought to himself, "I should always have been
able to keep up my spirits with the reflection that I had, in case of the worst, a stout back
friend in this uncle of mine. But now I have seen him, and, woe worth him, there has been more
help in a mere mechanical stranger, than I have found in my own mother's brother, my countryman
and a cavalier! One would think the slash, that has carved all comeliness out of his face,
had let at the same time every drop of gentle blood out of his body."

Durward now regretted he had not had an opportunity to mention Maitre Pierre to Le Balafre,
in the hope of obtaining some farther account of that personage; but his uncle's questions
had followed fast on each other, and the summons of the great bell of Saint Martin of Tours
had broken off their conference rather suddenly. That old man, he thought to himself, was crabbed
and dogged in appearance, sharp and scornful in language, but generous and liberal in his actions;
and such a stranger is worth a cold kinsman.

"What says our old Scottish proverb?--'Better kind fremit, than fremit kindred.' ['Better kind
strangers than estranged kindred.' The motto is engraved on a dirk, belonging to a person who
had but too much reason to choose such a device. It was left by him to my father. The weapon
is now in my possession. S.] I will find out that man, which, methinks, should be no difficult
task, since he is so wealthy as mine host bespeaks him. He will give me good advice for my
governance, at least; and if he goes to strange countries, as many such do, I know not but
his may be as adventurous a service as that of those Guards of Louis."

As Quentin framed this thought, a whisper from those recesses of the heart in which lies much
that the owner does not know of, or will not acknowledge willingly, suggested that, perchance,
the lady of the turret, she of the veil and lute, might share that adventurous journey. As
the Scottish youth made these reflections, he met two grave looking men, apparently citizens
of Tours, whom, doffing his cap with the reverence due from youth to age, he respectfully asked
to direct him to the house of Maitre Pierre.

"The house of whom, my fair son?" said one of the passengers.

"Of Maitre Pierre, the great silk merchant, who planted all the mulberry trees in the park
yonder," said Durward.

"Young man," said one of them who was nearest to him, "you have taken up an idle trade a little
too early."

"And have chosen wrong subjects to practise your fooleries upon," said the farther one, still
more gruffly. "The Syndic of Tours is not accustomed to be thus talked to by strolling jesters
from foreign parts."

Quentin was so much surprised at the causeless offence which these two decent looking persons
had taken at a very simple and civil question, that he forgot to be angry at the rudeness of
their reply, and stood staring after them as they walked on with amended pace, often looking
back at him, as if they were desirous to get as soon as possible out of his reach.

He next met a party of vine dressers, and addressed to them the same question; and in reply,
they demanded to know whether he wanted Maitre Pierre, the schoolmaster? or Maitre Pierre,
the carpenter? or Maitre Pierre, the beadle? or half a dozen of Maitre Pierres besides. When
none of these corresponded with the description of the person after whom he inquired, the peasants
accused him of jesting with them impertinently, and threatened to fall upon him and beat him,
in guerdon of his raillery. The oldest amongst them, who had some influence over the rest,
prevailed on them to desist from violence.

"You see by his speech and his fool's cap," said he, "that he is one of the foreign mountebanks
who are come into the country, and whom some call magicians and soothsayers, and some jugglers,
and the like, and there is no knowing what tricks they have amongst them. I have heard of such
a one's paying a liard [a small copper coin worth a quarter of a cent, current in France in
the fifteenth century.] to eat his bellyfull of grapes in a poor man's vineyard; and he ate
as many as would have loaded a wain, and never undid a button of his jerkin--and so let him
pass quietly, and keep his way, as we will keep ours.--And you, friend, if you would shun worse,
walk quietly on, in the name of God, our Lady of Marmoutier, and Saint Martin of Tours, and
trouble us no more about your Maitre Pierre, which may be another name for the devil, for aught
we know."

The Scot finding himself much the weaker party, judged it his Wisest course to walk on without
reply; but the peasants, who at first shrunk from him in horror, at his supposed talents for
sorcery and grape devouring, took heart of grace as he got to a distance, and having uttered
a few cries and curses, finally gave them emphasis with a shower of stones, although at such
a distance as to do little or no harm to the object of their displeasure. Quentin, as he pursued
his walk, began to think, in his turn, either that he himself lay under a spell, or that the
people of Touraine were the most stupid, brutal, and inhospitable of the French peasants. The
next incident which came under his observation did not tend to diminish this opinion.

On a slight eminence, rising above the rapid and beautiful Cher, in the direct line of his
path, two or three large chestnut trees were so happily placed as to form a distinguished and
remarkable group; and beside them stood three or four peasants, motionless, with their eyes
turned upwards, and fixed, apparently, upon some object amongst the branches of the tree next
to them. The meditations of youth are seldom so profound as not to yield to the slightest,
impulse of curiosity, as easily as the lightest pebble, dropped casually from the hand, breaks
the surface of a limpid pool. Quentin hastened his pace, and ran lightly up the rising ground,
in time enough to witness the ghastly spectacle which attracted the notice of these gazers--which
was nothing less than the body of a man, convulsed by the last agony, suspended on one of the
branches.

"Why do you not cut him down?" said the young Scot, whose hand was as ready to assist affliction,
as to maintain his own honour when he deemed it assailed.

One of the peasants, turning on him an eye from which fear had banished all expression but
its own, and a face as pale as clay, pointed to a mark cut upon the bark of the tree, having
the same rude resemblance to a fleur de lys which certain talismanic scratches, well known
to our revenue officers, bear to a broad arrow. Neither understanding nor heeding the import
of this symbol, young Durward sprung lightly as the ounce up into the tree, drew from his pouch
that most necessary implement of a Highlander or woodsman, the trusty skene dhu [black knife;
a species of knife without clasp or hinge formerly much used by the Highlanders, who seldom
travelled without such an ugly weapon, though it is now rarely used. S.], and, calling to those
below to receive the body on their hands, cut the rope asunder in less than a minute after
he had perceived the exigency.

But his humanity was ill seconded by the bystanders. So far from rendering Durward any assistance,
they seemed terrified at the audacity of his action, and took to flight with one consent, as
if they feared their merely looking on might have been construed into accession to his daring
deed. The body, unsupported from beneath, fell heavily to earth in such a manner that Quentin,
who presently afterwards jumped down, had the mortification to see that the last sparks of
life were extinguished. He gave not up his charitable purpose, however, without farther efforts.
He freed the wretched man's neck from the fatal noose, undid the doublet, threw water on the
face, and practised the other ordinary remedies resorted to for recalling suspended animation.

While he was thus humanely engaged, a wild clamour of tongues, speaking a language which he
knew not, arose around him; and he had scarcely time to observe that he was surrounded by several
men and women of a singular and foreign appearance, when he found himself roughly seized by
both arms, while a naked knife, at the same moment, was offered to his throat.

"Pale slave of Eblis!" [in Mohammedan religion the name of the chief of the fallen angels]
said a man, in imperfect French, "are you robbing him you have murdered?--But we have you--and
you shall abuy it."

There were knives drawn on every side of him, as these words were spoken, and the grim and
distorted countenances which glared on him were like those of wolves rushing on their prey.

Still the young Scot's courage and presence of mind bore him out. "What mean ye, my masters?"
he said; "if that be your friend's body, I have just now cut him down, in pure charity, and
you will do better to try to recover his life, than to misuse an innocent stranger to whom
he owes his chance of escape."

The women had by this time taken possession of the dead body, and continued the attempts to
recover animation which Durward had been making use of, though with the like bad success; so
that, desisting from their fruitless efforts, they seemed to abandon themselves to all the
Oriental expressions of grief; the women making a piteous wailing, and tearing their long black
hair, while the men seemed to rend their garments, and to sprinkle dust upon their heads. They
gradually became so much engaged in their mourning rites, that they bestowed no longer any
attention on Durward, of whose innocence they were probably satisfied from circumstances. It
would certainly have been his wisest plan to have left these wild people to their own courses,
but he had been bred in almost reckless contempt of danger, and felt all the eagerness of youthful
curiosity.

The singular assemblage, both male and female, wore turbans and caps, more similar in general
appearance to his own bonnet than to the hats commonly worn in France. Several of the men had
curled black beards, and the complexion of all was nearly as dark as that of Africans. One
or two who seemed their chiefs, had some tawdry ornaments of silver about their necks and in
their ears, and wore showy scarfs of yellow, or scarlet, or light green; but their legs and
arms were bare, and the whole troop seemed wretched and squalid in appearance. There were no
weapons among them that Durward saw, except the long knives with which they had lately menaced
him, and one short, crooked sabre, or Moorish sword, which was worn by an active looking young
man, who often laid his hand upon the hill, while he surpassed the rest of the party in his
extravagant expressions of grief, and seemed to mingle with them threats of vengeance.

The disordered and yelling group were so different in appearance from any beings whom Quentin
had yet seen, that he was on the point of concluding them to be a party of Saracens, of those
"heathen hounds," who were the opponents of gentle knights and Christian monarchs in all the
romances which he had heard or read, and was about to withdraw himself from a neighbourhood
so perilous, when a galloping of horse was heard, and the supposed Saracens, who had raised
by this time the body of their comrade upon their shoulders, were at once charged by a party
of French soldiers.

This sudden apparition changed the measured wailing of the mourners into irregular shrieks
of terror. The body was thrown to the ground in an instant, and those who were around it showed
the utmost and most dexterous activity in escaping under the bellies as it were of the horses,
from the point of the lances which were levelled at them, with exclamations of "Down with the
accursed heathen thieves--take and kill--bind them like beasts--spear them like wolves!"

These cries were accompanied with corresponding acts of violence; but such was the alertness
of the fugitives, the ground being rendered unfavourable to the horsemen by thickets and bushes,
that only two were struck down and made prisoners, one of whom was the young fellow with the
sword, who had previously offered some resistance. Quentin, whom fortune seemed at this period
to have chosen for the butt of her shafts, was at the same time seized by the soldiers, and
his arms, in spite of his remonstrances, bound down with a cord; those who apprehended him
showing a readiness and dispatch in the operation, which proved them to be no novices in matters
of police.

Looking anxiously to the leader of the horsemen, from whom he hoped to obtain liberty, Quentin
knew not exactly whether to be pleased or alarmed upon recognising in him the down looking
and silent companion of Maitre Pierre. True, whatever crime these strangers might be accused
of, this officer might know, from the history of the morning, that he, Durward, had no connection
with them whatever; but it was a more difficult question, whether this sullen man would be
either a favourable judge or a willing witness in his behalf, and he felt doubtful whether
he would mend his condition by making any direct application to him.

But there was little leisure for hesitation. "Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre," said the down
looking officer to two of his band, "These same trees stand here quite convenient. I will teach
these misbelieving, thieving sorcerers to interfere with the King's justice, when it has visited
any of their accursed race. Dismount, my children, and do your office briskly."

Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre were in an instant on foot, and Quentin observed that they
had each, at the crupper and pommel of his saddle, a coil or two of ropes, which they hastily
undid, and showed that, in fact, each coil formed a halter, with the fatal noose adjusted,
ready for execution. The blood ran cold in Quentin's veins, when he saw three cords selected,
and perceived that it was proposed to put one around his own neck. He called on the officer
loudly, reminded him of their meeting that morning, claimed the right of a free born Scotsman
in a friendly and allied country, and denied any knowledge of the persons along with whom he
was seized, or of their misdeed.

The officer whom Durward thus addressed, scarce deigned to look at him while he was speaking,
and took no notice whatever of the claim he preferred to prior acquaintance. He barely turned
to one or two of the peasants who were now come forward, either to volunteer their evidence
against the prisoners, or out of curiosity, and said gruffly, "Was yonder young fellow with
the vagabonds?"

"That he was, sir, and it please your noble Provostship," answered one of the clowns; "he was
the very first blasphemously to cut down the rascal whom his Majesty's justice most deservedly
hung up, as we told your worship."

"I'll swear by God, and Saint Martin of Tours, to have seen him with their gang," said another,
"when they pillaged our metairie [a small farm]."

"Nay, but," said a boy, "yonder heathen was black, and this youth is fair; yonder one had short
curled hair, and this hath long fair locks."

"Ay, child," said the peasant, "and perhaps you will say yonder one had a green coat and this
a gray jerkin. But his worship, the Provost, knows that they can change their complexions as
easily as their jerkins, so that I am still minded he was the same."

"It is enough that you have seen him intermeddle with the course of the King's justice, by
attempting to recover an executed traitor," said the officer.--"Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre,
dispatch."

"Stay, signior officer!" exclaimed the youth in mortal agony; "hear me speak--let me not die
guiltlessly--my blood will be required of you by my countrymen in this world, and by Heaven's
justice in that which is to follow."

"I will answer for my actions in both," said the Provost, coldly, and made a sign with his
left hand to the executioners; then, with a smile of triumphant malice, touched with his forefinger
his right arm, which hung suspended in a scarf, disabled probably by the blow which Durward
had dealt him that morning.

"Miserable, vindictive wretch!" answered Quentin, persuaded by that action that private revenge
was the sole motive of this man's rigour, and that no mercy whatever was to be expected from him.

"The poor youth raves," said the functionary: "speak a word of comfort to him ere he make his
transit, Trois Eschelles; thou art a comfortable man in such cases when a confessor is not
to be had. Give him one minute of ghostly advice, and dispatch matters in the next. I must
proceed on the rounds.--Soldiers, follow me!"

The Provost rode on, followed by his guard, excepting two or three, who were left to assist
in the execution. The unhappy youth cast after him an eye almost darkened by despair, and thought
he heard in every tramp of his horse's retreating hoofs the last slight chance of his safety
vanish. He looked around him in agony, and was surprised, even in that moment, to see the stoical
indifference of his fellow prisoners. They had previously testified every sign of fear, and
made every effort of escape; but now, when secured and destined apparently to inevitable death,
they awaited its arrival with the utmost composure. The scene of fate before them gave, perhaps,
a more yellow tinge to their swarthy cheeks; but it neither agitated their features, nor quenched
the stubborn haughtiness of their eye. They seemed like foxes, which, after all their wiles
and artful attempts at escape are exhausted, die with a silent and sullen fortitude which wolves
and bears, the fiercer objects of the chase, do not exhibit. They were undaunted by the conduct
of the fatal executioners, who went about their work with more deliberation than their master
had recommended, and which probably arose from their having acquired by habit a sort of pleasure
in the discharge of their horrid office. We pause an instant to describe them, because, under
a tyranny, whether despotic or popular, the character of the hangman becomes a subject of grave
importance.

These functionaries were essentially different in their appearance and manners. Louis used
to call them Democritus and Heraclitus, and their master, the Provost, termed them Jean qui
pleure and Jean qui rit.

[Democritus and Heraclitus: two Greek philosophers of the fifth century; the former because
of his propensity to laugh at the follies of men was called the "laughing philosopher;" the
latter, according to a current notion, probably unfounded, habitually wept over the follies
of mankind]

[Jean qui pleure, and Jean qui rit: John who weeps and John who laughs. One of these two persons,..
might with more accuracy have been called Petit Jean, than Petit Andre. This was actually the
name of the son of Henry de Cousin, master executioner of the High Court of Justice. S.]

Trois Eschelles was a tall, thin, ghastly man, with a peculiar gravity of visage, and a large
rosary round his neck, the use of which he was accustomed piously to offer to those sufferers
on whom he did his duty. He had one or two Latin texts continually in his mouth on the nothingness
and vanity of human life; and, had it been regular to have enjoyed such a plurality, he might
have held the office of confessor to the jail in commendam with that of executioner. Petit
Andre, on the contrary, was a joyous looking, round, active, little fellow, who rolled about
in execution of his duty as if it were the most diverting occupation in the world. He seemed
to have a sort of fond affection for his victims, and always spoke of them in kindly and affectionate
terms. They were his poor honest fellows, his pretty dears, his gossips, his good old fathers,
as their age or sex might be; and as Trois Eschelles endeavoured to inspire them with a philosophical
or religious regard to futurity, Petit Andre seldom failed to refresh them with a jest or two,
as if to induce them to pass from life as something that was ludicrous, contemptible, and not
worthy of serious consideration.

I cannot tell why or wherefore it was, but these two excellent persons, notwithstanding the
variety of their talents, and the rare occurrence of such among persons of their profession,
were both more utterly detested than perhaps any creatures of their kind, whether before or
since; and the only doubt of those who knew aught of them was, whether the grave and pathetic
Trois Eschelles or the frisky, comic, alert Petit Andre was the object of the greatest fear,
or of the deepest execration. It is certain they bore the palm in both particulars over every
hangman in France, unless it were perhaps their master Tristan l'Hermite, the renowned Provost
Marshal, or his master, Louis XI.

It must not be supposed that these reflections were of Quentin Durward's making. Life, death,
time, and eternity were swimming before his eyes--a stunning and overwhelming prospect, from
which human nature recoiled in its weakness, though human pride would fain have borne up. He
addressed himself to the God of his fathers; and when he did so, the little rude and unroofed
chapel, which now held almost all his race but himself, rushed on his recollection.

"Our feudal enemies gave my kindred graves in our own land," he thought, "but I must feed the
ravens and kites of a foreign land, like an excommunicated felon!"

The tears gushed involuntarily from his eyes. Trois Eschelles, touching one shoulder, gravely
congratulated him on his heavenly disposition for death, and pathetically exclaiming, Beati
qui in Domino moriuntur [blessed are they who die in the Lord], remarked, the soul was happy
that left the body while the tear was in the eye. Petit Andre, slapping the other shoulder,
called out, "Courage, my fair son! since you must begin the dance, let the ball open gaily,
for all the rebecs are in tune," twitching the halter at the same time, to give point to his
joke. As the youth turned his dismayed looks, first on one and then on the other, they made
their meaning plainer by gently urging him forward to the fatal tree, and bidding him be of
good courage, for it would be over in a moment.

In this fatal predicament, the youth cast a distracted look around him. "Is there any good
Christian who hears me," he said, "that will tell Ludovic Lesly of the Scottish Guard, called
in this country Le Balafre, that his nephew is here basely murdered?" The words were spoken
in good time, for an Archer of the Scottish Guard, attracted by the preparations for the execution,
was standing by, with one or two other chance passengers, to witness what was passing.

"Take heed what you do," he said to the executioners, "if this young man be of Scottish birth,
I will not permit him to have foul play."

"Heaven forbid, Sir Cavalier," said Trois Eschelles; "but we must obey our orders," drawing
Durward forward by one arm. "The shortest play is ever the fairest," said Petit Andre, pulling
him onward by the other.

But Quentin had heard words of comfort, and, exerting his strength, he suddenly shook off both
the finishers of the law, and, with his arms still bound, ran to the Scottish Archer. "Stand
by me, countryman," he said, in his own language, "for the love of Scotland and Saint Andrew!
I am innocent--I am your own native landsman. Stand by me, as you shall answer at the last day."

"By Saint Andrew! they shall make at you through me!" said the Archer, and unsheathed his sword.

"Cut my bonds, countryman," said Quentin, "and I will do something for myself."

This was done with a touch of the Archer's weapon, and the liberated captive, springing suddenly
on one of the Provost's guard, wrested from him a halbert with which he was armed. "And now"
he said, "come on, if you dare."

The two officers whispered together.

"Ride thou after the Provost Marshal," said Trois Eschelles, "and I will detain them here,
if I can. Soldiers of the Provost's guard, stand to your arms."

Petit Andre mounted his horse, and left the field, and the other Marshals men in attendance
drew together so hastily at the command of Trois Eschelles, that they suffered the other two
prisoners to make their escape during the confusion. Perhaps they were not very anxious to
detain them; for they had of late been sated with the blood of such wretches, and, like other
ferocious animals, were, through long slaughter, become tired of carnage. But the pretext was,
that they thought themselves immediately called upon to attend to the safety of Trois Eschelles;
for there was a jealousy, which occasionally led to open quarrels, betwixt the Scottish Archers
and the Marshal guards, who executed the orders of their Provost.

"We are strong enough to beat the proud Scots twice over, if it be your pleasure," said one
of these soldiers to Trois Eschelles.

But that cautious official made a sign to him to remain quiet, and addressed the Scottish Archer
with great civility. "Surely, sir, this is a great insult to the Provost Marshal, that you
should presume to interfere with the course of the King's justice, duly and lawfully committed
to his charge; and it is no act of justice to me, who am in lawful possession of my criminal.
Neither is it a well meant kindness to the youth himself, seeing that fifty opportunities of
hanging him may occur, without his being found in so happy a state of preparation as he was
before your ill advised interference."

"If my young countryman," said the Scot, smiling, "be of opinion I have done him an injury,
I will return him to your charge without a word more dispute."

"No, no!--for the love of Heaven, no!" exclaimed Quentin. "I would rather you swept my head
off with your long sword--it would better become my birth, than to die by the hands of such
a foul churl."

"Hear how he revileth," said the finisher of the law. "Alas! how soon our best resolutions
pass away!--he was in a blessed frame for departure but now, and in two minutes he has become
a contemner of authorities."

"Tell me at once," said the Archer, "what has this young man done."

"Interfered," answered Trois Eschelles, with some earnestness, "to take down the dead body
of a criminal, when the fleur de lys was marked on the tree where he was hung with my own proper
hand."

"How is this, young man?" said the Archer; "how came you to have committed such an offence?"

"As I desire your protection," answered Durward, "I will tell you the truth as if I were at
confession. I saw a man struggling on the tree, and I went to cut him down out of mere humanity.
I thought neither of fleur de lys nor of clove gilliflower, and had no more idea of offending
the King of France than our Father the Pope."

"What a murrain had you to do with the dead body, then?" said the Archer. "You 'll see them
hanging, in the rear of this gentleman, like grapes on every tree, and you will have enough
to do in this country if you go a-gleaning after the hangman. However, I will not quit a countryman's
cause if I can help it.--Hark ye, Master Marshals man, you see this is entirely a mistake.
You should have some compassion on so young a traveller. In our country at home he has not
been accustomed to see such active proceedings as yours and your master's."

"Not for want of need of them, Signior Archer," said Petit Andre, who returned at this moment.
"Stand fast, Trois Eschelles, for here comes the Provost Marshal; we shall presently see how
he will relish having his work taken out of his hand before it is finished."

"And in good time," said the Archer, "here come some of my comrades."

Accordingly, as the Provost Tristan rode up with his patrol on one side of the little bill
which was the scene of the altercation, four or five Scottish Archers came as hastily up on
the other, and at their head the Balafre himself.

Upon this urgency, Lesly showed none of that indifference towards his nephew of which Quentin
had in his heart accused him; for he no sooner saw his comrade and Durward standing upon their
defence, than he exclaimed, "Cunningham, I thank thee.--Gentlemen--comrades, lend me your aid.--It
is a young Scottish gentleman--my nephew--Lindesay--Guthrie--Tyrie, draw, and strike in!"

There was now every prospect of a desperate scuffle between the parties, who were not so disproportioned
in numbers but that the better arms of the Scottish cavaliers gave them an equal chance of
victory. But the Provost Marshal, either doubting the issue of the conflict, or aware that
it would be disagreeable to the King, made a sign to his followers to forbear from violence,
while he demanded of Balafre, who now put himself forward as the head of the other party, what
he, a cavalier of the King's Bodyguard, purposed by opposing the execution of a criminal.

"I deny that I do so," answered the Balafre. "Saint Martin! [patron saint of Tours, Lucca,
and of penitent drunkards. He was greatly honoured in the Middle Ages.] there is, I think,
some difference between the execution of a criminal and a slaughter of my own nephew!"

"Your nephew may be a criminal as well as another," said the Provost Marshal; "and every stranger
in France is amenable to the laws of France."

"Yes, but we have privileges, we Scottish Archers," said Balafre, "have we not, comrades?"

"Yes, yes," they all exclaimed together. "Privileges--privileges! Long live King Louis--long
live the bold Balafre--long live the Scottish Guard--and death to all who would infringe our
privileges!"

"Take reason with you, gentlemen cavaliers," said the Provost Marshal; "consider my commission."

"We will have no reason at your hand," said Cunningham; "our own officers shall do us reason.
We will be judged by the King's grace, or by our own Captain, now that the Lord High Constable
is not in presence."

"And we will be hanged by none," said Lindesay, "but Sandie Wilson, the auld Marshals man of
our ain body."

"It would be a positive cheating of Sandie, who is as honest a man as ever tied noose upon
hemp, did we give way to any other proceeding," said the Balafre. "Were I to be hanged myself,
no other should tie tippet about my craig."

"But hear ye," said the Provost Marshal, "this young fellow belongs not to you, and cannot
share what you call your privileges."

"What we call our privileges, all shall admit to be such," said Cunningham.

"We will not hear them questioned!" was the universal cry of the Archers.

"Ye are mad, my masters," said Tristan l'Hermite. "No one disputes your privileges; but this
youth is not one of you."

"He is my nephew," said the Balafre, with a triumphant air.

"But no Archer of the Guard, I think," retorted Tristan l'Hermite.

The Archers looked on each other in some uncertainty.

"Stand to it yet, comrade," whispered Cunningham to Balafre. "Say he is engaged with us."

"Saint Martin! you say well, fair countryman," answered Lesly; and raising his voice, swore
that he had that day enrolled his kinsman as one of his own retinue. This declaration was a
decisive argument.

"It is well, gentlemen," said the Provost Tristan, who was aware of the King's nervous apprehension
of disaffection creeping in among his Guards. "You know, as you say, your privileges, and it
is not my duty to have brawls with the King's Guards, if it is to be avoided. But I will report
this matter for the King's own decision; and I would have you to be aware, that, in doing so,
I act more mildly than perhaps my duty warrants."

So saying, he put his troop into motion, while the Archers, remaining on the spot, held a hasty
consultation what was next to be done. "We must report the matter to Lord Crawford, our Captain,
in the first place, and have the young fellow's name put on the roll."

"But, gentlemen, and my worthy friends and preservers," said Quentin, with some hesitation,
"I have not yet determined whether to take service with you or no."

"Then settle in your own mind," said his uncle, "whether you choose to do so, or be hanged--for
I promise you, that, nephew of mine as you are, I see no other chance of your 'scaping the
gallows."

This was an unanswerable argument, and reduced Quentin at once to acquiesce in what he might
have otherwise considered as no very agreeable proposal; but the recent escape from the halter,
which had been actually around his neck, would probably have reconciled him to a worse alternative
than was proposed.

"He must go home with us to our caserne," said Cunningham; "there is no safety for him out
of our bounds, whilst these man hunters are prowling."

"May I not then abide for this night at the hostelry where I breakfasted, fair uncle?" said
the youth--thinking, perhaps, like many a new recruit, that even a single night of freedom
was something gained.

"Yes, fair nephew," answered his uncle, ironically, "that we may have the pleasure of fishing
you out of some canal or moat, or perhaps out of a loop of the Loire, knit up in a sack for
the greater convenience of swimming--for that is like to be the end on't. The Provost Marshal
smiled on us when we parted," continued he, addressing Cunningham, "and that is a sign his
thoughts were dangerous."

"I care not for his danger," said Cunningham; "such game as we are beyond his bird bolts. But
I would have thee tell the whole to the Devil's Oliver [Oliver Dain: Oliver's name, or nickname,
was Le Diable, which was bestowed on him by public hatred, in exchange for Le Daim, or Le Dain.
He was originally the King's barber, but afterwards a favourite counsellor. S.], who is always
a good friend to the Scottish Guard, and will see Father Louis before the Provost can, for
he is to shave him tomorrow."

"But hark you," said Balafre, "it is ill going to Oliver empty handed, and I am as bare as
the birch in December."

"So are we all," said Cunningham. "Oliver must not scruple to take our Scottish words for once.
We will make up something handsome among us against the next payday; and if he expects to share,
let me tell you, the payday will come about all the sooner."

"And now for the Chateau," said Balafre; "and my nephew shall tell us by the way how he brought
the Provost Marshal on his shoulders, that we may know how to frame our report both to Crawford
and Oliver."

CHAPTER VII: THE ENROLMENT

     Justice of Peace.--
     Here, hand me down the statute--read the articles--
     Swear, kiss the book--subscribe, and be a hero;
     Drawing a portion from the public stock
     For deeds of valour to be done hereafter--
     Sixpence per day, subsistence and arrears.

     THE RECRUITING OFFICER

An attendant upon the Archers having been dismounted, Quentin Durward was accommodated with
his horse, and, in company of his martial countrymen, rode at a round pace towards the Castle
of Plessis, about to become, although on his own part involuntarily, an inhabitant of that
gloomy fortress, the outside of which had, that morning, struck him with so much surprise.

In the meanwhile, in answer to his uncle's repeated interrogations, he gave him an exact account
of the accident which had that morning brought him into so much danger. Although he himself
saw nothing in his narrative save what was affecting, he found it was received with much laughter
by his escort.

"And yet it is no good jest either," said his uncle, "for what, in the devil's name, could
lead the senseless boy to meddle with the body of a cursed misbelieving Jewish Moorish pagan?"

"Had he quarrelled with the Marshals men about a pretty wench, as Michael of Moffat did, there
had been more sense in it," said Cunningham.

"But I think it touches our honour that Tristan and his people pretend to confound our Scottish
bonnets with these pilfering vagabonds--torques and turbands, as they call them," said Lindesay.
"If they have not eyes to see the difference they must be taught by rule of hand. But it 's
my belief, Tristan but pretends to mistake, that he may snap up the kindly Scots that come
over to see their kinsfolks."

"May I ask, kinsman," said Quentin, "what sort of people these are of whom you speak?"

"In troth you may ask," said his uncle, "but I know not, fair nephew, who is able to answer
you. Not I, I am sure, although I know, it may be, as much as other people; but they appeared
in this land within a year or two, just as a flight of locusts might do."

"Ay," said Lindesay, "and Jacques Bonhomme (that is our name for the peasant, young man--you
will learn our way of talk in time)--honest Jacques, I say, cares little what wind either brings
them or the locusts, so he but knows any gale that would carry them away again."

"Do they do so much evil?" asked the young man.

"Evil? why, boy, they are heathens, or Jews, or Mahommedans at the least, and neither worship
Our Lady, nor the Saints" (crossing himself) "and steal what they can lay hands on, and sing,
and tell fortunes," added Cunningham.

"And they say there are some goodly wenches amongst these," said Guthrie; "but Cunningham knows
that best."

"How, brother!" said Cunningham. "I trust ye mean me no reproach?"

"I am sure I said ye none," answered Guthrie.

"I will be judged by the company," said Cunningham. "Ye said as much as that I, a Scottish
gentleman, and living within pale of holy church, had a fair friend among these off scourings
of Heathenesse."

"Nay, nay," said Balafre, "he did but jest. We will have no quarrels among comrades."

"We must have no such jesting then," said Cunningham, murmuring, as if he had been speaking
to his own beard.

"Be there such vagabonds in other lands than France?" said Lindesay.

"Ay, in good sooth, are there--tribes of them have appeared in Germany, and in Spain, and in
England," answered Balafre. "By the blessing of good Saint Andrew, Scotland is free of them yet."

"Scotland," said Cunningham, "is too cold, a country for locusts, and too poor a country for
thieves."

"Or perhaps John Highlander will suffer no thieves to thrive there but his own," said Guthrie.

"I let you all know," said Balafre, "that I come from the Braes of Angus, and have gentle Highland
kin in Glen Isla and I will not have the Highlanders slandered."

"You will not deny that they are cattle lifters?" said Guthrie.

"To drive a spreagh [to plunder] or so, is no thievery," said Balafre, "and that I will maintain
when and how you dare."

"For shame, comrade!" said Cunningham, "who quarrels now? The young man should not see such
mad misconstruction--Come, here we are at the Chateau. I will bestow a runlet of wine to have
a rouse in friendship, and drink to Scotland, Highland and Lowland both, if you will meet me
at dinner at my quarters."

"Agreed--agreed," said Balafre; "and I will bestow another to wash away unkindness, and to
drink a health to my nephew on his first entrance to our corps."

At their approach, the wicket was opened, and the drawbridge fell. One by one they entered;
but when Quentin appeared, the sentinels crossed their pikes, and commanded him to stand, while
bows were bent, and harquebusses aimed at him from the walls, a rigour of vigilance used, notwithstanding
that the young stranger came in company of a party of the garrison, nay, of the very body which
furnished the sentinels who were then upon duty.

Le Balafre, who had remained by his nephew's side on purpose, gave the necessary explanations,
and, after some considerable hesitation and delay, the youth was conveyed under a strong guard
to the Lord Crawford's apartment.

This Scottish nobleman was one of the last relics of the gallant band of Scottish lords and
knights who had so long and so truly served Charles VI in those bloody wars which decided the
independence of the French crown, and the expulsion of the English. He had fought, when a boy,
abreast with Douglas and with Buchan, had ridden beneath the banner of the Maid of Arc, and
was perhaps one of the last of those associates of Scottish chivalry who had so willingly drawn
their swords for the fleur de lys, against their "auld enemies of England." Changes which had
taken place in the Scottish kingdom, and perhaps his having become habituated to French climate
and manners, had induced the old Baron to resign all thoughts of returning to his native country,
the rather that the high office which he held in the household of Louis and his own frank and
loyal character had gained a considerable ascendancy over the King, who, though in general
no ready believer in human virtue or honour, trusted and confided in those of the Lord Crawford,
and allowed him the greater influence, because he was never known to interfere excepting in
matters which concerned his charge.

[Douglas: fourth earl of Douglas. He was created Duke of Touraine in 1423 by Charles VII of
France.]

[Buchan: Regent of Scotland and grandson of Robert II. He entered the service of Charles VII
in 1420, and was appointed Constable of France.]

[Maid of Arc (1412-1431): Joan of Arc. She believed that God had called her to liberate France
from the curse of the English who were besieging Orleans. In person she led the French troops
from victory to victory until she saw the Dauphin crowned as Charles VII at Rheims. She was
then betrayed by her people into the hands of the English, who, in 1431, sentenced her to the
flames.]

Balafre and Cunningham followed Durward and the guard to the apartment of their officer, by
whose dignified appearance, as well as with the respect paid to him by these proud soldiers,
who seemed to respect no one else, the young man was much and strongly impressed.

Lord Crawford was tall, and through advanced age had become gaunt and thin; yet retaining in
his sinews the strength, at least, if not the elasticity, of youth, he was able to endure the
weight of his armour during a march as well as the youngest man who rode in his band. He was
hard favoured, with a scarred and weather-beaten countenance, and an eye that had looked upon
death as his playfellow in thirty pitched battles, but which nevertheless expressed a calm
contempt of danger, rather than the ferocious courage of a mercenary soldier. His tall, erect
figure was at present wrapped in a loose chamber gown, secured around him by his buff belt,
in which was suspended his richly hilted poniard. He had round his neck the collar and badge
of the order of Saint Michael [a patron saint of France. In 1469, a military order was instituted
in his honour by Louis XI]. He sat upon a couch covered with deer's hide, and with spectacles
on his nose (then a recent invention) was labouring to read a huge manuscript called the Rosier
de la Guerre, a code of military and civil policy which Louis had compiled for the benefit
of his son the Dauphin, and upon which he was desirous to have the opinion of the experienced
Scottish warrior.

Lord Crawford laid his book somewhat peevishly aside upon the entrance of these unexpected
visitors, and demanded, in his broad national dialect, what, in the foul fiend's name, they
lacked now.

Le Balafre, with more respect than perhaps he would have shown to Louis himself, stated at
full length the circumstances in which his nephew was placed, and humbly requested his Lordship's
protection. Lord Crawford listened very attentively. He could not but smile at the simplicity
with which the youth had interfered in behalf of the hanged criminal, but he shook his head
at the account which he received of the ruffle betwixt the Scottish Archers and the Provost
Marshal's guard.

[Such disputes between the Scots Guards and the other constituted authorities of the ordinary
military corps often occurred. In 1474, two Scotsmen had been concerned in robbing... a fishmonger
of a large sum of money. They were accordingly apprehended by Philip du Four, Provost, with
some of his followers. But ere they could lodge one of them,... in the prison of the Chastellet,
they were attacked by two Archers of the King's Scottish Guard, who rescued the prisoner.... S.]

"How often," he said, "will you bring me such ill winded pirns to ravel out? How often must
I tell you, and especially both you, Ludovic Lesly, and you, Archie Cunningham, that the foreign
soldier should bear himself modestly and decorously towards the people of the country if you
would not have the whole dogs of the town at your heels? However, if you must have a bargain
[a quarrel, videlicet. S.], I would rather it were with that loon of a Provost than any one
else; and I blame you less for this onslaught than for other frays that you have made, Ludovic,
for it was but natural and kind-like to help your young kinsman. This simple bairn must come
to no skaith [same as scathe] neither; so give me the roll of the company yonder down from
the shelf, and we will even add his name to the troop, that he may enjoy the privileges."

"May it please your Lordship" said Durward.

"Is the lad crazed?" exclaimed his uncle. "Would you speak to his Lordship without a question
asked?"

"Patience, Ludovic," said Lord Crawford, "and let us hear what the bairn has to say."

"Only this, if it may please your Lordship," replied Quentin, "that I told my uncle formerly
I had some doubts about entering this service. I have now to say that they are entirely removed,
since I have seen the noble and experienced commander under whom I am to serve; for there is
authority in your look."

"Weel said, my bairn," said the old Lord, not insensible to the compliment; "we have had some
experience, had God sent us grace to improve by it, both in service and in command. There you
stand, Quentin, in our honourable corps of Scottish Bodyguards, as esquire to your uncle, and
serving under his lance. I trust you will do well, for you should be a right man at arms, if
all be good that is upcome [that is, if your courage corresponds with your personal appearance.
S.], and you are come of a gentle kindred.--Ludovic, you will see that your kinsman follow
his exercise diligently, for we will have spears breaking one of these days."

"By my hilts, and I am glad of it, my Lord--this peace makes cowards of us all. I myself feel
a sort of decay of spirit, closed up in this cursed dungeon of a Castle."

"Well, a bird whistled in my ear," continued Lord Crawford, "that the old banner will be soon
dancing in the field again."

"I will drink a cup the deeper this evening to that very tune," said Balafre.

"Thou wilt drink to any tune," said Lord Crawford; "and I fear me, Ludovic, you will drink
a bitter browst [as much liquor as is brewed at one time] of your own brewing one day."

Lesly, a little abashed, replied that it had not been his wont for many a day; but that his
Lordship knew the use of the company, to have a carouse to the health of a new comrade.

"True," said the old leader, "I had forgot the occasion. I will send a few stoups of wine to
assist your carouse; but let it be over by sunset. And, hark ye--let the soldiers for duty
he carefully pricked off; and see that none of them be more or less partakers of your debauch."

"Your Lordship shall be lawfully obeyed," said Ludovic, "and your health duly remembered."

"Perhaps," said Lord Crawford, "I may look in myself upon your mirth--just to see that all
is carried decently."

"Your Lordship shall be most dearly welcome;" said Ludovic; and the whole party retreated in
high spirits to prepare for their military banquet, to which Lesly invited about a score of
his comrades, who were pretty much in the habit of making their mess together.

A soldier's festival is generally a very extempore affair, providing there is enough of meat
and drink to be had; but on the present occasion, Ludovic bustled about to procure some better
wine than ordinary; observing that the old Lord was the surest gear in their aught, and that,
while he preached sobriety to them, he himself, after drinking at the royal table as much wine
as he could honestly come by, never omitted any creditable opportunity to fill up the evening
over the wine pot.

"So you must prepare, comrades," he said, "to hear the old histories of the battles of Vernoil
and Beauge [in both these battles the Scottish auxiliaries of France, under Stewart, Earl of
Buchan, were distinguished.... S.]."

The Gothic apartment in which they generally met was, therefore, hastily put into the best
order; their grooms were dispatched to collect green rushes to spread upon the floor; and banners,
under which the Scottish Guard had marched to battle, or which they had taken from the enemies'
ranks, were displayed, by way of tapestry, over the table and around the walls of the chamber.

The next point was, to invest the young recruit as hastily as possible with the dress and appropriate
arms of the Guard, that he might appear in every respect the sharer of its important privileges,
in virtue of which, and by the support of his countrymen, he might freely brave the power and
the displeasure of the Provost Marshal--although the one was known to be as formidable as the
other was unrelenting.

The banquet was joyous in the highest degree; and the guests gave vent to the whole current
of their national partiality on receiving into their ranks a recruit from their beloved fatherland.
Old Scottish songs were sung, old tales of Scottish heroes told--the achievements of their
fathers, and the scenes in which they were wrought, were recalled to mind; and, for a time,
the rich plains of Touraine seemed converted into the mountainous and sterile regions of Caledonia.

When their enthusiasm was at high flood, and each was endeavouring to say something to enhance
the dear remembrance of Scotland, it received a new impulse from the arrival of Lord Crawford,
who, as Le Balafre had well prophesied, sat as it were on thorns at the royal board, until
an opportunity occurred of making his escape to the revelry of his own countrymen. A chair
of state had been reserved for him at the upper end of the table; for, according to the manners
of the age and the constitution of that body, although their leader and commander under the
King and High Constable, the members of the corps (as we should now say, the privates) being
all ranked as noble by birth, their captain sat with them at the same table without impropriety,
and might mingle when he chose in their festivity, without derogation from his dignity as commander.

At present, however, Lord Crawford declined occupying the seat prepared for him, and bidding
them "hold themselves merry," stood looking on the revel with a countenance which seemed greatly
to enjoy it.

"Let him alone," whispered Cunningham to Lindesay, as the latter offered the wine to their
noble captain, "let him alone--hurry no man's cattle--let him take it of his own accord."

In fact, the old Lord, who at first smiled, shook his head, and placed the untasted winecup
before him, began presently, as if it were in absence of mind, to sip a little of the contents,
and in doing so, fortunately recollected that it would be ill luck did he not drink a draught
to the health of the gallant lad who had joined them this day. The pledge was filled, and answered,
as may well be supposed, with many a joyous shout, when the old leader proceeded to acquaint
them that he had possessed Master Oliver with an account of what had passed that day.

"And as," he said, "the scraper of chins hath no great love for the stretcher of throats, he
has joined me in obtaining from the King an order, commanding the Provost to suspend all proceedings,
under whatever pretence, against Quentin Durward; and to respect, on all occasions, the privileges
of the Scottish guard."

Another shout broke forth, the cups were again filled till the wine sparkled on the brim, and
there was an acclaim to the health of the noble Lord Crawford, the brave conservator of the
privileges and rights of his countrymen. The good old Lord could not but in courtesy do reason
to this pledge also, and gliding into the ready chair; as it were, without reflecting what
he was doing, he caused Quentin to come up beside him, and assailed him with many more questions
concerning the state of Scotland, and the great families there, than he was well able to answer,
while ever and anon, in the course of his queries, the good Lord kissed the wine cup by way
of parenthesis, remarking that sociality became Scottish gentlemen, but that young men, like
Quentin, ought to practise it cautiously, lest it might degenerate into excess; upon which
occasion he uttered many excellent things, until his own tongue, although employed in the praises
of temperance, began to articulate something thicker than usual. It was now that, while the
military ardour of the company augmented with each flagon which they emptied, Cunningham called
on them to drink the speedy hoisting of the Oriflamme, the royal banner of France.

"And a breeze of Burgundy to fan it!" echoed Lindesay.

"With all the soul that is left in this worn body do I accept the pledge, bairns," echoed Lord
Crawford; "and as old as I am, I trust I may see it flutter yet. Hark ye, my mates," (for wine
had made him something communicative), "ye are all true servants to the French crown, and wherefore
should ye not know there is an envoy come from Duke Charles of Burgundy, with a message of
an angry favour?"

"I saw the Count of Crevecoeur's equipage, horses, and retinue," said another of the guests,
"down at the inn yonder at the Mulberry Grove. They say the King will not admit him into the
Castle."

"Now, Heaven send him an ungracious answer!" said Guthrie; "but what is it he complains of?"

"A world of grievances upon the frontier," said Lord Crawford; "and latterly, that the King
hath received under his protection a lady of his land, a young Countess, who hath fled from
Dijon, because, being a ward of the Duke, he would have her marry his favourite, Campobasso."

"And hath she actually come hither alone, my lord?" said Lindesay.

"Nay, not altogether alone, but with the old Countess, her kinswoman, who hath yielded to her
cousin's wishes in this matter."

"And will the King," said Cunningham, "he being the Duke's feudal sovereign, interfere between
the Duke and his ward, over whom Charles hath the same right, which, were he himself dead,
the King would have over the heiress of Burgundy?"

"The King will be ruled as he is wont, by rules of policy, and you know," continued Crawford,
"that he hath not publicly received these ladies, nor placed them under the protection of his
daughters, the Lady of Beaujeu, or the Princess Joan, so, doubtless, he will be guided by circumstances.
He is our Master--but it is no treason to say, he will chase with the hounds, and run with
the hare, with any prince in Christendom."

"But the Duke of Burgundy understands no such doubling;" said Cunningham.

"No," answered the old Lord; "and, therefore, it is likely to make work between them."

"Well--Saint Andrew further the fray!" said Le Balafre. "I had it foretold me ten, ay, twenty
years since, that I was to make the fortune of my house by marriage. Who knows what may happen,
if once we come to fight for honour and ladies' love, as they do in the old romaunts."

"Thou name ladies' love, with such a trench in thy visage!" said Guthrie.

"As well not love at all, as love a Bohemian woman of Heathenesse," retorted Le Balafre.

"Hold there, comrades," said Lord Crawford; "no tilting with sharp weapons, no jesting with
keen scoffs--friends all. And for the lady, she is too wealthy to fall to a poor Scottish lord,
or I would put in my own claim, fourscore years and all, or not very far from it. But here
is her health, nevertheless, for they say she is a lamp of beauty."

"I think I saw her," said another soldier, "when I was upon guard this morning at the inner
barrier; but she was more like a dark lantern than a lamp, for she and another were brought
into the Chateau in close litters."

"Shame! shame! Arnot!" said Lord Crawford; "a soldier on duty should say naught of what he
sees. Besides," he added after a pause, his own curiosity prevailing over the show of discipline
which he had thought it necessary to exert, "why should these litters contain this very same
Countess Isabelle de Croye?"

"Nay, my Lord," replied Arnot, "I know nothing of it save this, that my coutelier was airing
my horses in the road to the village, and fell in with Doguin the muleteer, who brought back
the litters to the inn, for they belong to the fellow of the Mulberry Grove yonder--he of the
Fleur de Lys, I mean--and so Doguin asked Saunders Steed to take a cup of wine, as they were
acquainted, which he was no doubt willing enough to do."

"No doubt--no doubt," said the old Lord; "it is a thing I wish were corrected among you, gentlemen;
but all your grooms, and couteliers, and jackmen as we should call them in Scotland, are but
too ready to take a cup of wine with any one.--It is a thing perilous in war, and must be amended.
But, Andrew Arnot, this is a long tale of yours, and we will cut it with a drink; as the Highlander
says, Skeoch doch nan skial ['Cut a tale with a drink;' an expression used when a man preaches
over his liquor, as bons vivants say in England. S.]; and that 's good Gaelic.--Here is to
the Countess Isabelle of Croye, and a better husband to her than Campobasso, who is a base
Italian cullion!--And now, Andrew Arnot, what said the muleteer to this yeoman of thine?"

"Why, he told him in secrecy, if it please your Lordship," continued Arnot, "that these two
ladies whom he had presently before convoyed up to the Castle in the close litters, were great
ladies, who had been living in secret at his house for some days, and that the King had visited
them more than once very privately, and had done them great honour; and that they had fled
up to the Castle, as he believed, for fear of the Count de Crevecoeur, the Duke of Burgundy's
ambassador, whose approach was just announced by an advanced courier."

"Ay, Andrew, come you there to me?" said Guthrie. "Then I will be sworn it was the Countess
whose voice I heard singing to the lute, as I came even now through the inner court--the sound
came from the bay windows of the Dauphin's Tower; and such melody was there as no one ever
heard before in the Castle of Plessis of the Park. By my faith, I thought it was the music
of the Fairy Melusina's making. There I stood--though I knew your board was covered, and that
you were all impatient--there I stood like--"

[The Fairy Melusina: a water fay who married a mortal on condition that she should be allowed
to spend her Saturdays in deep seclusion. This promise, after many years, was broken, and Melusina,
half serpent, half woman, was discovered swimming in a bath. For this breach of faith on the
part of her husband, Melusina was compelled to leave her home. She regularly returned, however,
before the death of any of the lords of her family, and by her wailings foretold that event.
Her history is closely interwoven with the legends of the Banshee and Mermaid.]

"--Like an ass, Johnny Guthrie," said his commander; "thy long nose smelling the dinner, thy
long ears hearing the music, and thy short discretion not enabling thee to decide which of
them thou didst prefer.--Hark! is that not the Cathedral bell tolling to vespers?--Sure it
cannot be that time yet? The mad old sexton has toll'd evensong an hour too soon."

"In faith, the bell rings but too justly the hour," said Cunningham; "yonder the sun is sinking
on the west side of the fair plain."

"Ay," said the Lord Crawford, "is it even so?--Well, lads, we must live within compass.--Fair
and soft goes far--slow fire makes sweet malt--to be merry and wise is a sound proverb.--One
other rouse to the weal of old Scotland, and then each man to his duty."

The parting cup was emptied, and the guests dismissed--the stately old Baron taking the Balafre's
arm, under pretence of giving him some instructions concerning his nephew, but, perhaps, in
reality, lest his own lofty pace should seem in the public eye less steady than became his
rank and high command. A serious countenance did he bear as he passed through the two courts
which separated his lodging from the festal chamber, and solemn as the gravity of a hogshead
was the farewell caution with which he prayed Ludovic to attend his nephew's motions, especially
in the matters of wenches and wine cups.

Meanwhile, not a word that was spoken concerning the beautiful Countess Isabelle had escaped
the young Durward, who, conducted into a small cabin, which he was to share with his uncle's
page, made his new and lowly abode the scene of much high musing. The reader will easily imagine
that the young soldier should build a fine romance on such a foundation as the supposed, or
rather the assumed, identification of the Maiden of the Turret, to whose lay he had listened
with so much interest, and the fair cup bearer of Maitre Pierre, with a fugitive Countess of
rank and wealth, flying from the pursuit of a hated lover, the favourite of an oppressive guardian,
who abused his feudal power. There was an interlude in Quentin's vision concerning Maitre Pierre,
who seemed to exercise such authority even over the formidable officer from whose hands he
had that day, with much difficulty, made his escape. At length the youth's reveries, which
had been respected by little Will Harper, the companion of his cell, were broken in upon by
the return of his uncle, who commanded Quentin to bed, that he might arise betimes in the morning,
and attend him to his Majesty's antechamber, to which he was called by his hour of duty, along
with five of his comrades.

     KING JOHN

Had sloth been a temptation by which Durward was easily beset, the noise with which the caserne
of the guards resounded after the first toll of primes, had certainly banished the siren from
his couch; but the discipline of his father's tower, and of the convent of Aberbrothick, had
taught him to start with the dawn; and he did on his clothes gaily, amid the sounding of bugles
and the clash of armour, which announced the change of the vigilant guards--some of whom were
returning to barracks after their nightly duty, whilst some were marching out to that of the
morning--and others, again, amongst whom was his uncle, were arming for immediate attendance
upon the person of Louis. Quentin Durward soon put on, with the feelings of so young a man
on such an occasion, the splendid dress and arms appertaining to his new situation; and his
uncle, who looked with great accuracy and interest to see that he was completely fitted out
in every respect, did not conceal his satisfaction at the improvement which had been thus made
in his nephew's appearance.

"If thou dost prove as faithful and bold as thou art well favoured, I shall have in thee one
of the handsomest and best esquires in the Guard, which cannot but be an honour to thy mother's
family. Follow me to the presence chamber; and see thou keep close at my shoulder."

So saying, he took up a partisan, large, weighty, and beautifully inlaid and ornamented, and
directing his nephew to assume a lighter weapon of a similar description, they proceeded to
the inner court of the palace, where their comrades, who were to form the guard of the interior
apartments, were already drawn up and under arms--the squires each standing behind their masters,
to whom they thus formed a second rank. Here were also in attendance many yeomen prickers,
with gallant horses and noble dogs, on which Quentin looked with such inquisitive delight that
his uncle was obliged more than once to remind him that the animals were not there for his
private amusement, but for the King's, who had a strong passion for the chase, one of the few
inclinations which he indulged even when coming in competition with his course of policy; being
so strict a protector of the game in the royal forests that it was currently said you might
kill a man with greater impunity than a stag.

On a signal given, the Guards were put into motion by the command of Le Balafre, who acted
as officer upon the occasion; and, after some minutiae of word and signal, which all served
to show the extreme and punctilious jealousy with which their duty was performed, they marched
into the hall of audience where the King was immediately expected.

New as Quentin was to scenes of splendour, the effect of that which was now before him rather
disappointed the expectations which he had formed of the brilliancy of a court. There were
household officers, indeed, richly attired; there were guards gallantly armed, and there were
domestics of various degrees. But he saw none of the ancient counsellors of the kingdom, none
of the high officers of the crown, heard none of the names which in those days sounded an alarum
to chivalry; saw none either of those generals or leaders, who, possessed of the full prime
of manhood, were the strength of France, or of the more youthful and fiery nobles, those early
aspirants after honour, who were her pride. The jealous habits, the reserved manners, the deep
and artful policy of the King, had estranged this splendid circle from the throne, and they
were only called around it upon certain stated and formal occasions, when they went reluctantly,
and returned joyfully, as the animals in the fable are supposed to have approached and left
the den of the lion.

The very few persons who seemed to be there in the character of counsellors were mean looking
men, whose countenances sometimes expressed sagacity, but whose manners showed they were called
into a sphere for which their previous education and habits had qualified them but indifferently.
One or two persons, however, did appear to Durward to possess a more noble mien, and the strictness
of the present duty was not such as to prevent his uncle's communicating the names of those
whom he thus distinguished.

With the Lord Crawford, who was in attendance, dressed in the rich habit of his office, and
holding a leading staff of silver in his hand, Quentin, as well as the reader, was already
acquainted. Among others, who seemed of quality, the most remarkable was the Count de Dunois,
the son of that celebrated Dunois, known by the name of the Bastard of Orleans, who, fighting
under the banner of Jeanne d'Arc, acted such a distinguished part in liberating France from
the English yoke. His son well supported the high renown which had descended to him from such
an honoured source; and, notwithstanding his connexion with the royal family, and his hereditary
popularity both with the nobles and the people, Dunois had, upon all occasions, manifested
such an open, frank loyalty of character that he seemed to have escaped all suspicion, even
on the part of the jealous Louis, who loved to see him near his person, and sometimes even
called him to his councils. Although accounted complete in all the exercises of chivalry, and
possessed of much of the character of what was then termed a perfect knight, the person of
the Count was far from being a model of romantic beauty. He was under the common size, though
very strongly built, and his legs rather curved outwards, into that make which is more convenient
for horseback, than elegant in a pedestrian. His shoulders were broad, his hair black, his
complexion swarthy, his arms remarkably long and nervous. The features of his countenance were
irregular, even to ugliness; yet, after all, there was an air of conscious worth and nobility
about the Count de Dunois, which stamped, at the first glance, the character of the high born
nobleman and the undaunted soldier. His mien was bold and upright, his step free and manly,
and the harshness of his countenance was dignified by a glance like an eagle, and a frown like
a lion. His dress was a hunting suit, rather sumptuous than gay, and he acted on most occasions
as Grand Huntsman, though we are not inclined to believe that he actually held the office.

Upon the arm of his relation Dunois, walking with a step so slow and melancholy that he seemed
to rest on his kinsman and supporter, came Louis Duke of Orleans, the first prince of the Blood
Royal (afterwards King, by the name of Louis XII), and to whom the guards and attendants rendered
their homage as such. The jealously watched object of Louis's suspicions, this Prince, who,
failing the King's offspring, was heir to the kingdom, was not suffered to absent himself from
Court, and, while residing there, was alike denied employment and countenance. The dejection
which his degraded and almost captive state naturally impressed on the deportment of this unfortunate
Prince, was at this moment greatly increased by his consciousness that the King meditated,
with respect to him, one of the most cruel and unjust actions which a tyrant could commit,
by compelling him to give his hand to the Princess Joan of France, the younger daughter of
Louis, to whom he had been contracted in infancy, but whose deformed person rendered the insisting
upon such an agreement an act of abominable rigour.

The exterior of this unhappy Prince was in no respect distinguished by personal advantages;
and in mind, he was of a gentle, mild and beneficent disposition, qualities which were visible
even through the veil of extreme dejection with which his natural character was at present
obscured. Quentin observed that the Duke studiously avoided even looking at the Royal Guards,
and when he returned their salute, that he kept his eyes bent on the ground, as if he feared
the King's jealousy might have construed the gesture of ordinary courtesy as arising from the
purpose of establishing a separate and personal interest among them.

Very different was the conduct of the proud Cardinal and Prelate, John of Balue, the favourite
minister of Louis for the time, whose rise and character bore as close a resemblance to that
of Wolsey, as the difference betwixt the crafty and politic Louis and the headlong and rash
Henry VIII of England would permit. The former had raised his minister from the lowest rank,
to the dignity, or at least to the emoluments, of Grand Almoner of France, loaded him with
benefices, and obtained for him the hat of a cardinal; and although he was too cautious to
repose in the ambitious Balue the unbounded power and trust which Henry placed in Wolsey, yet
he was more influenced by him than by any other of his avowed counsellors. The Cardinal, accordingly,
had not escaped the error incidental to those who are suddenly raised to power from an obscure
situation, for he entertained a strong persuasion, dazzled doubtlessly by the suddenness of
his elevation, that his capacity was equal to intermeddling with affairs of every kind, even
those most foreign to his profession and studies. Tall and ungainly in his person, he affected
gallantry and admiration of the fair sex, although his manners rendered his pretensions absurd,
and his profession marked them as indecorous. Some male or female flatterer had, in evil hour,
possessed him with the idea that there was much beauty of contour in a pair of huge, substantial
legs, which he had derived from his father, a car man of Limoges--or, according to other authorities,
a miller of Verdun, and with this idea he had become so infatuated that he always had his cardinal's
robes a little looped up on one side, that the sturdy proportion of his limbs might not escape
observation. As he swept through the stately apartment in his crimson dress and rich cope,
he stopped repeatedly to look at the arms and appointments of the cavaliers on guard, asked
them several questions in an authoritative tone, and took upon him to censure some of them
for what he termed irregularities of discipline, in language to which these experienced soldiers
dared no reply, although it was plain they listened to it with impatience and with contempt.

[Wolsey (1471-1530): at one time the chief favourite of Henry VIII. He was raised from obscurity
by that sovereign to be Archbishop of York, Lord Chancellor of England, and Cardinal. As legate
of the Pope, he gained the ill will of Henry by his failure to secure that king's divorce.
He was deprived of his offices, his property was confiscated to the crown, and in 1530 he was
arrested for high treason, but died on his way to trial.]

"Is the King aware," said Dunois to the Cardinal, "that the Burgundian Envoy is peremptory
in demanding an audience?"

"He is," answered the Cardinal; "and here, as I think, comes the all sufficient Oliver Dain,
to let us know the royal pleasure."

As he spoke, a remarkable person, who then divided the favour of Louis with the proud Cardinal
himself, entered from the inner apartment, but without any of that important and consequential
demeanour which marked the full blown dignity of the churchman. On the contrary, this was a
little, pale, meagre man, whose black silk jerkin and hose, without either coat, cloak, or
cassock, formed a dress ill qualified to set off to advantage a very ordinary person. He carried
a silver basin in his hand, and a napkin flung over his arm indicated his menial capacity.
His visage was penetrating and quick, although he endeavoured to banish such expression from
his features by keeping his eyes fixed on the ground, while, with the stealthy and quiet pace
of a cat, he seemed modestly rather to glide than to walk through the apartment. But though
modesty may easily obscure worth, it cannot hide court favour; and all attempts to steal unperceived
through the presence chamber were vain, on the part of one known to have such possession of
the King's ear as had been attained by his celebrated barber and groom of the chamber, Oliver
le Dain, called sometimes Oliver le Mauvais, and sometimes Oliver le Diable, epithets derived
from the unscrupulous cunning with which he assisted in the execution of the schemes of his
master's tortuous policy. At present he spoke earnestly for a few moments with the Count de
Dunois, who instantly left the chamber, while the tonsor glided quietly back towards the royal
apartment whence he had issued, every one giving place to him; which civility he only acknowledged
by the most humble inclination of the body, excepting in a very few instances, where he made
one or two persons the subject of envy to all the other courtiers, by whispering a single word
in their ear; and at the same time muttering something of the duties of his place, he escaped
from their replies as well as from the eager solicitations of those who wished to attract his
notice. Ludovic Lesly had the good fortune to be one of the individuals who, on the present
occasion, was favoured by Oliver with a single word, to assure him that his matter was fortunately
terminated.

Presently afterwards he had another proof of the same agreeable tidings; for Quentin's old
acquaintance, Tristan l'Hermite, the Provost Marshal of the royal household, entered the apartment,
and came straight to the place where Balafre was posted. This formidable officer's uniform,
which was very rich, had only the effect of making his sinister countenance and bad mien more
strikingly remarkable, and the tone, which he meant for conciliatory, was like nothing so much
as the growling of a bear. The import of his words, however, was more amicable than the voice
in which they were pronounced. He regretted the mistake which had fallen between them on the
preceding day, and observed it was owing to the Sieur Le Balafre's nephew's not wearing the
uniform of his corps, or announcing himself as belonging to it, which had led him into the
error for which he now asked forgiveness.

Ludovic Lesly made the necessary reply, and as soon as Tristan had turned away, observed to
his nephew that they had now the distinction of having a mortal enemy from henceforward in
the person of this dreaded officer.

"But we are above his volee [brood, rank, class]--a soldier," said he, "who does his duty,
may laugh at the Provost Marshal."

Quentin could not help being of his uncle's opinion, for, as Tristan parted from them, it was
with the look of angry defiance which the bear casts upon the hunter whose spear has wounded
him. Indeed, even when less strongly moved, the sullen eye of this official expressed a malevolence
of purpose which made men shudder to meet his glance; and the thrill of the young Scot was
the deeper and more abhorrent, that he seemed to himself still to feel on his shoulders the
grasp of the two death doing functionaries of this fatal officer.

Meanwhile, Oliver, after he had prowled around the room in the stealthy manner which we have
endeavoured to describe--all, even the highest officers making way for him, and loading him
with their ceremonious attentions, which his modesty seemed desirous to avoid--again entered
the inner apartment, the doors of which were presently thrown open, and King Louis entered
the presence chamber.

Quentin, like all others, turned his eyes upon him; and started so suddenly that he almost
dropped his weapon, when he recognised in the King of France that silk merchant, Maitre Pierre,
who had been the companion of his morning walk. Singular suspicions respecting the real rank
of this person had at different times crossed his thoughts; but this, the proved reality, was
wilder than his wildest conjecture.

The stern look of his uncle, offended at this breach of the decorum of his office, recalled
him to himself; but not a little was he astonished when the King, whose quick eye had at once
discovered him, walked straight to the place where he was posted, without taking notice of
any one else.

"So;" he said, "young man, I am told you have been brawling on your first arrival in Touraine;
but I pardon you, as it was chiefly the fault of a foolish old merchant, who thought your Caledonian
blood required to be heated in the morning with Vin de Beaulne. If I can find him, I will make
him an example to those who debauch my Guards.--Balafre," he added, speaking to Lesly, "your
kinsman is a fair youth, though a fiery. We love to cherish such spirits, and mean to make
more than ever we did of the brave men who are around us. Let the year, day, hour, and minute
of your nephew's birth be written down and given to Oliver Dain."

Le Balafre bowed to the ground, and re-assumed his erect military position, as one who would
show by his demeanour his promptitude to act in the King's quarrel or defence. Quentin, in
the meantime, recovered from his first surprise, studied the King's appearance more attentively,
and was surprised to find how differently he now construed his deportment and features than
he had done at their first interview.

These were not much changed in exterior, for Louis, always a scorner of outward show, wore,
on the present occasion, an old dark blue hunting dress, not much better than the plain burgher
suit of the preceding day, and garnished with a huge rosary of ebony which had been sent to
him by no less a personage than the Grand Seignior, with an attestation that it had been used
by a Coptic hermit on Mount Lebanon, a personage of profound sanctity. And instead of his cap
with a single image, he now wore a hat, the band of which was garnished with at least a dozen
of little paltry figures of saints stamped in lead. But those eyes, which, according to Quentin's
former impression, only twinkled with the love of gain, had, now that they were known to be
the property of an able and powerful monarch, a piercing and majestic glance; and those wrinkles
on the brow, which he had supposed were formed during a long series of petty schemes of commerce,
seemed now the furrows which sagacity had worn while toiling in meditation upon the fate of
nations.

Presently after the King's appearance, the Princesses of France, with the ladies of their suite,
entered the apartment. With the eldest, afterwards married to Peter of Bourbon, and known in
French history by the name of the Lady of Beaujeu, our story has but little to do. She was
tall, and rather handsome, possessed eloquence, talent, and much of her father's sagacity,
who reposed great confidence in her, and loved her as well perhaps as he loved any one.

The younger sister, the unfortunate Joan, the destined bride of the Duke of Orleans, advanced
timidly by the side of her sister, conscious of a total want of those external qualities which
women are most desirous of possessing, or being thought to possess. She was pale, thin, and
sickly in her complexion; her shape visibly bent to one side, and her gait was so unequal that
she might be called lame. A fine set of teeth, and eyes which were expressive of melancholy,
softness, and resignation, with a quantity of light brown locks, were the only redeeming points
which flattery itself could have dared to number, to counteract the general homeliness of her
face and figure. To complete the picture, it was easy to remark, from the Princess's negligence
in dress and the timidity of her manner, that she had an unusual and distressing consciousness
of her own plainness of appearance, and did not dare to make any of those attempts to mend
by manners or by art what nature had left amiss, or in any other way to exert a power of pleasing.
The King (who loved her not) stepped hastily to her as she entered.

"How now," he said, "our world contemning daughter--Are you robed for a hunting party, or for
the convent, this morning? Speak--answer."

"For which your highness pleases, sire," said the Princess, scarce raising her voice above
her breath.

"Ay, doubtless, you would persuade me it is your desire to quit the Court, Joan, and renounce
the world and its vanities.--Ha! maiden, wouldst thou have it thought that we, the first born
of Holy Church, would refuse our daughter to Heaven?--Our Lady and Saint Martin forbid we should
refuse the offering, were it worthy of the altar, or were thy vocation in truth thitherward!"

So saying, the King crossed himself devoutly, looking in the meantime, as appeared to Quentin,
very like a cunning vassal, who was depreciating the merit of something which he was desirous
to keep to himself, in order that he might stand excused for not offering it to his chief or
superior.

"Dares he thus play the hypocrite with Heaven," thought Durward, "and sport with God and the
Saints, as he may safely do with men, who dare not search his nature too closely?"

Louis meantime resumed, after a moment's mental devotion, "No, fair daughter, I and another
know your real mind better. Ha! fair cousin of Orleans, do we not? Approach, fair sir, and
lead this devoted vestal of ours to her horse."

Orleans started when the King spoke and hastened to obey him; but with such precipitation of
step, and confusion, that Louis called out, "Nay, cousin, rein your gallantry, and look before
you. Why, what a headlong matter a gallant's haste is on some occasions! You had well nigh
taken Anne's hand instead of her sister's.--Sir, must I give Joan's to you myself?"

The unhappy Prince looked up, and shuddered like a child, when forced to touch something at
which it has instinctive horror--then making an effort, took the hand which the Princess neither
gave nor yet withheld. As they stood, her cold, damp fingers enclosed in his trembling hand,
with their eyes looking on the ground, it would have been difficult to say which of these two
youthful beings was rendered more utterly miserable--the Duke, who felt himself fettered to
the object of his aversion by bonds which he durst not tear asunder, or the unfortunate young
woman, who too plainly saw that she was an object of abhorrence to him, to gain whose kindness
she would willingly have died.

"And now to horse, gentlemen and ladies--we will ourselves lead forth our daughter of Beaujeu,"
said the King; "and God's blessing and Saint Hubert's be on our morning's sport!"

"I am, I fear, doomed to interrupt it, Sire," said the Comte de Dunois; "the Burgundian Envoy
is before the gates of the Castle and demands an audience."

"Demands an audience, Dunois?" replied the King. "Did you not answer him, as we sent you word
by Oliver, that we were not at leisure to see him today,--and that tomorrow was the festival
of Saint Martin, which, please Heaven, we would disturb by no earthly thoughts--and that on
the succeeding day we were designed for Amboise--but that we would not fail to appoint him
as early an audience, when we returned, as our pressing affairs would permit."

"All this I said," answered Dunois, "but yet, Sire--"

"Pasques dieu! man, what is it that thus sticks in thy throat?" said the King. "This Burgundian's
terms must have been hard of digestion."

"Had not my duty, your Grace's commands, and his character as an envoy, restrained me," said
Dunois, "he should have tried to digest them himself; for, by our Lady of Orleans, I had more
mind to have made him eat his own words, than to have brought them to your Majesty."

"Body of me," said the King, "it is strange that thou, one of the most impatient fellows alive,
should have so little sympathy with the like infirmity in our blunt and fiery cousin, Charles
of Burgundy. Why, man, I mind his blustering messages no more than the towers of this Castle
regard the whistling of the northeast wind, which comes from Flanders, as well as this brawling
Envoy."

"Know then, Sire," replied Dunois, "that the Count of Crevecoeur tarries below, with his retinue
of pursuivants and trumpets, and says, that since your Majesty refuses him the audience which
his master has instructed him to demand, upon matters of most pressing concern, he will remain
there till midnight, and accost your Majesty at whatever hour you are pleased to issue from
your Castle, whether for business, exercise, or devotion; and that no consideration, except
the use of absolute force, shall compel him to desist from this."

"He is a fool," said the King, with much composure. "Does the hot headed Hainaulter think it
any penance for a man of sense to remain for twenty-four hours quiet within the walls of his
Castle, when he hath the affairs of a kingdom to occupy him? These impatient coxcombs think
that all men, like themselves, are miserable, save when in saddle and stirrup. Let the dogs
be put up, and well looked to, gentle Dunois.--We will hold council today, instead of hunting."

"My Liege," answered Dunois, "you will not thus rid yourself of Crevecoeur; for his master's
instructions are, that if he hath not this audience which he demands, he shall nail his gauntlet
to the palisade before the Castle in token of mortal defiance on the part of his master, shall
renounce the Duke's fealty to France, and declare instant war."

"Ay," said Louis without any perceptible alteration of voice, but frowning until his piercing
dark eyes became almost invisible under his shaggy eyebrows, "is it even so? will our ancient
vassal prove so masterful--our dear cousin treat us thus unkindly?--Nay, then, Dunois, we must
unfold the Oriflamme, and cry Dennis Montjoye!"

[Montjoie St. Denis, a former war cry of the French soldiers. Saint Denis was a patron saint
of France who suffered martyrdom in the third century. Montjoie (mont and joie) may be the
name of the hill where the saint met his death; or it may signify that any such place is a
"hill of joy."]

"Marry and amen, and in a most happy hour!" said the martial Dunois; and the guards in the
hall, unable to resist the same impulse, stirred each upon his post, so as to produce a low
but distinct sound of clashing arms. The King cast his eye proudly round, and, for a moment,
thought and looked like his heroic father.

But the excitement of the moment presently gave way to the host of political considerations,
which, at that conjuncture, rendered an open breach with Burgundy so peculiarly perilous. Edward
IV, a brave and victorious king, who had in his own person fought thirty battles, was now established
on the throne of England, was brother to the Duchess of Burgundy, and, it might well be supposed,
waited but a rupture between his near connexion and Louis, to carry into France, through the
ever open gate of Calais, those arms which had been triumphant in the English civil wars, and
to obliterate the recollection of internal dissensions by that most popular of all occupations
amongst the English, an invasion of France. To this consideration was added the uncertain faith
of the Duke of Bretagne, and other weighty subjects of reflection. So that, after a deep pause,
when Louis again spoke, although in the same tone, it was with an altered spirit. "But God
forbid," he said, "that aught less than necessity should make us, the Most Christian' King,
give cause to the effusion of Christian blood, if anything short of dishonour may avert such
a calamity. We tender our subjects' safety dearer than the ruffle which our own dignity may
receive from the rude breath of a malapert ambassador, who hath perhaps exceeded the errand
with which he was charged.--Admit the Envoy of Burgundy to our presence."

"Beati pacifici, [blessed are the peace makers]" said the Cardinal Balue.

"True; and your Eminence knoweth that they who humble themselves shall be exalted," added the King.

The Cardinal spoke an Amen, to which few assented, for even the pale cheek of Orleans kindled
with shame, and Balafre suppressed his feelings so little, as to let the butt end of his partisan
fall heavily on the floor--a movement of impatience for which he underwent a bitter reproof
from the Cardinal, with a lecture on the mode of handling his arms when in presence of the
Sovereign. The King himself seemed unusually embarrassed at the silence around him.

"You are pensive, Dunois," he said. "You disapprove of our giving way to this hot headed Envoy."

"By no means,"' said Dunois; "I meddle not with matters beyond my sphere. I was thinking of
asking a boon of your Majesty."

"A boon, Dunois--what is it? You are an unfrequent suitor, and may count on our favour."

"I would, then, your Majesty would send me to Evreux to regulate the clergy," said Dunois,
with military frankness.

"That were indeed beyond thy sphere," replied the King, smiling.

"I might order priests as well," replied the Count, "as my Lord Bishop of Evreux, or my Lord
Cardinal, if he likes the title better, can exercise the soldiers of your Majesty's guard."

The King smiled again, and more mysteriously, while he whispered Dunois, "The time may come
when you and I will regulate the priests together.--But this is for the present a good conceited
animal of a Bishop. Ah, Dunois! Rome, Rome puts him and other burdens upon us.--But patience,
cousin, and shuffle the cards, till our hand is a stronger one."

[Dr. Dryasdust here remarks that cards, said to have been invented in a preceding reign, for
the amusement of Charles V during the intervals of his mental disorder, seem speedily to have
become common among the courtiers.... The alleged origin of the invention of cards produced
one of the shrewdest replies I have ever heard given in evidence. It was made by the late Dr.
Gregory of Edinburgh to a counsel of great eminence at the Scottish bar. The Doctor's testimony
went to prove the insanity of the party whose mental capacity was the point at issue. On a
cross interrogation, he admitted that the person in question played admirably at whist. "And
do you seriously say, doctor," said the learned counsel, "that a person having a superior capacity
for a game so difficult, and which requires in a preeminent degree, memory, judgment, and combination,
can be at the same time deranged in his understanding?"--"I am no card player," said the doctor,
with great address, "but I have read in history that cards were invented for the amusement
of an insane king." The consequences of this reply were decisive. S.]

The flourish of trumpets in the courtyard now announced the arrival of the Burgundian nobleman.
All in the presence chamber made haste to arrange themselves according to their proper places
of precedence, the King and his daughters remaining in the centre of the assembly.

The Count of Crevecoeur, a renowned and undaunted warrior, entered the apartment; and, contrary
to the usage among the envoys of friendly powers, he appeared all armed, excepting his head,
in a gorgeous suit of the most superb Milan armour, made of steel, inlaid and embossed with
gold, which was wrought into the fantastic taste called the Arabesque. Around his neck and
over his polished cuirass, hung his master's order of the Golden Fleece, one of the most honoured
associations of chivalry then known in Christendom. A handsome page bore his helmet behind
him, a herald preceded him, bearing his letters of credence which he offered on his knee to
the King; while the ambassador himself paused in the midst of the hall, as if to give all present
time to admire his lofty look, commanding stature, and undaunted composure of countenance and
manner. The rest of his attendants waited in the antechamber, or courtyard.

[The military order of the Golden Fleece was instituted by Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy,
in the year 1429, the King of Spain being grand master of the order, as Duke of Burgundy.]

"Approach, Seignior Count de Crevecoeur," said Louis, after a moment's glance at his commission;
"we need not our cousin's letters of credence, either to introduce to us a warrior so well
known, or to assure us of your highly deserved credit with your master. We trust that your
fair partner, who shares some of our ancestral blood, is in good health. Had you brought her
in your hand, Seignior Count, we might have thought you wore your armour, on this unwonted
occasion, to maintain the superiority of her charms against the amorous chivalry of France.
As it is, we cannot guess the reason of this complete panoply."

"Sire," replied the ambassador, "the Count of Crevecoeur must lament his misfortune, and entreat
your forgiveness, that he cannot, on this occasion, reply with such humble deference as is
due to the royal courtesy with which your Majesty has honoured him. But, although it is only
the voice of Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes which speaks, the words which he utters must be those
of his gracious Lord and Sovereign, the Duke of Burgundy."

"And what has Crevecoeur to say in the words of Burgundy?" said Louis, with an assumption of
sufficient dignity. "Yet hold--remember, that in this presence, Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes
speaks to him who is his Sovereign's Sovereign."

Crevecoeur bowed, and then spoke aloud: "King of France, the mighty Duke of Burgundy once more
sends you a written schedule of the wrongs and oppressions committed on his frontiers by your
Majesty's garrisons and officers; and the first point of inquiry is, whether it is your Majesty's
purpose to make him amends for these injuries?"

The King, looking slightly at the memorial which the herald delivered to him upon his knee,
said, "These matters have been already long before our Council. Of the injuries complained
of, some are in requital of those sustained by my subjects, some are affirmed without any proof,
some have been retaliated by the Duke's garrisons and soldiers; and if there remain any which
fall under none of those predicaments, we are not, as a Christian prince, averse to make satisfaction
for wrongs actually sustained by our neighbour, though committed not only without our countenance,
but against our express order."'

"I will convey your Majesty's answer," said the ambassador, "to my most gracious master; yet,
let me say, that, as it is in no degree different from the evasive replies which have already
been returned to his just complaints, I cannot hope that it will afford the means of re-establishing
peace and friendship betwixt France and Burgundy."

"Be that at God's pleasure," said the King. "It is not for dread of thy master's arms, but
for the sake of peace only, that I return so temperate an answer to his injurious reproaches.
Proceed with thine errand."

"My master's next demand," said the ambassador, "is that your Majesty will cease your secret
and underhand dealings with his towns of Ghent, Liege, and Malines. He requests that your Majesty
will recall the secret agents by whose means the discontents of his good citizens of Flanders
are inflamed; and dismiss from your Majesty's dominions, or rather deliver up to the condign
punishment of their liege lord, those traitorous fugitives, who, having fled from the scene
of their machinations, have found too ready a refuge in Paris, Orleans, Tours, and other French
cities."

"Say to the Duke of Burgundy," replied the King, "that I know of no such indirect practices
as those with which he injuriously charges me; that many subjects of France have frequent intercourse
with the good cities of Flanders, for the purpose of mutual benefit by free traffic, which
it would be as much contrary to the Duke's interest as mine to interrupt; and that many Flemings
have residence in my kingdom, and enjoy the protection of my laws, for the same purpose; but
none, to our knowledge, for those of treason or mutiny against the Duke. Proceed with your
message--you have heard my answer."

"As formerly, Sire, with pain," replied the Count of Crevecoeur; "it not being of that direct
or explicit nature which the Duke, my master, will accept, in atonement for a long train of
secret machinations, not the less certain, though now disavowed by your Majesty. But I proceed
with my message. The Duke of Burgundy farther requires the King of France to send back to his
dominions without delay, and under a secure safeguard, the persons of Isabelle Countess of
Croye, and of her relation and guardian the Countess Hameline, of the same family, in respect
the said Countess Isabelle, being, by the law of the country and the feudal tenure of her estates,
the ward of the said Duke of Burgundy, hath fled from his dominions, and from the charge which
he, as a careful guardian, was willing to extend over her, and is here maintained in secret
by the King of France and by him fortified in her contumacy to the Duke, her natural lord and
guardian, contrary to the laws of God and man, as they ever have been acknowledged in civilized
Europe.--Once more I pause for your Majesty's reply."

"You did well, Count de Crevecoeur," said Louis, scornfully, "to begin your embassy at an early
hour; for if it be your purpose to call on me to account for the flight of every vassal whom
your master's heady passion may have driven from his dominions, the head roll may last till
sunset. Who can affirm that these ladies are in my dominions? who can presume to say, if it
be so, that I have either countenanced their flight hither, or have received them with offers
of protection? Nay, who is it will assert, that, if they are in France, their place of retirement
is within my knowledge?"

"Sire," said Crevecoeur, "may it please your Majesty, I was provided with a witness on this
subject--one who beheld these fugitive ladies in the inn called the Fleur de Lys, not far from
this Castle--one who saw your Majesty in their company, though under the unworthy disguise
of a burgess of Tours--one who received from them, in your royal presence, messages and letters
to their friends in Flanders--all which he conveyed to the hand and ear of the Duke of Burgundy."

"Bring them forward," said the King; "place the man before my face who dares maintain these
palpable falsehoods."

"You speak in triumph, my lord, for you are well aware that this witness no longer exists.
When he lived, he was called Zamet Magraubin, by birth one of those Bohemian wanderers. He
was yesterday--as I have learned--executed by a party of your Majesty's Provost Marshal, to
prevent, doubtless, his standing here to verify what he said of this matter to the Duke of
Burgundy, in presence of his Council, and of me, Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes."

"Now, by Our Lady of Embrun," said the King, "so gross are these accusations, and so free of
consciousness am I of aught that approaches them, that, by the honour of a King, I laugh, rather
than am wroth at them. My Provost guard daily put to death, as is their duty, thieves and vagabonds;
and is my crown to be slandered with whatever these thieves and vagabonds may have said to
our hot cousin of Burgundy and his wise counsellors? I pray you, tell my kind cousin, if he
loves such companions, he had best keep them in his own estates; for here they are like to
meet short shrift and a tight cord."

"My master needs no such subjects, Sir King," answered the Count, in a tone more disrespectful
than he had yet permitted himself to make use of; "for the noble Duke uses not to inquire of
witches, wandering Egyptians, or others, upon the destiny and fate of his neighbours and allies."

"We have had patience enough, and to spare," said the King, interrupting him; "and since thy
sole errand here seems to be for the purpose of insult, we will send some one in our name to
the Duke of Burgundy--convinced, in thus demeaning thyself towards us, thou hast exceeded thy
commission, whatever that may have been."

"On the contrary," said Crevecoeur, "I have not yet acquitted myself of it--Hearken, Louis
of Valois, King of France--Hearken, nobles and gentlemen, who may be present.--Hearken, all
good and true men.--And thou, Toison d'Or," addressing the herald, "make proclamation after
me.--I, Philip Crevecoeur of Cordes, Count of the Empire, and Knight of the honourable and
princely Order of the Golden Fleece, in the name of the most puissant Lord and Prince, Charles,
by the grace of God, Duke of Burgundy and Lotharingia, of Brabant and Limbourg, of Luxembourg
and of Gueldres; Earl of Flanders and of Artois; Count Palatine of Hainault, of Holland, Zealand,
Namur, and Zutphen; Marquis of the Holy Empire; Lord of Friezeland, Salines, and Malines, do
give you, Louis, King of France, openly to know, that you, having refused to remedy the various
griefs, wrongs, and offences, done and wrought by you, or by and through your aid, suggestion,
and instigation, against the said Duke and his loving subjects, he, by my mouth, renounces
all allegiance and fealty towards your crown and dignity--pronounces you false and faithless;
and defies you as a Prince, and as a man. There lies my gage, in evidence of what I have said."

So saying, he plucked the gauntlet off his right hand, and flung it down on the floor of the hall.

Until this last climax of audacity, there had been a deep silence in the royal apartment during
the extraordinary scene; but no sooner had the clash of the gauntlet, when cast down, been
echoed by the deep voice of Toison d'Or, the Burgundian herald, with the ejaculation, "Vive
Bourgogne!" than there was a general tumult. While Dunois, Orleans, old Lord Crawford, and
one or two others, whose rank authorized their interference, contended which should lift up
the gauntlet, the others in the hall exclaimed, "Strike him down! Cut him to pieces! Comes
he here to insult the King of France in his own palace?"

But the King appeased the tumult by exclaiming, in a voice like thunder, which overawed and
silenced every other sound, "Silence, my lieges, lay not a hand on the man, not a finger on
the gage!--And you, Sir Count, of what is your life composed, or how is it warranted, that
you thus place it on the cast of a die so perilous? or is your Duke made of a different metal
from other princes, since he thus asserts his pretended quarrel in a manner so unusual?"

"He is indeed framed of a different and more noble metal than the other princes of Europe,"
said the undaunted Count of Crevecoeur; "for, when not one of them dared to give shelter to
you--to you, I say, King Louis--when you were yet only Dauphin, an exile from France, and pursued
by the whole bitterness of your father's revenge, and all the power of his kingdom, you were
received and protected like a brother by my noble master, whose generosity of disposition you
have so grossly misused. Farewell, Sire, my mission is discharged."

So saying, the Count de Crevecoeur left the apartment abruptly, and without farther leave taking.

"After him--after him--take up the gauntlet and after him!" said the King. "I mean not you,
Dunois, nor you, my Lord of Crawford, who, methinks, may be too old for such hot frays; nor
you, cousin of Orleans, who are too young for them.--My Lord Cardinal--my Lord Bishop of Auxerre--it
is your holy office to make peace among princes; do you lift the gauntlet, and remonstrate
with Count Crevecoeur on the sin he has committed, in thus insulting a great monarch in his
own Court, and forcing us to bring the miseries of war upon his kingdom, and that of his neighbour."

Upon this direct personal appeal, the Cardinal Balue proceeded to lift the gauntlet, with such
precaution as one would touch an adder--so great was apparently his aversion to this symbol
of war--and presently left the royal apartment to hasten after the challenger.

Louis paused and looked round the circle of his courtiers, most of whom, except such as we
have already distinguished, being men of low birth, and raised to their rank in the King's
household for other gifts than courage or feats of arms, looked pale on each other, and had
obviously received an unpleasant impression from the scene which had been just acted. Louis
gazed on them with contempt, and then said aloud, "Although the Count of Crevecoeur be presumptuous
and overweening, it must be confessed that in him the Duke of Burgundy hath as bold a servant
as ever bore message for a prince. I would I knew where to find as faithful an Envoy to carry
back my answer."

"You do your French nobles injustice, Sire," said Dunois; "not one of them but would carry
a defiance to Burgundy on the point of his sword."

"And, Sire," said old Crawford, "you wrong also the Scottish gentlemen who serve you. I, or
any of my followers, being of meet rank, would not hesitate a moment to call yonder proud Count
to a reckoning; my own arm is yet strong enough for the purpose, if I have but your Majesty's
permission."

"But your Majesty," continued Dunois, "will employ us in no service through which we may win
honour to ourselves, to your Majesty, or to France."

"Say rather," said the King, "that I will not give way, Dunois, to the headlong impetuosity,
which, on some punctilio of chivalry, would wreck yourselves, the throne, France, and all.
There is not one of you who knows not how precious every hour of peace is at this moment, when
so necessary to heal the wounds of a distracted country; yet there is not one of you who would
not rush into war on account of the tale of a wandering gipsy, or of some errant damosel, whose
reputation, perhaps, is scarce higher.--Here comes the Cardinal, and we trust with more pacific
tidings.--How now, my Lord,--have you brought the Count to reason and to temper?"

"Sire," said Balue, "my task hath been difficult. I put it to yonder proud Count, how he dared
to use towards your Majesty the presumptuous reproach with which his audience had broken up,
and which must be understood as proceeding, not from his master, but from his own insolence,
and as placing him therefore in your Majesty's discretion for what penalty you might think proper."

"You said right," replied the King; "and what was his answer?"

"The Count," continued the Cardinal, "had at that moment his foot in the stirrup, ready to
mount; and, on hearing my expostulation, he turned his head without altering his position.
'Had I,' said he, 'been fifty leagues distant, and had heard by report that a question vituperative
of my Prince had been asked by the King of France, I had, even at that distance, instantly
mounted, and returned to disburden my mind of the answer which I gave him but now.'"

"I said, sirs," said the King, turning around, without any show of angry emotion, "that in
the Count Philip of Crevecoeur, our cousin the Duke possesses as worthy a servant as ever rode
at a prince's right hand.--But you prevailed with him to stay?"

"To stay for twenty-four hours; and in the meanwhile to receive again his gage of defiance,"
said the Cardinal; "he has dismounted at the Fleur de Lys."

"See that he be nobly attended and cared for, at our charges," said the King; "such a servant
is a jewel in a prince's crown. Twenty-four hours?" he added, muttering to himself, and looking
as if he were stretching his eyes to see into futurity; "twenty-four hours? It is of the shortest.
Yet twenty-four hours, ably and skilfully employed, may be worth a year in the hand of indolent
or incapable agents.--Well--to the forest--to the forest, my gallant lords!--Orleans, my fair
kinsman, lay aside that modesty, though it becomes you; mind not my Joan's coyness. The Loire
may as soon avoid mingling with the Cher, as she from favouring your suit, or you from preferring
it," he added, as the unhappy prince moved slowly on after his betrothed bride. "And now for
your boar spears, gentlemen--for Allegre, my pricker, hath harboured one that will try both
dog and man.--Dunois, lend me your spear--take mine, it is too weighty for me; but when did
you complain of such a fault in your lance?--To horse--to horse, gentlemen."

And all the chase rode on.

CHAPTER IX: THE BOAR HUNT

     I will converse with unrespective boys
     And iron witted fools.  None are for me
     that look into me with suspicious eyes.

     KING RICHARD

All the experience which the Cardinal had been able to collect of his master's disposition,
did not, upon the present occasion, prevent his falling into a great error of policy. His vanity
induced him to think that he had been more successful in prevailing upon the Count of Crevecoeur
to remain at Tours, than any other moderator whom the King might have employed, would, in all
probability, have been. And as he was well aware of the importance which Louis attached to
the postponement of a war with the Duke of Burgundy, he could not help showing that he conceived
himself to have rendered the King great and acceptable service. He pressed nearer to the King's
person than he was wont to do, and endeavoured to engage him in conversation on the events
of the morning.

This was injudicious in more respects than one, for princes love not to see their subjects
approach them with an air conscious of deserving, and thereby seeming desirous to extort, acknowledgment
and recompense for their services; and Louis, the most jealous monarch that ever lived, was
peculiarly averse and inaccessible to any one who seemed either to presume upon service rendered
or to pry into his secrets.

Yet, hurried away, as the most cautious sometimes are, by the self satisfied humour of the
moment, the Cardinal continued to ride on the King's right hand, turning the discourse, whenever
it was possible, upon Crevecoeur and his embassy which, although it might be the matter at
that moment most in the King's thoughts, was nevertheless precisely that which he was least
willing to converse on. At length Louis, who had listened to him with attention, yet without
having returned any answer which could tend to prolong the conversation, signed to Dunois,
who rode at no great distance, to come up on the other side of his horse.

"We came hither for sport and exercise," said he, "but the reverend Father here would have
us hold a council of state."

"I hope your Highness will excuse my assistance," said Dunois; "I am born to fight the battles
of France, and have heart and hand for that, but I have no head for her councils."

"My Lord Cardinal hath a head turned for nothing else, Dunois," answered Louis; "he hath confessed
Crevecoeur at the Castle gate, and he hath communicated to us his whole shrift.--Said you not
the whole?" he continued, with an emphasis on the word, and a glance at the Cardinal, which
shot from betwixt his long dark eyelashes as a dagger gleams when it leaves the scabbard.

The Cardinal trembled, as, endeavouring to reply to the King's jest, he said that though his
order were obliged to conceal the secrets of their penitents in general, there was no sigillum
confessionis [seal of confession] which could not be melted at his Majesty's breath.

"And as his Eminence," said the King, "is ready to communicate the secrets of others to us,
he naturally expects that we should be equally communicative to him; and, in order to get upon
this reciprocal footing, he is very reasonably desirous to know if these two ladies of Croye
be actually in our territories. We are sorry we cannot indulge his curiosity, not ourselves
knowing in what precise place errant damsels, disguised princesses, distressed countesses,
may lie leaguer within our dominions, which are, we thank God and our Lady of Embrun, rather
too extensive for us to answer easily his Eminence's most reasonable inquiries. But supposing
they were with us, what say you, Dunois, to our cousin's peremptory demand?"

"I will answer you, my Liege, if you will tell me in sincerity, whether you want war or peace,"
replied Dunois, with a frankness which, while it arose out of his own native openness and intrepidity
of character, made him from time to time a considerable favourite with Louis, who, like all
astucious persons, was as desirous of looking into the hearts of others as of concealing his own.

"By my halidome," said he, "I should be as well contented as thyself, Dunois, to tell thee
my purpose, did I myself but know it exactly. But say I declared for war, what should I do
with this beautiful and wealthy young heiress, supposing her to be in my dominions?"

"Bestow her in marriage on one of your own gallant followers, who has a heart to love, and
an arm to protect her," said Dunois.

"Upon thyself, ha!" said the King. "Pasques dieu! thou art more politic than I took thee for,
with all thy bluntness."

"Nay," answered Dunois, "I am aught except politic. By our Lady of Orleans, I come to the point
at once, as I ride my horse at the ring. Your Majesty owes the house of Orleans at least one
happy marriage."

"And I will pay it, Count. Pasques dieu, I will pay it!--See you not yonder fair couple?"

The King pointed to the unhappy Duke of Orleans and the Princess, who, neither daring to remain
at a greater distance from the King, nor in his sight appear separate from each other, were
riding side by side, yet with an interval of two or three yards betwixt them, a space which
timidity on the one side, and aversion on the other, prevented them from diminishing, while
neither dared to increase it.

Dunois looked in the direction of the King's signal, and as the situation of his unfortunate
relative and the destined bride reminded him of nothing so much as of two dogs, which, forcibly
linked together, remain nevertheless as widely separated as the length of their collars will
permit, he could not help shaking his head, though he ventured not on any other reply to the
hypocritical tyrant. Louis seemed to guess his thoughts.

"It will be a peaceful and quiet household they will keep--not much disturbed with children,
I should augur. But these are not always a blessing."

[Here the King touches on the very purpose for which he pressed on the match with such tyrannic
severity, which was that as the Princess's personal deformity admitted little chance of its
being fruitful, the branch of Orleans, which was next in succession to the crown, might be,
by the want of heirs, weakened or extinguished]

It was, perhaps, the recollection of his own filial ingratitude that made the King pause as
he uttered the last reflection, and which converted the sneer that trembled on his lip into
something resembling an expression of contrition. But he instantly proceeded in another tone.

"Frankly, my Dunois, much as I revere the holy sacrament of matrimony" (here he crossed himself),
"I would rather the house of Orleans raised for me such gallant soldiers as thy father and
thyself, who share the blood royal of France without claiming its rights, than that the country
should be torn to pieces, like to England, by wars arising from the rivalry of legitimate candidates
for the crown. The lion should never have more than one cub."

Dunois sighed and was silent, conscious that contradicting his arbitrary Sovereign might well
hurt his kinsman's interests but could do him no service; yet he could not forbear adding,
in the next moment,

"Since your Majesty has alluded to the birth of my father, I must needs own that, setting the
frailty of his parents on one side, he might be termed happier, and more fortunate, as the
son of lawless love than of conjugal hatred."

"Thou art a scandalous fellow, Dunois, to speak thus of holy wedlock," answered Louis jestingly.
"But to the devil with the discourse, for the boar is unharboured.--Lay on the dogs, in the
name of the holy Saint Hubert!--Ha! ha! tra-la-la-lira-la"--And the King's horn rang merrily
through the woods as he pushed forward on the chase, followed by two or three of his guards,
amongst whom was our friend Quentin Durward. And here it was remarkable that, even in the keen
prosecution of his favourite sport, the King in indulgence of his caustic disposition, found
leisure to amuse himself by tormenting Cardinal Balue.

It was one of that able statesman's weaknesses, as we have elsewhere hinted, to suppose himself,
though of low rank and limited education, qualified to play the courtier and the man of gallantry.
He did not, indeed, actually enter the lists of chivalrous combat, like Becket, or levy soldiers,
like Wolsey. But gallantry, in which they also were proficients, was his professed pursuit;
and he likewise affected great fondness for the martial amusement of the chase. Yet, however
well he might succeed with certain ladies, to whom his power, his wealth, and his influence
as a statesman might atone for deficiencies in appearance and manners, the gallant horses,
which he purchased at almost any price, were totally insensible to the dignity of carrying
a Cardinal, and paid no more respect to him than they would have done to his father, the carter,
miller, or tailor, whom he rivalled in horsemanship. The King knew this, and, by alternately
exciting and checking his own horse, he brought that of the Cardinal, whom he kept close by
his side, into such a state of mutiny against his rider, that it became apparent they must
soon part company; and then, in the midst of its starting, bolting, rearing, and lashing out,
alternately, the royal tormentor rendered the rider miserable, by questioning him upon many
affairs of importance, and hinting his purpose to take that opportunity of communicating to
him some of those secrets of state which the Cardinal had but a little while before seemed
so anxious to learn.

[In imputing to the Cardinal a want of skill in horsemanship, I recollected his adventure in
Paris when attacked by assassins, on which occasion his mule, being scared by the crowd, ran
away with the rider, and taking its course to a monastery, to the abbot of which he formerly
belonged; was the means of saving his master's life.... S.]

A more awkward situation could hardly be imagined than that of a privy councillor forced to
listen to and reply to his sovereign, while each fresh gambade of his unmanageable horse placed
him in a new and more precarious attitude--his violet robe flying loose in every direction,
and nothing securing him from an instant and perilous fall save the depth of the saddle, and
its height before and behind. Dunois laughed without restraint; while the King, who had a private
mode of enjoying his jest inwardly, without laughing aloud, mildly rebuked his minister on
his eager passion for the chase, which would not permit him to dedicate a few moments to business.

"I will no longer be your hindrance to a course," continued he, addressing the terrified Cardinal,
and giving his own horse the rein at the same time.

Before Balue could utter a word by way of answer or apology, his horse, seizing the bit with
his teeth, went forth at an uncontrollable gallop, soon leaving behind the King and Dunois,
who followed at a more regulated pace, enjoying the statesman's distressed predicament. If
any of our readers has chanced to be run away with in his time (as we ourselves have in ours),
he will have a full sense at once of the pain, peril, and absurdity of the situation. Those
four limbs of the quadruped, which, noway under the rider's control, nor sometimes under that
of the creature they more properly belong to, fly at such a rate as if the hindermost meant
to overtake the foremost; those clinging legs of the biped which we so often wish safely planted
on the greensward, but which now only augment our distress by pressing the animal's sides--the
hands which have forsaken the bridle for the mane--the body, which, instead of sitting upright
on the centre of gravity, as old Angelo [a celebrated riding and fencing master at the beginning
of the nineteenth century] used to recommend, or stooping forward like a jockey's at Newmarket
[the scene of the annual horse races has been at Newmarket Heath since the time of James I],
lies, rather than hangs, crouched upon the back of the animal, with no better chance of saving
itself than a sack of corn--combine to make a picture more than sufficiently ludicrous to spectators,
however uncomfortable to the exhibiter. But add to this some singularity of dress or appearance
on the part of the unhappy cavalier--a robe of office, a splendid uniform, or any other peculiarity
of costume--and let the scene of action be a race course, a review, a procession, or any other
place of concourse and public display, and if the poor wight would escape being the object
of a shout of inextinguishable laughter, he must contrive to break a limb or two, or, which
will be more effectual, to be killed on the spot; for on no slighter condition will his fall
excite anything like serious sympathy. On the present occasion, the short violet coloured gown
of the Cardinal, which he used as riding dress (having changed his long robes before he left
the Castle), his scarlet stockings, and scarlet hat, with the long strings hanging down, together
with his utter helplessness, gave infinite zest to his exhibition of horsemanship.

The horse, having taken matters entirely into his own hand, flew rather than galloped up a
long green avenue; overtook the pack in hard pursuit of the boar, and then, having overturned
one or two yeomen prickers, who little expected to be charged in the rear--having ridden down
several dogs, and greatly confused the chase--animated by the clamorous expostulations and
threats of the huntsman, carried the terrified Cardinal past the formidable animal itself,
which was rushing on at a speedy trot, furious and embossed with the foam which he churned
around his tusks. Balue, on beholding himself so near the boar, set up a dreadful cry for help,
which, or perhaps the sight of the boar, produced such an effect on his horse, that the animal
interrupted its headlong career by suddenly springing to one side; so that the Cardinal, who
had long kept his seat only because the motion was straight forward, now fell heavily to the
ground. The conclusion of Balue's chase took place so near the boar that, had not the animal
been at that moment too much engaged about his own affairs, the vicinity might have proved
as fatal to the Cardinal, as it is said to have done to Favila, King of the Visigoths of Spain
[he was killed by a bear while hunting]. The powerful churchman got off, however, for the fright,
and, crawling as hastily as he could out of the way of hounds and huntsmen, saw the whole chase
sweep by him without affording him assistance, for hunters in those days were as little moved
by sympathy for such misfortunes as they are in our own. The King, as he passed, said to Dunois,
"Yonder lies his Eminence low enough--he is no great huntsman, though for a fisher (when a
secret is to be caught) he may match Saint Peter himself. He has, however, for once, I think,
met with his match."

The Cardinal did not hear the words, but the scornful look with which they were spoken led
him to suspect their general import. The devil is said to seize such opportunities of temptation
as were now afforded by the passions of Balue, bitterly moved as they had been by the scorn
of the King. The momentary fright was over so soon as he had assured himself that his fall
was harmless; but mortified vanity, and resentment against his Sovereign, had a much longer
influence on his feelings. After all the chase had passed him, a single cavalier, who seemed
rather to be a spectator than a partaker of the sport, rode up with one or two attendants,
and expressed no small surprise to find the Cardinal upon the ground, without a horse or attendants,
and in such a plight as plainly showed the nature of the accident which had placed him there.
To dismount, and offer his assistance in this predicament--to cause one of his attendants to
resign a staid and quiet palfrey for the Cardinal's use--to express his surprise at the customs
of the French Court, which thus permitted them to abandon to the dangers of the chase, and
forsake in his need, their wisest statesman, were the natural modes of assistance and consolation
which so strange a rencontre supplied to Crevecoeur, for it was the Burgundian ambassador who
came to the assistance of the fallen Cardinal.

He found the minister in a lucky time and humour for essaying some of those practices on his
fidelity, to which it is well known that Balue had the criminal weakness to listen. Already
in the morning, as the jealous temper of Louis had suggested, more had passed betwixt them
than the Cardinal durst have reported to his master. But although he had listened with gratified
ears to the high value, which, he was assured by Crevecoeur, the Duke of Burgundy placed upon
his person and talents, and not without a feeling of temptation, when the Count hinted at the
munificence of his master's disposition, and the rich benefices of Flanders, it was not until
the accident, as we have related, had highly irritated him that, stung with wounded vanity,
he resolved, in a fatal hour, to show Louis XI that no enemy can be so dangerous as an offended
friend and confidant. On the present occasions he hastily requested Crevecoeur to separate
from him lest they should be observed, but appointed him a meeting for the evening in the Abbey
of Saint Martin's at Tours, after vesper service; and that in a tone which assured the Burgundian
that his master had obtained an advantage hardly to have been hoped for except in such a moment
of exasperation. In the meanwhile, Louis, who, though the most politic Prince of his time,
upon this, as on other occasions, had suffered his passions to interfere with his prudence,
followed contentedly the chase of the wild boar, which was now come to an interesting point.
It had so happened that a sounder (i.e., in the language of the period, a boar of only two
years old), had crossed the track of the proper object of the chase, and withdrawn in pursuit
of him all the dogs (except two or three couples of old stanch hounds) and the greater part
of the huntsmen. The King saw, with internal glee, Dunois, as well as others, follow upon this
false scent, and enjoyed in secret the thought of triumphing over that accomplished knight
in the art of venerie, which was then thought almost as glorious as war. Louis was well mounted,
and followed, close on the hounds; so that, when the original boar turned to bay in a marshy
piece of ground, there was no one near him but the King himself. Louis showed all the bravery
and expertness of an experienced huntsman; for, unheeding the danger, he rode up to the tremendous
animal, which was defending itself with fury against the dogs, and struck him with his boar
spear; yet, as the horse shied from the boar, the blow was not so effectual as either to kill
or disable him. No effort could prevail on the horse to charge a second time; so that the King,
dismounting, advanced on foot against the furious animal, holding naked in his hand one of
those short, sharp, straight, and pointed swords, which huntsmen used for such encounters.
The boar instantly quitted the dogs to rush on his human enemy, while the King, taking his
station, and posting himself firmly, presented the sword, with the purpose of aiming it at
the boar's throat, or rather chest, within the collarbone; in which case, the weight of the
beast, and the impetuosity of its career, would have served to accelerate its own destruction.
But, owing to the wetness of the ground, the King's foot slipped, just as this delicate and
perilous manoeuvre ought to have been accomplished, so that the point of the sword encountering
the cuirass of bristles on the outside of the creature's shoulder, glanced off without making
any impression, and Louis fell flat on the ground. This was so far fortunate for the Monarch,
because the animal, owing to the King's fall, missed his blow in his turn, and in passing only
rent with his tusk the King's short hunting cloak, instead of ripping up his thigh. But when,
after running a little ahead in the fury of his course, the boar turned to repeat his attack
on the King at the moment when he was rising, the life of Louis was in imminent danger. At
this critical moment, Quentin Durward, who had been thrown out in the chase by the slowness
of his horse, but who, nevertheless, had luckily distinguished and followed the blast of the
King's horn, rode up, and transfixed the animal with his spear.

The King, who had by this time recovered his feet, came in turn to Durward's assistance, and
cut the animal's throat with his sword. Before speaking a word to Quentin, he measured the
huge creature not only by paces, but even by feet--then wiped the sweat from his brow, and
the blood from his hands--then took off his hunting cap, hung it on a bush, and devoutly made
his orisons to the little leaden images which it contained--and at length, looking upon Durward,
said to him, "Is it thou, my young Scot?--Thou hast begun thy woodcraft well, and Maitre Pierre
owes thee as good entertainment as he gave thee at the Fleur de Lys yonder.--Why dost thou
not speak? Thou hast lost thy forwardness and fire, methinks, at the Court, where others find
both."

Quentin, as shrewd a youth as ever Scottish breeze breathed caution into, had imbibed more
awe than confidence towards his dangerous master, and was far too wise to embrace the perilous
permission of familiarity which he seemed thus invited to use. He answered in very few and
well chosen words, that if he ventured to address his Majesty at all, it could be but to crave
pardon for the rustic boldness with which he had conducted himself when ignorant of his high rank.

"Tush! man," said the King; "I forgive thy sauciness for thy spirit and shrewdness. I admired
how near thou didst hit upon my gossip Tristan's occupation. You have nearly tasted of his
handiwork since, as I am given to understand. I bid thee beware of him; he is a merchant who
deals in rough bracelets and tight necklaces. Help me to my horse;--I like thee, and will do
thee good. Build on no man's favour but mine--not even on thine uncle's or Lord Crawford's--and
say nothing of thy timely aid in this matter of the boar; for if a man makes boast that he
has served a King in such pinch, he must take the braggart humour for its own recompense."

The King then winded his horn, which brought up Dunois and several attendants, whose compliments
he received on the slaughter of such a noble animal, without scrupling to appropriate a much
greater share of merit than actually belonged to him; for he mentioned Durward's assistance
as slightly as a sportsman of rank, who, in boasting of the number of birds which he has bagged,
does not always dilate upon the presence and assistance of the gamekeeper. He then ordered
Dunois to see that the boar's carcass was sent to the brotherhood of Saint Martin, at Tours,
to mend their fare on holydays, and that they might remember the King in their private devotions.

"And," said Louis, "who hath seen his Eminence my Lord Cardinal? Methinks it were but poor
courtesy, and cold regard to Holy Church to leave him afoot here in the forest."

"May it please you," said Quentin, when he saw that all were silent, "I saw his Lordship the
Cardinal accommodated with a horse, on which he left the forest."

"Heaven cares for its own," replied the King. "Set forward to the Castle, my lords; we'll hunt
no more this morning.--You, Sir Squire," addressing Quentin, "reach me my wood knife--it has
dropt from the sheath beside the quarry there. Ride on, Dunois--I follow instantly."

Louis, whose lightest motions were often conducted like stratagems, thus gained an opportunity
to ask Quentin privately, "My bonny Scot, thou hast an eye, I see. Canst thou tell me who helped
the Cardinal to a palfrey?--Some stranger, I should suppose; for, as I passed without stopping,
the courtiers would likely be in no hurry to do him such a timely good turn."

"I saw those who aided his Eminence but an instant, Sire," said Quentin; "it was only a hasty
glance, for I had been unluckily thrown out, and was riding fast to be in my place; but I think
it was the Ambassador of Burgundy and his people."

"Ha," said Louis. "Well, be it so. France will match them yet."

There was nothing more remarkable happened, and the King, with his retinue, returned to the Castle.

CHAPTER X: THE SENTINEL

     Where should this music be?  i' the air or the earth?

     THE TEMPEST

     I was all ear,
     And took in strains that might create a soul
     Under the ribs of death.

     COMUS

Quentin had hardly reached his little cabin, in order to make some necessary changes in his
dress, when his worthy relation required to know the full particulars of all that had befallen
him at the hunt.

The youth, who could not help thinking that his uncle's hand was probably more powerful than
his understanding, took care, in his reply, to leave the King in full possession of the victory
which he had seemed desirous to appropriate. Le Balafre's reply was a boast of how much better
he himself would have behaved in the like circumstances, and it was mixed with a gentle censure
of his nephew's slackness in not making in to the King's assistance, when he might be in imminent
peril. The youth had prudence, in answer, to abstain from all farther indication of his own
conduct, except that, according to the rules of woodcraft, he held it ungentle to interfere
with the game attacked by another hunter, unless he was specially called upon for his assistance.
The discussion was scarcely ended, when occasion was afforded Quentin to congratulate himself
for observing some reserve towards his kinsman. A low tap at the door announced a visitor--it
was presently opened, and Oliver Dain, or Mauvais, or Diable, for by all these names he was
known, entered the apartment.

This able but most unprincipled man has been already described in so far as his exterior is
concerned. The aptest resemblance of his motions and manners might perhaps be to those of a
domestic cat, which, while couching in seeming slumber, or gliding through the apartment with
slow, stealthy, and timid steps, is now engaged in watching the hole of some unfortunate mouse,
now in rubbing herself with apparent confidence and fondness against those by whom she desires
to be caressed, and, presently after, is flying upon her prey, or scratching, perhaps, the
very object of her former cajolements.

He entered with stooping shoulders, a humble and modest look, and threw such a degree of civility
into his address to the Seignior Balafre, that no one who saw the interview could have avoided
concluding that he came to ask a boon of the Scottish Archer. He congratulated Lesly on the
excellent conduct of his young kinsman in the chase that day, which, he observed, had attracted
the King's particular attention. He here paused for a reply; and, with his eyes fixed on the
ground, save just when once or twice they stole upwards to take a side glance at Quentin, he
heard Balafre observe that his Majesty had been unlucky in not having himself by his side instead
of his nephew, as he would questionless have made in, and speared the brute, a matter which
he understood Quentin had left upon his Majesty's royal hands, so far as he could learn the story.

"But it will be a lesson to his Majesty," he said, "while he lives, to mount a man of my inches
on a better horse; for how could my great hill of a Flemish dray horse keep up with his Majesty's
Norman runner? I am sure I spurred till his sides were furrowed. It is ill considered, Master
Oliver, and you must represent it to his Majesty."

Master Oliver only replied to this observation by turning towards the bold, bluff speaker one
of those slow, dubious glances which, accompanied by a slight motion of the hand, and a gentle
depression of the head to one side, may be either interpreted as a mute assent to what is said,
or as a cautious deprecation of farther prosecution of the subject. It was a keener, more scrutinizing
glance, which he bent on the youth, as he said, with an ambiguous smile, "So, young man, is
it the wont of Scotland to suffer your Princes to be endangered for the lack of aid in such
emergencies as this of today?"

"It is our custom," answered Quentin, determined to throw no farther light on the subject,
"not to encumber them with assistance in honourable pastimes, when they can aid themselves
without it. We hold that a Prince in a hunting field must take his chance with others, and
that he comes there for the very purpose. What were woodcraft without fatigue and without danger?"

"You hear the silly boy," said his uncle; "that is always the way with him; he hath an answer
or a reason ready to be rendered to every one. I wonder whence he hath caught the gift; I never
could give a reason for anything I have ever done in my life, except for eating when I was
a-hungry, calling the muster roll, and such points of duty as the like."

"And pray, worthy Seignior," said the royal tonsor, looking at him from under his eyelids,
"what might your reason be for calling the muster roll on such occasions?"

"Because the Captain commanded me," said Le Balafre. "By Saint Giles [patron saint of lepers,
beggars, and cripples. He has been especially venerated in England and Scotland], I know no
other reason! If he had commanded Tyrie or Cunningham, they must have done the same."

"A most military final cause!" said Oliver. "But, Seignior Le Balafre, you will be glad, doubtless,
to learn that his Majesty is so far from being displeased with your nephew's conduct, that
he hath selected him to execute a piece of duty this afternoon."

"Selected him?" said Balafre in great surprise--"selected me, I suppose you mean?"

"I mean precisely as I speak," replied the barber, in a mild but decided tone; "the King hath
a commission with which to intrust your nephew."

"Why, wherefore, and for what reason?" said Balafre. "Why doth he choose the boy, and not me?"

"I can go no farther back than your own ultimate cause, Seignior Le Balafre, such are his Majesty's
commands. But," said he, "if I might use the presumption to form a conjecture, it may be his
Majesty hath work to do, fitter for a youth like your nephew, than for an experienced warrior
like yourself, Seignior Balafre.--Wherefore, young gentleman, get your weapons and follow me.
Bring with you a harquebuss, for you are to mount sentinel."

"Sentinel!" said the uncle. "Are you sure you are right, Master Oliver? The inner guards of
the Castle have ever been mounted by those only who have (like me) served twelve years in our
honourable body."

"I am quite certain of his Majesty's pleasure," said Oliver, "and must no longer delay executing
it."

"But," said Le Balafre, "my nephew is not even a free Archer, being only an Esquire, serving
under my lance."

"Pardon me," answered Oliver; "the King sent for the register not half an hour since, and enrolled
him among the Guard. Have the goodness to assist to put your nephew in order for the service."

Balafre, who had no ill nature, or even much jealousy in his disposition, hastily set about
adjusting his nephew's dress, and giving him directions for his conduct under arms, but was
unable to refrain from larding them with interjections of surprise at such luck's chancing
to fall upon the young man so early.

It had never taken place before in the Scottish Guard, he said, not even in his own instance.
But doubtless his service must be to mount guard over the popinjays and Indian peacocks, which
the Venetian ambassador had lately presented to the King--it could be nothing else; and such
duty being only fit for a beardless boy (here he twirled his own grim mustaches), he was glad
the lot had fallen on his fair nephew.

Quick and sharp of wit, as well as ardent in fancy, Quentin saw visions of higher importance
in this early summons to the royal presence, and his heart beat high at the anticipation of
rising into speedy distinction. He determined carefully to watch the manners and language of
his conductor, which he suspected must, in some cases at least, be interpreted by contraries,
as soothsayers are said to discover the interpretation of dreams. He could not but hug himself
on having observed strict secrecy on the events of the chase, and then formed a resolution,
which, for so young a person, had much prudence in it, that while he breathed the air of this
secluded and mysterious Court, he would keep his thoughts locked in his bosom, and his tongue
under the most careful regulation.

His equipment was soon complete, and, with his harquebuss on his shoulder (for though they
retained the name of Archers, the Scottish Guard very early substituted firearms for the long
bow, in the use of which their nation never excelled), he followed Master Oliver out of the
barrack.

His uncle looked long after him, with a countenance in which wonder was blended with curiosity;
and though neither envy nor the malignant feelings which it engenders entered into his honest
meditations, there was yet a sense of wounded or diminished self importance, which mingled
with the pleasure excited by his nephew's favourable commencement of service.

He shook his head gravely, opened a privy cupboard, took out a large bottrine of stout old
wine, shook it to examine how low the contents had ebbed, filled and drank a hearty cup; then
took his seat, half reclining, on the great oaken settle; and having once again slowly shaken
his head, received so much apparent benefit from the oscillation, that, like the toy called
a mandarin, he continued the motion until he dropped into a slumber, from which he was first
roused by the signal to dinner.

When Quentin Durward left his uncle to these sublime meditations, he followed his conductor,
Master Oliver, who, without crossing any of the principal courts, led him, partly through private
passages exposed to the open air, but chiefly through a maze of stairs, vaults, and galleries,
communicating with each other by secret doors and at unexpected points, into a large and spacious
latticed gallery, which, from its breadth, might have been almost termed a hall, hung with
tapestry more ancient than beautiful, and with a very few of the hard, cold, ghastly looking
pictures, belonging to the first dawn of the arts which preceded their splendid sunrise. These
were designed to represent the Paladins of Charlemagne, who made such a distinguished figure
in the romantic history of France; and as this gigantic form of the celebrated Orlando constituted
the most prominent figure, the apartment acquired from him the title of Rolando's Hall, or
Roland's Gallery.

[Charlemagne... was accounted a saint during the dark ages: and Louis XI, as one of his successors,
honoured his shrine with peculiar observance. S.]

[Orlando: also called Roland. His history may be read in the Chanson de Roland.]

"You will keep watch here," said Oliver, in a low whisper, as if the hard delineations of monarchs
and warriors around could have been offended at the elevation of his voice, or as if he had
feared to awaken the echoes that lurked among the groined vaults and Gothic drop work on the
ceiling of this huge and dreary apartment.

"What are the orders and signs of my watch?" answered Quentin, in the same suppressed tone.

"Is your harquebuss loaded?" replied Oliver, without answering his query.

"That," answered Quentin, "is soon done;" and proceeded to charge his weapon, and to light
the slow match (by which when necessary it was discharged) at the embers of a wood fire, which
was expiring in the huge hall chimney--a chimney itself so large that it might have been called
a Gothic closet or chapel appertaining to the hall.

When this was performed, Oliver told him that he was ignorant of one of the high privileges
of his own corps, which only received orders from the King in person, or the High Constable
of France, in lieu of their own officers. "You are placed here by his Majesty's command, young
man," added Oliver, "and you will not be long here without knowing wherefore you are summoned.
Meantime your walk extends along this gallery. You are permitted to stand still while you list,
but on no account to sit down, or quit your weapon. You are not to sing aloud, or whistle,
upon any account; but you may, if you list, mutter some of the church's prayers, or what else
you list that has no offence in it, in a low voice. Farewell, and keep good watch."

"Good watch!" thought the youthful soldier as his guide stole away from him with that noiseless
gliding step which was peculiar to him, and vanished through a side door behind the arras.

"Good watch! but upon whom and against whom?--for what, save bats or rats, are there here to
contend with, unless these grim old representatives of humanity should start into life for
the disturbance of my guard? Well, it is my duty, I suppose, and I must perform it."

With the vigorous purpose of discharging his duty, even to the very rigour, he tried to while
away the time with some of the pious hymns which he had learned in the convent in which he
had found shelter after the death of his father--allowing in his own mind, that, but for the
change of a novice's frock for the rich military dress which he now wore, his soldierly walk
in the royal gallery of France resembled greatly those of which he had tired excessively in
the cloistered seclusion of Aberbrothick.

Presently, as if to convince himself he now belonged not to the cell but to the world, he chanted
to himself, but in such tone as not to exceed the license given to him, some of the ancient
rude ballads which the old family harper had taught him, of the defeat of the Danes at Aberlemno
and Forres, the murder of King Duffus at Forfar, and other pithy sonnets and lays which appertained
to the history of his distant native country, and particularly of the district to which he
belonged. This wore away a considerable space of time, and it was now more than two hours past
noon when Quentin was reminded by his appetite that the good fathers of Aberbrothick, however
strict in demanding his attendance upon the hours of devotion, were no less punctual in summoning
him to those of refection; whereas here, in the interior of a royal palace, after a morning
spent in exercise, and a noon exhausted in duty, no man seemed to consider it as a natural
consequence that he must be impatient for his dinner.

There are, however, charms in sweet sounds which can lull to rest even the natural feelings
of impatience by which Quentin was now visited. At the opposite extremities of the long hall
or gallery were two large doors, ornamented with heavy architraves, probably opening into different
suites of apartments, to which the gallery served as a medium of mutual communication. As the
sentinel directed his solitary walk betwixt these two entrances, which formed the boundary
of his duty, he was startled by a strain of music which was suddenly waked near one of those
doors, and which, at least in his imagination, was a combination of the same lute and voice
by which he had been enchanted on the preceding day. All the dreams of yesterday morning, so
much weakened by the agitating circumstances which he had since undergone, again arose more
vivid from their slumber, and, planted on the spot where his ear could most conveniently, drink
in the sounds, Quentin remained, with his harquebuss shouldered, his mouth half open, ear,
eye, and soul directed to the spot, rather the picture of a sentinel than a living form,--without
any other idea than that of catching, if possible, each passing sound of the dulcet melody.

These delightful sounds were but partially heard--they languished, lingered, ceased entirely,
and were from time to time renewed after uncertain intervals. But, besides that music, like
beauty, is often most delightful, or at least most interesting, to the imagination when its
charms are but partially displayed and the imagination is left to fill up what is from distance
but imperfectly detailed, Quentin had matter enough to fill up his reverie during the intervals
of fascination. He could not doubt, from the report of his uncle's comrades and the scene which
had passed in the presence chamber that morning, that the siren who thus delighted his ears,
was not, as he had profanely supposed, the daughter or kinswoman of a base Cabaretier [inn
keeper], but the same disguised and distressed Countess for whose cause kings and princes were
now about to buckle on armour, and put lance in rest. A hundred wild dreams, such as romantic
and adventurous youth readily nourished in a romantic and adventurous age, chased from his
eyes the bodily presentiment of the actual scene, and substituted their own bewildering delusions,
when at once, and rudely, they were banished by a rough grasp laid upon his weapon, and a harsh
voice which exclaimed, close to his ear, "Ha! Pasques dieu, Sir Squire, methinks you keep sleepy
ward."

The voice was the tuneless, yet impressive and ironical tone of Maitre Pierre, and Quentin,
suddenly recalled to himself, saw, with shame and fear, that he had, in his reverie, permitted
Louis himself--entering probably by some secret door, and gliding along by the wall, or behind
the tapestry--to approach him so nearly as almost to master his weapon.

The first impulse of his surprise was to free his harquebuss by a violent exertion, which made
the King stagger backward into the hall. His next apprehension was that, in obeying the animal
instinct, as it may be termed, which prompts a brave man to resist an attempt to disarm him,
he had aggravated, by a personal struggle with the King, the displeasure produced by the negligence
with which he had performed his duty upon guard; and, under this impression, he recovered his
harquebuss without almost knowing what he did, and, having again shouldered it, stood motionless
before the Monarch, whom he had reason to conclude he had mortally offended.

Louis, whose tyrannical disposition was less founded on natural ferocity or cruelty of temper,
than on cold blooded policy and jealous suspicion, had, nevertheless, a share of that caustic
severity which would have made him a despot in private conversation, and he always seemed to
enjoy the pain which he inflicted on occasions like the present. But he did not push his triumph
far, and contented himself with saying, "Thy service of the morning hath already overpaid some
negligence in so young a soldier.--Hast thou dined?"

Quentin, who rather looked to be sent to the Provost Marshal than greeted with such a compliment,
answered humbly in the negative.

"Poor lad," said Louis, in a softer tone than he usually spoke in, "hunger hath made him drowsy.--I
know thine appetite is a wolf," he continued; "and I will save thee from one wild beast as
thou didst me from another; thou hast been prudent too in that matter, and I thank thee for
it.--Canst thou yet hold out an hour without food?"

"Four-and-twenty, Sire," replied Durward, "or I were no true Scot."

"I would not for another kingdom be the pasty which should encounter thee after such a vigil,"
said the King; "but the question now is, not of thy dinner, but of my own. I admit to my table
this day, and in strict privacy, the Cardinal Balue and this Burgundian--this Count de Crevecoeur--and
something may chance; the devil is most busy when foes meet on terms of truce."

He stopped, and remained silent, with a deep and gloomy look. As the King was in no haste to
proceed, Quentin at length ventured to ask what his duty was to be in these circumstances.

"To keep watch at the beauffet, with thy loaded weapon," said Louis; "and if there is treason,
to shoot the traitor."

"Treason, Sire! and in this guarded castle!" exclaimed Durward.

"You think it impossible," said the King, not offended, it would seem, by his frankness; "but
our history has shown that treason can creep into an auger hole.--Treason excluded by guards!
Oh, thou silly boy!--quis custodiat ipsos custodes--who shall exclude the treason of those
very warders?"

"Their Scottish honour," answered Durward, boldly.

"True: most right:--thou pleasest me," said the King, cheerfully; "the Scottish honour was
ever true, and I trust it accordingly. But treason!"--here he relapsed into his former gloomy
mood, and traversed the apartment with unequal steps--"she sits at our feasts, she sparkles
in our bowls, she wears the beard of our counsellors, the smiles of our courtiers, the crazy
laugh of our jesters--above all, she lies hid under the friendly air of a reconciled enemy.
Louis of Orleans trusted John of Burgundy--he was murdered in the Rue Barbette. John of Burgundy
trusted the faction of Orleans--he was murdered on the bridge of Montereau.--I will trust no
one--no one. Hark ye; I will keep my eye on that insolent Count; ay, and on the churchman too,
whom I hold not too faithful. When I say, Ecosse, en avant [Forward, Scotland], shoot Crevecoeur
dead on the spot."

"It is my duty," said Quentin, "your Majesty's life being endangered."

"Certainly--I mean it no otherwise," said the King. "What should I get by slaying this insolent
soldier?--Were it the Constable Saint Paul indeed"--here he paused, as if he thought he had
said a word too much, but resumed, laughing, "our brother-in-law, James of Scotland--your own
James, Quentin--poniarded the Douglas when on a hospitable visit, within his own royal castle
of Skirling."

[Douglas: the allusion in the text is to the fate of James, Earl of Douglas, who, upon the
faith of a safe conduct, after several acts of rebellion, visited James the Second in the Castle
of Stirling. The king stabbed Douglas, who received his mortal wound from Sir Patrick Grey,
one of the king's attendants.]

"Of Stirling," said Quentin, "and so please your Highness.--It was a deed of which came little
good."

"Stirling call you the castle?" said the King, overlooking the latter part of Quentin's speech.
"Well, let it be Stirling--the name is nothing to the purpose. But I meditate no injury to
these men--none.--It would serve me nothing. They may not purpose equally fair by me--I rely
on thy harquebuss."

"I shall be prompt at the signal," said Quentin; "but yet"

"You hesitate," said the King. "Speak out--I give thee full leave. From such as thou art, hints
may be caught that are right valuable."

"I would only presume to say," replied Quentin, "that your Majesty having occasion to distrust
this Burgundian, I marvel that you suffer him to approach so near your person, and that in
privacy."

"Oh, content you, Sir Squire," said the King. "There are some dangers which when they are braved,
disappear, and which yet, when there is an obvious and apparent dread of them displayed, become
certain and inevitable. When I walk boldly up to a surly mastiff, and caress him, it is ten
to one I soothe him to good temper; if I show fear of him, he flies on me and rends me. I will
be thus far frank with thee.--It concerns me nearly that this man returns not to his headlong
master in a resentful humour. I run my risk, therefore. I have never shunned to expose my life
for the weal of my kingdom. Follow me."

Louis led his young Life Guardsman, for whom he seemed to have taken a special favour, through
the side door by which he had himself entered, saying, as he showed it him, "He who would thrive
at Court must know the private wickets and concealed staircases--ay, and the traps and pitfalls
of the palace, as well as the principal entrances, folding doors, and portals."

After several turns and passages, the King entered a small vaulted room, where a table was
prepared for dinner with three covers. The whole furniture and arrangements of the room were
plain almost to meanness. A beauffet, or folding and movable cupboard, held a few pieces of
gold and silver plate, and was the only article in the chamber which had in the slightest degree
the appearance of royalty. Behind this cupboard, and completely hidden by it, was the post
which Louis assigned to Quentin Durward; and after having ascertained, by going to different
parts of the room, that he was invisible from all quarters, he gave him his last charge: "Remember
the word, Posse, en avant; and so soon as ever I utter these sounds, throw down the screen--spare
not for cup or goblet, and be sure thou take good aim at Crevecoeur--if thy piece fail, cling
to him, and use thy knife--Oliver and I can deal with the Cardinal."

Having thus spoken, he whistled aloud, and summoned into the apartment Oliver, who was premier
valet of the chamber as well as barber, and who, in fact, performed all offices immediately
connected with the King's person, and who now appeared, attended by two old men, who were the
only assistants or waiters at the royal table. So soon as the King had taken his place, the
visitors were admitted; and Quentin, though himself unseen, was so situated as to remark all
the particulars of the interview.

The King welcomed his visitors with a degree of cordiality which Quentin had the utmost difficulty
to reconcile with the directions which he had previously received, and the purpose for which
he stood behind the beauffet with his deadly weapon in readiness. Not only did Louis appear
totally free from apprehension of any kind, but one would have supposed that those visitors
whom he had done the high honour to admit to his table were the very persons in whom he could
most unreservedly confide, and whom he was, most willing to honour. Nothing could be more dignified,
and, at the same time, more courteous than his demeanour. While all around him, including even
his own dress, was far beneath the splendour which the petty princes of the kingdom displayed
in their festivities, his own language and manners were those of a mighty Sovereign in his
most condescending mood. Quentin was tempted to suppose, either that the whole of his previous
conversation with Louis had been a dream, or that the dutiful demeanour of the Cardinal, and
the frank, open, and gallant bearing of the Burgundian noble had entirely erased the King's
suspicion.

But whilst the guests, in obedience to the King, were in the act of placing themselves at the
table, his Majesty darted one keen glance on them, and then instantly directed his look to
Quentin's post. This was done in an instant; but the glance conveyed so much doubt and hatred
towards his guests, such a peremptory injunction on Quentin to be watchful in attendance, and
prompt in execution, that no room was left for doubting that the sentiments of Louis continued
unaltered, and his apprehensions unabated. He was, therefore, more than ever astonished at
the deep veil under which that Monarch was able to conceal the movements of his jealous disposition.

Appearing to have entirely forgotten the language which Crevecoeur had held towards him in
the face of his Court, the King conversed with him of old times, of events which had occurred
during his own exile in the territories of Burgundy, and inquired respecting all the nobles
with whom he had been then familiar, as if that period had indeed been the happiest of his
life, and as if he retained towards all who had contributed to soften the term of his exile,
the kindest and most grateful sentiments.

"To an ambassador of another nation," he said, "I would have thrown something of state into
our reception; but to an old friend, who often shared my board at the Castle of Genappes [during
his residence in Burgundy, in his father's lifetime, Genappes was the usual abode of Louis....
S.], I wished to show myself, as I love best to live, old Louis of Valois, as simple and plain
as any of his Parisian badauds [idlers]. But I directed them to make some better cheer than
ordinary for you, Sir Count, for I know your Burgundian proverb, 'Mieux vault bon repas que
bel habit' [a good meal is better than a beautiful coat. (Present spelling is vaut.)]; and
therefore I bid them have some care of our table. For our wine, you know well it is the subject
of an old emulation betwixt France and Burgundy, which we will presently reconcile; for I will
drink to you in Burgundy, and you, Sir Count, shall pledge me in Champagne.--Here, Oliver,
let me have a cup of Vin d'Auxerre;" and he hummed gaily a song then well known,

     "Auxerre est le boisson des Rois."

     [Auxerre wine is the beverage of kings]

"Here, Sir Count, I drink to the health of the noble Duke of Burgundy, our kind and loving
cousin.--Oliver, replenish yon golden cup with Vin de Rheims, and give it to the Count on your
knee--he represents our loving brother.--My Lord Cardinal, we will ourself fill your cup."

"You have already, Sire, even to overflowing," said the Cardinal, with the lowly mien of a
favourite towards an indulgent master.

"Because we know that your Eminence can carry it with a steady hand," said Louis. "But which
side do you espouse in the great controversy, Sillery or Auxerre--France or Burgundy?"

"I will stand neutral, Sire," said the Cardinal, "and replenish my cup with Auvernat."

"A neutral has a perilous part to sustain," said the King; but as he observed the Cardinal
colour somewhat, he glided from the subject and added, "But you prefer the Auvernat, because
it is so noble a wine it endures not water.--You, Sir Count, hesitate to empty your cup. I
trust you have found no national bitterness at the bottom."

"I would, Sire," said the Count de Crevecoeur, "that all national quarrels could be as pleasantly
ended as the rivalry betwixt our vineyards."

"With time, Sir Count," answered the King, "with time--such time as you have taken to your
draught of Champagne.--And now that it is finished, favour me by putting the goblet in your
bosom, and keeping it as a pledge of our regard. It is not to every one that we would part
with it. It belonged of yore to that terror of France, Henry V of England, and was taken when
Rouen was reduced, and those islanders expelled from Normandy by the joint arms of France and
Burgundy. It cannot be better bestowed than on a noble and valiant Burgundian, who well knows
that on the union of these two nations depends the continuance of the freedom of the continent
from the English yoke."

The Count made a suitable answer, and Louis gave unrestrained way to the satirical gaiety of
disposition which sometimes enlivened the darker shades of his character. Leading, of course,
the conversation, his remarks, always shrewd and caustic, and often actually witty, were seldom
good natured, and the anecdotes with which he illustrated them were often more humorous than
delicate; but in no one word, syllable, or letter did he betray the state of mind of one who,
apprehensive of assassination, hath in his apartment an armed soldier with his piece loaded,
in order to prevent or anticipate an attack on his person.

The Count de Crevecoeur gave frankly in to the King's humour [the nature of Louis XI's coarse
humour may be guessed at by those who have perused the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles, which are
grosser than most similar collections of the age. S.]; while the smooth churchman laughed at
every jest and enhanced every ludicrous idea, without exhibiting any shame at expressions which
made the rustic young Scot blush even in his place of concealment. In about an hour and a half
the tables were drawn; and the King, taking courteous leave of his guests, gave the signal
that it was his desire to be alone.

So soon as all, even Oliver, had retired, he called Quentin from his place of concealment;
but with a voice so faint, that the youth could scarcely believe it to be the same which had
so lately given animation to the jest, and zest to the tale. As he approached, he saw an equal
change in his countenance. The light of assumed vivacity had left the King's eyes, the smile
had deserted his face, and he exhibited all the fatigue of a celebrated actor, when he has
finished the exhausting representation of some favourite character, in which, while upon the
stage, he had displayed the utmost vivacity.

"Thy watch is not yet over," said he to Quentin; "refresh thyself for an instant--yonder table
affords the means; I will then instruct thee in thy farther duty. Meanwhile it is ill talking
between a full man and a fasting."

He threw himself back on his seat, covered his brow with his hand, and was silent.

CHAPTER XI: THE HALL OF ROLAND

     Painters show cupid blind--Hath Hymen eyes?
     Or is his sight warp'd by those spectacles
     which parents, guardians, and advisers, lent him,
     That he may look through them on lands and mansions,
     On jewels, gold, and all such rich dotations,
     And see their value ten times magnified?--
     Methinks 't will brook a question.

     THE MISERIES OF ENFORCED MARRIAGE

Louis XI of France, though the sovereign in Europe who was fondest and most jealous of power,
desired only its substantial enjoyment; and though he knew well enough, and at times exacted
strictly, the observances due to his rank, he was in general singularly careless of show.

In a prince of sounder moral qualities, the familiarity with which he invited subjects to his
board--nay, occasionally sat at theirs--must have been highly popular; and even such as he
was, the King's homeliness of manners atoned for many of his vices with that class of his subjects
who were not particularly exposed to the consequences of his suspicion and jealousy. The tiers
etat, or commons of France, who rose to more opulence and consequence under the reign of this
sagacious Prince, respected his person, though they loved him not; and it was resting on their
support that he was enabled to make his party good against the hatred of the nobles, who conceived
that he diminished the honour of the French crown, and obscured their own splendid privileges
by that very neglect of form which gratified the citizens and commons.

With patience which most other princes would have considered as degrading, and not without
a sense of amusement, the Monarch of France waited till his Life Guardsman had satisfied the
keenness of a youthful appetite. It may be supposed, however, that Quentin had too much sense
and prudence to put the royal patience to a long or tedious proof; and indeed he was repeatedly
desirous to break off his repast ere Louis would permit him.

"I see it in thine eye," he said good naturedly, "that thy courage is not half abated. Go on--God
and Saint Denis!--charge again. I tell thee that meat and mass" (crossing himself) "never hindered
the work of a good Christian man. Take a cup of wine; but mind thou be cautious of the wine
pot--it is the vice of thy countrymen as well as of the English, who, lacking that folly, are
the choicest soldiers ever wore armour. And now wash speedily--forget not thy benedicite, and
follow me."

Quentin obeyed, and, conducted by a different but as maze-like an approach as he had formerly
passed, he followed Louis into the Hall of Roland.

"Take notice," said the King, imperatively, "thou hast never left this post--let that be thine
answer to thy kinsman and comrades--and, hark thee, to bind the recollection on thy memory,
I give thee this gold chain" (flinging on his arm one of considerable value). "If I go not
brave myself, those whom I trust have ever the means to ruffle it with the best. But when such
chains as these bind not the tongue from wagging too freely, my gossip, L'Hermite, hath an
amulet for the throat, which never fails to work a certain cure. And now attend.--No man, save
Oliver or I myself, enters here this evening; but ladies will come hither, perhaps from the
one extremity of the hall, perhaps from the other, perhaps one from each. You may answer if
they address you, but, being on duty, your answer must be brief; and you must neither address
them in your turn, nor engage in any prolonged discourse. But hearken to what they say. Thine
ears as well as thy hands are mine--I have bought thee, body and soul. Therefore, if thou hearest
aught of their conversation, thou must retain it in memory until it is communicated to me,
and then forget it. And, now I think better on it, it will be best that thou pass for a Scottish
recruit, who hath come straight down from his mountains, and hath not yet acquired our most
Christian language.--Right.--So, if they speak to thee, thou wilt not answer--this will free
you from embarrassment, and lead them to converse without regard to your presence. You understand
me.--Farewell. Be wary, and thou hast a friend."

The King had scarce spoken these words ere he disappeared behind the arras, leaving Quentin
to meditate on what he had seen and heard. The youth was in one of those situations from which
it is pleasanter to look forward than to look back; for the reflection that he had been planted
like a marksman in a thicket who watches for a stag, to take the life of the noble Count of
Crevecoeur, had in it nothing ennobling. It was very true that the King's measures seemed on
this occasion merely cautionary and defensive; but how did the youth know but he might be soon
commanded on some offensive operation of the same kind? This would be an unpleasant crisis,
since it was plain, from the character of his master, that there would be destruction in refusing,
while his honour told him that there would be disgrace in complying. He turned his thoughts
from this subject of reflection with the sage consolation so often adopted by youth when prospective
dangers intrude themselves on their mind, that it was time enough to think what was to be done
when the emergence actually arrived, and that sufficient for the day was the evil thereof.

Quentin made use of this sedative reflection the more easily that the last commands of the
King had given him something more agreeable to think of than his own condition. The Lady of
the Lute was certainly one of those to whom his attention was to be dedicated; and well in
his mind did he promise to obey one part of the King's mandate, and listen with diligence to
every word that might drop from her lips that he might know if the magic of her conversation
equalled that of her music. But with as much sincerity did he swear to himself, that no part
of her discourse should be reported by him to the King which might affect the fair speaker
otherwise than favourably.

Meantime, there was no fear of his again slumbering on his post. Each passing breath of wind,
which, finding its way through the open lattice, waved the old arras, sounded like the approach
of the fair object of his expectation. He felt, in short, all that mysterious anxiety and eagerness
of expectation which is always the companion of love, and sometimes hath a considerable share
in creating it.

At length, a door actually creaked and jingled (for the doors even of palaces did not in the
fifteenth century turn on their hinges so noiseless as ours); but, alas! it was not at that
end of the hall from which the lute had been heard. It opened, however, and a female figure
entered, followed by two others, whom she directed by a sign to remain without, while she herself
came forward into the hall. By her imperfect and unequal gait, which showed to peculiar disadvantage
as she traversed this long gallery, Quentin at once recognised the Princess Joan, and with
the respect which became his situation, drew himself up in an attitude of silent vigilance,
and lowered his weapon to her as she passed. She acknowledged the courtesy by a gracious inclination
of her head, and he had an opportunity of seeing her countenance more distinctly than he had
in the morning.

There was little in the features of this ill fated Princess to atone for the misfortune of
her shape and gait. Her face was, indeed, by no means disagreeable in itself, though destitute
of beauty; and there was a meek impression of suffering patience in her large blue eyes, which
were commonly fixed upon the ground. But besides that she was extremely pallid in complexion,
her skin had the yellowish discoloured tinge which accompanies habitual bad health; and though
her teeth were white and regular, her lips were thin and pale. The Princess had a profusion
of flaxen hair, but it was so light coloured as to be almost of a bluish tinge; and her tire
woman, who doubtless considered the luxuriance of her mistress's tresses as a beauty, had not
greatly improved matters by arranging them in curls around her pale countenance, to which they
added an expression almost corpse-like and unearthly. To make matters still worse, she had
chosen a vest or cymar of a pale green silk, which gave her, on the whole, a ghastly and even
spectral appearance.

While Quentin followed this singular apparition with eyes in which curiosity was blended with
compassion, for every look and motion of the Princess seemed to call for the latter feeling,
two ladies entered from the upper end of the apartment.

One of these was the young person who upon Louis's summons had served him with fruit, while
Quentin made his memorable breakfast at the Fleur de Lys. Invested now with all the mysterious
dignity belonging to the nymph of the veil and lute, and proved, besides (at least in Quentin's
estimation), to be the high born heiress of a rich earldom, her beauty made ten times the impression
upon him which it had done when he beheld in her one whom he deemed the daughter of a paltry
innkeeper, in attendance upon a rich and humorous old burgher. He now wondered what fascination
could ever have concealed from him her real character. Yet her dress was nearly as simple as
before, being a suit of deep mourning, without any ornaments. Her headdress was but a veil
of crape, which was entirely thrown back, so as to leave her face uncovered; and it was only
Quentin's knowledge of her actual rank, which gave in his estimation new elegance to her beautiful
shape, a dignity to her step which had before remained unnoticed, and to her regular features,
brilliant complexion, and dazzling eyes, an air of conscious nobleness that enhanced their beauty.

Had death been the penalty, Durward must needs have rendered to this beauty and her companion
the same homage which he had just paid to the royalty of the Princess. They received it as
those who were accustomed to the deference of inferiors, and returned it with courtesy; but
he thought--perhaps it was but a youthful vision--that the young lady coloured slightly, kept
her eyes on the ground, and seemed embarrassed though in a trifling degree, as she returned
his military salutation. This must have been owing to her recollection of the audacious stranger
in the neighbouring turret at the Fleur de Lys; but did that discomposure express displeasure?
This question he had no means to determine.

The companion of the youthful Countess, dressed like herself simply and in deep mourning, was
at the age when women are apt to cling most closely to that reputation for beauty which has
for years been diminishing. She had still remains enough to show what the power of her charms
must once have been, and, remembering past triumphs, it was evident from her manner that she
had not relinquished the pretensions to future conquests. She was tall and graceful, though
somewhat haughty in her deportment, and returned the salute of Quentin with a smile of gracious
condescension, whispering the next instant something into her companion's ear, who turned towards
the soldier as if to comply with some hint from the elder lady, but answered, nevertheless,
without raising her eyes. Quentin could not help suspecting that the observation called on
the young lady to notice his own good mien; and he was (I do not know why) pleased with the
idea that the party referred to did not choose to look at him, in order to verify with her
own eyes the truth of the observation. Probably he thought there was already a sort of mysterious
connexion beginning to exist between them, which gave importance to the slightest trifle.

This reflection was momentary, for he was instantly wrapped up in attention to the meeting
of the Princess Joan with these stranger ladies. She had stood still upon their entrance, in
order to receive them, conscious, perhaps, that motion did not become her well; and as she
was somewhat embarrassed in receiving and repaying their compliments, the elder stranger, ignorant
of the rank of the party whom she addressed, was led to pay her salutation in a manner rather
as if she conferred than received an honour through the interview.

"I rejoice," she said, with a smile which was meant to express condescension at once and encouragement,
"that we are at length permitted the society of such a respectable person of our own sex as
you appear to be. I must say that my niece and I have had but little for which to thank the
hospitality of King Louis.--Nay, niece, never pluck my sleeve--I am sure I read in the looks
of this young lady sympathy for out situation.--Since we came hither, fair madam, we have been
used little better than mere prisoners; and after a thousand invitations to throw our cause
and our persons under the protection of France, the Most Christian King has afforded us at
first but a base inn for our residence, and now a corner of this moth eaten palace, out of
which we are only permitted to creep towards sunset, as if we were bats or owls, whose appearance
in the sunshine is to be held matter of ill omen."

"I am sorry," said the Princess, faltering with the awkward embarrassment of the interview,
"that we have been unable, hitherto, to receive you according to your deserts.--Your niece,
I trust, is better satisfied?"

"Much--much better than I can express," answered the youthful Countess. "I sought but safety
and I have found solitude and secrecy besides. The seclusion of our former residence, and the
still greater solitude of that now assigned to us, augment, in my eye, the favour which the
King vouchsafed to us unfortunate fugitives."

"Silence, my silly cousin," said the elder lady, "and let us speak according to our conscience,
since at last we are alone with one of our own sex--I say alone, for that handsome young soldier
is a mere statue, since he seems not to have the use of his limbs, and I am given to understand
he wants that of his tongue, at least in civilized language--I say, since no one but this lady
can understand us, I must own there is nothing I have regretted equal to taking this French
journey. I looked for a splendid reception, tournaments, carousals, pageants, and festivals;
instead of which, all has been seclusion and obscurity! and the best society whom the King
introduced to us, was a Bohemian vagabond, by whose agency he directed us to correspond with
our friends in Flanders.--Perhaps," said the lady, "it is his politic intention to mew us up
here until our lives' end, that he may seize on our estates, after the extinction of the ancient
house of Croye. The Duke of Burgundy was not so cruel; he offered my niece a husband, though
he was a bad one."

"I should have thought the veil preferable to an evil husband," said the Princess, with difficulty
finding opportunity to interpose a word.

"One would at least wish to have the choice, madam," replied the voluble dame. "It is, Heaven
knows, on account of my niece that I speak; for myself, I have long laid aside thoughts of
changing my condition. I see you smile, but by my halidome, it is true--yet that is no excuse
for the King, whose conduct, like his person, hath more resemblance to that of old Michaud,
the moneychanger of Ghent, than to the successor of Charlemagne."

"Hold!" said the Princess, with some asperity in her tone; "remember you speak of my father."

"Of your father!" replied the Burgundian lady, in surprise.

"Of my father," repeated the Princess, with dignity, "I am Joan of France.--But fear not, madam,"
she continued, in the gentle accent which was natural to her, "you designed no offence, and
I have taken none. Command my influence to render your exile and that of this interesting young
person more supportable. Alas! it is but little I have in my power, but it is willingly offered."

Deep and submissive was the reverence with which the Countess Hameline de Croye, so was the
elder lady called, received the obliging offer of the Princess's protection. She had been long
the inhabitant of courts, was mistress of the manners which are there acquired, and held firmly
the established rule of courtiers of all ages, who, although their usual private conversation
turns upon the vices and follies of their patrons, and on the injuries and neglect which they
themselves have sustained, never suffer such hints to drop from them in the presence of the
Sovereign or those of his family. The lady was, therefore, scandalised to the last degree at
the mistake which had induced her to speak so indecorously in presence of the daughter of Louis.
She would have exhausted herself in expressing regret and making apologies, had she not been
put to silence and restored to equanimity by the Princess, who requested, in the most gentle
manner, yet which, from a Daughter of France, had the weight of a command, that no more might
be said in the way either of excuse or of explanation.

The Princess Joan then took her own chair with a dignity which became her, and compelled the
two strangers to sit, one on either hand, to which the younger consented with unfeigned and
respectful diffidence, and the elder with an affectation of deep humility and deference which
was intended for such.

They spoke together, but in such a low tone that the sentinel could not overhear their discourse,
and only remarked that the Princess seemed to bestow much of her regard on the younger and
more interesting lady; and that the Countess Hameline, though speaking a great deal more, attracted
less of the Princess's attention by her full flow of conversation and compliment, than did
her kinswoman by her brief and modest replies to what was addressed to her.

The conversation of the ladies had not lasted a quarter of an hour, when the door at the lower
end of the hall opened, and a man entered shrouded in a riding cloak. Mindful of the King's
injunction, and determined not to be a second time caught slumbering, Quentin instantly moved
towards the intruder, and, interposing between him and the ladies, requested him to retire
instantly.

"By whose command?" said the stranger, in a tone of contemptuous surprise.

"By that of the King," said Quentin, firmly, "which I am placed here to enforce."

"Not against Louis of Orleans," said the Duke, dropping his cloak.

The young man hesitated a moment; but how enforce his orders against the first Prince of the
Blood, about to be allied, as the report now generally went, with the King's own family?

"Your Highness," he said, "is too great that your pleasure should be withstood by me. I trust
your Highness will bear me witness that I have done the duty of my post so far as your will
permitted."

"Go to--you shall have no blame, young soldier," said Orleans; and passing forward, paid his
compliments to the Princess, with that air of constraint which always marked his courtesy when
addressing her.

He had been dining, he said, with Dunois, and understanding there was society in Roland's Gallery,
he had ventured on the freedom of adding one to the number.

The colour which mounted into the pale cheek of the unfortunate Joan, and which for the moment
spread something of beauty over her features, evinced that this addition to the company was
anything but indifferent to her. She hastened to present the Prince to the two Ladies of Croye,
who received him with the respect due to his eminent rank; and the Princess, pointing to a
chair, requested him to join their conversation party.

The Duke declined the freedom of assuming a seat in such society; but taking a cushion from
one of the settles, he laid it at the feet of the beautiful young Countess of Croye, and so
seated himself, that, without appearing to neglect the Princess, he was enabled to bestow the
greater share of his attention on her lovely neighbour.

At first, it seemed as if this arrangement rather pleased than offended his destined bride.
She encouraged the Duke in his gallantries towards the fair stranger, and seemed to regard
them as complimentary to herself. But the Duke of Orleans, though accustomed to subject his
mind to the stern yoke of his uncle when in the King's presence, had enough of princely nature
to induce him to follow his own inclinations whenever that restraint was withdrawn; and his
high rank giving him a right to overstep the ordinary ceremonies, and advance at once to familiarity,
his praises of the Countess Isabelle's beauty became so energetic, and flowed with such unrestrained
freedom, owing perhaps to his having drunk a little more wine than usual--for Dunois was no
enemy to the worship of Bacchus--that at length he seemed almost impassioned, and the presence
of the Princess appeared well nigh forgotten.

The tone of compliment which he indulged was grateful only to one individual in the circle;
for the Countess Hameline already anticipated the dignity of an alliance with the first Prince
of the Blood, by means of her whose birth, beauty, and large possessions rendered such an ambitious
consummation by no means impossible, even in the eyes of a less sanguine projector, could the
views of Louis XI have been left out of the calculation of chances. The younger Countess listened
to the Duke's gallantries with anxiety and embarrassment, and ever and anon turned an entreating
look towards the Princess, as if requesting her to come to her relief. But the wounded feelings
and the timidity of Joan of France rendered her incapable of an effort to make the conversation
more general; and at length, excepting a few interjectional civilities of the Lady Hameline,
it was maintained almost exclusively by the Duke himself, though at the expense of the younger
Countess of Croye, whose beauty formed the theme of his high flown eloquence.

Nor must I forget that there was a third person, the unregarded sentinel, who saw his fair
visions melt away like wax before the sun, as the Duke persevered in the warm tenor of his
passionate discourse. At length the Countess Isabelle de Croye made a determined effort to
cut short what was becoming intolerably disagreeable to her, especially from the pain to which
the conduct of the Duke was apparently subjecting the Princess.

Addressing the latter, she said, modestly, but with some firmness, that the first boon she
had to claim from her promised protection was, "that her Highness would undertake to convince
the Duke of Orleans that the ladies of Burgundy, though inferior in wit and manners to those
of France, were not such absolute fools as to be pleased with no other conversation than that
of extravagant compliment."

"I grieve, lady," said the Duke, preventing the Princess's answer, "that you will satirize,
in the same sentence, the beauty of the dames of Burgundy and the sincerity of the Knights
of France. If we are hasty and extravagant in the expression of our admiration, it is because
we love as we fight, Without letting cold deliberation come into our bosoms, and surrender
to the fair with the same rapidity with which we defeat the valiant."

"The beauty of our countrywomen," said the young Countess, with more of reproof than she had
yet ventured to use towards the high born suitor, "is as unfit to claim such triumphs, as the
valour of the men of Burgundy is incapable of yielding them."

"I respect your patriotism, Countess," said the Duke; "and the last branch of your theme shall
not be impugned by me, till a Burgundian knight shall offer to sustain it with lance in rest.
But for the injustice which you have done to the charms which your land produces, I appeal
from yourself to yourself.--Look there," he said, pointing to a large mirror, the gift of the
Venetian republic, and then of the highest rarity and value, "and tell me, as you look, what
is the heart that can resist the charms there represented?"

The Princess, unable to sustain any longer the neglect of her lover, here sunk backwards on
her chair with a sigh, which at once recalled the Duke from the land of romance, and induced
the Lady Hameline to ask whether her Highness found herself ill.

"A sudden pain shot through my forehead," said the Princess, attempting to smile; "but I shall
be presently better."

Her increasing paleness contradicted her words, and induced the Lady Hameline to call for assistance,
as the Princess was about to faint.

The Duke, biting his lip, and cursing the folly which could not keep guard over his tongue,
ran to summon the Princess's attendants, who were in the next chamber, and when they came hastily,
with the usual remedies, he could not but, as a cavalier and gentleman, give his assistance
to support and to recover her. His voice, rendered almost tender by pity and self reproach,
was the most powerful means of recalling her to herself, and just as the swoon was passing
away, the King himself entered the apartment.

CHAPTER XII: THE POLITICIAN

     This is a lecturer, so skill'd in policy,
     That (no disparagement to Satan's cunning)
     He well might read a lesson to the devil,
     And teach the old seducer new temptations.

     OLD PLAY

As Louis entered the gallery, he bent his brows in the manner we have formerly described as
peculiar to him, and sent, from under his gathered and gloomy eyebrows, a keen look on all
around; in darting which, as Quentin afterwards declared, his eyes seemed to turn so small,
so fierce, and so piercing, as to resemble those of an aroused adder looking through the bush
of heath in which he lies coiled.

When, by this momentary and sharpened glance, the King had reconnoitered the cause of the bustle
which was in the apartment, his first address was to the Duke of Orleans.

"You here, my fair cousin?" he said;--and turning to Quentin, added sternly, "Had you not charge?"

"Forgive the young man, Sire," said the Duke; "he did not neglect his duty; but I was informed
that the Princess was in this gallery."

"And I warrant you would not be withstood when you came hither to pay your court," said the
King, whose detestable hypocrisy persisted in representing the Duke as participating in a passion
which was felt only on the side of his unhappy daughter; "and it is thus you debauch the sentinels
of my guard, young man?--But what cannot be pardoned to a gallant who only lives par amours
[by his love affairs]?"

The Duke of Orleans raised his head, as if about to reply in some manner which might correct
the opinion conveyed in the King's observation; but the instinctive reverence, not to say fear,
of Louis, in which he had been bred from childhood, chained up his voice.

"And Joan hath been ill?" said the King; "but do not be grieved, Louis; it will soon pass away;
lend her your arm to her apartment, while I will conduct these strange ladies to theirs."

The order was given in a tone which amounted to a command, and Orleans accordingly made his
exit with the Princess at one extremity of the gallery, while the King, ungloving his right
hand, courteously handed the Countess Isabelle and her kinswoman to their apartment, which
opened from the other. He bowed profoundly as they entered, and remained standing on the threshold
for a minute after they had disappeared; then, with great composure, shut the door by which
they had retired and turning the huge key, took it from the lock, and put it into his girdle--an
appendage which gave him still more perfectly the air of some old miser, who cannot journey
in comfort unless he bear with him the key of his treasure closet.

With slow and pensive step, and eyes fixed on the ground, Louis now paced towards Quentin Durward,
who, expecting his share of the royal displeasure, viewed his approach with no little anxiety.

"Thou hast done wrong," said the King, raising his eyes, and fixing them firmly on him when
he had come within a yard of him,--"thou hast done foul wrong, and deservest to die.--Speak
not a word in defence!--What hadst thou to do with Dukes or Princesses?--what with any thing
but my order?"

"So please your Majesty," said the young soldier, "what could I do?"

"What couldst thou do when thy post was forcibly passed?" answered the King, scornfully,--"what
is the use of that weapon on thy shoulder? Thou shouldst have levelled thy piece, and if the
presumptuous rebel did not retire on the instant, he should have died within this very hall!
Go--pass into these farther apartments. In the first thou wilt find a large staircase, which
leads to the inner Bailley; there thou wilt find Oliver Dain [the inner bailey contained the
stables and often the chapel. It communicated directly with the keep]. Send him to me--do thou
begone to thy quarters.--As thou dost value thy life, be not so loose of thy tongue as thou
hast been this day slack of thy hand."

Well pleased to escape so easily, yet with a soul which revolted at the cold blooded cruelty
which the King seemed to require from him in the execution of his duty, Durward took the road
indicated; hastened down stairs, and communicated the royal pleasure to Oliver, who was waiting
in the court beneath. The wily tonsor bowed, sighed, and smiled, as, with a voice even softer
than ordinary, he wished the youth a good evening; and they parted, Quentin to his quarters,
and Oliver to attend the King.

In this place, the Memoirs which we have chiefly followed in compiling this true history were
unhappily defective; for, founded chiefly on information supplied by Quentin, they do not convey
the purport of the dialogue which, in his absence, took place between the King and his secret
counsellor. Fortunately the Library of Hautlieu contains a manuscript copy of the Chronique
Scandaleuse of Jean de Troyes [the Marquis de Hautlieu is the name of an imaginary character
in whose library Scott declares himself to have found the memorials which form the basis of
the novel of Quentin Durward], much more full than that which has been printed; to which are
added several curious memoranda, which we incline to think must have been written down by Oliver
himself after the death of his master, and before he had the happiness to be rewarded with
the halter which he had so long merited. From this we have been able to extract a very full
account of the obscure favourite's conversation with Louis upon the present occasion, which
throws a light upon the policy of that Prince, which we might otherwise have sought for in vain.

When the favourite attendant entered the Gallery of Roland, he found the King pensively seated
upon the chair which his daughter had left some minutes before. Well acquainted with his temper,
he glided on with his noiseless step until he had just crossed the line of the King's sight,
so as to make him aware of his presence, then shrank modestly backward and out of sight, until
he should be summoned to speak or to listen. The Monarch's first address was an unpleasant
one: "So, Oliver, your fine schemes are melting like snow before the south wind!--I pray to
Our Lady of Embrun that they resemble not the ice heaps of which the Switzer churls tell such
stories, and come rushing down upon our heads."

"I have heard with concern that all is not well, Sire," answered Oliver.

"Not well!" exclaimed the King, rising and hastily marching up and down the gallery. "All is
ill, man--and as ill nearly as possible; so much for thy fond romantic advice, that I, of all
men, should become a protector of distressed damsels! I tell thee Burgundy is arming, and on
the eve of closing an alliance with England. And Edward, who hath his hands idle at home, will
pour his thousands upon us through that unhappy gate of Calais. Singly, I might cajole or defy
them; but united, united--and with the discontent and treachery of that villain Saint Paul!--All
thy fault, Oliver, who counselled me to receive the women, and to use the services of that
damned Bohemian to carry messages to their vassals."

"My lord," said Oliver, "you know my reasons. The Countess's domains lie between the frontiers
of Burgundy and Flanders--her castle is almost impregnable--her rights over neighbouring estates
are such as, if well supported, cannot but give much annoyance to Burgundy, were the lady but
wedded to one who should be friendly to France."

"It is, it is a tempting bait," said the King; "and could we have concealed her being here,
we might have arranged such a marriage for this rich heiress as would have highly profited--France.
But that cursed Bohemian, how couldst thou recommend such a heathen hound for a commission
which required trust?"

"Please you," said Oliver, "to remember it was your Grace's self who trusted him too far--much
farther than I recommended. He would have borne a letter trustily enough to the Countess's
kinsman, telling him to hold out her castle, and promising speedy relief; but your Highness
must needs put his prophetic powers to the test; and thus he became possessed of secrets which
were worth betraying to Duke Charles."

"I am ashamed, I am ashamed," said Louis. "And yet, Oliver, they say that these heathen people
are descended from the sage Chaldeans, who did read the mysteries of the stars in the plains
of Shinar [they lie between the Tigris and Euphrates]."

Well aware that his master, with all his acuteness and sagacity, was but the more prone to
be deceived by soothsayers, astrologers, diviners, and all that race of pretenders to occult
science, and that he even conceived himself to have some skill in these arts. Oliver dared
to press this point no farther; and only observed that the Bohemian had been a bad prophet
on his own account, else he would have avoided returning to Tours, and saved himself from the
gallows he had merited.

"It often happens that those who are gifted with prophetic knowledge," answered Louis, with
much gravity, "have not the power of foreseeing those events in which they themselves are personally
interested."

"Under your Majesty's favour," replied the confidant, "that seems as if a man could not see
his own hand by means of the candle which he holds, and which shows him every other object
in the apartment."

"He cannot see his own features by the light which shows the faces of others," replied Louis;
"and that is the more faithful illustration of the case.--But this is foreign to my purpose
at present. The Bohemian hath had his reward, and peace be with him.--But these ladies!--Not
only does Burgundy threaten us with war for harbouring them, but their presence is like to
interfere with my projects in my own family. My simple cousin of Orleans hath barely seen this
damsel, and I venture to prophesy that the sight of her is like to make him less pliable in
the matter of his alliance with Joan."

"Your Majesty," answered the counsellor, "may send these ladies of Croye back to Burgundy,
and so make your peace with the Duke. Many might murmur at this as dishonourable; but if necessity
demands the sacrifice--"

"If profit demanded the sacrifice, Oliver, the sacrifice should be made without hesitation,"
answered the King. "I am an old, experienced salmon, and use not to gulp the angler's hook
because it is busked up with a feather called honour. But what is worse than a lack of honour,
there were, in returning those ladies to Burgundy, a forfeiture of those views of advantage
which moved us to give them an asylum. It were heart breaking to renounce the opportunity of
planting a friend to ourselves, and an enemy to Burgundy, in the very centre of his dominions,
and so near to the discontented cities of Flanders. Oliver, I cannot relinquish the advantages
which our scheme of marrying the maiden to a friend of our own house seems to hold out to us."

"Your Majesty," said Oliver, after a moment's thought, "might confer her hand on some right
trusty friend, who would take all blame on himself, and serve your Majesty secretly, while
in public you might disown him."

"And where am I to find such a friend?" said Louis. "Were I to bestow her upon any one of our
mutinous and ill ruled nobles, would it not be rendering him independent? and hath it not been
my policy for years to prevent them from becoming so?--Dunois indeed--him, and him only, I
might perchance trust.--He would fight for the crown of France, whatever were his condition.
But honours and wealth change men's natures.--Even Dunois I will not trust."

"Your Majesty may find others," said Oliver, in his smoothest manner, and in a tone more insinuating
than that which he usually employed in conversing with the King, who permitted him considerable
freedom; "men dependent entirely on your own grace and favour, and who could no more exist
without your countenance than without sun or air--men rather of head than of action--men who"

"Men who resemble thyself, ha!" said King Louis. "No, Oliver, by my faith that arrow was too
rashly shot!--What! because I indulge thee with my confidence, and let thee, in reward, poll
my lieges a little now and then, dost thou think it makes thee fit to be the husband of that
beautiful vision, and a Count of the highest class to boot?--thee--thee, I say, low born, and
lower bred, whose wisdom is at best a sort of dinning, and whose courage is more than doubtful."

"Your Majesty imputes to me a presumption of which I am not guilty, in supposing me to aspire
so highly," said Oliver.

"I am glad to hear it, man," said the King; "and truly, I hold your judgment the healthier
that you disown such a reverie. But methinks thy speech sounded strangely in that key.--Well,
to return.--I dare not wed this beauty to one of my subjects--I dare not return her to Burgundy--I
dare not transmit her to England or to Germany, where she is likely to become the prize of
some one more apt to unite with Burgundy than with France, and who would be more ready to discourage
the honest malcontents in Ghent and Liege, than to yield them that wholesome countenance which
might always find Charles the Hardy enough to exercise his valour on, without stirring from
his domains--and they were in so ripe a humour for insurrection, the men of Liege in especial,
that they alone, well heated and supported, would find my fair cousin work for more than a
twelvemonth; and backed by a warlike Count of Croye--O, Oliver! the plan is too hopeful to
be resigned without a struggle.--Cannot thy fertile brain devise some scheme?"

Oliver paused for a long time--then at last replied, "What if a bridal could be accomplished
betwixt Isabelle of Croye and young Adolphus, the Duke of Gueldres?"

"What!" said the King, in astonishment "sacrifice her, and she, too, so lovely a creature,
to the furious wretch who deposed, imprisoned, and has often threatened to murder his own father!--No,
Oliver, no that were too unutterably cruel even for you and me, who look so steadfastly to
our excellent end, the peace and the welfare of France, and respect so little the means by
which it is attained. Besides, he lies distant from us and is detested by the people of Ghent
and Liege.--No, no--I will none of Adolphus of Gueldres--think on some one else."

"My invention is exhausted, Sire," said the counsellor; "I can remember no one who, as husband
to the Countess of Croye, would be likely to answer your Majesty's views. He must unite such
various qualities--a friend to your Majesty--an enemy to Burgundy--of policy enough to conciliate
the Ghentois and Liegeois, and of valour sufficient to defend his little dominions against
the power of Duke Charles--of noble birth besides--that your Highness insists upon; and of
excellent and virtuous character to the boot of all."

"Nay, Oliver," said the King, "I leaned not so much--that is so very much, on character; but
methinks Isabelle's bridegroom should be something less publicly and generally abhorred than
Adolphus of Gueldres. For example, since I myself must suggest some one--why not William de
la Marck?"

"On my halidome, Sire," said Oliver, "I cannot complain of your demanding too high a standard
of moral excellence in the happy man, if the Wild Boar of Ardennes can serve your turn. De
la Marck!--why, he is the most notorious robber and murderer on all the frontiers--excommunicated
by the Pope for a thousand crimes."

"We will have him released from the sentence, friend Oliver--Holy Church is merciful."

"Almost an outlaw," continued Oliver, "and under the ban of the Empire, by an ordinance of
the Chamber at Ratisbon."

[Ratisbon was the seat of the German Reichstag from 1663 to 1806.]

"We will have the ban taken off, friend Oliver," continued the King, in the same tone; "the
Imperial Chamber will hear reason."

[A supreme court of appeals established in 1495 by Maximilian I: the first law court established
in Germany.]

"And admitting him to be of noble birth," said Oliver, "he hath the manners, the face, and
the outward form, as well as the heart, of a Flemish butcher--she will never accept of him."

"His mode of wooing, if I mistake him not," said Louis, "will render it difficult for her to
make a choice."

"I was far wrong indeed, when I taxed your Majesty with being over scrupulous," said the counsellor.
"On my life, the crimes of Adolphus are but virtues to those of De la Marck!--And then how
is he to meet with his bride? Your Majesty knows he dare not stir far from his own forest of
Ardennes."

"That must be cared for," said the King; "and, in the first place, the two ladies must be acquainted
privately that they can be no longer maintained at this Court, except at the expense of a war
between France and Burgundy, and that, unwilling to deliver them up to my fair cousin of Burgundy,
I am desirous they should secretly depart from my dominions."

"They will demand to be conveyed to England," said Oliver "and we shall have her return to
Flanders with an island lord, having a round, fair face, long brown hair, and three thousand
archers at his back."

"No--no," replied the king; "we dare not (you understand me) so far offend our fair cousin
of Burgundy as to let her pass to England. It would bring his displeasure as certainly as our
maintaining her here. No, no--to the safety of the Church alone we will venture to commit her;
and the utmost we can do is to connive at the Ladies Hameline and Isabelle de Croye departing
in disguise, and with a small retinue, to take refuge with the Bishop of Liege, who will place
the fair Isabelle for the time under the safeguard of a convent."

"And if that convent protect her from William de la Marck, when he knows of your Majesty's
favourable intentions, I have mistaken the man."

"Why, yes," answered the King, "thanks to our secret supplies of money, De la Marck hath together
a handsome handful of as unscrupulous soldiery as ever were outlawed; with which he contrives
to maintain himself among the woods, in such a condition as makes him formidable both to the
Duke of Burgundy and the Bishop of Liege. He lacks nothing but some territory which he may
call his own; and this being so fair an opportunity to establish himself by marriage, I think
that, Pasques dieu! he will find means to win and wed, without more than a hint on our part.
The Duke of Burgundy will then have such a thorn in his side as no lancet of our time will
easily cut out from his flesh. The Boar of Ardennes, whom he has already outlawed, strengthened
by the possession of that fair lady's lands, castles, and seigniory, with the discontented
Liegeois to boot, who, by may faith, will not be in that case unwilling to choose him for their
captain and leader--let Charles then think of wars with France when he will, or rather let
him bless his stars if she war not with him.--How dost thou like the scheme, Oliver, ha?"

"Rarely," said Oliver, "save and except the doom which confers that lady on the Wild Boar of
Ardennes.--By my halidome, saving in a little outward show of gallantry, Tristan, the Provost
Marshal, were the more proper bridegroom of the two."

"Anon thou didst propose Master Oliver the barber," said Louis; "but friend Oliver and gossip
Tristan, though excellent men in the way of counsel and execution, are not the stuff that men
make counts of.--Know you not that the burghers of Flanders value birth in other men precisely
because they have it not themselves?--A plebeian mob ever desire an aristocratic leader. Yonder
Ked, or Cade, or--how called they him?--in England, was fain to lure his rascal rout after
him by pretending to the blood of the Mortimers [Jack Cade was the leader of Cade's Rebellion.
Calling himself Mortimer, and claiming to be a cousin of Richard, Duke of York, in 1450, at
the head of twenty thousand men, he took formal possession of London. His alleged object was
to procure representation for the people, and so reduce excessive taxation.]. William de la
Marck comes of the blood of the Princes of Sedan, as noble as mine own.--And now to business.
I must determine the ladies of Croye to a speedy and secret flight, under sure guidance. This
will be easily done--we have but to hint the alternative of surrendering them to Burgundy.
Thou must find means to let William de la Marck know of their motions, and let him choose his
own time and place to push his suit. I know a fit person to travel with them."

"May I ask to whom your Majesty commits such an important charge?" asked the tonsor.

"To a foreigner, be sure," replied the King, "one who has neither kin nor interest in France,
to interfere with the execution of my pleasure; and who knows too little of the country and
its factions, to suspect more of my purpose than I choose to tell him--in a word, I design
to employ the young Scot who sent you hither but now."

Oliver paused in a manner which seemed to imply a doubt of the prudence of the choice, and
then added, "Your Majesty has reposed confidence in that stranger boy earlier than is your wont."

"I have my reasons," answered the King. "Thou knowest" (and he crossed himself) "my devotion
for the blessed Saint Julian. I had been saying my orisons to that holy Saint late in the night
before last, wherein (as he is known to be the guardian of travellers) I made it my humble
petition that he would augment my household with such wandering foreigners as might best establish
throughout our kingdom unlimited devotion to our will; and I vowed to the good Saint in guerdon,
that I would, in his name, receive, and relieve; and maintain them."

"And did Saint Julian," said Oliver, "send your Majesty this long legged importation from Scotland
in answer to your prayers?"

Although the barber, who well knew that his master had superstition in a large proportion to
his want of religion, and that on such topics nothing was more easy than to offend him--although,
I say, he knew the royal weakness, and therefore carefully put the preceding question in the
softest and most simple tone of voice, Louis felt the innuendo which it contained, and regarded
the speaker with high displeasure.

"Sirrah," he said, "thou art well called Oliver the Devil, who darest thus to sport at once
with thy master and with the blessed Saints. I tell thee, wert thou one grain less necessary
to me, I would have thee hung up on yonder oak before the Castle, as an example to all who
scoff at things holy--Know, thou infidel slave, that mine eyes were no sooner closed; than
the blessed Saint Julian was visible to me, leading a young man whom he presented to me, saying
that his fortune should be to escape the sword, the cord, the river, and to bring good fortune
to the side which he should espouse, and to the adventures in which he should be engaged. I
walked out on the succeeding morning and I met with this youth, whose image I had seen in my
dream. In his own country he hath escaped the sword, amid the massacre of his whole family,
and here within the brief compass of two days, he hath been strangely rescued from drowning
and from the gallows, and hath already, on a particular occasion, as I but lately hinted to
thee, been of the most material service to me. I receive him as sent hither by Saint Julian
to serve me in the most difficult, the most dangerous, and even the most desperate services."

The King, as he thus expressed himself, doffed his hat, and selecting from the numerous little
leaden figures with which the hat band was garnished that which represented Saint Julian, he
placed it on the table, as was often his wont when some peculiar feeling of hope, or perhaps
of remorse, happened to thrill across his mind, and, kneeling down before it, muttered, with
an appearance of profound devotion, "Sancte Juliane, adsis precibus nostris! Ora, ora, pro
nobis! [St. Julian, give heed to our prayers. Plead, plead for us!]"

This was one of those ague fits of superstitious devotion which often seized on Louis in such
extraordinary times and places, that they gave one of the most sagacious monarchs who ever
reigned the appearance of a madman, or at least of one whose mind was shaken by some deep consciousness
of guilt.

While he was thus employed, his favourite looked at him with an expression of sarcastic contempt
which he scarce attempted to disguise. Indeed, it was one of this man's peculiarities, that
in his whole intercourse with his master, he laid aside that fondling, purring affectation
of officiousness and humility which distinguished his conduct to others; and if he still bore
some resemblance to a cat, it was when the animal is on its guard,--watchful, animated, and
alert for sudden exertion. The cause of this change was probably Oliver's consciousness that
his Master was himself too profound a hypocrite not to see through the hypocrisy of others.

"The features of this youth, then, if I may presume to speak," said Oliver, "resemble those
of him whom your dream exhibited?"

"Closely and intimately," said the King, whose imagination, like that of superstitious people
in general, readily imposed upon itself. "I have had his horoscope cast, besides, by Galeotti
Martivalle, and I have plainly learned, through his art and mine own observation, that, in
many respects, this unfriended youth has his destiny under the same constellation with mine."

