"That's because I've been in charge of the inside work. Great dinner, isn't it, Mr. Grayson.
But it's Britton who has made the dinner. He's more fun than a Harlem goat with a hoopskirt.
See him--that's Brit with a red head and blue neck-tie. He's been all winter in Wisconsin looking
after some iron work and has come back jam full of stories." The dignity of Peter's personality
had evidently not impressed the young man, judging from the careless tone with which he addressed
him. "And how are you getting on, Jack--glad you came, ar'n't you?" As he spoke he laid his
hand affectionately on the boy's shoulder. "Didn't I tell you it would be a corker? Out of
sight, isn't it? Everything is out of sight around our office." This last remark was directed
to Peter in the same casual way.

"I should say that every stopper was certainly out," answered Peter in graver tones. He detested
slang and would never understand it. Then again the bearing and air of Jack's friend jarred
on him. "You know, of course, the old couplet--'When the wine flows the--'"

"No, I don't know it," interrupted Minott with an impatient glance. "I'm not much on poetry--but
you can bet your bottom dollar it's flowing all right." Then seeing the shade of disappointment
on Breen's face at the flippant way in which he had returned Peter's courtesies, but without
understanding the cause, he added, tightening his arm around his friend's neck, "Brace up,
Jack, old man, and let yourself go. That's what I'm always telling Jack, Mr. Grayson. He's
got to cut loose from a lot of old-fashioned notions that he brought from home if he wants
to get anywhere around here. I had to."

"What do you want him to give up, Mr. Minott?" Peter had put on his glasses now, and was inspecting
Garry at closer range.

"Oh, I don't know--just get into the swing of things and let her go."

"That is no trouble for you to do," rejoined Jack, looking into his friend's face. "You're
doing something that's worth while."

"Well, aren't you doing something that's worth while? Why you'll be a millionaire if you keep
on. First thing you know the lightning will strike you just as it did your uncle."

Morris leaned forward at the moment and called Minott by name. Instantly the young man's manner
changed to one of respectful attention as he stepped to his Chief's side.

"Yes, Mr. Morris."

"You tell the men up your way to get ready to come to order, or we won't get through in time--it's
getting late."

"All right, sir, I'll take care of 'em. Just as soon as you begin to speak you won't hear a sound."

As Minott moved from Morris's seat another and louder shout arose from the other end of the table:

"Garry, Garry, hurry up!" came the cry. It was evident the young man was very popular.

Peter dropped his glasses from his nose, and turning toward Morris said in a low voice:

"That's a very breezy young man, Holker, the one who has just left us. Got something in him,
has he, besides noise?"

"Yes, considerable. Wants toning down once in a while, but there's no question of his ability
or of his loyalty. He never shirks a duty and never forgets a kindness. Queer combination when
you think of it, Peter. What he will make of himself is another matter."

Peter drew his body back and sent his thoughts out on an investigating tour. He was wondering
what effect the influence of a young man like Minott would have on a young man like Breen.

The waiters at this point brought in huge trays holding bowls of tobacco and long white clay
pipes, followed by even larger trays bearing coffee in little cups. Morris waited a moment
and then rapped for order. Instantly a hush fell upon the noisy room; plates and glasses were
pushed back so as to give the men elbow room; pipes were hurriedly lighted, and each guest
turned his chair so as to face the Chief, who was now on his feet.

As he stood erect, one hand behind his back, the other stretched toward the table in his appeal
for silence, I thought for the hundredth time how kind his fifty years had been to him; how
tightly knit his figure; how well his clothes became him. A handsome, well-groomed man at all
times and in any costume--but never so handsome or so well groomed as in evening dress. Everything
in his make-up helped: the broad, square shoulders, arms held close to his side; flat waist;
incurving back and narrow hips. His well-modelled, aristocratic head, too, seemed to gain increased
distinction when it rose clear from a white shirt-front which served as a kind of marble pedestal
for his sculptured head. There was, moreover, in his every move and look, that quality of transparent
sincerity which always won him friends at sight. "If men's faces are clocks," Peter always
said, "Holker's is fitted with a glass dial. You can not only see what time it is, but you
can see the wheels that move his heart."

He was about to speak now, his eyes roaming the room waiting for the last man to be still.
No fumbling of glasses or rearranging of napkin, but erect, with a certain fearless air that
was as much a part of his nature as was his genius. Beginning in a clear, distinct voice which
reached every ear in the room, he told them first how welcome they were. How great an honor
it was for him to have them so close to him--so close that he could look into all their faces
with one glance; not only those who came from a distance but those of his personal staff, to
whom really the success of the year's work had been due. As for himself, he was, as they knew,
only the lead horse in the team, going ahead to show them the way, while they did the effective
pulling that brought the load to market! Here he slipped his hand in his pocket, took from
it a small box which he laid beside his plate, and continued:

"At these festivals, as you know, and if my memory serves me this is our third, it has always
been our custom to give some slight token of our appreciation to the man who has done most
during the year to further the work of the office. This has always been a difficult thing to
decide, because every one of you, without a single exception, has given the best that is in
you in the general result. Three years ago, you remember, it was awarded to the man who by
common consent had carried to completion, and without a single error, the detailed drawings
of the Museum which was finished last year. I am looking at you, Mr. Downey, and again congratulate
you. Last year it was awarded to Mr. Buttrick for the masterly way with which he put together
the big arches of the Government warehouses--a man whom it would have been my pleasure to congratulate
again to-night had it been possible for him to reach us. To-night I think you will all agree
with me that this small token, not only of my own, but of your 'personal regard and appreciation'"
(here he opened the box and took from it a man's ring set with three jewels), "should be given
to the man who has carried out in so thorough a way the part allotted to him in the Corn Exchange,
and who is none other than Mr. Garrison Minott, who for--"

The rest of the sentence was lost in the uproar.

"Garry! Garry! Garry Minott!" came from all parts of the room. "Bully for Garry! You deserve
it, old man! Three cheers for Garry Minott! Hip... Hip...!"

Morris's voice now dominated the room.

"Come this way, Mr. Minott."

The face of the young superintendent, which had been in a broad laugh all the evening, grew
white and red by turns. Out of pure astonishment he could neither move nor speak.

"All right--stay where you are!" cried Morris laughing. "Pass it up to him, please."

John Breen sprang from his chair with the alertness of a man who had been accustomed to follow
his impulse. In his joy over his friend's good fortune he forgot his embarrassment, forgot
that he was a stranger; forgot that he alone, perhaps, was the only young man in the room whose
life and training had not fitted him for the fullest enjoyment of what was passing around him;
forgot everything, in fact, but that his comrade, his friend, his chum, had won the highest
honors his Chief could bestow.

With cheeks aflame he darted to Morris's chair.

"Let me hand it to him, sir," he cried, all the love for his friend in his eyes, seizing the
ring and plunging toward Garry, the shouts increasing as he neared his side and placed the
prize in his hand. Only then did Minott find his breath and his feet.

"Why, Mr. Morris!--Why, fellows!--Why, there's plenty of men in the office who have done more
than I have to--"

Then he sat down, the ring fast in his hand.

When the applause had subside--the young fellow's modesty had caused a fresh outburst--Morris
again rose in his chair and once more the room grew still.

"Twelve o'clock, gentlemen," he said. "Mr. Downey, you are always our stand-by in starting
the old hymn."

The diners--host and guests alike--rose to their feet as one man. Then to Peter's and my own
intense surprise that most impressive of all chants, the Doxology in long metre, surged out,
gaining in volume and strength as its strains were caught up by the different voices.

With the ending of the grand old hymn--it had been sung with every mark of respect by every
man in the room--John Breen walked back to his chair, leaned toward Peter, and with an apologetic
tone in his voice--he had evidently noticed the unfavorable impression that Garry had made
on his neighbor--said:

"Don't misjudge Garry, Mr. Grayson; he's the kindest hearted fellow in the world when you know
him. He's a little rough sometimes, as you can see, but he doesn't mean it. He thinks his way
of talking and acting is what he calls 'up-to-date.'" Then he added with a sigh: "I wish I
had a ring like that--one that I had earned. I tell you, Mr. Grayson, THAT'S something worth
while."

Peter laid his hand on the young man's shoulder and looked him straight in the face, the same
look in his eyes that a proud father would have given a son who had pleased him. He had heard
with delight the boy's defence of his friend and he had read the boy's mind as he sang the
words of the hymn, his face grave, his whole attitude one of devotion. "You'd think he was
in his father's pew at home," Peter had whispered to me with a smile. It was the latter outburst
though--the one that came with a sigh--that stirred him most.

"And you would really have liked a ring yourself, my lad?"

"Would I like it! Why, Mr. Grayson, I'd rather have had Mr. Morris give me a thing like that
and DESERVED IT, than have all the money you could pile on this table."

One of those sudden smiles which his friends loved so well irradiated Peter's face.

"Keep on the way you're going, my son," he said, seizing the boy's hand, a slight tremble in
his voice, "and you'll get a dozen of them."

"How?" The boy's eyes were wide in wonderment.

"By being yourself. Don't let go of your ideals no matter what Minott or anybody else says.
Let him go his way and do you keep on in yours. Don't... but I can't talk here. Come and see
me. I mean it."

Breen's eyes glistened. "When?"

"To-morrow night, at my rooms. Here's my card. And you, too, Mr. Minott--glad to see both of
you." Garry has just joined them.

"Thanks awfully," answered Minott. "I'm very sorry, Mr. Grayson, but I'm booked for a supper
at the Magnolia. Lot of the fellows want to whoop up this--" and he held the finger bearing
the ring within an inch of Peter's nose. "And they want you, too, Jack."

"No, please let me have him," Peter urged. Minott, I could see, he did not want; Breen he was
determined to have.

"I would love to come, sir, and it's very kind of you to ask me. There's to be a dance at my
uncle's tomorrow night, though I reckon I can be excused. Would you--would you come to see
me instead? I want you to see my father's portrait. It's not you, and yet it's like you when
you turn your head; and there are some other things. I'd like--" Here the boy stopped.

Peter considered for a moment. Calling at the house of a man he did not know, even to continue
the acquaintance of so charming a young fellow as his nephew, was not one of the things punctilious
Mr. Grayson--punctilious as to forms of etiquette--was accustomed to do. The young man read
his thoughts and added quickly:

"Of course I'll do just as you say, but if you only would come we will be entirely alone and
won't see anybody else in the house."

"But couldn't you possibly come to me?" Peter urged. The fact that young Breen had a suite
of rooms so sequestered as to be beyond the reach even of a dance, altered the situation to
some extent, but he was still undecided. "I live all alone when my sister is not with me, and
I, too, have many things I am sure would interest you. Say you'll come now--I shall expect
you, shall I not?"

The boy hesitated. "You may not know exactly what I mean," he said slowly. "Maybe you can't
understand, for everybody about here seems to love you, and you must have lots of friends.
The fact is, I feel out of everything. I get pretty lonely sometimes. Garry, here, never stays
five minutes when he comes to see me, so many people are after him all the time. Please say
you'll come!"

There was a note in the boy's voice that swept away all the older man's scruples.

"Come, my son! Of course I'll come," burst out Peter. "I'll be there at nine o'clock."

As Morris and the others passed between the table and the wall on their way to the cloak-room,
Minott, who had listened to the whole conversation, waited until he thought Peter had gone
ahead, and then, with an impatient gesture, said:

"What the devil, Jack, do you want to waste your time over an old fellow like that for?"

"Oh, Garry, don't--"

"Don't! A bald-headed old pill who ought to have--"

Then the two passed out of hearing.

CHAPTER IV

Breakfast--any meal for that matter--in the high-wainscoted, dark-as-a-pocket dining-room of
the successful Wall Street broker--the senior member of the firm of A. Breen & Co., uncle,
guardian and employer of the fresh, rosy-cheeked lad who sat next to Peter on the night of
Morris's dinner, was never a joyous function.

The room itself, its light shut out by the adjoining extensions, prevented it; so did the glimpse
of hard asphalt covering the scrap of a yard, its four melancholy posts hung about with wire
clothes-lines; and so did the clean-shaven, smug-faced butler, who invariably conducted his
master's guests to their chairs with the movement of an undertaker, and who had never been
known to crack a smile of any kind, long or short, during his five years' sojourn with the
family of Breen.

Not that anybody wanted Parkins to crack one, that is, not his master, and certainly not his
mistress, and most assuredly not his other mistress, Miss Corinne, the daughter of the lady
whom the successful Wall Street broker had made his first and only wife.

All this gloomy atmosphere might have been changed for the better had there been a big, cheery
open wood fire snapping and blazing away, sputtering out its good morning as you entered--and
there would have been if any one of the real inmates had insisted upon it--fought for it, if
necessary; or if in summer one could have seen through the curtained windows a stretch of green
grass with here and there a tree, or one or two twisted vines craning their necks to find out
what was going on inside; or if in any or all seasons, a wholesome, happy-hearted, sunny wife
looking like a bunch of roses just out of a bath, had sat behind the smoking coffee-urn, inquiring
whether one or two lumps of sugar would be enough; or a gladsome daughter who, in a sudden
burst of affection, had thrown her arms around her father's neck and kissed him because she
loved him, and because she wanted his day and her day to begin that way:--if, I say, there
had been all, or one-half, or one-quarter of these things, the atmosphere of this sepulchral
interior might have been improved--but there wasn't.

There was a wife, of course, a woman two years older than Arthur Breen--the relict of a Captain
Barker, an army officer--who had spent her early life in moving from one army post to another
until she had settled down in Washington, where Breen had married her, and where the Scribe
first met her. But this sharer of the fortunes of Breen preferred her breakfast in bed, New
York life having proved even more wearing than military upheavals. And there was also a daughter,
Miss Corinne Barker, Captain and Mrs. Barker's only offspring, who had known nothing of army
posts, except as a child, but who had known everything of Washington life from the time she
was twelve until she was fifteen, and she was now twenty; but that young woman, I regret to
say, also breakfasted in bed, where her maid had special instructions not to disturb her until
my lady's jewelled fingers touched a button within reach of her dainty hand; whereupon another
instalment of buttered rolls and coffee would be served with such accessories of linen, porcelain
and silver as befitted the appetite and station of one so beautiful and so accomplished.

These conditions never ceased to depress Jack. Fresh from a life out of doors, accustomed to
an old-fashioned dining-room--the living room, really, of the family who had cared for him
since his father's death, where not only the sun made free with the open doors and windows,
but the dogs and neighbors as well--the sober formality of this early meal--all of his uncle's
meals, for that matter--sent shivers down his back that chilled him to the bone.

He had looked about him the first morning of his arrival, had noted the heavy carved sideboard
laden with the garish silver; had examined the pictures lining the walls, separated from the
dark background of leather by heavy gold frames; had touched with his fingers the dial of the
solemn bronze clock, flanked by its equally solemn candelabra; had peered between the steel
andirons, bright as carving knives, and into the freshly varnished, spacious chimney up which
no dancing blaze had ever whirled in madcap glee since the mason's trowel had left it and never
would to the end of time,--not as long as the steam heat held out; had watched the crane-like
step of Parkins as he moved about the room--cold, immaculate, impassive; had listened to his
"Yes, sir--thank you, sir, very good, sir," until he wanted to take him by the throat and shake
something spontaneous and human out of him, and as each cheerless feature passed in review
his spirits had sunk lower and lower.

This, then, was what he could expect as long as he lived under his uncle's roof--a period of
time which seemed to him must stretch out into dim futurity. No laughing halloos from passing
neighbors through wide-open windows; no Aunt Hannahs running in with a plate of cakes fresh
from the griddle which would cool too quickly if she waited for that slow-coach of a Tom to
bring them to her young master. No sweep of leaf-covered hills seen through bending branches
laden with blossoms; no stretch of sky or slant of sunshine; only a grim, funereal, artificial
formality, as ungenial and flattening to a boy of his tastes, education and earlier environment
as a State asylum's would have been to a red Indian fresh from the prairie.

On the morning after Morris's dinner (within eight hours really of the time when he had been
so thrilled by the singing of the Doxology), Jack was in his accustomed seat at the small,
adjustable accordion-built table--it could be stretched out to accommodate twenty-four covers--when
his uncle entered this room. Parkins was genuflecting at the time with his--"Cream, sir,--yes,
sir. Devilled kidney, sir? Thank you, sir." (Parkins had been second man with Lord Colchester,
so he told Breen when he hired him.) Jack had about made up his mind to order him out when
a peculiar tone in his uncle's "Good morning" made the boy scan that gentleman's face and figure
the closer.

His uncle was as well dressed as usual, looking as neat and as smart in his dark cut-away coat
with the invariable red carnation in his buttonhole, but the boy's quick eye caught the marks
of a certain wear and tear in the face which neither his bath nor his valet had been able to
obliterate. The thin lips--thin for a man so fat, and which showed, more than any other feature,
something of the desultory firmness of his character--drooped at the corners. The eyes were
half their size, the snap all out of them, the whites lost under the swollen lids. His greeting,
moreover, had lost its customary heartiness.

"You were out late, I hear," he grumbled, dropping into his chair. "I didn't get in myself
until two o'clock and feel like a boiled owl. May have caught a little cold, but I think it
was that champagne of Duckworth's; always gives me a headache. Don't put any sugar and cream
in that coffee, Parkins--want it straight."

"Yes, sir," replied the flunky, moving toward the sideboard.

"And now, Jack, what did you do?" he continued, picking up his napkin. "You and Garry made
a night of it, didn't you? Some kind of an artist's bat, wasn't it?"

"No, sir; Mr. Morris gave a dinner to his clerks, and--"

"Who's Morris?"

"Why, the great architect."

"Oh, that fellow! Yes, I know him, that is, I know who he is. Say the rest. Parkins! didn't
I tell you I didn't want any sugar or cream."

Parkins hadn't offered any. He had only forgotten to remove them from the tray.

Jack kept straight on; these differences between the master and Parkins were of daily occurrence.

"And, Uncle Arthur, I met the most wonderful gentleman I ever saw; he looked just as if he
had stepped out of an old frame, and yet he is down in the Street every day and--"

"What firm?"

"No firm, he is--"

"Curbstone man, then?" Here Breen lifted the cup to his lips and as quickly put it down. "Parkins!"

"Yes, sir," came the monotone.

"Why the devil can't I get my coffee hot?"

"Is it cold, sir?"--slight modulation, but still lifeless.

"IS IT COLD? Of course it's cold! Might have been standing in a morgue. Take that down and
have some fresh coffee sent up. Servants running o'er each other and yet I can't get a--Go
on, Jack! I didn't mean to interrupt, but I'll clean the whole lot of 'em out of here if I
don't get better service."

"No, Uncle Arthur, he isn't a banker--isn't even a broker; he's only a paying teller in a bank,"
continued Jack.

The older man turned his head and a look of surprise swept over his round, fat face.

"Teller in a BANK?" he asked in an altered tone.

"Yes, the most charming, the most courteous old gentleman I have ever met; I haven't seen anybody
like him since I left home, and, just think, he has promised to come and see me to-night."

The drooping lips straightened and a shrewd, searching glance shot from Arthur Breen's eyes.
There was a brain behind this sleepy face--as many of his competitors knew. It was not always
in working order, but when it was the man became another personality.

"Jack--" The voice was now as thin as the drawn lips permitted, with caution in every tone,
"you stop short off. You mustn't cotton to everybody you pick up in New York--it won't do.
Get you into trouble. Don't bring him here; your aunt won't like it. When you get into a hole
with a fellow and can't help yourself, take him to the club. That's one of the things I got
you into the Magnolia for; but don't ever bring 'em here."

"But he's a personal friend of Mr. Morris, and a friend of another friend of Mr. Morris's they
called 'Major.'" It was not the first time he had heard such inhospitable suggestions from
his uncle.

"Oh, yes, I know; they've all got some old retainers hanging on that they give a square meal
to once a year, but don't you get mixed up with 'em."

Parkins had returned by this time and was pouring a fresh cup of coffee.

"Now, Parkins, that's something like--No, I don't want any kidneys--I don't want any toast--I
don't want anything, Parkins--haven't I told you so?"

"Yes, sir; thank you sir."

"Black coffee is the only thing that'll settle this head. What you want to do, Jack, is to
send that old fossil word that you've got another engagement, and... Parkins, is there anything
going on here to-night?"

"Yes, sir; Miss Cocinne is giving a small dance."

"There, Jack--that's it. That'll let you out with a whole skin."

"No, I can't, and I won't, Uncle Arthur," he answered in an indignant tone. "If you knew him
as I do, and had seen him last night, you would--"

"No, I don't want to know him and I don't want to see him. You are all balled up, I see, and
can't work loose, but take him upstairs; don't let your aunt come across him or she'll have
a fit." Here he glanced at the bronze clock. "What!--ten minutes past nine! Parkins, see if
my cab is at the door.... Jack, you ride down with me. I walked when I was your age, and got
up at daylight. Some difference, Jack, isn't there, whether you've got a rich uncle to look
after you or not." This last came with a wink.

It was only one of his pleasantries. He knew he was not rich; not in the accepted sense. He
might be a small star in the myriads forming the Milky-Way of Finance, but there were planets
millions of miles beyond him, whose brilliancy he was sure he could never equal. The fact was
that the money which he had accumulated had been so much greater sum than he had ever hoped
for when he was a boy in a Western State--his father went to Iowa in '49--and the changes in
his finances had come with such lightning rapidity (half a million made on a tip given him
by a friend, followed by other tips more or less profitable) that he loved to pat his pride,
so to speak, in speeches like this.

That he had been swept off his feet by the social and financial rush about him was quite natural.
His wife, whose early life had been one long economy, had ambitions to which there was no limit
and her escape from her former thraldom had been as sudden and as swift as the upward spring
of a loosened balloon. Then again all the money needed to make the ascension successful was
at her disposal. Hence jewels, laces, and clothes; hence elaborate dinners, the talk of the
town: hence teas, receptions, opera parties, week-end parties at their hired country seat on
Long Island; dances for Corinne; dinners for Corinne; birthday parties for Corinne; everything,
in fact, for Corinne, from manicures to pug dogs and hunters.

His two redeeming qualities were his affection for his wife and his respect for his word. He
had no child of his own, and Corinne, though respectful never showed him any affection. He
had sent Jack to a Southern school and college, managing meanwhile the little property his
father had left him, which, with some wild lands in the Cumberland Mountains, practically worthless,
was the boy's whole inheritance, and of late had treated him as if he had been his own son.

As to his own affairs, close as he sailed to the wind in his money transactions--so close sometimes
that the Exchange had more than once overhauled his dealings--it was generally admitted that
when Arthur Breen gave his WORD--a difficult thing often to get--he never broke it. This was
offset by another peculiarity with less beneficial results: When he had once done a man a service
only to find him ungrateful, no amount of apologies or atonement thereafter ever moved him
to forgiveness. Narrow-gauge men are sometimes built that way.

It was to be expected, therefore, considering the quality of Duckworth's champagne and the
impression made on Jack by his uncle's outburst, that the ride down town in the cab was marked
by anything but cheerful conversation between Breen and his nephew, each of whom sat absorbed
in his own reflections. "I didn't mean to be hard on the boy," ruminated Breen, "but if I had
picked up everybody who wanted to know me, as Jack has done, where would I be now?" Then, his
mind still clouded by the night at the club (he had not confined himself entirely to champagne),
he began, as was his custom, to concentrate his attention upon the work of the day--on the
way the market would open; on the remittance a belated customer had promised and about which
he had some doubt; the meeting of the board of directors in the new mining company--"The Great
Mukton Lode," in which he had an interest, and a large one--etc.

Jack looked out of the windows, his eyes taking in the remnants of the autumnal tints in the
Park, now nearly gone, the crowd filling the sidewalks; the lumbering stages and the swifter-moving
horse-cars crammed with eager men anxious to begin the struggle of the day--not with their
hands--that mob had swept past hours before--but with their brains--wits against wits and the
devil take the man who slips and falls.

Nothing of it all interested him. His mind was on the talk at the breakfast table, especially
his uncle's ideas of hospitality, all of which had appalled and disgusted him. With his father
there had always been a welcome for every one, no matter what the position in life, the only
standard being one of breeding and character--and certainly Peter had both. His uncle had helped
him, of course--put him under obligations he could never repay. Yet after all, it was proved
now to him that he was but a guest in the house enjoying only such rights as any other guest
might possess, and with no voice in the welcome--a condition which would never be altered,
until he became independent himself--a possibility which at the moment was too remote to be
considered. Then his mind reverted to his conversation the night before with Mr. Grayson and
with this change of thought his father's portrait--the one that hung in his room--loomed up.
He had the night before turned on the lights--to their fullest--and had scanned the picture
closely, eager to find some trace of Peter in the counterfeit presentment of the man he loved
best, and whose memory was still almost a religion, but except that both Peter and his father
were bald, and that both wore high, old-fashioned collars and neck-cloths, he had been compelled
to admit with a sigh that there was nothing about the portrait on which to base the slightest
claim to resemblance.

"Yet he's like my father, he is, he is," he kept repeating to himself as the cab sped on. "I'll
find out what it is when I know him better. To-night when Mr. Grayson comes I'll study it out,"
and a joyous smile flashed across his features as he thought of the treat in store for him.

When at last the boy reached his office, where, behind the mahogany partition with its pigeon-hole
cut through the glass front he sat every day, he swung back the doors of the safe, took out
his books and papers and made ready for work. He had charge of the check book, and he alone
signed the firm's name outside of the partners. "Rather young," one of them protested, until
he looked into the boy's face, then he gave his consent; something better than years of experience
and discretion are wanted where a scratch of a pen might mean financial ruin.

Breen had preceded him with but a nod to his clerks, and had disappeared into his private office--another
erection of ground glass and mahogany. Here the senior member of the firm shut the door carefully,
and turning his back fished up a tiny key attached to a chain leading to the rear pocket of
his trousers. With this he opened a small closet near his desk--a mere box of a closet--took
from it a squatty-shaped decanter labelled "Rye, 1840," poured out half a glass, emptied it
into his person with one gulp, and with the remark in a low voice to himself that he was now
"copper fastened inside and out"--removed all traces of the incident and took up his morning's
mail.

By this time the circle of chairs facing the huge blackboard in the spacious outer office had
begun to fill up. Some of the customers, before taking their seats, hurried anxiously to the
ticker, chattering away in its glass case; others turned abruptly and left the room without
a word. Now and then a customer would dive into Breen's private room, remain a moment and burst
out again, his face an index of the condition of his bank account.

When the chatter of the ticker had shifted from the London quotations to the opening sales
on the Exchange, a sallow-faced clerk mounted a low step-ladder and swept a scurry of chalk
marks over the huge blackboard, its margin lettered with the initials of the principal stocks.
The appearance of this nimble-fingered young man with his piece of chalk always impressed Jack
as a sort of vaudeville performance. On ordinary days, with the market lifeless, but half of
the orchestra seats would be occupied. In whirl-times, with the ticker spelling ruin, not only
were the chairs full, but standing room only was available in the offices.

Their occupants came from all classes; clerks from up-town dry-goods houses, who had run down
during lunch time to see whether U.P. or Erie, or St. Paul had moved up an eighth, or down
a quarter, since they had devoured the morning papers on their way to town; old speculators
who had spent their lives waiting buzzard-like for some calamity, enabling them to swoop down
and make off with what fragments they could pick up; well-dressed, well-fed club men, who had
had a run of luck and who never carried less than a thousand shares to keep their hands in;
gray-haired novices nervously rolling little wads of paper between their fingers and thumbs--up
every few minutes to listen to the talk of the ticker, too anxious to wait until the sallow-faced
young man with the piece of chalk could make his record on the board. Some of them had gathered
together their last dollar. Two per cent. or one percent, or even one-half of one per cent.
rise or fall was all that stood between them and ruin.

"Very sorry, sir, but you know we told you when you opened the account that you must keep your
margins up," Breen had said to an old man. The old man knew; had known it all night as he lay
awake, afraid to tell his wife of the sword hanging above their heads. Knew it, too, when without
her knowledge he had taken the last dollar of the little nest-egg to make good the deficit
owed Breen & Co. over and above his margins, together with some other things "not negotiable"--not
our kind of collateral but "stuff" that could "lie in the safe until he could make some other
arrangement," the cashier had said with the firm's consent.

Queer safe, that of Breen & Co., and queer things went into it. Most of them were still there.
Jack thought some jeweller had sent part of his stock down for safe-keeping when he first came
across a tiny drawer of which Breen alone kept the key. Each object could tell a story: a pair
of diamond ear-rings surely could, and so could four pearls on a gold chain, and perhaps, too,
a certain small watch, the case set with jewels. One of these days they may be redeemed, or
they may not, depending upon whether the owners can scrape money enough together to pay the
balances owed in cash. But the four pearls on the gold chain are likely to remain there--that
poor fellow went overboard one morning off Nantucket Light, and his secret went with him.

During the six months Jack had stood at his desk new faces had filled the chairs--the talk
had varied; though he felt only the weary monotony of it all. Sometimes there had been hours
of tense excitement, when even his uncle had stood by the ticker, and when every bankable security
in the box had been overhauled and sent post-haste to the bank or trust company. Jack, followed
by the porter with a self-cocking revolver in his outside pocket, had more than once carried
the securities himself, returning to the office on the run with a small scrap of paper good
for half a million or so tucked away in his inside pocket. Then the old monotony had returned
with its dull routine and so had the chatter and talk. "Buy me a hundred." "Yes, let 'em go."
"No, I don't want to risk it." "What's my balance?" "Thought you'd get another eighth for that
stock." "Sold at that figure, anyhow," etc.

Under these conditions life to a boy of Jack's provincial training and temperament seemed narrowed
down to an arm-chair, a black-board, a piece of chalk and a restless little devil sputtering
away in a glass case, whose fiat meant happiness or misery. Only the tongue of the demon was
in evidence. The brain behind it, with its thousand slender nerves quivering with the energy
of the globe, Jack never saw, nor, for that matter, did nine-tenths of the occupants of the
chairs. To them its spoken word was the dictum of fate. Success meant debts paid, a balance
in the bank, houses, horses, even yachts and estates--failure meant obscurity and suffering.
The turn of the roulette wheel or the roll of a cube of ivory they well knew brought the same
results, but these turnings they also knew were attended with a certain loss of prestige. Taking
a flier in the Street was altogether different--great financiers were behind the fluctuations
of values told by the tongue of the ticker, and behind them was the wealth of the Republic
and still in the far distance the power of the American people. Few of them ever looked below
the grease paint, nor did the most discerning ever detect the laugh on the clown's face.

The boy half hidden by the glass screen, through which millions were passed and repassed every
month, caught now and then a glimpse.

Once a faded, white-haired old man had handed Jack a check after banking hours to make good
an account--a man whose face had haunted him for hours. His uncle told him the poor fellow
had "run up solid" against a short interest in a stock that some Croesus was manipulating to
get even with another Croesus who had manipulated HIM, and that the two Croesuses had "buried
the old man alive." The name of the stock Jack had forgotten, but the suffering in the victim's
face had made an indelible impression. In reply to Jack's further inquiry, his uncle had spoken
as if the poor fellow had been wandering about on some unknown highway when the accident happened,
failing to add that he himself had led him through the gate and started him on the road; forgetting,
too, to say that he had collected the toll in margins, a sum which still formed a considerable
portion of Breen & Co.'s bank account. One bit of information which Breen had vouchsafed, while
it did not relieve the gloom of the incident, added a note of courage to the affair:

"He was game, however, all the same, Jack. Had to go down into his wife's stocking, I hear.
Hard hit, but he took it like a man."

CHAPTER V.

While all this was going on downtown under the direction of the business end of the house of
Breen, equally interesting events were taking place uptown under the guidance of its social
head. Strict orders had been given by Mrs. Breen the night before that certain dustings and
arrangings of furniture should take place, the spacious stairs swept, and the hectic hired
palms in their great china pots watered. I say "the night before," because especial stress
was laid upon the fact that on no account whatever were either Mrs. Breen or her daughter Corinne
to be disturbed until noon--neither of them having retired until a late hour the night before.

So strictly were these orders carried out that all that did reach the younger woman's ear--and
this was not until long after mid-day--was a scrap of news which crept upstairs from the breakfast
table via Parkins wireless, was caught by Corinne's maid and delivered in manifold with that
young lady's coffee and buttered rolls. This when deciphered meant that Jack was not to be
at the dance that evening--he having determined instead to spend his time up stairs with a
disreputable old fellow whom he had picked up somewhere at a supper the preceding night.

Corinne thought over the announcement for a moment, gazed into the egg-shell cup that Hortense
was filling from the tiny silver coffee-pot, and a troubled expression crossed her face. "What
has come over Jack?" she asked herself. "I never knew him to do anything like this before.
Is he angry, I wonder, because I danced with Garry the other night? It WAS his dance, but I
didn't think he would care. He has always done everything to please me--until now." Perhaps
the boy was about to slip the slight collar he had worn in her service--one buckled on by him
willingly because--though she had not known it--he was a guest in the house. Heretofore she
said to herself Jack had been her willing slave, a feather in her cap--going everywhere with
her; half the girls were convinced he was in love with her--a theory which she had encouraged.
What would they say now? This prospect so disturbed the young woman that she again touched
the button, and again Hortense glided in.

"Hortense, tell Parkins to let me know the moment Mr. John comes in--and get me my blue tea-gown;
I sha'n't go out to-day." This done she sank back on her pillows.

She was a slight little body, this Corinne--blue-eyed, fair-haired, with a saucy face and upturned
nose. Jack thought when he first saw her that she looked like a wren with its tiny bill in
the air--and Jack was not far out of the way. And yet she was a very methodical, level-headed
little wren, with several positive convictions which dominated her life--one of them being
that everybody about her ought to do, not as they, but as she, pleased. She had begun, and
with pronounced success, on her mother as far back as she could remember, and had then tried
her hand on her stepfather until it became evident that as her mother controlled that gentleman
it was a waste of time to experiment further. All of which was a saving of stones without the
loss of any birds.

Where she failed--and she certainly had failed, was with Jack, who though punctiliously polite
was elusive and--never quite subdued. Yet the discovery made, she neither pouted nor lost her
temper, but merely bided her time. Sooner or later, she knew, of course, this boy, who had
seen nothing of city life and who was evidently dazed with all the magnificence of the stately
home overlooking the Park, would find his happiest resting-place beneath the soft plumage of
her little wing. And if by any chance he should fall in love with her--and what more natural;
did not everybody fall in love with her?--would it not be wiser to let him think she returned
it, especially if she saw any disposition on the young man's part to thwart her undisputed
sway of the household?

For months she had played her little game, yet to her amazement none of the things she had
anticipated had happened. Jack had treated her as he would any other young woman of his acquaintance--always
with courtesy--always doing everything to oblige her, but never yielding to her sway. He would
laugh sometimes at her pretensions, just as he would have laughed at similar self-assertiveness
on the part of any one else with whom he must necessarily be thrown, but never by thought,
word or deed had he ever given my Lady Wren the faintest suspicion that he considered her more
beautiful, better dressed, or more entertaining, either in song, chirp, flight or plumage,
than the flock of other birds about her. Indeed, the Scribe knows it to be a fact that if Jack's
innate politeness had not forbidden, he would many times have told her truths, some of them
mighty unpleasant ones, to which her ears had been strangers since her school-girl days.

This unstudied treatment, strange to say--the result really, of the boy's indifference--had
of late absorbed her. What she could not have she generally longed for, and there was not the
slightest question up to the present moment that Jack was still afield.

Again the girl pressed the button of the cord within reach of her hand, and for the third time
Hortense entered.

"Have you told Parkins I want to know the very instant Mr. John comes in?"

"Yes, miss."

"And, Hortense, did you understand that Mr. John was to go out to meet the gentleman, or was
the gentleman to come to his rooms?"

"To his rooms, I think, miss."

 She was wearing her blue tea-gown, stretched out on the cushions
of one of the big divans in the silent drawing-room, when she heard
Jack's night-key touch the lock. Springing to her feet she ran toward
him.

"Why, Jack, what's this I hear about your not coming to my dance? It isn't true, is it?" She
was close to him now, her little head cocked on one side, her thin, silken draperies dripping
about her slender figure.

"Who told you?"

"Parkins told Hortense."

"Leaky Parkins?" laughed Jack, tossing his hat on the hall table.

"But you are coming, aren't you, Jack? Please do!"

"Not to-night; you don't need me, Corinne." His voice told her at once that not only was the
leash gone but that the collar was off as well.

"Yes, but I do."

"Then please excuse me, for I have an old gentleman coming to pay me a visit. The finest old
gentleman, by the way, you ever saw! A regular thoroughbred, Corinne--who looks like a magnificent
portrait!" he added in his effort to interest her.

"But let him come some other time," she coaxed, holding the lapel of his coat, her eyes searching
his.

"What, turn to the wall a magnificent old portrait!" This came with a mock grimace, his body
bent forward, his eyes brimming with laughter.

"Be serious, Jack, and tell me if you think it very nice in you to stay upstairs in your den
when I am giving a dance? Everybody will know you are at home, and we haven't enough men as
it is. Garry can't come, he writes me. He has to dine with some men at the club."

"I really AM sorry, Corinne, but I can't this time." Jack had hold of her hand now; for a brief
moment he was sorry he had not postponed Peter's visit until the next day; he hated to cause
any woman a disappointment. "If it was anybody else I might send him word to call another night,
but you don't know Mr. Grayson; he isn't the kind of a man you can treat like that. He does
me a great honor to come, anyhow. Just think of his coming to see a boy like me--and he so--"

"Well, bring him downstairs, then." Her eyes began to flash; she had tried all the arts she
knew--they were not many--but they had won heretofore. "Mother will take care of him. A good
many of the girls' fathers come for them."

"Bring him downstairs to a dance!" Jack answered with a merry laugh. "He isn't that kind of
an old gentleman, either. Why, Corinne, you ought to see him! You might as well ask old Bishop
Gooley to lead the german."

Jack's foot was now ready to mount the lower step of the stairs. Corinne bit her lip.

"You never do anything to please me!" she snapped back. She knew she was fibbing, but something
must be done to check this new form of independence--and then, now that Garry couldn't come,
she really needed him. "You don't want to come, that's it--" She facing him now, her little
nose high in the air, her cheeks flaming with anger.

"You must not say that, Corinne," he answered in a slightly indignant tone.

Corinne drew herself up to her full height--toes included; not very high, but all she could
do--and said in a voice pitched to a high key, her finger within a few inches of his nose:

"It's true, and I will say it!"

The rustle of silk was heard overhead, and a plump, tightly laced woman in voluminous furs,
her head crowned by a picture hat piled high with plumes, was making her way down the stairs.
Jack looked up and waved his hand to his aunt, and then stood at mock attention, like a corporal
on guard, one hand raised to salute her as she passed. The boy, with the thought of Peter coming,
was very happy this afternoon.

"What are you two quarrelling about?" came the voice. Rather a soft voice with a thread of
laziness running through it.

"Jack's too mean for anything, mother. He knows we haven't men enough without him for a cotillion,
now that Garry has dropped out, and he's been just stupid enough to invite some old man to
come and see him this evening."

The furs and picture hat swept down and on, Jack standing at attention, hands clasping an imaginary
musket his face drawn down to its severest lines, his cheeks puffed out to make him look the
more solemn. When the wren got "real mad" he would often say she was the funniest thing alive.

"I'm a pig, I know, aunty" (here Jack completed his salute with a great flourish), "but Corinne
does not really want me, and she knows it. She only wants to have her own way. They don't dance
cotillions when they come here--at least they didn't last time, and I don't believe they will
to-night. They sit around with each other in the corners and waltz with the fellows they've
picked out--and it's all arranged between them, and has been for a week--ever since they heard
Corinne was going to give a dance." The boy spoke with earnestness and a certain tone of conviction
in his voice, although his face was still radiant.

"Well, can't you sit around, too, Jack?" remarked his aunt, pausing in her onward movement
for an instant. "I'm sure there will be some lovely girls."

"Yes, but they don't want me. I've tried it too often, aunty--they've all got their own set."

"It's because you don't want to be polite to any of them," snapped Corinne with a twist of
her body, so as to face him again.

"Now, Corinne, that isn't fair; I am never impolite to anybody in this house, but I'm tired of--"

"Well, Garry isn't tired." This last shot was fired at random.

Again the aunt poured oil: "Come, children, come! Don't let's talk any more about it. If Jack
has made an engagement it can't be helped, I suppose, but don't spoil your party, my dear.
Find Parkins, Jack, and send him to me.... Ah, Parkins--if any one calls say I'll be out until
six o'clock."

"Yes, my Lady." Parkins knew on which side his bread was buttered. She had reproved him at
first, but his excuse was that she was so like his former mistress, Lady Colchester, that he
sometimes forgot himself.

And again "my Lady" swept on, this time out of the door and into her waiting carriage.

CHAPTER VI

Jack's impatience increased as the hour for Peter's visit approached. Quarter of nine found
him leaning over the banisters outside his small suite of rooms, peering down between the hand-rails
watching the top of every head that crossed the spacious hall three flights below--he dare
not go down to welcome his guest, fearing some of the girls, many of whom had already arrived,
would know he was in the house. Fifteen minutes later the flash of a bald head, glistening
in the glare of the lower hall lantern, told him that the finest old gentleman in the world
had arrived, and on the very minute. Parkins's special instructions, repeated for the third
time, were to bring Mr. Peter Grayson--it was wonderful what an impressive note was in the
boy's voice when he rolled out the syllables--up at once, surtout, straight-brimmed hat, overshoes
(if he wore any), umbrella and all, and the four foot-falls--two cat-like and wabbly, as befitted
the obsequious flunky, and two firm and decided, as befitted a grenadier crossing a bridge--could
now be heard mounting the stairs.

"So here you are!" cried Peter, holding out both hands to the overjoyed boy--"'way up near
the sky. One flight less than my own. Let me get my breath, my boy, before I say another word.
No, don't worry, only Anno Domini--you'll come to it some day. How delightfully you are settled!"

They had entered the cosey sitting-room and Jack was helping with his coat; Parkins, with his
nose in the air (he had heard his master's criticism), having already placed his hat on a side
table and the umbrella in the corner.

"Where will you sit--in the big chair by the fire or in this long straw one?" cried the boy,
Peter's coat still in his hand.

"Nowhere yet; let me look around a little." One of Peter's tests of a man was the things he
lived with. "Ah! books?" and he peered at a row on the mantel. "Macaulay, I see, and here's
Poe: Good, very good--why, certainly it is--Where did you get this Morland?" and again Peter's
glasses went up. "Through that door is your bedroom--yes, and the bath. Very charming, I must
say. You ought to live very happily here; few young fellows I know have half your comforts."

Jack had interrupted him to say that the Morland print was one that he had brought from his
father's home, and that the books had come from the same source, but Peter kept on in his tour
around the room. Suddenly he stopped and looked steadily at a portrait over the mantel.

"Yes--your father--"

"You knew!" cried Jack.

"Knew! How could any one make a mistake? Fine head. About fifty I should say. No question about
his firmness or his kindness. Yes--fine head--and a gentleman, that is best of all. When you
come to marry always hunt up the grandfather--saves such a lot of trouble in after life," and
one of Peter's infectious laughs filled the room.

"Do you think he looks anything like Uncle Arthur? You have seen him, I think you said."

Peter scanned the portrait. "Not a trace. That may also be a question of grandfathers--" and
another laugh rippled out. "But just be thankful you bear his name. It isn't always necessary
to have a long line of gentlemen behind you, and if you haven't any, or can't trace them, a
man, if he has pluck and grit, can get along without them; but it's very comforting to know
they once existed. Now let me sit down and listen to you," added Peter, whose random talk had
been inspired by the look of boyish embarrassment on Jack's face. He had purposely struck many
notes in order to see which one would echo in the lad's heart, so that his host might find
himself, just as he had done when Jack with generous impulse had sprang from his chair to carry
Minott the ring.

The two seated themselves--Peter in the easy chair and Jack opposite. The boy's eyes roamed
from the portrait, with its round, grave face, to Peter's head resting on the cushioned back,
illumined by the light of the lamp, throwing into relief the clear-cut lips, little gray side-whiskers
and the tightly drawn skin covering his scalp, smooth as polished ivory.

"Am I like him?" asked Peter. He had caught the boy's glances and had read his thoughts.

"No--and yes. I can't see it in the portrait, but I do in the way you move your hands and in
the way you bow. I keep thinking of him when I am with you. It may, as you say, be a good thing
to have a gentleman for a father, sir, but it is a dreadful thing, all the same, to lose him
just as you need him most. I wouldn't hate so many of the things about me if I had him to go
to now and then."

"Tell me about him and your early life," cried Peter, crossing one leg over the other. He knew
the key had been struck; the boy might now play on as he chose.

"There is very little to tell. I lived in the old home with an aunt after my father's death.
And went to school and then to college at Hagerstown--quite a small college--where uncle looked
after me--he paid the expenses really--and then I was clerk in a law office for a while, and
at my aunt's death about a year ago the old place was sold and I had no home, and Uncle Arthur
sent for me to come here."

"Very decent in him, and you should never forget him for it," and again Peter's eyes roamed
around the perfectly appointed room.

"I know it, sir, and at first the very newness and strangeness of everything delighted me.
Then I began to meet the people. They were so different from those in my part of the country,
especially the young fellows--Garry is not so bad, because he really loves his work and is
bound to succeed--everybody says he has a genius for architecture--but the others--and the
way they treat the young girls, and what is more unaccountable to me is the way the young girls
put up with it."

Peter had settled himself deeper in his chair, his eyes shaded with one hand and looked intently
at the boy.

"Uncle Arthur is kind to me, but the life smothers me. I can't breathe sometimes. Nothing my
father taught me is considered worth while here. People care for other things."

"What, for instance?" Peter's hand never moved, nor did his body.

"Why stocks and bonds and money, for instance," laughed Jack, beginning to be annoyed at his
own tirade--half ashamed of it in fact. "Stocks are good enough in their way, but you don't
want to live with them from ten o'clock in the morning till four o'clock in the afternoon,
and then hear nothing else talked about until you go to bed. That's why that dinner last night
made such an impression on me. Nobody said money once."

"But every one of those men had his own hobby--"

"Yes, but in my uncle's world they all ride one and the same horse. I don't want to be a pessimist,
Mr. Grayson, and I want you to set me straight if I am wrong, but Mr. Morris and every one
of those men about him were the first men I've seen in New York who appear to me to be doing
the things that will live after them. What are we doing down-town? Gambling the most of us."

"But your life here isn't confined to your uncle and his stock-gambling friends. Surely these
lovely young girls--two of them came in with me--" and Peter smiled, "must make your life delightful."

Jack's eyes sought the floor, then he answered slowly:

"I hope you won't think me a cad, but--No, I'm not going to say a word about them, only I can't
get accustomed to them and there's no use of my saying that I can. I couldn't treat any girl
the way they are treated here. And I tell you another thing--none of the young girls whom I
know at home would treat me as these girls treat the men they know. I'm queer, I guess, but
I might as well make a clean breast of it all. I am an ingrate, perhaps, but I can't help thinking
that the old life at home was the best. We loved our friends, and they were welcome at our
table any hour, day or night. We had plenty of time for everything; we lived out of doors or
in doors, just as we pleased, and we dressed to suit ourselves, and nobody criticised. Why,
if I drop into the Magnolia on my way up-town and forget to wear a derby hat with a sack coat,
or a black tie with a dinner-jacket, everybody winks and nudges his neighbor. Did you ever
hear of such nonsense in your life?"

The boy paused as if the memory of some incident in which he was ridiculed was alive in his
mind. Peter's eyes were still fixed on his face.

"Go on--I'm listening; and what else hurts you? Pour it all out. That's what I came for. You
said last night nobody would listen--I will."

"Well, then, I hate the sham of it all; the silly social distinctions; the fits and starts
of hospitality; the dinners given for show. Nothing else going on between times; even the music
is hired. I want to hear music that bubbles out--old Hannah singing in the kitchen, and Tom,
my father's old butler, whistling to himself--and the dogs barking, and the birds singing outside.
I'm ashamed of myself making comparisons, but that was the kind of life I loved, because there
was sincerity in it."

"No work?" There was a note of sly merriment in the inquiry, but Jack never caught it.

"Not much. My father was Judge and spent part of the time holding court, and his work never
lasted but a few hours a day, and when I wanted to go fishing or shooting, or riding with the
girls, Mr. Larkin always let me off. And I had plenty of time to read--and for that matter
I do here, if I lock myself up in this room. That low library over there is full of my father's
books."

Again Peter's voice had a tinge of merriment in it.

"And who supported the family?" he asked in a lower voice.

"My father."

"And who supported him?"

The question brought Jack to a full stop. He had been running on, pouring out his heart for
the first time since his sojourn in New York, and to a listener whom he knew he could trust.

"Why--his salary, of course," answered Jack in astonishment, after a pause.

"Anything else?"

"Yes--the farm."

"And who worked that?"

"My father's negroes--some of them his former slaves."

"And have you any money of your own--anything your father left you?"

"Only enough to pay taxes on some wild lands up in Cumberland County, and which I'm going to
hold on to for his sake."

Peter dropped his shading fingers, lifted his body from the depths of the easy chair and leaned
forward so that the light fell full on his face. He had all the information he wanted now.

"And now let me tell you my story, my lad. It is a very short one. I had the same sort of a
home, but no father--none that I remember--and no mother, they both died before my sister Felicia
and I were grown up. At twelve I left school; at fifteen I worked in a country store--up at
daylight and to bed at midnight, often. From twenty to twenty-five I was entry clerk in a hardware
store; then book-keeper; then cashier in a wagon factory; then clerk in a village bank--then
book-keeper again in my present bank, and there I have been ever since. My only advantages
were a good constitution and the fact that I came of gentle people. Here we are both alike--you
at twenty--how old?--twenty two?... Well, make it twenty-two.... You at twenty-two and I at
twenty-two seem to have started out in life with the same natural advantages, so far as years
and money go, but with this difference--Shall I tell you what it is?"

"Yes."

"That I worked and loved it, and love it still, and that you are lazy and love your ease. Don't
be offended--" Here Peter laid his hand on the boy's knee. He waited an instant, and not getting
any reply, kept on: "What you want to do is to go to work. It wouldn't have been honorable
in you to let your father support you after you were old enough to earn your own living, and
it isn't honorable in you, with your present opinions, to live on your uncle's bounty, and
to be discontented and rebellious at that, for that's about what it all amounts to. You certainly
couldn't pay for these comforts outside of this house on what Breen & Co. can afford to pay
you. Half of your mental unrest, my lad, is due to the fact that you do not know the joy and
comfort to be got out of plain, common, unadulterated work."

"I'll do anything that is not menial."

"What do you mean by 'menial'?"

"Well, working like a day-laborer."

"Most men who have succeeded have first worked with their hands."

"Not my uncle."

"No, not your uncle--he's an exception--one among a million, and then again he isn't through."

"But he's worth two million, they say."

"Yes, but he never earned it, and he never worked for it, and he doesn't now. Do you want to
follow in his footsteps?"

"No--not with all his money." This came in a decided tone. "But surely you wouldn't want me
to work with my hands, would you?"

"I certainly should, if necessary."

Jack looked at him, and a shade of disappointment crossed his face.

"But I COULDN'T do anything menial."

"There isn't anything menial in any kind of work from cleaning a stable up! The menial things
are the evasions of work--tricks by which men are cheated out of their just dues."

"Stock gambling?"

"Yes--sometimes, when the truth is withheld."

"That's what I think; that's what I meant last night when I told you about the faro-bank. I
laughed over it, and yet I can't see much difference, although I have never seen one."

"So I understood, but you were wrong about it. Your uncle bears a very good name in the Street.
He is not as much to blame as the system. Perhaps some day the firm will become real bankers,
than which there is no more honorable calling."

"But is it wrong to want to fish and shoot and have time to read."

"No, it is wrong not to do it when you have the time and the money. I like that side of your
nature. My own theory is that every man should in the twenty-four hours of the day devote eight
to work, eight to sleep and eight to play. But this can only be done when the money to support
the whole twenty-four hours is in sight, either in wages, or salary, or invested securities.
More money than this--that is the surplusage that men lock up in their tin boxes, is a curse.
But with that you have nothing to do--not yet, anyhow. Now, if I catch your meaning, your idea
is to go back to your life at home. In other words you want to live the last end of your life
first--and without earning the right to it. And because you cannot do this you give yourself
up to criticising everything about you. Getting only at the faults and missing all the finer
things in life. If you would permit me to advise you--" he still had his hand on the lad's
knee, searching the soft brown eyes--"I would give up finding fault and first try to better
things, and I would begin right here where you are. Some of the great banking houses which
keep the pendulum of the world swinging true have grown to importance through just such young
men as yourself, who were honest and had high ideals and who so impressed their own personalities
upon everybody about them--customers and employers--that the tone of the concern was raised
at once and with it came a world-wide success. I have been thirty years on the Street and have
watched the rise of half the firms about me, and in every single instance some one of the younger
men--boys, many of them--has pulled the concern up and out of a quagmire and stood it on its
feet. And the reverse is true: half the downfalls have come from those same juniors, who thought
they knew some short road to success, which half the time was across disreputable back lots.
Why not give up complaining and see what better things you can do? I'm not quite satisfied
about your having stayed upstairs even to receive me. Your aunt loves society and the daughter--what
did you say her name was--Corinne? Yes, Miss Corinne being young, loves to have a good time.
Listen! do you hear?--there goes another waltz. Now, as long as you do live here, why not join
in it too and help out the best you can?--and if you have anything of your own to offer in
the way of good cheer, or thoughtfulness, or kindness, or whatever you do have which they lack--or
rather what you think they lack--wouldn't it be wiser--wouldn't it--if you will permit me,
my lad--be a little BETTER BRED to contribute something of your own excellence to the festivity?"

It was now Jack's turn to lean back in his chair and cover his face, but with two ashamed hands.
Not since his father's death had any one talked to him like this--never with so much tenderness
and truth and with every word meant for his good. All his selfrighteousness, his silly conceit
and vainglory stood out before him. What an ass he had been. What a coxcomb. What a boor, really.

"What would you have me do?" he asked, a tone of complete surrender in his voice. The portrait
and Peter were one and the same! His father had come to life.

"I don't know yet. We'll think about that another time, but we won't do it now. I ought to
be ashamed of myself for having spoiled your evening by such serious talk (he wasn't ashamed--he
had come for that very purpose). Now show me some of your books and tell me what you read,
and what you love best."

He was out of the chair before he ceased speaking, his heels striking the floor, bustling about
in his prompt, exact manner, examining the few curios and keepsakes on the mantel and tables,
running his eyes over the rows of bindings lining the small bookcase; his hand on Jack's shoulder
whenever the boy opened some favorite author to hunt for a passage to read aloud to Peter,
listening with delight, whether the quotation was old or new to him.

Jack, suddenly remembering that his guest was standing, tried to lead him back to his seat
by the fire, but Peter would have none of it.

"No--too late. Why, bless me, it's after eleven o'clock! Hear the music--they are still at
it. Now I'm going to insist that you go down and have a turn around the room yourself; there
were such a lot of pretty girls when I came in."

"Too late for that, too," laughed Jack, merry once more. "Corinne wouldn't speak to me if I
showed my face now, and then there will be plenty more dances which I can go to, and so make
it all up with her. I'm not yet as sorry as I ought to be about this dance. Your being here
has been such a delight. May I--may--I come and see you some time?"

"That's just what you will do, and right away. Just as soon as my dear sister Felicia comes
down, and she'll be here very soon. I'll send for you, never fear. Yes, the right sleeve first,
and now my hat and umbrella. Ah, here they are. Now, good night, my boy, and thank you for
letting me come."

"You know I dare not go down with you," explained Jack with a smile.

"Oh, yes--I know--I know. Good night--" and the sharp, quick tread of the old man grew fainter
and fainter as he descended the stairs.

Jack waited, craning his head, until he caught a glimpse of the glistening head as it passed
once more under the lantern, then he went into his room and shut the door.

Had he followed behind his guest he would have witnessed a little comedy which would have gone
far in wiping clean all trace of his uncle's disparaging remarks of the morning. He would have
enjoyed, too, Parkins's amazement. As the Receiving Teller of the Exeter Bank reached the hall
floor the President of the Clearing House--the most distinguished man in the Street and one
to whom Breen kotowed with genuflections equalling those of Parkins--accompanied by his daughter
and followed by the senior partner of Breen & Co., were making their way to the front door.
The second man in the chocolate livery with the potato-bug waistcoat had brought the Magnate's
coat and hat, and Parkins stood with his hand on the door-knob. Then, to the consternation
of both master and servant, the great man darted forward and seized Peter's hand.

"Why, my dear Mr. Grayson! This is indeed a pleasure. I didn't see you--were you inside?"

"No--I've been upstairs with young Mr. Breen," replied Peter, with a comprehensive bow to Host,
Magnate and Magnate's daughter. Then, with the grace and dignity of an ambassador quitting
a salon, he passed out into the night.

Breen found his breath first: "And you know him?"

"Know him!" cried the Magnate--"of course I know him! One of the most delightful men in New
York; and I'm glad that you do--you're luckier than I--try as I may I can hardly ever get him
inside my house."

I was sitting up for the old fellow when he entered his cosey red room and dropped into a chair
before the fire. I had seen the impression the young man had made upon him at the dinner and
was anxious to learn the result of his visit. I had studied the boy somewhat myself, noting
his bright smile, clear, open face without a trace of guile, and the enthusiasm that took possession
of him when his friend won the prize That he was outside the class of young men about him I
could see from a certain timidity of glance and gesture--as if he wanted to be kept in the
background. Would the old fellow, I wondered, burden his soul with still another charge?

Peter was laughing when he entered; he had laughed all the way down-town, he told me. What
particularly delighted him--and here he related the Portman incident--was the change in Breen's
face when old Portman grasped his hand so cordially.

"Made of pinchbeck, my dear Major, both of them, and yet how genuine it looks on the surface,
and what a lot of it is in circulation. Quite as good as the real thing if you don't know the
difference," and again he laughed heartily.

"And the boy," I asked, "was he disappointing?"

"Young Breen?--not a bit of it. He's like all the young fellows who come up here from the South--especially
the country districts--and he's from western Maryland, he says. Got queer ideas about work
and what a gentleman should do to earn his living--same old talk. Hot-house plants most of
them--never amount to anything, really, until they are pruned and set out in the cold."

"Got any sense?" I ventured.

"No, not much--not yet--but he's got temperament and refinement and a ten commandments' code
of morals."

"Rather rare, isn't it?" I asked.

"Yes--perhaps so."

"And I suppose you are going to take him up and do for him, like the others."

Peter picked up the poker and made a jab at the fire; then he answered slowly:

"Well, Major, I can't tell yet--not positively. But he's certainly worth saving."

CHAPTER VII

With the closing of the front door upon the finest Old Gentleman in the World, a marked change
took place in the mental mechanism of several of our most important characters. The head of
the firm of Breen & Co. was so taken aback that for the moment that shrewdest of financiers
was undecided as to whether he or Parkins should rush out into the night after the departing
visitor and bring him back, and open the best in the cellar. "Send a man out of my house,"
he said to himself, "whom Portman couldn't get to his table except at rare intervals! Well,
that's one on me!"

The lid that covered the upper half of Parkins's intelligence also received a jolt; it was
a coal-hole lid that covered emptiness, but now and then admitted the light.

"Might 'ave known from the clothes 'e wore 'e was no common PUR-son," he said to himself. "To
tell you the truth--" this to the second man in the potato-bug waistcoat, when they were dividing
between them the bottle of "Extra Dry" three-quarters full, that Parkins had smuggled into
the pantry with the empty bottles ("Dead Men," Breen called them)--"to tell you the truth,
Frederick, when I took 'is 'at and coat hupstairs 'e give me a real start 'e looked that respectable"

As to Jack, not only his mind but his heart were in a whirl.

Half the night he lay awake wondering what he could do to follow Peter's advice while preserving
his own ideals. He had quite forgotten that part of the older man's counsel which referred
to the dignity of work, even of that work which might be considered as menial. If the truth
must be told, it was his vanity alone which had been touched by the suggestion that in him
might lay the possibility of reforming certain conditions around him. He was willing, even
anxious, to begin on Breen & Co., subjecting his uncle, if need be, to a vigorous overhauling.
Nothing he felt could daunt him in his present militant state, upheld, as he felt that he was,
by the approval of Peter. Not a very rational state of mind, the Scribe must confess, and only
to be accounted for by the fact that Peter's talk, instead of clearing Jack's mind of old doubts,
had really clouded it the more--quite as a bottle of mixture when shaken sends its insoluble
particles whirling throughout the whole.

It was not until the following morning, indeed, that the sediment began to settle, and some
of the sanity of Peter's wholesome prescription to produce a clarifying effect. As long as
he, Jack, lived upon his uncle's bounty--and that was really what it amounted it--he must at
least try to contribute his own quota of good cheer and courtesy. This was what Peter had done
him the honor to advise, and he must begin at once if he wanted to show his appreciation of
the courtesy.

His uncle opened the way:

"Why, I didn't know until I saw him go out that he was a friend of Mr. Portman's," he said
as he sipped his coffee.

"Neither did I. But does it make any difference?" answered Jack, flipping off the top of his egg.

"Well I should think so--about ninety-nine and nine-tenths percent," replied the older man
emphatically. "Let's invite him to dinner, Jack. Maybe he'll come to one I'm giving next week
and--"

"I'll ask him--that is... perhaps, though, you might write him a note, uncle, and--"

"Of course," interrupted Breen, ignoring the suggestion, "when I wanted you to take him to
the club I didn't know who he was."

"Of course you did not," echoed Jack, suppressing a smile.

"The club! No, not by a damned sight!" exclaimed the head of the house of Breen. As this latter
observation was addressed to the circumambient air, and not immediately to Jack, it elicited
no response. Although slightly profane, Jack was clever enough to read in its tones not only
ample apology for previous criticisms but a sort of prospective reparation, whereupon our generous
young gentleman forgave his uncle at once, and thought that from this on he might like him
the better.

Even Parkins came in for a share of Jack's most gracious intentions, and though he was as silent
as an automaton playing a game of chess, a slight crack was visible in the veneer of his face
when Jack thanked him for having brought Mr. Grayson--same reverential pronunciation--upstairs
himself instead of allowing Frederick or one of the maid-servants to perform that service.

As for his apologies to Corinne and his aunt for having remained in his room after Mr. Grayson's
departure, instead of taking part in the last hours of the dance--one o'clock was the exact
hour--these were reserved until those ladies should appear at dinner, when they were made with
so penitential a ring in his voice that his aunt at once jumped to the conclusion that he must
have been bored to death by the old fellow, while Corinne hugged herself in the belief that
perhaps after all Jack was renewing his interest in her; a delusion which took such possession
of her small head that she finally determined to send Garry a note begging him to come to her
at once, on business of the UTMOST IMPORTANCE; two strings being better than one, especially
when they were to be played each against the other.

As to the uplifting of the house of Breen & Co., and the possibility of so small a tail as
himself being able to wag so large a dog as his uncle and his partners, that seemed now to
be so chimerical an undertaking that he laughed when he thought of it.

This urbanity of mood was still with him when some days later he dropped into the Magnolia
Club on his way home, his purpose being to find Garry and to hear about the supper which his
club friends had given him to celebrate his winning of the Morris ring.

Little Biffton was keeping watch when Jack swung in with that free stride of his that showed
more than anything else his muscular body and the way he had taken care of and improved it.
No dumb-bells or clubs for fifteen minutes in the morning--but astride a horse, his thighs
gripping a bare-back, roaming the hills day after day--the kind of outdoor experience that
hardens a man all over without specializing his biceps or his running gear. Little Biff never
had any swing to his gait--none that his fellows ever noticed. Biff went in for repose--sometimes
hours at a time. Given a club chair, a package of cigarettes and some one to talk to him and
Biff could be happy a whole afternoon.

"Ah, Breen, old man! Come to anchor." Here he moved back a chair an inch or two with his foot,
and pushed his silver cigarette-case toward the newcomer.

"Thank you," replied Jack. "I've just dropped in to look for Garry Minott. Has he been in?"

Biff was the bulletin-board of the Magnolia club. As he roomed upstairs, he could be found
here at any hour of the day or night.

Biff did not reply at once; there was no use in hurrying--not about anything. Besides, the
connection between Biff's ears and his brain was never very good. One had to ring him up several
times before he answered.

Jack waited for an instant, and finding that the message was delayed in transmission, helped
himself to one of Biff's "Specials"--bearing in gold letters his name "Brent Biffton" in full
on the rice paper--dropped into the proffered chair and repeated the question:

"Have you seen Garry?"

"Yes--upstairs. Got a deck in the little room. Been there all afternoon. Might go up and butt
in. Touch that bell before you go and say what."

"No--I won't drink anything, if you don't mind. You heard about Garry's winning the prize?"

"No." Biffton hadn't moved since he had elongated his foot in search of Jack's chair.

"Why Garry got first prize in his office. I went with him to the supper; he's with Holker Morris,
you know."

"Yes. Rather nice. Yes, I did hear. The fellows blew him off upstairs. Kept it up till the
steward shut 'em out. Awfully clever fellow, Minott. My Governor wanted me to do something
in architecture, but it takes such a lot of time... Funny how a fellow will dress himself."
Biffton's sleepy eyes were sweeping the Avenue. "Pendergast just passed wearing white spats--A
month too late for spats--ought to know better. Touch the bell, Breen, and say what."

Again Jack thanked him, and again Biffton relapsed into silence. Rather a damper on a man of
his calibre, when a fellow wouldn't touch a bell and say what.

Jack having a certain timidity about "butting in"--outsiders didn't do such things where he
came from--settled himself into the depths of the comfortable leather-covered arm-chair and
waited for Garry to finish his game. From where he sat he could not only overlook the small
tables holding a choice collection of little tear-bottles, bowls of crushed ice and high-pressure
siphons, but his eye also took in the stretch beyond, the club windows commanding the view
up and down and quite across the Avenue, as well as the vista to the left.

This outlook was the most valuable asset the Magnolia possessed. If the parasol was held flat,
with its back to the club-house, and no glimpse of the pretty face possible, it was, of course,
unquestionable evidence to the member looking over the top of his cocktail that neither the
hour or the place was propitious. If, however, it swayed to the right or left, or better still,
was folded tight, then it was equally conclusive that not only was the coast clear, but that
any number of things might happen, either at Tiffany's, or the Academy, or wherever else one
of those altogether accidental--"Why-who-would-have-thought-of-seeing-you- here" kind of meetings
take place--meetings so delightful in themselves because so unexpected.

These outlooks, too, were useful in solving many of the social problems that afflicted the
young men about town; the identity, for instance, of the occupant of the hansom who had just
driven past, heavily veiled, together with her destination and her reason for being out at
all; why the four-in-hand went up empty and came back with a pretty woman beside the "Tooler,"
and then turned up a side street toward the Park, instead of taking the Avenue into its confidence;
what the young wife of the old doctor meant when she waved her hand to the occupant of a third-story
window, and who lived there, and why--None of their business, of course--never could be--but
each and every escapade, incident and adventure being so much thrice-blessed manna to souls
stranded in the desert waste of club conversation.

None of these things interested our hero, and he soon found himself listening to the talk at
an adjoining table. Topping, a young lawyer, Whitman Bunce, a man of leisure--unlimited leisure--and
one or two others, were rewarming some of the day's gossip.

"Had the gall to tell Bob's man he couldn't sleep in linen sheets; had his own violet silk
ones in his trunk, to match his pajamas. The goat had 'em out and half on the bed when Bob
came in and stopped him. Awful row, I heard, when Mrs. Bob got on to it. He'll never go there
again."

"And I heard," broke in Bunce, "that she ordered the trap and sent him back to the station."

Other bits drifted Jack's way:

"Why he was waiting at the stage-door and she slipped out somewhere in front. Billy was with
her, so I heard.... When they got to Delmonico's there came near being a scrap.... No.... Never
had a dollar on Daisy Belle, or any other horse...."

Loud laughter was now heard at the end of the hall. A party of young men had reached the foot
of the stairs and were approaching Biffton and Jack. Garry's merry voice led the others.

"Still hard at work, are you, Biffy? Why, hello, Jack!--how long have you been here? Morlon,
you know Mr. Breen, don't you?--Yes, of course you do--new member--just elected. Get a move
on that carcass of yours, Biffy, and let somebody else get up to that table. Charles, take
the orders."

Jack had shaken everybody's hand by this time, Biffton having moved back a foot or two, and
the circle had widened so that the poker party could reach their cocktails. Garry extended
his arm till his hand rested on Jack's shoulder.

"Nothing sets me up like a game of poker, old man. Been on the building all day. You ought
to come up with me some time--I'll show you the greatest piece of steel construction you ever
saw. Mr. Morris was all over it to-day. Oh, by the way! Did that old chunk of sandstone come
up to see you last night? What did you say his name was?"

Jack repeated Peter's cognomen--this time without rolling the syllables under his tongue--said
that Mr. Grayson had kept his promise; that the evening had been delightful, and immediately
changed the subject. There was no use trying to convert Garry.

"And now tell me about the supper," asked Jack.

"Oh, that was all right. We whooped it up till they closed the bar and then went home with
the milk. Had an awful head on me next morning; nearly fell off the scaffold, I was so sleepy.
How's Miss Corinne? I'm going to stop in on my way uptown this afternoon and apologize to her.
I have her note, but I haven't had a minute to let her know why I didn't come. I'll show her
the ring; then she'll know why. Saw it, didn't you?"

Jack hadn't seen it. He had been too excited to look. Now he examined it. With the flash of
the gems Biffy sat up straight, and the others craned their heads. Garry slipped it off his
finger for the hundredth time for similar inspections, and Jack utilized the pause in the conversation
to say that Corinne had received the note and that in reply she had vented most of her disappointment
on himself, a disclosure which sent a cloud across Garry's face.

The cocktail hour had now arrived--one hour before dinner, an hour which was fixed by that
distinguished compounder of herbs and spirits, Mr. Biffton--and the room began filling up.
Most of the members were young fellows but a few years out of college, men who renewed their
Society and club life within its walls; some were from out of town--students in the various
professions. Here and there was a man of forty--one even of fifty-five--who preferred the gayer
and fresher life of the younger generation to the more solemn conclaves of the more exclusive
clubs further up and further down town. As is usual in such combinations, the units forming
the whole sought out their own congenial units and were thereafter amalgamated into groups,
a classification to be found in all clubs the world over. While Biffy and his chums could always
be found together, there were other less-fortunate young fellows, not only without coupon shears,
but sometimes without the means of paying their dues--who formed a little coterie of their
own, and who valued and used the club for what it brought them, their election carrying with
it a certain social recognition: it also widened one's circle of acquaintances and, perhaps,
of clients.

The sound of loud talking now struck upon Jack's ear. Something more important than the angle
of a parasol or the wearing of out-of-date spats was engrossing the attention of a group of
young men who had just entered. Jack caught such expressions as--"Might as well have picked
his pocket...." "He's flat broke, anyhow...." "Got to sell his house, I hear...."

Then came a voice louder than the others.

"There's Breen talking to Minott and Biffy. He's in the Street; he'll know.... Say, Breen!"

Jack rose to his feet and met the speaker half way.

"What do you know, Breen, about that scoop in gold stock? Heard anything about it? Who engineered
it? Charley Gilbert's cleaned out, I hear."

"I don't know anything," said Jack. "I left the office at noon and came up town. Who did you
say was cleaned out?"

"Why, Charley Gilbert. You must know him."

"Yes, I know him. What's happened to him?"

"Flat broke--that's what happened to him. Got caught in that gold swindle. The stock dropped
out of sight this afternoon, I hear--went down forty points."

Garry crowded his way into the group: "Which Mr. Gilbert?--not Charley M., the--"

"Yes; Sam's just left him. What did he tell you, Sam?"

"Just what you've said--I hear, too, that he has got to stop on his house out in Jersey. Can't
finish it and can't pay for what's been done."

Garry gave a low whistle and looked at Jack.

"That's rough. Mr. Morris drew the plan of Gilbert's house himself. I worked on the details."

"Rough!" burst out the first speaker. "I should say it was--might as well have burglared his
safe. They have been working up this game for months, so Charley told me. Then they gave out
that the lode had petered out and they threw it overboard and everybody with it. They said
they tried to find Charley to post him, but he was out of town."

"Who tried?" asked Jack, with renewed interest, edging his way close to the group. It was just
as well to know the sheep from the goats, if he was to spend the remainder of his life in the
Street.

"That's what we want to know. Thought you might have heard."

Jack shook his head and resumed his seat beside Biffy, who had not moved or shown the slightest
interest in the affair. Nobody could sell Biff any gold stock--nor any other kind of stock.
His came on the first of every month in a check from the Trust Company.

For some moments Jack did not speak. He knew young Gilbert, and he knew his young and very
charming wife. He had once sat next to her at dinner, when her whole conversation had been
about this new home and the keen interest that Morris, a friend of her father's, had taken
in it. "Mr. Breen, you and Miss Corinne must be among our earliest guests," she had said, at
which Corinne, who was next to Garry, had ducked her little head in acceptance. This was the
young fellow, then, who had been caught in one of the eddies whirling over the sunken rocks
of the Street. Not very creditable to his intelligence, perhaps, thought Jack; but, then, again,
who had placed them there, a menace to navigation?--and why? Certainly Peter could not have
known everything that was going on around him, if he thought the effort of so insignificant
an individual as himself could be of use in clearing out obstructions like these.

Garry noticed the thoughtful expression settling over Jack's face, and mistaking the cause
called Charles to take the additional orders.

"Cheer up--try a high-ball, Jack. It's none of your funeral. You didn't scoop Gilbert; we are
the worst sufferers. Can't finish his house now, and Mr. Morris is just wild over the design.
It's on a ledge of rock overlooking the lake, and the whole thing goes together. We've got
the roof on, and from across the lake it looks as if it had grown there. Mr. Morris repeated
the rock forms everywhere. Stunning, I tell you!"

Jack didn't want any high-ball, and said so. (Biffy didn't care if he did.) The boy's mind
was still on the scoop, particularly on the way in which every one of his fellow-members had
spoken of the incident.

"Horrid business, all of it. Don't you think so, Garry?" Jack said after a pause.

"No, not if you keep your eyes peeled," answered Garry, emptying his glass. "Never saw Gilbert
but once, and then he looked to me like a softy from Pillowville. Couldn't fool me, I tell
you, on a deal like that. I'd have had a 'stop order' somewhere. Served Gilbert right; no business
to be monkeying with a buzz-saw unless he knew how to throw off the belt."

Jack straightened his shoulders and his brows knit. The lines of the portrait were in the lad's
face now.

"Well, maybe it's all right, Garry. My own opinion is that it's no better than swindling. Anyway,
I'm mighty glad Uncle Arthur isn't mixed up in it. You heard what Sam and the other fellows
thought, didn't you? How would you like to have that said of you?"

Garry tossed back his head and laughed.

"Biffy, are you listening to his Reverence, the Bishop of Cumberland? Here endeth the first
lesson."

Biff nodded over his high-ball. He wasn't listening--discussions of any kind bored him.

"But what do you care, Jack, what they say--what anybody says?" continued Garry. "Keep right
on. You are in the Street to make money, aren't you? Everybody else is there for the same purpose.
What goes up must come down. If you don't want to get your head smashed, stand from under.
The game is to jump in, grab what you can, and jump out, dodging the bricks as they come. Let's
go up-town, old man."

Neither of the young men was expressing his own views. Both were too young and too inexperienced
to have any fixed ideas on so vital a subject.

It was the old fellow in the snuff-colored coat, black stock and dog-eared collar that was
behind Jack. If he were alive to-day Jack's view would have been his view, and that was the
reason why it was Jack's view. The boy could no more explain it than he could prove why his
eyes were brown and his hair a dark chestnut, or why he always walked with his toes very much
turned out, or made gestures with his hands when he talked. Had any of the jury been alive--and
some of them were--or the prosecuting-attorney, or even any one of the old settlers who attended
court, they could have told in a minute which one of the two young men was Judge Breen's son.
Not that Jack looked like his father. No young man of twenty-two looks like an old fellow of
sixty, but he certainly moved and talked like him--and had the same way of looking at things.
"The written law may uphold you, sir, and the jury may so consider, but I shall instruct them
to disregard your plea. There is a higher law, sir, than justice--a law of mercy--That I myself
shall exercise." The old Judge had sat straight up on his bench when he said it, his face cast-iron,
his eyes burning. The jury brought in an acquittal without leaving their seats. There was an
outbreak, of course, but the man went free. This young offshoot was from the same old stock,
that was all; same sap in his veins, same twist to his branch; same bud, same blossom and--same
fruit.

And Garry!

Not many years have elapsed since I watched him running in and out of his father's spacious
drawing-rooms on Fourteenth Street--the court end of town in those days. In the days, I mean,
when his father was Collector of the Port, and his father's house with its high ceilings, mahogany
doors and wide hall, and the great dining-room overlooking a garden with a stable in the rear.
It had not been many years, I say, since the Hon. Creighton Minott had thrown wide its doors
to whoever came--that is, whoever came properly accredited. It didn't last long, of course.
Politics changed; the "ins" became the "outs." And with the change came the bridging-over period--the
kind of cantilever which hope thrusts out from one side of the bank of the swift-flowing stream
of adversity in the belief that somebody on the other side of the chasm will build the other
half, and the two form a highway leading to a change of scene and renewed prosperity.

The hospitable Collector continued to be hospitable. He had always taken chances--he would
again. The catch-terms of Garry's day, such as "couldn't fool him," "keep your eye peeled,"
"a buzz-saw," etc., etc., were not current in the father's day, but their synonyms were. He
knew what he was about. As soon as a particular member of the Board got back from the other
side the Honorable Collector would have the position of Treasurer, and then it was only a question
of time when he would be President of the new corporation. I can see now the smile that lighted
up his rather handsome face when he told me. He was "monkeying with a buzz-saw" all the same
if he did but know it, and yet he always professed to follow the metaphor that he could "throw
off the belt" that drove the pulley at his own good pleasure and so stop the connecting machinery
before the teeth of the whirling blade could reach his fingers. Should it get beyond his control--of
which there was not the remotest possibility--he would, of course, rent his house, sell his
books and curtail. "In the meantime, my dear fellow, there is some of the old Madeira left
and a game of whist will only help to drive dull care away."

Garry never whimpered when the crash came. The dear mother died--how patient and uncomplaining
she was in all their ups and downs--and Garry was all that was left. What he had gained since
in life he had worked for; first as office boy, then as draughtsman and then in charge of special
work, earning his Chief's approval, as the Scribe has duly set forth. He got his inheritance,
of course. Don't we all get ours? Sometimes it skips a generation--some times two--but generally
we are wearing the old gentleman's suit of clothes cut down to fit our small bodies, making
believe all the time that they are our very own, unconscious of the discerning eyes who recognize
their cut and origin.

Nothing tangible, it is safe to say, came with Garry's share of the estate--and he got it all.
That is, nothing he could exchange for value received--no houses or lots, or stocks or bonds.
It was the INTANGIBLE that proved his richest possession, viz.:--a certain buoyancy of spirits;
a cheery, optimistic view of life; a winning personality and the power of both making and holding
friends. With this came another asset--the willingness to take chances, and still a third--an
absolute belief in his luck. Down at the bottom of the box littered with old papers, unpaid
tax bills and protested notes--all valueless--was a fourth which his father used to fish out
when every other asset failed--a certain confidence in the turn of a card.

But the virtues and the peccadilloes of their ancestors, we may be sure, were not interesting,
our two young men as they swung up the Avenue arm in arm, this particular afternoon, the sidewalks
crowded with the fashion of the day, the roadway blocked with carriages. Nor did any passing
objects occupy their attention.

Garry's mind was on Corinne, and what he would tell her, and how she would look as she listened,
the pretty head tucked on one side, her sparkling eyes drinking in every word of his story,
although he knew she wouldn't believe one-half of it. Elusive and irritating as she sometimes
was, there was really nobody exactly like Miss Corinne.

Jack's mind had resumed its normal tone. Garry's merry laugh and good-natured ridicule had
helped, so had the discovery that none of his friends had had anything to do with Gilbert's
fall. After all, he said to himself, as he strode up the street beside his friend, it was "none
of his funeral," none of his business, really. Such things went on every day and in every part
of the world. Neither was it his Uncle Arthur's. That was the most comforting part of all.

Corinne's voice calling over the banisters: "Is that you, Jack?" met the two young men as they
handed their hats to the noiseless Frederick. Both craned their necks and caught sight of the
Wren's head framed by the hand-rail and in silhouette against the oval sky-light in the roof above.

"Yes, and Garry's here, too. Come down."

The patter of little feet grew louder, then the swish of silken skirts, and with a spring she
was beside them.

"No, don't you say a word, Garry. I'm not going to listen and I won't forgive you no matter
what you say." She had both of his hands now.

"Ah, but you don't know, Miss Corinne. Has Jack told you?"

"Yes, told me everything; that you had a big supper and everybody stamped around the room;
that Mr. Morris gave you a ring, or something" (Garry held up his finger, but she wasn't ready
to examine it yet), "and that some of the men wanted to celebrate it, and that you went to
the club and stayed there goodness knows how long--all night, so Mollie Crane told me. Paul,
her brother, was there--and you never thought a word about your promise to me" (this came with
a little pout, her chin uplifted, her lips quite near his face), "and we didn't have half men
enough and our cotillion was all spoiled. I don't care--we had a lovely time, even if you two
men did behave disgracefully. No--I don't want to listen to a thing. I didn't come down to
see either of you." (She had watched them both from her window as they crossed the street.)
"What I want to know, Jack, is, who is Miss Felicia Grayson?"

"Why, Mr. Grayson's sister," burst out Jack--"the old gentleman who came to see me."

"That old fellow!"

"Yes, that old fellow--the most charming--"

"Not that remnant!" interrupted Garry.

"No, Garry--not that kind of a man at all, but a most delightful old gentleman by the name
of Mr. Grayson," and Jack's eyes flashed. "He told me his sister was coming to town. What do
you know about her, Corinne?" He was all excitement: Peter was to send for him when his sister
arrived.

"Nothing--that's why I ask you. I've just got a note from her. She says she knew mamma when
she lied in Washington, and that her brother has fallen in love with you, and that she won't
have another happy moment--or something like that--if you and I don't come to a tea she is
giving to a Miss Ruth MacFarlane; and that I am to give her love to mamma, and bring anybody
I please with me."

"When?" asked Jack. He could hardly restrain his joy.

"I think next Saturday--yes, next Saturday," consulting the letter in her hand.

"Where? At Mr. Grayson's rooms?" cried Jack.

"Yes, at her brother's, she says. Here, Jack--you read it. Some number in East Fifteenth Street--queer
place for people to live, isn't it, Garry?--people who want anybody to come to their teas.
I've got a dressmaker lives over there somewhere; she's in Fifteenth Street, anyhow, for I
always drive there."

Jack devoured the letter. This was what he had been hoping for. He knew the old gentleman would
keep his word!

"Well, of course you'll go, Corinne?" he cried eagerly.

"Of course I'll do nothing of the kind. I think it's a great piece of impudence. I've never
heard of her. Because you had her brother upstairs, that's no reason why--But that's just like
these people. You give them an inch and--"

Jack's cheeks flushed: "But, Corinne! She's offered you a courtesy--asked you to her house, and--"

"I don't care; I'm not going! Would you, Garry?"

The son of the Collector hesitated for a moment. He had his own ideas of getting on in the
world. They were not Jack's--his, he knew, would never succeed. And they were not exactly Corinne's--she
was too particular. The fence was evidently the best place for him.

"Would be rather a bore, wouldn't it?" he replied evasively, with a laugh. "Lives up under
the roof, I guess, wears a dyed wig, got Cousin Mary Ann's daguerreotype on the mantle, and
tells you how Uncle Ephraim--"

The door opened and Jack's aunt swept in. She never walked, or ambled, or stepped jauntily,
or firmly, or as if she wanted to get anywhere in particular; she SWEPT in, her skirts following
meekly behind--half a yard behind, sometimes.

Corinne launched the inquiry at her mother, even before she could return Garry's handshake.
"Who's Miss Grayson, mamma?"

"I don't know. Why, my child?"

"Well, she says she knows you. Met you in Washington."

"The only Miss Grayson I ever met in Washington, my dear, was an old maid, the niece of the
Secretary of State. She kept house for him after his wife died. She held herself very high,
let me tell you. A very grand lady, indeed. But she must be an old woman now, if she is still
living. What did you say her first name was?"

Corinne took the open letter from Jack's hand. "Felicia... Yes, Felicia."

"And what does she want?--money for some charity?" Almost everybody she knew, and some she
didn't, wanted money for some charity. She was loosening her cloak as she spoke, Frederick
standing by to relieve my lady of her wraps.

"No; she's going to give a tea and wants us all to come. She's the sister of that old man who
came to see Jack the other night, and--"

"Going to give a tea!--and the sister of--Well, then, she certainly isn't the Miss Grayson
I know. Don't you answer her, Corinne, until I find out who she is."

"I'll tell you who she is," burst out Jack. His face was aflame now. Never had he listened
to such discourtesy. He could hardly believe his ears.

"It wouldn't help me in the least, my dear Jack; so don't you begin. I am the best judge of
who shall come to my house. She may be all right, and she may not, you can never tell in a
city like New York, and you can't be too particular. People really do such curious pushing
things now-a-days." This to Garry. "Now serve tea, Parkins. Come in all of you."

Jack was on the point of blazing out in indignation over the false position in which his friend
had been placed when Peter's warning voice rang in his ears. The vulgarity of the whole proceeding
appalled him, yet he kept control of himself.

"None for me, please, aunty," he said quietly. "I will join you later, Garry," and he mounted
the stairs to his room.

CHAPTER VIII

Peter was up and dressed when Miss Felicia arrived, despite the early hour. Indeed that gay
cavalier was the first to help the dear lady off with her travelling cloak and bonnet, Mrs.
McGuffey folding her veil, smoothing out her gloves and laying them all upon the bed in the
adjoining room--the one she kept in prime order for Miss Grayson's use.

The old fellow was facing the coffee-urn when he told her Jack's story and what he himself
had said in reply, and how fine the boy was in his beliefs, and how well-nigh impossible it
was for him to help him, considering his environment.

The dear lady had listened with her eyes fixed on Peter. It was but another of his benevolent
finds; it had been the son of an old music teacher the winter before, and a boy struggling
through college last spring;--always somebody who wanted to get ahead in one direction or another,
no matter how impracticable his ambitions might be. This young man, however, seemed different;
certain remarks had a true ring. Perhaps, after all, her foolish old brother--foolish when
his heart misled him--might have found somebody at last who would pay for the time he spent
upon him. The name, too, had a familiar sound. She was quite sure the aunt must be the same
rather over-dressed persistent young widow who had flitted in and out of Washington society
the last year of her own stay in the capital. She had finally married a rich New York man of
the same name. So she had heard.

The tea to which Jack and Corinne were invited was the result of this conversation. Trust Miss
Felicia for doing the right thing and in the right way, whatever her underlying purpose might
be; and then again she must look this new protege over.

Peter at once joined in the project. Nothing pleased him so much as a function of any kind
in which his dear sister was the centre of attraction, and this was always the case. Was not
Mrs. McGuffey put to it, at these same teas, to know what to do with the hats and coats, and
the long and short cloaks and overshoes, and lots of other things beside--umbrellas and the
like--whenever Miss Felicia came to town? And did not the good woman have many of the cards
of the former function hidden in her bureau drawer to show her curious friends just how grand
a lady Miss Felicia was? General Waterbury, U.S.A., commanding the Department of the East,
with headquarters at Governors Island, was one of them. And so were Colonel Edgerton, Judge
Lambert and Mrs. Lambert; and His Excellency the French Ambassador, whom she had known as an
attache and who was passing through the city and had been overjoyed to leave a card; as well
as Sir Anthony Broadstairs, who expected to spend a week with her in her quaint home in Geneseo,
but who had made it convenient to pay his respects in Fifteenth Street instead: to say nothing
of the Coleridges, Thomases, Bordeauxs and Worthing tons, besides any number of people from
Washington Square, with plenty more from Murray Hill and be yond.

Peter in his enthusiasm had made a mental picture of a repetition of all this and had already
voiced it in the suggestion of these and various other prominent names, "when Miss Felicia
stopped him with:

"No, Peter--No. It's not to be a museum of fossils, but a garden full of rosebuds; nobody with
a strand of gray hair will be invited. As for the lame, the halt and the blind, they can come
next week. I've just been looking you over, Peter; you are getting old and wrinkled and pretty
soon you'll be as cranky as the rest of them, and there will be no living with you. The Major,
who is half your age"--I had come early, as was my custom, to pay my respects to the dear woman--"is
no better. You are both of you getting into a rut. What you want is some young blood pumped
into your shrivelled veins. I am going to hunt up every girl I know and all the boys, including
that young Breen you are so wild over, and then I'll send for dear Ruth MacFarlane, who has
just come North with her father to live, and who doesn't know a soul, and nobody over twenty-five
is to be admitted. So if you and the Major want to come to Ruth's tea--Ruth's, remember; not
yours or the Major's, or mine--you will either have to pass the cake or take the gentlemen's
hats. Do you hear?"

We heard, and we heard her laugh as she spoke, raising her gold lorgnon to her eyes and gazing
at us with that half-quizzical look which so often comes over her face.

She was older than Peter--must have been: I never knew exactly. It would not have been wise
to ask her, and nobody else knew but Peter, and he never told. And yet there was no mark of
real old age upon her. She and Peter were alike in this. Her hair, worn Pompadour, was gray--an
honest black-and-white gray; her eyes were bright as needle points; the skin slightly wrinkled,
but fresh and rosy--a spare, straight, well-groomed old lady of--perhaps sixty--perhaps sixty-five,
depending on her dress, or undress, for her shoulders were still full and well rounded. "The
most beautiful neck and throat, sir, in all Washington in her day," old General Waterbury once
told me, and the General was an authority. "You should have seen her in her prime, sir. What
the devil the men were thinking of I don't know, but they let her go back to Geneseo, and there
she has lived ever since. Why, sir, at a ball at the German Embassy she made such a sensation
that--" but then the General always tells such stories of most of the women he knows.

There was but little left of that kind of beauty. She had kept her figure, it is true--a graceful,
easy moving figure, with the waist of a girl; well-proportioned arms and small, dainty hands.
She had kept, too, her charm of manner and keen sense of humor--she wouldn't have been Peter's
sister otherwise--as well as her interest in her friend's affairs, especially the love affairs
of all the young people about her.

Her knowledge of men and women had broadened. She read them more easily now than when she was
a girl--had suffered, perhaps, by trusting them too much. This had sharpened the tip end of
her tongue to so fine a point that when it became active--and once in a while it did--it could
rip a sham reputation up the back as easily as a keen blade loosens the seams of a bodice.

Peter fell in at once with her plan for a "Rosebud Tea," in spite of her raillery and the threatened
possibility of our exclusion, promising not only to assist her with the invitations, but to
be more than careful at the Bank in avoiding serious mistakes in his balances--so as to be
on hand promptly at four. Moreover, if Jack had a sweetheart--and there was no question of
it, or ought not to be--and Corinne had another, what would be better than bringing them all
down together, so that Miss Felicia could look them over, and Miss Ruth and the Major could
get better acquainted, especially Jack and Miss Felicia; and more especially Jack and himself.

Miss Felicia's proposal having therefore been duly carried out, with a number of others not
thought of when the tea was first discussed--including some pots of geraniums in the window,
red, of course, to match the color of Peter's room--and the freshening up of certain swiss
curtains which so offended Miss Felicia's ever-watchful eyes that she burst out with: "It is
positively disgraceful, Peter, to see how careless you are getting--" At which Mrs. McGuffey
blushed to the roots of her hair, and washed them herself that very night before she closed
her eyes. The great day having arrived, I say the tea-table was set with Peter's best, including
"the dearest of silver teapots" that Miss Felicia had given him for special occasions; the
table covered with a damask cloth and all made ready for the arrival of her guests. This done,
the lady returned to her own room, from which she emerged an hour later in a soft gray silk
relieved by a film of old lace at her throat, blending into the tones of her gray hair brushed
straight up from her forehead and worn high over a cushion, the whole topped by a tiny jewel
which caught the light like a drop of dew.

And a veritable grand dame she looked, and was, as she took her seat and awaited the arrival
of her guests--in bearing, in the way she moved her head; in the way she opened her fan--in
the selection of the fan itself, for that matter. You felt it in the color and length of her
gloves; the size of her pearl ear rings (not too large, and yet not too small), in the choice
of the few rings that encircled her slender and now somewhat shrunken fingers (one hoop of
gold had a history that the old French Ambassador could have told if he wanted to, so Peter
once hinted to me)--everything she did in fact betrayed a wide acquaintance with the great
world and its requirements and exactions.

Other women of her age might of their choice drop into charities, or cats, or nephews and nieces,
railing against the present and living only in the past; holding on like grim death to everything
that made it respect able, so that they looked for all the world like so many old daguerreotypes
pulled from the frames. Not so Miss Felicia Grayson of Geneseo, New York. Her past was a flexible,
india-rubber kind of a past that she stretched out after her. She might still wear her hair
as she did when the old General raved over her, although the frost of many winters had touched
it; but she would never hold on to the sleeves of those days or the skirts or the mantles:
Out or in they must go, be puffed, cut bias, or made plain, just as the fashion of the day
insisted. Oh! a most level-headed, common-sense, old aristocrat was Dame Felicia!

With the arrival of the first carriage old Isaac Cohen moved his seat from the back to the
front of his shop, so he could see everybody who got out and went in, as well as everybody
who walked past and gazed up at the shabby old house and its shabbier steps and railings. Not
that the shabby surroundings ever made any difference whether the guests were "carriage company"
or not, to quote good Mrs. McGuffey. Peter would not be Peter if he lived anywhere else, and
Miss Felicia wouldn't be half so quaint and charming if she had received her guests behind
a marble or brownstone front with an awning stretched to the curbstone and a red velvet carpet
laid across the sidewalk, the whole patrolled by a bluecoat and two hired men.

The little tailor had watched many such functions before. So had the neighbors, who were craning
their heads from the windows. They all knew by the carriages when Miss Felicia came to town
and when she left, and by the same token for that matter. The only difference between this
reception and former receptions, or teas, or whatever the great people upstairs called them,
was in the ages of the guests; not any gray whiskers and white heads under high silk hats,
this time; nor any demure or pompous, or gentle, or, perhaps, faded old ladies puffing up Peter's
stairs--and they did puff before they reached his door, where they handed their wraps to Mrs.
McGuffey in her brave white cap and braver white apron. Only bright eyes and rosy faces today
framed in tiny bon nets, and well-groomed young fellows in white scarfs and black coats.

But if anybody had thought of the shabby surroundings they forgot all about it when they mounted
the third flight of stairs and looked in the door. Not only was Peter's bedroom full of outer
garments, and Miss Felicia's, too, for that matter--but the banisters looked like a clothes-shop
undergoing a spring cleaning, so thickly were the coats slung over its hand rail. So, too,
were the hall, and the hall chairs, and the gas bracket, and even the hooks where Peter hung
his clothes to be brushed in the morning--every conceivable place, in fact, wherever an outer
wrap of any kind could be suspended, poked, or laid flat. That Mrs. McGuffey was at her wits'
end--only a short walk--was evident from the way she grabbed my hat and coat and disappeared
through a door which led to her own apartments, returning a moment later out of breath and,
I fancied, a little out of temper.

And that was nothing to the way in which the owners of all these several habiliments were wedged
inside. First came the dome of Peter's bald head surmounting his merry face, then the top of
Miss Felicia's pompadour, with its tiny diamond spark bobbing about as she laughed and moved
her head in saluting her guests and then mobs and mobs of young people packed tight, looking
for all the world like a matinee crowd leaving a theatre (that is when you crane your neck
to see over their heads), except that the guests were without their wraps and were talking
sixteen to the dozen, and as merry as they could be.

"They are all here, Major," Peter cried, dragging me inside. It was wonderful how young and
happy he looked. "Miss Corinne, and that loud Hullaballoo, Garry Minott, we saw prancing around
at the supper--you remember--Holker gave him the ring."

"And Miss MacFarlane?" I asked.

"Ruth! Turn your head, my boy, and take a look at her. Isn't she a picture? Did you ever see
a prettier girl in all your life, and one more charmingly dressed? Ruth, this is the Major...
nothing else... just the Major. He is perfectly docile, kind and safe, and--"

"--And drives equally well in single or double harness, I suppose," laughed the girl, extending
her hand and giving me the slightest dip of her head and bend of her back in recognition, no
doubt, of my advancing years and dignified bearing--in apology, too, perhaps, for her metaphor.

"In SINGLE--not double," rejoined Peter. "He's the sourest, crabbedest old bachelor in the
world--except myself."

Again her laugh bubbled out--a catching, spontaneous kind of laugh, as if there were plenty
more packed away behind her lips ready to break loose whenever they found an opening.

"Then, Major, you shall have two lumps to sweeten you up," and down went the sugar-tongs into
the silver bowl.

Here young Breen leaned forward and lifted the bowl nearer to her hand, while I waited for
my cup. He had not left her side since Miss Felicia had presented him, so Peter told me afterward.
I had evidently interrupted a conversation, for his eyes were still fastened upon hers, drinking
in her every word and movement.

"And is sugar your cure for disagreeable people, Miss MacFarlane?" I heard him ask under his
breath as I stood sipping my tea.

"That depends on how disagreeable they are," she answered. This came with a look from beneath
her eyelids.

"I must be all right, then, for you only gave me one lump--" still under his breath.

"Only one! I made a mistake--" Eyes looking straight into Jack's, with a merry twinkle gathering
around their corners.

"Perhaps I don't need any at all."

"Yes, I'm sure you do. Here--hold your cup, sir; I'll fill it full."

"No, I'm going to wait and see what effect one lump has. I'm beginning to get pleasant already--and
I was cross as two sticks when I--"

And then she insisted he should have at least three more to make him at all bearable, and he
said there would be no living with him he would be so charming and agreeable, and so the talk
ran on, the battledoor and shuttlecock kind of talk--the same prattle that we have all listened
to dozens of times, or should have listened to, to have kept our hearts young. And yet not
a talk at all; a play, rather, in which words count for little and the action is everything:
Listening to the toss of a curl or the lowering of an eyelid; answering with a lift of the
hand--such a strong brown hand, that could pull an oar, perhaps, or help her over dangerous
places! Then her white teeth, and the way the head bent; and then his ears and how close they
lay to his head; and the short, glossy hair with the faintest bit of a curl in it. And then
the sudden awakening: Oh, yes--it was the sugar Mr. Breen wanted, of course. What was I thinking
of?

And so the game went on, neither of them caring where the ball went so that it could be hit
again when it came their way.

When it was about to stay its flight I ventured in with the remark that she must not forget
to give my kindest and best to her good father. I think she had forgotten I was standing so near.

"And you know daddy!" she cried--the real girl was shining in her eyes now--all the coquetry
had vanished from her face.

"Yes--we worked together on the piers of the big bridge over the Delaware; oh, long ago."

"Isn't he the very dearest? He promised to come here today, but I know he won't. Poor daddy,
he gets home so tired sometimes. He has just started on the big tunnel and there is so much
to do. I have been helping him with his papers every night. But when Aunt Felicia's note came--she
isn't my real aunt, you know, but I have called her so ever since I was a little girl--daddy
insisted on my coming, and so I have left him for just a few days. He will be so glad when
I tell him I have met one of his old friends." There was no question of her beauty, or poise,
or her naturalness.

"Been a lady all her life, my dear Major, and her mother before her," Miss Felicia said when
I joined her afterward, and Miss Felicia knew. "She is not like any of the young girls about,
as you can see for yourself. Look at her now," she whispered, with an approving nod of her head.

Again my eyes sought the girl. The figure was willowy and graceful; the shoulders sloping,
the arms tapering to the wrists. The hair was jet black--"Some Spanish blood somewhere," I
suggested, but the dear lady answered sharply, "Not a drop; French Huguenot, my dear Major,
and I am surprised you should have made such a mistake." This black hair parted in the middle,
lay close to her head--such a wealth and torrent of it; even with tucking it behind her ears
and gathering it in a coil in her neck it seemed just ready to fall. The face was oval, the
nose perfect, the mouth never still for an instant, so full was it of curves and twinkles and
little quivers; the eyes big, absorbing, restful, with lazy lids that lifted slowly and lay
motionless as the wings of a resting butterfly, the eyebrows full and exquisitely arched. Had
you met her in mantilla and high-heeled shoes, her fan half shading her face, you would have
declared, despite Miss Felicia's protest, that only the click of the castanets was needed to
send her whirling to their rhythm. Had she tied that same mantilla close under her lovely chin,
and passed you with upturned eyes and trembling lips, you would have sworn that the Madonna
from the neighboring church had strayed from its frame in search of the helpless and the unhappy;
and had none of these disguises been hers, and she had flashed by you in the open some bright
morning mounted on her own black mare, face aglow, eyes like stars, her wonderful hair waving
in the wind, you would have stood stock-still in admiration, fear gripping your throat, a prayer
in your heart for the safe home-coming of one so fearless and so beautiful.

There was, too, about her a certain gentleness, a certain disposition to be kind, even when
her inherent coquetry--natural in the Southern girl--led her into deep waters; a certain tenderness
that made friends of even unhappy suitors (and I heard that she could not count them on her
fingers) who had asked for more than she could give--a tenderness which healed the wound and
made lovers of them all for life.

And then her Southern speech, indescribable and impossible in cold type. The softening of the
consonants, the slipping away of the terminals, the slurring of vowels, and all in that low,
musical voice born out side of the roar and crash of city streets and crowded drawing-rooms
with each tongue fighting for mastery.

All this Jack had taken in, besides a thousand other charms visible only to the young enthusiast,
before he had been two minutes in her presence. As to her voice, he knew she was one of his
own people when she had finished pronouncing his name. Somebody worthwhile had crossed his
path at last!

And with this there had followed, even as he talked to her, the usual comparisons made by all
young fellows when the girl they don't like is placed side by side with the girl they do. Miss
MacFarlane was tall and Corinne was short; Miss MacFarlane was dark, and he adored dark, handsome
people--and Corinne was light; Miss MacFarlane's voice was low and soft, her movements slow
and graceful, her speech gentle--as if she were afraid she might hurt someone inadvertently;
her hair and dress were simple to severity. While Corinne--well, in every one of these details
Corinne represented the exact opposite. It was the blood! Yes, that was it--it was her blood!
Who was she, and where did she come from? Would Corinne like her? What impression would this
high bred Southern beauty make upon the pert Miss Wren, whose little nose had gone down a point
or two when her mother had discovered, much to her joy, the week before, that it was the REAL
Miss Grayson and not an imitation Miss Grayson who had been good enough to invite her daughter
and any of her daughter's friends to tea; and it had fallen another point when she learned
that Miss Felicia had left her card the next day, expressing to the potato-bug how sorry she
was to hear that the ladies were out, but that she hoped it would only be a matter of a few
days before "she would welcome them" to her own apartments, or words to that effect, Frederick's
memory being slightly defective.

It was in answer to this request that Mrs. Breen, after consulting her husband, had written
three acceptances before she was willing that Frederick should leave it with his own hands
in Fifteenth Street--one beginning, "It certainly is a pleasure after all these years"--which
was discarded as being too familiar; another, "So good of you, dear Miss Grayson," which had
a similar fate; and the third, which ran, "My daughter will be most happy, dear Miss Grayson,
to be with you," etc., which was finally sealed with the Breen crest--a four-legged beastie
of some kind on its hind legs, with a motto explanatory of the promptness of his ancestors
in times of danger. Even then Corinne had hesitated about accepting until Garry said: "Well,
let's take it in, anyhow--we can skip out if they bore us stiff."

Knowing these things, therefore, and fearing that after all something would happen to mar the
pleasant relations he had established with Peter, and with the honor of his uncle's family
in his keeping, so to speak, Jack had awaited the arrival of Corinne and Garry with considerable
trepidation. What if, after all, they should stay away, ignoring the great courtesy which this
most charming of old ladies--never had he seen one so lovable or distinguished--had extended
to them; and she a stranger, too, and all because her brother Peter had asked her to be kind
to a boy like himself.

The entrance of Corinne and Garry, therefore, into the crowded room half an hour after his
own had brought a relief to Jack's mind (he had been watching the door, so as to be ready to
present them), which Miss Felicia's gracious salutation only intensified.

"I remember your dear mother perfectly," he heard the old lady say as she advanced to Corinne
and took both her hands. "And she was quite lovely. And this I am very sure is Mr. Breen's
friend, Mr. Minott, who has carried off all the honors. I am delighted to see you both. Peter,
do you take these dear young people and present them to Ruth."

The two had thereupon squeezed through to Ruth's side; Peter in his formal introduction awarding
to Garry all the honors to which he was entitled, and then Ruth, remembering her duties, said
how glad she was to know them; and would they have lemon or sugar?--and Corinne, with a comprehensive
glance of her rival, declined both, her excuse being that she was nearly dead now with the
heat and that a cup of tea would finish her. Jack had winced when his ears caught the flippant
answer, but it was nothing to the way in which he shrivelled up when Garry, after shaking Miss
MacFarlane's hand as if it had been a pump-handle instead of a thing so dainty that no boy
had a right to touch it except with reverence in his heart, had burst out with: "Glad to see
you. From the South, I hear--" as if she was a kangaroo or a Fiji Islander. He had seen Miss
MacFarlane give a little start at Garry's familiar way of speaking, and had noticed how Ruth
shrank behind the urn as if she were afraid he would touch her again, although she had laughed
quite good-naturedly as she answered:

"Not very far South; only from Maryland," and had then turned to Jack and continued her talk
with the air of one not wishing to be further interrupted.

The Scribe does not dare to relate what would have become of one so sensitive as our hero could
he have heard the discussion going on later between the two young people when they were backed
into one of Peter's bookcases and stood surveying the room. "Miss MacFarlane isn't at all my
kind of a girl," Corinne had declared to Garry. "Really, I can't see why the men rave over
her. Pretty?--yes, sort of so-so; but no style, and SUCH clothes! Fancy wearing a pink lawn
and a sash tied around her waist like a girl at a college commencement--and as to her hair--why
no one has ever THOUGHT of dressing her hair that way for AGES and AGES."

Her mind thus relieved, my Lady Wren had made a survey of the rooms, wondering what they wanted
with so many funny old portraits, and whether the old gentleman or his sister read the dusty
books, Garry remarking that there were a lot of "swells" among the young fellows, many of whom
he had heard of but had never met before. This done, the two wedged their way out, without
ever troubling Peter or Miss Felicia with their good-bys, Garry telling Corinne that the old
lady wouldn't know they were gone, and Corinne adding under her breath that it didn't make
any difference to her if she did.

CHAPTER IX

But Jack stayed on.

This was the atmosphere he had longed for. This, too, was where Peter lived. Here were the
chairs he sat in, the books he read, the pictures he enjoyed. And the well-dressed, well-bred
people, the hum of low voices, the clusters of roses, the shaded candles, their soft rosy light
falling on the egg-shell cups and saucers and silver service, and the lovely girl dispensing
all this hospitality and cheer! Yes, here he could live, breathe, enjoy life. Everything was
worth while and just as he had expected to find it.

When the throng grew thick about her table he left Ruth's side, taking the opportunity to speak
to Peter or Miss Felicia (he knew few others), but he was back again whenever the chance offered.

"Don't send me away again," he pleaded when he came back for the twentieth time, and with so
much meaning in his voice that she looked at him with wide-open eyes. It was not what he said--she
had been brought up on that kind of talk--it was the way he said it, and the inflection in
his voice.

"I have been literally starving for somebody like you to talk to," he continued, drawing up
a stool and settling himself determinedly beside her.

"For me! Why, Mr. Breen, I'm not a piece of bread--" she laughed. "I'm just girl." He had begun
to interest her--this brown-eyed young fellow who wore his heart on his sleeve, spoke her dialect
and treated her as if she were a duchess.

"You are life-giving bread to me, Miss MacFarlane," answered Jack with a smile. "I have only
been here six months; I am from the South, too." And then the boy poured out his heart, telling
her, as he had told Peter, how lonely he got sometimes for some of his own kind; and how the
young girl in the lace hat and feathers, who had come in with Garry, was his aunt's daughter;
and how he himself was in the Street, signing checks all day--at which she laughed, saying
in reply that nothing would give her greater pleasure than a big book with plenty of blank
checks--she had never had enough, and her dear father had never had enough, either. But he
omitted all mention of the faro bank and of the gamblers--such things not being proper for
her ears, especially such little pink shells of ears, nestling and half hidden in her beautiful
hair.

There was no knowing how long this absorbing conversation might have continued (it had already
attracted the attention of Miss Felicia) had not a great stir taken place at the door of the
outside hall. Somebody was coming upstairs; or had come upstairs; somebody that Peter was laughing
with--great, hearty laughs, which showed his delight; somebody that made Miss Felicia raise
her head and listen, a light breaking over her face. Then Peter's head was thrust in the door:

"Here he is, Felicia. Come along, Holker--I have been wondering--"

"Been wondering what, Peter? That I'd stay away a minute longer than I could help after this
dear lady had arrived?... Ah, Miss Felicia! Just as magnificent and as young as ever. Still
got that Marie Antoinette look about you--you ought really--"

"Stop that nonsense, Holker, right away," she cried, advancing a step to greet him.

"But it's all true, and--"

"Stop, I tell you; none of your sugar-coated lies. I am seventy if I am a day, and look it,
and if it were not for these furbelows I would look eighty. Now tell me about yourself and
Kitty and the boys, and whether the Queen has sent you the Gold Medal yet, and if the big Library
is finished and--"

"Whew! what a cross examination. Wait--I'll draw up a set of specifications and hand them in
with a new plan of my life."

"You will do nothing of the kind! You will draw up a chair--here, right alongside of me, and
tell me about Kitty and--No, Peter, he is not going to be taken over and introduced to Ruth
for at least five minutes. Peter has fallen in love with her, Holker, and I do not blame him.
One of these young fellows--there he is still talking to her--hasn't left her side since he
put his eyes on her. Now begin--The Medal?--

"Expected by next steamer."

"The Corn Exchange?"

"All finished but the inside work."

"Kitty?"

"All finished but the outside work."

Miss Felicia looked up. "Your wife, I mean, you stupid fellow."

"Yes, I know. She would have come with me but her dress didn't arrive in time."

Miss Felicia laughed: "And the boys?"

"Still in Paris--buying bric-a-brac and making believe they're studying architecture and--But
I'm not going to answer another question. Attention! Miss Felicia Grayson at the bar!"

The dear lady straightened her back, her face crinkling with merriment.

"Present!" she replied, drawing down the corners Of her mouth.

"When did you leave home? How long will you stay? Can you come to dinner--you and Methusaleh--on
Wednesday night?"

"I refuse to answer by advice of counsel. As to coming to dinner, I am not going anywhere for
a week--then I am coming to you and Kitty, whether it is Wednesday or any other night. Now,
Peter, take him away. He's so puffed up with his Gold Medal he's positively unbearable."

All this time Jack had been standing beside Ruth. He had heard the stir at the door and had
seen Holker join Miss Felicia, and while the talk between the two lasted he had interspersed
his talk to Ruth with accounts of the supper, and Garry's getting the ring, to which was added
the boy's enthusiastic tribute to the architect himself. "The greatest man I have met yet,"
he said in his quick, impulsive way. "We don't have any of them down our way. I never saw one--nobody
ever did. Here he comes with Mr. Grayson. I hope you will like him."

Ruth made a movement as if to start to her feet. To sit still and look her best and attend
to her cups and hot water and tiny wafers was all right for men like Jack, but not with distinguished
men like Mr. Morris.

Morris had his hand on her chair before she could move it back.

"No, my dear young lady--you'll please keep your seat. I've been watching you from across the
room sand you make too pretty a picture as you are. Tea?--Not a drop."

"Oh, but it is so delicious--and I will give you the very biggest piece of lemon that is left."

"No--not a drop; and as to lemon--that's rank poison to me. You should have seen me hobbling
around with gout only last week, and all because somebody at a reception, or tea, or some such
plaguey affair, made me drink a glass of lemonade. Give it to this aged old gentleman--it will
keep him awake. Here, Peter!"

Up to this moment no word had been addressed to Jack, who stood outside the half circle waiting
for some sign of recognition from the great man; and a little disappointed when none came.
He did not know that one of the great man's failings was his forgetting the names even of those
of his intimate friends--such breaks as "Glad to see you--I remember you very well, and very
pleasantly, and now please tell me your name," being a common occurrence with the great architect--a
failing that everybody pardoned.

Peter noticed the boy's embarrassment and touched Morris' arm.

"You remember Mr. Breen, don't you, Holker? He was at your supper that night--and sat next to me."

Morris whirled quickly and held out his hand, all his graciousness in his manner.

"Yes, certainly. You took the ring to Minott, of course. Very glad to meet you again--and what
did you say his name was, Peter?" This in the same tone of voice--quite as if Jack were miles away.

"Breen--John Breen," answered Peter, putting his arm on Jack's shoulder, to accentuate more
clearly his friendship for the boy.

"All the better, Mr. John Breen--doubly glad to see you, now that I know your name. I'll try
not to forget it next time. Breen! Breen! Peter, where have I heard that name before? Breen--where
the devil have I--Oh, yes--I've got it now. Quite a common name, isn't it?"

Jack assured him with a laugh that it was; there were more than a hundred in the city directory.
He wasn't offended at Morris forgetting his name, and wanted him to see it.

"Glad to know it; wouldn't like to think you were mixed up in the swindle. You ought to thank
your stars, my dear fellow, that you got into architecture instead of into Wall--"

"But I am in--"

"Yes, I know--you're with Hunt--" (another instance of a defective memory) "and you couldn't
be with a better man--the best in the profession, really. I'm talking of some scoundrels of
your name--Breen & Co., the firm is--who, I hear, have cheated one of my clients--young Gilbert--fine
fellow--just married--persuaded him to buy some gold stock--Mukton Lode, I think they called
it--and robbed him of all he has. He must stop on his house I hear. And now, my dear Miss--"
here he turned to the young girl--"I really forget--"

"Ruth," she answered with a smile. She had taken Morris's measure and had already begun to
like him as much as Jack did.

"Yes--Miss Ruth--Now, please, my dear girl, keep on being young and very beautiful and very
wholesome, for you are every one of these things, and I know you'll forgive me for saying so
when I tell you that I have two strapping young fellows for sons who are almost old enough
to make love to you. Come, Peter, show me that copy of Tacitus you wrote me about. Is it in
good condition?" They were out of Jack's hearing now, Morris adding, "Fine type of Southern
beauty, Peter. Big design, with broad lines everywhere. Good, too--good as gold. Something
about her forehead that reminds me of the Italian school. Looks as if Bellini might have loved
her. Hello, Major! What are you doing here all by yourself?"

Jack stood transfixed!

Horror, anger, humiliation over the exposure (it was unheard, if he had but known it, by anyone
in the room except Peter and himself) rushed over him in hot concurrent waves. It was his uncle,
then, who had robbed young Gilbert! The Mukton Lode! He had handled dozens of the certificates,
just as he had handled dozens of others, hardly glancing at the names. He remembered overhearing
some talk one day in which his uncle had taken part. Only a few days before he had sent a bundle
of Mukton certificates to the transfer office of the company.

Then a chill struck him full in the chest and he shivered to his finger-tips. Had Ruth heard?--and
if she had heard, would she understand? In his talk he had given her his true self--his standards
of honor--his beliefs in what was true and worth having. When she knew all--and she must know--would
she look upon him as a fraud? That his uncle had been accused of a shrewd scoop in the Street
did not make his clerk a thief, but would she see the difference?

All these thoughts surged through his mind as he stood looking into her eyes, her hand in his
while he made his adieux. He had determined, before Morris fired the bomb which shattered his
hopes, to ask if he might see her again, and where, and if there could be found no place fitting
and proper, she being motherless and Miss Felicia but a chaperon, to write her a note inviting
her to walk up through the Park with him, and so on into the open where she really belonged.
All this was given up now. The best thing for him was to take his leave as quietly as possible,
without committing her to anything--anything which he felt sure she would repudiate as soon
as she learned--if she did not know already--how undesirable an acquaintance John Breen, of
Breen & Co., was, etc.

As to his uncle's share in the miserable transaction, there was but one thing to do--to find
out, and from his own lips, if possible, if the story were true, and if so to tell him exactly
what he thought of Breen & Co. and the business in which they were engaged. Peter's advice
was good, and he wished he could follow it, but here was a matter in which his honor was concerned.
When this side of the matter was presented to Mr. Grayson he would commend him for his course
of action. To think that his own uncle should be accused of a transaction of this kind--his
own uncle and a Breen! Could anything be more horrible!

So sudden was his departure from the room--just "I must go now; I'm so grateful to you all
for asking me, and I've had such a good--Good-by--" that Miss Felicia looked after him in astonishment,
turning to Peter with:

"Why, what's the matter with the boy? I wanted him to dine with us. Did you say anything to
him, Peter, to hurt his feelings?"

Peter shook his head. Morris, he knew, was the unconscious culprit, but this was not for his
sister's or Ruth's ears--not, at least, until he could get at the exact facts for himself.

"He is as sensitive as a plant," continued Peter; "he closes all up at times. But he is genuine,
and he is sincere--that's better than poise, sometimes."

"Well, then, maybe Ruth has offended him," suggested Miss Felicia. "No--she couldn't. Ruth,
what have you done to young Mr. Breen?"

The girl threw back her head and laughed.

"Nothing."

"Well, he went off as if he had been shot from a gun. That is not like him at all, I should
say, from what I have seen of him. Perhaps I should have looked after him a little more. I
tried once, but I could not get him away from you. His manner is really charming when he talks,
and he is so natural and so well bred; not at all like his friend, of whom he seems to think
so much. How did you like him, dear Ruth?"

"Oh, I don't know." She knew, but she didn't intend to tell anybody. "He's very shy and--"

"--And very young."

"Yes, perhaps."

"And very much of a gentleman," broke in Peter in a decided tone. None should misunderstand
the boy if he could help it.

Again Ruth laughed. Neither of them had touched the button which had rung up her sympathy and
admiration.

"Of course he is a gentleman. He couldn't be anything else. He is from Maryland, you know."

CHAPTER X

Reference has been made in these pages to a dinner to be given in the house of Breen to various
important people, and to which Mr. Peter Grayson, the honored friend of the distinguished President
of the Clearing House, was to be invited. The Scribe is unable to say whether the distinguished
Mr. Grayson received an invitation or not. Breen may have thought better of it, or Jack may
have discouraged it after closer acquaintance with the man who had delighted his soul as no
other man except his father had ever done--but certain it is that he was not present, and equally
certain is it that the distinguished Mr. Portman was, and so were many of the directors of
the Mukton Lode, not to mention various others--capitalists whose presence would lend dignity
to the occasion and whose names and influence would be of inestimable value to the future of
the corporation.

As fate would have it the day for assuaging the appetites of these financial magnates was the
same that Miss Felicia had selected for her tea to Ruth, and the time at which they were to
draw up their chairs but two hours subsequent to that in which Jack, crushed sad humiliated
by his uncle's knavery, had crept downstairs and into the street.

In this frame of mind the poor boy had stopped at the Magnolia in the hope of finding Garry,
who must, he thought, have left Corinne at home, and then retraced his steps to the club. He
must explode somewhere and with someone, and the young architect was the very man he wanted.
Garry had ridiculed his old-fashioned ideas and had advised him to let himself go. Was the
wiping out of Gilbert's fortune part of the System? he asked himself.

As he hunted through the rooms, almost deserted at this hour, his eyes searching for his friend,
a new thought popped into his head, and with such force that it bowled him over into a chair,
where he sat staring straight in front of him. Tonight, he suddenly remembered, was the night
of the dinner his uncle was to give to some business friends--"A Gold-Mine Dinner," his aunt
had called it. His cheeks flamed again when he thought that these very men had helped in the
Mukton swindle. To interrupt them, though, at their feast--or even to mention the subject to
his uncle while the dinner was in progress--was, of course, out of the question. He would stay
where he was; dine alone, unless Garry came in, and then when the last man had left his uncle's
house he would have it out with him.

Biffton was the only man who disturbed his solitude. Biffy was in full evening dress--an enormous
white carnation in his button-hole and a crush hat under his arm. He was booked for a "Stag,"
he said with a yawn, or he would stay and keep him company. Jack didn't want any company--certainly
not Biffy--most assuredly not any of the young fellows who had asked him about Gilbert's failure.
What he wanted was to be left alone until eleven o'clock, during which time he would get something
to eat.

Dinner over, he buried himself in a chair in the library and let his mind roam. Angry as he
was, Ruth's image still haunted him. How pretty she was--how gracefully she moved her arm as
she lifted the cups; and the way the hair waved about her temples; and the tones of her voice--and
dear Peter, so kind and thoughtful of him, so careful that he should be introduced to this
and that person; and Miss Felicia! What a great lady she was; and yet he was not a bit afraid
of her. What would they all think of him when the facts of his uncle's crime came to their
ears, and they MUST come sooner or later. What, too, would Peter think of him for breaking
out on his uncle, which he firmly intended to do as soon as the hour hand reached eleven? Nor
would he mince his words. That an outrage of this kind could be committed on an unsuspecting
man was bad enough, but that it should have taken place in his own uncle's office, bringing
into disrepute his father's and his own good name, was something he could not tolerate for
a moment. This he intended saying to his uncle in so many plain words; and so leaving our hero
with his soul on fire, his mind bent on inflammables, explosives, high-pressures--anything
in fact that once inserted under the solid body of the senior Breen would blow that gentleman
into space--we will betake ourselves to his palatial home. The dinner being an important one,
no expense had been spared.

All day long boys in white aprons had sprung from canvas-covered wagons, dived in Arthur Breen's
kitchen and dived out again after depositing various eatables, drinkables and cookables--among
them six pair of redheads, two saddles of mutton, besides such uncanny things as mushrooms,
truffles and the like, all of which had been turned over to the chef, who was expressly engaged
for the occasion, and whose white cap--to quote Parkins--"Gives a hair to the scullery which
reminded him more of 'ome than anything 'e 'ad seen since 'e left 'is lordship's service."

Upstairs more wonderful things had been done. The table of the sepulchral dining-room was trans
formed into a bed of tulips, the mantel a parterre of flowers, while the sideboard, its rear
packed with the family silver, was guarded by a row of bottles of various sizes, shapes and
colors; various degrees of cob webbed shabbiness, too--containing the priceless vintages which
the senior member of the firm of Breen & Co. intended to set before his friends.

Finally, as the dinner hour approached, all the gas jets were ablaze; not only the side lights
in the main hall, and the overhead lantern which had shed its rays on Peter's bald head, but
the huge glass chandelier hung in the middle of the satin-upholstered drawing room, as well
as the candelabra on the mantel with their imitation wax candles and brass wicks--every thing,
in fact, that could add to the brilliancy of the occasion.

All this, despite the orderly way in which the millionaire's house was run, had developed a
certain nervous anxiety in the host himself, the effect of which had not yet worn off, although
but a few minutes would elapse before the arrival of the guests. This was apparent in the rise
and fall of Breen's heels, as he seesawed back and forth on the hearth-rug in the satin-lined
drawing-room, with his coattails spread to the life less grate, and from the way he glanced
nervously at the mirror to see that his cravat was properly tied and that his collar did not
ride up in the back.

The only calm person in the house was the ex-widow. With the eyes of a major-general sweeping
the field on the eve of an important battle, she had taken in the disposition of the furniture,
the hang of the curtains and the placing of the cushions and lesser comforts. She had also
arranged with her own hands the masses of narcissus and jonquils on the mantels, and had selected
the exact shade of yellow tulips which centred the dining-room table. It was to be a "Gold-Mine
Dinner," so Arthur had told her, "and everything must be in harmony."

Then seeing Parkins, who had entered unexpectedly and caught her in the act (it is bad form
for a hostess to arrange flowers in some houses--the butler does that), she asked in an indifferent
tone: "And how many are we to have for dinner, Parkins?" She knew, of course, having spent
an hour over a diagram placing the guests.

"Fourteen, my lady."

"Fourteen!--really, quite a small affair." And with the air of one accustomed all her life
to banquets in palaces of state, she swept out of the room.

The only time she betrayed herself was just before the arrival of the guests, when her mind
reverted to her daughter.

"The Portmans are giving a ball next week, Arthur, and I want Corinne to go. Are you sure he
is coming?"

"Don't worry, Kitty, Portman's coming; and so are the Colonel, and Crossbin, and Hodges, and
the two Chicago directors, and Mason, and a lot more. Everybody's coming, I tell you. If Mukton
Lode doesn't sit up and take notice with a new lease of life after tonight, I'm a Dutchman.
Run, there's the bell."

The merciful Scribe will spare the reader the details incident upon the arrival of the several
guests. These dinners are all alike: the announcements by the butler; the passing of the cocktails
on a wine tray; the standing around until the last man has entered the drawing-room; the perfunctory
talk--the men who have met before hobnobbing instantly with each other, the host bearing the
brunt of the strangers; the saunter into the dining-room, the reading of cards, and the "Here
you are, Mr. Portman, right alongside Mr. Hodges. And Crossbin, you are down there somewhere";
the spreading of napkins and squaring of everybody's elbow as each man drops into his seat.

Neither will the reader be told of the various dishes or their garnishings. These pages have
so far been filled with little else beside eating and drinking, and with reason, too, for have
not all the great things in life been begun over some tea-table, carried on at a luncheon,
and completed between the soup and the cordials? Kings, diplomats and statesmen have long since
agreed that for baiting a trap there is nothing like a soup, an entree and a roast, the whole
moistened by a flagon of honest wine. The bait varies when the financier or promoter sets out
to catch a capitalist, just as it does when one sets out to catch a mouse, and yet the two
mammals are much alike--timid, one foot at a time, nosing about to find out if any of his friends
have had a nibble; scared at the least disturbing echo--then the fat, toothsome cheese looms
up (Breen's Madeira this time), and in they go.

But if fuller description of this special bait be omitted, there is no reason why that of the
baiters and the baited should be left out of the narrative.

Old Colonel Purviance, of the Chesapeake Club, for one--a big-paunched man who always wore,
summer and winter, a reasonably white waistcoat and a sleazy necktie; swore in a loud voice
and dropped his g's when he talked. "Bit 'em off," his friends said, as he did the end of his
cigars. He had, in honor of the occasion so contrived that his black coat and trousers matched
this time, while his shoestring tie had been replaced by a white cravat. But the waistcoat
was of the old pattern and the top button loose, as usual. The Colonel earned his living--and
a very comfortable one it was--by promoting various enterprises--some of them rather shady.
He had also a gift for both starting and maintaining a boom. Most of the Mukton stock owned
by the Southern contingent had been floated by him. Another of his accomplishments was his
ability to label correctly, with his eyes shut, any bottle of Madeira from anybody's cellar,
and to his credit, be it said, he never lied about the quality, be it good, bad or abominable.

Next to him sat Mason, from Chicago--a Westerner who had made his money in a sudden rise in
real estate, and who had moved to New York to spend it: an out-spoken, common-sense, plain
man, with yellow eyebrows, yellow head partly bald, and his red face blue specked with powder
marks due to a premature blast in his mining days. Mason couldn't tell the best Tiernan Madeira
from corner-grocery sherry, and preferred whiskey at any and all hours--and what was more,
never assumed for one instant that he could.

Then came Hodges, the immaculately dressed epicure--a pale, clean-shaven, eye-glassed, sterilized
kind of a man with a long neck and skinny fingers, who boasted of having twenty-one different
clarets stored away under his sidewalk which were served to ordinary guests, and five special
vintages which he kept under lock and key, and which were only uncorked for the elect, and
who invariably munched an olive before sampling the next wine. Then followed such lesser lights,
as Nixon, Leslie and the other guests.

A most exacting group of bons vivants, these. The host had realized it and had brought out
his best. Most of it, to be sure, had come from Beaver Street, something "rather dry, with
an excellent bouquet," the crafty salesman with gimlet eyes had said; but, then, most of the
old Madeira does come from Beaver Street, except Portman's, who has a fellow with a nose and
a palate hunting the auction rooms for that particular Sunset of 1834 which had lain in old
Mr. Grinnells cellar for twenty-two years; and that other of 1839, once possessed by Colonel
Purviance, a wine which had so sharpened the Colonel's taste that he was always uncomfortable
when dining outside of his club or away from the tables of one or two experts like himself.

These, then, were the palates to which Breen catered. Back of them lay their good-will and
good feeling; still back of them, again, their bank accounts and--another scoop in Mukton!
Most of the guests had had a hand in the last deal and they were ready to share in the next.
Although this particular dinner was supposed to be a celebration of the late victory, two others,
equally elaborate, had preceded it; both Crossbin and Hodges having entertained nearly this
same group of men at their own tables. That Breen, with his reputation for old Madeira and
his supposed acquaintance with the intricacies of a Maryland kitchen, would outclass them both,
had been whispered a dozen times since the receipt of his invitation, and he knew it. Hence
the alert boy, the chef in the white cap, and hence the seesawing on the hearth-rug.

"Like it, Crossbin?" asked Breen.

Parkins had just passed down the table with a dust covered bottle which he handled with the
care of a collector fingering a peachblow vase. The precious fluid had been poured into that
gentleman's glass and its contents were now within an inch of his nose.

The moment was too grave for instant reply; Mr. Crossbin was allowing the aroma to mount to
the innermost recesses of his nostrils. It had only been a few years since he had performed
this same trick with a gourd suspended from a nail in his father's back kitchen, overlooking
a field of growing corn; but that fact was not public property--not here in New York.

"Yes--smooth, and with something of the hills in it. Chateau Lamont, is it not, of '61?" It
was Chateau of something-or-other, and of some year, but Breen was too wise to correct him.
He supposed it was Chateau Lafitte--that is, he had instructed Parkins to serve that particular
wine and vintage.

"Either '61 or '63," replied Breen with the air of positive certainty. (How that boy in the
white apron, who had watched the boss paste on the labels, would have laughed had he been under
the table.)

Further down the cloth Hodges, the epicure, was giving his views as to the proper way of serving
truffles. A dish had just passed, with an underpinning of crust. Hodges's early life had qualified
him as an expert in cooking, as well as in wines: Ten years in a country store swapping sugar
for sausages and tea for butter and eggs; five more clerk in a Broadway cloth house, with varied
boarding-house experiences (boiled mutton twice a week, with pudding on Sundays); three years
junior partner, with a room over Delmonico's; then a rich wife and a directorship in a bank
(his father-in-law was the heaviest depositor); next, one year in Europe and home, as vice-president,
and at the present writing president of one of the certify-as-early-as-ten-o' clock-in-the-morning
kind of banks, at which Peter would so often laugh. With these experiences there came the usual
blooming and expanding--all the earlier life for gotten, really ignored. Soon the food of the
country became unbearable. Even the canvasbacks must feed on a certain kind of wild celery;
the oysters be dredged from a particular cove, and the terrapin drawn from their beds with
the Hodges' coat of arms cut in their backs before they would be allowed a place on the ex-clerk's
table.

It is no wonder, then, that everybody listened when the distinguished epicure launched out
on the proper way to both acquire and serve so rare and toothsome a morsel as a truffle.

"Mine come by every steamer," Hodges asserted in a positive tone--not to anybody in particular,
but with a sweep of the table to attract enough listeners to make it worthwhile for him to
proceed. "My man is aboard before the gang-plank is secure--gets my package from the chief
steward and is at my house with the truffles within an hour. Then I at once take proper care
of them. That is why my truffles have that peculiar flavor you spoke of, Mr. Portman, when
you last dined at my house. You remember, don't you?"

Portman nodded. He did not remember--not the truffles. He recalled some white port--but that
was because he had bought the balance of the lot himself.

"Where do they come from?" inquired Mason, the man from Chicago. He wanted to know and wasn't
afraid to ask.

"All through France. Mine are rooted near a little village in the Province of Perigord."

"What roots'em?"

"Hogs--trained hogs. You are familiar, of course, with the way they are secured?"

Mason--plain man as he was--wasn't familiar with anything remotely connected with the coralling
of truffles, and said so. Hodges talked on, his eye resting first on one and then another of
the guests, his voice increasing in volume whenever a fresh listener craned his neck, as if
the information was directed to him alone--a trick of Hodges' when he wanted an audience.

"And now a word of caution," he continued; "some thing that most of you may not know--always
root on a rainy day--sunshine spoils their flavor--makes them tough and leathery."

"Kind of hog got anything to do with the taste?" asked Mason in all sincerity. He was learning
New York ways--a new lesson each day, and intended to keep on, but not by keeping his mouth shut.

"Nothing whatever," replied Hodges. "They must never be allowed to bite them, of course. You
can wound a truffle as you can everything else."

Mason looked off into space and the Colonel bent his ear. Purviance's diet had been largely
drawn from his beloved Chesapeake, and "dug-up dead things"--as he called the subject under
discussion--didn't interest him. He wanted to laugh--came near it--then he suddenly remembered
how important a man Hodges might be and how necessary it was to give him air space in which
to float his pet balloons and so keep him well satisfied with himself.

Mason, the Chicago man, had no such scruples. He had twice as much money as Hodges, four times
his digestion and ten times his commonsense.

"Send that dish back here, Breen," Mason cried out in a clear voice--so loud that Parkins,
winged by the shot, retraced his steps. "I want to see what Mr. Hodges is talking about. Never
saw a truffle that I know of." Here he turned the bits of raw rubber over with his fork. "No.
Take it away. Guess I'll pass. Hog saw it first; he can have it."

Hodges's face flushed, then he joined in the laugh. The Chicago man was too valuable a would-be
subscriber to quarrel with. And, then, how impossible to expect a person brought up as Mason
had been to understand the ordinary refinements of civilization.

"Rough diamond, Mason--Good fellow. Backbone of our country," Hodges whispered to the Colonel,
who was sore from the strain of repressed hilarity. "A little coarse now and then--but that
comes of his early life, no doubt."

Hodges waited his chance and again launched out; this time it was upon the various kinds of
wines his cellar contained--their cost--who had approved of them--how impossible it was to
duplicate some of them, especially some Johannesburg of '74.

"Forty-two dollars a bottle--not pressed in the ordinary way--just the weight of the grapes
in the basket in which they are gathered in the vineyard, and what naturally drips through
is caught and put aside," etc.

Breen winced. First his truffles were criticised, and now his pet Johannesburg that Parkins
was pouring into special glasses--cooled to an exact temperature--part of a case, he explained
to Nixon, who sat on his right, that Count Mosenheim had sent to a friend here. Something must
be done to head Hodges off or there was no telling what might happen. The Madeira was the thing.
He knew that was all right, for Purviance had found it in Baltimore--part of a private cellar
belonging some time in the past to either the Swan or Thomas families--he could not remember which.

The redheads were now in order, with squares of fried hominy, and for the moment Hodges held
his peace. This was Nixon's opportunity, and he made the most of it. He had been born on the
eastern shore of Maryland and was brought up on canvasbacks, soft-shell crabs and terrapin--not
to mention clams and sheepshead. Nixon therefore launched out on the habits of the sacred bird--the
crimes committed by the swivel-gun in the hands of the marketmen, the consequent scarcity of
the game and the near approach of the time when the only rare specimens would be found in the
glass cases of the museums, ending his talk with a graphic description of the great wooden
platters of boiling-hot terrapin which were served to passengers crossing to Norfolk in the
old days. The servants would split off the hot shell--this was turned top side down, used as
a dish and filled with butter, pepper and salt, into which toothsome bits of the reptile, torn
out by the guests' forks, were dipped before being eaten.

The talk now caromed from birds, reptiles and fish to guns and tackles, and then to the sportsmen
who used them, and then to the millionaires who owned the largest shares in the ducking clubs,
and so on to the stock of the same, and finally to the one subject of the evening--the one
uppermost in everybody's thoughts which so far had not been touched upon--the Mukton Lode.
There was no question about the proper mechanism of the traps--the directors were attending
to that; the quality of the bait, too, seemed all that could be desired--that was Breen's part.
How many mice were nosing about was the question, and of the number how many would be inside
when the spring snapped?

The Colonel, after a nod of his head and a reassuring glance from his host, took full charge
of the field, soaring away with minute accounts of the last inspection of the mine. He told
how the "tailings" at Mukton City had panned out 30 per cent, to the ton--with two hundred
thousand tons in the dump thrown away until the new smelter was started and they could get
rid of the sulphides; of what Aetna Cobb's Crest had done and Beals Hollow and Morgan Creek--all
on the same ridge, and was about launching out on the future value of Mukton Lode when Mason
broke the silence by asking if any one present had heard of a mine somewhere in Nevada which
an Englishman had bought and which had panned out $1,200 to the ton the first week and not
a cent to the square mile ever afterward? The Chicago man was the most important mouse of the
lot, and the tone of his voice and his way of speaking seemed fraught with a purpose.

Breen leaned forward in rapt attention, and even Hodges and Portman (both of them were loaded
to the scuppers with Mukton) stopped talking.

"Slickest game I ever heard of," continued Mason. "Two men came into town--two poor prospectors,
remember--ran across the Englishman at the hotel--told the story of their claim: 'Take it or
leave it after you look it over,' they said. Didn't want but sixty thousand for it; that would
give them thirty thousand apiece, after which they'd quit and live on a ranch. No, they wouldn't
go with him to inspect the mine; there was the map. He couldn't miss it; man at the hotel would
drive him out there. There was, of course, a foot of snow on the ground, which was frozen hard,
but they had provided for that and had cut a lot of cord-wood, intending to stay till spring.
The Englishman could have the wood to thaw out the ground."

"The Englishman went and found everything as the two prospectors had said; thawed out the soil
in half a dozen places; scooped up the dirt and every shovelful panned out about twelve hundred
to the ton. Then he came back and paid the money; that was the last of it. Began to dig again
in the spring--and not a trace of anything."

"What was the matter?" asked Breen. So far his interest in mines had been centred on the stock.

"Oh, the same old swindle," said Mason, looking around the table, a grim smile on his face--"only
in a different way."

"Was it salted?" called out a man from the lower end of the table.

"Yes," replied Mason; "not the mine, but the cord-wood. The two poor prospectors had bored
auger holes in each stick, stuffed 'em full of gold dust and plugged the openings. It was the
ashes that panned out $1,200 to the ton."

Mason was roaring, as were one or two about him. Portman looked grave, and so did Breen. Nothing
of that kind had ever soiled their hands; everything with them was open and above-board. They
might start a rumor that the Lode had petered out, throw an avalanche of stock on the market,
knock it down ten points, freezing out the helpless (poor Gilbert had been one of them), buy
in what was offered and then declare an extra dividend, sending the stock skyward, but anything
so low as--"Oh, very reprehensible--scandalous in fact."

Hodges was so moved by the incident that he asked Breen if he would not bring back that Madeira
(it had been served now in the pipe-stem glasses which had been crossed in finger-bowls). This
he sipped slowly and thoughtfully, as if the enormity of the crime had quite appalled him.
Mason was no longer a "rough diamond," but an example of what a "Western training will sometimes
do for a man," he whispered under his breath to Crossbin.

With the departure of the last guest--one or two of them were a little unsteady; not Mason,
we may be sure--Jack, who had come home and was waiting upstairs in his room for the feast
to be over, squared his shoulders, threw up his chin and, like many another crusader bent on
straightening the affairs of the world, started out to confront his uncle. His visor was down,
his lance in rest, his banner unfurled, the scarf of the blessed damosel tied in double bow-knot
around his trusty right arm. Both knight and maid were unconscious of the scarf, and yet if
the truth be told it was Ruth's eyes that had swung him into battle. Now he was ready to fight;
to renounce the comforts of life and live on a crust rather than be party to the crimes that
were being daily committed under his very eyes!

His uncle was in the library, having just bowed out his last guest, when the boy strode in.
About him were squatty little tables holding the remnants of the aftermath of the feast--siphons
and decanters and the sample boxes of cigars--full to the lid when Parkins first passed them
(why fresh cigars out of a full box should have a better flavor than the same cigars from a
half-empty one has always been a mystery to the Scribe).

That the dinner had been a success gastronomically, socially and financially, was apparent
from the beatific boozy smile that pervaded Breen's face as he lay back in his easy-chair.
To disturb a reverie of this kind was as bad as riding rough-shod over some good father digesting
his first meal after Lent, but the boy's purpose was too lofty to be blunted by any such considerations.
Into the arena went his glove and out rang his challenge.

"What I have got to say to you, Uncle Arthur, breaks my heart, but you have got to listen to
me! I have waited until they were all gone to tell you."

Breen laid his glass on the table and straightened himself in his chair. His brain was reeling
from the wine he had taken and his hand unsteady, but he still had control of his arms and legs.

"Well, out with it! What's it all about, Jack?"

"I heard this afternoon that my friend Gilbert was ruined in our office. The presence of these
men to-night makes me believe it to be true. If it is true, I want to tell you that I'll never
enter the office again as long as I live!"

Breen's eyes flashed:

"You'll never enter!... What the devil is the matter with you, Jack!--are you drunk or crazy?"

"Neither! And I want to tell you, sir, too, that I won't be pointed out as having anything
to do with such a swindling concern as the Mukton Lode Company. You've stopped the work on
Gilbert's house--Mr., Morris told me so--you've--"

The older man sprang from his seat and lunged toward the boy.

"Stop it!" he cried. "Now--quick!"

"Yes--and you've just given a dinner to the very men who helped steal his money, and they sat
here and laughed about it! I heard them as I came in!" The boy's tears were choking him now.

"Didn't I tell you to stop, you idiot!" His fist was within an inch of Jack's nose: "Do you
want me to knock your head off? What the hell is it your business who I invite to dinner--and
what do you know about Mukton Lode? Now you go to bed, and damn quick, too! Parkins, put out
the lights!"

And so ended the great crusade with our knight unhorsed and floundering in the dust. Routed
by the powers of darkness, like many another gallant youth in the old chivalric days, his ideals
laughed at, his reforms flouted, his protests ignored--and this, too, before he could fairly
draw his sword or couch his lance.

CHAPTER XI

That Jack hardly closed his eyes that night, and that the first thing he did after opening
them the next morning was to fly to Peter for comfort and advice, goes without saying. Even
a sensible, well-balanced young man--and our Jack, to the Scribe's great regret, is none of
these--would have done this with his skin still smarting from an older man's verbal scorching--especially
a man like his uncle, provided, of course, he had a friend like Peter within reach. How much
more reasonable, therefore, to conclude that a man so quixotic as our young hero would seek
similar relief.

As to the correctness of the details of this verbal scorching, so minutely described in the
preceding chapter, should the reader ask how it is possible for the Scribe to set down in exact
order the goings-on around a dinner-table to which he was not invited, as well as the particulars
of a family row where only two persons participated--neither of whom was himself--and this,
too, in the dead of night, with the outside doors locked and the shades and curtains drawn--he
must plead guilty without leaving the prisoner's dock.

And yet he asks in all humility--is the play not enough?--or must he lift the back-drop and
bring into view the net-work of pulleys and lines, the tanks of moonlight gas and fake properties
of papier-mache that produce the illusion? As a compromise would it not be the better way after
this for him to play the Harlequin, popping in and out at the unexpected moment, helping the
plot here and there by a gesture, a whack, or a pirouette; hobnobbing with Peter or Miss Felicia,
and their friends; listening to Jack's and Ruth's talk, or following them at a distance, whenever
his presence might embarrass either them or the comedy?

This being agreed upon, we will leave our hero this bright morning--the one succeeding the
row with his uncle--at the door of Peter's bank, confident that Jack can take care of himself.

And the confidence is not misplaced. Only once did the boy's glance waver, and that was when
his eyes sought the window facing Peter's desk. Some egg other than Peter's was nesting on
the open ledger spread out on the Receiving Teller's desk--not an ostrich egg of a head at
all, but an evenly parted, well-combed, well-slicked brown wig, covering the careful pate of
one of the other clerks who, in the goodness of his heart, was filling Peter's place for the day.

Everybody being busy--too busy to answer questions outside of payments and deposits--Patrick,
the porter, must necessarily conduct the negotiations.

"No, sur; he's not down to-day--" was the ever-watchful Patrick's answer to Jack's anxious
inquiry. "His sister's come from the country and he takes a day off now and thin when she's
here. You'll find him up at his place in Fifteenth Street, I'm thinkin'."

Jack bit his lip. Here was another complication. Not to find Peter at the Bank meant a visit
to his rooms--on his holiday, too--and when he doubtless wished to be alone with Miss Felicia.
And yet how could he wait a moment longer? He himself had sent word to the office of Breen
& Co. that he would not be there that day--a thing he had never done before--nor did he intend
to go on the morrow--not until he knew where he stood. While his uncle had grossly misunderstood
him, and, for that matter, grossly insulted him, he had neither admitted nor denied the outrage
on Gilbert.

When he did--this question had only now begun to loom up--where would he go and what would
he do? There was but little money due him at the office--and none would come--until the next
month's pay--hardly enough, in any event, to take him back to his Maryland home, even if that
refuge were still open to him. What then would become of him? Peter was, in fact, his main
and only reliance. Peter he must see, and at once.

Not that he wavered or grew faint at heart when he thought of his defeat the night before.
He was only thinking of his exit and the way to make it. "Always take your leave like a gentleman,"
was one of his father's maxims. This he would try his best to accomplish.

Mrs. McGuffey, in white cap and snow-white apron, now that Miss Felicia had arrived, was the
medium of communication this time:

"Indeed, they are both in--this way, sir, and let me have your hat and coat."

It was a delightful party that greeted the boy. Peter was standing on the hearth-rug with his
back to the fire, his coat-tails hooked over his wrists. Miss Felicia sat by a small table
pretending to sew. Holker Morris was swallowed up in one of Peter's big easy-chairs, only the
top of his distinguished head visible, while a little chub of a man, gray-haired, spectacled
and plainly dressed, was seated behind him, the two talking in an undertone.

"Why, Breen!--why, my dear boy!--And you have a holiday, too? How did you know I was home?"
cried Peter, extending both hands in the joy of his greeting.

"I stopped at the Bank, sir."

"Did you?--and who told you?"

"The janitor, I suppose."

"Oh, the good Patrick! Well, well! Holker, you remember young Breen."

Holker did remember, for a wonder, and extended one hand to prove it, and Felicia--but the
boy was already bending over her, all his respect and admiration in his eyes. The little chub
of a man was now on his feet, standing in an attentive attitude, ready to take his cue from Peter.

"And now, my boy, turn this way, and let me introduce you to my very dear friend, Mr. Isaac Cohen."

A pudgy hand was thrust out and the spectacled little man, his eyes on the boy, said he was
glad to know any friend of Mr. Grayson, and resuming his seat continued his conversation in
still lower tones with the great architect.

Jack stood irresolute for an instant, not knowing whether to make some excuse for his evidently
inopportune visit and return later, or to keep his seat until the others had gone. Miss Felicia,
who had not taken her gaze from the lad since he entered the room, called him to her side.

"Now, tell me what you are all doing at home, and how your dear aunt is, and--Miss Corinne,
isn't it? And that very bright young fellow who came with you at Ruth's tea?"

It was the last subject that Jack wanted to discuss, but he stumbled through it as best he
could, and ended in hoping, in a halting tone, that Miss MacFarlane was well.

"Ruth! Oh, she is a darling! Didn't you think so?"

Jack blushed to the roots of his hair, but Miss Felicia's all-comprehensive glance never wavered.
This was the young man whom Ruth had been mysterious about. She intended to know how far the
affair had gone, and it would have been useless, she knew, for Jack to try to deceive her.

"All our Southern girls are lovely," he answered in all sincerity.

"And you like them better than the New York belles?"

"I don't know any."

"Then that means that you do."

"Do what?"

"Do like them better."

The boy thought for a moment.

"Yes, and Miss MacFarlane best of all; she is so--so--" the boy faltered--"so sincere, and
just the kind of girl you would trust with anything. Why, I told her all about myself before
I'd known her half an hour."

"Yes, she was greatly pleased." The match-making instinct was always uppermost in Miss Felicia's
moves, and then, again, this young man had possibilities, his uncle being rich and he being
his only nephew.

"Oh, then she told you!" The boy's heart gave a great leap. Perhaps, after all, Ruth had not
heard--at all events she did not despise him.

"No, I told her myself. The only thing that seemed to worry Ruth was that you had not told
her enough. If I remember right, she said you were very shy."

"And she did not say anything about--" Jack stopped. He had not intended to put the question
quite in this way, although he was still in doubt. Give this keen-eyed, white-haired old lady
but an inkling of what was uppermost in his mind and he knew she would have its every detail.

"About what?" Here Miss Felicia's eyes were suddenly diverted, and became fastened on the short
figure of Mr. Isaac Cohen, who had risen to his feet and stood talking in the most confidential
way with Morris--Peter listening intently. Such phrases as "Better make the columns of marble,"
from Morris, and, "Well, I will talk it over with the Rabbi," from the tailor, reached his
ears. Further relief came when Miss Felicia rose from her chair with her hand extended to Morris,
who was already taking leave of Peter and all danger was passed when host and hostess conducted
the tailor and the architect to the door; Morris bending over Miss Felicia's hand and kissing
it with the air of a courtier suddenly aroused by the appearance of royalty (he had been completely
immersed in Cohen's talk), and the tailor bowing to her on his way out without even so much
as touching the tips of her fingers.

"There, my dear Breen," said Peter, when he had adjusted his cravat before the glass and brushed
a few stray hairs over his temples, "that's a man it would do you an immense amount of good
to know; the kind of a man you call worthwhile. Not only does he speak three languages, Hebrew
being one of them, but he can talk on any subject from Greek temples to the raising of violets.
Morris thinks the world of him--So do I."

"Yes, I heard him say something about columns."

"Oh!--then you overheard! Yes, they are for the new synagogue that Morris is building. Cohen
is chairman of the committee."

"And he is the banker, too, I suppose?" rejoined Jack, in a tone which showed his lack of interest
in both man and subject. It was Peter's ear he wanted, and at once.

The old man's eyes twinkled: "Banker!--not a bit of it. He's a tailor, my dear boy--a most
delightful gentleman tailor, who works in the basement below us and who only yesterday pressed
the coat I have on." Here Peter surveyed himself with a comprehensive glance. "All the respectable
people in New York are not money mad." Then, seeing Jack's look of astonishment over the announcement,
he laid his hand on the boy's shoulder and said with a twinkle of his eye and a little laugh:
"Only one tailor--not nine--my boy, was required to make Mr. Cohen a man. And now about yourself.
Why are you not at work? Old fellows like me once in a while have a holiday--but young fellows!
Come!--What is it brings you here during business hours? Anything I can help you in?--anything
at home?" and Peter's eyes bored holes in the boy's brain.

Jack glanced at Miss Felicia, who was arranging the roses Morris had brought her, and then
said in a half whisper: "I have had a row with my uncle, sir. Maybe I had better come some
other day, when--"

"No--out with it! Row with your uncle, eh? Rows with one's uncles are too commonplace to get
mysterious over, and, then, we have no secrets. Ten chances to one I shall tell Felicia every
word you say after you've gone, so she might as well hear it at first-hand. Felicia, this young
fellow is so thin-skinned he is afraid you will laugh at him."

"Oh, he knows better. I have just been telling him how charming he must be to have won Miss
MacFarlane's good opinion," rejoined his sister as she moved her work-basket nearer her elbow.

And then, with mind at rest, now that he was sure Ruth had not heard, and with eyes again blazing
as his thoughts dwelt upon the outrage, he poured out his story, Miss Felicia listening intently,
a curious expression on her face, Peter grave and silent, his gaze now on the boy, now on the
hearth-rug on which he stood. Only once did a flash illumine his countenance; that was when
Jack reached that part of his narrative which told of the denunciation he had flung in his
uncle's face concerning the methods by which poor Gilbert had been ruined.

"And you dared tell your uncle that, you young firebrand?"

"Yes, Mr. Grayson, I had to; what else could I say? Don't you think it cruel to cheat like that?"

"And what did he say?" asked Peter.

"He would not listen--he swore at me--told me--well, he ordered me out of the room and had
the lights put out."

"And it served you right, you young dog! Well, upon my word! Here you are without a dollar
in the world except what your uncle pays you, and you fly off at a tangent and insult him in
his own house--and you his guest, remember. Well! Well! What are we coming to? Felicia, did
you ever hear of such a performance?"

Miss Felicia made no answer. She knew from her brother's tone that there was not a drop of
bitterness in any one of the words that fell from his lips; she had heard him talk that way
dozens of times before, when he was casting about for some means of letting the culprit down
the easier. She even detected a slight wrinkling of the corners of his mouth as the denunciation
rolled out.

Not so Jack: To him the end of the world had come. Peter was his last resort--that one so good
and so clear-headed had not flared up at once over the villainy was the severest blow of all.
Perhaps he WAS a firebrand; perhaps, after all, it was none of his business; perhaps--perhaps--now
that Ruth would not blame him, knew nothing, in fact, of the disgraceful episode, it would
have been better for him to have ignored the whole matter and taken Garry's advice.

"Then I have done wrong again, Mr. Grayson?" he said at last, in so pleading a tone that even
Miss Felicia's reserve was on the point of giving away.

"Yes, in the manner in which you acted. Your father wouldn't have lost his temper and called
people names. Gentlemen, my dear boy, don't do that sort of thing. They make up their minds
about what they want to do and then do it quietly, and, let me say, with a certain amount of
courtesy."

"Then, what must I do?" All the fight was out of the lad now.

"Why, go back to your desk in the office and your very delightful suite of rooms at your uncle's.
Tell him you are sorry you let your feelings get the best of you; then, when you have entirely
quieted down, you and I will put our heads together and see what can be done to improve matters.
And that, let me tell you, my dear boy, is going to be rather a difficult thing, for you see
you are rather particular as to what you should and should not do to earn your living." Peter's
wrinkles had now crept up his cheeks and were playing hide and seek with the twinkles in his
eyes. "Of course any kind of healthy work--such, for instance, as hauling a chain through a
swamp, carrying a level, prospecting for oil, or copper, or gold--all very respectable occupations
for some men--are quite impossible in your case. But we will think it out and find something
easier--something that won't soil your hands, and--"

"Please don't, Mr. Grayson," interrupted Jack. The boy had begun to see through the raillery
now. "I will do anything you want me to do."

Peter burst into a laugh and grabbed him by both shoulders: "Of course, my dear boy, you will
do anything except what you believe to be wrong. That's right--right as can be; nobody wants
you to do any different, and--"

The opening of a door leading into the hall caused Peter to stop in his harangue and turn his
head. Mrs. McGuffey was ushering in a young woman whose radiant face was like a burst of sunshine.
Peter strained his eyes and then sprang forward:

"Why, Ruth!"

There was no doubt about it! That young woman, her cheeks like two June peonies, her eyes dancing,
the daintiest and prettiest hat in the world on her head, was already half across the room
and close to Peter's rug before Jack could even realize that he and she were breathing the
same air.

"Oh! I just could not wait a minute longer!" she cried in a joyous tone. "I had such a good
time yesterday, dear aunt Felicia, and--Why!--it is you, Mr. Breen, and have you come to tell
aunty the same thing? Wasn't it lovely?"

Then Jack said that it was lovely, and that he hadn't come for any such purpose--then that
he had--and then Peter patted her hand and told her she was the prettiest thing he had ever
seen in all his life, and that he was going to throw overboard all his other sweethearts at
once and cleave to her alone; and Miss Felicia vowed that she was the life of the party; and
Jack devoured her with his eyes, his heart thumping away at high pressure; and so the moments
fled until the blithesome young girl, saying she had not a minute to spare, as she had to meet
her father, who would not wait, readjusted her wraps, kissed Miss Felicia on both cheeks, sent
another flying through the air toward Peter from the tips of her fingers, and with Jack as
escort--he also had to see a friend who would not wait a minute--danced out of the room and
so on down to the street.

The Scribe will not follow them very far in their walk uptown. Both were very happy, Jack because
the scandal he had been dreading, since he had last looked into her eyes, had escaped her ears,
and Ruth because of all the young men she had met in her brief sojourn in New York this young
Mr. Breen treated her with most consideration.

While the two were making their way through the crowded streets, Jack helping her over the
crossings, picking out the drier spots for her dainty feet to step upon, shielding her from
the polluting touch of the passing throng, Miss Felicia had resumed her sewing--it was a bit
of lace that needed a stitch here and there--and Peter, dragging a chair before the fire, had
thrown himself into its depths, his long, thin white fingers open fan-like to its blaze.

"You are just wasting your time, Peter, over that young man," Miss Felicia said at last, snipping
the end of a thread with her scissors. "Better buy him a guitar with a broad blue ribbon and
start him off troubadouring, or, better still, put him into a suit of tin armor and give him
a lance. He doesn't belong to this world. It's just as well Ruth did not hear that rigmarole.
Charming manners, I admit--lovely, sitting on a cushion looking up into some young girl's eyes,
but he will never make his way here with those notions. Why he should want to anger his uncle,
who is certainly most kind to him, is past finding out. He's stupid, that's what he is--just
stupid!"--to break with your bread and butter and to defy those who could be of service to
you being an unpardonable sin with Miss Felicia. No, he would not do at all for Ruth.

Peter settled himself deeper in his chair and studied the cheery blaze between his outspread
fingers.

"That's the very thing will save him, Felicia."

"What--his manners?"

"No--his adorable stupidity. I grant you he's fighting windmills, but, then, my dear, don't
forget that he's FIGHTING--that's something."

"But they are only windmills, and, more extraordinary still, this one is grinding corn to keep
him from starving," and she folded up her sewing preparatory to leaving the room.

Peter's fingers closed tight: "I'm not so sure of that," he answered gravely.

Miss Felicia had risen from her seat and was now bending over the back of his chair, her spare
sharp elbows resting on its edge, her two hands clasping his cheeks.

"And are you really going to add this stupid boy to your string, you goose of a Peter?" she
asked in a bantering tone, as her fingers caressed his temples. "Don't forget Mosenthal and
little Perkins, and the waiter you brought home and fed for a week, and sent away in your best
overcoat, which he pawned the next day; or the two boys at college. Aren't you ever going to
learn?" and she leaned forward and kissed the top of his bald head.

Peter's only reply was to reach up and smooth her jewelled fingers with his own. He remembered
them all; there was an excuse, of course, he reminded her, for his action in each and every
case. But for him Mosenthal--really a great violinist--would have starved, little Perkins would
have been sent to the reformatory, and the waiter to the dogs. That none of them, except the
two college boys, had ever thanked him for his assistance--a fact well known to Miss Felicia--never
once crossed his mind--wouldn't have made any difference if it had.

"But this young Breen is worth saving, Felicia," he answered at last.

"From what--the penitentiary?" she laughed--this time with a slight note of anger in her voice.

"No, you foolish thing--much worse."

"From what, then?"

"From himself."

Long after his sister had left the room Peter kept his seat by the fire, his eyes gazing into
the slumbering coals. His holiday had been a happy one until Jack's entrance: Morris had come
to an early breakfast and had then run down and dragged up Cohen so that he could talk with
him in comfort and away from the smell of the tailor's goose and the noise of the opening and
shutting of the shop door; Miss Felicia had summoned all her good humor and patience (she did
not always approve of Peter's acquaintances--the little tailor being one), and had received
Cohen as she would have done a savant from another country--one whose personal appearance belied
his intellect but who on no account must be made aware of that fact, and Peter himself had
spent the hour before and after breakfast--especially the hour after, when the Bank always
claimed him--in pulling out and putting back one book after another from the shelves of his
small library, reading a page here and a line there, the lights and shadows that crossed his
eager, absorbed face, an index of his enjoyment.

All this had been spoiled by a wild, untamed colt of a boy whom he could not help liking in
spite of his peculiarities.

And yet, was his sister not right? Why bother himself any more about a man so explosive and
so tactless--and he WAS a man, so far as years and stature went, who, no matter what he might
attempt for his advancement, would as surely topple it over as lie would a house of cards.
That the boy's ideals were high, and his sincerity beyond question, was true, but what use
would these qualities be to him if he lacked the common-sense to put them into practice?

All this he told to the fire--first to one little heap of coals--then another--snuggling together--and
then to the big back-log scarred all over in its fight to keep everybody warm and happy.

Suddenly his round, glistening head ceased bobbing back and forth; his lips, which had talked
incessantly without a sound falling from them, straightened; his gesticulating fingers tightened
into a hard knot and the old fellow rose from his easy-chair. He had made up his mind.

Then began a search through his desk in and out of the pigeon-holes, under a heap of letters--most
of them unanswered; beneath a package tied with tape, until his eyes fell upon an envelope
sealed with wax, in which was embedded the crest of the ancestors of the young gentleman whose
future had so absorbed his thoughts. It was Mrs. Breen's acceptance of Miss Felicia's invitation
to Miss MacFarlane's tea.

"Ah, here it is! Now I'll find the number--yes, 864--I thought it was a "4"--but I didn't want
to make any mistake."

This done, and the note with the number and street of Jack's uncle's house spread out before
him, Peter squared his elbows, took a sheet of paper from a drawer, covered it with half a
dozen lines beginning "My dear Breen--" enclosed it in an envelope and addressed it to "Mr.
John Breen, care of Arthur Breen, Esq.," etc. This complete, he affixed the stamp in the upper
left-hand corner, and with the letter fast in his hand disappeared in his bedroom, from which
he emerged ten minutes later in full walking costume, even to his buckskin gloves and shiny
high hat, not to mention a brand-new silk scarf held in place by his diamond tear-drop, the
two in high relief above the lapels of his tightly buttoned surtout.

"No, Mrs. McGuffey," he said with a cheery smile as he passed out of the door (she had caught
sight of the letter and had stretched out her hand)--"No--I am going for a walk, and I'll mail
it myself."

CHAPTER XII

Whatever the function--whether it was a cosey dinner for the congenial few, a crowded reception
for the uncongenial many, or a coming-out party for some one of the eager-expectant buds just
bursting into bloom--most of whom he had known from babyhood--Peter was always ready with his
"Of course I'll come--" or "Nothing would delight me more--" or the formal "Mr. Grayson accepts
with great pleasure," etc., unless the event should fall upon a Saturday night; then there
was certain to be a prompt refusal.

Even Miss Felicia recognized this unbreakable engagement and made her plans accordingly. So
did good Mrs. McGuffey, who selected this night for her own social outings; and so did most
of his intimate friends who were familiar with his habits.

On any other night you might, or you might not, find Peter at home, dependent upon his various
engagements, but if you really wanted to get hold of his hand, or his ear, or the whole or
any other part of his delightful body, and if by any mischance you happened to select a Saturday
night for your purpose, you must search for him at the Century. To spend this one evening at
his favorite club had been his custom for years--ever since he had been elected to full membership--a
date so far back in the dim past that the oldest habitue had to search the records to make
sure of the year, and this custom he still regularly kept up.

That the quaint old club-house was but a stone's throw from his own quarters in Fifteenth Street
made no difference; he would willingly have tramped to Murray Hill and beyond--even as far
as the big reservoir, had the younger and more progressive element among the members picked
the institution up bodily and moved it that far--as later on they did.

Not that he favored any such innovation: "Move up-town! Why, my dear sir!" he protested, when
the subject was first mentioned, "is there nothing in the polish of these old tables and chairs,
rubbed bright by the elbows of countless good fellows, that appeals to you? Do you think any
modern varnish can replace it? Here I have sat for thirty years or more, and--please God!--here
I want to continue to sit."

He was at his own small table in the front room overlooking the street when he spoke--his by
right of long use, as it was also of Morris, MacFarlane, Wright, old Partridge the painter,
and Knight the sculptor. For years this group of Centurions, after circling the rooms on meeting
nights, criticising the pictures and helping themselves to the punch, had dropped into these
same seats by the side of Peter.

And these were not the only chairs tacitly recognized as carrying special privileges by reason
of long usage. Over in the corner between the two rooms could be found Bayard Taylor's chair--his
for years, from which he dispensed wisdom, adventure and raillery to a listening coterie--King,
MacDonough and Collins among them, while near the stairs, his great shaggy head glistening
in the overhead light, Parke Godwin held court, with Sterling, Martin and Porter, to say nothing
of still older habitues who in the years of their membership were as much a part of the fittings
of the club as the smoke-begrimed portraits which lined its walls.

On this Saturday night he had stepped into the clubhouse with more than his usual briskness.
Sweeping a comprehensive glance around as he entered, as if looking for some one in the hall,
he slipped off his overcoat and hat and handed both to the negro servant in charge of the cloak-room.

"George."

"Yes, Mr. Grayson."

"If anybody inquires for me you will find me either on this floor or in the library above.
Don't forget, and don't make any mistake.

"No, suh--ain't goin' to be no mistake."

This done, the old gentleman moved to the mirror, and gave a sidelong glance at his perfectly
appointed person--he had been dining at the Portmans', had left the table early, and was in
full evening dress.

The inspection proved that the points of his collar wanted straightening the thousandth part
of an inch, and that his sparse gray locks needed combing a wee bit further toward his cheek
bones. These, with a certain rebellious fold in his necktie, having been brought into place,
the guardian of the Exeter entered the crowded room, picked a magazine from the shelves and
dropped into his accustomed seat.

Holker Morris and Lagarge now strolled in and drawing up to a small table adjoining Peter's
touched a tiny bell. This answered, and the order given, the two renewed a conversation which
had evidently been begun outside, and which was of so absorbing a character that for a moment
Peter's face, half hidden by his book, was unnoticed.

"Oh!--that's you, Methusaleh, is it!" cried Morris at last. "Move over--have something?"

Peter looked up smiling: "Not now, Holker. I will later."

Morris kept on talking. Lagarge, his companion--a thin, cadaverous-looking man with a big head
and the general air of having been carved out of an old root--a great expert in ceramics--listening
intently, bobbing his head in toy-mandarin fashion whenever one of Holker's iconoclasms cleared
the air.

"Suppose they did pay thirty thousand dollars for it," Holker insisted, slapping his knee with
his outspread palm. "That makes the picture no better and no worse. If it was mine, and I could
afford it, I would sell it to anybody who loved it for thirty cents rather than sell it to
a man who didn't, for thirty millions. When Troyon painted it he put his soul into it, and
you can no more tack a price to that than you can stick an auction card on a summer cloud,
or appraise the perfume from a rose garden. It has no money value, Legarge, and never will
have. You might as well list sunsets on the Stock Exchange."

"But Troyon had to live, Holker," chimed in Harrington, who, with the freedom accorded every
member of the club--one of its greatest charms--had just joined the group and sat listening.

"Yes," rejoined Morris, a quizzjeal expression crossing his face--"that was the curse of it.
He was born a man and had a stomach instead of being born a god without one. As to living--he
didn't really live--no great painter really lives until he is dead. And that's the way it should
be--they would never have become immortal with a box full of bonds among their assets. They
would have stopped work. Now they can rest in their graves with the consciousness that they
have done their level best."

"There is one thing would lift him out of it, or ought to," remarked Harrington, with a glance
around the circle. "I am, of course, speaking of Troyon."

"What?" asked Morris.

"The news that Roberts paid thirty thousand dollars for a picture for which the painter was
glad to get three thousand francs," a reply which brought a roar from the group, Morris joining
in heartily.

The circle had now widened to the filling of a dozen chairs, Morris's way of putting things
being one of the features of club nights, he, as usual, dominating the talk, calling out "Period"--his
way of notifying some speaker to come to a full stop, whenever he broke away from the facts
and began soaring into hyperbolics--Morgan, Harrington and the others laughing in unison at
his sallies.

The clouds of tobacco smoke grew thicker. The hum of conversation louder; especially at an
adjoining table where one lean old Academician in a velvet skull cap was discussing the new
impressionistic craze which had just begun to show itself in the work of the younger men. This
had gone on for some minutes when the old man turned upon them savagely and began ridiculing
the new departure as a cloak to hide poor drawing, an outspoken young painter asserting in
their defence, that any technique was helpful if it would kill off the snuff-box school in
which the man under the skull cap held first place.

Morris had lent an ear to the discussion and again took up the cudgels.

"You young fellows are right," he cried, twisting his body toward their table. The realists
have had their day; they work a picture to death; all of them. If you did but know it, it really
takes two men to paint a great picture--one to do the work and the other to kill him when he
has done enough."

"Pity some of your murderers, Holker, didn't start before they stretched their canvases," laughed
Harrington.

And so the hours sped on.

All this time Peter had been listening with one ear wide open--the one nearest the door--for
any sound in that direction. French masterpieces Impressionism and the rest of it did not interest
him to-night. Something else was stirring him--something he had been hugging to his heart all day.

Only the big and little coals in his own fireplace in Fifteenth Street, and perhaps the great
back-log, beside himself, knew the cause. He had not taken Miss Felicia into his confidence--that
would never have done--might, indeed, have spoilt everything. Even when he had risen from Morris's
coterie to greet Henry MacFarlane--Ruth's father--his intimate friend for years, and who answered
his hand-shake with--"Well, you old rascal--what makes you look so happy?--anybody left you
a million?"--even then he gave no inkling of the amount of bottled sunshine he was at the precise
moment carrying inside his well-groomed body, except to remark with all his twinkles and wrinkles
scampering loose:

"Seeing you, Henry--" an answer which, while it only excited derision and a sly thrust of his
thumb into Peter's ribs, was nevertheless literally true if the distinguished engineer did
but know it.

It was only when the hours dragged on and his oft-consulted watch marked ten o'clock that the
merry wrinkles began to straighten and the eyes to wander.

When an additional ten minutes had ticked themselves out, and then a five and then a ten more,
the old fellow became so nervous that he began to make a tour of the club-house, even ascending
the stairs, searching the library and dining-room, scanning each group and solitary individual
he passed, until, thoroughly discouraged, he regained his seat only to press a bell lying among
some half-empty glasses. The summoned waiter listened attentively, his head bent low to catch
the whispered order, and then disappeared noiselessly in the direction of the front door, Peter's
fingers meanwhile beating an impatient staccato on the arm of his chair.

Nothing resulting from this experiment he at last gave up all hope and again sought MacFarlane
who was trying to pound into the head of a brother engineer some new theory of spontaneous
explosions.

Hardly had he drawn up a chair to listen--he was a better listener to-night, somehow, than
a talker, when a hand was laid on his shoulder, and looking up, he saw Jack bending over him.

With a little cry of joy Peter sprang to his feet, both palms outstretched: "Oh!--you're here
at last! Didn't I say nine o'clock, my dear boy, or am I wrong? Well, so you are here it's
all right." Then with face aglow he turned to MacFarlane: "Henry, here's a young fellow you
ought to know; his name's John Breen, and he's from your State."

The engineer stopped short in his talk and absorbed Jack from his neatly brushed hair, worn
long at the back of his neck, to his well-shod feet, and held out his hand.

"From Maryland? So am I; I was raised down in Prince George County. Glad to know you. Are you
any connection of the Breens of Ann Arundle?"

"Yes, sir--all my people came from Ann Arundle. My father was Judge Breen," answered Jack with
embarrassment. He had not yet become accustomed to the novelty of the scene around him.

"Now I know just where you belong. My father and yours were friends. I have often heard him
speak of Judge Breen. And did you not meet my daughter at Miss Grayson's the other day? She
told me she had met a Mr. Breen from our part of the country."

Jack's eyes danced. Was this what Peter had invited him to the club for? Now it was all clear.
And then again he had not said a word about his being in the Street, or connected with it in
any way. Was there ever such a good Peter?

"Oh, yes, sir!--and I hope she is very well."

The engineer said she was extremely well, never better in her life, and that he was delighted
to meet a son of his old friend--then, turning to the others, immediately forgot Jack's existence,
and for the time being his daughter, in the discussion still going on around him.

The young fellow settled himself in his seat and looked about him--at the smoke-stained ceiling,
the old portraits and quaint fittings and furniture--more particularly at the men. He would
have liked to talk to Ruth's father a little longer, but he felt dazed and ill at ease--out
of his element, somehow--although he remembered the same kind of people at his father's house,
except that they wore different clothes.

But Peter did not leave him long in meditation. There were other surprises for him upstairs,
in the small dining-room opening out of the library, where a long table was spread with eatables
and drinkables--salads, baby sausages, escaloped oysters, devilled crabs and other dishes dear
to old and new members. Here men were met standing in groups, their plates in their hands,
or seated at the smaller tables, when a siphon and a beer bottle, or a mug of Bass would be
added to their comfort.

It was there the Scribe met him for the second time, my first being the Morris dinner, when
he sat within speaking distance. I had heard of him, of course, as Peter's new protege--indeed,
the old fellow had talked of nothing else, and so I was glad to renew the acquaintance. I found
him to be like all other young fellows of his class--I had lived among his people, and knew--rather
shy, with a certain deferential air toward older people--but with the composure belonging to
unconscious youth--no fidgeting or fussing--modest, unassertive--his big brown eyes under their
heavy lashes studying everything about him, his face brightening when you addressed him. I
discovered, too, a certain indefinable charm which won me to him at once. Perhaps it was his
youth; perhaps it was a certain honest directness, together with a total lack of all affectation
that appealed to me, but certain it is that not many minutes had passed before I saw why Peter
liked him, and I saw, too, why he liked Peter.

When I asked him--we had found three empty seats at a table--what impressed him most in the
club, it being his first visit, he answered in his simple, direct way, that he thought it was
the note of good-fellowship everywhere apparent, the men greeting each other as if they really
meant it. Another feature was the dress and faces of the members--especially the authors, to
whom Peter had introduced him, whose books he had read, and whose personalities he had heard
discussed, and who, to his astonishment, had turned out to be shabby-looking old fellows who
smoked and drank, or played chess, like other ordinary mortals, and without pretence of any
kind so far as he could detect.

"Just like one big family, isn't it, Mr. Grayson?" the boy said. "Don't you two gentlemen love
to come here?"

"Yes."

"They don't look like very rich men."

"They're not. Now and then a camel crawls through but it is a tight squeeze," remarked Peter
arching his gray, bushy eyebrows, a smile hovering about his lips.

The boy laughed: "Well, then, how did they get here?"

"Principally because they lead decent lives, are not puffed up with conceit, have creative
brains and put them to some honest use," answered Peter.

The boy looked away for a moment and remarked quietly that about everybody he knew would fail
in one or more of these qualifications. Then he added:

"And now tell me, Mr. Grayson, what most of them do--that gentleman, for instance, who is talking
to the old man in the velvet cap."

"That is General Norton, one of our most distinguished engineers. He is Consulting Engineer
in the Croton Aqueduct Department, and his opinion is sought all over the country. He started
life as a tow-boy on the Erie Canal, and when he was your age he was keeping tally of dump-cars
from a cut on the Pennsylvania Railroad."

Jack looked at the General in wonderment, but he was too much interested in the other persons
about him to pursue the inquiry any further.

"And the man next to him--the one with his hand to his head?"

"I don't recall him, but the Major may."

"That is Professor Hastings of Yale," I replied--"perhaps the most eminent chemist in this
or any other country."

"And what did he do when he was a boy?" asked young Breen.

"Made pills, I expect, and washed out test tubes and retorts," interrupted Peter, with a look
on his face as if the poor professor were more to be pitied than commended.

"Did any of them dig?" asked the boy.

"What kind of digging?" inquired Peter.

"Well, the kind you spoke of the night you came to see me."

"Oh, with their hands?" cried Peter with a laugh. "Well, now, let me see--" and his glance
roved about the room. "There is Mr. Schlessinger, the Egyptologist, but of course he was after
mummies, not dirt; and then there is--yes--that sun-burned young fellow of forty, talking to
Mr. Eastman Johnson; he has been at work in Yucatan looking for Toltec ruins, because he told
me his experience only a few nights ago; but then, of course, that can hardly be said to be--Oh!--now
I have it. You see that tall man with side-whiskers, looking like a young bank president--my
kind--my boy--well, he started life with a pick and shovel. The steel point of the pick if
I remember rightly, turned up a nugget of gold that made him rich, but he DUG all the same,
and he may again some day--you can't tell."

It had all been a delightful experience for Jack and his face showed it, but it was not until
after I left that the story of why he had come late was told. He had started several times
to explain but the constant interruption of members anxious to shake Peter's hand, had always
prevented.

"I haven't apologized for being late, sir," Jack had said at last. "It was long after ten,
I am afraid, but I could not help it."

"No; what was the matter?"

"I didn't get the letter until half an hour before I reached here."

"Why, I sent it to your uncle's house, and mailed it myself, just after you had gone out with
Miss MacFarlane."

"Yes, sir; but I am not at my uncle's house any more. I am staying with Garry Minott in his
rooms; I have the sofa."

Peter gave a low whistle.

"And you have given up your desk at the office as well?"

"Yes, sir."

"Bless my soul, my boy! And what are you going to do now?"

"I don't know; but I will not go on as I have been doing. I can't, Mr. Grayson, and you must
not ask it. I would rather sweep the streets. I have just seen poor Charley Gilbert and Mrs.
Gilbert. He has not a dollar in the world, and is going West, he tells me."

Peter reflected for a moment. It was all he could do to hide his delight.

"And what do your people say?"

"My aunt says I am an idiot, and Corinne won't speak to me."

"And your uncle?"

"Nothing, to me. He told Garry that if I didn't come back in three days I should never enter
his house or his office again."

"But you are going back? Are you not?"

"No,--never. Not if I starve!"

Peter's eyes were twinkling when he related the conversation to me the next day.

"I could have hugged him, Major," he said, when he finished, "and I would if we had not been
at the club."

CHAPTER XIII

The Scribe is quite positive that had you only heard about it as he had, even with the details
elaborated, not only by Peter, who was conservatism itself in his every statement, but by Miss
Felicia as well--who certainly ought to have known--you would not have believed it possible
until you had seen it. Even then you would have had to drop into one of Miss Felicia's cretonne-upholstered
chairs--big easy-chairs that fitted into every hollow and bone in your back--looked the length
of the uneven porch, run your astonished eye down the damp, water-soaked wooden steps to the
moist brick pavement below, and so on to the beds of crocuses blooming beneath the clustering
palms and orange trees, before you could realize (in spite of the drifting snow heaped up on
the door-steps of her house outside--some of it still on your shoes) that you were in Miss
Felicia's tropical garden, attached to Miss Felicia's Geneseo house, and not in the back yard
of some old home in the far-off sunny South.

It was an old story, of course, to Peter, who had the easy-chair beside me, and so it was to
Morris, who had helped Miss Felicia carry out so Utopian a scheme, but it had come to me as
a complete surprise, and I was still wide-eyed and incredulous.

"And what keeps out the cold?" I asked Morris, who was lying back blowing rings into the summer
night, the glow of an overhead lantern lighting up his handsome face.

"Glass," he laughed.

"Where?"

"There, just above the vines, my dear Major," interrupted Miss Felicia, pointing upward. "Come
and let me show you my frog pond--" and away we went along the brick paths, bordered with pots
of flowers, to a tiny lake covered with lily-pads and circled by water-plants.

"I did not want a greenhouse--I wanted a back yard," she continued, "and I just would have
it. Holker sent his men up, and on three sides we built a wall that looked a hundred years
old--but it is not five--and roofed it over with glass, and just where you see the little flight
of stairs is the heat. That old arbor in the corner has been here ever since I was a child,
and so have the syringa bushes and the green box next the wall. I wanted them all the year
round--not just for three or four months in the year--and that witch Holker said he could do
it, and he has. Half the weddings in town have been begun right on that bench, and when the
lanterns are lighted and the fountain turned on outside, no gentleman ever escapes. You and
Peter are immune, so I sha'n't waste any of my precious ammunition on you. And now what will
you wear in your button-hole--a gardenia, or some violets? Ruth will be down in a minute, and
you must look your prettiest."

But if the frog pond, damp porch and old-fashioned garden had come as a surprise, what shall
I say of the rest of Miss Felicia's house which I am now about to inspect under Peter's guidance.

"Here, come along," he cried, slipping his arm through mine. "You have had enough of the garden,
for between you and me, my dear Major"--here he looked askance at Miss Felicia--"I think it
an admirable place in which to take cold, and that's why--" and he passed his hand over his
scalp--"I always insist on wearing my hat when I walk here. Mere question of imagination, perhaps,
but old fellows like you and me should take no chances--" and he laughed heartily.

"This room was my father's," continued Peter. "The bookcases have still some of the volumes
he loved; he liked the low ceiling and the big fireplace, and always wrote here--it was his
library, really. There opens the old drawing-room and next to it is Felicia's den, where she
concocts most of her deviltry, and the dining-room beyond--and that's all there is on this
floor, except the kitchen, which you'll hear from later."

And as Peter rattled on, telling me the history of this and that piece of old furniture, or
portrait, or queer clock, my eyes were absorbing the air of cosey comfort that permeated every
corner of the several rooms. Everything had the air of being used. In the library the chairs
were of leather, stretched into saggy folds by many tired backs; the wide, high fender fronting
the hearth, though polished so that you could see your face in it, showed the marks of many
a drying shoe, while on the bricks framing the fireplace could still be seen the scratchings
of countless matches.

The drawing-room, too--although, as in all houses of its class and period, a thing of gilt
frames, high mirrors and stiff furniture--was softened by heaps of cushions, low stools and
soothing arm-chairs, while Miss Felicia's own particular room was so veritable a symphony in
chintz, white paint and old mahogany, with cubby-holes crammed with knickknacks, its walls
hung with rare etchings; pots of flowers everywhere and the shelves and mantels crowded with
photographs of princes, ambassadors, grand dukes, grand ladies, flossy-headed children, chubby-cheeked
babies (all souvenirs of her varied and busy life), that it was some minutes before I could
throw myself into one of her heavenly arm-chairs, there to be rested as I had never been before,
and never expect to be again.

It being Peter's winter holiday, he and Morris had stopped over on their way down from Buffalo,
where Holker had spoken at a public dinner. The other present and expected guests were Ruth
MacFarlane, who was already upstairs; her father, Henry MacFarlane, who was to arrive by the
next train, and last and by no means lest, his confidential clerk, Mr. John Breen, now two
years older and, it is to be hoped, with considerable more common-sense than when he chucked
himself neck and heels out into the cold world. Whether the expected arrival of this young
gentleman had anything to do with the length of time it took Ruth to dress, the Scribe knoweth
not. There is no counting upon the whims and vagaries of even the average young woman of the
day, and as Ruth was a long way above that medium grade, and with positive ideas of her own
as to whom she liked and whom she did not like, and was, besides, a most discreet and close-mouthed
young person, it will be just as well for us to watch the game of battledoor and shuttlecock
still being played between Jack and herself, before we arrive at any fixed conclusions.

Any known and admitted facts connected with either one of the contestants are, however, in
order, and so while we are waiting for old Moggins, who drives the village 'bus, and who has
been charged by Miss Felicia on no account to omit bringing in his next load a certain straight,
bronzed-cheeked, well-set-up young man with a springy step, accompanied by a middle-aged gentleman
who looked like a soldier, and deliver them both with their attendant baggage at her snow-banked
door, any data regarding this same young man's movements since the night Peter wanted to hug
him for leaving his uncle's service, cannot fail to be of interest.

To begin then with the day on which Jack, with Frederick, the second man's assistance, packed
his belongings and accepted Garry's invitation to make a bed of his lounge.

The kind-hearted Frederick knew what it was to lose a place, and so his sympathies had been
all the more keen. Parkins's nose, on the contrary, had risen a full degree and stood at an
angle of 45 degrees, for he had not only heard the ultimatum of his employer, but was rather
pleased with the result. As for the others, no one ever believed the boy really meant it, and
everybody--even the maids and the high-priced chef--fully expected Jack would turn prodigal
as soon as his diet of husks had whetted his appetite for dishes more nourishing and more toothsome.
But no one of them took account of the quality of the blood that ran in the young man's veins.

It was scheming Peter who saved the day.

"Put that young fellow to work, Henry," he had said to MacFarlane the morning after the three
had met at the Century Club.

"What does he know, Peter?"

"Nothing, except to speak the truth."

And thus it had come to pass that within twenty-four hours thereafter the boy had shaken the
dust of New York from his feet--even to resigning from the Magnolia, and a day later was found
bending over a pine desk knocked together by a hammer and some ten-penny nails in a six-by-nine
shanty, the whole situated at the mouth of a tunnel half a mile from Corklesville, where he
was at work on the pay-roll of the preceding week.

Many things had helped in deciding him to take the proffered place. First, Peter had wanted
it; second, his uncle did not want it, Corinne and his aunt being furious that he should go
to work like a common laborer, or--as Garry had put it--"a shovel-spanked dago." Third, Ruth
was within calling distance, and that in itself meant Heaven. Once installed, however, he had
risen steadily, both in MacFarlane's estimation and in the estimation of his fellow-workers;
especially the young engineers who were helping his Chief in the difficult task before him.
Other important changes had also taken place in the two years: his body had strengthened, his
face had grown graver, his views of life had broadened and, best of all, his mind was at rest.
Of one thing he was sure--no confiding young Gilberts would be fleeced in his present occupation--not
if he knew anything about it.

Moreover, the outdoor life which he had so longed for was his again. On Saturday afternoons
and Sundays he tramped the hills, or spent hours rowing on the river. His employer's villa
was also always open to him--a privilege not granted to the others in the working force. The
old tie of family was the sesame. Judge Breen's son was, both by blood and training, the social
equal of any man, and although the distinguished engineer, being well born himself, seldom
set store on such things, he recognized his obligation in Jack's case and sought the first
opportunity to tell him so.

"You will find a great change in your surroundings, Mr. Breen," he had said. "The little hotel
where you will have to put up is rather rough and uncomfortable, but you are always welcome
at my home, and this I mean, and I hope you will understand it that way without my mentioning
it again."

The boy's heart leaped to his throat as he listened, and a dozen additional times that day
his eyes had rested on the clump of trees which shaded the roof sheltering Ruth.

That the exclusive Miss Grayson should now have invited him to pass some days at her home had
brought with it a thrill of greater delight. Her opinion of the boy had changed somewhat. His
willingness to put up with the discomforts of the village inn--"a truly dreadful place," to
quote one of Miss Felicia's own letters--and to continue to put up with them for more than
two years, while losing nothing of his good-humor and good manners, had shaken her belief in
the troubadour and tin-armor theory, although nothing in Jack's surroundings or in his prospects
for the future fitted him, so far as she could see, to life companionship with so dear a girl
as her beloved Ruth--a view which, of course, she kept strictly to herself.

But she still continued to criticise him, at which Peter would rub his hands and break out with:

"Fine fellow!--square peg in a square hole this time. Fine fellow, I tell you, Felicia!"

He receiving in reply some such answer as:

"Yes, quite lovely in fairy tales, Peter, and when you have taught him--for you did it, remember--how
to shovel and clean up underbrush and split rocks--and that just's what Ruth told me he was
doing when she took a telegram to her father which had come to the house--and he in a pair
of overalls, like any common workman--what, may I ask, will you have him doing next? Is he
to be an engineer or a clerk all his life? He might have had a share in his uncle's business
by this time if he had had any common-sense;" Peter retorting often with but a broad smile
and that little gulp of satisfaction--something between a chuckle and a sigh--which always
escaped him when some one of his proteges were living up to his pet theories.

And yet it was Miss Felicia herself who was the first to welcome the reprobate, even going
to the front door and standing in the icy draught, with the snowflakes whirling about her pompadoured
head, until Jack had alighted from the tail-end of Moggins's 'bus and, with his satchel in
his hand, had cleared the sidewalk with a bound and stood beside her.

"Oh, I'm so glad to be here," Jack had begun, "and it was so good of you to want me," when
a voice rang clear from the top of the stairs:

"And where's daddy--isn't he coming?"

"Oh!--how do you do, Miss Ruth? No; I am sorry to say he could not leave--that is, we could
not persuade him to leave. He sent you all manner of messages, and you, too, Miss--"

"He isn't coming? Oh, I am so disappointed! What is the matter, is he ill?" She was half-way
down the staircase now, her face showing how keen was her disappointment.

"No--nothing's the matter--only we are arranging for an important blast in a day or two, and
he felt he couldn't be away. I can only stay the night." Jack had his overcoat stripped from
his broad shoulders now and the two had reached each other's hands.

Miss Felicia watched them narrowly out of her sharp, kindly eyes. This love-affair--if it were
a love-affair--had been going on for years now and she was still in the dark as to the outcome.
There was no question that the boy was head over heels in love with the girl--she could see
that from the way the color mounted to his cheeks when Ruth's voice rang out, and the joy in
his eyes when they looked into hers. How Ruth felt toward her new guest was what she wanted
to know. This was, perhaps, the only reason why she had invited him--another thing she kept
strictly to herself.

But the two understood it--if Miss Felicia did not. There may be shrewd old ladies who can
read minds at a glance, and fussy old men who can see through blind millstones, and who know
it all, but give me two lovers to fool them both to the top of their bent, be they so minded.

"And now, dear, let Mr. Breen go to his room, for we dine in an hour, and Holker will be cross
as two sticks if we keep it waiting a minute."

But Holker was not cross--not when dinner was served; nobody was cross--certainly not Peter,
who was in his gayest mood; and certainly not Ruth or Jack, who babbled away next to each other.
Peter's heart swelled with pride and satisfaction as he saw the change which two years of hard
work had made in Jack--not only in his bearing and in a certain fearless independence which
had become a part of his personality, but in the unmistakable note of joyousness which flowed
out of him, so marked in contrast to the depression which used to haunt him like a spectre.
Stories of his life at his boarding-house--vaguely christened a hotel by its landlady, Mrs.
Hicks--bubbled out of the boy as well as accounts of various escapades among the men he worked
with--especially the younger engineers and one of the foremen who had rooms next his own--all
told with a gusto and ring that kept the table in shouts of merriment--Morris laughing loudest
and longest, Peter whispering behind his hand to Miss Felicia:

"Charming, isn't he?--and please note, my dear, that none of the dirt from his shovel seems
to have clogged his wit--" at which there was another merry laugh--Peter's, this time, his
being the only voice in evidence.

"And she is such fun, Miss Felicia" (Mrs. Hicks was under discussion), called out Jack, realizing
that he had, perhaps--although unconsciously--failed to include his hostess in his coterie
of listeners. "You should see her caps, and the magnificent airs she puts on when we come down
late to breakfast on Sunday mornings."

"And tell them about the potatoes," interrupted Ruth.

"Oh, that was disgraceful, but it really could not be helped--we had greasy fried potatoes
until we could not stand them another day, and Bolton found them in the kitchen late one night
ready for the skillet the next morning, and filled them with tooth powder, and that ended it."

"I'd have set you fellows out on the sidewalk if I'd been Mrs. Hicks," laughed Morris. "I know
that old lady--I used to stop with her myself when I was building the town hall--and she's
good as gold. And now tell me how MacFarlane is getting on--building a railroad, isn't he?
He told me about it, but I forget."

"No," replied Jack, his face growing suddenly serious as he turned toward the speaker; "the
company is building the road. We have only got a fill of half a mile and then a tunnel of a
mile more."

Miss Felicia beamed sententiously when Jack said "we," but she did not interrupt the speaker.

"And what sort of cutting?" continued the architect in a tone that showed his entire familiarity
with work of the kind.

"Gneiss rock for eleven hundred feet and then some mica schist that we have had to shore up
every time we move our drills," answered Jack quietly.

"Any cave-ins?" Morris was leaning forward now, his eyes riveted on the boy's. What information
he wanted he felt sure he now could get.

"Not yet, but plenty of water. We struck a spring last week" (this time the "we" didn't seem
so preposterous) "that came near drowning us out, but we managed to keep it under with a six-inch
centrifugal; but it meant pumping night and day."

"And when is he going to get through?"

"That depends on what is ahead of us. Our borings show up all right--most of it is tough gneiss--but
if we strike gravel or shale again it means more timbering, of course. Perhaps another year--perhaps
a few months. I am not giving you my own opinion, for I've had very little experience, but
that is what Bolton thinks--he's second in command next to Mr. MacFarlane--and so do the other
fellows at our boarding house."

And then followed a discussion on "struts," roof timbers and tie-rods, Jack describing in a
modest, impersonal way the various methods used by the members of the staff with which he was
connected, Morris, as usual, becoming so absorbed in the warding off of "cave-ins" that for
the moment he forgot the table, his hostess and everybody about him, a situation which, while
it delighted Peter, who was bursting with pride over Jack, was beginning to wear upon Miss
Felicia, who was entirely indifferent as to whether the top covering of MacFarlane's underground
hole fell in or not.

"There, now, Holker," she said with a smile as she laid her hand on his coat sleeve--"not another
word. Tunnels are things everybody wants to get through with as quick as possible--and I'm
not going to spend all night in yours--awful damp places full of smoke--No--not another word.
Ruth, ask that young Roebling next you to tell us another story--No, wait until we have our
coffee and you gentlemen have lighted your cigars. Perhaps, Ruth, you had better take Mr. Breen
into the smoking-room. Now, give me your arm, Holker, and you come, too, Major, and bring Peter
with you to my boudoir. I want to show you the most delicious copy of Shelley you ever saw.
No, Mr. Breen, Ruth wants you; we will be with you in a few minutes--" Then after the two had
passed on ahead--"Look at them, Major--aren't they a joy, just to watch?--and aren't you ashamed
of yourself that you have wasted your life? No arbor for you! What would you give if a lovely
girl like that wanted you all to herself by the side of my frog pond?"

A shout ahead from Jack, and a rippling laugh from Ruth now floated our way.

"Oh!--OH!--" and "Yes--isn't it wonderful--come and see the arbor--" and then a clatter of
feet down the soggy steps and fainter footfalls on the moist bricks, ending in silence.

"There!" laughed Miss Felicia, turning toward us and clapping her hands--"they have reached
the arbor and it's all over, and now we will all go out on the porch for our coffee. I haven't
any Shelley that you have not seen a dozen times--I just intended that surprise to come to
the boy and in the way Ruth wanted it--she has talked of nothing else since she knew he was
coming. Mighty dangerous, I can tell you, that old bench. Ruth can take care of herself, but
that poor fellow will be in a dreadful state if we leave them alone too long. Sit here, Holker,
and tell me about the dinner and what you said. All that Peter could remember was that you
never did better, and that everybody cheered, and that the squabs were so dry he couldn't eat
them."

But the Scribe refuses to be interested in Holker's talk, however brilliant, or in Miss Felicia's
crisp repartee. His thoughts are down among the palms, where the two figures are entering the
arbor, the soft glow of half a dozen lanterns falling upon the joyous face of the beautiful
girl, as, with hand in Jack's, she leads him to a seat beside her on the bench.

"But it's like home," Jack gasped. "Why, you must remember your own garden, and the porch that
ran alongside of the kitchen, and the brick walls--and just see how big it is and you never
told me a word about it! Why?"

"Oh, because it would have spoiled all the fun; I was so afraid daddy would tell you that I
made him promise not to say a word; and nobody else had seen it except Mr. Morris, and he said
torture couldn't drag it out of him. That old Major that Uncle Peter thinks so much of came
near spoiling the surprise, but Aunt Felicia said she would take care of him in the back of
the house--and she did; and I mounted guard at the top of the stairs before anybody could get
hold of you. Isn't it too lovely?--and, do you know, there are real live frogs in that pond
and you can hear them croak? And now tell me about daddy, and how he gets on without me."

But Jack was not ready yet to talk about daddy, or the work, or anything that concerned Corklesville
and its tunnel--the transition had been too sudden and too startling. To be fired from a gun
loaded with care, hard work and anxiety--hurled through hours of winter travel and landed at
a dinner-table next some charming young woman, was an experience which had occurred to him
more than once in the past two years. But to be thrust still further into space until he reached
an Elysium replete with whispering fountains, flowering vines and the perfume of countless
blossoms--the whole tucked away in a cosey arbor containing a seat for two--AND NO MORE--and
this millions of miles away, so far as he could see, from the listening ear or watchful eye
of mortal man or woman--and with Ruth, too--the tips of whose fingers were so many little shrines
for devout kisses--that was like having been transported into Paradise.

"Oh, please let me look around a little," he begged at last. "And this is why you love to come
here?"

"Yes--wouldn't you?"

"I would not live anywhere else if I could--and it has just the air of summer--and it feels
like a summer's night, too--as if the moon was coming up somewhere."

Ruth's delight equalled his own; she must show him the new tulips just sprouting, taking down
a lantern so that he could see the better; and he must see how the jessamine was twisted in
and out the criss-cross slats of the trellis, so that the flowers bloomed both outside and
in; and the little gully in the flagging of the pavement through which ran the overflow of
the tiny pond--till the circuit of the garden was made and they were again seated on the dangerous
bench, with a cushion tucked behind her beautiful shoulders.

They talked of the tunnel and when it would be finished; and of the village people and whom
they liked and whom they didn't--and why--and of Corinne, whose upturned little nose and superior,
dominating airs Ruth thought were too funny for words; and of her recently announced engagement
to Garry Minott, who had started for himself in business and already had a commission to build
a church at Elm Crest--known to all New Jersey as Corklesville until the real-estate agencies
took possession of its uplands--Jack being instrumental, with Mr. MacFarlane's help, in securing
him the order; and of the dinner to be given next week at Mrs. Brent Foster's on Washington
Square, to which they were both invited, thanks to Miss Felicia for Ruth's invitation, and
thanks to Peter for that of Jack, who, at Peter's request, had accompanied him one afternoon
to one of Mrs. Foster's receptions, where he had made so favorable an impression that he was
at once added to Mrs. Foster's list of eligible young men--the same being a scarce article.
They had discussed, I say, all these things and many more, in sentences, the Scribe devoutly
hopes, much shorter than the one he has just written--when in a casual--oh, so casual a way--merely
as a matter of form--Ruth asked him if he really must go back to Corklesville in the morning.

"Yes," answered Jack--"there is no one to take charge of the new battery but myself, and we
have ten holes already filled for blasting."

"But isn't it only to put the two wires together? Daddy explained it to me."

"Yes--but at just the right moment. Half a minute too early might ruin weeks of work. We have
some supports to blow out. Three charges are at their bases--everything must go off together."

"But it is such a short visit."

Some note in her voice rang through Jack's ears and down into his heart. In all their intercourse--and
it had been a free and untrammelled one so far as their meetings and being together were concerned--there
was invariably a barrier which he could never pass, and one that he was always afraid to scale.
This time her face was toward him, the rosy light bathing her glorious hair and the round of
her dimpled cheek. For an instant a half-regretful smile quivered on her lips, and then faded
as if some indrawn sigh had strangled it.

Jack's heart gave a bound.

"Are you really sorry to have me go, Miss Ruth?" he asked, searching her eyes.

"Why should I not be? Is not this better than Mrs. Hicks's, and Aunt Felicia would love to
have you stay--she told me so at dinner."

"But you, Miss Ruth?" He had moved a trifle closer--so close that his eager fingers almost
touched her own: "Do you want me to stay?"

"Why, of course, we all want you to stay. Uncle Peter has talked of nothing else for days."

"But do you want me to stay, Miss Ruth?"

She lifted her head and looked him fearlessly in the eyes:

"Yes, I do--now that you will have it that way. We are going to have a sleigh-ride to-morrow,
and I know you would love the open country, it is so beautiful, and so is--"

"Ruth! Ruth! you dear child," came a voice--"are you two never coming in?--the coffee is stone
cold."

"Yes, Aunt Felicia, right away. Run, Mr. Breen--" and she flew up the brick path.

For the second time Miss Felicia's keen, kindly eyes scanned the young girl's face, but only
a laugh, the best and surest of masks, greeted her.

"He thinks it all lovely," Ruth rippled out. "Don't you, Mr. Breen?"

"Lovely? Why, it is the most wonderful place I ever saw; I could hardly believe my senses.
I am quite sure old Aunt Hannah is cooking behind that door--" here he pointed to the kitchen--"and
that poor old Tom will come hobbling along in a minute with 'dat mis'ry' in his back. How in
the world you ever did it, and what--"

"And did you hear my frogs?" interrupted his hostess.

"Of course he didn't, Felicia," broke in Peter. "What a question to ask a man! Listen to the
croakings of your miserable tadpoles with the prettiest girl in seven counties--in seven States,
for that matter--sitting beside him! Oh!--you needn't look, you minx! If he heard a single
croak he ought to be ducked in the puddle--and then packed off home soaking wet."

"And that is what he is going to do himself," rejoined Ruth, dropping into a chair which Peter
had drawn up for her.

"Do what!" cried Peter.

"Pack himself off--going by the early train--nothing I can do or say has made the slightest
impression on him," she said with a toss of her head.

