There is prevalent a most erroneous impression that the Divine immanence and personality are
two irreconcilable conceptions, and that to assert that the All is a person or an individual
is at once to limit its universality.  Such is not the case, as an analysis of the conception
of personality will show.  The philosophic term "person" is utterly indifferent to the ideas
of limitation or illimitation.  Its essential significance, its distinguishing note, is that
of self-sufficiency or self-subsistence, prescinding entirely from all considerations of limits
or their absence.  Thus a stone, a plant, a brick is an individual, because each is self-contained
and is sufficient for the constitution of itself in being, and were they endowed with intelligence
they would be further distinguished by the honorific title of person.  Man is a person, because
a subsistent, self-sufficing individual, furthermore endowed with reason.  A fortiori is the
All a person, because if the Supreme is not self-sufficing, then nothing or nobody is.  Hence
we have to point out in reply to the strictures of the opposite philosophic school that so
far from infinitude being an obstacle to individuality or personality, the Infinite alone,
in the strict sense of the word, can be called a person, because in the Infinite or the All
alone is absolute self-sufficiency realised.  From the very fact, then, of the omnipresence
of the Divine, because--

  In my flesh his spirit doth flow
  Too near, too far for me to know;

because, to use Emerson's language, "God appears with all his parts in every moss and every
cobweb," or Mr. Spencer's, which comes to identically the same thing, "All the forces operative
in the universe are modes or manifestations of one Supreme and Infinite Energy"--because of
these momentous facts we ascribe personality to the Infinite, with no detriment to its immanence,
since of no other being could they by any possibility be true.  Theist or pantheist, it matters
very little by what name men call themselves so long as they do not imprison themselves within
the walls of the false version of the philosophy of relativity, which binds them over to acknowledge
nothing beyond their five external senses, to identify the unseen with the unknown, and thereby
to stunt and ultimately to atrophy the sublime powers, transcending the insignificant senses
we share with the animal world, as the sky towers above earth, whereby this noble poem of the
"Unknown God" was given us by William Watson.

And here we may turn our attention to the poem itself, to see, if I do not misinterpret it,
the evidences of that ethic creed, the doctrine of the sovereignty of the moral law, which
we acknowledge as the only rightful basis of religious idealism.

In the first place, it is only amid the silence of the soul, when the voice of the senses is
still, that we "gain a sense of God" at all.  It is a vision of the mind--of mind knowing Mind,
of soul transcending all distinctions and recognising itself.  It is the sublime region of
the higher unity into which subject and object are taken up and their distinction forgotten
or lost.  It is at night-fall, in sight of the awful pathway of the stars which, one would
think, should fill man with a sense of his immeasurable littleness, it is then that he realises
that this boundless splendour is nothing compared to him, for something more than a million
worlds is with him, in the eternal Mind whence all this majestic vision rose.

  When, overarched by gorgeous night,
  I wave my trivial self away;
  When all I was to all men's sight
  Shares the erasure of the day;
  Then do I cast my cumbering load,
  Then do I gain a sense of God.

But of what God? for there are gods many and lords many.  There is the known God, of whom the
Western world has heard so much now these two thousand years, the God of the most ancient Hebrew
Scriptures, themselves acclaimed as his unique and authentic revelation, the embodiment of
absolute truth.  That God has not been forgotten yet. Just now his temple is thronged with
worshippers.[1]  Ministers of religions in America, archbishops in Spain, are eager in their
invocations, and if we may believe our newspapers, the Cardinal of Madrid guaranteed the harmlessness
of American cannon and rifles to those who will implore his assistance through the intercession
of saints.  It is the war-cry of old: "The Lord is a Man of War!"

But the moral sense, the Divinity within, as contrasted with the Divinity in the skies, tells
the poet that this old-world god is an idol, a glorified image of man in his "violent youth,"
a "giant shadow hailed Divine".

  Not him that with fantastic boasts
    A sombre people dreamed they knew;
  The mere barbaric God of Hosts
    That edged their sword and braced their thew:
  A God they pitted 'gainst a swarm
  Of neighbour gods less vast of arm.

He is well known, this "God of Hosts".  Doubtless once he was the Divinity of the worlds that
stream across our sky, subsequently transformed into the god of battles, who ranged himself
on the side of his favourites, baffled their foes by super-human strategy or even knavery,
the god of carnage and bloodshed, progenitor, in direct line, of him who afterwards was preached
as the god of devil and hell.  What has taught the poet, what has taught man to disavow such
a Divinity?--

  A God like some imperious King,
    Wroth, were his realm not duly awed;
  A God for ever hearkening
    Unto his self-commanded laud;
  A God for ever jealous grown
  Of carven wood and graven stone.

No church, no official religion, no cleric or synod of ministers appears to have raised a hand
to inaugurate the emancipation of the Western world from its degrading belief in a "God of
Hosts".  It is only now, during the last thirty or forty years, that stragglers here and there
are coming into camp and making their submission to the "sovereignty of ethics," the supremacy
of the moral law, which dooms to eternal death divinities such as Odin, Jahveh and Zeus.  It
is to the emancipation of the conscience of humanity from the paralysing guidance of the great
ecclesiastical corporations of the past that we owe that famous band of scholars, who, antecedently
convinced on moral grounds that such conceptions of the Divine were sheer profanities, set
about an exhaustive study of the origins and text of the biblical literature, together with
an equally painstaking research into the history of kindred religions, which has resulted in
the vindication of the root doctrine of prophetic and ethical religion--the absolute and unlimited
sovereignty of the moral law, and the consequent identification of morality with religion.
They have made sacerdotal, sacrificial religion an impossibility to all who are at pains to
inform themselves of the facts: they have banished for ever the presence of that--

  God whose ghost in arch and aisle
    Yet haunts his temple--and his tomb;
  And follows in a little while
    Odin and Zeus to equal doom;
  A God of kindred seed and line;
  Man's giant shadow hailed Divine.

And now there comes a stanza of haunting beauty, the ethic creed set to music, a pathetic pleading,
a self-abasement, in the presence of the Immensities around us, and yet a passionate vindication
of man's right to sit in judgment on an idol-god such as this!

  O streaming worlds, O crowded sky!
    O life, and mine own soul's abyss,
  Myself am scarce so small that I
    Should bow to Deity like this!
  This my Begetter?  This was what
  Man in his violent youth begot.

The lesson of history and comparative religion could not be more perfectly summarised.  The
sovereignty of conscience could not be more masterfully asserted.  Of old we learned that man
was "made in the image of God," but now we see that the--

  God of our fathers, known of old--
    Lord of our far-flung battle-line--

he to whom we still raise our supplicating cry--

  Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
  Lest we forget--lest we forget!--[2]

we know that he is made in the image of man.  Unless a movement of retrogression sets in; unless
we have to submit to a paralysis of moral stagnation, the day must inevitably come when the
"Lord God of Hosts," "the Man of War," "the God of Victories," whom Spanish viceroys and captains
are incessantly invoking in their proclamations, will be swept into oblivion with the curse
of war which gave them birth.  But that hour of retrogression and decay shall never sound for
humanity.  A nation here, a people there, may drop out of the ranks; the last remnant of empire
may fall from their unworthy hands, but as I have faith in the eternal order, as I bow before
the everlasting Power which makes for moral progress, I know that war has served its purpose
amongst men, and that the day must come when it will be finally abolished as unworthy of rational
beings.  At any rate, the war-god is not he in whose image the perfected man was made, for--

          This was what
  Man in his violent youth begot.

This god was made in the image of man.

And as the mist of the phantom deity floats aside, there dawns a fairer vision of the veritably
Divine presence on the reverent soul of the poet.  No eye of man hath ever beheld him: it is
a vision of the spirit.  And as the language of souls is silent, he can say nothing of his
God, though he is so conscious of his everlasting presence.  If even his solemn speech, the
voice of the poet, "far above music," could tell of his God, then would he be but the idealised
image of himself. He may think, he does think far more deeply than the most adventurous theologian,
but he may never speak.  The mind must commune with itself.

  The God I know of, I shall ne'er
    Know, though he dwells exceeding nigh.
  Raise thou the stone and find me there,
    Cleave thou the wood and there am I,
  Yea in my flesh his spirit doth flow,
  Too near, too far for me to know.

I must confess this fills one with an immense reverence, a feeling of inexpressible awe.  Yet,
there is no fear associated with the emotion, but only a sense of unearthly peace which almost
asks that the silence may be prolonged so that thought may have further scope.  "Raise thou
the stone . . . cleave thou the wood," and we are in the presence of the Everlasting; soul
is face to face with the Soul of the world.

  Yea, in my flesh his spirit doth flow,
  Too near, too far for me to know.

Is this mysticism?  I know not by what name to call it, except that to me it is a reality transcending
any merely sensible experience one ever enjoys upon this earth.  It is the kingdom of the Unseen;
but only the unseen things are real and eternal, for they are the hidden springs of existence
and life.  Can one resist the melancholy, the sense of tears in things when we reflect that,
like our own bodily frame, the whole visible world is hastening to dissolution?  From the infinitesimal
insect whose earthly career is rounded off in a few moments, hardly come before gone, to the
longest-lived of living beings, to the oaks that stand beyond a thousand years, to the hills
that seemed so enduring that the Hebrew poet called them "everlasting," to this earth, to planets
away in the infinite azure, from the grain of sand to the totality of creations, from first
to last, it is true that all is passing away.

  Sunt lachrymae rerum et mentem mortalia tangunt.

The melancholy Heraclitus, whose philosophy allures while it saddens us, declares we never
traverse the same river twice; the water over which we once crossed has long since sped away
to the eternal seas. Seneca, centuries ago, noted the same of our own bodies; the process of
dissolution is continuous, until at length the restorative power itself will desert us and
the process will be complete.

But at the heart of this universal impermanence there is a soul of reality which the poet discerns
amid the fleeting atoms of the stone and the fibre of the growing tree.  It is as though we
found ourselves in a vast hall, filled to repletion with machinery in every condition of motion,
from the slowest and scarcely perceptible movements of the hour hand of a watch up to the incalculable
rapidity of a fly-wheel. All is flux, change, consumption of energy, wear and tear of the machinery
itself.  We know it must run down sometime, we know one day it must all be renewed.  But amid
all this instability we are well aware that there is a secret source of power, a centre whence
a renewal of energy ceaselessly arises.  Without its incessant action not one single movement
in that vast hall could be obtained.  It is the one real thing amidst a world of others which
are wearing and wasting away and therefore in a true sense unreal.  The secret spring whence
the energy is generated may be invisible, but we know it is somewhere, and if any one denied
its existence we should not take the trouble to answer him.  A faint, halting symbol is this
of the eternal and unchanging reality at the heart of the worlds--a dim light whereby to illustrate
the most solemn of truths, that always and everywhere, in the lightest as in the greatest movements
of nature, in the fragrance of a flower, the iridescence of a crystal, or the fierce energies
which shoot up mountains of hydrogen flames hundreds of miles high from the crater of the sun,
we have the revelation of "a Power without beginning, without end," [3] permanent while all
is in a condition of ceaseless flux and change, living while all around are hastening to their
deaths, the one only truly existent Being anywhere, the hidden source of all existence and life.

So far, we are justified in saying that we stand on the ground of indisputable fact.  It is
no mere hypothesis of science, still less a figment of the metaphysician's imagination, or
an outpouring of a poet's inspiration, that Permanence is the indispensable postulate of the
commonest facts of material existence.  We have no explanation to give as to the method of
such action as has been described on the part of the invisible and universal Energy, for we
cannot even explain the nexus between an act of human volitional energy and the raising of
an arm.  There are the facts, demonstrable and undeniable, but the how of those facts, no man
on this earth knoweth or perhaps ever will know.  Well may Browning profess himself content
to endure in patience the ignorance which is our lot here, if only at length "thy great creation-thought
thou wilt make known to me".  The "great creation-thought" cannot be known now.  Watson is
as sure of it as his spiritual ancestor:--

  I trust it not this bounded ken.

But though the "creation-thought" cannot be fathomed, though we cannot comprehend the nature
of the ultimate Reality, the fact of the great existence and omnipresence is clearly apprehensible,
and therefore must be acknowledged as a demonstrated fact by every man.

And, if such be the case, in what sense is God "unknown"?  Unknown, certainly, in the sense
that he is unseen, but we now know that the only real things are those of the invisible world.
God is unknown because incomprehensible, now and always, here and hereafter, in this life and
in all possible lives.  The Infinite must ever be beyond the comprehension of the finite.

  Though saint and sage their powers unite
  To fathom that abyss of light,
  Ah! still that altar stands.[4]

But the Divine is not beyond the apprehension of man's mind, and as far as I can by diligent
reading of Mr. Spencer attain to his innermost meaning, I do not think he denies this fact,
as he most unquestionably does not deny the validity of religious motion, which, arguing against
the Positivist philosophy, he rightly contends cannot, in its highest sense, be associated
with any being other than the Highest of all beings.  "What's in a name?" I ask, and whether
a man calls himself theist or agnostic--so that he does admit something greater than man, and
does give us scope and opportunity for the exercise of those powers and emotions which refuse
to be bounded by, or satisfied with, the merely phenomenal and transitory, but are ever seeking
for communion with the Noumenal and the Eternal--in my judgment matters very little. There
is a higher synthesis in which partial truths are being constantly taken up and reconciled
in some fuller and more luminous expression, and I have no doubt that that scientific reconciliation
of materialism and spiritualism which is now progressing so rapidly will eventually be effected
between those who now call themselves theists and agnostics.

To ethical idealists the great question is this: Does your belief make for reverence; does
it subdue your soul with a sense of the wonder and mystery which are everywhere so conspicuous
in nature; does it foster the growth of your spiritual powers as opposed to the merely animal
instincts of your body; does it make you more moral, fill you with an increasing enthusiasm
for the good life for its own sake?  Or, on the other hand, does what you profess dishearten
you, fill you with melancholy and foreboding and a sense of the unprofitableness of things,
of the apparent aimlessness of all that is going on or being done, of the fruitlessness of
all human endeavour?  Is the sigh of the inspired sceptic, "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity,"
ever and anon rising from your heart, and are you losing your faith in yourself and humanity?
That is the test of a faith--what it does for you, and you could have no better one.  The fact
that he worships an "Unknown God" means no shrinking of enthusiasm in him who believes that
that everlasting Power, which science no less than philosophy commands him to believe, is identical
with that very Power which is conspicuously working in the universe for universal aims which
also are good. Outside a handful of men of no consequence amid the thundering assent of the
overwhelming masses of mankind, the course of things here is upwards.  Instinct suggests it,
reason proclaims it, history confirms it.  But there are no two supreme powers, and therefore
that Power I reverence--

  The God on whom I ever gaze,
  The God I never once behold--

is also the everlasting "Power which makes for righteousness," that is, for moral progress,
the only progress ultimately worth caring about.

Men crave to see God.  "Behold I show you a mystery."  There are two incarnations.  There is
the incarnation of God in flesh and blood, in Chrishna in India, in Jesus in Palestine.  Men
have, men do worship these men as gods.  But there is a higher incarnation, a sublimer theophany.
There is that before which all incarnations, all saviours, have ever bowed down in lowliest
adoration; there is that whose obedience they would not surrender if "the whole world and the
glory thereof" were given to them.  There is that which is older than man and his redeemers,
higher than the stars, vast as the Immensities, ancient as the Eternities themselves, and in
this incarnation man may see God. What is it?  It is the moral law, the eternal sanction crowning
the right, inborn in rational man, the very soul of reason within him, inborn in things--the
law which no man ever invented, which never had beginning, which can know no end, because it
is the Divine order revealed to earth.  It is the necessary nature of the one essential Being,
and we recognise it because "we are his offspring," because like him we are Divine.

"Unknown God!"  Yes, but not here.

[1] These words were written during the opening days of the late Spanish-American war.

[2] Recessional, Rudyard Kipling.

[3] Herbert Spencer, First Principles, passim.

[4] Mrs. Barbauld's fine hymn, "As once upon Athenian ground".

XVI.

"A CHAPEL IN THE INFINITE."

The supreme value of the two great poets of the Victorian era is this, that they have attuned
their song to the expression of modern thought concerning those transcendent realities which
must ever possess an inexhaustible interest for mankind.  Thus we see, in an age which acknowledges
the complete emancipation of the human reason, the supremacy of conscience, the inviolable
rights of private judgment, Tennyson has sung of an "honest doubt" wherein there "lives more
faith" than "in half the creeds" and councils of ecclesiasticism.  Browning has faced the riddle
of the universe, the bewildering mystery of a world of pain and sorrow, with unconquerable
courage and hope.

And, being no dreamer or pessimist, seeing reason at the heart of things, and good the final
goal of ill, he

  At least believes in soul, and is very sure of God.

Here are the three imperishable realities--God, Soul, Hereafter.  Of all the rest is it ultimately
true which the weary preacher said: "Vanity of vanities; all is vanity," or, as the modern
Ecclesiastes has it: Tout passe, tout lasse, tout casse.

In the words of the opening stanzas of the "In Memoriam," Tennyson is evidently affected by
the spectacle the world exhibits to the thoughtful man in its multitudinous religious sects
and segments, and the strange contrasts the national, political and ethical unities of mankind
present, with their theological divergencies.  As we have seen, the etymology of the word "religion"
signifies that its intent and purpose is to bind men together, whereas, as we mournfully confess,
it has hitherto proved a fruitful source of schism and division, national as well as individual.
It is only since the much-despised and denounced "world" and its modern civilisation has effectually
curtailed the offensive powers of corporations, synods and inquisitions, that religion has
ceased to outrage the public conscience by repetitions of the enormities of former times.

As the sweep of his vision ranges over past and present, the poet is enabled to estimate these
fragmentary philosophies aright; he sees them in their proper perspective, in their relation
to the infinite Reality behind them.  He calls them "little systems," "broken lights": he is
able to forecast their future; "they cease to be".  There is but One Eternal, "without shadow
of change or turning": "And Thou, O Lord, art more than they".

This is the fact which weighs so heavily with the thoughtful and discriminating minds of the
day--that all the apocalyptic theologies and religious philosophies which purport to reveal
the unspeakable mystery known to exist, though hidden from our sight, end only in belittling
it.  Doubtless an element of accommodation is discoverable and essential in the purest thought
of the unseen order; our thoughts of the Soul of souls must be such as our spirits can supply.
Men so divided in belief as Kant and Newman have both recognised this fact, the only difference
being that, while the former understands the creeds and their tenets as symbols wherein man,
striving to express the inexpressible, finds relief and rest to his spirit, Newman looks upon
them as so much history, which if a man shall not accept as fact, "without doubt he shall perish
everlastingly".  To him, as to all who really stand by their order, the New Covenant is a revelation,
complete and final, of all that can or will be known of the transcendental order.  It claims
that "a door was opened in heaven," and those mysteries made manifest "to little ones" which
had been "hidden from the wise" and far-seeing philosophers of old.  It claims to be "the tabernacle
of God with men," "God manifest in the flesh," or in sacraments, rites and symbols--nay, it
is the "city come out of heaven from God," it is the cathedral of humanity.

This was believed profoundly, almost universally, in the days before the flood--the flood of
knowledge let loose upon mankind, beginning with the days of the Renascimento and continuing
down to our own.  But the philosopher-poet of the nineteenth century sees nothing of it in
the altar and system set up in this Western world.  Like the rest, it is, to him, a "little
system," which ultimately ceases to be.  The heavenly city fades into an earthly chamber, the
vast cathedral of humanity dwindles to a spot on the horizon, it shrinks to the dimensions
of "a chapel in the infinite".

The first great shock to the pretentious dogmatism of the Western world came with the discovery
of Copernicus and Galileo that the current astronomy was fundamentally wrong.  No sun-star
or swarm of worlds in the infinite azure could be so precious in God's sight as this earth
of ours, it was believed, for had it not been chosen as the scene and stage of that transcendent
act whereby the Deity had consecrated humanity for ever to himself?  Now it turns out that
the physical origin of this world of ours is precisely that of others, while, so far from being
the centre of the universe, it is but a speck in infinity, positively invisible from any of
the million suns that light the eternal way from our own central orb to the infinities that
range beyond.  The ecclesiastical mind of those days astutely fastened on the charge of impugning
the sacred record of Moses--itself a phenomenal instance of incompetent infallibility--but
the real explanation of Galileo's persecution lies in the fact that, with this earth in a dependent
position and in ceaseless motion, the whole system of theology suffered a serious shock.  Where
were heaven and hell in the new version astronomy gave of things?  Where did Jesus' spirit
go on his death?  Where is limbo, and where is purgatory?  Whither did he go when he ascended
bodily into the air?  Since this earth is uncounted myriads of miles from the spot in space
which it occupied this morning when we awoke, what became of the inspired geography of the
terra incognita, according to which the several receptacles of spirits were mapped out with
such unfaltering precision?

With the vanishing of the pre-eminent claims advanced by a rudimentary science on behalf of
this earth, and supported by the unsuspecting theology of the childhood of the world, the earth-born
philosophy of things wrapped up in its fate must also disappear.  While the earth dwindles
into a spot in endless space, its "little systems" share its fate, and our Western cathedral
shrinks to the dimensions of "a chapel in the infinite".

