Do we not often give to a poor CHRIST rather than to a rich one? Are we not sometimes unwilling
to give until we know His work to be in straits, and sometimes its very existence imperilled?
Are not our hearts oft times more moved by the recital of human needs than by CHRIST'S claim
for the prosecution of the one work for which He has left His Church on earth? A famine in
India, a flood in China, is more potent to bring temporal relief than the continual famine
of the bread of life and of the increasing floods of heathen ungodliness. It is well, it is
CHRIST-like, to minister temporal relief to suffering humanity, but shall the deep longings
and thirstings of His soul, and the impressiveness of His last command ere He ascended on high,
be less urgent? How many of the parents who refuse to let son or daughter go into the mission-field
would refuse the Queen of England were she to confer the honour of a mission on their beloved
children? Do we recognize the majesty of the King of Glory, and the immortal honor that appertains
to His service?

To the Queen of Sheba, however, more was given than to those happy subjects or to those servants
who served the king in their own land. To her was given, as an eye-witness of the majesty of
the king, as a glad participant of his bounty, to return to the far-off land, and to testify
to those to whom, if they had heard at all, the half had not been told. Not as she came did
she return, with a longing, yearning, unsatisfied heart, with duties to discharge for which
she had not the wisdom;--with a royal dignity indeed, but one which brought not rest to her
own spirit. Now she had seen the king, now all her desire was met; and the glorious king, after
thus marvelously satisfying her, had further overwhelmed her with unthought-of gifts of his
own royal bounty!

Do we know much of this, beloved friends? Has CHRIST become to us such a living bright reality
that no post of duty shall be irksome, that as His witnesses we can return to the quiet home
side, or to the distant service among the heathen, with hearts more than glad, more than satisfied;
and most glad, most satisfied, when most sad and most stripped, it may be, of earthly friends
and treasures? Let us put all our treasures into His hand; then He will never need to take
them from us on account of heart idolatry; and if in wisdom and love He remove them for a time,
He will leave no vacuum, but Himself will fill the void, Himself wipe away the tear.

There is yet more for us than it was possible to give to the Queen of Sheba. King Solomon had
to send her away, he could not go with her; while, though we have to leave the conference or
convention, or the early hour of holy closet communion with our LORD, for the ordinary duties
of daily life, our Solomon goes with us, nay, dwells in us, to meet each fresh need and to
solve each fresh perplexity as it arises. We have His word, "I will never leave thee, never
fail thee, never forsake thee." Satisfied and filled to begin with, we have the SATISFIER,
the FILLER, with us and in us. When He says, "Whom shall We send and who will go for Us?" He
means to send us on no lonely errand, but on one which will give to Him a better opportunity
of revealing Himself, and to us of "finding out the greatness of His loving heart." Who will
not answer Him, "Here am I, send me;" or, "Here are mine, send them"?

A Full Reward. 11, 12).

In this interesting narrative we have another instance of the way in which the HOLY GHOST teaches
by typical lives. We have dwelt on some precious lessons taught us of our KING by the account
of the coming of the Queen of Sheba to King Solomon. There we were specially taught how our
hard questions are to be solved, and our hearts to be fully satisfied. Here a still higher
lesson is give us: How to serve so as to obtain "a full reward," while as to the nature of
that full reward no little light is given us.

To us these lessons are of special interest, as bearing on missions to foreign nations, and
perhaps they somewhat explain why He who delights to bless, and is able to bless the obedient
soul, said so emphatically, "Go, teach all nations;" "Go ye into all the world." The service
of GOD is a delightful privilege anywhere. Those who stay at home, however, need to become
strangers and pilgrims there. This is not always easy to do in the present day; and many fail,
and forget their true position. To those who are permitted to labour in foreign lands, there
is a lessened danger in this respect; and hence many obtain a fuller joy in present service,
and look forward to a fuller reward by-and-by, than they anticipated ere they left all for
JESUS' sake.

Ruth was by nature a "stranger to the commonwealth of Israel," but by marriage with an Israelite
was brought amongst that people. On the death of her husband, she still clave to her mother-in-law
and to her GOD, the GOD of Israel. She so esteemed her privileged position that for it she
left her native land and all its enjoyments; left parents, relatives and friends, and all those
attractions that led Orpah to return to Moab. To her it was better to be the companion of her
mother-in-law, poor and desolate as she was, than to enjoy for a season what in Moab might
have been hers.

This sacrifice was so real that Naomi, much as she loved her daughter-in-law, and desolate
as she would be without her, felt she could not wish it for her own sake merely; but when Ruth
said, "Thy people shall by my people, and thy GOD my GOD," she had no further doubt to suggest,
and no further obstacle to put in her way. If companionship with one of GOD'S poor servants
is so precious, what shall we say to Him who exhorts us, "Go! ... and, lo, I am with you"?
Is He not saying: The good SHEPHERD must seek the wandering sheep until He find them. Go ye,
too, and seek them, and in so doing you shall find My companionship ensured? Shall we decline
this fellowship with Him, and leave Him, so far as we are concerned, to seek them alone?

We next find Ruth toiling in the burning sun as a gleaner, and there she meets for the first
time the lord of the harvest. The beauty of the narrative of Boaz saluting his reapers with,
"Thy LORD be with you," and their reply, "The LORD bless thee," must delight every reader.
And poor Ruth, too though not a reaper--only a gleaner--is made most welcome, and encouraged
to remain in the fields of Boaz until all the reaping is done. Then the lord of the harvest
responds in the words we have quoted at the head of the paper, "It hath fully been showed me,
all that thou hast done," etc.

Let us then turn from Boaz to the true LORD of the Harvest. Does He meet us there, toiling
in the heat of the summer's sun? Knowing fully all we have done, does that knowledge bring
joy to His heart? and is it a joy to us to know that He knows all? Our risen and glorious LORD,
so wonderfully described in Rev. i, still walks in the midst of the golden candlesticks. Can
He say to us, "I know thy works," with no word of rebuke? or do we feel the blush of shame
as the eye as "a flame of fire" rests upon us? "And now, little children, abide in Him; that,
when He shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before Him at His coming."

Let us all leave the fatherland of the world, and at least become strangers and pilgrims in
it. Let us all toil in some way or other in the great harvest-field, and if we may lawfully
do so, let us not be slow to obey the command to "go, teach all nations." Where the need is
greatest let us be found gladly obeying the MASTER'S command. For it is in the harvest-field,
it is among the reapers, that we shall find Him.

There is no Christian service in which faith must not be in lively exercise. At home, abroad,
connected with this branch of GOD'S work or that, without faith it is impossible to please
Him. Paul may plant, Apollos water; GOD only gives the increase. Every true minister of GOD,
every true missionary, every true Sunday-school teacher and Christian worker is a faith-worker.
But in the foreign field workers are peculiarly cast on GOD. There are special dangers and
difficulties, special weaknesses and needs that bring GOD very near--nearer than most of the
workers realised Him to be while they remained at home. And to those who have gone out without
human guarantee of support, who do not know when the next help may reach them, not its amount,
there is an additional link with the great loving heart of our FATHER and our GOD that is unspeakably
precious and welcome.

May we not say that in ever position of life when we are weak in ourselves, our friends, our
circumstances, then are we strongest in Him? And when in our great needs, for ourselves or
for the souls around us, we lay hold on GOD and say, "My soul, wait thou ONLY upon GOD; for
my expectation is from Him," what rest and security and certainty come into the waiting soul.
And ah! When labouring in this spirit how words like those of our heavenly Boaz come home to
the heart. Happy toiler in China! Happy toiler at Home! If it is sometimes dark, the shadow
is but the shadow of His wing, under which thou art abiding, under which thou art come to trust.

We will not prolong this meditation. He who comforted and blessed the lonely gleaner while
the harvest lasted, became her husband when the harvest toil was past. It was thus the LORD
recompensed her work. Israel was not blessed apart from her, for David the deliverer, and Solomon
the glory of Israel, were born of the seed which Boaz had through her. Soon shall come the
glorious day of the espousals of CHRIST and His Church. With her He will come to deliver Israel
and to judge the world and even the angels. Ruth little knew the honour and happiness awaiting
her when she left all for GOD and His people. We know the purposes of GOD'S grace and the glories
in store for us. What manner of men, then, should we be; and how earnest and faithful in the
little time which awaits us before we are called to our reward, and to meet Him in the air?
When He says, Go! Shall we reply, No? When He asks us to continue in His harvest till the reaping
is over, shall we say Him, Nay?

Under the Shepherd's Care.

A NEW YEAR'S ADDRESS.

"For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your
souls."--1 Peter ii. 25.

"Ye were as sheep going astray." This is evidently addressed to believers. We were like sheep,
blindly, willfully following an unwise leader. Not only were we following ourselves, but we
in our turn have led others astray. This is true of all of us: "All we like sheep have gone
astray;" all equally foolish, "we have turned every one to his own way." Our first though has
been, "I like this," or "I don't like that"; never thinking what the LORD would prefer, we
have just followed our own inclinations. So terribly astray were we that nothing less than
the life-blood of our good SHEPHERD could atone for our sin, and save us from its power and
its penalty. In Isaiah liii., we learn the substitutionary character of the death of CHRIST
unmistakably, as also in the verse before our text. The GOD of the Bible is a GOD who punishes
sin, and cannot pardon without atonement. The substitution of the innocent victim for the guilty
offerer is so clearly taught from Genesis to Revelation, that he must be blind indeed who does
not see it. Praise GOD our KINSMAN-REDEEMER has paid our debt; and "with His stripes we are
healed."

II. "BUT ARE NOW RETURNED UNTO THE SHEPHERD AND BISHOP OF YOUR SOULS." Far astray as we were,
by His grace we have been brought back again, and now we are "returned"--some of us scarcely
returning so much as being carried to the fold by our loving SHEPHERD. And it is so blessed
to realize that now we are not without a MASTER, a LEADER, a HEAD. We were intended to be followers.
We always do follow; but, alas! We did not follow the right MASTER. Now the right MASTER has
found us; and instead of following our own foolish lead, we want to follow His wise lead. And
it is most restful to realize that we are not left to live a life at the mercy of circumstances,
or to walk in our own wisdom. We can never foresee the future; we never fully understand the
present. How dangerous would be our position were we left alone! But as believers we have been
brought back; we "are now returned unto the SHEPHERD and BISHOP of our souls."

III. How blessed it is to have such a SHEPHERD, BISHOP, OVERSEER, One who is continually watching
over us in order to provide and lead, to sustain and deliver, to meet and supply our every
need! All is found in CHRIST JESUS; in His presence, in His power, in His love may we more
and more rest!

I have frequently thought of words I had the privilege of hearing some years ago from Professor
Charteris at a united Communion service for students in Edinburgh. He said that there had been
one life on earth of steady, uninterrupted development from the cradle to the Cross; but that
there had only been one such life, for the true Christian life always began where the life
of CHRIST ended, at the Cross; and that its true development is towards the cradle, until the
child of GOD in the child-like simplicity of faith can rest in the omnipotent arms of infinite
WISDOM and LOVE. Is not this the growth and development we long for, in order that we may be
among those to whom GOD will reveal the things which are hidden from the wise and prudent?
The more we rest on this fact,--that we do not know the way we are going, but that we have
a GUIDE who does know; that we do not know how to accomplish our service, but that He never
leaves us to devise our own service;--the more restful does our life become. Then we find we
have just to do this--to look to our SAVIOUR to be filled with His perfections; not to be fretting
and fuming as to how the divine life shall manifest itself, but to leave the life to work spontaneously
through us. A heavy bunch of grapes on a tender shoot would break it; but let the shoot abide
in the vine it will grow stronger, and as the fruit develops, the strength of the branch will
increase also, and the life left to its own natural and healthy development will in due time
be brought to perfection

As we look forward to the months of this year, we know not where the close will find us; whether
here or in the eternal Home. We know not what burdens, perplexities, or difficulties it may
bring; but we know Him, whose we are, and whom we serve. HE knows all; this suffices for us.

I have been looking at a few passages which bring out the care of our LORD for His people:--

(1) 2 Tim. ii. 19, "The foundation of GOD standeth sure, having this seal, The LORD knoweth
them that are His."--The LORD knows every one of His own. We may not know them. We may make
mistakes if we judge of others. Some may be His, and we may be unaware of it. The LORD knows
them that are His. This is a safe foundation. We, too, know in our souls whether the LORD is
indwelling us, whether His peace fills us, sustains and blesses us.

(2) Nahum i. 7, "The LORD is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and He knoweth them
that trust in Him."--He has a special knowledge of those who put their trust in Him. Though
our trust at times is very poor, yet, if there be any trust at all in Him, we can say, "Help
thou mine unbelief." He knows we want to trust Him better.

