William the Conqueror

Contents

Introduction The Early Years of William William's First Visit to England The Reign of William
in Normandy Harold's Oat to William The Negotiations of Duke William William's Invasion of
England The Conquest of England The Settlement of England The Revolts against William The Last
Years of William

CHAPTER I--INTRODUCTION

The history of England, like the land and its people, has been specially insular, and yet no
land has undergone deeper influences from without.  No land has owed more than England to the
personal action of men not of native birth.  Britain was truly called another world, in opposition
to the world of the European mainland, the world of Rome.  In every age the history of Britain
is the history of an island, of an island great enough to form a world of itself. And they would
welcome a scheme which brought worship within easier range, and saved the cost of leaving business
and undertaking a wearisome journey in order to keep the feasts. Thus, without deliberate choice,
they swiftly glided down into idolatry and national ruin.

Jeroboam thus led the people to a violation of one of the fundamental laws in the Decalogue.
For if the first command was not disobeyed by all the people, the second was, and these laws
are still obligatory, nor can they be broken with impunity.

With fatal facility those who worshipped Jeroboam's golden calf became identified with the heathen,
and the kingdom thus set upon a false foundation was at last utterly destroyed. And as surely as
the tide flows in upon the shore, so surely will the laws of God bring retribution on all who
are impenitent. To every man the choice is proffered between the false and the true ideal of
life.

ASA BY REV. ALFRED ROWLAND, D. D., LL.

B. 1 KINGS xv. 8-24; 2 CHRON. xiv-xvi.

Asa was the third king who reigned over the separated kingdoms of
Judah.

His father was Ahijah, of whom it is sternly said, "He walked in all the sins of his father, Rehoboam,
which he had done before him." A worse bringing-up than Asa's could scarcely be imagined. As a child,
and as a lad, he was grievously tempted by his father's example, and by the influence of an
idolatrous court, which was crowded by flatterers and panderers. The leading spirit of the court-circle
was Maachah, "the King's mother," as she is called-- the Sultana Valide. She was a woman of
strong character, and held a high official position. She was the grand-daughter of Absalom,
and was notorious for her fanatical idolatry. In short, she was
the evil genius of the kingdom, like the Chinese Queen-mother of our own
times, although, happily, Asa possessed a force of character which
the young Emperor of China seems to lack. It is certainly noteworthy,
that, with so much against the cultivation of a religious life, "Asa
did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, as did David his father."
Sometimes on a heap of corruption, which we are glad to hurry past
with abhorrence, God plants a beautiful and fragrant flower, as if in
defiance of man's neglect; and thus Asa appeared in the family, and in
the court of Ahijah, his father-- a God-fearing, single-minded lad,
with a will of his own. As there was hope for him, there is hope for
all.

  That we are what we
are to this day largely comes of the fact that there was a moment when our national destiny
might be said to hang on the will of a single man, and that that man was William, surnamed
at different stages of his life and memory, the Bastard, the Conqueror, and the Great.

With perfect fitness then does William the Norman, William the Norman Conqueror of England,
take his place in a series of English statesmen.  That so it should be is characteristic of
English history.  Our history has been largely wrought for us by men who have come in from
without, sometimes as conquerors, sometimes as the opposite of conquerors; but in whatever
character they came, they had to put on the character of Englishmen, and to make their work
an English work. Thus made bolder by each difficulty surmounted, he begins to feel the exhilaration
of a mountain climb, which braces the nerves more than anything besides. If we are really
anxious to be in God's appointed way, and boldly take it when it is made clear, we may be sure
that He will answer the prayer: "Hold up my goings in Thy paths,
that my footsteps slip not."

III.

There
are crises in the experience of every one when the whole future is determined; and such a crisis
came to Joseph of Arimathea.

He had been for some time a disciple of Jesus, but had never avowed the fact. But after standing
on Calvary and seeing the death of his Lord, sorrow, shame, and indignation so stirred him,
that at once he went in boldly unto Pilate. It was the turning-point in his history, when
obedience to God-given impulse decided his whole destiny. The spiritual influences which play
upon our souls are not even in their flow. There are times when one is strangely moved, although
in outward environment there is little to account for it. The sermon listened to may be illiterate,
the hymn sung may be destitute of poetic beauty, the friendly word may be spoken by a social inferior-- yet
one of these sometimes suffices as the channel of divine power, which shakes the soul to its
very depths. We have known the unexpected avowal of love to Christ on the part of one obscure scholar
set all in the class thinking on the subject of personal responsibility to God, and to His Church.
And sometimes the sorrow of leaving home for the first time, or the death of a dearly-loved
friend, has sufficed to arouse the question, "What must I do to be
saved?"

We must beware of allowing such opportunities for decisive action to slip away unimproved.
When a vessel has grounded at the harbour-bar, she must wait till the tide lifts her, or she will
not reach a safe anchorage; but when the tide does flow in, no sane man will let the chance
go by, lest a storm should rise and wreck her within reach of home.

It is noteworthy that Joseph was moved to decision and confession by the crucifixion of the
Lord; for this might have been expected to seal his lips. It would seem to have been easier to
follow the great Teacher when listening crowds gathered round Him, and multitudes were being
healed of whatsoever diseases they had, than to acknowledge loyalty to Him when He was crucified
as a malefactor. Yet it was from the Cross that this man went into
the Church. The light came to him when darkness seemed deepest. It
was in the presence of the crucified Saviour, of whom even the Roman
centurion said, "Truly this was the Son of God," that Joseph learned
to say, "Because thou hast died for me, I will henceforth live for
Thee."
He added Domfront and Maine to his dominions, and the conquest of Maine, the work as much of
statesmanship as of warfare, was the rehearsal of the conquest of England.  There, under circumstances
strangely like those of England, he learned his trade as conqueror, he learned to practise
on a narrower field the same arts which he afterwards practised on a wider.  But after all,
William's own duchy was his special school; it was his life in his own duchy which specially
helped to make him what he was. Surrounded by trials and difficulties almost from his cradle,
he early learned the art of enduring trials and overcoming difficulties; he learned how to
deal with men; he learned when to smite and when to spare; and it is not a little to his honour
that, in the long course of such a reign as his, he almost always showed himself far more ready
to spare than to smite.

Before then we can look at William as an English statesman, we must first look on him in the
land in which he learned the art of statesmanship.  We must see how one who started with all
the disadvantages which are implied in his earlier surname of the Bastard came to win and to
deserve his later surnames of the Conqueror and the Great.

CHAPTER II--THE EARLY YEARS OF WILLIAM--A.D. 1028-1051

If William's early reign in Normandy was his time of schooling for his later reign in England,
his school was a stern one, and his schooling began early.  His nominal reign began at the
age of seven years, and his personal influence on events began long before he had reached the
usual years of discretion.  And the events of his minority might well harden him, while they
could not corrupt him in the way in which so many princes have been corrupted.  His whole position,
political and personal, could not fail to have its effect in forming the man.  He was Duke
of the Normans, sixth in succession from Rolf, the founder of the Norman state.  At the time
of his accession, rather more than a hundred and ten years had passed since plunderers, occasionally
settlers, from Scandinavia, had changed into acknowledged members of the Western or Karolingian
kingdom. The river which near its source noisily rushes over the pebbles, is not lessened in value
when, full and deep, it silently glides onward to the sea.

Happily, there are diversities of operations, though they are all under the inspiration of
the Holy Spirit; and if we are faithful to our special calling, we may hope to receive our
Lord's "Well done," just as did these seventy-two men, who sustained and aided Moses, though
they left no record of their steady, useful work. Indeed, there are those who in actual service
can do very little, whose gracious and benign influence is the best
proof of true inspiration.

God
calls us to Himself before He calls us to His service. The same Divine Spirit who qualifies for
religious work, creates men anew. Of every one so created, it may be said he was "born of the
Spirit."

In this, also, neither place nor circumstance is essential. Eldad and Medad were both away from
the Tabernacle, somewhere in the unconsecrated camp; yet they received the same blessing which
their brethren were enjoying at the door of the Tabernacle. And we rejoice that some who are
now outside a place of worship-- outside this or that denomination-- outside Christendom, do receive
the Spirit who transforms them into the likeness of Christ.

In confirmation of this, we recall the fact that our Lord spoke more
often in houses, and fields, and boats, and streets, than in the
Temple.

And the apostles who were called to follow Him were engaged at the time of their calling in their
ordinary occupations, at the toll-office or in the fishing-boat. Saul was converted on the road
to Damascus, the jailor of Philippi in prison, Lydia by the river side. All this reminds us
that though our power may be limited by time and place, God's power is not; though our work is
contracted, His is broad. The Holy Spirit is no more confined to a place than the wind is,
which bloweth as it listeth over land and sea, over desert and garden.

It is a comfort to remember this when we grieve over some prodigal, who has gone beyond the reach of
religious observances; who never attends worship, or reads the Bible. We may hope about him,
believe in him, and pray for him still, because the Spirit of God can reach him as He reached
Eldad and Medad, "who went not up to the Tabernacle."

It is this divine afflatus, this outpouring of the Spirit, which is the great need of the age we
live in. The Church seems to be lying listless as a sailing ship, due to leave harbour, but
still waiting for a breeze. Her masts are firm, the canvas ready to be stretched, and her equipment
complete. The helmsman stands impatient at the wheel, and all the
sailors are alert, but not a ripple runs along the vessel's side.
She waits, and must wait, for a heavenly breeze to fill her sails,
and till it comes she cannot stir. Like that ship the Church is wanting
impulse, and we ought to be waiting for it, and praying for it.

BARZILLAI BY REV. GEORGE MILLIGAN, M. A., D. D. "There is nothing,"
says Socrates to Cephalus in the Republic, "I like better than conversing
with aged men.

For
I regard them as travellers who have gone a journey which I too may
have to go, and of whom it is right to learn the character of the
way, whether it is rugged or difficult, or smooth and easy"
The growth of feudal notions too had greatly strengthened the hereditary principle.  Still
no rule had anywhere been laid down for cases where the late prince had not left a full-grown
son.  The question as to legitimate birth was equally unsettled.  Irregular unions of all kinds,
though condemned by the Church, were tolerated in practice, and were nowhere more common than
among the Norman dukes.  In truth the feeling of the kingliness of the stock, the doctrine
that the king should be the son of a king, is better satisfied by the succession of the late
king's bastard son than by sending for some distant kinsman, claiming perhaps only through
females.  Still bastardy, if it was often convenient to forget it, could always be turned against
a man.  The succession of a bastard was never likely to be quite undisputed or his reign to
be quite undisturbed.

Now William succeeded to his duchy under the double disadvantage of being at once bastard and
minor.  He was born at Falaise in 1027 or 1028, being the son of Robert, afterwards duke, but
then only Count of Hiesmois, by Herleva, commonly called Arletta, the daughter of Fulbert the
tanner.  There was no pretence of marriage between his parents; yet his father, when he designed
William to succeed him, might have made him legitimate, as some of his predecessors had been
made, by a marriage with his mother.  In 1028 Robert succeeded his brother Richard in the duchy.
In 1034 or 1035 he determined to go on pilgrimage to Jerusalem.  He called on his barons to
swear allegiance to his bastard of seven years old as his successor in case he never came back.
Their wise counsel to stay at home, to look after his dominions and to raise up lawful heirs,
was unheeded.  Robert carried his point.  The succession of young William was accepted by the
Norman nobles, and was confirmed by the overlord Henry King of the French.  The arrangement
soon took effect.  Robert died on his way back before the year 1035 was out, and his son began,
in name at least, his reign of fifty-two years over the Norman duchy.

The succession of one who was at once bastard and minor could happen only when no one else
had a distinctly better claim William could never have held his ground for a moment against
a brother of his father of full age and undoubted legitimacy.  But among the living descendants
of former dukes some were themselves of doubtful legitimacy, some were shut out by their profession
as churchmen, some claimed only through females.  Robert had indeed two half- brothers, but
they were young and their legitimacy was disputed; he had an uncle, Robert Archbishop of Rouen,
who had been legitimated by the later marriage of his parents.  The rival who in the end gave
William most trouble was his cousin Guy of Burgundy, son of a daughter of his grandfather Richard
the Good.  Though William's succession was not liked, no one of these candidates was generally
preferred to him.  He therefore succeeded; but the first twelve years of his reign were spent
in the revolts and conspiracies of unruly nobles, who hated the young duke as the one representative
of law and order, and who were not eager to set any one in his place who might be better able
to enforce them.

Nobility, so variously defined in different lands, in Normandy took in two classes of men.
All were noble who had any kindred or affinity, legitimate or otherwise, with the ducal house.
The natural children of Richard the Fearless were legitimated by his marriage with their mother
Gunnor, and many of the great houses of Normandy sprang from her brothers and sisters.  The
mother of William received no such exaltation as this.  Besides her son, she had borne to Robert
a daughter Adelaide, and, after Robert's death, she married a Norman knight named Herlwin of
Conteville.  To him, besides a daughter, she bore two sons, Ode and Robert.  They rose to high
posts in Church and State, and played an important part in their half-brother's history.  Besides
men whose nobility was of this kind, there were also Norman houses whose privileges were older
than the amours or marriages of any duke, houses whose greatness was as old as the settlement
of Rolf, as old that is as the ducal power itself.  The great men of both these classes were
alike hard to control.  A Norman baron of this age was well employed when he was merely rebelling
against his prince or waging private war against a fellow baron.  What specially marks the
time is the frequency of treacherous murders wrought by men of the highest rank, often on harmless
neighbours or unsuspecting guests. But victims were also found among those guardians of the
young duke whose faithful discharge of their duties shows that the Norman nobility was not
wholly corrupt.  One indeed was a foreign prince, Alan Count of the Bretons, a grandson of
Richard the Fearless through a daughter.  Two others, the seneschal Osbern and Gilbert Count
of Eu, were irregular kinsmen of the duke.  All these were murdered, the Breton count by poison.
Such a childhood as this made William play the man while he was still a child.  The helpless
boy had to seek for support of some kind.  He got together the chief men of his duchy, and
took a new guardian by their advice. But it marks the state of things that the new guardian
was one of the murderers of those whom he succeeded.  This was Ralph of Wacey, son of William's
great-uncle, Archbishop Robert.  Murderer as he was, he seems to have discharged his duty faithfully.
There are men who are careless of general moral obligations, but who will strictly carry out
any charge which appeals to personal honour. Anyhow Ralph's guardianship brought with it a
certain amount of calm.  But men, high in the young duke's favour, were still plotting against
him, and they presently began to plot, not only against their prince but against their country. Many
a girl has been entrapped into an unhappy marriage; and many a lad, moved by a vaunting ambition
which overleaped itself, has fallen never to rise: like Icarus, when
his waxen wings melted in the sun.

There must have been sad laxity of discipline in the home of David. It is said of Adonijah that
"his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so?" In other
words, Adonijah had never been checked and rebuked as he ought to have been, and this foolish
indulgence was as fatal to him as it had been to the sons of Eli. There are still such homes
as David's, although their inmates do well to draw down the veil of secrecy over them with loyal
hands, and never blazon abroad the grief and anxiety which rend their hearts. In one home a
fair, bright girl mars the beauty of her early womanhood by a flippant disregard of her mother's
wishes, and by an exaltation of her own pleasure-loving disposition as the one law of her life.
In another, a mere child, hasty and uncontrolled in temper, is the dread of the whole household,
and at last becomes its tyrant, because every wish is gratified rather than that a scene should be provoked.
In yet another a grown-up son is callous about his mother's anxiety and his father's counsels;
and gladly ignores his home associations as he drifts away upon the sea of vice, and there
becomes a miserable wreck. With each of these it might have been otherwise. If authority had
been asserted, and steadily maintained, before bad habits were formed; if firm resolution on the part
of the parents had taken the place of indulgent laxity, if, instead of being left to chance, character
had been moulded during the time when it was plastic-- these might, with God's blessing, have grown
up to be wise, pure-hearted, courageous followers of Christ-- who would not only have sweetened
the atmosphere of home, but would have done something to purify and illumine society, as the
salt and the light of the world.

The sin of which Adonijah was guilty, whose sources we have tried to discover, was the assumption
of unlawful authority and state, which involved rebellion against
his own father.

Ambition is not always wrong. It is a common inspiration often nerving men to attempt daring and
noble deeds. Desire for distinction, with capacity for it, may often be regarded as the voice
of God summoning to high effort. The world would soon be stagnant without ambition. The scholar
working for a prize, the writer or speaker resolving to make a name, the man of business pressing
onward past the indolent and the ne'er-do-weel, are not to be condemned, so long as they seek
lawful objects by lawful means. Those who strenuously and hopefully fulfil the duties of their
present sphere will be called higher, either in this world or the next, for God means us to rise by our
fidelity where we are, and not by discontent with what we are. Ambition may have conscience
in it, and this will reveal itself in the steady and minute performance of small duties. Any
who are content, with tireless hand, to make crooked things straight and rough places plain, will
ultimately see glory revealed. But if ambition is not ruled by righteousness, if it is not modified
by love and consideration for others, it becomes a sin, and will prove to be the herald of
disobedience and death, for it is such ambition which has cursed the world by tyrannies and
bloodshed, and dragged down angels from realms of light.

This was the ambition which let Adonijah exalt himself, and say,
"I will be king."

It may be said that his conduct was natural enough, although it was too precipitate, because
he would legitimately succeed his father in due course, as his eldest surviving son. But this
was not so. The law of primogeniture was not law for Israel. The invisible King expressly reserved
to Himself the right of appointing the ruler of His people, as is evident from Deut. xvii. 14
and 15. The government was theocratic, not monarchical nor democratic. David himself had been
chosen and anointed in preference to Jonathan, Saul's son, and Solomon, David's younger son, had
already been designated as his successor through the prophet Nathan, partly because he was best fitted
to become the man of peace who should erect Jehovah's temple, and partly as a sign to David
that his sin with Bathsheba was forgiven. It was not as the "leader of a court cabal," but as
a prophet inspired by Jehovah, that Nathan had made this solemn appointment. Adonijah knew this
perfectly well; he acknowledged it to Bathsheba in the fifteenth verse of the second chapter,
and therefore, when he declared, "I will be king," he was deliberately and knowingly setting
his will against God's, and this was a sin.

The divine choice often differs from the human, for "the Lord seeth not as man seeth." In his reply
to the sons of Zebedee, Jesus declared that God is not swayed by
favouritism, nor moved by arbitrary impulse, but assigns to each his
position according to his fitness.

This should give us contentment with our lot, and should emphasise the precept, "Seekest thou great
things for thyself; seek them not." Though it is natural enough to wish for escape from the fret
of poverty, or the weariness of pain, and to win for ourselves wealth or prominence, we must
be on our guard against the indulgence of defiant self-will, like that of him who said, "I will
be king."

Adonijah's motive in aspiring to the throne was not that he might the better care for the welfare
of others, but that he might selfishly enjoy wealth and honour. He cared much for outward show,
while he failed to cultivate inward worth, preparing for himself chariots, horsemen, and a
retinue of servants, but never displaying a love of justice or ability in statesmanship. And
such little motives as his never make greatness.

Adonijah was not the last to be attracted by glitter and tinsel, and to live for earthly things
which perish in the using. The candidate who cares much for honour and nothing for learning,
the professional man who will sacrifice reputation to win a fortune, and all who wrong others
in order to better themselves, only gain what is transient and unsatisfying. It would be well
for all to learn the lesson (not least he for whom the ceremony is primarily intended), which
is symbolically taught when a Pope is crowned.

The Master of the Ceremonies takes a lighted taper in one hand, and in the other a reed with
a handful of flax fastened to it. The flax flares up for a moment, and then the flame dies
away into thin, almost imperceptible, ashes, which fall at the Pontiff's feet, as the choir
chant the refrain "Pater sanctus, sic transit gloria mundi." No earthly honour is worth having
except it is the result or the reward of character. Even in Pagan Rome the Temple of Honour could
only be reached through the Temple of Virtue. And over the gateway of the greatest of all kingdoms
in which Christ Jesus is supreme, this motto is inscribed indelibly-- "He that humbleth himself shall
be exalted, and he that exalteth himself shall be abased."

How often such ambition is accompanied by disregard of the rights of others! What did Adonijah care
for his father's dignity, or his brother's claims? David was still on the throne, and Solomon's
right to succeed him had been authoritatively proclaimed, and yet, with inbred selfishness,
this ambitious prince declared, "I will be king!"

The lawfulness of any ambition may often be tested by the amount of selfishness which inheres
in it. If desire for distinction, or wealth, leads one to crush a competitor to the wall without ruth,
or to refuse all help to others in a struggle where every man seems to fight for his own hand, its
lawfulness may well be questioned. Our Lord taught us to love even our enemies, and surely
competitors have a still stronger claim on our consideration, and certainly all who belong to
a church which is based on sacrifice, and symbolised by a cross, should even in such matters
deny themselves, and seek every man his neighbour's good.

All sin is the worse when it is committed, as Adonijah's was, in defiance of warning. He deliberately
repeated his brother's offence. Yet he knew the tragic story of his death, and how his brilliant
life had been ended by violence in a wood, where he perished without a friend; and he must
often have seen his father brooding alone over the trouble thus caused, as if he was still whispering
to himself: "O Absalom, my son, would God I had died for thee! O Absalom, my son, my son!" Yet the very
sin of Absalom which had been so terribly punished, Adonijah boldly
committed.

History is crowded with examples of ambitious men who died in disappointment and despair,-- Alexander,
who conquered a world, and then wept because there were no more worlds to conquer, perished
in a scene of debauchery, after setting fire to the city. Hannibal, who filled three bushel
measures with the gold rings of fallen knights, at last, by poison
self-administered, died unwept in a foreign land.

Caesar, who had practically the whole world at his feet, was stabbed to the heart by so-called
friends, even Brutus being among them. Napoleon, the scourge and conqueror of Europe, died,
a heart-broken exile, in St Helena. Indeed, it is written in letters of blood on the pages of
history, "The expectation of the wicked shall perish."

Happily, angels'voices are calling us to higher things. Conscience whispers to us of duty and
love. Christ Himself, from the Cross, which was the stepping-stone to His throne, still cries
to every one who will listen, "Follow me."

The false must be displaced by the true-- the world by the Christ-- the usurper by the Divinely-appointed
King. It was thus that Adonijah's scheme was defeated. Bathsheba, Solomon's mother, and Nathan,
the prophet, hurried in to tell David of Adonijah's revolt against his authority, and that
at his coronation-festival, then begun, even Joab, the commander-in-chief, and Abiathar, the
priest, were present. Then David's old decision and promptitude reasserted themselves once more.
At his command, Solomon, his designated successor, was seated on the King's own mule, and
rode in state to Gihon, where Zadok anointed him in Jehovah's name; and when the trumpet was
blown all the people said, "God save King Solomon!"

It was the crowning of the new king which proved the dethronement of the false; and this fact enshrines
a principle divine and permanent. False doctrine is overcome, not by abuse, but by the proclamation
of the true. Evil, whether enthroned in the heart or in the world, is conquered by greater good.
The strong man armed, only keeps his goods in peace, until One stronger than he comes to bind
him and cast him out. Christ conquers the devil, be he where he may. "For this purpose the Son of
God was manifested that He might destroy the works of the devil."

In the progress of Solomon, as he rode on his mule to Jerusalem, amid the acclamations of the
people, we see the Old Testament counterpart to the New Testament narrative, which tells how Christ
Jesus entered Jerusalem as its king, while the people met Him with welcomes, and with palms,
and children sang His praises. And in both is a symbol of His advent to every heart, and, if He be
but welcomed as rightful king, He will take to Himself His power,
and reign.

HIRAM, THE INSPIRED ARTIFICER BY REV. W. J. TOWNSEND, D. D. The Temple
of Solomon was the crown of art in the old world.

There were temples on a larger scale, and of more massive construction,
but the enormous masses of masonry of the oldest nations were not
comparable with the artistic grace, the luxurious adornments, and
the harmonious proportions of this glorious House of God.

David had laid up money and material for the great work, but he was not permitted to carry it out.
He was a man of war, and blood-stained hands were not to build the temple
of peace and righteousness. Solomon was the providential man for such
an undertaking. He had large ideas, a keen sense of beauty, generous instincts,
a religious nature, a literary training, and a highly cultivated
mind.

He was in peaceful alliance with surrounding nations, many of whom would be drawn into requisition
for the suitable materials. They had to supply the cedar wood, iron, copper, brass, tin, gold, silver,
and the rich fabrics which have made proverbial the sumptuous and beautiful raiment and decorations
of those times, with the rarest marbles that the quarries of Lebanon and Bezetha could contribute.
So with the thousands of busy builders and artificers, "Like some tall palm, the graceful fabric grew,"
until it stood complete on Mount Moriah, an inspiration to the people, a continual benediction
to the nation, and the envy of many a covetous conqueror. The name of one man only has been handed down the
ages as having specially signalised himself in the decoration of the temple. Solomon must procure
the best of human talent and genius for the perfection of the work
he meditated.

Therefore he not only made a treaty with Hiram, King of Tyre, for
supplies of material, but of workmen, and chief of these, one whose
artistic productions were to be the best adornments of the House of
God for succeeding centuries.

He was a tried veteran in decorative work, an expert in almost every kind of art, and fit to be
placed in the position of chief superintendent of so superb a building.

(2 Chron. ii. 13, i4). Another record says: "He was filled with wisdom, and understanding, and cunning
to work all works in brass" (1 Kings vii. 14). It is a significant fact in the history that Hiram, this expert
artificer, bearing the same name as his king, should have had an Israelitish mother, and a
Gentile father who had also been a worker in metal. Thus he got his artistic taste and training
from the father, his religious knowledge and sympathy from the mother. Religious feeling and sympathy
he certainly had, as his magnificent work in the temple fully demonstrated.
Hiram constructed of bright, burnished brass, an immense laver, called
"a molten sea," to be used for the ablutions of the priests.

It was capable of containing from fifteen to twenty thousand gallons of water, and the ornamentation
was elaborate exceedingly.

Under the brim were two rows of balls or bosses, encircling the laver. Twelve oxen, three looking
in four different directions, supported it, and the brim was wrought like the brim of a cup
with flowers of lilies. Beyond this, there were ten lavers, smaller in size, for the washing
of such things as were offered in sacrifice. These were carefully decorated with lions, oxen,
and cherubim on the borders of the ledges.

They stood upon bases, measuring 6 feet by 4 1/ 2 feet, ornamented carefully on each side with garlands
hanging in festoons, literally, "garlands, pensile work." Each base had brasen wheels attached,
with brasen axletrees, and brackets which stretched from the four upper corners of the bases
to the outward rim of the laver. All the furnishings were also made by Hiram, such as pots, basons, shovels;
probably also the golden altar, and table, with the seven-branched lamp stands, of which there
were ten, of beautiful construction and ornamentation. But the most glorious work of Hiram was
the construction of the two majestic brasen pillars, called Jachin and Boaz, They were stately
in height, the shaft of each measuring 27 feet, a base of 12 feet, and two capitals of 13 1/ 2
feet, thus the whole height of each pillar being 52 1/ 2 feet. The decoration was equally
graceful and elaborate, especially upon the capitals. The lower capitals had a fine network over
the whole, and chain-work hanging in festoons outside. There were also pomegranates wrought
upon them. The upper capitals, forming a cornice to the whole pillar, were ornamented with
lily-work. At Persepolis there still stands a pillar, the cornice of which is carved with three rows
of lily leaves. These pillars were esteemed the most important ornaments in the magnificent temple,
the erection of which was the best feature of Solomon's reign. They were
of such prominent importance that a name was affixed to each of them.
One was called "Jachin," which means, "he will establish," the other
was called "Boaz," which means "in strength." The ideas involved
are stability and strength. Possibly the Psalmist had these pillars
in his mind when he wrote, "Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary"
(Ps. xcvi. 6); strength first, then beauty; strength as the foundation
of divine work, then beauty, graceful finish, and ornament. Hiram
was an inspired artist and artificer. He was "filled with wisdom and understanding,
and cunning to work." (Exod. xxxi. 2-5). So also it is written of Aholiab,
Ahisamach, and other Tabernacle workers. It is instructive to find that
in Scripture, genius as displayed in literary insight and facility,
in ingenuity and inventiveness as to the various arts, and even in the conception
of instruments of husbandry, is attributed to Divine inspiration.
(2 Peter i. 21; 1 Peter i. 11); but the fact is clear, whether it was
inspiration of a different nature or in a different degree, that on
men of special gifts in various departments and of the highest order,
wisdom and understanding are a direct gift of the Holy Spirit.

This
truth was acknowledged in earliest times, and skilled experts in art
or handicraft were reckoned to be under the inspiration of God.
The spirit of knight-errantry was coming in, and we see that William himself in his younger
days was touched by it.  But we see also that coat-armour was as yet unknown.  Geoffrey and
his host, so the Normans say, shrink from the challenge and decamp in the night, leaving the
way open for a sudden march upon Alencon. The disloyal burghers received the duke with mockery
of his birth. They hung out skins, and shouted, "Hides for the Tanner."  Personal insult is
always hard for princes to bear, and the wrath of William was stirred up to a pitch which made
him for once depart from his usual moderation towards conquered enemies.  He swore that the
men who had jeered at him should be dealt with like a tree whose branches are cut off with
the pollarding-knife.  The town was taken by assault, and William kept his oath.  The castle
held out; the hands and feet of thirty-two pollarded burghers of Alencon were thrown over its
walls, and the threat implied drove the garrison to surrender on promise of safety for life
and limb.  The defenders of Domfront, struck with fear, surrendered also, and kept their arms
as well as their lives and limbs.  William had thus won back his own rebellious town, and had
enlarged his borders by his first conquest.  He went farther south, and fortified another castle
at Ambrieres; but Ambrieres was only a temporary conquest.  Domfront has ever since been counted
as part of Normandy.  But, as ecclesiastical divisions commonly preserve the secular divisions
of an earlier time, Domfront remained down to the great French Revolution in the spiritual
jurisdiction of the bishops of Le Mans.

William had now shown himself in Maine as conqueror, and he was before long to show himself
in England, though not yet as conqueror.  If our chronology is to be trusted, he had still
in this interval to complete his conquest of his own duchy by securing the surrender of Brionne;
and two other events, both characteristic, one of them memorable, fill up the same time. William
now banished a kinsman of his own name, who held the great county of Mortain, Moretoliam or
Moretonium, in the diocese of Avranches, which must be carefully distinguished from Mortagne-en-
Perche, Mauritania or Moretonia in the diocese of Seez.  This act, of somewhat doubtful justice,
is noteworthy on two grounds.  First, the accuser of the banished count was one who was then
a poor serving-knight of his own, but who became the forefather of a house which plays a great
part in English history, Robert surnamed the Bigod.  Secondly, the vacant county was granted
by William to his own half-brother Robert.  He had already in 1048 bestowed the bishopric of
Bayeux on his other half-brother Odo, who cannot at that time have been more than twelve years
old.  He must therefore have held the see for a good while without consecration, and at no
time of his fifty years' holding of it did he show any very episcopal merits.  This was the
last case in William's reign of an old abuse by which the chief church preferments in Normandy
had been turned into means of providing for members, often unworthy members, of the ducal family;
and it is the only one for which William can have been personally responsible.  Both his brothers
were thus placed very early in life among the chief men of Normandy, as they were in later
years to be placed among the chief men of England.  But William's affection for his brothers,
amiable as it may have been personally, was assuredly not among the brighter parts of his character
as a sovereign.

The other chief event of this time also concerns the domestic side of William's life.  The
long story of his marriage now begins.  The date is fixed by one of the decrees of the council
of Rheims held in 1049 by Pope Leo the Ninth, in which Baldwin Count of Flanders is forbidden
to give his daughter to William the Norman.  This implies that the marriage was already thought
of, and further that it was looked on as uncanonical.  The bride whom William sought, Matilda
daughter of Baldwin the Fifth, was connected with him by some tie of kindred or affinity which
made a marriage between them unlawful by the rules of the Church.  But no genealogist has yet
been able to find out exactly what the canonical hindrance was.  It is hard to trace the descent
of William and Matilda up to any common forefather.  But the light which the story throws on
William's character is the same in any case.  Whether he was seeking a wife or a kingdom, he
would have his will, but he could wait for it.  In William's doubtful position, a marriage
with the daughter of the Count of Flanders would be useful to him in many ways; and Matilda
won her husband's abiding love and trust. Strange tales are told of William's wooing.  Tales
are told also of Matilda's earlier love for the Englishman Brihtric, who is said to have found
favour in her eyes when he came as envoy from England to her father's court.  All that is certain
is that the marriage had been thought of and had been forbidden before the next important event
in William's life that we have to record.

Was William's Flemish marriage in any way connected with his hopes of succession to the English
crown?  Had there been any available bride for him in England, it might have been for his interest
to seek for her there.  But it should be noticed, though no ancient writer points out the fact,
that Matilda was actually descended from Alfred in the female line; so that William's children,
though not William himself, had some few drops of English blood in their veins.  William or
his advisers, in weighing every chance which might help his interests in the direction of England,
may have reckoned this piece of rather ancient genealogy among the advantages of a Flemish
alliance.  But it is far more certain that, between the forbidding of the marriage and the
marriage itself, a direct hope of succession to the English crown had been opened to the Norman
duke.

CHAPTER III--WILLIAM'S FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND--A.D. 1051-1052

While William was strengthening himself in Normandy, Norman influence in England had risen
to its full height.  The king was surrounded by foreign favourites.  The only foreign earl
was his nephew Ralph of Mentes, the son of his sister Godgifu.  But three chief bishoprics
were held by Normans, Robert of Canterbury, William of London, and Ulf of Dorchester.  William
bears a good character, and won the esteem of Englishmen; but the unlearned Ulf is emphatically
said to have done "nought bishoplike."  Smaller preferments in Church and State, estates in
all parts of the kingdom, were lavishly granted to strangers.  They built castles, and otherwise
gave offence to English feeling.  Archbishop Robert, above all, was ever plotting against Godwine,
Earl of the West- Saxons, the head of the national party.  At last, in the autumn of 1051,
the national indignation burst forth.  The immediate occasion was a visit paid to the King
by Count Eustace of Boulogne, who had just married the widowed Countess Godgifu.  The violent
dealings of his followers towards the burghers of Dover led to resistance on their part, and
to a long series of marches and negotiations, which ended in the banishment of Godwine and
his son, and the parting of his daughter Edith, the King's wife, from her husband.  From October
1051 to September 1052, the Normans had their own way in England.  And during that time King
Edward received a visitor of greater fame than his brother-in-law from Boulogne in the person
of his cousin from Rouen.

Of his visit we only read that "William Earl came from beyond sea with mickle company of Frenchmen,
and the king him received, and as many of his comrades as to him seemed good, and let him go
again." Another account adds that William received great gifts from the King.  But William
himself in several documents speaks of Edward as his lord; he must therefore at some time have
done to Edward an act of homage, and there is no time but this at which we can conceive such
an act being done.  Now for what was the homage paid?  Homage was often paid on very trifling
occasions, and strange conflicts of allegiance often followed.  No such conflict was likely
to arise if the Duke of the Normans, already the man of the King of the French for his duchy,
became the man of the King of the English on any other ground.  Betwixt England and France
there was as yet no enmity or rivalry.  England and France became enemies afterwards because
the King of the English and the Duke of the Normans were one person.  And this visit, this
homage, was the first step towards making the King of the English and the Duke of the Normans
the same person.  The claim William had to the English crown rested mainly on an alleged promise
of the succession made by Edward. This claim is not likely to have been a mere shameless falsehood. It
is the easiest thing in the world to undo and overturn; there is no cleverness and courage required
for destroying, the cleverness and courage are called for in building
it up.

Manasseh succeeded to his heart's content. People followed him greedily, except the steadfast few.
And presently the prophets were all gone, and the worship of the true God was nowhere practised
except in secret, and the sacred names were no more mentioned, and the land gave itself up
to all the foul rites and the shameful indulgences of the heathen world, And then God's retribution
came swiftly. Where the rotting carcase was, there the eagles gathered together. These same Babylonians
whose ways the renegade Jews had so much admired and imitated, swept down upon them with the
talons of a vulture, with cruelty that spared neither tender woman nor innocent child, and
Jerusalem was burned with fire, and Manasseh carried off in chains and flung into a foreign prison
to muse in solitude over the end of his projects, and to find out there that the old ways had
been the best.

There we are told that he repented, that he was stricken with shame because of all the evil that he
had done, and turned with prayer and humility to the God whom he had defied. And we are told that
God was merciful and heard his entreaties, and accepted his repentance, and brought him back
after sorrowful years of imprisonment to his land and throne. This is the part of the story which most
people emphasise. That, they say, is the main lesson of the story-- Manasseh's repentance, and
how God accepted the rebellious sinner at the last and forgave him all his iniquities-- and
they draw from that the conclusion that it is never too late to turn to God, and that all the
dark doings of a man's life are swept clean away, if at any time
the heart repents and believes.

But this is not the part of the story which the sacred writers dwell upon. In the Book of Kings,
where there is another version of Manasseh's doings, no mention is made whatever of the repentance,
and here it is only briefly recorded, and in a somewhat sorrowful
tone.

He came back humbled and forgiven, indeed, but not in a happy state of mind. He came back to a ruined
kingdom; to a sinful and demoralised and destitute people; to see
everywhere the sorrow, and the evil and the misery and shame which
his doings had caused; to be reminded continually that his life had
been a great wicked and foolish blunder, and that there was no undoing
the mischief which he had done.

For the sake of his repentance he was spared a little longer, but there could be little joy in
the remaining years of a life like that.

I think that that is the experience of most men who turn away in their youth from the example
and precepts of godly fathers, who reject the truths which make life
sober and strong, who betake themselves to thoughts of infidelity
and ways of sin, and fancy that they can live life happily without
God and prayer.

There comes a time when they are made to feel that their life has been a mistake, that it would
have been far better for them to have stuck to the old ways, that those believing fathers whom
they laughed at were right after all; perhaps they repent and go back to God at last, and
He accepts them; but whether repentant or not, they always carry with them an awful burden. Shame
is upon them for the evil they have done, shame for the life that has been spent to so little
purpose, regret and humbling that they cannot undo the blind and guilty past. Repentance at
the best is a poor business when it comes in the evening hours of life. Better then than never;
but better far to have gone with God from the beginning. That, I think, is the lesson which the wise
man will find in the story of the evil king. 9.

Amaziah, King of Judah, belonged to that numerous class of men who wish to stand well with both
worlds. He was what we call in religious matters half-and-half. He wanted to secure the favour
and protection of God without losing much or anything of the ungodly helps and advantages. One
hardly knows whether to describe him as a bad sort of good man, or a better sort of bad man. He was
like those gentlemen in the Pilgrim's Progress whom Bunyan names Mr Facing-both-ways and Mr
Pliable. It depended very much on the company he was in, whether he showed a religious face
or assumed the other character.

We have an illustration of this doubleness in the incident recorded here. He was preparing
to go to war against the neighbouring nation of the Edomites, or
probably he had learned that they were about to make war on him.

For these neighbours, like some others you know, were always ready to pick a quarrel. Edomite
and Jew were never long without a scrimmage or a battle. Amaziah, with this business on hand,
took count of his forces, found that he had three hundred thousand soldiers; big enough battalions
if they had only had a leader with a big heart. David had scattered those Edomites with an army
not one-twentieth part the size of that. But Amaziah was not a David. He must needs have more
men. He sent, therefore, to the king of Israel to hire another hundred thousand, and paid him
down an enormous sum of money for the loan. Now these men of Israel and their king had fallen
away from God, and become heathen people, worshippers of Baal, foul and immoral as the Edomites
themselves.

But Amaziah thought that was of no consequence so long as he could increase his fighting force.
The money was paid, and the hundred thousand hirelings came.

And then suddenly appeared another man whom he had not sent for, one of those prophets or preachers
whom kings and other people find very troublesome at times, who upset all the nice arrangements,
and stop the business which promises so well, with an unwelcome "Thus saith the Lord"; prophets
who do not know how to flatter, who cannot be bought for a hundred talents, or for any price,
and who say what God has given them to say whether the great folk like it or not. This man came
uninvited, and told the king that he must pack off these mercenaries to their own country again,
for God was not with them, and God would not be with him if he joined hands with idolaters and paid
them to fight his battles.

It was an awkward position. Amaziah knew that what the prophet said was true, and he believed,
moreover, that if God should turn against him, that business with the Edomites was likely to
end badly for him.

But, on the other hand, to send that goodly array of fighting men away and lose all that gold
into the bargain, was both galling to his pride and a ridiculous waste of treasure. He knew
well what was the right thing to do, but to do it at such a sacrifice, that was the difficulty.
The Lord is able to do for thee much more than the hundred talents
are worth.

"And now, out of this old story, we learn some lessons for this and
every day.

I. Our difficulties in the way of serving and obeying God are often
self-made.

They are always more or less self-made.

This man pleads his own wrong act as a reason why he should not do right now. He himself has raised
the obstacle which now stands in the way of obedience. He ought not to have sought the help of
an idolatrous king. He ought not to have bargained for these hirelings, he ought not to have paid
the money. God had not put the difficulty in his way; his own foolish and wicked action had
created it. And people are constantly talking as this man talked, declaring that there are
hindrances and immense difficulties which prevent them from doing
what is right, prevent them from doing what they know to be the will
of God.

They talk as if God was somehow responsible for those hindrances, when, in fact, their own
wrong-doing has caused them.

For instance, some of you know perfectly well that you ought to be
Christians, avowed Christians, that you ought to take the Lord's side
in the great battle of life; you know that you ought to be His servants,
followers, and soldiers; you know that that is your duty, you cannot
help knowing it and admitting it, unless you reject the Bible altogether,
and deny the whole Gospel of Jesus Christ.

You have known from childhood that Christ has claims upon you, and that to live the Christian
life is your solemn obligation. It is more than probable that you told your mother, your teachers,
and yourselves long ago, and perhaps many a time over, that you fully intended to give your
lives and hearts to Christ's service. But you have not done it yet, and the reason is that there are
certain self-made difficulties which hold you back. God has not put them in the way-- you have
built them up yourselves. I hear young men and women say, in the very tone of this perplexed
king. But what shall we do for the hundred talents? If we take up religion, how shall we bear
the loss which it involves? How are we to get on without those pleasures, self-indulgences, and
dearly-loved habits which Christ's service would cut us off from? How are we to abandon those
very pleasant, but not very inspiring and pure, companionships, with and among which we spend
most of our leisure time? How are we to resign all our free and easy and thoughtless ways,
our loose talk, our vain and sinful imaginations?

These are your difficulties, are they? But who made them for you? Heaven did not send them.
I am not sure, even, that the devil was the author of them. You made every one of them yourselves.
It was your own weak yielding that formed those habits so dear to you. It was because you preferred
your own way to God's that you took to pleasures and self-indulgences which were wrong in His
sight. It was your own choice that sought out and formed friendships and companionships of the
ungodly sort. If you have any joys, delights, and associations which Christ would compel you
to resign, they are only such as you ought never to have entered
upon.

They are self-made difficulties which ought never to have been made; and now, with curious
inconsistency, you are urging them as reasons why you cannot serve God. You are using the sinful
things which you have done in the past as an excuse for not doing the right and noble thing
now.

There are hundreds of people who, if they could begin again, would join the ranks of the religious-- at
least they think they would, and perhaps say it. If we could just start with a clean sheet, we
would be Christians, we would walk in the noble and faithful way. But then, you see, we cannot
undo the years that have been lived in the other way. We have committed ourselves to the irreligious
side. We have made all who know us understand that we do not care about religious things. We
have talked about them carelessly, perhaps contemptuously, as if we put no value upon them at
all. We have made a reputation of that sort, and now it stands in the way. We cannot go back of
all our old professions; the inconsistency would be manifest. No one expects it of us. No one
would believe if we did it. There you have the self-made difficulties again. Because you did
wrong all those years, you must needs go on doing wrong. Because you talked and acted in an
unbelieving way, you must not now change into the higher and prayerful way. Because you have
robbed God and your own souls so long, there is nothing for you but
to continue repeating the offence.

Yet these, when you name them, are so absurd, that one could almost laugh at them. The conviction
that you have hitherto been on the wrong side is the one thing that ought to force you now
to the right side. Why should you perpetuate blunders, follies, and misdoings? Why should the
evil past chain you? Let the dead bury its dead-- forget the things which are behind. You have paid
the hundred talents to the wrong master. Why should you go on paying because you have done
it once? Let God's mercy cover and forgive that. And now pay your vows and give your lives
to Him henceforth.

II.

We are held back from the right thing by the fear of the loss which
it will involve.

We say with poor, frightened Amaziah, But what about the hundred talents? They will be clean gone
if I obey the voice of God. The hundred talents take many forms, but the principle is always
the same. We shall lose a little in the way of business, if we make up our minds to be scrupulously
honest, and to speak the simple truth. We shall forfeit a little of our present popularity, if we
take the course which conscience dictates.

We shall have to forego and neglect certain things, and suffer loss, if we undertake Christian work.
We shall have to give up many an easy hour, many a light and frivolous hour, many an open and
secret sin, sweeter to us than honey, if we confess the Lord Christ, and take up the burden
of discipleship. The hundred talents block the way, and rather than let them go, we let God go,
and sacrifice all the sanctities, and all the precious and immortal
things.

And this answer comes to all of us-- the answer which the prophet gave to the hesitating king
as he stood balancing the hundred talents against the duty of the hour:" The Lord is able
to give thee much more than this. "Better to win thy great battle and lose the talents, than
keep the money and lose thyself and everything in the impending struggle. God is not so poor
that He cannot pay His servants as ample wages as they ever get from other masters. It is not
the same kind of pay, but it is always, in the long-run, larger and better. No man ever does
the right thing at God's command, without receiving eventually sufficient wages for it-- joy even
in this life. Whatever immediate losses he may incur, there will
be more than compensating gains.

The man who lives an upright, conscientious, pure and kindly life, wronging no one, showing
justice and mercy to all, is always the happier man; richer in all his thoughts and emotions,
richer in friendships and affections, richer in peace of mind, in abiding satisfactions, richer
in hopes. He has within him a well-spring of joy which never ceases to flow. Righteousness is not
a losing business: it has the best part in this life, and in that
which is to come.

Whatever you resign at Christ's call: whatever His service costs you in the way of sacrifice: however
much you must give up in the shape of pleasure, ease, and agreeable habits-- there will be more given
to you in return. When Christ asked the disciples to leave all things and follow Him, He said
nothing about the rewards-- not just then. He told them to take up their cross and come after
Him; that was all. He spoke often to them about the pains they would have to endure, the scorn
they would meet with, the tribulation they would have to pass through. When he called the last
of the apostles, Paul, He even said, and it was the only promise He gave," I will show him how great
things he must suffer for My name's sake "(Acts ix. 16). No talk of rewards and gains at first.
He knew the men. He knew their eagerness to do what was right and to obey the voice of God. Men
who have the right spirit, men with some fire of enthusiasm, do not need crowns held before
them to draw them into the true and noble way. They are almost glad to think that crosses and
self-sacrifices await them in that way.

Christ spoke no words at the beginning about gains and rewards. Come, because I want you, and
God asks you, and it is your duty: but afterwards, when they had obeyed His call, He talked to
them often about the gains. They had begun to understand them then. There is no man who hath
left anything for My sake, who shall not receive a hundredfold in this present time, and in the
world to come, life everlasting.

And we all learn in a measure what that means, when we have faithfully served Christ for a little
time. You talk about the sacrifices and losses of the Christian life. Yes, but no man is fit
to be called a Christian who has not found in Christ ten or twenty times as much joy as he
has lost. If there were no hereafter, no future crowns at all, it would be a terrible disappointment,
but even, apart from that, the present life of every one who believes in Christ and does Christ's
work, and loves as Christ loved, is richer, fuller, wider, and happier in almost every way than
the life which knows Him not. What about the hundred talents? you say, and I answer with the
prophet," The Lord is able to give thee much more than this.

"JABEZ BY REV. J. G. GREENHOUGH, M. A."

And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren.

"-- 1 CHRON. iv, 9.

This is a curious fragment of biography, half-hidden in a dreary mass of wholly uninteresting names.
We cannot conjecture how it got there. It seems to have no connection either with what comes
before or what follows. It is like a sweet little poem in the midst of a dry, genealogical chart;
or like a real, living face with the flush of warm colour in it, speaking amid endless rows of
mummies or waxwork effigies.

It is indeed the short, incomplete story of a life with neither beginning nor end. We are not
told who his father was, or who his mother was, or what tribe or family he belonged to. Not a
word about origin, descent, pedigree. And there seems to be a purpose in this. For the sacred
writer at this point is doing nothing else but tracing pedigrees. These four chapters are to
us the most useless in the Bible: names, nothing but long-forgotten
names.

Names of everybody's father, grandfather, great-grandfather, back to a remote antiquity. I question
whether there are many Bible readers who have ever laboured through the list. Yet these family
trees, as we may call them, were very precious to the Jews. They thought as much of long descent
as my lord Noodle does now. It swelled them immeasurably in self-importance if they could trace
their lineage back in unbroken line to one of the twelve patriarchs,
or to one of those who came out of Egypt. And the historian ministers
to this prejudice or vanity by diligently recording the whole dry
catalogue, and then, as if weary of the business, or, perhaps, with
just a touch of scorn, he introduces this one name as something worth
talking about.

Here was a god-made nobleman, whose heraldry need
not be written on earth, because it is more surely written in heaven.
All the rest were their fathers'sons, and that was about all. This
man did not need a pedigree: he won a name and reputation for himself
without the help of a distinguished ancestry. By prayerfulness, and
energy, and courage, he fought his way from obscurity to honour. And
when that happens, when a man has fought the fight with adverse circumstances
and overcome them, when he has made his mark in the world by sheer
force of work and character, no one cares to grope through musty fusty
parchments in search of his progenitors. What does it matter! God
has given him a certificate of noble birth; that was surely what the
historian meant:" Jabez was more honourable than his brethren.

"Now
there are two or three touches in this little story worth noticing.
God sends us some of our best joys in the guise of sorrows.

I. He came into the world without a welcome.

I
venture to say, and I thank God for it, that there is hardly one
of my readers of whom that can be said.

No matter into what home you
were born, there was a welcome awaiting you on the part of one at least.
It may be that no one else was particularly glad, that every one else
looked upon you as one too many; but your mother at least met you with
a sweet kiss which plainly said, thank God for this gift. Here, however,
there was not even that; this child was received with misgivings and
fears, and awoke no joy in the mother's breast. She called his name
Jabez, which means sorrowful, because she had borne him in sorrow.
Of course, we do not know what lies behind that, but it was something
of a heart-burning or heart-breaking kind; either the father was
dead, or the home was in a state of terrible poverty and distress,
or the child was a child of shame; you can only guess, and all your
queries will probably be wide of the mark.

But the mother
looked mournfully upon him, and wished he had not come, and could not believe
that a life which commenced so untowardly would ever be anything better
than a burden to her, and a misfortune and misery to himself.  Harold, who refused to lay waste a rood of English ground,
would hardly have looked quietly on while many roods of English ground were wasted by the enemy.
With all the valour of the Normans, what before all things distinguished them from other nations
was their craft.  William could indeed fight a pitched battle when a pitched battle served
his purpose; but he could control himself, he could control his followers, even to the point
of enduring to look quietly on the havoc of their own land till the right moment.  He who could
do this was indeed practising for his calling as Conqueror.  And if the details of the story,
details specially characteristic, are to be believed, William showed something also of that
grim pleasantry which was another marked feature in the Norman character.  The startling message
which struck the French army with panic was deliberately sent with that end.  The messenger
sent climbs a tree or a rock, and, with a voice as from another world, bids the French awake;
they are sleeping too long; let them go and bury their friends who are lying dead at Mortemer.
These touches bring home to us the character of the man and the people with whom our forefathers
had presently to deal.  William was the greatest of his race, but he was essentially of his
race; he was Norman to the backbone.

Of the French army one division had been surprised and cut to pieces, the other had left Normandy
without striking a blow.  The war was not yet quite over; the French still kept Tillieres;
William accordingly fortified the stronghold of Breteuil as a cheek upon it.  And he entrusted
the command to a man who will soon be memorable, his personal friend William, son of his old
guardian Osbern.  King Henry was now glad to conclude a peace on somewhat remarkable terms.
William had the king's leave to take what he could from Count Geoffrey of Anjou.  He now annexed
Cenomannian-- that is just now Angevin--territory at more points than one, but chiefly on the
line of his earlier advances to Domfront and Ambrieres.  Ambrieres had perhaps been lost; for
William now sent Geoffrey a challenge to come on the fortieth day.  He came on the fortieth
day, and found Ambrieres strongly fortified and occupied by a Norman garrison.  With Geoffrey
came the Breton prince Ode, and William or Peter Duke of Aquitaine.  They besieged the castle;
but Norman accounts add that they all fled on William's approach to relieve it.

Three years of peace now followed, but in 1058 King Henry, this time in partnership with Geoffrey
of Anjou, ventured another invasion of Normandy.  He might say that he had never been fairly
beaten in his former campaign, but that he had been simply cheated out of the land by Norman
wiles.  This time he had a second experience of Norman wiles and of Norman strength too.  King
and Count entered the land and ravaged far and wide.  William, as before, allowed the enemy
to waste the land.  He watched and followed them till he found a favourable moment for attack.
The people in general zealously helped the Duke's schemes, but some traitors of rank were still
leagued with the Count of Anjou.  While William bided his time, the invaders burned Caen. 
This place, so famous in Norman history, was not one of the ancient cities of the land.  It
was now merely growing into importance, and it was as yet undefended by walls or castle.  But
when the ravagers turned eastward, William found the opportunity that he had waited for.  As
the French were crossing the ford of Varaville on the Dive, near the mouth of that river, he
came suddenly on them, and slaughtered a large part of the army under the eyes of the king
who had already crossed.  The remnant marched out of Normandy.

Henry now made peace, and restored Tillieres.  Not long after, in 1060, the King died, leaving
his young son Philip, who had been already crowned, as his successor, under the guardianship
of William's father-in-law Baldwin.  Geoffrey of Anjou and William of Aquitaine also died,
and the Angevin power was weakened by the division of Geoffrey's dominions between his nephews.
William's position was greatly strengthened, now that France, under the new regent, had become
friendly, while Anjou was no longer able to do mischief.  William had now nothing to fear from
his neighbours, and the way was soon opened for his great continental conquest.  But what effect
had these events on William's views on England?  About the time of the second French invasion
of Normandy Earl Harold became beyond doubt the first man in England, and for the first time
a chance of the royal succession was opened to him.  In 1057, the year before Varaville, the
AEtheling Edward, the King's selected successor, died soon after his coming to England; in
the same year died the King's nephew Earl Ralph and Leofric Earl of the Mercians, the only
Englishmen whose influence could at all compare with that of Harold.  Harold's succession now
became possible; it became even likely, if Edward should die while Edgar the son of the AEtheling
was still under age.  William had no shadow of excuse for interfering, but he doubtless was
watching the internal affairs of England.  Harold was certainly watching the affairs of Gaul.
About this time, most likely in the year 1058, he made a pilgrimage to Rome, and on his way
back he looked diligently into the state of things among the various vassals of the French
crown.  His exact purpose is veiled in ambiguous language; but we can hardly doubt that his
object was to contract alliances with the continental enemies of Normandy.  Such views looked
to the distant future, as William had as yet been guilty of no unfriendly act towards England.
But it was well to come to an understanding with King Henry, Count Geoffrey, and Duke William
of Aquitaine, in case a time should come when their interests and those of England would be
the same.  But the deaths of all those princes must have put an end to all hopes of common
action between England and any Gaulish power.  The Emperor Henry also, the firm ally of England,
was dead. It was now clear that, if England should ever have to withstand a Norman attack,
she would have to withstand it wholly by her own strength, or with such help as she might find
among the kindred powers of the North.

William's great continental conquest is drawing nigh; but between the campaign of Varaville
and the campaign of Le Mans came the tardy papal confirmation of William's marriage.  The Duke
and Duchess, now at last man and wife in the eye of the Church, began to carry out the works
of penance which were allotted to them.  The abbeys of Caen, William's Saint Stephen's, Matilda's
Holy Trinity, now began to arise.  Yet, at this moment of reparation, one or two facts seem
to place William's government of his duchy in a less favourable light than usual.  The last
French invasion was followed by confiscations and banishments among the chief men of Normandy.
Roger of Montgomery and his wife Mabel, who certainly was capable of any deed of blood or treachery,
are charged with acting as false accusers.  We see also that, as late as the day of Varaville,
there were Norman traitors.  Robert of Escalfoy had taken the Angevin side, and had defended
his castle against the Duke.  He died in a strange way, after snatching an apple from the hand
of his own wife.  His nephew Arnold remained in rebellion three years, and was simply required
to go to the wars in Apulia. You ought not to be there. Remember Ahaziah.

And there are some evil natures and some evil things which a man cannot touch in even the slightest
degree without being led on from step to step, as Ahaziah was, until
he was in the thick of Jehoram's iniquity.

A young woman cannot enter a gin-palace and drink her glass at the counter-- as I see scores
do any night-- without gradually going further and losing all the modesty and grace of womanhood.
A young man cannot touch gambling in any of its forms without almost inevitably being drawn
under its fascinations, as one who is slowly involved in a wily serpent's coils. An English bishop
thinks and has said that a little betting is allowable, that if you only indulge moderately
in it, you may do it with impunity. He might as well have said that if you only steal coppers
the law will smile upon you, but if you steal gold you will come in for its stripes. He might as
well have said, "If you only put your little finger in this fire it will not hurt you, but if
you thrust your whole hand in, it will burn." There can be no moderation in a thing which is essentially
and in all its principles based on dishonesty and corruption, and evil excitement and evil greed.
I am profoundly sorry that such a thing has been said by one whose word has so much authority and
influence. It will be taken by thousands as an encouragement to do what they are only too prone
and eager to do. Who shall curse what a father in Christ has condescended to bless? We need
rather to have all Christian hands and voices raised in passionate and tearful denunciation of
that which is doing more than anything else to demoralise our youth and eat away the very morals
of the nation. We need to warn against it and denounce it in whatever form and degree it is practised,
and to say, "Touch not, taste not, handle not the accursed thing."

We must keep away altogether from the men who delight in evil paths, and from the things, the
very touch of which defiles. Go not in their way, pass not by it. "If sinners entice thee, consent
thou not." Learn the lesson of Ahaziah's life, and how his fall came because he consorted with
wickeder men than himself, and was anxious to see their doings.

Elisha and Gehazi were master and man. They were more. They were almost father and son. Elisha
calls him "my heart," just as Paul calls Onesimus his heart. Yet they parted so.-- "He went
out from his presence a leper." The punishment was terrible. Was it deserved? Had the master
a right to pass this sentence? "The leprosy of Naaman"-- yes! but had Gehazi caught nothing from
Elisha?

Most commentators fall on Gehazi with one accord. He is pilloried as a liar. He is branded as a thief.
He is bracketed with Achan, and coupled with Judas. They flatter the master, they are hard on the
man. But this is surely a very false reading of facts. By clothing the prophet in spotless white,
and tarring Gehazi a deep black all over, we violate the truth of things and miss the lesson of
the story, which, like the sword-flames at Eden's gate, turn many
ways.

To take but one out of its numerous suggestions, we have here a story for servants of all sorts,
and for masters and mistresses too, of all kinds.

The section is rich in domestic interiors. Servants have always formed important members of
the household, and often their service has risen to be a beautiful
and holy ministry.

We see here, for example, a great Eastern lady, Naaman's wife, and her little Jewish maid,
whom the fortunes of war had swept from her home "in the land of Israel." In the division of
the spoil, this human mite had fallen to Naaman's share, and drifted into his lady's service.
The slave-child has evidently reached the woman, perhaps the hungering
mother's heart, in her mistress; and the sorrow of the woman, for
alas! she is a leper's wife, has touched the servant's heart.

The burning sense of the wrong to herself is cooled and quenched by the pity she feels for
her master; and the expedition that brought health to Naaman, and unspeakable joy to Naaman's
wife, was the outcome of a word she spoke. She knew of Elisha, she said what she knew, and
great things came of it.

She did this, not as a slave of Naaman's wife, but as a free human soul, and servant of God. No
tyranny could extort this service. No wealth could pay for this golden secret. Sometimes a
character appears but once in the course of a great drama. The man or woman, comes on the stage
to deliver one message, and then disappears. But that one brief word has its place in the
playwright's scheme, and its effect on the action of the piece. This child was sent to Syria to
utter one speech, to speak one name, and because she spoke her little speech, kindly and clearly,
things went better with ever so many people.

"A fair day's wage for a fair day's work," but let there be more than money in the wage, and more
than labour in the service. Let no one, in being a servant, cease to be a free human soul. Do you
serve in Syria? Is your lot cast among those that know not the Prophet? Well, but you are from
the land of Israel; speak your speech, tell out the Prophet's name. Be more than servant, more than
clerk, more than a "hand," an apprentice, a journeyman; be a soul, an influence, a link with higher
things, a reminder of God, a minister of Christ.

Naaman, too, was happy in his servants. He was a Bismarckian, peppery man. Accustomed to command, he
expected miracles to be done to order, and prophets to toe the line. And because he did not like
Elisha's manner nor his prescription, he was on the point of returning to Syria in a rage.
But he had servants that knew him through and through. They knew what note to sound, and they saved
him from himself. The expedition had been suggested by a servant who generously paid good
for evil. It was saved from defeat by servants who did for kindness what no contract could have
specified and no wage could cover. They also were souls who knew at times that man was created
for spiritual service.

But Elisha, too, though doubtless poor, had his servant, and an efficient, tactful servant he
was.

A very good book might be written on "poor men's servants." For they have had of the very best.
The whole world knows Boswell, and with all his faults it loves him still, for he was loyal to
a royal soul. Well, most great men have had their Boswells. When all is known it will be found
that the men of the five talents have owed much of their success and more of their happiness
to the fidelity and love of men of the one talent.

How well Gehazi served Elisha! How nobly the servant comes out in that exquisite story of the
Lady of Shunem. How jealous he is of his master's honour! How dear he was to Elisha's soul, "my
heart! my other self!" And yet, he did this thing. He lied, he cheated, he obtained goods by
false pretences, he lowered the prophet in Naaman's sight; and after all his years of noble
service, his master smote him with his curse, and he went out of
his presence a leper!

But was Naaman's the only leprosy that infected Gehazi? Had Elisha any share in his fall? After
all, it is a sorry business to heal a stranger and send forth one's
own friend in this fashion.

Nothing can exonerate Gehazi. His lie remains a lie, say what you will. But our business is
not to apportion blame, but to try to find out how such things came to be, in order to guard against
them in our own homes. If a servant leaves your employ poorer in character than when she came
to you, if a youth leaves your business harder, colder, weaker in will, further from God than
when you received him from home, it is a clear case for inquiry. It is our duty to see that
young people are not exposed to moral infection in our homes.

In the matter of physical infection, two facts are familiar to us all. The first is, that mischief
enters the system by means of a germ; and the second is, that the action of the germ depends
very much on the condition of health in which it finds a man. If the man is healthy, he is often proof
against the arrow that fleeth by day, and the pestilence that walketh in darkness. But if the
body is already enfeebled, the germs find half their work done for
them beforehand.

Well now, these natural laws are valid in the spiritual world. The rules of moral hygiene are
summed up in our Lord's prayer, "Lead us not into temptation," that is to say, do not breathe
the germ-laden air, and in St Paul's precept, "Be strong in the Lord," cultivate general spiritual
health, safety lies in strength. Good health is the best prophylactic. There is no precaution
so effective as being well.

Now what have we in this narrative? When the prophet permitted Naaman to bow in the temple
of Rimmon he did very right, say the chorus of commentators. But the common-sense of mankind
has taken a different view. Bowing in the temple of Rimmon has become a byword and a reproach.
It signifies something which men feel is not quite right. It was, in fact, an indulgence.
Still, perhaps it was wise not to force the new-born convert. Perhaps it did Naaman no harm.
Possibly it did Elisha's soul no injury to be so far complaisant towards idolatry. But surely
there was a germ of evil in the thing, and this germ found a nidus, found a nest in Gehazi's
soul, in which to hatch its evil brood. It lighted on Gehazi at the psychological moment. He
had seen the gorgeous equipage. He had gazed on the ingots of gold and the great bars of silver.
He had fingered the silks and brocades. Elisha had waved them away. To him they were as child's
trinkets. But he had other resources than Gehazi, and when the cavalcade drew off, leaving
nothing of its treasures behind, his longing grew into a fever of desire. It was so mad of the
master to let all that gold and silver go, and he so poor! Gehazi had to bear the brunt of the
poverty, and tax his five wits to make ends meet. And to think that a gold mine had come to
their very door and they had refused to let it in!

But it is too late now-- and yet why should it be too late? The company moves slowly. One could
easily catch up with it. But what to say?

Pilgrims sometimes knock at Elisha's door. Sons of the prophets from the college on Mount Ephraim
often come to see the master. There were two last week, or was it the week before? Without doubt
we shall have others soon, for they like to talk to the master. They are miserably poor like
ourselves, but they have good appetites. Naaman would be delighted to leave something for
them. He would feel easier in his mind. It would be a kindness to let him give something. True,
we have none of them in the house at this moment. But we have had
and we shall have.

If I say we have them now-- well, that will only be making a little bow in the temple of Rimmon.
Naaman means to do that. Master allows him to do it. We must not be too strict. "As the Lord
liveth I will run after him and take somewhat of him!" Elisha was hurt, shamed, and angry.
The sin was great and terrible. Yet, perhaps, had Gehazi met Elijah this would not have happened.
Had Elisha sounded the great Elijah-note, "if the Lord is God, follow Him, but if Rimmon,
then follow him," perhaps the germ of temptation would not have found Gehazi even quite such
an easy prey, Mind, I am not whitewashing him or mitigating his crime.

I am trying to get at the forces that conspired to make him what he was, and among these I have
no doubt at all that his master's complaisant permission of compromise was a very potent force. Of course
he was wrong, of course there is no logical connection between what the master allowed in the
Syrian general and the great lie Gehazi told. And yet there was a sort of ghastly logic in
this poor wretch's procedure. There are many commandments. But duty is one thing, and if you weaken
a man's sense of duty by breaking one commandment yourself, you must not be surprised if you find
him breaking another commandment later on. Gehazi was cured of the leprosy of Naaman. The prophet's
angry word was not countersigned on high, and one hopes that he also shook off by God's assisting grace
the ill-effects of Elisha's complacency. For the greater danger lay in that. And does it not still
lie there?

Our young people, our children, our servants that minister to our comfort, our assistants and
clerks that multiply our personal activities and help to build up our fortunes, is there no
danger to their spiritual life in being exposed as they are to the spiritual influences which
we give off every hour?

They see the cavalcades of wealth, they gaze at the ingots of gold and the great white silver
bars; they look with longing eyes at the silks with colours that come and go like the iris
on the dove's neck. The luxuries of meat and drink appeal to them. The temptation to live for
these things assaults them.

And what help does Gehazi get from Elisha to-day? What help do young men in offices and shops
get from masters and heads of departments? What help do servants in London homes get from the
daily examples of mistresses? What are the inferences drawn in the kitchen from things heard
and seen in the dining or drawing-room? and what in the nursery? Does a young man who sees
to the very core of your business say to himself, "The master's profession of religion is
hypocrisy-- all religion is hypocrisy?" Then may God help him, for he is smitten with the leprosy
of Elisha; and may God help you, for it is a sorry business to evangelise Asiatics and send your
own servants forth from your presence lepers white as snow.

Let every master and mistress pray, "Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my
thoughts: and see if there is any way of wickedness in me, and lead
me in the way everlasting."

Hazael was the chief minister and prime favourite of Benhadad, the Syrian king. He had been raised
from a humble lot and promoted to that high post by the partiality of his sovereign, who had doubtless
discerned his exceptional abilities, and certainly placed implicit trust in him. Just now the king
was dangerously ill, and Hazael had been sent to inquire of the prophet of Israel as to the
probable issue of the sickness. He put the question with seeming anxiety: "Will my master recover?"
He spoke as if that was his dearest wish; perhaps he did wish it. But there were evidently other
thoughts half-formed, lurking and hiding themselves in the background. Suppose the king should
die and leave the throne vacant, what then? May there not be a chance for me? Elisha read these
hidden thoughts, and looked the man in the face long and steadfastly, until the face turned crimson
and the head was lowered with shame. And then the prophet said, "Thy master need not die of
the sickness; nevertheless, he will die, and I see you filling a throne won by murder, and
I have a picture before me of the terrible things which you will do to my dear land of Israel."
And as this vision passed before the prophet's eyes, he wept. Then Hazael gave the answer which
stands at the head of this paper.

It is open to two interpretations. The Authorised Version gives one and the Revised Version
the other. According to the first, it is an indignant denial; he recoils with horror from the
picture of perfidy, cruelty, and enormous criminality which the prophet has sketched for him.
I am not capable of such a thing, he says; "Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this great
thing?" According to the other reading it is not the crime that he revolts from, but the kingship
and the greatness that he refuses to believe in. It seems so improbable and all but impossible
that he, a man of obscure birth, should climb to such eminence. He exclaims against it as a piece
of incredulous and extravagant imagination. "What is thy servant, which is but a dog, that he should
do this great thing?"

Now, I doubt not that both readings may be allowed.

For certainly both thoughts were in the speaker's mind. He did not believe at that moment that
he could ever be brought to commit such infamous deeds, and he did not believe that he could
ever attain such high ambitions and power. There was a dark moral depth predicted for him to
which he was sure he would never fall, and there was a certain grandeur and elevation to which
he was confident he would never rise. To both things he said, "It is impossible," and yet the
impossible came to pass.

Now I would have you observe that this is one of the prominent lessons of the Bible; on many a
page does it bring out an unexpected development like this. Again and again it is the unlikely
that happens in the lives which figure on its pages. They rise or they fall in a way that no
one looked for, and which they, least of all, anticipated themselves. We seem to hear them saying
with Hazael, "Impossible," and then, before we get far, the thing is done. Impossible, we
say, that king Saul should ever descend so low as to deal in witches; or that Solomon, the wise,
God-fearing youth, should give himself up to the sway of lustful passions and idolatries. Yet
that comes to pass. Impossible, we say, that the cunning, lying Jacob should ever develop into
a man of prayer; and the outcast beggar, Jephthah, ever grow into
a hero-patriot and king. Yet we see it. In the Bible stories greatness
always comes to those who have neither marked themselves out for it,
nor deemed themselves fit for it; and, on the contrary, its most infamous
deeds are done, and its most shameful lives lived, by those who have
given promise of fairer things, and who in their early manhood would
have scouted the possibility of descending so low. The men whom it
describes have no suspicion, to begin with, of the great power for
good that is in them, or the equally great possibilities of evil.
Tell the shepherd youth, David, that he has in him the making of a
king and an immortal poet, and he will think you are poking fun at
him. Tell him that he will one day fall into the crimes of adultery
and murder, and make all Israel blush for him, and he will be indignant
enough to strike you to the ground. Speak to the fisherman, Peter,
of the commanding influence which awaits him in some coming kingdom
of God, and he will think you are beside yourself: and then tell him
that he will one day deny and curse his sworn Master and kindest Friend,
and he will ask you, Do you think I am a dog or a devil that I should
do this? Impossible! And yet the thing comes off.

Why do the sacred
writers give us so many stories of this kind? Surely it is because
we need both the warning and encouragement. It is to prove to us that
on one side of our nature we are greater than we think, and on the
other side weaker and lower than we believe. It is to inspire the
diffident with courage, and the despairing with hope, while it pulls
up the forward, the careless, and the over-confident with the wholesome
and humbling word, "Let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest
he fall." These men of the Bible were strangely mixed. They were conspicuous
instances of the contradictions and surprises which are in us all.
For that is the point: the thing comes home to us.

Believe me, we
are all a riddle to ourselves. Each man is to himself, and each woman
too, the greatest of all mysteries save the one greater mystery, God.
None of us know of what elements he is composed, and how strangely
the good and evil mix and mingle and clash and strive in each day's
doings, and through the whole of life. They who believe that the saint
is all saint, and the sinner all sinner, are blindly and pitiably
ignorant of human nature. God has made no man without putting some
little bit of the Divine image in him. The worst has some lingering
trace or ruin of it. And the best is not so entirely the temple of
the Holy Ghost that no fouler spirits ever obtain entrance there.
You may say that you do not believe in a devil. Well, that may be;
but there is something like a devil in all of us at certain times,
and I would rather believe that it comes from the outside than that
it is born and bred and originates within.  But most likely Harold swore only to something
much simpler.  Next to the universal agreement about the marriage comes the very general agreement
that Harold became William's man.  In these two statements we have probably the whole truth.
In those days men took the obligation of homage upon themselves very easily.  Homage was no
degradation, even in the highest; a man often did homage to any one from whom he had received
any great benefit, and Harold had received a very great benefit from William.  Nor did homage
to a new lord imply treason to the old one.  Harold, delivered by William from Guy's dungeon,
would be eager to do for William any act of friendship. The homage would be little more than
binding himself in the strongest form so to do.  The relation of homage could be made to mean
anything or nothing, as might be convenient.  The man might often understand it in one sense
and the lord in another.  If Harold became the man of William, he would look on the act as
little more than an expression of good will and gratitude towards his benefactor, his future
father-in-law, his commander in the Breton war.  He would not look on it as forbidding him
to accept the English crown if it were offered to him.  Harold, the man of Duke William, might
become a king, if he could, just as William, the man of King Philip, might become a king, if
he could.  As things went in those days, both the homage and the promise of marriage were capable
of being looked on very lightly.

But it was not in the temper or in the circumstances of William to put any such easy meaning
on either promise.  The oath might, if needful, be construed very strictly, and William was
disposed to construe it very strictly.  Harold had not promised William a crown, which was
not his to promise; but he had promised to do that which might be held to forbid him to take
a crown which William held to be his own.  If the man owed his lord any duty at all, it was
surely his duty not to thwart his lord's wishes in such a matter.  If therefore, when the vacancy
of the throne came, Harold took the crown himself, or even failed to promote William's claim
to it, William might argue that he had not rightly discharged the duty of a man to his lord.
He could make an appeal to the world against the new king, as a perjured man, who had failed
to help his lord in the matter where his lord most needed his help.  And, if the oath really
had been taken on relics of special holiness, he could further appeal to the religious feelings
of the time against the man who had done despite to the saints.  If he should be driven to
claim the crown by arms, he could give the war the character of a crusade.  All this in the
end William did, and all this, we may be sure, he looked forward to doing, when he caused Harold
to become his man.  The mere obligation of homage would, in the skilful hands of William and
Lanfranc, be quite enough to work on men's minds, as William wished to work on them.  To Harold
meanwhile and to those in England who heard the story, the engagement would not seem to carry
any of these consequences. And yet that was not the end. The life which had thus ended in shame had
begun again in glory: the cross had led on to the crown. And as thus he unfolded the first great
principles of the Christian faith, Philip would press home on the eunuch's awakened conscience
that they had a vital meaning for him. 38). The eunuch's heart was touched, and he asked that he might
be baptized. Satisfied that he was in earnest, Philip agreed to his request. And when they came
to a certain water, "they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized
him." Thus "the Ethiopian changed his skin," and "went on his way rejoicing" to his distant home,
to declare in his turn to his countrymen the tidings of great joy.

There are many points of view from which we might regard this beautiful
incident, but it is with it in its bearing on the person and character
of Philip that we are alone at present concerned.

And in considering it further in this light, it may be well to confine ourselves to noticing
in what way it gained for Philip his distinctive title of "the Evangelist," and consequently
what it has to teach us still regarding all evangelistic and missionary
work.

I. The Evangelist.

With regard to the evangelist himself, one truth stands out clearly
from the whole narrative, his work is given to him to do.

He is first and foremost a missionary, one sent. It is a pity, perhaps, that in our ordinary
speech, we have come to limit the name "missionary" so much to the
man who carries the gospel abroad.

No doubt he is a missionary in the highest sense of the word; but still the fundamental idea in
every minister or evangelist's position is the idea of one sent-- sent for a particular purpose,
with a particular message to proclaim wherever God may place him. He has no power, no authority
of his own. All that he has comes from Him whose servant he is, and whose truth he has to announce.
You remember-- to appeal at once to the highest example-- how ever-present this thought of
His mission was to the mind of our Lord and Master.

His meat, so He told His disciples, was to do the will of Him that sent Him (John iv. 34). The
word which He spake was not His own, but the Father's who sent Him (John xiv. 24). And so when
the time came for His sending forth His disciples to carry on His
work, it was as "Apostles," those sent, that the work was entrusted
to them; and in the same spirit He prayed for them in His great intercessory
prayer: "As Thou didst send Me into the world, even so sent I them
into the world"

(John xvii. 18). If we keep this view of the evangelist as the missionary, ever before us, there
is one fact regarding his position we can never lose sight of. He has no new truth of his own to declare,
no new theories of his own to frame. The message which he has to deliver is not his own, but God's;
and it must be his constant endeavour to learn that message for himself, and then, as God's
servant, to announce it to others.

Men may receive his message. If they do not, he dare not substitute any other. II. His Message. In what
does the evangelist's message consist? "Philip," we are told, "preached unto him JESUS." And what that
included we have already seen. It was the story of the life, and the death, and the resurrection
of Jesus of Nazareth, a new story then, an old story now, but still "the old, old story" for
us. The duty of the Christian teacher must be first of all to proclaim Christ and His salvation,
to announce the glad tidings of mercy and of love to sinful men.

This is not, of course, to say that every address or sermon is to
be occupied with the objective facts of Christ's life and death.

Such teaching would soon become monotonous and wearisome, and fail
in the very purpose it set before it.

Nor have men only to be awakened to the truth, they must be built up in it. And the practical question
for us all is to learn how to apply and carry out in our daily lives, the truths we have received, how to make
our conduct correspond to our creed. That opens up an endless field for the evangelist's work:
that introduces us to lectures on Home Missions and Foreign Missions,
to the story of noble lives; to all, in fact, that is likely to deepen
and to quicken our moral nature.

But still this remains as the fundamental object of the whole evangel, to preach Jesus, to bring
those to Him who know Him not, to strengthen and to comfort those
who do.

When, then, men call upon the Christian teacher to leave the objective facts of the gospel alone,
and to occupy himself with the philosophic and social questions of the day, they are calling upon
him to surrender his special function and duty.

He must indeed endeavour so to present the truth so as to meet the peculiar wants of his own time. The
form in which the gospel was presented in one age may not be the best form of presenting it in another.
At one time it may be necessary to emphasise one aspect of the truth, at another, another. But underneath
all its changing forms and aspects, the truth remains unchanged; and it is that which must
be taught. And after all, has not the simple gospel message ever proved itself the one message that
can touch the hearts and meet the wants of men? What was it, for example, in the preaching of
Savonarola that so mightily moved Florence, the elegant, refined,
wicked, pagan Florence of the fifteenth century?

He himself tells us that it was the preaching of Scripture truth. When he discoursed in a philosophical
manner, the ignorant and the learned were alike inattentive: but "the word" mightily delighted the minds
of men, and showed its divine power in the reformation of their lives. Or, to take another instance
from nearer home. Archdeacon Wilson describes somewhere the experience of the promoters of a
certain evening-class, which they had instituted for the benefit of some of the more ignorant
and degraded inhabitants of Bristol. All that they could think of they did for the benefit of
the men who gathered to it. They read to them; they sang to them:
they taught them to read and write.

Yet, in course of time, interest flagged. Every expedient failed, and they were on the point of abandoning
the work in despair, when it occurred to them to apply to the men themselves. "What would you like
us to tell you about next?" they asked. "Could you tell us something about Jesus Christ?"
answered one of the men. That was the one thing needful, the one abiding satisfaction for their
deepest needs. And so ever. It may be strange, but it is true, that
it is "the Man of Sorrows" who has won the love of men; it is the Saviour
who has been lifted up on high out of the earth, who has drawn all
men to Himself.

Christ: Christ crucified: Christ risen: that is the message which every Christian evangelist has to
declare. III. His Message of Glad Tidings. And is not that good news? "Beginning from that
same scripture, Philip preached the GLAD TIDINGS of Jesus." Philip made the eunuch's previous
knowledge the starting-point of all that he had to say, and, as he went on, showed how there was in
his message the answer to all his doubts and the solution of all his difficulties. And the gospel
has still the same meaning for us. It has a message for the man struggling with the battle of life,
in the example of One who has fought that fight before, who knows its every trial and sorrow,
and who has come gloriously through them all. It has a message for the sinner, brooding anxiously over
his guilty past, conscious only of his own defilement and unworthiness
in the sight of an all-holy God, as it assures him of mercy and free
forgiveness, of sin blotted out in the blood of Christ.

It has a message for the trembling believer, compassed about with temptations and doubts, as it tells
of One who can still be "touched with the feeling of our infirmities," and who, because "He Himself
hath suffered being tempted," is "able to succour them that are tempted." And it has a message
for the mourner sorrowing over the loss of near and dear ones, for
it points to Him who is "the Resurrection and the Life" of His people,
and gives promise of the "Father's house" with its many mansions,
where He is preparing a place for His children.

And yet great and glorious though that message is, where there are
not a hearing ear, an understanding heart, and a willing mind, even
a St Philip or a St Paul may preach in vain.

But where, on the other hand, these are present, then God may use
even the humblest and feeblest of His servants to speak some word,
to utter some warning, which may be worth to us more than all we have
in the world besides.

God grant that it may be so with us, and that by the power of the Holy Ghost the word preached may
be welcomed, "not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the
word of God, which also worketh in you that believe"

(1 Thess. ii. 13). It is a bright and a pleasing picture that is thus presented. Nor is it difficult
to understand how such a spirit should arise amongst men whose hearts were full to overflowing with
the new Christian graces of brotherhood and peace.

For we must not imagine that there was anything compulsory about
this communism.

It was entirely voluntary, and was due to the eager desire on the part of the wealthier members of the
Church to do all that they could for their poorer brethren. In this particular alone, we can
at once see how widely it differed from what is generally known as communism or socialism in
the present day. The spirit of much at any rate of our present-day socialism-- so the distinction
has been cleverly drawn-- is, "What is thine, is mine": but the spirit of those early believers
was rather, "What is mine, is thine." At the same time, we can readily understand that in a
large and mixed community like the early Church, all members would not think exactly alike, and
that while many, we may believe most, would cheerfully obey this unwritten law of love, and share
and share alike, others would give in to it-- if they did give in, for, let me again emphasise,
there was no compulsion upon any-- more grudgingly and hesitatingly. (Acts iv. 37)-- of the
latter, in the case of Ananias with Sapphira his wife, whose melancholy
story is now before us.

That story is very familiar, and is often regarded simply as an instance of the sinfulness of lying. And
that undoubtedly it is; but it warns us also against other equally dangerous and insidious errors,
as a little consideration will, I think, show. For what were Ananias's motives in acting as he
did? If we can discover them, we shall have the key to the whole story. And here, it seems
to me, they must, in the first instance at any rate, have been of a sufficiently generous character.
Ananias had seen what was going on around him, and he had determined that he must not be behindhand
in this ministry of love. But-- and now we get a little deeper into his character-- ambition to
stand well with his fellow-members evidently mingled with the pure spirit of charity: though we
do not need to suppose that there was as yet any conscious intention to deceive. Acting, then,
on these somewhat mixed motives of charity and ambition, Ananias determined to sell a possession,
some farm or other which he had, and hand over the money to the apostles. He probably meant
at first to hand over the whole price, but with the money in his hand, the demon of avarice
entered into his heart. Whiles it remained, did it not remain thine own? and after it was sold,
was it not in thy power? How is it that thou hast conceived this thing in thy heart? thou hast not
lied unto men, but unto God "(Acts v. 2-4). The sin of Ananias, then, lay in this, that he gave
a certain sum as if it were the whole.

There was no necessity for his giving either the whole or the part. Had he hung back, when others
were selling their possessions, he would have been pronounced ungenerous in comparison with them.
Had he brought a part, making no mistake about it that it was only a part, when they were giving
all, then he would have been not so generous. But when he brought a part as if it were the whole,
he added to his former selfishness and avarice deceit and hypocrisy. If he did not in so many words
tell a lie, he did what was equally heinous, he acted a lie.

It is only when we thus clearly realise the enormity of Ananias's sin, that we can understand
the reason of the dreadful doom that followed." And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down,
and gave up the ghost "(ver. 5). The judgment came not from men, but from God. As it was in God's
sight-- the sight of the living and heart-searching God-- that the
sin had been committed: so it was by the direct" visitation of God
"that it was now punished.

Nor was the awful lesson yet over. Three hours had scarcely elapsed since the young men had carried
forth her husband, and buried him, when Sapphira," not knowing what was done, came in. "" And
Peter answered unto her "-- answered her look of amazement as she regarded the awe-struck faces
of those present--" Tell me, whether ye sold the land for so much? "" Yea, for so much, "she replied,
adhering to the unholy compact into which, with Ananias, she had entered, and adding deceit
in speech to his deceit in act. (verses 8, 9). It was the first intimation the unhappy woman
had received of Ananias's death: and to the shame of her own consciousness of guilt, must have
been added the feeling that she had a certain responsibility in what
had befallen him.

A word of remonstrance on her part might, at the beginning, have prevented the crime: it was
too late now. (ver. 10). And as the sacred historian again impressively adds, showing how deep
was the effect produced:" And great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all that heard
these things "(ver. 11). Such is the story. Who does not feel its
sadness?

All before had been so peaceful and happy. The early believers had presented such a beautiful spectacle
of brotherly unity and love. And now, all too soon, the enemy had been at work, sowing tares
among the wheat. In the very particular in which the Church most deserved praise-- the enthusiasm
of its members'charity-- sin had appeared. And thus early had the young Church of Christ learned
that truth, which it has been the work of nineteen centuries to emphasise, that her true danger
comes not so much from without as from within, and that then only is she disgraced, when she disgraces
herself. For what may we learn from this tragic incident?

I. We learn the sanctity, the holiness, which Christ looks for in His Church. The Church of Christ is holy:
it consists of those who have separated themselves from the world and its defilements, and who
have set themselves apart-- body, soul, and spirit-- for Christ's service. That, I say, is the Church's
ideal. But we know, alas! only too well, how far short the Church on earth falls of that--
how much worldliness, and vanity, and ambition-- yes, and even grosser
sins-- mingle with our holy things.

But we must keep God's ideal ever before us, that ideal which assures us that God, by His Spirit, actually
dwells in His Church, dwells in the heart of each individual believer. Only when we remember that,
can we see how great was Ananias's sin." He lied to the Holy Ghost: he lied not unto men, but unto
God. "As by God's Spirit his heart had been enlightened and opened to the knowledge of the truth: so
now against that Spirit he had deliberately sinned. Such a sin could not pass unpunished. Had that
been allowed, the false impression would have got abroad that God
was easy and tolerant of sin.

Rather it was necessary" that men should be taught once for all, by sudden death treading swiftly
on the heels of detected sin, that the gospel, which discovers God's boundless mercy, has not wiped out the
sterner attributes of the Judge. "[1] II. We learn the reality of the
power of Satan. On this point, Peter's question is very suggestive--"
Why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? "There
is a constant tendency in those days, which are so impatient of all that
is supersensible and wonderful, to try and get rid of the personality
of the devil, and to tone down the question of man's salvation to
a struggle between two opposing principles within the heart, instead
of regarding it, as the Bible teaches us to regard it, as an actual
contest for the soul of man between real persons-- the Spirit of God
from above, the Spirit of evil from beneath.

The heart
of man is as it were a little city or fortress on the borderland between
two nations at war with each other, and which is liable to be captured
by whichever at that point proves itself the strongest. But at the
same time with this great difference, that every man has the power
of deciding into whose hands he is to fall. His will is free: and he is
personally accountable for whom he may choose as master. For, notice
how, in the case before us, St Peter, while tracing the fall of Ananias
to the agency of Satan, yet prefixes his question with a why:" Why
hath Satan jilted thine heart? "There had been a time when resistance
was still possible.


Let it be that Edward on his death-bed had recommended Harold, and that the Witan had elected
Harold.  The recommendation was wrung from a dying man in opposition to an earlier act done
when he was able to act freely.  The election was brought about by force or fraud; if it was
free, it was of no force against William's earlier claim of kindred and bequest.  As for Edgar,
as few people in England thought of him, still fewer out of England would have ever heard of
him.  It is more strange that the bastardy of William did not tell against him, as it had once
told in his own duchy.  But this fact again marks the transitional age. Altogether the tale
that a man who was no kinsman of the late king had taken to himself the crown which the king
had bequeathed to a kinsman, might, even without further aggravation, be easily made to sound
like a tale of wrong.

But the case gained tenfold strength when William added that the doer of the wrong was of all
men the one most specially bound not to do it.  The usurper was in any case William's man,
bound to act in all things for his lord.  Perhaps he was more; perhaps he had directly sworn
to receive William as king.  Perhaps he had promised all this with an oath of special solemnity.
It would be easy to enlarge on all these further counts as making up an amount of guilt which
William not only had the right to chastise, but which he would be lacking in duty if he failed
to chastise.  He had to punish the perjurer, to avenge the wrongs of the saints.  Surely all
who should help him in so doing would be helping in a righteous work.

The answer to all this was obvious.  Putting the case at the very worst, assuming that Harold
had sworn all that he is ever said to have sworn, assuming that he swore it in the most solemn
way in which he is ever said to have sworn it, William's claim was not thereby made one whit
better.  Whatever Harold's own guilt might be, the people of England had no share in it.  Nothing
that Harold had done could bar their right to choose their king freely.  Even if Harold declined
the crown, that would not bind the electors to choose William.  But when the notion of choosing
kings had begun to sound strange, all this would go for nothing.  There would be no need even
to urge that in any case the wrong done by Harold to William gave William a casus belli against
Harold, and that William, if victorious, might claim the crown of England, as a possession
of Harold's, by right of conquest.  In fact William never claimed the crown by conquest, as
conquest is commonly understood.  He always represented himself as the lawful heir, unhappily
driven to use force to obtain his rights.  The other pleas were quite enough to satisfy most
men out of England and Scandinavia.  William's work was to claim the crown of which he was
unjustly deprived, and withal to deal out a righteous chastisement on the unrighteous and ungodly
man by whom he had been deprived of it.

In the hands of diplomatists like William and Lanfranc, all these arguments, none of which
had in itself the slightest strength, were enough to turn the great mass of continental opinion
in William's favour.  But he could add further arguments specially adapted to different classes
of minds.  He could hold out the prospect of plunder, the prospect of lands and honours in
a land whose wealth was already proverbial.  It might of course be answered that the enterprise
against England was hazardous and its success unlikely. But in such matters, men listen rather
to their hopes than to their fears.  To the Normans it would be easy, not only to make out
a case against Harold, but to rake up old grudges against the English nation.  Under Harold
the son of Cnut, Alfred, a prince half Norman by birth, wholly Norman by education, the brother
of the late king, the lawful heir to the crown, had been betrayed and murdered by somebody.
A widespread belief laid the deed to the charge of the father of the new king.  This story
might easily be made a ground of national complaint by Normandy against England, and it was
easy to infer that Harold had some share in the alleged crime of Godwine.  It was easy to dwell
on later events, on the driving of so many Normans out of England, with Archbishop Robert at
their head.  Nay, not only had the lawful primate been driven out, but an usurper had been
set in his place, and this usurping archbishop had been made to bestow a mockery of consecration
on the usurping king. The proposed aggression on England was even represented as a missionary
work, undertaken for the good of the souls of the benighted islanders.  For, though the English
were undoubtedly devout after their own fashion, there was much in the ecclesiastical state
of England which displeased strict churchmen beyond sea, much that William, when he had the
power, deemed it his duty to reform.  The insular position of England naturally parted it in
many things from the usages and feelings of the mainland, and it was not hard to get up a feeling
against the nation as well as against its king.  All this could not really strengthen William's
claim; but it made men look more favourably on his enterprise.

The fact that the Witan were actually in session at Edward's death had made it possible to
carry out Harold's election and coronation with extreme speed.  The electors had made their
choice before William had any opportunity of formally laying his claim before them.  This was
really an advantage to him; he could the better represent the election and coronation as invalid.
His first step was of course to send an embassy to Harold to call on him even now to fulfil
his oath.  The accounts of this embassy, of which we have no English account, differ as much
as the different accounts of the oath.  Each version of course makes William demand and Harold
refuse whatever it had made Harold swear.  These demands and refusals range from the resignation
of the kingdom to a marriage with William's daughter.  And it is hard to separate this embassy
from later messages between the rivals.  In all William demands, Harold refuses; the arguments
on each side are likely to be genuine.  Harold is called on to give up the crown to William,
to hold it of William, to hold part of the kingdom of William, to submit the question to the
judgement of the Pope, lastly, if he will do nothing else, at least to marry William's daughter.
Different writers place these demands at different times, immediately after Harold's election
or immediately before the battle.  The last challenge to a single combat between Harold and
William of course appears only on the eve of the battle.  Now none of these accounts come from
contemporary partisans of Harold; every one is touched by hostile feeling towards him.  Thus
the constitutional language that is put into his mouth, almost startling from its modern sound,
has greater value.  A King of the English can do nothing without the consent of his Witan.
They gave him the kingdom; without their consent, he cannot resign it or dismember it or agree
to hold it of any man; without their consent, he cannot even marry a foreign wife.  Or he answers
that the daughter of William whom he promised to marry is dead, and that the sister whom he
promised to give to a Norman is dead also.  Harold does not deny the fact of his oath--whatever
its nature; he justifies its breach because it was taken against is will, and because it was
in itself of no strength, as binding him to do impossible things.  He does not deny Edward's
earlier promise to William; but, as a testament is of no force while the testator liveth, he
argues that it is cancelled by Edward's later nomination of himself.  In truth there is hardly
any difference between the disputants as to matters of fact.  One side admits at least a plighting
of homage on the part of Harold; the other side admits Harold's nomination and election.  The
real difference is as to the legal effect of either.  Herein comes William's policy.  The question
was one of English law and of nothing else, a matter for the Witan of England and for no other
judges.  William, by ingeniously mixing all kinds of irrelevant issues, contrived to remove
the dispute from the region of municipal into that of international law, a law whose chief
representative was the Bishop of Rome.  By winning the Pope to his side, William could give
his aggression the air of a religious war; but in so doing, he unwittingly undermined the throne
that he was seeking and the thrones of all other princes.

The answers which Harold either made, or which writers of his time thought that he ought to
have made, are of the greatest moment in our constitutional history.  The King is the doer
of everything; but he can do nothing of moment without the consent of his Witan. They can say
Yea or Nay to every proposal of the King.  An energetic and popular king would get no answer
but Yea to whatever he chose to ask.  A king who often got the answer of Nay, Nay, was in great
danger of losing his kingdom.  The statesmanship of William knew how to turn this constitutional
system, without making any change in the letter, into a despotism like that of Constantinople
or Cordova.  But the letter lived, to come to light again on occasion.  The Revolution of 1399
was a falling back on the doctrines of 1066, and the Revolution of 1688 was a falling back
on the doctrines of 1399.  The principle at all three periods is that the power of the King
is strictly limited by law, but that, within the limits which the law sets to his power, he
acts according to his own discretion.  King and Witan stand out as distinct powers, each of
which needs the assent of the other to its acts, and which may always refuse that assent. 
The political work of the last two hundred years has been to hinder these direct collisions
between King and Parliament by the ingenious conventional device of a body of men who shall
be in name the ministers of the Crown, but in truth the ministers of one House of Parliament.
We do not understand our own political history, still less can we understand the position and
the statesmanship of the Conqueror, unless we fully take in what the English constitution in
the eleventh century really was, how very modern-sounding are some of its doctrines, some of
its forms.  Statesmen of our own day might do well to study the meagre records of the Gemot
of 1047. There is the earliest recorded instance of a debate on a question of foreign policy.
Earl Godwine proposes to give help to Denmark, then at war with Norway.  He is outvoted on
the motion of Earl Leofric, the man of moderate politics, who appears as leader of the party
of non-intervention.  It may be that in some things we have not always advanced in the space
of eight hundred years.

The negotiations of William with his own subjects, with foreign powers, and with the Pope,
are hard to arrange in order.  Several negotiations were doubtless going on at the same time.
The embassy to Harold would of course come first of all.  Till his demand had been made and
refused, William could make no appeal elsewhere.  We know not whether the embassy was sent
before or after Harold's journey to Northumberland, before or after his marriage with Ealdgyth.
If Harold was already married, the demand that he should marry William's daughter could have
been meant only in mockery. Indeed, the whole embassy was so far meant in mockery that it was
sent without any expectation that its demands would be listened to. It was sent to put Harold,
from William's point of view, more thoroughly in the wrong, and to strengthen William's case
against him.  It would therefore be sent at the first moment; the only statement, from a very
poor authority certainly, makes the embassy come on the tenth day after Edward's death.  Next
after the embassy would come William's appeal to his own subjects, though Lanfranc might well
be pleading at Rome while William was pleading at Lillebonne.  The Duke first consulted a select
company, who promised their own services, but declined to pledge any one else. It was held
that no Norman was bound to follow the Duke in an attempt to win for himself a crown beyond
the sea.  But voluntary help was soon ready.  A meeting of the whole baronage of Normandy was
held at Lillebonne.  The assembly declined any obligation which could be turned into a precedent,
and passed no general vote at all.  But the barons were won over one by one, and each promised
help in men and ships according to his means.

William had thus, with some difficulty, gained the support of his own subjects; but when he
had once gained it, it was a zealous support.  And as the flame spread from one part of Europe
to another, the zeal of Normandy would wax keener and keener.  The dealings of William with
foreign powers are told us in a confused, piecemeal, and sometimes contradictory way.  We hear
that embassies went to the young King Henry of Germany, son of the great Emperor, the friend
of England, and also to Swegen of Denmark.  The Norman story runs that both princes promised
William their active support. Yet Swegen, the near kinsman of Harold, was a friend of England,
and the same writer who puts this promise into his mouth makes him send troops to help his
English cousin.  Young Henry or his advisers could have no motive for helping William; but
subjects of the Empire were at least not hindered from joining his banner. XVII. The glens of Antrim.
XVIII. Limavady love-letters. XIX.'In ould Donegal.'XX. We evict a tenant. XXI. Lachrymae Hibernicae.
Part Fourth-- Connaught.

XXII. The weeping west.

XXIII. Beams and motes. XXIV. Humours of the road. XXV. The wee folk.
Part Fifth-- Royal Meath.

XXVI. Ireland's gold.

XXVII. The three chatelaines of Devorgilla. XXVIII. Round towers
and reflections.

XXIX. Aunt David's garden. XXX. The quest of the fair strangers. XXXI. Good-bye, dark Rosaleen!
XXXII.'As the sunflower turns.'Part First-- Leinster.

Chapter I. We emulate the Rollo books.'Sure a terrible time I was
out o'the way, Over the sea, over the sea, Till I come to Ireland
one sunny day,-- Betther for me, betther for me: The first time me
fut got the feel o'the ground I was strollin'along in an Irish city
That hasn't its aquil the world around For the air that is sweet an'the
girls that are pretty.'-- Moira O'Neill.

Dublin, O'Carolan's Private Hotel.

It is the most absurd thing in the world that Salemina, Francesca, and I should be in Ireland
together. That any three spinsters should be fellow-travellers is not in itself extraordinary, and
so our former journeyings in England and Scotland could hardly be described as eccentric in any
way; but now that I am a matron and Francesca is shortly to be married,
it is odd, to say the least, to see us cosily ensconced in a private
sitting-room of a Dublin hotel, the table laid for three, and not
a vestige of a man anywhere to be seen.

Where, one might ask, if he knew the antecedent circumstances, are
Miss Hamilton's American spouse and Miss Monroe's Scottish lover?

Francesca had passed most of the winter in Scotland.

Her indulgent parent had given his consent to her marriage with a Scotsman, but insisted that
she take a year to make up her mind as to which particular one.

Memories of her past flirtations, divagations, plans for a life of single blessedness, all
conspired to make him incredulous, and the loyal Salemina, feeling some
responsibility in the matter, had elected to remain by Francesca's
side during the time when her affections were supposed to be crystallising
into some permanent form. It was natural enough that my husband and I
should spend the first summer of our married life abroad, for we
had been accustomed to do this before we met, a period that we always
allude to as the Dark Ages; but no sooner had we arrived in Edinburgh,
and no sooner had my husband persuaded our two friends to join us
in a long, delicious Irish holiday, than he was compelled to return
to America for a month or so.

I think you must number among your acquaintances such a man as Mr. William Beresford, whose wife I
have the honour to be.

Physically the type is vigorous, or has the appearance and gives the impression of being vigorous,
because it has never the time to be otherwise, since it is always engaged in nursing its ailing
or decrepit relatives. Intellectually it is full of vitality; any mind grows when it is exercised, and
the brain that has to settle all its own affairs and all the affairs of its friends and acquaintances
could never lack energy. Spiritually it is almost too good for earth, and any woman who lives in the house
with it has moments of despondency and self-chastisement, in which
she fears that heaven may prove all too small to contain the perfect
being and its unregenerate family as well.

Financially it has at least a moderate bank account; that is, it is never penniless, indeed it
can never afford to be, because it is peremptory that it should possess funds in order to disburse
them to needier brothers. There is never an hour when Mr. William Beresford is not signing notes and bonds
and drafts for less fortunate men; giving small loans just to'help a fellow over a hard place';
educating friends'children, starting them in business, or securing
appointments for them.

The widow and the fatherless have worn such an obvious path to his
office and residence that no bereaved person could possibly lose
his way, and as a matter of fact no one of them ever does.

This special journey of his to America has been made necessary because, first, his cousin's widow
has been defrauded of a large sum by her man of business; and second, his college chum and dearest
friend has just died in Chicago after appointing him executor of his estate and guardian of his only
child. The wording of the will is,'as a sacred charge and with full power.'Incidentally, as
it were, one of his junior partners has been ordered a long sea voyage, and another has to
go somewhere for mud baths. The junior partners were my idea, and were suggested solely that
their senior might be left more or less free from business care, but it was impossible that Willie should
have selected sound, robust partners-- his tastes do not incline
him in the direction of selfish ease; accordingly he chose two delightful,
estimable, frail gentlemen who needed comfortable incomes in conjunction
with light duties.

I am railing at my husband for all this, but I love him for it just the same, and it shows why the
table is laid for three. "Salemina," I said, extending my slipper toe to the glowing peat, which
by extraordinary effort had been brought up from the hotel kitchen, as a bit of local colour, "it
is ridiculous that we three women should be in Ireland together; it's the sort of thing that happens in a
book, and of which we say that it could never occur in real life. Three
persons do not spend successive seasons in England, Scotland and
Ireland unless they are writing an Itinerary of the British Isles.

The situation is possible, certainly, but it isn't simple, or natural, or probable. We are behaving
precisely like characters in fiction, who, having been popular in the first volume, are exploited
again and again until their popularity wanes. We are like the Trotty books or the Elsie Dinmore series.
England was our first volume, Scotland our second, and here we are, if you please, about to
live a third volume in Ireland. We fall in love, we marry and are given in marriage, we promote
and take part in international alliances, but when the curtain goes up again, our accumulations, acquisitions--
whatever you choose to call them-- have disappeared. We are not to the superficial eye the
spinster-philanthropist, the bride to be, the wife of a year; we
are the same old Salemina, Francesca and Penelope.

It is so dramatic that my husband should be called to America; as a woman I miss him and need
him; as a character I am much better single. I don't suppose publishers like married heroines
any more than managers like married leading ladies. Then how entirely proper it is that Ronald Macdonald
cannot leave his new parish in the Highlands. The one, my husband, belongs to the first volume; Francesca's
lover to the second; and good gracious, Salemina, don't you see the
inference?"

"I may be dull," she replied, "but I confess I do not." "We are three?" "Who is three?" "That
is not good English, but I repeat with different emphasis WE are
three.

I fell in love in England, Francesca fell in love in Scotland-" And here I paused, watching the
blush mount rosily to Salemina's grey hair; pink is very becoming to
grey, and that, we always say, accounts more satisfactorily for Salemina's
frequent blushes than her modesty, which is about of the usual sort.
"Your argument is interesting, and even ingenious," she replied,
"but I fail to see my responsibility.

If you persist in thinking of me as a character in fiction, I shall rebel. I am not the stuff of which
heroines are made; besides, I would never appear in anything so cheap and obvious as a series,
and the three-volume novel is as much out of fashion as the Rollo books." "But we are unconscious
heroines, you understand," I explained. "While we were experiencing our experiences we did not
notice them, but they have attained by degrees a sufficient bulk so that they are visible to
the naked eye. We can look back now and perceive the path we have travelled." "It isn't retrospect
I object to, but anticipation," she retorted; "not history, but prophecy. It is one thing to
gaze sentimentally at the road you have travelled, quite another to conjure up impossible pictures
of the future." Salemina calls herself a trifle over forty, but I am not certain of her age,
and think perhaps that she is uncertain herself. She has good reason to forget it, and so have
we. Of course she could consult the Bible family record daily, but if she consulted her looking-glass
afterward the one impression would always nullify the other. Her hair is silvered, it is true,
but that is so clearly a trick of Nature that it makes her look younger rather than older. Francesca
came into the room just here. I said a moment ago that she was the same old Francesca, but I was
wrong; she is softening, sweetening, expanding; in a word, blooming.

Not
only this, but Ronald Macdonald's likeness has been stamped upon
her in some magical way, so that, although she has not lost her own
personality, she seems to have added a reflection of his.

In the glimpses of herself, her views, feelings, opinions, convictions,
which she gives us in a kind of solution, as it were, there are always
traces of Ronald Macdonald; or, to be more poetical, he seems to have
bent over the crystal pool, and his image is reflected there.

You remember in New England they allude to a bride as'she that was'a
so-and-so.

In my private interviews with Salemina I now habitually allude to Francesca as'she that was
a Monroe'; it is so significant of her present state of absorption. Several times this week I have
been obliged to inquire, "Was I, by any chance, as absent-minded and dull in Pettybaw as Francesca
is under the same circumstances in Dublin?" "Quite." "Duller if anything."

These
candid replies being uttered in cheerful unison I change the subject, but cannot resist telling
them both casually that the building of the Royal Dublin Society is in Kildare Street, just three
minutes'from O'Carolan's, and that I have noticed it is for the promotion of Husbandry and other
useful arts and sciences. Chapter II.

Irish itineraries.'And I will make my journey, if life and health but stand, Unto that pleasant
country, that fresh and fragrant strand, And leave your boasted braveries, your wealth and high
command, For the fair hills of holy Ireland.'-- Sir Samuel Ferguson.

Our
mutual relations have changed little, notwithstanding that betrothals and marriages have intervened,
and in spite of the fact that Salemina has grown a year younger; a mysterious feat that she
has accomplished on each anniversary of her birth since the forming
of our alliance.

It is many months since we travelled together in Scotland, but on entering this very room in Dublin,
the other day, we proceeded to show our several individualities as usual: I going to the window
to see the view, Francesca consulting the placard on the door for hours of table d'hote, and Salemina
walking to the grate and lifting the ugly little paper screen to say, "There is a fire laid;
how nice!" As the matron I have been promoted to a nominal charge
of the travelling arrangements.

Therefore, while the others drive or sail, read or write, I am buried in Murray's Handbook, or immersed
in maps. When I sleep, my dreams are spotted, starred, notched, and lined with hieroglyphics, circles,
horizontal dashes, long lines, and black dots, signifying hotels, coach and rail routes, and tramways.
All this would have been done by Himself with the greatest ease in the world. In the humbler walks
of Irish life the head of the house, if he is of the proper sort, is called Himself, and it is in
the shadow of this stately title that my Ulysses will appear in this
chronicle. I am quite sure I do not believe in the inferiority of woman,
but I have a feeling that a man is a trifle superior in practical
affairs.

If I am in doubt, and there is no husband, brother, or cousin near, from whom to seek advice, I
instinctively ask the butler or the coachman rather than a female friend; also, when a female
friend has consulted the Bradshaw in my behalf, I slip out and seek confirmation from the butcher's
boy or the milkman. Himself would have laid out all our journeyings for us, and we should have
gone placidly along in well-ordered paths.

As it is, we are already pledged to do the most absurd and unusual
things, and Ireland bids fair to be seen in the most topsy-turvy,
helter-skelter fashion imaginable.

Francesca's propositions are especially nonsensical, being provocative
of fruitless discussion, and adding absolutely nothing to the sum
of human intelligence.

"Why not start without any special route in view, and visit the towns with which we already have familiar
associations?" she asked. "We should have all sorts of experiences by the way, and be free
from the blighting influences of a definite purpose. Who that has ever travelled fails to call
to mind certain images when the names of cities come up in general
conversation?

If Bologna, Brussels, or Lima is mentioned, I think at once of sausages,
sprouts, and beans, and it gives me a feeling of friendly intimacy.

I remember Neufchatel and Cheddar by their cheeses, Dorking and Cochin China by their hens,
Whitby by its jet, or York by its hams, so that I am never wholly ignorant of places and their
subtle associations."

"That method appeals strongly to the fancy," said Salemina drily.

"What subtle associations have you already established in Ireland?" "Let me see," she responded thoughtfully;
"the list is not a long one. Limerick and Carrickmacross for lace, Shandon for the bells, Blarney
and Donnybrook for the stone and the fair, Kilkenny for the cats,
and Balbriggan for the stockings."

"You are sordid this morning," reproved Salemina; "it would be better if you remembered Limerick by
the famous siege, and Balbriggan as the place where King William encamped with his army after the
battle of the Boyne." "I've studied the song-writers more than the histories and geographies,"
I said, "so I should like to go to Bray and look up the Vicar, then to Coleraine to see where Kitty
broke the famous pitcher; or to Tara, where the harp that once, or to Athlone, where dwelt Widow Malone,
ochone, and so on; just start with an armful of Tom Moore's poems and Lover's and Ferguson's,
and, yes," I added generously, "some of the nice moderns, and visit the scenes they've written about." "And
be disappointed," quoth Francesca cynically. "Poets see everything
by the light that never was on sea or land; still I won't deny that
they help the blind, and I should rather like to know if there are
still any Nora Creinas and Sweet Peggies and Pretty Girls Milking
their Cows."

"I am very anxious to visit as many of the Round Towers as possible," said Salemina. "When I was a
girl of seventeen I had a very dear friend, a young Irishman, who has since become a well-known antiquary
and archaeologist.

He was a student, and afterwards, I think, a professor here in Trinity College, but I have not
heard from him for many years." "Don't look him up, darling," pleaded Francesca. "You are so much
our superior now that we positively must protect you from all elevating influences." "I won't insist
on the Round Towers," smiled Salemina, "and I think Penelope's idea a delightful one; we might add
to it a sort of literary pilgrimage to the homes and haunts of Ireland's famous writers." "I
didn't know that she had any," interrupted Francesca. This is a favourite method of conversation
with that spoiled young person; it seems to appeal to her in three different
ways: she likes to belittle herself, she likes to shock Salemina, and she
likes to have information given her on the spot in some succinct,
portable, convenient form.

"Oh," she continued apologetically, "of course there
are Dean Swift and Thomas Moore and Charles Lever." "And," I added "certain
minor authors named Goldsmith, Sterne, Steele, and Samuel Lover."

"And Bishop Berkeley, and Brinsley
Sheridan, and Maria Edgeworth, and Father Prout," continued Salemina,
"and certain great speech-makers like Burke and Grattan and Curran;
and how delightful to visit all the places connected with Stella and
Vanessa, and the spot where Spenser wrote the Faerie Queene."  The crown was Harold's by the gift
of the nation, and he could not sever his own cause from the cause of the nation.  The crown
was his; but it was not his to stake on the issue of a single combat.  If Harold were killed,
the nation might give the crown to whom they thought good; Harold's death could not make William's
claim one jot better.  The cause was not personal, but national.  The Norman duke had, by a
wanton invasion, wronged, not the King only, but every man in England, and every man might
claim to help in driving him out.  Again, in an ordinary wager of battle, the judgement can
be enforced; here, whether William slew Harold or Harold slew William, there was no means of
enforcing the judgement except by the strength of the two armies.  If Harold fell, the English
army were not likely to receive William as king; if William fell, the Norman army was still
less likely to go quietly out of England.  The challenge was meant as a mere blind; it would
raise the spirit of William's followers; it would be something for his poets and chroniclers
to record in his honour; that was all.

The actual battle, fought on Senlac, on Saint Calixtus' day, was more than a trial of skill
and courage between two captains and two armies.  It was, like the old battles of Macedonian
and Roman, a trial between two modes of warfare.  The English clave to the old Teutonic tactics.
They fought on foot in the close array of the shield-wall.  Those who rode to the field dismounted
when the fight began.  They first hurled their javelins, and then took to the weapons of close
combat.  Among these the Danish axe, brought in by Cnut, had nearly displaced the older English
broadsword.  Such was the array of the housecarls and of the thegns who had followed Harold
from York or joined him on his march.  But the treason of Edwin and Morkere had made it needful
to supply the place of the picked men of Northumberland with irregular levies, armed almost
anyhow. These were the men who affected to be the leaders of the one pure faith on earth, a faith
which looked with scorn on the "idolatry" of the cultured Roman. He must have regarded them
with immense contempt. If his tone is cynical, it is but a match for the unmitigated cynicism
of their conduct.

Pilate inquires as to the crime with which the Prisoner is charged. At first, the Jews do not
give an explicit reply, only stating that they have already found Him guilty. Pilate catches
at that. His weakness, so pitiably apparent throughout the whole proceedings, appears at this
early stage. Desiring to shirk the responsibility of deciding the case-- he would use the first
apparent loophole of escape. Since the Jews have taken this case in hand, let them carry it through,
dealing with it according to their law. They are not to be caught by that flattering suggestion.
They know that they have not the power of life and death. Pilate would not let them kill Jesus. His
proposal, which on the surface looks like the granting of a privilege, amounts to this, that
they may exercise ecclesiastical discipline, excommunicate their Prisoner, or perhaps fling
Him into jail, possibly scourge Him. But the worst of these punishments will not satisfy their
determined hatred, or rid them of the haunting fear inspiring it, that Jesus will undermine their
influence with the people. Nothing less than His death will put an end to that danger; so they
thought, although the event proved that it was this very death of Christ that was to lead to the
victory of Christianity over Judaism. This, however, even His own disciples could not foresee,
much less could it enter into the minds of His enemies among the
Jews.

Thwarted in his first attempt to escape, and compelled to try this difficult case, Pilate enters
the palace where Jesus is kept under arrest, and questions Him. He has been informed that Jesus
claims to be the king of the Jews. Is that so?

Is the charge but a piece of malicious slander? If it is, there is an end of the matter. Pilate
is not going to lend himself to humour the whim of those hateful Jews, whom he affects to
despise while in his heart he is mortally afraid of them. There is nothing of the bearing
of the violent insurgent in this calm peasant who stands before him. Surely this is some stupid
mistake, or there is more Jewish malice in it than Pilate can fathom. But the Roman magistrate soon
discovers that he is dealing with no ordinary man. Jesus takes his measure in a moment. Pilate
is a feeble creature, with no character, insincere, dishonest. He must be made to feel his
littleness. We can imagine how our Lord would fix on him a penetrating gaze before which the
shallow nature of the man would become apparent, as He asked whether this cross-examination
was genuine, or whether Pilate was prompted to it; whether, as we should say, it was "a put-up
affair"-- "Sayest thou this of thyself, or did others say it concerning Me?" Picture the situation-- the
great marble palace, the representative of Imperial Rome clad in the purple robe of office,
and seated in his chair on the dais, the surrounding officials and bodyguard; and then the peasant
from Galilee, alone, unattended, undefended, come straight from insult
and mockery in another court, and that after a night of mental agony.

Observe how completely the relative position of judge and Prisoner are reversed, at least,
to the eyes of the onlooker. Jesus calmly questions Pilate, calmly tells him of the limit
of his power, and calmly claims the kinship for himself-- there of all places-- in the Roman governor's
residence, speaking to this governor himself, knowing that it must seal His own fate. The
two powers are now face to face-- the world-power of Rome, outwardly so imposing, but at this
moment shrinking to insignificance, looking so vulgar, so mean, so sordid, so unreal, so essentially
weak, in the person of the paltry governor; and the heavenly power, the power of truth and goodness,
the Kingdom of God represented by the provincial Prisoner whose inherent dignity of Presence is
seen to be all the more sublime for the contrast. And Pilate? How does he view this? He is manifestly
disconcerted, but he tries to hide his awkwardness under a mask of Roman scorn. "Am I a Jew?"
he exclaims, in a tone of measureless contempt. It is like the contempt of Agrippa when, in response
to St Paul's enthusiastic appeal and close home-thrust, he cried, "With but little persuasion thou
wouldest fain make me a Christian!" Pilate reminds Jesus that He has been given up by His own
people. Jews might be expected to stand by a fellow-Jew under the Roman tyranny. How comes it
to pass that the Jewish people have brought a man of their own race to the foreign tribunal,
prosecuting Him before this alien power, seeking His death from the hated Imperial government?
What can He have done to bring about so unusual a situation? Pilate is perplexed; and the answer
of Jesus does not clarify the magistrate's ideas. It seems only more mystifying. Jesus describes
His kingdom, so different from any institution bearing the name that Pilate has ever heard of.
It is not of the order of things in this world. If it were, of course Christ's servants would
fight, as do the servants of the claimants of earthly thrones. But they do not resort to violence.
The kingdom and its methods of government are both unearthly. Pilate is interested, perhaps
amused, with what now seem to him the fancies of a fanatical dreamer. He pursues the inquiry,
we may suppose, with a smile on his lips, "Art thou a king, then?" he asked. There is no ambiguity
in his Prisoner's reply. He is a king. This strange kingdom, not resting on any basis of earthly
power, dispensing with fighting, with all that an army suggests, with force, is the very opposite
to Pilate's idea of a state. Rome was materialistic to the core. Her rule rested on brute force.
The Empire, the Imperium, was the dominion of the Imperator, that
is to say, of the commander-in-chief of the army.

It was a military despotism. Nominally the government was still republican, and the older
and more peaceable provinces were administered by proconsuls, whose appointment rested with the
senate, or was supposed by a legal fiction to rest with that body. But the newer and more troublesome
provinces were governed as conquered territory directly by the emperor as the head of the army.
Now Judaea came in this latter division. Pontius Pilate and his superior, the Legate of Syria,
were both directly responsible to Tiberius Caesar. Pilate was Caesar's officer under military
direction. Military methods characterised the procurator's rule. To a man placed as Pilate, the
notion of a ruler independent of fighting supporters, and that in territory held down by force of
arms, was simply absurd.

Our Lord's further explanation seems to Pilate still more out of keeping with the notion of royalty.
Jesus says He was born to be a king in order that He might bear witness to the truth. A king-- truth-- what
have these two words in common, the one referring to the most real region, the other to the
most ideal? To Pilate, the conjunction is absolutely incongruous. "What is truth?" he asks, as
he turns away, too contemptuous to wait for an answer. This famous utterance has been quoted
as a text for the anxious inquirer, and preachers have gravely set themselves to answer it.
Jesus did nothing of the kind. Evidently it was not a serious inquiry. Pilate flung off the very
idea of truth-- a mere abstraction, nothing to a practical Roman. Still, though he was not seeking
any answer to his question, by the very tone of it he suggested that he did not possess that
gem which those who hold it prize above all things. "The Scepticism of Pilate" is the title
of one of Robertson's greatest sermons. The preacher traces it to four sources: indecision; falseness
to his own convictions; the taint of the worldly temper of his day; and that priestly bigotry
which forbids inquiry, and makes doubt a crime. Pilate is the typical sceptic, who is worlds
removed from the "honest" doubter. Serious doubt, which is pained and anxious in the search of
truth, is in essence belief, for it believes in the value of truth, if only truth can be discovered;
but typical scepticism not only does not credit what the believer takes for truth, but despises
it as not worth seeking. That is the fatal doubt, a doubt that eats into the soul as a moral
canker.

Nevertheless, although what is of supreme value to Jesus is reckoned by Pilate as of no importance
whatever, the cross-examination has satisfied the magistrate of the innocence of his Prisoner.
His duty, then, is plain. He should acquit the innocent man.

But he dare not do so immediately. That howling mob of Jews and those odious priests and Sadducees
of the council are determined on the death of their victim. Pilate has made himself well hated
by the roughness of his government. Nothing would please the Jews and their leaders better
than to have some chance of impeaching him before his jealous master at Rome, on the charge of
leniency to treason. Pilate quails before the terrible possibility. In face of it he simply dares
not pronounce a verdict of acquittal. Yet he means to do all he can to effect the escape of his
Prisoner. His inbred instinct for justice prompts him to this; for the Romans cherished reverence
for law, and even so corrupt a ruler as Pilate was not independent of the atmosphere of his race.
Then it would be a bitter humiliation to let his judgment be overruled by those contemptible Jews.
He would be heartily glad to confound and disappoint them. More than this, he had begun to feel
some awakening interest in his remarkable Prisoner. He had come to the conclusion that Jesus
was a harmless dreamer; but he had felt some faint shadow of the spell of the wonderful Personality.
If only it could be managed with safety to himself, he would be glad
to have Jesus set free.

Accordingly
we now see Pilate resorting to a series of devices in order to escape from his vexatious dilemma.
From this point his conduct opens out to us a curious study in psychological phenomena. The ingenuity
of Pilate in resorting to one expedient after another, is very striking. Evidently he has keen wits,
and he uses them with some agility.

But it is all in vain. He is pushed from each of the positions he takes up by the same stubborn,
relentless pressure which he invariably finds to be irresistible. The explanation is, that though
he has intellect, he lacks will-power. On the other side there is not much need for intelligence,
but there is the most obstinate will. The Jews possess a clear notion of what they want, and
a set determination to have their way. In such a contest there is no doubt which side will win.
When will is bitter against intellect, it is the latter that succumbs. The determined will forces
itself through all opposition that rests only on intelligence, reasoning, contrivance. Intellect
does not count for nothing; allied to a strong will, as in Calvin, Cromwell, Napoleon, it
helps to effect gigantic results. But in the sphere of action, it is will-power that tells in
immediate results. Even here, reason may conquer stupid obstinacy in the long-run. But you
must give it time; and you must have honesty of character. Neither condition was present in
this case of Pilate. He had to decide promptly; and his moral nature was unsound. Such a man
under such circumstances will never find his most cunning devices a match for the set determination
of his opponents.

So Pilate, feebly protesting, helplessly scheming, is pushed back step by step; and ultimately
he concedes everything demanded of him, and the final issue is more humiliating to himself and
more cruel to the innocent Prisoner whom he is trying to shield, than it would have been if
he had yielded at the beginning. The real victim of this tragedy in the palace is not Jesus,
it is the soul of Pilate. We seem to see a weak man being thrust down a steep place, resisting
and catching at the shrubs and rocks that he passes, but torn from his grasp of them and finally
flung over the precipice.

Pilate's first device was to send Jesus to Herod Antipas, who happened to be at Jerusalem at
the time. It was a compliment to the frivolous "king of Galilee" to remit a Galilean prisoner
to his judgment, and Pilate would gladly rid himself of the awkward case by this ingenious device.
But it was useless, for the simple reason that Herod had no power of life and death in Jerusalem,
and Pilate soon had his Prisoner on his hands again. Next he clutched at the custom of releasing
a prisoner during the feast. Here was a chance for letting off Jesus without declaring Him innocent.
But this suggestion was hopeless.

If the Jews were set on effecting the death of Jesus, they would not give up their right to choose
their prisoners to be released, and take at the dictation of Pilate the very man they wanted to
have done to death. They clamoured for an insurgent, Barabbas, a man caught red-handed in the
very crime for which these hypocrites professed in their new-fledged loyalty to Caesar to be anxious
to have Jesus executed. The cynicism of their choice is palpable. By daring to make it, they show
in what contempt they hold Pilate. The governor loses ground considerably by this false move.
Then he tries to throw the blame of the murder of Jesus, which he sees he cannot prevent, on the
Jews. A new motive urges him to escape from the responsibility of committing a judicial murder.
His wife had sent a private message warning him to "have nothing to do with that righteous man."
She had been much disturbed by a dream about him. Romans were slaves to omens and auguries,
and the most materialistic of them felt some awe of dreams, although they had lost faith in
real religion. Your confirmed sceptic is often slavishly superstitious in the secret of his soul.
It is a way the spiritual has of avenging itself on the man who openly flouts it. Boldly flung
out of the window, it creeps back into the cellar and vexes the soul with petty tricks played on
the subterranean consciousness. The man who expels his good angel is haunted by imps and elves.
He who will not believe in God and despises truth succumbs to the
message of a dream.

More anxious now than ever to escape responsibility, Pilate calls
for water and publicly washes his hands, telling the Jews that the
innocent blood will be on their heads.

They accept the awful responsibility. What do they care for the weak
Roman's scruples?

He is doing their will, and of course no hand-washing can cleanse his conscience from the stain
of guilty compliance.

Yet one thing more Pilate will do. He will scourge Jesus. Perhaps that may satisfy these savage
Jews. For scourging was a savage punishment. The whip was loaded with lead and sharp fish-bones,
and at every stroke the flesh was cut. Men often died under this severe treatment. Pilate had
it inflicted on Jesus, knowing Him to be innocent; but hoping that, if He survived, no more might
be required. It was an abominable compromise. If Jesus were innocent-- and Pilate knew He was
innocent-- He should have been set free unscathed, with apologies for a mistaken arrest. If he were
guilty, of course he ought to receive the death-penalty for the crime of treason. Justice could allow
of no middle course. But Pilate is not thinking of Justice. He only wants to escape the onus
of killing an innocent man. Then he has Jesus brought forth, bleeding, in agony, His lacerated
flesh exposed to the view of that heartless multitude. "Behold the man," says Pilate. "Look
at your victim; is not this enough?" If Pilate thought his appeal ad misericordiam would touch
those hardened sinners of the Sanhedrin, he was strangely mistaken. The sight of their victim
in His agony only maddens them. They are like hounds who had tasted blood. Like hounds, they
"give tongue," and yell for His death. Pilate can resist no longer. He has played his last card,
and it has been taken. Thoroughly humiliated and quite helpless, he gives sentence, and so in spite
of the governor's desperate efforts to escape the stigma of his awful crime, it goes down to all
the ages that Jesus was "crucified under Pontius Pilate."

BARABBAS BY REV. J. G. GREENHOUGH, M. A. "And they cried out all
at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas."--
ST LUKE xxiii.

18.

You have heard a crowd of people cry out all at once. It is always impressive,
it is sometimes very terrible, occasionally it is sublime.

It begins in a way that no one can explain.

Somebody in the crowd utters a name, or ejaculates a brief sentence. What happens? Often nothing
at all. Men are not in the mood for it; it drops unnoticed, or provokes a jeer or two and is then
forgotten. But sometimes the word falls like a spark on a mass of dry tinder-- ten thousand
hearts have been prepared for it-- swift as a flash of lightning a sympathetic current passes
through the whole throng-- ten thousand lips take up the cry. They are all carried away by contagion,
magnetism, or madness, and a shout goes up enough to rend the sky. When
some great and noble sentiment has laid hold of them, the shout of
a people is one of the grandest things on earth; when it is some
awful prejudice, unreasoning hatred, or cowardly terror that sways
them, the shout is the most inhuman and hellish thing on earth; and
that was the character of the shout that was raised here.

The world has never forgotten that cry, and never will. To the very last the world will wonder
how it should have come to be raised, and will condemn and pity the crowd of people who gave themselves
up to it, for they were making a hero of the vilest stuff, and clamouring for the murder of
the world's one Divine man. There never was a more brutal and insane shout than that; never again
can there be a choice so fatal and so suicidal as the choice they
made: "Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas."

If the thing had not happened, we should say it was impossible. It seems well-nigh incredible
that human eyes and human hearts could be so blind. A story of this kind is food for the bitterest
cynic. He who has the most utter contempt for the race to which he belongs might find here almost
a justification of his scorn. Oh what a satire upon human nature, that a whole city full of people,
men, women, mothers and daughters, had come to this pass that they could not discern which was
the nobler of these two-- nay, thought that Barabbas was more deserving
of their honour.

One the very flower and crown of humanity, the express image of God; and the other a gaol bird,
a notorious criminal, whose hands had been dyed red, and whose heart had been hardened by the shedding
of blood. Well might those pitiful lips say, "Father forgive them, for they know not what
they do." Why did they do it? Why did they raise their voices for Barabbas? The main answer is
that men make their heroes as the heathen make gods, after their own image. There is no doubt that
Barabbas was more to the taste of this people, more according to their heart, than Christ;
or at least they thought he was; not quite their ideal man, perhaps, but certainly nearer
to their ideal than the Christ whom they rejected. It may be that they had had no particular love for
him until just now, possibly they had hardly thought of him at all; but now it was a question
between this man and Jesus, and Jesus they did not want at any price.

And their very hatred of the one made the other look beautiful.

Barabbas is our man, they said, and the more they said it the more they believed it; and each time the
name was repeated it sounded sweeter, until they were all shouting it, nine-tenths of them because
the others shouted it, and until they really made themselves believe that in this man they had got a veritable
hero and hardly less than a god. That is always what happens in such cases, the greater part begin
shouting for no particular reason because a few others have led the way, and they end by believing
that the man whom they are acclaiming is almost divine; yet it is certain that they elected this
man on the whole because of the two he had more points in common with them, this poor despicable
and very unheroic thing was the person whom they delighted to honour because they themselves
were very unheroic and somewhat despicable. We cannot see the greatness of a truly great man
unless there is just a bit of greatness in ourselves; Christ was too big and too divine to be
seen and measured by their small and vulgar eyes.

Barabbas was about their size, and they raised their voices for him. We have had Carlyle's words quoted
to us a thousand times about heroes and hero-worship-- how it is
part of human nature to go after heroes and make them-- how the world
has always been given up to this worship, and always will be. We all
revere and follow great men, or those whom we deem great, which is not
quite the same thing. And it is a beautiful feature in human nature
if it is wisely directed, if we can only set our hearts on the true
heroes and follow them.

It is not beautiful at all when we make our gods of clay, and shout ourselves hoarse in exalting to the
skies creatures as undivine and quite as small as we are. Heroes are sometimes easily made to-day,
and martyrs too. Modern martyrdom of the popular sort is about the
least costly thing going.

It calls for no tears and blood, it can be gained on very easy terms. You have only to break
a law which you do not like, or your conscience does not approve, and to be brought up for it with
an admiring crowd accompanying you, and to have a fine imposed, which is paid for, perhaps,
by popular subscription-- and lo, you are a martyr. I am not calling in question the thing itself.
It may be both right and Christian to refuse obedience to a law on extreme occasions; but to
call this martyrdom is extravagant and almost humorous. It was not so in the olden time when the
real martyrs were made.

No, those martyrs were not delicately handled, but stripped and stoned to pieces, and burned,
and there were no crowds to greet them with bravoes and caresses, but furious mobs clamouring
for their blood. We have changed all that indeed, thank God: but they were heroes and martyrs
indeed, and it sounds to me somewhat like a desecration of the word to apply
it to men and even women who are good, probably brave in a way, but who
win their crown of glory very cheaply indeed. If we are to have heroes,
let us make sure that they possess some heroic stuff. There is a vast amount
of hero-worship to-day which reminds us too much of that shout for Barabbas.
We are glorifying the wrong people; at least, most of us are.

It is one of the deplorable weaknesses of the
times, or if you like it better, it is one of the fashions or crazes
to which human nature at times gives itself up. The heroes of the crowd,
of the great mass of people, are not the good men, not the men of light
and leading, not the men who are morally great or even intellectually
great, not the men who are the strength and salt of a nation, but
the men who minister to its pleasures, and lead the way in sports.  Even a conquest
of England was nothing new, and William at this stage contrasted favourably with Cnut, whose
early days were marked by the death of not a few.  William, at any rate since his crowning,
had shed the blood of no man.  Men perhaps thought that things might have been much worse,
and that they were not unlikely to mend.  Anyhow, weakened, cowed, isolated, the people of
the conquered shires submitted humbly to the Conqueror's will.  It needed a kind of oppression
of which William himself was never guilty to stir them into actual revolt.

The provocation was not long in coming.  Within three months after his coronation, William
paid a visit to his native duchy.  The ruler of two states could not be always in either; he
owed it to his old subjects to show himself among them in his new character; and his absence
might pass as a sign of the trust he put in his new subjects.  But the means which he took
to secure their obedience brought out his one weak point.  We cannot believe that he really
wished to goad the people into rebellion; yet the choice of his lieutenants might seem almost
like it.  He was led astray by partiality for his brother and for his dearest friend.  To Bishop
Ode of Bayeux, and to William Fitz-Osbern, the son of his early guardian, he gave earldoms,
that of Kent to Odo, that of Hereford to William.  The Conqueror was determined before all
things that his kingdom should be united and obedient; England should not be split up like
Gaul and Germany; he would have no man in England whose formal homage should carry with it
as little of practical obedience as his own homage to the King of the French.  A Norman earl
of all Wessex or all Mercia might strive after such a position.  William therefore forsook
the old practice of dividing the whole kingdom into earldoms.  In the peaceful central shires
he would himself rule through his sheriffs and other immediate officers; he would appoint earls
only in dangerous border districts where they were needed as military commanders.  All William's
earls were in fact marquesses, guardians of a march or frontier.  Ode had to keep Kent against
attacks from the continent; William Fitz- Osbern had to keep Herefordshire against the Welsh
and the independent English.  This last shire had its own local warfare. William's authority
did not yet reach over all the shires beyond London and Hereford; but Harold had allowed some
of Edward's Norman favourites to keep power there.  Hereford then and part of its shire formed
an isolated part of William's dominions, while the lands around remained unsubdued.  William
Fitz-Osbern had to guard this dangerous land as earl.  But during the King's absence both he
and Ode received larger commissions as viceroys over the whole kingdom.  Ode guarded the South
and William the North and North- East.  Norwich, a town dangerous from its easy communication
with Denmark, was specially under his care.  The nominal earls of the rest of the land, Edwin,
Morkere, and Waltheof, with Edgar, King of a moment, Archbishop Stigand, and a number of other
chief men, William took with him to Normandy.  Nominally his cherished friends and guests,
they went in truth, as one of the English Chroniclers calls them, as hostages.

William's stay in Normandy lasted about six months.  It was chiefly devoted to rejoicings and
religious ceremonies, but partly to Norman legislation.  Rich gifts from the spoils of England
were given to the churches of Normandy; gifts richer still were sent to the Church of Rome
whose favour had wrought so much for William. In exchange for the banner of Saint Peter, Harold's
standard of the Fighting-man was sent as an offering to the head of all churches. While William
was in Normandy, Archbishop Maurilius of Rouen died. The whole duchy named Lanfranc as his
successor; but he declined the post, and was himself sent to Rome to bring the pallium for
the new archbishop John, a kinsman of the ducal house.  Lanfranc doubtless refused the see
of Rouen only because he was designed for a yet greater post in England; the subtlest diplomatist
in Europe was not sent to Rome merely to ask for the pallium for Archbishop John.

Meanwhile William's choice of lieutenants bore its fruit in England.  They wrought such oppression
as William himself never wrought.  The inferior leaders did as they thought good, and the two
earls restrained them not.  The earls meanwhile were in one point there faithfully carrying
out the policy of their master in the building of castles; a work, which specially when the
work of Ode and William Fitz-Osbern, is always spoken of by the native writers with marked
horror.  The castles were the badges and the instruments of the Conquest, the special means
of holding the land in bondage.  Meanwhile tumults broke forth in various parts.  The slaughter
of Copsige, William's earl in Northumberland, took place about the time of the King's sailing
for Normandy.  In independent Herefordshire the leading Englishman in those parts, Eadric,
whom the Normans called the Wild, allied himself with the Welsh, harried the obedient lands,
and threatened the castle of Hereford.  Nothing was done on either side beyond harrying and
skirmishes; but Eadric's corner of the land remained unsubdued.  The men of Kent made a strange
foreign alliance with Eustace of Boulogne, the brother-in-law of Edward, the man whose deeds
had led to the great movement of Edward's reign, to the banishment and the return of Godwine.
He had fought against England on Senlac, and was one of four who had dealt the last blow to
the wounded Harold.  But the oppression of Ode made the Kentishmen glad to seek any help against
him.  Eustace, now William's enemy, came over, and gave help in an unsuccessful attack on Dover
castle.  Meanwhile in the obedient shires men were making ready for revolt; in the unsubdued
lands they were making ready for more active defence.  Many went beyond sea to ask for foreign
help, specially in the kindred lands of Denmark and Northern Germany.  Against this threatening
movement William's strength lay in the incapacity of his enemies for combined action.  The
whole land never rose at once, and Danish help did not come at the times or in the shape when
it could have done most good.

The news of these movements brought William back to England in December.  He kept the Midwinter
feast and assembly at Westminster; there the absent Eustace was, by a characteristic stroke
of policy, arraigned as a traitor.  He was a foreign prince against whom the Duke of the Normans
might have led a Norman army.  But he had also become an English landowner, and in that character
he was accountable to the King and Witan of England.  He suffered the traitor's punishment
of confiscation of lands.  Afterwards he contrived to win back William's favour, and he left
great English possessions to his second wife and his son.  Another stroke of policy was to
send an embassy to Denmark, to ward off the hostile purposes of Swegen, and to choose as ambassador
an English prelate who had been in high favour with both Edward and Harold, AEthelsige, Abbot
of Ramsey.  It came perhaps of his mission that Swegen practically did nothing for two years.
The envoy's own life was a chequered one.  He lost William's favour, and sought shelter in
Denmark.  He again regained William's favour--perhaps by some service at the Danish court--and
died in possession of his abbey.

It is instructive to see how in this same assembly William bestowed several great offices.
The earldom of Northumberland was vacant by the slaughter of two earls, the bishopric of Dorchester
by the peaceful death of its bishop.  William had no real authority in any part of Northumberland,
or in more than a small part of the diocese of Dorchester.  But he dealt with both earldom
and bishopric as in his own power.  It was now that he granted Northumberland to Gospatric.
The appointment to the bishopric was the beginning of a new system.  Englishmen were now to
give way step by step to strangers in the highest offices and greatest estates of the land.
He had already made two Norman earls, but they were to act as military commanders.  He now
made an English earl, whose earldom was likely to be either nominal or fatal.  The appointment
of Remigius of Fecamp to the see of Dorchester was of more real importance.  It is the beginning
of William's ecclesiastical reign, the first step in William's scheme of making the Church
his instrument in keeping down the conquered.  While William lived, no Englishman was appointed
to a bishopric.  As bishoprics became vacant by death, foreigners were nominated, and excuses
were often found for hastening a vacancy by deprivation.  At the end of William's reign one
English bishop only was left.  With abbots, as having less temporal power than bishops, the
rule was less strict. Foreigners were preferred, but Englishmen were not wholly shut out. And
the general process of confiscation and regrant of lands was vigorously carried out.  The Kentish
revolt and the general movement must have led to many forfeitures and to further grants to
loyal men of either nation.  As the English Chronicles pithily puts it, "the King gave away
every man's land."

William could soon grant lands in new parts of England.  In February 1068 he for the first
time went forth to warfare with those whom he called his subjects, but who had never submitted
to him.  In the course of the year a large part of England was in arms against him.  But there
was no concert; the West rose and the North rose; but the West rose first, and the North did
not rise till the West had been subdued.  Western England threw off the purely passive state
which had lasted through the year 1067.  Hitherto each side had left the other alone.  But
now the men of the West made ready for a more direct opposition to the foreign government.
If they could not drive William out of what he had already won, they would at least keep him
from coming any further.  Exeter, the greatest city of the West, was the natural centre of
resistance; the smaller towns, at least of Devonshire and Dorset entered into a league with
the capital.  They seem to have aimed, like Italian cities in the like case, at the formation
of a civic confederation, which might perhaps find it expedient to acknowledge William as an
external lord, but which would maintain perfect internal independence.  Still, as Gytha, widow
of Godwine, mother of Harold, was within the walls of Exeter, the movement was doubtless also
in some sort on behalf of the House of Godwine.  In any case, Exeter and the lands and towns
in its alliance with Exeter strengthened themselves in every way against attack.

Things were not now as on the day of Senlac, when Englishmen on their own soil withstood one
who, however he might cloke his enterprise, was to them simply a foreign invader.  But William
was not yet, as he was in some later struggles, the de facto king of the whole land, whom all
had acknowledged, and opposition to whom was in form rebellion.  He now held an intermediate
position.  He was still an invader; for Exeter had never submitted to him; but the crowned
King of the English, peacefully ruling over many shires, was hardly a mere invader; resistance
to him would have the air of rebellion in the eyes of many besides William and his flatterers. This
is to win the highest prize of life. Not only because God is highest and noblest of beings,
but also because His pleasure presupposes great moral and spiritual qualities, and unfolds itself
in blessings of untold preciousness both in this life and that which is to come. The pleasure
of the Lord is graduated to the intrinsic beauty or value possessed by the object which draws
it out. It was manifested when the great creation stood in finished order before Him, and He
pronounced it "only good." But of a higher kind is that pleasure said to be taken by Him in
His only-begotten Son, in His people, and in His Church.

Over these He rejoices with singing, as He rests in His love. Of such pleasure Enoch was the recipient,
and it was bestowed upon him in a most signal and unique manner. Two especial qualities are
indispensable to those with whom God is pleased. One is faith-- "Without faith it is impossible
to please God" (Heb. xi. 6). The other is uprightness-- "I know also, my God, that Thou hast pleasure
in uprightness" (1 Chron. xxix. 17). The former grace is the superlative and distinguishing feature
of the people of God. It is indeed the foundation quality on which all others rest, and from
which they spring. It is the broad separating act which marks the difference between the saint
and the sinner. Without it man is in opposition to God. The Divine displeasure rests upon him, because
absence of faith means want of confidence and want of sympathy. The unbeliever distrusts God,
and has no fellow-feeling with Him or His ways.

There is no more offensive feeling that can be shown by one being towards another than distrust.
It irritates our sensibility; it arrays in opposition all the resentment of our nature. It is
the parent of gloom, dissatisfaction, pessimism, and rebellion. It writes discontent on the
brow, and bitterness on the heart. It is the fruitful parent of all ill in human nature. But
faith pleases God. It draws the human and Divine into loving association. It leads the human
to look to the Divine for counsel, to lean upon Him for help, to refer all things to His decision,
to wait on Him for guidance in every step and enterprise in life. The faith of the patriarchs
seems to have been characterised by entire simplicity and childlikeness. As manifested by
Enoch, Noah, and Abraham, all of whom had the pleasure of the Lord resting on them in a pre-eminent
degree, there was no stumbling or hesitancy. Some of them had their faith severely tried, but it
came forth from the test victorious, as "gold tried in the fire." Therefore, if the command of
God was hard, faith led to obedience; if the mystery of life was
deep, faith drew them close to the Father; if the sense of sin and
guilt was strong, faith never failed, but led them to look for the
promised Redeemer, and they rejoiced to see His day and were glad.

Faith is said to be difficult to exercise in this day of bustle, excitement, and pressure.
The differences between this day and Enoch's day are merely accidental and not essential. There
were the same inducements and temptations to evil then as now.

There were scoffers and cavillers then as now. The doubting spirit in our first parents and
in Cain was felt in all; but there was also the strong and manly faith which resisted the
sin of doubt, which looked from the seen to the unseen, from the temporal to the eternal,
from sin and folly to God, and which established itself firmly on His promise of unchangeable
love. Therefore Enoch "pleased God." Faith presupposes reverence, love, obedience, and man never
pays a higher tribute to another than to trust him implicitly and for all in all. Such faith
God accepts and delights in. Such faith builds a noble character
and a lofty life.

III.

"He was translated that he should not see death."

That was the crowning evidence and token of the Divine pleasure. Death is the wages of sin, the
harbinger of retribution, the seal of man's humiliation and defeat. The fear of death is a bondage
under which the race of man lies, save only where Christian faith and hope alleviate the terror
and inspire a superhuman courage before which all fear is banished. The extraordinary nature
of Enoch's piety could not be demonstrated by any fact so imperative
as this, "He was translated."

There are three complete men in heaven. Man is threefold in his nature. He is body, soul, and
spirit. He is not complete without his bodily organisation. The work of faith is not perfect, nor
is the work of sin undone until at the Resurrection trump man shall stand complete in his threefold
being. But of that completeness there are three specimens in heaven; Enoch from the patriarchal
epoch; Elijah from the Jewish dispensation; and Christ from the Christian. The translation of
Elijah was a marvellously dramatic episode. It was witnessed by Elisha and the sons of the
prophets-- and a heavenly equipage, lambent with supernal glow, carried him in triumph out of sight.
But as to Enoch there was no such scenic display. "He was not found, for God took him." It was
a quiet but beautifully fitting end. Moonlight rising into sunlight, the sweet calm light of
a starlit sky becoming flushed with the auroral tints of a brilliant
morning.

Translation means promotion, and also expansion.

It is promotion in honour, in office, in privilege. The bishop is translated from Rochester to Winchester
and thence to Canterbury, because he has pleased his party and his sovereign. It is a sign that
he has won promotion by devoted service. Christ says to his follower, "Occupy till I come"; and
after a due period of labour well discharged, he says, "Come up higher." The rule of the Divine
Kingdom is, "faithful in that which is least," then, "ruler over that which is much." Translation
to Enoch meant the elevation to higher duties and enjoyments without the wearing agonies of
disease, the sharpness of death, or the darkness of the grave.

It meant also expansion. In the passing from a lower to a higher condition, we cannot now realise
the quick change which would pass over the material framework of the patriarch, but that it would
be etherialised so as to be "a heavenly body" marvellously endowed with new powers of sense, of
insight and locomotion, fit to be the instrument of a soul fully redeemed from the consequences
of sin, we cannot doubt; and for thousands of generations has that soul sunned itself in the brightest
fellowships and employments of the highest heaven.

ELDAD AND MEDAD BY REV. ALFRED ROWLAND, D. D., LL.

B. NUMBERS xi. 24-30.

Nothing is known of these two men beyond the incident recorded in
the Book of Numbers; but this is so remarkable and significant, that
it well repays careful study.

The Israelites had been once more displaying suspicion and ingratitude. Turning with loathing from
the manna, they whimpered, like spoilt children, for the fish and
flesh they had enjoyed in Egypt, and murmured against God and against
Moses.

The patience of their leader, under this new provocation, completely broke down, so that he went so
far as to accuse God Himself of being a hard taskmaster, who had laid too much upon him. Instead
of beginning with an angry rebuke, help and relief are first given, and then in a few calm
words the needed counsel is proffered. It was in a spirit of patient love that God appointed
elders from among the people to help his over-wrought servant and share his heavy burden. Moses
was, no doubt, justified in saying, "I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy
for me." Indeed it was well for him, as it is for us all, to feel the need there is for human
sympathy and Divine aid.

Self-contained, self-reliant men are not the highest type of humanity, and they are sometimes for
their own good visited by anxieties and responsibilities which compel them to cry, "Lord help
me." Thus was it with Moses. Indeed, our Lord Himself shared that experience, when for our sakes He became
man. He chose comrades who were a blessing to Himself, although He was a far greater blessing to
them. He took them with Him when he went forth to confront the crises of His life-- on the
Mount of Transfiguration, and in the Garden of Gethsemane, where His sorrow was intensified by
their failure to watch with Him. He had three specially intimate friends. He called twelve to
be apostles, and sent forth seventy as missioners-- an arrangement in which we see the New Testament
counterpart of the choosing of these seventy-two elders, to rule and judge the Israelites, and thus
share the responsibility of Moses. The account given us of their appointment is singularly interesting.
Six men out of each of the twelve tribes were summoned to the Tabernacle, solemnly set apart and
filled with the Spirit-- but two of the men-- Eldad and Medad-- were
absent "They were of them written to" is the exact phrase-- and the
fact that they received a written summons denotes a higher and more
general culture among that ancient people than is generally imagined
to have existed.

Yet it is what might be reasonably expected, for they had come out of Egypt, the most civilised
power then in the world, a country where the usual writing materials
were exclusively made. Though the Israelites had been only slaves there,
they would doubtless be familiar with the art of writing, for the
men of that race have never yet lagged behind any people among whom
they have lived. Seventy of the men thus summoned came together promptly,
and were ranged in a semicircle before the Tabernacle.

Then, in the sight of all the people, the cloud descended, wrapped them all in impenetrable mist,
as a sign that the chosen men were being mysteriously baptised with the Spirit, and when again
they emerged they began to prophesy. It was the ancient counterpart of the day of Pentecost, when
the disciples met, and the Spirit came upon them as a mighty, rushing wind, and they began
to speak with other tongues, as men chosen and inspired by God.

In the 25th verse of the eleventh chapter of Numbers, it is said that "the Lord took of the spirit
that was upon Moses, and gave it unto the seventy elders." Some conclude from this statement
that, as a punishment for his intemperate prayer, the wisdom of Moses was thus lessened,
while others were enriched at his expense. But wisdom, and all gifts similar to it, are not diminished
by distribution. If we impart information, we do not lessen our own store of knowledge. If we give
of our love lavishly, yet affection is not lessened by such outpouring.

The spread of fire over what is inflammable increases its intensity. Though we light a thousand candles
from one which burned alone at first, it still burns brightly as before. So is it with the Spirit
of whose fulness we all receive. No Christian man is poorer because his brother is enriched with
grace, nor was Moses. "There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth." It is time that we turned
to the two men, Eldad and Medad, who, although summoned with their brethren, did not come to the assembly
at the Tabernacle. They may have been absent from their tents when the papyrus letter was delivered,
and would not be quickly found in the vast camp. Be this as it may, what followed is evidence
that they did not wilfully disobey the summons, and that their absence was not due to any bad motive.
For some reason unknown to us they failed to put in an appearance at the critical time, when others
of the elect were receiving the mysterious but efficient grace of
the Spirit.

Yet, at one and the same moment, they also were inspired while walking together,
as they probably were doing, in some far-off part of the camp. To
the amazement of the people, and doubtless to their own amazement
too, they suddenly began to prophesy, and crowds of listeners quickly
gathered round them, as on Pentecost they ran together to hear the
inspired apostles.

This unique experience was given by God, and received by the people as convincing evidence that Eldad
and Medad were divinely appointed, and divinely qualified, equally with their brethren nearer the Tabernacle.
It is true that Joshua exhibited some jealousy and suspicion, and would have silenced them because
the blessing had not come through Moses; but the great law-giver, with characteristic insight
and generosity, would not heed the request-- "My lord Moses, forbid them." Calmly, yet decisively,
the answer rang out, "Enviest thou for my sake? Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets,
and that the Lord would put His spirit upon them!" In the experience of these two men there
is imbedded valuable and permanent truth. We regard it as an evidence, the more remarkable
because given under a ceremonial regime, that God did not intend to institute any order of
men outside the limits of which there was to be no liberty of prophesying and no fitness for
it. Nor is there any exclusively sacred place, be it tabernacle, temple, synagogue, or church,
where alone such gifts can be conferred. We believe that outside all sacred places, outside
the churches of our own faith and order, and of any other churches, there are men, and women
too, equally called of God with those within such limits, and the evidence that they are so called
lies in the fact that in them also the Spirit of God is resting, and through them the Spirit of God
is working.

This lesson, which still needs to be enforced in our own day, is perhaps best deduced from an incident
so early and so simple as this. Just as we may learn more of the way in which an engine really
works from a simple model-- say of George Stephenson's-- than from one of the complicated machines
of the present day, so we may gain the more instruction from this incident, because of its very
simple character, while its antiquity keeps it out of the confusion caused by modern controversies.
Eldad and Medad were men called of God to undertake holy service for the good of His people. In
their case the call was manifestly inward rather than outward. Though truly chosen, they were not in
the Tabernacle, nor were they wrapped in the cloud, and they received no ordination from the laying
on of hands by Moses and Aaron.

The evidence of their call lay in their fitness for the work, and their fitness was due to the gift of
the Spirit. Yet all this occurred under a dispensation which was far more strict in ceremonial
law than that under which we live. What does it teach? It surely confirms our belief that the word
of God is not bound. The exposition and enforcement of Divine truth
is not to be confined to those who have received priestly ordination
by some outward rite.

No man therefore has the right to forbid any preacher from exercising his functions on the ground
that his orders are not regular, or because he has not been recognised by an Episcopate, a
Presbytery, a Conference, or a Union. To put the same truth in hortatory form, I would say to any one
who has knowledge of Divine truth, who has experienced the graces of the Holy Spirit, and
who has the gift of utterance: You are called upon, by the fact of possessing these qualifications,
to serve God as opportunity comes.

You ought not to be silent on the claims of Christ, nor should you refrain from leading others in prayer,
while on every other topic you are fluency itself. "Neglect not the gift that is in thee," whether it
came by laying on of hands, or in some other way. The work assigned
too often exclusively to the minister is really the work of the Church.
Happily, speech is not the only mode in which men can serve God. It is clear
from the Hebrew narrative that Eldad and Medad, like their brethren
at the door of the Tabernacle, did not receive an abiding gift of
prophecy, but a transient sign which seemed adequate to convince the
people that they had been chosen and inspired.

Unfortunately, the Authorised
Version gives us a phrase which is the exact opposite of the meaning
of the Hebrew phrase in the twenty-fifth verse, rendering it thus,
"They prophesied, and did not cease." The Revised Version sets this right
in the phrase, "They prophesied, but they did so no more." In other
words, the singular manifestation of power soon passed away. It was not
a permanent possession. This is in harmony with the experience of the
early Christian Church. The miraculous power given to the apostles,
as evidence of their Divine commission, was not always at their disposal.
The gift of tongues bestowed on them, and on others, soon ceased;
for it was intended to show the supernatural origin of Christianity
until written evidence was available, and then it was withdrawn.

The Holy
Spirit still remained in the Church, and was revealed in a diversity
of operations.  The
harrying of Northumberland showed that he now shrank from no harshness that would serve his
ends; but from mere purposeless oppression he was still free.  Nor was he ever inclined to
needless change or to that scorn of the conquered which meaner conquerors have often shown.
He clearly wished both to change and to oppress as little as he could.  This is a side of him
which has been greatly misunderstood, largely through the book that passes for the History
of Ingulf Abbot of Crowland.  Ingulf was William's English secretary; a real history of his
writing would be most precious.  But the book that goes by his name is a forgery not older
than the fourteenth century, and is in all points contradicted by the genuine documents of
the time.  Thus the forger makes William try to abolish the English language and order the
use of French in legal writings. This is pure fiction.  The truth is that, from the time of
William's coming, English goes out of use in legal writings, but only gradually, and not in
favour of French.  Ever since the coming of Augustine, English and Latin had been alternative
tongues; after the coming of William English becomes less usual, and in the course of the twelfth
century it goes out of use in favour of Latin. There are no French documents till the thirteenth
century, and in that century English begins again.  Instead of abolishing the English tongue,
William took care that his English-born son should learn it, and he even began to learn it
himself.  A king of those days held it for his duty to hear and redress his subjects' complaints;
he had to go through the land and see for himself that those who acted in his name did right
among his people.  This earlier kings had done; this William wished to do; but he found his
ignorance of English a hindrance.  Cares of other kinds checked his English studies, but he
may have learned enough to understand the meaning of his own English charters.  Nor did William
try, as he is often imagined to have done, to root out the ancient institutions of England,
and to set up in their stead either the existing institutions of Normandy or some new institutions
of his own devising.  The truth is that with William began a gradual change in the laws and
customs of England, undoubtedly great, but far less than is commonly thought.  French names
have often supplanted English, and have made the amount of change seem greater than it really
was.  Still much change did follow on the Norman Conquest, and the Norman Conquest was so completely
William's own act that all that came of it was in some sort his act also.  But these changes
were mainly the gradual results of the state of things which followed William's coming; they
were but very slightly the results of any formal acts of his.  With a foreign king and foreigners
in all high places, much practical change could not fail to follow, even where the letter of
the law was unchanged.  Still the practical change was less than if the letter of the law had
been changed as well.  English law was administered by foreign judges; the foreign grantees
of William held English land according to English law.  The Norman had no special position
as a Norman; in every rank except perhaps the very highest and the very lowest, he had Englishmen
to his fellows.  All this helped to give the Norman Conquest of England its peculiar character,
to give it an air of having swept away everything English, while its real work was to turn
strangers into Englishmen.  And that character was impressed on William's work by William himself.
The king claiming by legal right, but driven to assert his right by the sword, was unlike both
the foreign king who comes in by peaceful succession and the foreign king who comes in without
even the pretext of law.  The Normans too, if born soldiers, were also born lawyers, and no
man was more deeply impressed with the legal spirit than William himself.  He loved neither
to change the law nor to transgress the law, and he had little need to do either.  He knew
how to make the law his instrument, and, without either changing or transgressing it, to use
it to make himself all-powerful.  He thoroughly enjoyed that system of legal fictions and official
euphemisms which marks his reign.  William himself became in some sort an Englishman, and those
to whom he granted English lands had in some sort to become Englishmen in order to hold them.
The Norman stepped into the exact place of the Englishman whose land he held; he took his rights
and his burthens, and disputes about those rights and burthens were judged according to English
law by the witness of Englishmen.  Reigning over two races in one land, William would be lord
of both alike, able to use either against the other in case of need.  He would make the most
of everything in the feelings and customs of either that tended to strengthen his own hands.
And, in the state of things in which men then found themselves, whatever strengthened William's
hands strengthened law and order in his kingdom.

There was therefore nothing to lead William to make any large changes in the letter of the
English law.  The powers of a King of the English, wielded as he knew how to wield them, made
him as great as he could wish to be.  Once granting the original wrong of his coming at all
and bringing a host of strangers with him, there is singularly little to blame in the acts
of the Conqueror.  Of bloodshed, of wanton interference with law and usage, there is wonderfully
little.  Englishmen and Normans were held to have settled down in peace under the equal protection
of King William. The two races were drawing together; the process was beginning which, a hundred
years later, made it impossible, in any rank but the highest and the lowest, to distinguish
Norman from Englishman. Among the smaller landowners and the townsfolk this intermingling had
already begun, while earls and bishops were not yet so exclusively Norman, nor had the free
churls of England as yet sunk so low as at a later stage. And while she was gloomily predicting
his future with the black colours of her despondency, God was writing the child's story in
golden lines which would have set her heart leaping for joy could she have read them. This
despised one was to win for himself a noble name, and build up the house in honour, and become
his mother's pride, and make her young again in hope and gladness.

What fools we are when we set ourselves to forecast the future of our children! They rarely
develop on the lines we draw for them; the most promising of them sometimes flatter us in the
bud and blossom, and mock us in the fruit. Where we hope most there comes most heartache, our
favourites are made our burdens, our pride is humbled by a harvest of sorrow. And where we
have bestowed most tenderness we get most ingratitude-- the child of many gifts, the joy of the
household, the flower of the flock, turns out the nightmare of our lives, the one unhappy failure
which costs us endless tears.

And perhaps it is partly our own fault, because we have pampered, flattered, and indulged them
too much. Ah! and just as often the reverse is true-- the child whom in our hearts we called Jabez;
the slow, dull child so hard to teach, so unresponsive, or perhaps so wilful and obstinate that
we never thought or spoke of him save with secret fears and misgivings-- the child who was always to
be a burden and a cross to us, develops by-and-by in beautiful and unexpected ways, grows
into moral strength and religious grace, becomes honourable in the sight of all men, and saves
our old age from going down with sorrow to the grave. The golden harvest of our lives grows not where
we look for it, but often in the neglected places where God bids it grow. Where our pride
built its palace of content we find emptiness and shame, and that which we almost cursed God
for sending us becomes our crown of rejoicing. She called his name Jabez, my sorrow, and lo!
he became her very consolation, most honourable of all.

II.

Faith wins the battle of life against many odds.

Yes! this is indeed a romance of faith-- faith overcoming the world. This child or youth starts
out with all things against him. He is likely to grow up into an Ishmaelite if he grows up
at all. He starts with an ill-starred name-- a name that spells misfortune. He starts without
his mother's blessing and without a glimmer of hope to cheer him; no father to give him a helping
hand by the way-- without endowment, fortune, family, or friends. What chance can there be in
the race for one so heavily handicapped? Failure is written on his brow by the hand that nursed him.
Failure is written on all his circumstances. It will be a desperate struggle all through. There
will be none of the prizes of life for him. If he gets a bare living wage, it is as much as
he may expect.

That is what he has before him, apparently! Well, for one thing, he puts on courage, and starts
on his way singing Nil desperandum. And then, knowing well that he has few or no human friends,
he falls back on the Father of the fatherless and the Helper of those who have no other help.
He relies on faith instead of fortune. He will make prayer his main weapon, and the light of
the Lord his guide, and duty his pole star. He will pursue a straight course, avoiding evil,
trying to feel the hand of God upon him, and the watchful eyes of God over him. And he will
make a brave fight of it day by day, doing his best, and leave a higher power to determine what shall
follow. That is what we read between the lines of this story. Nay, that is all expressed. "He called on the
God of Israel." He committed his life to the ordering of the Almighty. And the Almighty promoted
him. He became more honourable than his brethren.

They are poor creatures who complain that the battle is lost before
it is even begun, who groan that the chances of life are all against
them before they have made one brave venture and endeavour; and they
are vain and self-deceiving men who fancy that the victory will be
easy because somebody has given them a good start, and they have the
backing of family, social position, wealth, and mental gifts. If some
of you think because your fathers stand high, because your education
has been well looked after, because there are unlimited money and
plenty of friends to push you on-- if you think that because of these
things you can dispense with the fear of God, and the daily obligations
of duty, and make pleasure and self-indulgence your main ends, and
do without honest, persevering, self-denying toil, you will be miserably
disappointed. God has some hard things to say to you before you get
far on in years. It does not matter how promising one's beginnings,
if there is no steady, conscientious brave self-discipline, and endeavour.
  If an Englishman appealed a Frenchman and declined to prove his charge either way,
the Frenchman might clear himself by oath.  But these privileges were strictly confined to
Frenchmen who had come with William and after him.  Frenchmen who had in Edward's time settled
in England as the land of their own choice, reckoned as Englishmen. Other enactments, fresh
enactments of older laws, touched both races.  The slave trade was rife in its worst form;
men were sold out of the land, chiefly to the Danes of Ireland.  Earlier kings had denounced
the crime, and earlier bishops had preached against it.  William denounced it again under the
penalty of forfeiture of all lands and goods, and Saint Wulfstan, the Bishop of Worcester,
persuaded the chief offenders, Englishmen of Bristol, to give up their darling sin for a season.
Yet in the next reign Anselm and his synod had once more to denounce the crime under spiritual
penalties, when they had no longer the strong arm of William to enforce them.

Another law bears more than all the personal impress of William. In it he at once, on one side,
forestalls the most humane theories of modern times, and on the other sins most directly against
them. His remarkable unwillingness to put any man to death, except among the chances of the
battle-field, was to some extent the feeling of his age.  With him the feeling takes the shape
of a formal law.  He forbids the infliction of death for any crime whatever.  But those who
may on this score be disposed to claim the Conqueror as a sympathizer will be shocked at the
next enactment.  Those crimes which kings less merciful than William would have punished with
death are to be punished with loss of eyes or other foul and cruel mutilations.  Punishments
of this kind now seem more revolting than death, though possibly, now as then, the sufferer
himself might think otherwise.  But in those days to substitute mutilation for death, in the
case of crimes which were held to deserve death, was universally deemed an act of mercy.  Grave
men shrank from sending their fellow-creatures out of the world, perhaps without time for repentance;
but physical sympathy with physical suffering had little place in their minds.  In the next
century a feeling against bodily mutilation gradually comes in; but as yet the mildest and
most thoughtful men, Anselm himself, make no protest against it when it is believed to be really
deserved.  There is no sign of any general complaint on this score.  The English Chronicler
applauds the strict police of which mutilation formed a part, and in one case he deliberately
holds it to be the fitting punishment of the offence.  In fact, when penal settlements were
unknown and legal prisons were few and loathsome, there was something to be said for a punishment
which disabled the criminal from repeating his offence.  In William's jurisprudence mutilation
became the ordinary sentence of the murderer, the robber, the ravisher, sometimes also of English
revolters against William's power.  We must in short balance his mercy against the mercy of
Kirk and Jeffreys.

The ground on which the English Chronicler does raise his wail on behalf of his countrymen
is the special jurisprudence of the forests and the extortions of money with which he charges
the Conqueror.  In both these points the royal hand became far heavier under the Norman rule.
In both William's character grew darker as he grew older.  He is charged with unlawful exactions
of money, in his character alike of sovereign and of landlord.  We read of his sharp practice
in dealing with the profits of the royal demesnes. He would turn out the tenant to whom he
had just let the land, if another offered a higher rent.  But with regard to taxation, we must
remember that William's exactions, however heavy at the time, were a step in the direction
of regular government.  In those days all taxation was disliked.  Direct taking of the subject's
money by the King was deemed an extraordinary resource to be justified only by some extraordinary
emergency, to buy off the Danes or to hire soldiers against them.  Men long after still dreamed
that the King could "live of his own," that he could pay all expenses of his court and government
out of the rents and services due to him as a landowner, without asking his people for anything
in the character of sovereign.  Demands of money on behalf of the King now became both heavier
and more frequent.  And another change which had long been gradually working now came to a
head.  When, centuries later, the King was bidden to "live of his own," men had forgotten that
the land of the King had once been the land of the nation.  In all Teutonic communities, great
and small, just as in the city communities of Greece and Italy, the community itself was a
chief landowner.  The nation had its folkland, its ager publicus, the property of no one man
but of the whole state.  Out of this, by the common consent, portions might be cut off and
booked--granted by a written document--to particular men as their own bookland.  The King might
have his private estate, to be dealt with at his own pleasure, but of the folkland, the land
of the nation, he was only the chief administrator, bound to act by the advice of his Witan.
But in this case more than in others, the advice of the Witan could not fail to become formal;
the folkland, ever growing through confiscations, ever lessening through grants, gradually
came to be looked on as the land of the King, to be dealt with as he thought good.  We must
not look for any change formally enacted; but in Edward's day the notion of folkland, as the
possession of the nation and not of the King, could have been only a survival, and in William's
day even the survival passed away.  The land which was practically the land of King Edward
became, as a matter of course, Terra Regis, the land of King William.  That land was now enlarged
by greater confiscations and lessened by greater grants than ever. For a moment, every lay
estate had been part of the land of William.  And far more than had been the land of the nation
remained the land of the King, to be dealt with as he thought good.

In the tenure of land William seems to have made no formal change. But the circumstances of
his reign gave increased strength to certain tendencies which had been long afloat.  And out
of them, in the next reign, the malignant genius of Randolf Flambard devised a systematic code
of oppression.  Yet even in his work there is little of formal change.  There are no laws of
William Rufus.  The so called feudal incidents, the claims of marriage, wardship, and the like,
on the part of the lord, the ancient heriot developed into the later relief, all these things
were in the germ under William, as they had been in the germ long before him.  In the hands
of Randolf Flambard they stiffen into established custom; their legal acknowledgement comes
from the charter of Henry the First which promises to reform their abuses.  Thus the Conqueror
clearly claimed the right to interfere with the marriages of his nobles, at any rate to forbid
a marriage to which he objected on grounds of policy.  Under Randolf Flambard this became a
regular claim, which of course was made a means of extorting money.  Under Henry the claim
is regulated and modified, but by being regulated and modified, it is legally established.

The ordinary administration of the kingdom went on under William, greatly modified by the circumstances
of his reign, but hardly at all changed in outward form.  Like the kings that were before him,
he "wore his crown" at the three great feasts, at Easter at Winchester, at Pentecost at Westminster,
at Christmas at Gloucester.  Like the kings that were before him, he gathered together the
great men of the realm, and when need was, the small men also.  Nothing seems to have been
changed in the constitution or the powers of the assembly; but its spirit must have been utterly
changed.  The innermost circle, earls, bishops, great officers of state and household, gradually
changed from a body of Englishmen with a few strangers among them into a body of strangers
among whom two or three Englishmen still kept their places.  The result of their "deep speech"
with William was not likely to be other than an assent to William's will.  The ordinary freeman
did not lose his abstract right to come and shout "Yea, yea," to any addition that King William
made to the law of King Edward.  But there would be nothing to tempt him to come, unless King
William thought fit to bid him.  But once at least William did gather together, if not every
freeman, at least all freeholders of the smallest account.  On one point the Conqueror had
fully made up his mind; on one point he was to be a benefactor to his kingdom through all succeeding
ages.  The realm of England was to be one and indivisible.  No ruler or subject in the kingdom
of England should again dream that that kingdom could be split asunder.  When he offered Harold
the underkingship of the realm or of some part of it, he did so doubtless only in the full
conviction that the offer would be refused.  No such offer should be heard of again.  There
should be no such division as had been between Cnut and Edmund, between Harthacnut and the
first Harold, such as Edwin and Morkere had dreamed of in later times.  Nor should the kingdom
be split asunder in that subtler way which William of all men best understood, the way in which
the Frankish kingdoms, East and West, had split asunder.  He would have no dukes or earls who
might become kings in all but name, each in his own duchy or earldom.  No man in his realm
should be to him as he was to his overlord at Paris.  No man in his realm should plead duty
towards an immediate lord as an excuse for breach of duty towards the lord of that immediate
lord.  Hence William's policy with regard to earldoms. There was to be nothing like the great
governments which had been held by Godwine, Leofric, and Siward; an Earl of the West-Saxons
or the Northumbrians was too like a Duke of the Normans to be endured by one who was Duke of
the Normans himself.  The earl, even of the king's appointment, still represented the separate
being of the district over which he was set.  He was the king's representative rather than
merely his officer; if he was a magistrate and not a prince, he often sat in the seat of former
princes, and might easily grow into a prince. Turton's history in after life I will not pursue;
but must express my regret that he threw away golden opportunities of showing his love for
classic lore, and his ability to meet the difficulties of life, in the same bold way in which
he swam the Thames and baffled the Windsor gamekeepers.

GEORGE SMYTHE, THE LATE LORD STRANGFORD This is another friend to
whom I am pleased to pay the tribute of a reminiscence, and who, if
he was not as well known as most of those I have spoken of, was yet
highly prized by many of the most distinguished persons, and formed
one of a circle that had great influence in England.

Being the son of the well-known Lord Strangford, the translator of Camoens, he had a first
place in aristocratic society, and had he not given himself up to indulgences and amusements,
might have reached the rank of statesman. The late Lord Strangford was distinguished by those external
qualifications which are everywhere acceptable; his manners were polished and easy, his conversation
elegant and witty, and these, added to great personal attractions, gave him a charm which was
generally felt. Disraeli, Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton, and the leading men of the day, were his associates.
When Lord Aberdeen became Minister for Foreign Affairs he selected George Smythe as under secretary;
in which capacity he acquitted himself with great ability. He could not, however, act under Lord Palmerston,
and rather than do so gave up his position. He did not long survive, but died very young; just
as he was beginning to learn the value of his rare abilities, and had ascertained how best
they might have been of use to his country. THE HONOURABLE GEORGE TALBOT I have a very vivid
recollection of George Talbot, a brother of the late Earl of Shrewsbury, and who was a fashionable
man about town, of whom there are many anecdotes in circulation. The only one that took my fancy
was related to me in Paris, where he was as usual in the midst of
the gayest of the gay, recklessly spending his money, and oftentimes
resorting for resources to the gambling-table, where at last he was
thoroughly pigeoned.

Talbot had tried in vain all the usual means of recruiting his empty
purse.

Being a Roman Catholic, like most of the members of one of the oldest families in Great Britain,
he was a regular attendant upon the ceremonies of his Church, and acquainted with all the clergy
in Paris; so he took the resolution of going to his confessor, unburdening his conscience, and
at the same time seeking counsel from the holy father, as to the best way of raising the wind.
After entering minutely into his condition, and asking the priest
how he could find funds to pay his debts and take him home, the confessor
seemed touched by his tale of woe, and after much apparent consideration
recommended him to trust in Providence.

Talbot seemed struck with such sensible advice, and promised to call again in a few days. This second
visit was made in due course; he again mourned over his condition, and requested the priest's advice
and assistance. His story was listened to as before, with much commiseration, but he was again
recommended to trust in Providence. Talbot came away quite crest-fallen, and evidently with little
hope of any immediate relief. After the lapse of a few days, however, he appeared again before
his confessor, apparently much elated, and invited the worthy abbe to dine with him at the
Rocher du Cancale. This invitation was gladly accepted, the holy father not doubting but that he
should have all the delicacies in the land, to which, in common with the rest of the clergy,
he had no objection; nor was he disappointed. The dinner was recherche; the best the establishment
could furnish was placed before them, and most heartily and lovingly did the worthy abbe devote
himself to what was offered. At the end of the repast the carte a payer was duly furnished;
but what was the astonishment of the reverend guest when Talbot declared that his purse was
completely au sec, and that it had been a long time empty; but that upon this occasion, as upon all others,
he trusted, as the abbe had advised him, in Providence. The Abbe Pecheron, recovering from
his surprise, and being of a kind and generous disposition, laughed heartily at Talbot's impudence,
and feeling that he had deserved this rebuke pulled out his purse, paid for the dinner, and did what he
should have done at first-- wrote to the members of Talbot's family, and obtained for him such assistance
as enabled him to quit Paris and return home, where he afterwards led a more sober life. I there
met, to my great delight, Lord Byron and Sir Walter Scott; and amongst the rest of the company
were Lord Caledon, and Croker, the Secretary to the Admiralty. Sir James had been private secretary
to Pitt at the time of the French Revolution, and had a fund of curious anecdotes about everything
and everybody of note at the end of the last century. I remember his telling us the now generally
received story of Pitt dictating a King's speech off-hand-- then a more difficult task than at
the present day-- without the slightest hesitation; this speech being adopted by his colleagues nearly
word for word as it was written down. Walter Scott was quite delightful, appearing full of fire
and animation, and told some interesting anecdotes connected with his early life in Scotland. I remember
his proving himself, what would have been called in the olden times he delighted to portray, "a stout
trencher-man." Nor were his attentions confined by any means to the eatables; on the contrary,
he showed himself worthy to have made a third in the famous carousal in Ivanhoe, between the Black
Knight and the Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst. Byron, whom I had before seen at the shooting galleries
and elsewhere, was then a very handsome man, with remarkably fine eyes and hair; but was, as usual,
all show-off and affectation. I recollect his saying that he disliked seeing women eat, or to have their
company at dinner, from a wish to believe, if possible, in their
more ethereal nature; but he was rallied into avowing that his chief
dislike to their presence at the festive board arose from the fact
of their being helped first, and consequently getting all the wings
of the chickens, whilst men had to be content with the legs or other
parts.

Byron, on this occasion, was in great good humour, and full of boyish and even boisterous mirth. Croker
was also agreeable, notwithstanding his bitter and sarcastic remarks upon everything and
everybody. The sneering, ill-natured expression of his face, struck me as an impressive contrast
to the frank and benevolent countenance of Walter Scott. I never assisted at a more agreeable
dinner. According to the custom of the day, we sat late; the poets, statesmen, and soldiers,
all drank an immense quantity of wine, and I for one felt the effects
of it next day.

Walter Scott gave one or two recitations, in a very animated manner, from
the ballads that he had been collecting, which delighted his auditory;
and both Lord Byron and Croker added to the hilarity of the evening
by quotations from, and criticisms on the more prominent writers of
the period.

LORD BYRON I knew very little of Lord Byron personally, but lived much with two of his intimate
friends, Scrope Davis and Wedderburn Webster; from whom I frequently heard many anecdotes of him. I
regret that I remember so few; and wish that I had written down those told me by poor Scrope Davis,
one of the most agreeable men I ever met. When Byron was at Cambridge, he was introduced to Scrope
Davis by their mutual friend, Matthews, who was afterwards drowned in the river Cam. After Matthews's
death, Davis became Byron's particular friend, and was admitted to
his rooms at all hours.

Upon one occasion he found the poet in bed with his hair en papillote, upon which Scrope cried,
"Ha, ha! Byron, I have at last caught you acting the part of the Sleeping Beauty." Byron, in a rage,
exclaimed, "No, Scrope; the part of a d---- d fool, you should have
said."

"Well, then, anything you please; but you have succeeded admirably in deceiving your friends, for it was
my conviction that your hair curled naturally." "Yes, naturally, every night," returned the poet;
"but do not, my dear Scrope, let the cat out of the bag, for I am as vain of my curls as a girl of
sixteen." When in London, Byron used to go to Manton's shooting-gallery, in Davis street, to try
his hand, as he said, at a wafer. Wedderburn Webster was present
when the poet, intensely delighted with his own skill, boasted to
Joe Manton that he considered himself the best shot in London.

"No, my lord," replied Manton, "not the best; but your shooting,
to-day, was respectable;" upon which Byron waxed wroth, and left the
shop in a violent passion.

Lords Byron, Yarmouth, Pollington, Mountjoy, Walliscourt, Blandford, Captain Burges, Jack Bouverie,
and myself, were in 1814, and for several years afterwards, amongst the chief and most constant
frequenters of this well-known shooting-gallery, and frequently shot at the wafer for considerable
sums of money.

Manton was allowed to enter the betting list, and he generally backed me. On one occasion, I hit
the wafer nineteen times out of twenty. Byron lived a great deal at Brighton, his house being opposite
the Pavilion. He was fond of boating, and was generally accompanied by a lad, who was said
to be a girl in boy's clothes. This report was confirmed to me by Webster, who was then living
at Brighton.

The vivid description of the page in Lara, no doubt, gave some plausibility
to this often-told tale.

I myself
witnessed the dexterous manner in which Byron used to get into his boat; for, while standing
on the beach, I once saw him vault into it with the agility of a
harlequin, in spite of his lame foot.

On one occasion, whilst his lordship was dining with a few of his friends in Charles Street,
Pall Mall, a letter was delivered to Scrope Davis, which required
an immediate answer.

Scrope, after reading its contents, handed it to Lord Byron. It was thus worded:-- "MY DEAR SCROPE,--
Lend me 500£. for a few days; the funds are shut for the dividends, or I would not have made
this request." G. BRUMMELL. "The reply was:--" My DEAR BRUMMELL,-- All my money is locked up
in the funds. "SCROPE DAVIS." This was just before Brummell's escape to the Continent. During one
of Henry Hobhouse's visits to Byron, at his villa near Genoa, and
whilst they were walking in the garden, his lordship suddenly turned
upon his guest, and, apropos of nothing, exclaimed, "Now, I know,
Hobhouse, you are looking at my foot."

Upon which Hobhouse kindly replied, "My dear Byron, nobody thinks of or looks at anything but your
head." SHELLEY Shelley, the poet, cut off at so early an age; just
when his great poetical talents had been matured by study and reflection, and
when he probably would have produced some great work, was my friend
and associate at Eton.

He was a boy of studious and meditative habits, averse to all games and sports, and a great reader
of novels and romances.

He was a thin, slight lad, with remarkably lustrous eyes, fine hair, and a very peculiar shrill voice
and laugh. His most intimate friend at Eton was a boy named Price, who was considered one of the best
classical scholars amongst us. At his tutor, Bethell's, where he lodged, he attempted many mechanical
and scientific experiments. By the aid of a common tinker, he contrived to make something like a
steam-engine, which, unfortunately, one day suddenly exploded; to the great consternation of the neighbourhood
and to the imminent danger of a severe flogging from Dr. Reate.

Soon after leaving school, and about the year 1810, he came, in a state of great distress and
difficulty, to Swansea, when we had an opportunity of rendering him a service; but we never could
ascertain what had brought him to Wales, though we had reason to
suppose it was some mysterious affaire du coeur.

The last time I saw Shelley was at Genoa, in 1822, sitting on the sea-shore, and, when I came upon
him, making a true poet's meal of bread and fruit; He at once recognized
me, jumped up, and appearing greatly delighted, exclaimed, "Here you
see me at my old Eton habits; but instead of the green fields for
a couch, I have here the shores of the Mediterranean.

It is very grand, and very romantic.

I only wish I had some of the excellent brown bread and butter we
used to get at Spiers's: but I was never very fastidious in my diet."

Then he continued, in a wild and eccentric manner: "Gronow, do you
remember the beautiful Martha, the Hebe of Spiers's? She was the loveliest
girl I ever saw, and I loved her to distraction."

Shelley was looking careworn and ill; and, as usual, was very carelessly
dressed.

He had on a large and wide straw hat, his long brown hair, already
streaked with grey, flowing in large masses from under it, and presented
a wild and strange appearance.

During the time I sat by his side he asked many questions about myself and many of our schoolfellows;
but on my questioning him in turn about himself, his way of life, and his future plans, he avoided
entering into any explanation: indeed, he gave such short and evasive answers, that, thinking
my inquisitiveness displeased him, I rose to take my leave.

I observed that I had not been lucky enough to see Lord Byron in
any of my rambles, to which he replied, "Byron is living at his villa,
surrounded by his court of sycophants; but I shall shortly see him
at Leghorn."

We then shook hands. I never saw him again; for he was drowned shortly afterwards, with his friend,
Captain Williams, and his body was washed ashore near Via Reggio. Every one is familiar with the
romantic scene which took place on the sea-shore when the remains of my poor friend and Captain
Williams were burnt, in the presence of Byron and Trelawney, in the Roman fashion. His ashes
were gathered into an urn, and buried in the Protestant cemetery at Rome. He was but twenty-nine
years of age at his death. ROBERT SOUTHEY, THE POET In the year 1803, my father received a letter
of introduction from Mr. Rees, of the well-known firm of Longman, Paternoster Row, presenting Robert Southey,
the poet, to him. He came into Wales with the hope of finding a cottage
to reside in. Accordingly, a cavalcade was formed, consisting of Mr.
W. Gwynne, the two brothers Southey, my father, and myself, and we rode
up the Valley of Neath to look at a cottage about eight miles from
the town.

The poet, delighted with the scenery and situation, decided upon taking it; but the owner, unfortunately
for the honour of Welshmen, actually declined to let it to Robert Southey, fearing that a poet
could not find security for the small annual rent of twenty-five pounds. This circumstance led the
man of letters, who eventually became one of the most distinguished
men of his day, to seek a home elsewhere, and the Lakes were at length
chosen as his residence.

Probably the picturesque beauties of Cumberland compensated the Laureate for the indignity put
upon him by the Welshman. An act of Vandalism perpetrated in the same Vale of Neath, and reflecting
no honour on my countrymen, deserves here to be noted with reprobation. A natural cascade, called
Dyllais, which was so beautiful as to excite the admiration of travellers, was destroyed by an
agent to Lord Jersey, the proprietor of the estate, in order to build a few cottages and the
lock of a canal. The rock down which this beautiful cascade had flowed from the time of the Flood, and which
had created a scene of beauty universally admired, was blown up with
gunpowder by this man, who could probably appreciate no more beautiful
sight than that which presents itself from a window in Gray's or
Lincoln's Inn, of which he was a member.

CAPTAIN HESSE, FORMERLY OF THE 18TH HUSSARS One of my most intimate friends was the late Captain
Hesse, generally believed to be a son of the Duke of York, by a German lady of rank. Though it is not
my intention to disclose certain family secrets of which I am in
possession, I may, nevertheless, record some circumstances connected
with the life of my friend, which were familiar to a large circle
with whom I mixed.

Hesse, in early youth, lived with the Duke and Duchess of York; he was treated in such a manner by them
as to indicate an interest in him by their Royal Highnesses which could scarcely be attributed
to ordinary regard, and was gazetted a cornet in the 18th Hussars at seventeen years of age.
Shortly afterwards, he went to Spain, and was present in all the battles in which his regiment was engaged;
receiving a severe wound in the wrist at the battle of Vittoria. When this became known in England,
a royal lady wrote to Lord Wellington, requesting that he might be carefully attended to; and,
at the same time, a watch, with her portrait, was forwarded, which was delivered to the wounded
Hussar by Lord Wellington himself. When he had sufficiently recovered, Hesse returned to England,
and passed much of his time at Oatlands, the residence of the Duchess of York; he was also honoured
with the confidence of the Princess Charlotte and her mother, Queen Caroline. Many delicate and important
transactions were conducted through the medium of Captain Hesse; in fact, it was perfectly well known
that he played a striking part in many scenes of domestic life which
I do not wish to reveal.

I may, however, observe that the Prince Regent sent the late Admiral
Lord Keith to Hesse's lodgings, who demanded, in his Royal Highness's
name, the restitution of the watch and letters which had been sent
him when in Spain.

After a considerable amount of hesitation, the Admiral obtained what
he wanted the following day; whereupon Lord Keith assured him that the Prince
Regent would never forget so great a mark of confidence, and that
the heir to the throne would ever afterwards be his friend.

I regret to say, from personal knowledge, that, upon this occasion the Prince behaved most ungratefully
and unfeelingly; for, after having obtained all he wanted, he positively refused to receive Hesse
at Carlton House. Hesse's life was full of singular incidents. He was a great friend of the Queen of
Naples, grandmother of the ex-Sovereign of the Two Sicilies; in fact, so notorious was that
liaison, that Hesse was eventually expelled from Naples under an escort of gendarmes. He was
engaged in several affairs of honour, in which he always displayed the utmost courage; and his
romantic career terminated by his being killed in a duel by Count L--,
natural son of the first Napoleon. He died as he had lived, beloved by
his friends, and leaving behind him little but his name and the kind
thoughts of those who survived him.

VISITING IN THE COUNTRY When I returned to London from Paris, in 1815, upon promotion, I was accompanied
by Colonel Brooke, who was good enough to invite me to pass some
time at his brother's, Sir R. Brookes, in Cheshire, upon the occasion
of the christening of his eldest son.

The fete was truly magnificent, and worthy of our excellent host; and all the great people of the neighbouring
counties were present. Soon afterwards I went to the Hale, a country house near Liverpool,
belonging to Mr. Blackburn, one of the oldest members of the House of Commons, where many persons,
who had been at Sir Richard Brookes's, met again. Mr. Blackburn was
extremely absent and otherwise odd: upon one occasion I gave him
a letter to frank, which he deliberately opened and read in my presence;
and on my asking him if it amused him, he replied that he did not
understand what it meant.

Upon another occasion the Duke of Gloucester, accompanied by Mr. Blackburn, went out to shoot
pheasants in the preserves near the Hale; when all of a sudden, Mr. B. observing that the Duke's
gun was cocked, asked his Royal Highness whether he always carried his gun cocked. "Yes, Blackburn,
always," was the reply.

"Well then, good morning, your Royal Highness; I will no longer accompany
you."

At dinner Mr. Blackburn was very eccentric: he would never surrender his place at table even to royalty;
so the Duke was obliged to sit near him. Whenever the royal servant filled the Duke's glass
with wine and water, Mr. B. invariably drank it off; until at length, the Duke asked his servant for
more wine and water, and anticipating a repetition of the farce that had so often been played, drank
it off, and said, "Well, Blackburn, I have done you at last." After dinner the Duke and the
men went to join the ladies in the drawing-room, where the servant in royal livery was waiting,
holding a tray upon which was a cup of tea for the Duke. Mr. Blackburn, observing the servant
in waiting, and that nobody took the cup of tea, determined on drinking it; but the domestic retired
a little, to endeavour to prevent it. Mr. Blackburn, however, followed and persisted; Upon which
the servant said, "Sir, it is for his Royal Highness." "D---- his Royal
Highness, I will have this tea." The Duke exclaimed, "That's right, Blackburn,"
and ordered the servant to hand it to him. LORD ALLEN AND COUNT D'ORSAY
Lord Allen being rather the worse for drinking too much wine at dinner,
teased Count D'Orsay, and said some very disagreeable things, which
irritated him; when suddenly John Bush entered the club and shook
hands with the Count, who exclaimed, "Voila, la difference entre une
bonne bouche et une mauvaise haleine."

The following bon mot was also attributed to the Count: General Ornano, observing a certain
nobleman-- who, by some misfortune in his youth, lost the use of his legs-- in a Bath chair, which
he wheeled about, and inquiring the name of the English peer, D'Orsay
answered, "Pere la Chaise."

The Count had many disciples among our men of fashion, but none of them succeeded in copying
the original. His death produced, both in London and in Paris, a deep and universal regret. The
Count's life has been so well delineated in the public prints, that nothing I could say would
add to the praise that has been bestowed upon him. Perfectly natural in manners and language,
highly accomplished, and never betraying the slightest affectation or pretension, he had formed
friendships with some of the noblest and most accomplished men in England. He was also a great favourite
in Paris, where he had begun to exercise his talent as an artist, when death prematurely removed
him from society. Mr. PHELPS Mr. Phelps, a chorus singer, and an excellent musician, with
good looks and address, contrived to ingratiate himself with the Marchioness of Antrim, and was
fortunate enough to marry her ladyship, by whose means he was created
a baronet, and allied to some of our most aristocratic families.

THE LATE
LORD BLOOMFIELD The late Lord Bloomfield likewise owed his elevation to the Peerage to his musical
talents. When the Prince of Wales was living at the Pavilion at Brighton, he wanted some one who could accompany
him on the violoncello, and having ascertained that Captain Bloomfield, of the Royal Artillery, who
was then at Brighton with his troop, was an accomplished violoncello player, the captain was accordingly
summoned to appear before the Prince, at the Pavilion. From that night commenced an intimacy which
for many years existed between the Prince and Captain Bloomfield; who for a considerable length of
time was well known in fashionable circles under the title of Sir
Benjamin Bloomfield.

A court intrigue, headed by a fascinating marchioness, caused him
to be sent into splendid exile: this lady attributing to Sir Benjamin
Bloomfield her being compelled to send back some jewels which had
been presented to her by the Prince Regent; but which, it was discovered,
belonged to the Crown, and could not be alienated.

Sir Benjamin was created a Peer, and sent to Stockholm as ambassador, where his affable manners and
his unostentatious hospitality rendered him exceedingly popular; and he became as great a favorite
with Bernadotte as he had been with the Prince Regent. The name of Bloomfield is at this day respected
in Sweden.

THE
RIGHT HON. GEORGE CANNING When Mr. Canning retired from Portugal, he was received at Paris with a distinction
and a deference perhaps never before bestowed on a foreign diplomatist; he dined with Charles X. almost
tete-a-tete, and was scrambled for by the leading aristocracy of
France.  Hereward, said to have been the nephew of Turold's English predecessor,
doubtless looked on the holy place, under a Norman abbot, as part of the enemy's country.

The name of Hereward has gathered round it such a mass of fiction, old and new, that it is
hard to disentangle the few details of his real history.  His descent and birth-place are uncertain;
but he was assuredly a man of Lincolnshire, and assuredly not the son of Earl Leofric.  For
some unknown cause, he had been banished in the days of Edward or of Harold.  He now came back
to lead his countrymen against William.  He was the soul of the movement of which the abbey
of Ely became the centre.  The isle, then easily defensible, was the last English ground on
which the Conqueror was defied by Englishmen fighting for England.  The men of the Fenland
were zealous; the monks of Ely were zealous; helpers came in from other parts of England. 
English leaders left their shelter in Scotland to share the dangers of their countrymen; even
Edwin and Morkere at last plucked up heart to leave William's court and join the patriotic
movement.  Edwin was pursued; he was betrayed by traitors; he was overtaken and slain, to William's
deep grief, we are told.  His brother reached the isle, and helped in its defence. William
now felt that the revolt called for his own presence and his full energies.  The isle was stoutly
attacked and stoutly defended, till, according to one version, the monks betrayed the stronghold
to the King.  According to another, Morkere was induced to surrender by promises of mercy which
William failed to fulfil. In any case, before the year 1071 was ended, the isle of Ely was
in William's hands.  Hereward alone with a few companions made their way out by sea.  William
was less merciful than usual; still no man was put to death.  Some were mutilated, some imprisoned;
Morkere and other chief men spent the rest of their days in bonds.  The temper of the Conqueror
had now fearfully hardened.  Still he could honour a valiant enemy; those who resisted to the
last fared best. All the legends of Hereward's later days speak of him as admitted to William's
peace and favour.  One makes him die quietly, another kills him at the hands of Norman enemies,
but not at William's bidding or with William's knowledge.  Evidence a little better suggests
that he bore arms for his new sovereign beyond the sea; and an entry in Domesday also suggests
that he held lands under Count Robert of Mortain in Warwickshire.  It would suit William's
policy, when he received Hereward to his favour, to make him exchange lands near to the scene
of his exploits for lands in a distant shire held under the lordship of the King's brother.

Meanwhile, most likely in the summer months of 1070, Malcolm ravaged Cleveland, Durham, and
other districts where there must have been little left to ravage.  Meanwhile the AEtheling
Edgar and his sisters, with other English exiles, sought shelter in Scotland, and were hospitably
received.  At the same time Gospatric, now William's earl in Northumberland, retaliated by
a harrying of Scottish Cumberland, which provoked Malcolm to greater cruelties. It was said
that there was no house in Scotland so poor that it had not an English bondman.  Presently
some of Malcolm's English guests joined the defenders of Ely; those of highest birth stayed
in Scotland, and Malcolm, after much striving, persuaded Margaret the sister of Edgar to become
his wife.  Her praises are written in Scottish history, and the marriage had no small share
in the process which made the Scottish kings and the lands which formed their real kingdom
practically English.  The sons and grandsons of Margaret, sprung of the Old-English kingly
house, were far more English within their own realm than the Norman and Angevin kings of Southern
England.  But within the English border men looked at things with other eyes.  Thrice again
did Malcolm ravage England; two and twenty years later he was slain in his last visit of havoc.
William meanwhile and his earls at least drew to themselves some measure of loyalty from the
men of Northern England as the guardians of the land against the Scot.

For the present however Malcolm's invasion was only avenged by Gospatric's harrying in Cumberland.
The year 1071 called William to Ely; in the early part of 1072 his presence was still needed
on the mainland; in August he found leisure for a march against Scotland.  He went as an English
king, to assert the rights of the English crown, to avenge wrongs done to the English land;
and on such an errand Englishmen followed him gladly. A first sensation at my age is delightful.

"Next
day Rhoda and I were sitting with Mrs. Rayne in her dressing-room, with a great fan swinging
overhead. We all had books in our hands, but I found more charming reading in my hostess, whose
fascinations hourly grew upon me.

She wore a long loose wrapper, clear blue in color, with little silver stars on it. I don't know how
much of my admiration sprang from her perfect taste in dress. Raiment has an extraordinary
effect on the whole machinery of life. Most people think too lightly of it. Somebody says if
Cleopatra's nose had been a quarter of an inch shorter, the history
of the world would have been utterly changed; but Antony might equally
have been proof against a robe with high neck and tight sleeves.

Mrs. Rayne's face always seemed to crown her costume like a rose out of green leaves, yet
I cannot but think that if I had seen her first in a calico gown and sitting on a three-legged
stool milking a cow, I should still have thought her a queen among
women.

While I sat like a lotos-eater, forgetful of home and butter-making, a servant brought in a parcel
and a note. Mrs. Rayne tossed the note to me while she unfolded a
roll of gray silk.

Dear Guinevere: I send with this a bit of silk that old Fut'ali insisted on giving to me this
morning. It is that horrid gray color which we both detest. I know you will never wear it, and
you had better give it to Miss Blake to make a toga for her first appearance in the women's
Senate. LANCELOT."

With all my heart! "said Mrs. Rayne as I gave back the note." You will please us both far more
than you can please yourself by wearing the dress with a thought of us. I wonder why Mr. Rayne
calls me'Guinevere'? But he has a new name for me every day, because
he does not like my own.

"" What
is it?

"" Waitstill. Did you ever hear it?

"" Never but once, "I said with a sudden tightness in my throat. I could scarcely speak my thanks for
the dress."

I should never wear it, "said Mrs. Rayne:" the color is associated with a very painful part
of my life.

"" Do you suppose water would spot it? "asked Rhoda, who is of a
practical turn of mind."

Take a bit and try it.

"" Water spots some grays "said Mrs. Rayne with a strange sort of smile as Rhoda went out," especially
salt water. I spent one night at sea in an open boat, with a gray dress clinging wet and salt
to my limbs. When I tore it off in rags I seemed to shed all the misery I had ever known. All my
life since then has been bright as you see it now. It would be a bad omen to put on a gray
gown again.

"" Then you have made a sea-voyage, Mrs. Rayne?

"" Yes, such a long voyage!-- worse than the'Ancient Mariner's.'No words can tell how I hate the
sea. "She sighed deeply, with a sudden darkening of her gray eyes till they were almost black,
and grasped one wrist hard with the other hand.

A sudden trembling seized me. I was almost as much agitated as Mrs. Rayne. I felt that I must
clinch the matter somehow, but I took refuge in a platitude to gain time:" There is such a difference
in ships, almost as much as in houses, and the comfort of the voyage
depends greatly on that.

"" It may be so, "she said wearily."

My brother's ship is old, but it has been refitted lately to something like comfort. It's old
name was the Sapphire.

"This was my shot, and it hit hard."

The Sapphire! the Sapphire! "she whispered with dilated eyes."

Did you ever hear-- did you ever find-- But what nonsense! You must think me the absurdest of
women.

"The color came back to her face, and she laughed quite naturally."

The fact is, Miss Blake, I was very ill and miserable when I was on shipboard, and to this day
any sudden reminder of it gives me a shock.-- Did water spot it? "she said to Rhoda, who came
in at this point.

I thought over all the threads of the circumstance that had come into my hand, and like Mr.
Browning's lover I found" a thing to do.

"The next morning I made an excuse to go down to the ship with my brother, and there, by dint of
pressure, I got those stained and dingy papers into my possession again. I had only that day before
me, for we were going to a hotel the same evening, and the Raynes were to set out next day
for their summer place among the hills, a long way back of Bombay.

Our stay had already delayed their departure.

This was my plot: Mrs. Rayne had been reading a book that I had bought for the home-voyage, and
was to finish it before evening. I selected the duplicate of the paper which" Waitstill Atwood
Eliot "had put in a bottle and cast adrift when her case had been desperate, and laid it in the
book a page or two beyond Mrs. Rayne's mark. It seemed impossible that she could miss it:
I watched her as a chemist watches his first experiment.

Twice she took up the book, and was interrupted before she could open it: the third time she
sat down so close to me that the folds of her dress touched mine. One page, two pages: in
another instant she would have turned the leaf, and I held my breath, when a servant brought in
a note. Her most intimate friend had been thrown from her carriage, and had sent for her. It
was a matter of life and death, and brooked no delay. In ten minutes she had bidden us a cordial
good-bye, and dropped out of my life for all time.

She never finished my book, nor I hers. I had had it in my heart, in return for her warm hospitality,
to cast a great stone out of her past life into the still waters of her present, and her good
angel had turned it aside just before it reached her. I might have asked Mr. Rayne in so many words
if his wife's name had been Waitstill Atwood Eliot when he married her, but that would have savored
of treachery to her, and I refrained.

Often in the long calm days of the home-voyage, and oftener still
in the night-watches, I pondered in my heart the items of Mrs. Rayne's
history, and pieced them together like bits of mosaic-- the gray eyes
and the gray dress, the identity of name, the indefinite terrors of
her sea-voyage, the little touch concerning Lancelot and Guinevere,
her emotion when I mentioned the Sapphire.

If circumstantial evidence can be trusted, I feel certain that Pedro's ghost appeared to me in
the flesh.

ELLA WILLIAMS THOMPSON.

REMINISCENCES OF FLORENCE.

I had six months more to stay on the Continent, and I began for the first time to be discontented
in Paris. There was no soul in that great city whom I had ever seen before, but this alone
would hot have been sufficient to make me long for a change, except for an accident which unluckily
surrounded me with my own countrymen. These I did not go abroad to see; and having lived almost
entirely in the society of the French for over two years, it was with dismay that I saw my
sanctum invaded daily by twos and threes of the aimless American nonentities who presume that
their presence must be agreeable to any of their countrymen, and especially to any countrywoman,
after a chance introduction on the boulevard or an hour spent together
in a café."

Seeing these things, "I determined to leave Paris, and the third day after found me traveling
through picturesque Savoy toward Mont Cenis. All the afternoon the rugged hills had been growing
higher and whiter with snow, and now, just before sunset, we reached the railway terminus, St. Michel,
and were under the shadow of the Alps themselves.

The previous night in the cars I had found myself the only woman among some half dozen French
military officers, who paid me the most polite attention. They were charmed that I made no
objection to their cigarettes, talked with me on various topics, criticised McClellan as a general,
and were enthusiastic on the subject of our country generally. About midnight they prepared a grand
repast from their traveling-bags, to which they gave me a cordial invitation. I begged to contribute
my mesquin supply of grapes and brioches, and the supper was a considerable
event.

Their canteens were filled with red wines, and one cup served the whole company. They drank my
health and that of the President of the United States. Afterward we had vocal music, two of the officers
being good singers. They sang Beranger's songs and the charming serenade from Lalla Rookh. I
finally expressed a desire to hear the Marseillaise. The law forbade, they said, the production
of the Marseillaise in society. We were a society: the guard would hear us and might report
it."

Vous voyez, madame, "said the singer," n'il n'est pas défendu d'être voleur, mais c'est défendu
d'être attrapé "(It is not against the law to be a thief, but to
be caught.) My traveling-- companions reached their destination early
in the morning, and, very gallantly expressing regrets that they were
not going over the Alps, so as to bear mer company, bade me farewell.

From the rear of the St. Michel hotel, called the Lion d'Or, I watched the preparations for
crossing Mont Cenis. Three diligences were being crazily loaded with our baggage. The men
who loaded them seemed imitating the Alpine structure.

They piled trunk on trunk to the height of thirty feet, I verily believe; and if some one should nudge
my elbow and say" fifty, "I should write it down so without manifesting the least surprise.
When the preparations were finished the setting sun was shining clearly on the white summits
above, and we commenced slowly winding up the noble zigzag road. Rude mountain children kept
up with our diligences, asked for sous and wished us bon voyage in
the name of the Virgin.

The grandeur, but especially the extent and number, of the Alpine peaks impressed me with a
vague, undefinable sense, which was not, I think, the anticipated sensation; and indeed if I
had been in a poetic mood, it would have been quickly dissipated
by the mock raptures of a young Englishman with a poodly moustache
and an eye-glass.

He
called our attention to every chasm, gorge and waterfall, as if we
had been wholly incapable of seeing or appreciating anything without
his aid. As for me, I did not feel like disputing his susceptibility.
I was suffering an uneasy apprehension of an avalanche-- not of snow,
but of trunks and boxes from the topheavy diligences ahead of us.

However, we reached the top of Mont Cenis safely by means of thirteen mules to each coach, attached
tandem, and we stopped at the queer relay-house there some thirty minutes. Here some women in
the garb of nuns served me some soup with grated cheese, a compound which suggested a dishcloth
in flavor, yet it was very good. I will not attempt to reconcile the two statements. After the soup
I went out to see the Alps. The ecstatic Briton was still eating and drinking, and I could enjoy
the scene unmolested. I crossed a little bridge near the inn. The night was cold and bright. Hundreds
of snowy peaks above, below and in every direction, some of their hoary heads lost in the clouds,
were glistening in the light of a clear September moon, and the stillness was only broken by a
wild stream tumbling down the precipices which I looked up to as I crossed the bridge. It was indeed
an impressive scene-- cold, desolate, awful. I walked so near the freezing cataract that the icicles
touched my face, and thinking that Dante, when he wrote his description
of hell, might have been inspired by this very scene, I wrapped my cloak
closer about me and went back to the inn. The diligences were ready,
and we commenced a descent which I cannot even now think of without
a shudder.

To each of those heavily-laden stages were attached two horses only, and we bounded down the mountain-side
like a huge loosened boulder. Imagine the sensation as you looked out of the windows and saw yourself
whirling over yawning chasms and along the brinks of dizzy precipices, fully convinced that the
driver was drunk and the horses goaded to madness by Alpine demons!

I have been on the ocean in a storm sufficiently severe to make Jew and Christian pray amicably
together; I have been set on fire by a fluid lamp, and have been dragged under the water by a drowning
friend, but I think I never had such an alarming sense of coming destruction as in that diligence.
I think of those sure-footed horses even now with gratitude. We arrived at Susa a long time before daylight.
At first, I decided to stay and see this town, which was founded by
a Roman colony in the time of Augustus.

The arch built in his honor about eight years before Christ seemed a thing worth going to see;
but a remark from my companion with the eye-glass made me determine to go on. He said he was
going to" do "the arch, and I knew I should not be equal to witnessing any more of his ecstasies.
My first astonishment in Italy was that hardly any of the railroad
officials spoke French.

I had always been told that with that language at your command you could travel all over the Continent.
This is a grave error: even in Florence, although" Ici on parle français "is conspicuous in many shop-windows,
I found I had to speak Italian or go unserved. I had a mortal dread of murdering the beautiful Italian
language; so I wanted to speak it well before I commenced, like the Irishman who never could
get his boots on until he had worn them a week.

I stopped at Turin, then the capital of Italy, only a short time, and hurried on to Florence,
for that was to be my home for the winter. It was delightful to come down from the Alpine
snows and find myself face to face with roses and orange trees bearing fruit and blossom. Here I wandered
through the olive-gardens alone, and gave way to the rapturous sense of simply being in the
land of art and romance, the land of love and song; for there was no ecstatic person with me
armed with Murray and prepared to admire anything recommended therein.

Besides, I could enjoy Italy for days and months, and therefore was not obliged to" do "(detestable
tourist slang!) anything in a given time. I was free as a bird. I knew no Americans in Florence,
and determined to studiously avoid making acquaintances except among Italians, for I wished
to learn the language as I had learned French, by constantly speaking it and no other. The day
following my arrival in Florence I went out to look for lodgings, which I had the good fortune
to find immediately. I secured the first I looked at. They were in the Borgo SS. Apostoli,
in close proximity to the Piazza del Granduca, now Delia Signoria. I was passing this square, thinking
of my good luck in finding my niche for the winter, when, much to my surprise, some one accosted me in
English. Think of my dismay at seeing one of the irrepressible Paris bores I had fled from! He was in
Florence before me, having come by a different route; and neither
of us had known anything about the other's intention to quit Paris.

He asked me at once where I was stopping, and I told him at the Hotel a la Fontana, not deeming
it necessary to add that I was then on my way there to pack up my traveling-bag and pay my bill. As
he was" doing "Florence in about three days, he never found me out. The next I heard of him he was" doing
"Rome. This American prided himself on his knowledge of Italian; and one day in a restaurant, wishing
for cauliflower (cavolo fiore), he astonished the waiter by calling for horse." Cavallo "! he roared--"
Portéz me cavallo! "" Cavallo! "repeated the waiter, with the characteristic Italian shrug."
Non simangia in Italia, signore "(It is not eaten in Italy, signore). Then followed more execrable
Italian, and the waiter brought him something which elicited" Non volo! non volo! "(I don't
fly! I don't fly!) from the American, and" Lo credo, signore "from the baffled waiter, much to
the amusement of people at the adjacent tables. I liked my new quarters very much. They consisted
of two goodly-sized rooms, carpeted with thick braided rag carpets, and decently furnished, olive
oil provided for the quaint old classic-shaped lamp, and the rooms kept in order, for the astounding
price of thirty francs a month. Wood I had to pay extra for when
I needed a fire, and that indeed was expensive; for a bundle only
sufficient to make a fire cost a franc. There were few days, however,
even in that exceptional winter, which rendered a fire necessary.
The scaldino for the feet was generally sufficient, and this, replenished
three times a day, was included in the rent. One of my windows looked out
on olive-gardens and on the old church San Miniato, on the hill of
the same name.

Mr. Hart, the sculptor, told me that those rooms were very
familiar to him. Buchanan Read, I think he said, had occupied them, and the
walls in many places bore traces of artist vagaries. There were several
nice caricatures penciled among the cheap frescoes of the walls. All the
walls are frescoed in Florence. Think of having your ceiling and walls
painted in a manner that constantly suggests Michael Angelo! After
some weeks spent in looking at the art-wonders in Florence, I visited
many of the studios of our artists. That of Mr. Hart, on the Piazza
Independenza, was one of the most interesting. He had two very admirable
busts of Henry Clay, and all his visitors, encouraged by his frank
manner, criticised his works freely.

Most people boldly pass judgment on any work
of art, and" understand "Mrs. Browning when she says the Venus de'Medici"
thunders white silence. "I do not. I am sure I never can understand
what a thundering silence means, whatever may be its color. These appreciators
talked of the" word-painting "of Mrs. Browning. I suppose this is"
word-painting. "I can see the picture also-- some kings, and possibly
queens, seated on gorgeous thrones, engaged in the festive occupation
of grinding bones! Oh, I degrade the subject, do I? Nonsense!

The term
is a stilted affectation, perhaps never better applied than to Mrs. Browning's
descriptive spasms. Still, she was undoubtedly a poet. She wrote many
beautiful subjective poems, but she wrote much that was not poetry, and
which suggests only a deranged nervous system. I have a friend who
maintains from her writings that she never loved, that she did not know
what passion meant. However this may be, the author of the sonnet commencing--
Go from me! Yet I feel that I shall stand Henceforward in thy shadow,
deserves immortality. But to return to Mr. Hart's studio. One of the
most remarkable things I saw in Florence was this artist's invention
to reduce certain details of sculpture to a mechanical process.

This
machine at first sight struck me as a queer kind of ancient armor.
In brief, the subject is placed in position, when the front part of
this armor, set on some kind, of hinge, swings round before him, and
the sculptor makes measurements by means of numberless long metal needles,
which are so arranged as to run in and touch the subject: A stationary
mark is placed where the needle touches, and then I think it is pulled
back. So the artist goes on, until some hundreds of measurements are made,
if necessary, when the process is finished and the subject is released.
How these measurements are made to serve the artist in modeling the
statue I cannot very well describe, but I understood that by their
aid Mr. Hart had modeled a bust from life in the incredible space
of two days!

I further understood
that Mr. Hart's portrait-busts are remarkable for their correct likeness,
which of course they must be if they are mathematically correct in
their proportions.

Many of the artists in Florence have the bad taste to make sport
of this machine; but if Mr. Hart's portrait-busts are what they have
the reputation of being, this sport is only a mask for jealousy.

Mr.
Hart is extremely sensitive to the light manner Mr. Powers and others
have of speaking of this invention.  Charges,
both true and false, were brought against William; in a mixed gathering of Normans, English,
and Bretons, almost every act of William's life might pass as a wrong done to some part of
the company, even though some others of the company were his accomplices.  Above all, the two
earls Ralph and Roger made a distinct proposal to their fellow-earl Waltheof. King William
should be driven out of the land; one of the three should be King; the other two should remain
earls, ruling each over a third of the kingdom.  Such a scheme might attract earls, but no
one else; it would undo William's best and greatest work; it would throw back the growing unity
of the kingdom by all the steps that it had taken during several generations.

Now what amount of favour did Waltheof give to these schemes? Weighing the accounts, it would
seem that, in the excitement of the bride-ale, he consented to the treason, but that he thought
better of it the next morning.  He went to Lanfranc, at once regent and ghostly father, and
confessed to him whatever he had to confess. The Primate assigned his penitent some ecclesiastical
penances; the Regent bade the Earl go into Normandy and tell the whole tale to the King.  Waltheof
went, with gifts in hand; he told his story and craved forgiveness.  William made light of
the matter, and kept Waltheof with him, but seemingly not under restraint, till he came back
to England.

Meanwhile the other two earls were in open rebellion.  Ralph, half Breton by birth and earl
of a Danish land, asked help in Britanny and Denmark.  Bretons from Britanny and Bretons settled
in England flocked to him.  King Swegen, now almost at the end of his reign and life, listened
to the call of the rebels, and sent a fleet under the command of his son Cnut, the future saint,
together with an earl named Hakon.  The revolt in England was soon put down, both in East and
West.  The rebel earls met with no support save from those who were under their immediate influence.
The country acted zealously for the King.  Lanfranc could report that Earl Ralph and his army
were fleeing, and that the King's men, French and English, were chasing them.  In another letter
he could add, with some strength of language, that the kingdom was cleansed from the filth
of the Bretons.  At Norwich only the castle was valiantly defended by the newly married Countess
Emma.  Roger was taken prisoner; Ralph fled to Britanny; their followers were punished with
various mutilations, save the defenders of Norwich, who were admitted to terms.  The Countess
joined her husband in Britanny, and in days to come Ralph did something to redeem so many treasons
by dying as an armed pilgrim in the first crusade.

The main point of this story is that the revolt met with no English support whatever.  Not
only did Bishop Wulfstan march along with his fierce Norman brethren Ode and Geoffrey; the
English people everywhere were against the rebels.  For this revolt offered no attraction to
English feeling; had the undertaking been less hopeless, nothing could have been gained by
exchanging the rule of William for that of Ralph or Roger.  It might have been different if
the Danes had played their part better.  The rebellion broke out while William was in Normandy;
it was the sailing of the Danish fleet which brought him back to England.  But never did enterprise
bring less honour on its leaders than this last Danish voyage up the Humber.  All that the
holy Cnut did was to plunder the minster of Saint Peter at York and to sail away.

His coming however seems to have altogether changed the King's feelings with regard to Waltheof.
As yet he had not been dealt with as a prisoner or an enemy.  He now came back to England with
the King, and William's first act was to imprison both Waltheof and Roger.  The imprisonment
of Roger, a rebel taken in arms, was a matter of course.  As for Waltheof, whatever he had
promised at the bride-ale, he had done no disloyal act; he had had no share in the rebellion,
and he had told the King all that he knew.  But he had listened to traitors, and it might be
dangerous to leave him at large when a Danish fleet, led by his old comrade Cnut, was actually
afloat.  Still what followed is strange indeed, specially strange with William as its chief doer.

At the Midwinter Gemot of 1075-1076 Roger and Waltheof were brought to trial.  Ralph was condemned
in absence, like Eustace of Boulogne.  Roger was sentenced to forfeiture and imprisonment for
life.  Waltheof made his defence; his sentence was deferred; he was kept at Winchester in a
straiter imprisonment than before.  At the Pentecostal Gemot of 1076, held at Westminster,
his case was again argued, and he was sentenced to death.  On the last day of May the last
English earl was beheaded on the hills above Winchester.

Such a sentence and execution, strange at any time, is specially strange under William.  Whatever
Waltheof had done, his offence was lighter than that of Roger; yet Waltheof has the heavier
and Roger the lighter punishment.  With Scroggs or Jeffreys on the bench, it might have been
argued that Waltheof's confession to the King did not, in strictness of law, wipe out the guilt
of his original promise to the conspirators; but William the Great did not commonly act after
the fashion of Scroggs and Jeffreys.  To deprive Waltheof of his earldom might doubtless be
prudent; a man who had even listened to traitors might be deemed unfit for such a trust.  It
might be wise to keep him safe under the King's eye, like Edwin, Morkere, and Edgar.  But why
should he be picked out for death, when the far more guilty Roger was allowed to live?  Why
should he be chosen as the one victim of a prince who never before or after, in Normandy or
in England, doomed any man to die on a political charge?  These are questions hard to answer.
It is not enough to say that Waltheof was an Englishman, that it was William's policy gradually
to get rid of Englishmen in high places, and that the time was now come to get rid of the last.
For such a policy forfeiture, or at most imprisonment, would have been enough.  While other
Englishmen lost lands, honours, at most liberty, Waltheof alone lost his life by a judicial
sentence.  It is likely enough that many Normans hungered for the lands and honours of the
one Englishman who still held the highest rank in England.  Still forfeiture without death
might have satisfied even them.  But Waltheof was not only earl of three shires; he was husband
of the King's near kinswoman.  We are told that Judith was the enemy and accuser of her husband.
This may have touched William's one weak point.  Yet he would hardly have swerved from the
practice of his whole life to please the bloody caprice of a niece who longed for the death
of her husband.  And if Judith longed for Waltheof's death, it was not from a wish to supply
his place with another. Legend says that she refused a second husband offered her by the King;
it is certain that she remained a widow.

Waltheof's death must thus remain a mystery, an isolated deed of blood unlike anything else
in William's life.  It seems to have been impolitic; it led to no revolt, but it called forth
a new burst of English feeling.  Waltheof was deemed the martyr of his people; he received
the same popular canonization as more than one English patriot.  Signs and wonders were wrought
at his tomb at Crowland, till displays of miraculous power which were so inconsistent with
loyalty and good order were straitly forbidden. The act itself marks a stage in the downward
course of William's character.  In itself, the harrying of Northumberland, the very invasion
of England, with all the bloodshed that they caused, might be deemed blacker crimes than the
unjust death of a single man. But as human nature stands, the less crime needs a worse man
to do it.  Crime, as ever, led to further crime and was itself the punishment of crime. Besides,
I want to ask you, Mr. Marten, what it means. Everybody is coming to me for lessons. Are you refusing
instruction, or are you growing so unpopular of late? I have vexed myself trying to answer the
question.

"" They all come to you, do they? Yes, I think I am growing unpopular. And I am rather glad
of it, on the whole, "answered Leonhard, not quite clear as to her meaning, but not at all disturbed
by it."

I know they must all have gone to you first, "she said." Of course they all went to you first,
and you wouldn't have them.

"Leonhard smiled on. Her odd talk was pleasant to him, and to look at her bright face was to
forget every disagreeable thing in the world." You know I have been thinking that I would give
up instruction altogether, "said he;" but I suppose that unless I actually go away to get rid
of my pupils, I shall have a few devoted followers to the last. The more you take off my hands the better
I shall like it.

"" But how should everybody know that you think of giving up instruction?
"Miss Marion inquired."

Oh,
I dare say I have told everybody, "he answered carelessly."

Ah! "said she; and two or three thoughts passed through the mind of the young lady quite worthy
the brain of her mother." I am half sorry, "she continued." But at least you cannot forget what
you know. That is a comfort. And I am sure you love music too well to let me go on committing
barbarisms with my hands or voice without telling me.

"Leonhard hesitated. How far might he take this dear girl into his secrets?" My friend Wilberforce
is always saying that I ought to study abroad in the old European towns before I launch out
in earnest, "said he finally."

As architect or musician? "asked the" dear girl.

"" As architect, of course, "he answered, without manifesting surprise at the question." He
is going himself now, and he wants me to go with him.

"" Why don't you go? "The quick look with which he followed this question made Miss Marion add:"
It would be the best thing in the world for-- for a student, I should think. You said once
that your indecision was the bane of your life. I beg your pardon for remembering it. When you
have heard the best music and seen the best architecture, you can put an end to this'thirty
years'war,'and come back and settle down. ""

All very well, "said he," but please to tell me where I shall find
you when I come home.

"" Oh, I shall be jogging along somewhere, depend.

"" With your mind made up concerning every event five years before it happens? If you had
my choice to make, you think, I suppose, that you would decide in
a minute which road to fame and fortune you would choose.

"Mr. Leonhard used his cane as vehemently while he spoke as if he were a conductor swinging
his baton through the most exciting movement."

I don't understand your perplexity, that is the fact, "said she with wonderful candor;" but then
I have been trained to do one thing from the time I could wink.

"" It was expected of me that I should rival the greatest performers, "said Leonhard with a half-sad
smile." If I go abroad now, as you advise-- ""

Advise? I advise!

"" Did you not?

"" Not the least creature moving. Never!

"" If you did you would say,'Keep to music.'""

I should say,'Keep to architecture.'Then-- don't you see?-- I should
have all your pupils.

"" That
would matter little: you have long had all that I could give you
worth the giving, Miss Ayres.

"Were
these words intent on having utterance, and seeking their opportunity?

In the midst of her lightness and seeming unconcern the young lady found herself challenged, as it
were, by the stern voice of a sentinel on guard. But she answered on the instant:" The most
delicious music I have ever heard, for which I owe you endless thanks. I have said architecture;
but I never advise, you know.

"" She has not understood me, "thought Leonhard, but instead of taking advantage of that conclusion and
retiring from the ground, he said," Perhaps I must speak more clearly. I don't care what I
do or where I go, Miss Marion, if you are indifferent. I love you.

"What did he read in the face which his dark eyes scanned as they turned full upon it? Was it"
I love you "? Was it" Alas! "? He could not tell."

You are pledged to love'the True and the Beautiful,'"said she quite
gayly," and so I am not surprised.

"Leonhard
looked mortified and angry. A man of twenty-two declaring love for the first time to a woman
had a right to expect better treatment."

I have offended you, "she said instantly." I only followed out your own train of thought. You
may have half a dozen professions, and-- ""

I am at least clear that I love only you, "he said." I hoped you would feel that. It is certain,
I think, that I shall confine myself to the studies of an architect hereafter. I will give
no more lessons. And shall you care to know whether I go or stay?

"Miss Ayres answered-- almost as if in spite of herself and that good judgment for which she had been
sufficiently praised during her eighteen years of existence--" Yes, I shall care a vast deal.
That is the reason why I say,'Go, if it seems best to you'--'Stay, if you think it more wise.'I
have the confidence in you that sees you can conduct your own affairs.
""

If I go, "he cried in a happy voice, in strong contrast with his words," it will be to leave everything
behind me that can make life sweet.

"" But if you go it will be to gain everything that can make life honorable. I did not understand
that you thought of going for pleasure. "Ah, how almost tender now
her look and tone!"

Say but once to me what I have said to you, "said Leonhard joyfully, confident now that he had
won the great prize."

Now? No: don't talk about it. Wait a while, and we will see if there is anything in it. "What queer
lover's mood was this? Miss Marion looked as if she had passed her fortieth birthday when she spoke
in this wise."

Oh for a soft sweet breeze from the north-east to temper such cruel blasts! "exclaimed Leonhard."
Was ever man so treated as I am by this strong-minded young woman?

"" Everybody on the grounds is looking, and wondering how she will get home with the intemperate
young gentleman she is escorting. Did you say you were going to talk with your friend Mr. Wilberforce
about going abroad with him for a year or two?

"" I said no such thing, but perhaps I may. I was going to write, but it may be as easy to run
down to Philadelphia.

"" Easier, I should say.

"So they talked, and when they parted Leonhard said:" If you do not see me to-morrow evening, you
will know that I have gone to Philadelphia. I shall not write to let you know. You might feel
that an answer was expected of you.

"" I have never been taught the arts of a correspondent, and it is quite too late to learn them,
"she answered.

Miss Marion will probably never again feel as old as she does this afternoon, when she has half
snubbed, half flattered and half accepted the man she admires and loves, but whose one fault
she clearly perceives and is seriously afraid of.

The next day Leonhard sat staring at Wilberforce's letter with a face as wrinkled as a young ape's
in a cold morning fog. After one long serious effort he sprang from his seat, and I am afraid
swore that he would go down to Philadelphia that very afternoon. Therefore (and because he
clung to the determination all day) at six o'clock behold him passing with his satchel from the
steps of the Granby House to the Grand Division Dépôt. He was always going to and fro, so his
departure occasioned no remark.

He supposed, for his own part, that he was going to talk with his friend Wilberforce, and his
ticket ensured his passage to Philadelphia; and yet at eight o'clock he found himself standing
on the steps of the Spenersberg Station, and saw the train move on. At the moment when his will
seemed to him to be completely demoralized the engine-whistle sounded and the engine stopped. Utterly
unnerved by his doubts, he slunk from the car like an escaping convict, and looked toward the
narrow moonlit valley which was as a gate leading into this unknown Spenersberg. The path
looked obscure and inviting, and so, without exchanging a word with
any one, he walked forward, a more pitiable object than is pleasant
to consider, for he was no coward and no fool.

CHAPTER II.

IN THE HAPPY VALLEY.

About the time that Leonhard Marten was paying for his ticket in the dépôt at A----, how many
events were taking place elsewhere! Multitudes, multitudes going up and down the earth perplexed,
tempted, discouraged. What were you doing at that hour? I wonder.

Even here, at this Spenersberg, was Frederick Loretz-- with reason deemed one of the most fortunate
of the men gathered in the happy valley-- asking himself, as he walked
homeward from the factory," What is the use?

"When he spied his wife on the piazza he seemed to doubt for a second whether he should go backward
or forward. Into that second of vacillation, however, the voice of the woman penetrated:" Husband,
so early? Welcome home!

"The voice decided him, and so he opened his gate, passed along the graveled walk to the piazza
steps, ascended, wiping the perspiration from his bald head, dropped his handkerchief into his
hat and his hat upon the floor, and sat down in one of the great wide-armed wooden chairs which
visitors always found awaiting them on the piazza.

His wife, having bestowed upon him one brief glance, quickly arose and went into the house:
the next moment she came again, bringing with her a pitcher of iced water and a goblet, which
she placed before him on a small rustic table. But a second glance showed her that he was suffering
from something besides the heat and fatigue. There was a look on his broad honest face that told as
distinctly as color and expression could tell of anguish, consternation, remorse. He drank
from the goblet she had filled for him, and said, without looking at his wife," I have brought
you the worst news, Anna, that ever you heard. "She must have guessed what it was instantly,
but she made neither sign nor gesture. She could have enumerated there and then all the sorrows
of her life; but for a moment it was not possible even for her to say that this impending affliction
was, in view of all she had endured, a light one, easy to be borne."

It has gone against us, "said Mr. Loretz, picking up his red silk handkerchief and passing it
from one hand to another, and finally hiding his face within its
ample dimensions for a moment."

Do
you mean the lot? "Her voice wavered a little. Though she asked or refrained from asking,
something had taken place which must be made known speedily. Wherefore, then, delay the evil
knowledge?

He signified by a nod that it was so."

And that is in store for our poor child! "said the mother.

Mr. Loretz was now quite broken down. He passed his handkerchief across his face again, and
this time made no answer.

Then the mother, with lips firmly compressed, and eyes bent steadily upon the floor, and forehead
crumpled somewhat, sat and held her peace.

At last the father said, in a low tone that gave to his strong voice an awful pathos," How can
the child bear it, Anna? for she loves Spener well-- and to love
him well!

"" Oh, father, "said the wife, who had by this time sounded the depth of this tribulation, and was
already ascending," how did we bear it when we had to give up Gabriel, and Jacob, and dear
little Carl?

"" For me, "said the man, rising and looking over the piazza rail into the gay little flower-garden
beneath--" for me all that was nothing to this.

"" O my boys! "the mother cried."

We know that they went home to a heavenly Parent, and to more delight and honor than all the
earth could give them, "the father said."

It rent the heart, Frederick, but into the gaping wound the balm
of Gilead was poured.

"" There is no man alive to be compared with Albert Spener.

"" I know of one-- but one.

"" Not one, "he said with an emphasis which sternly rebuked the ill-timed, and, as he deemed, untruthful
flattery." There is not his like, go where you will.

"" Ah, how you have exalted him above all that is to be worshiped! "sighed the good woman, putting
her hands together, and really as troubled and sympathetic, and cool and calculating, as she seemed
to be."

I tell you I have never seen his equal! Look at this place here-- hasn't he called it up out
of the dust?
"" Yes, yes, he did. He made it all, "she said." It must be conceded
that Albert Spener is a great man-- in Spenersberg.

"" How, then, can
I keep back from him the best I have when he asks for it-- asks for
it as if I were a king to refuse him what he wanted if I pleased?
I would give him my life!

"" Ah, Frederick, you have! It isn't you
that denies now-- think of that! Remind him of it. Who spoke by the
lot? Where are you going, husband?

"Mr. Loretz had turned away from
the piazza rail and picked up his hat. His wife's question arrested
him." I-- I thought I would speak with Brother Wenck, "said he, somewhat
confused by the question, and looking almost as if his sole purpose
had been to go beyond the sound of his wife's remonstrating voice."

Husband,
about this?

"" Yes, Anna.

"" Don't go. What will he think?

"" Nobody
knows about it yet, except Wenck, unless he spoke to Brother Thorn.

"" Oh,
Frederick, what are you thinking?

"" I am thinking "-- he paused
and looked fixedly at his wife--" I am thinking that I have been beside
myself, Anna-- crazy, out and out, and this thing can't stand.

"" Husband,
it was our wish to learn the will of God concerning this marriage,
and we have learned it. The Lord---- ""

I will go back to the factory, "said
Mr. Loretz, turning quickly away from his wife." I must see if everything
is right there before it gets darker. "He had caught sight of the tall
figure of a woman at the gate when he snatched up his hat so suddenly
and interrupted his wife. Then he turned to her again:" Is Elise within?
""

No, husband: she went to the garden for twigs
this afternoon.

"" She had not heard?

"" No. It is Sister Benigna
that is coming. Must you go back? "She poured another glass of water
for her husband, and walked down the steps with him; and coming so,
out from the shade into the sunlight, Sister Benigna was startled
by their faces as though she had seen two ghosts.

Two hours later,
Mr. Loretz again turned his steps homeward, and Mr. Wenck, the minister,
walked with him as far as the gate. They had met accidentally upon
the sidewalk, and Mr. Loretz must of necessity make some allusion
to the letter he had received from the minister that day acquainting
him with the allotment which had made of him so hopeless a mourner.
The good man hesitated a moment before making response: then he took
both the hands of Loretz in his, and said in a deep, tender voice,"
Brother, the wound smarts.

"" I cannot bear it! "cried Loretz."
It is all my doing, and I must have been crazy.

"" When in devout faith
you sought to know God's will concerning your dear child?

"" I cannot
talk about it, "was the impatient response." And you cannot understand
it, "he continued, turning quickly upon his companion." You have never
had a daughter, and you don't understand Albert Spener.

"" I think,
"said the minister patiently--" I think I know him well enough to see
what the consequence will be if he should suspect that Brother Loretz
is like'a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed.'"Yet
as the minister said this his head drooped, his voice softened, and
he laid his hand on the shoulder of Mr. Loretz, as if he would fain
speak on and in a different strain.

It
was evident that the distressed man did not understand him, and reproof
or counsel was more than he could now bear. He walked on a little faster,
and as he approached his gate voices from within were heard. They were
singing a duet from The Messiah." Come in, "said Loretz, his face suddenly
lighting up with almost hope. Mr. Wenck seemed disposed to accept
the invitation: then, as he was about to pass through the gate, he was
stayed by a recollection apparently, for he turned back, saying,"
Not to-night, Brother Loretz.

They will need all the time for practice. Let me tell
you, I admire your daughter Elise beyond expression.

I wish that Mr. Spener could hear that voice now: it
is perfectly triumphant. You are happy, sir, in having such a daughter.
"As Mr. Wenck turned from the gate, Leonhard-- our Leonhard Marten--
approached swiftly from the opposite side of the street. He had been
sitting under the trees half an hour listening to the singing, and,
full of enthusiasm, now presented himself before Mr. Loretz, exclaiming,"
Do tell me, sir, what singers are these?

"Mr. Loretz knew every man
in Spenersberg. He looked at the stranger, and answered dryly," Very
tolerable singers. "" I should think so! I never heard anything so glorious.
I am a stranger here, sir. Can you direct me to a public-house? "To answer
was easy. There was but the one inn, called the Brethren's House, the
sixth below the one before which they were standing.

It was a long house, painted white, with a deep wide porch,
where half a dozen young men probably sat smoking at this moment.

Instead of
giving this direction, however, Loretz said, after a brief consultation
with himself," I don't know as there's another house in Spenersberg
that ought to be as open as mine.

I live here, sir. How long
have you been listening? "" Not long enough, "said Leonhard; and
he passed through the gate, which had been opened for the minister, and
now was opened as widely for him.***** CHAPTER III. HIGH ART. The room
into which Mr. Loretz conducted Leonhard seemed to our young friend, as
he glanced around it, fit for the court of Apollo. Its proportions
had obviously been assigned by some music-loving soul. It occupied
two-thirds of the lower floor of the house, and its high ceiling
was a noticeable feature.

The furniture
had all been made at the factory; the floor-mats were woven there;
and one gazing around him might well have wondered to what useful
or ornamental purpose the green willows growing everywhere in Spenersberg
Valley might not be applied.

The
very pictures hanging on the wall-- engraved likenesses of the great
masters Mozart and Beethoven-- had their frames of well-woven willow
twigs; and the rack which held the books and sheets of music was ornamented
on each side with raised wreaths of flowers wrought by deft hands
from the same pliant material.

At the piano, in the centre of the room, sat Sister Benigna-- by
her side, Elise Loretz.

It seemed, when Elise's father entered with the stranger, as if there
might be a suspension of the performance, but Loretz said," Two listeners
don't signify: we promise to make no noise.

Sit down, sir: give me your bag; "and taking
Leonhard's satchel, he retired with it to a corner, where he sat
down, and with his elbows on his knees, his head between his hands,
prepared himself to listen. Sister Benigna said to her companion," It
is time we practiced before an audience perhaps; "and they went on as if nothing
had happened. And sitting in that cool room on the eve of a scorching
and distracted day, is it any wonder that Leonhard composed himself
to accept any marvel that might present itself? Once across the threshold
of the Every-day, and there is nothing indeed for which one should not be prepared.
If in mood somewhat less enthusiastic than that of our traveler we look
in upon that little company, what shall we see? In the first place,
inevitably, Sister Benigna. But describe a picture, will you, or the
mountains, or the sea?

It must
have been something for the Spenersberg folk to know that such a woman
dwelt among them, yet probably two-thirds of her influence was unconsciously
put forth and as unconsciously received.

They knew that in musical matters she inspired them and exacted
of them to the uttermost, but they did not and could not know how much
her life was worth to all of them, and that they lived on a higher plane
because of those half dozen wonderful notes of hers, and the unflagging
enthusiasm which needed but the name of love-feast or festival to
bring a light into her lovely eyes that seemed to spread up and around
her white forehead and beautiful hair like a supernatural lustre.

There
was a fire that animated her which nobody who saw its glow or felt
its warmth could question.

Without
that altar of music-- But why speculate on what she might have been
if she had not been what she was? That would be to consider not Benigna,
but somebody else. She was accompanying Elise through Handel's" Pastoral
Symphony. "Elise began:" He is the righteous Saviour, and He shall
speak peace unto the heathen.

"

Against this danger William strengthened himself by the help of the tax that he had just levied.
He could hardly have dreamed of defending England against Danish invaders by English weapons
only. But he thought as little of trusting the work to his own Normans. With the money of England
he hired a host of mercenaries, horse and foot, from France and Britanny, even from Maine where
Hubert was still defying him at Sainte-Susanne.  He gathered this force on the mainland, and
came back at its head, a force such as England had never before seen; men wondered how the
land might feed them all. The King's men, French and English, had to feed them, each man according
to the amount of his land.  And now William did what Harold had refused to do; he laid waste
the whole coast that lay open to attack from Denmark and Flanders.  But no Danes, no Flemings,
came.  Disputes arose between Cnut and his brother Olaf, and the great enterprise came to nothing.
William kept part of his mercenaries in England, and part he sent to their homes.  Cnut was
murdered in a church by his own subjects, and was canonized as Sanctus Canutus by a Pope who
could not speak the Scandinavian name.

Meanwhile, at the Midwinter Gemot of 1085-1086, held in due form at Gloucester, William did
one of his greatest acts.  "The King had mickle thought and sooth deep speech with his Witan
about his land, how it were set and with whilk men."  In that "deep speech," so called in our
own tongue, lurks a name well known and dear to every Englishman.  The result of that famous
parliament is set forth at length by the Chronicler.  The King sent his men into each shire,
men who did indeed set down in their writ how the land was set and of what men.  In that writ
we have a record in the Roman tongue no less precious than the Chronicles in our own.  For
that writ became the Book of Winchester, the book to which our fathers gave the name of Domesday,
the book of judgement that spared no man.

The Great Survey was made in the course of the first seven months of the year 1086.  Commissioners
were sent into every shire, who inquired by the oaths of the men of the hundreds by whom the
land had been held in King Edward's days and what it was worth then, by whom it was held at
the time of the survey and what it was worth then; and lastly, whether its worth could be raised.
Nothing was to be left out.  This kind of searching inquiry, never liked at any time, would
be specially grievous then.  The taking of the survey led to disturbances in many places, in
which not a few lives were lost.  While the work was going on, William went to and fro till
he knew thoroughly how this land was set and of what men.  He had now a list of all men, French
and English, who held land in his kingdom.  And it was not enough to have their names in a
writ; he would see them face to face.  On the making of the survey followed that great assembly,
that great work of legislation, which was the crown of William's life as a ruler and lawgiver
of England.  The usual assemblies of the year had been held at Winchester and Westminster.
An extraordinary assembly was held in the plain of Salisbury on the first day of August.  The
work of that assembly has been already spoken of.  It was now that all the owners of land in
the kingdom became the men of the King; it was now that England became one, with no fear of
being again parted asunder.

The close connexion between the Great Survey and the law and the oath of Salisbury is plain.
It was a great matter for the King to get in the gold certainly and, we may add, fairly.  William
would deal with no man otherwise than according to law as he understood the law.  But he sought
for more than this.  He would not only know what this land could be made to pay; he would know
the state of his kingdom in every detail; he would know its military strength; he would know
whether his own will, in the long process of taking from this man and giving to that, had been
really carried out.  Domesday is before all things a record of the great confiscation, a record
of that gradual change by which, in less than twenty years, the greater part of the land of
England had been transferred from native to foreign owners.  And nothing shows like Domesday
in what a formally legal fashion that transfer was carried out.  What were the principles on
which it was carried out, we have already seen. All private property in land came only from
the grant of King William.  It had all passed into his hands by lawful forfeiture; he might
keep it himself; he might give it back to its old owner or grant it to a new one.  So it was
at the general redemption of lands; so it was whenever fresh conquests or fresh revolts threw
fresh lands into the King's hands.  The principle is so thoroughly taken for granted, that
we are a little startled to find it incidentally set forth in so many words in a case of no
special importance.  A priest named Robert held a single yardland in alms of the King; he became
a monk in the monastery of Stow-in-Lindesey, and his yardland became the property of the house.
One hardly sees why this case should have been picked out for a solemn declaration of the general
law.  Yet, as "the day on which the English redeemed their lands" is spoken of only casually
in the case of a particular estate, so the principle that no man could hold lands except by
the King's grant ("Non licet terram alicui habere nisi regis concessu") is brought in only
to illustrate the wrongful dealing of Robert and the monks of Stow in the case of a very small
holding indeed.

All this is a vast system of legal fictions; for William's whole position, the whole scheme
of his government, rested on a system of legal fictions. The lesson of Demas's life is clear, nay
even obtrusively clear, and the need of it has been freely acknowledged at all times. We could
almost wish that it were inscribed in letters of fire upon the midnight sky. He was a man who
"loved this present world," and we see in his history how loving the world involves separation
from God, and how separation from God results in the abandonment
of His cause.

It is difficult to discourse to any purpose upon worldliness. You might get a crowd of people anywhere
to hear you dilate upon it. They would probably applaud to the echo your most scathing denunciations
of its baseness. But after all the probability is that no one would apply those fervid periods
to himself. And why? Just because this evil principle manifests itself in such a variety of ways.
A man who detects worldliness in his neighbour with the greatest ease may be absolutely incapable
of seeing it in himself, simply because his own and his neighbour's are so different in form.
It is the old story. David boiled over with indignation at the hard-hearted monster who had taken
the poor man's lamb; but the fact that he himself had taken another man's wife, gave him no concern
whatever.

It will be readily conceded that the miser is a worldly man. He loves gold for its own sake;
he hoards up riches, not with the view of enjoying them, but in order to satisfy an inordinate
greed of possession; his chief object in life is to die worth his hundreds, his thousands,
or his millions. Though rich, he is frequently tormented with the fear of ending his days in want,
and is more anxious for the morrow than the poorest of the poor. The only redeeming point in
his character is his self-denial-- a truly noble characteristic when associated with a generous
disposition-- which, however, in his case, loses its value through the sordidness of its aim.
Yes, he is a worldly man, beyond the shadow of a doubt. But this is equally true of the man
whose manner of life is the very opposite of this-- the spendthrift.
He values money only in so far as it enables him to make a grand display,
to spend his days in riotous living, to gain the goodwill of the empty,
useless, pleasure-living society in which he moves.

The formulae of Domesday are the most speaking witness to the spirit of outward legality which
ruled every act of William.  In this way they are wonderfully instructive; but from the formulae
alone no one could ever make the real facts of William's coming and reign.  It is the incidental
notices which make us more at home in the local and personal life of this reign than of any
reign before or for a long time after.  The Commissioners had to report whether the King's
will had been everywhere carried out, whether every man, great and small, French and English,
had what the King meant him to have, neither more nor less.  And they had often to report a
state of things different from what the King had meant to be.  Many men had not all that King
William had meant them to have, and many others had much more.  Normans had taken both from
Englishmen and from other Normans. Before the letter quoted was written Leonhard had begun to feel
a little troubled: he had been obliged to add two thousand dollars to his original investment,
and the thought that possibly there might be a demand for a yet further sum-- for some unforeseen
difficulty had arisen in the matter of machinery-- had fixed in his mind a misgiving to which at
odd moments he returned with a flutter of spirits amounting almost
to panic.

On the promenade he met Miss Ayres.  Of these unlawful holdings of land, marked in the
technical language of the Survey as invasiones and occupationes, many were doubtless real cases
of violent seizure, without excuse even according to William's reading of the law.  But this
does not always follow, even when the language of the Survey would seem to imply it.  Words
implying violence, per vim and the like, are used in the legal language of all ages, where
no force has been used, merely to mark a possession as illegal.  We are startled at finding
the Apostle Paul set down as one of the offenders; but the words "sanctus Paulus invasit" mean
no more than that the canons of Saint Paul's church in London held lands to which the Commissioners
held that they had no good title.  It is these cases where one man held land which another
claimed that gave opportunity for those personal details, stories, notices of tenures and customs,
which make Domesday the most precious store of knowledge of the time. 

Never forget to offer it. He asked that "the hand of God might be with him"; that every day he
might feel the leadings and take no step which was not a step approved by God. And he asked that
the watchful and restraining power of the Almighty would "keep him
from evil."

You will do well to offer that prayer at the beginning. You will do well to offer it every day
to the end. It is a prayer that will keep; you will find it fresh each morning. And every day will
be a better day which is thus commenced, and every life will grow honourable in the sight of men,
and beautiful in the sight of God, which develops in the spirit of
it.

SIMEON BY REV. H. ELVET LEWIS The Temple shows to better advantage
at the beginning of the Gospel history than at its close.

As we follow our Lord through the events of the last week, we meet
no winsome faces within its precincts.

Annas is there, and Caiaphas; Pharisees too, blinded with envy; but there is no Zacharias seen
there, no Simeon, no doctors of the law even, such as gathered around the Boy of twelve. If any
successors of these still frequented the sanctuary, they are lost in the deep shadow cast by a nation's
crime. Perhaps we may consider those whom we meet on the threshold of our Lord's life as the
last of an old regime of prophetic souls, the last watchers passing
out of sight as the twilight of a coming doom thickened and settled
on the Holy City.

But there he stands, the gracious, winsome old man, whom death is not permitted to touch till the
Star of Bethlehem has risen. "It was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death
before he had seen the Lord's Christ!"

He is like a dweller of the spiritual world, who only returns to visit earthly ways. For him
the veil, though not as yet rent, has worn thin, and he is more familiar with the voices from
beyond it than with the voices of earth. The priest, the Levite, the Rabbi, pass him like
shadows: the Holy Ghost is his living companion and teacher. Consider his CHARACTER: "the same
man was just and devout." Inward and outward are in equipoise; he does not make frequent prayers
atone for equally frequent lapses in duty. He looks upon men in the light which has risen upon him
through looking
upon God. He brought with him, from the Throne of Grace, the tranquil
beams which helped him to perceive what he owed to his fellow-men. He
was so subdued to charity, that his one expectation was the consolation
of Israel. He was no prophet of doom; perhaps he was even blind to
the moral deterioration, the blight of ideals, growing more wasteful,
every day, of the nation's best life. To him, Israel was still more in need
of consolation than chastisement.  One last gleam of success was, after
so many reverses, to crown his arms; but it was success which was indeed unworthy of the Conqueror
who had entered Exeter and Le Mans in peaceful triumph.  And the death-blow was now to come
to him who, after so many years of warfare, stooped at last for the first time to cruel and
petty havoc without an object.

The border-land of France and Normandy, the French Vexin, the land of which Mantes is the capital,
had always been disputed between kingdom and duchy.  Border wars had been common; just at this
time the inroads of the French commanders at Mantes are said to have been specially destructive.
William not only demanded redress from the King, but called for the surrender of the whole
Vexin.  What followed is a familiar story. Ireland is a house divided against itself: fifty years
hence it may resemble Scotland. Meanwhile, there is no doubt whatever that a measure giving both
Ireland and Scotland something in the nature of State legislatures would find favor with many
English M. P. s, who greatly grudge having the valuable time of the imperial legislature wasted over
a gas-bill in Tipperary or a water-works scheme for Dundee. The bank seemed to me to be guarded
with extraordinary care. I went all over the roof, on which a guard is mounted at night. At
"coigns of vantage" there is a bullet-proof palisading, with peepholes through which a volley
of musketry might be poured. I should fancy that extra precautions have probably been taken since
the Fenian émeutes of the last ten years.

Dublin swarms with soldiers, constabulary and police. The metropolitan police is divided into
six divisions, each two hundred strong. Its men are, I believe, beyond a doubt the very finest
in the world in point of physique. Numbers of them are six feet two or three inches high, and
they are broad and athletic in proportion. Indeed, the magnificence of some of them who are detached
for duty at certain "great confluences of human existence" is such that you see strangers standing
and gaping at the giants in sheer amazement. The metropolitan police is quite distinct from
the constabulary, and under a different chief.

Outside the bank, in College Green, is the celebrated statue of William III. Its location has
been more than once changed, and it is now placed where the officer on guard at the bank can
keep an eye upon it. This fearful object, which would make a Pradier or Chantrey shudder, is
painted and gilt annually. It has long served as a bone of contention between Protestant and Papist,
and has come off very badly several times at the hands of the latter-- a circumstance which probably
accounts for one of the horse's legs being about a foot longer than the rest-- half of that
limb having been renewed after it had been lost in one of the many
free fights in which this remarkable quadruped has seen service. The
greatest proprietor of real estate in Dublin is the young earl of
Pembroke, son of the late Right Hon. Sidney Herbert, so well known
in connection with the Crimean war, who was created, shortly before
his death, Lord Herbert of Lea.

There is no need to doubt the striking details of the death and burial of the Conqueror.  We
shrink from giving the same trust to the long tale of penitence which is put into the mouth
of the dying King.  He may, in that awful hour, have seen the wrong-doing of the last one-and-twenty
years of his life; he hardly threw his repentance into the shape of a detailed autobiographical
confession.  But the more authentic sayings and doings of William's death-bed enable us to
follow his course as an English statesman almost to his last moments.  His end was one of devotion,
of prayers and almsgiving, and of opening of the prison to them that were bound.  All save
one of his political prisoners, English and Norman, he willingly set free.  Morkere and his
companions from Ely, Walfnoth son of Godwine, hostage for Harold's faith, Wulf son of Harold
and Ealdgyth, taken, we can hardly doubt, as a babe when Chester opened its gates to William,
were all set free; some indeed were put in bonds again by the King's successor.  But Ode William
would not set free; he knew too well how many would suffer if he were again let loose upon
the world.  But love of kindred was still strong; at last he yielded, sorely against his will,
to the prayers and pledges of his other brother.  Ode went forth from his prison, again Bishop
of Bayeux, soon again to be Earl of Kent, and soon to prove William's foresight by his deeds.

William's disposal of his dominions on his death-bed carries on his political history almost
to his last breath.  Robert, the banished rebel, might seem to have forfeited all claims to
the succession. But the doctrine of hereditary right had strengthened during the sixty years
of William's life.  He is made to say that, though he foresees the wretchedness of any land
over which Robert should be the ruler, still he cannot keep him out of the duchy of Normandy
which is his birthright.  Of England he will not dare to dispose; he leaves the decision to
God, seemingly to Archbishop Lanfranc as the vicar of God. It was a long, low, spreading structure
with a thatched roof, and a verandah round it. A wilderness of tropical plants hemmed it in. But
all appearance of simplicity vanished on our entrance. In the matted hall stood a tree to receive
the light coverings we had worn; not a "hat tree," as we say at home by poetic license, but the
counterfeit presentment of a real tree, carved in branches and delicate foliage out of black
wood. The drawing-room was eight-sided, and would have held, with some margin, the gambrel-roofed
house, chimneys and all, in which I had spent my life. Two sides were open into other rooms,
with Corinthian pillars reaching to the roof. Carved screens a little higher than our heads filled
the space between the pillars, and separated the drawing-room from Mrs. Rayne's boudoir on the
side and the dining-room on the other.

The furniture of these rooms was like so many verses of a poem. Every chair and table had been designed
by Mrs. Rayne, and then realized in black wood by the patient hands
of natives.

Another side opened by three glass doors on a verandah, and only a few rods below the house
the sea dashed against a beach.

After dinner I sat on the verandah drinking coffee and the sea-breeze by turns. The gentlemen walked
up and down smoking the pipe of peace, while Mrs. Rayne sat within, talking with Rhoda in the
candlelight. Opposite me, as I looked in at the open door, hung two Madonnas, the Sistine and
the Virgin of the Immaculate Conception. In front of each stood a tall flower-stand carved to
imitate the leaves and blossoms of the calla lily. These black flowers held great bunches of the
Annunciation lily, sacred to the Virgin through all the ages. Mrs. Rayne had taken off the close-buttoned
jacket, and her dress was now open at the throat, with some rich old lace clinging about it and
fastened with a pearl daisy.

"Have you forgiven me the minute's deception I put upon you?" said Mr. Rayne, pausing beside
me. "If I had not read admiration in your face, I would have told
you the truth at once."

"How could one help admiring her?"

"I don't know, I'm sure: I never could."

"She has the serenest face, like still, shaded water. I wonder how
she would look in trouble?"

"It
is not becoming to her."

"Are you sure?"

"Quite."

"Your way of life here seems so perfect! No hurry nor worry-- nothing
to make wrinkles."

"You like this smooth Indian living, then?"

"Like it! I hope you won't think me wholly given over to love of things that perish in the using,
but if I could live this sort of life with the one I liked best,
heaven would be a superfluity."

"It
is heaven indeed when I think of the purgatory from which we came into it," said Mr. Rayne, throwing
away his cigar and carrying off my coffee-cup.

"Do you know anything of Mrs. Rayne's history before her marriage?" I said to Frank as I joined him
in his walk.

"Nothing to speak of-- only she was a widow."
"Oh!" said I, feeling that a spot or two had suddenly appeared on
the face of the sun.

"That's nothing against her, is it?"

"No, but
I have no patience with second marriages."

"Nor first ones, either,"
said Frank wickedly.

"But seriously, Frank-- would you like to have
a wife so beautiful as Mrs. Rayne?"

"Yes, if she had Rhoda's soul
inside of her," said Frank stoutly.

"I shouldn't."

"Why not?"

"Because
all sorts of eyes gloat on her beauty and drink it in, and in one
way appropriate it to themselves. Mr. Rayne is as proud of the admiration
given to his wife as if it were a personal tribute to his own taste
in selecting her. A beautiful woman never really and truly belongs
to her husband unless he can keep a veil over her face, as the Turks
do."

"I knew you had'views,'" said Mr. Rayne behind me, "but I had
no idea they were so heathenish. What is New England coming to under
the new rule? Are the plain women going to shut up all the handsome
ones?"

"I was only supposing a case."

"Suppositions are dangerous.
You first endure, then dally with them, and finally embrace them as
established facts."

"I was only saying that if I am a man when I
come into the world next time (as the Hindoos say), I shall marry
a plain woman with a charming disposition, and so, as it were, have
my diamond all to myself by reason of its dull cover."

"Jealousy,
thy name is woman!" said Mr. Rayne. "When the Woman's Republic is
set up, how I shall pity the handsome ones!"

"They will all be banished
to some desert island," said Frank.

"And draw all men after them,
as the'Pied Piper of Hamelin'did the rats," said Mr. Rayne.

"What
are you talking about?" said Mrs. Rayne, joining us at this point.

"The
pity of it," said her husband, "that beauty is only skin deep."

"That
is deep enough," said Mrs. Rayne.

"Yes, if age and sickness and trouble
did not make one shed it so soon," said I ungratefully.

"Don't mention
it," said Mrs. Rayne-- "'tis bad enough when it comes. Do you remember
that Greek woman in Lothair, whose father was so fearfully rich that
she seemed to be all crusted with precious stones?"  So it was with the increased connexion of
every kind between England and the continent of Europe which followed on William's coming.
With one part of Europe indeed the connexion of England was lessened. For three centuries before
William's coming, dealings in war and peace with the Scandinavian kingdoms had made up a large
part of English history.  Since the baffled enterprise of the holy Cnut, our dealings with
that part of Europe have been of only secondary account.

But in our view of William as an English statesman, the main feature of all is that spirit
of formal legality of which we have so often spoken.  Its direct effects, partly designed,
partly undesigned, have affected our whole history to this day.  It was his policy to disguise
the fact of conquest, to cause all the spoils of conquest to be held, in outward form, according
to the ancient law of England. In the court itself Maachah and her party were implacable. Outside
it the idolatrous priests, and all their hangers-on, whose vested interests were abolished, were plotting
and scheming against the king. But Asa was imperturbable, because he had found God to be his
refuge and strength. The man who really fears God finds the fear
of his fellows thereby cast out.

To Jehovah, therefore, the brave king brought all his difficulties. Against them all we have
no power, and may well pray as Asa did. "Lord, help us." Then He will fulfil the promise,
"When the enemy comes in like a flood, the spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard against
him."

III.

After his great deliverance Asa renewed his consecration. The need for its renewal shows that
in character and conduct he was far from being all that he ought to have been. He was not "perfect"
in that sense. His earnestness cooled down. Through his carelessness the "high places" were re-erected.
He seems to have been content that the "groves," with their grosser
forms of idolatry, were gone, and that other forms might be tolerated,
just as some, who have conquered their vices, are morally ruined by
what the world calls little sins. But, in spite of these failings,
the judgment of God, who is ever slow to anger and of great mercy,
was that Asa's heart was "perfect"-- sound, whole, and sincere, though
not sinless.

How happy it is that God judges not as man judges, that
He can unerringly read the heart, and graciously accepts even the
imperfect and blundering service which we sincerely offer to Him.  The
old institutions lived on, to be clothed with a fresh life, to be modified as changed circumstances
might make needful.  The despotism of the Norman kings, the peculiar character of that despotism,
enabled the great revolution of the thirteenth century to take the forms, which it took, at
once conservative and progressive.  So it was when, more than four centuries after William's
day, England again saw a despotism carried on under the forms of law.  Henry the Eighth reigned
as William had reigned; he did not reign like his brother despots on the continent; the forms
of law and freedom lived on. These are deliberate apostates; men who with their eyes open prefer
darkness to light, who of set purpose deny the truth and embrace error. Happily the world contains
but few such. To the honour of human nature, fallen though it be, it may be said that it instinctively
recoils from such characters with a sense of horror. We do not think for a moment that Demas
belonged to this class, though the terms in which he is sometimes spoken of might lead one to
suppose so.

There are others who fall away through weakness.  This characteristic of English history is mainly owing to the events of the eleventh
century, and owing above all to the personal agency of William.  As far as mortal man can guide
the course of things when he is gone, the course of our national history since William's day
has been the result of William's character and of William's acts. The Castilian tongue lent wonderful
pomp and magnificence to this portrait, and as the metaphors thickened and the superb phrases
lost themselves in hyperbole, one would have thought the lady in question was about to fly
back to her native stars on a pair of resplendent wings. Colonel Perez furnished an equally elaborate
delineation of his own fair helpmate.

As for the wife of Lorenzo, nobody knew what she was like, and the
panegyric from the lips of her faithful lord rolled on in safety and
success.

Stranger and conqueror, his deeds won him a right to a place on the roll of English statesmen,
and no man that came after him has won a right to a higher place.

