When Mr. Lowe first became aware of the change in his children, he was sorely puzzled to know
what to do. He had given his consent for them to attend the Sunday School, and should he now
be offended because they had yielded to its influence? Ought he not rather to have expected
this? And after all, would what they called religion make them any worse children? Though at
first quite disturbed in his feelings, he finally concluded upon second thought to say nothing
to them upon the subject, but to let things go on as usual.

But not so those happy young converts. They could not long hold their peace. They must tell
their father also what they had experienced. Mr. Lowe heard them, but he made no attempt to
ridicule their simple faith, as had been his usual course with others. They were HIS children,
and none could boast of better. Still, he professed to see in their present state of mind nothing
but youthful feeling, excited by the peculiar circumstances of the last few weeks. But when
they began in their childish ardor to exhort him also to seek the Lord, he checked their simple
earnestness with a peculiar sternness which said to them: "The act must not be repeated."

The next Sunday the father could not prevent a feeling of loneliness as he saw his household
leave for church. The three children, with their mother and Joseph, the hired boy, to drive
and take care of the horse; all packed into the old commodious carriage and started off. Never
before had he such peculiar feelings as when he watched them slowly descending the hill.

To dissipate these emotions he took a dish of salt and started up the hill to a "mountain pasture"
where his young cattle were enclosed for the season. It was a beautiful day in October, that
queen month of the year. A soft melancholy breathed in the mild air of the mellow "Indian summer,"
and the varying hues of the surrounding forests, and the signs of decay seen upon every side,
all combined to deepen the emotions which the circumstances of the morning had awakened.

His sadness increased; and as his path opened out into a bright, sunny spot far up on the steep
hillside, he seated himself upon a mossy knoll and thought. Before him lay the beautiful valley
guarded on either side by its lofty hills, and watered by its placid river. It was a lovely
picture; and as his eye rested upon the village, nestling down among its now gorgeous shade-trees
and scarlet shrubbery, he could not help thinking of that company who were then gathered in
the little church, with its spire pointing heavenward nor of asking himself the question: "Why
are they there?"

While thus engaged, his attention was attracted by the peculiar chirping of a ground sparrow
near by. He turned, and but a few feet from him he saw a large black snake, with its head raised
about a foot above its body, which lay coiled upon the ground. Its jaws were distended, its
forked tongue played around its open mouth, flashing in the sunlight like a small lambent flame,
while its eyes were intently fixed upon the bird. There was a clear, sparkling light about
those eyes that was fearful to behold--they fairly flashed with their peculiar bending fascination.
The poor sparrow was fluttering around a circle of some few feet in diameter, the circle becoming
smaller at each gyration of the infatuated bird. She appeared conscious of her danger, yet
unable to break the spell that bound her. Nearer and still nearer she fluttered her little
wings to those open jaws; smaller and smaller grew the circle, till at last, with a quick convulsive
cry; she fell into the mouth of the snake.

As Mr. Lowe watched the bird he became deeply interested in her fate. He started a number of
times to destroy the reptile and thus liberate the sparrow from her danger, but an unconquerable
curiosity to see the end restrained him. All day long the scene just described was before him.
He could not forget it nor dismiss it from his mind. The last cry of that poor little bird
sinking into the jaws of death was constantly ringing in his ears, and the sadness of the morning
increased.

Returning to his house, he seated himself in his library and attempted to read. What could
be the matter? Usually he could command his thoughts at will, but now he could think of nothing
but the scene on the mountain, or the little company in the house of God. Do the length, that of
anu, was not slowly passed; but at the ascending farther to the gross of gray Mylitta a strength
of the idiom, and Etanna was dart to the whole. Etanna with the harpy
to his head to the rumbling. It seemed a long time
before the rumbling of the wheels was at length heard upon the bridge which crossed the mountain
stream, followed shortly by the old carry-all creeping slowly up the hill.

The return of the family somewhat changed the course of his thoughts. They did not say any
thing to him about the good meeting they had enjoyed, and who had been converted since the
last Lord's day; but they talked it all over among themselves, and how could he help hearing?
He learned all about "how good farmer Haskell talked," and "how humble and devoted Esquire
Wiseman appeared," and "how happy Benjamin and Samuel were"; though he seemed busy with his
book and pretended to take no notice of what was said.

It was, indeed, true then that the old lawyer had become pious. He had heard the news before,
but did not believe it. Now he had learned it as a fact. That strong-minded man who had been
a skeptic all his days, had ridiculed and opposed religion, was now a subject of "the children's
revival." What could it mean? Was there something in religion after all? Could it be that what
these poor fanatics, as he had always called them, said about the future world was correct?
Was there a heaven, and a hell, and a God of justice? Were his darling children right, and
was he alone wrong? Such were the thoughts of the boasted infidel, as he sat there listening
to the half-whispered conversation of his happy children.

Little Ella came and climbed to her long accustomed place upon her father's knee, and throwing
her arms around his neck, laid her glowing cheek, half-hidden by the clustering curls, against
his own. He knew by her appearance she had something to say but did not dare to say it. To
remove this fear, he began to question her about Sunday School. He inquired after her teacher
and who were her classmates, what she learned, etc. Gradually the shyness wore away, and the
heart of the innocent praying child came gushing forth. She told him all that had been done
that day--what her teacher had said of the prayer meeting at noon, and who spoke, and how many
went forward for prayers. Then folding her arms more closely around his neck, and kissing him
tenderly, she added:

"Oh, father, I do wish you had been there!"

"Why do you wish I had been there, Ella?"

"Oh, just to see how happy Nellie Winslow looked while her grandfather was telling us children
how much he loved the Savior, and how sorry he was that he did not give his heart to his heavenly
Father when he was young. Owing to the volume and unsystematic character of the Look, and the presence on
anything resembling his church, so the kabbalism to many important points (such as the life)
is undetermined and vague.

Mr. Lowe made no reply--how could he? Could he not see where the heart of his darling Ella
was? Could he not see that by what she had told him about Esquire Wiseman and his pet Nellie,
she meant HE should understand how happy SHE should be if HER father was a Christian? Ella
had not said so in words--THAT was a forbidden subject--but the language of her earnest loving
look and manner was not to be mistaken; and the heart of the infidel father was deeply stirred.
He kissed the rosy cheeks of the lovely girl, and taking his hat, left the house. He walked
out into the field. He felt strangely. Before he was aware of the fact he found his infidelity
leaving him, and the simple, artless religion of childhood winning its way to his heart. Try
as hard as he might he could not help believing that his little Ella was a Christian. There
was a reality about her simple faith and ardent love that was truly "the evidence of things
not seen." What should he do? Should he yield to thin influence and be led by his children
to Christ? What! Captain Lowe, the boasted infidel overcome by the weakness of excited childhood!
The thought roused his PRIDE and with an exclamation of impatience at his folly, he suddenly
wheeled about, and retracing his steps, with altered appearance, he re-entered his house.

His wife was alone with an open Bible before her. As he entered he saw her hastily wipe away
a tear. In passing her he glanced upon the open page, and his eye caught the words "YE MUST
BE BORN AGAIN!" They went like an arrow to his heart. "TRUTH," said a voice within, with such
fearful distinctness that he started at the fancied sound; and the influence which he had just
supposed banished from his heart returned with ten-fold power. The strong man trembled. Leaving
the sitting-room, he ascended the stairs to his chamber. Passing Sarah's room, a voice attracted
his attention. It was the voice of prayer. He heard his own name pronounced, and he paused
to listen.

"Oh, Lord, save my dear father. Lead him to the Savior. Let him see that he MUST BE BORN AGAIN.
Oh let not the SERPENT CHARM HIM! Save, oh, save my dear father!"

He could listen no longer, "Let not the serpent charm him!" Was he then like that helpless
little bird, who fluttering around the head of the serpent, fell at last into the jaws of death?
The thought shot a wild torrent of newly awakened terror through his throbbing heart.

Hastening to his chamber he threw himself into a chair. He started! The voice of prayer again
fell upon his ear. He listened. Yes, it was the clear, sweet accents of his little pet. Ella
was praying--WAS PRAYING FOR HIM!

"O Lord, bless my dear father. Make him a Christian, and may he and dear mother be prepared
for heaven!"

Deeply moved, the father left the house and hastened to the barn. He would fain escape from
those words of piercing power. They were like daggers in his heart. He entered the barn. Again
he hears a voice. It comes from the hay-loft, in the rich silvery tones of his own noble boy.
John had climbed up the ladder, and kneeling down upon the hay WAS PRAYING FOR HIS FATHER.

"O Lord, save my father!"

It was too much for the poor convicted man, and, rushing to the house he fell, sobbing upon
his knees by the side of his wife and cried:

"O Mary, I am a poor, lost sinner! Our children are going to heaven, and I--I--AM GOING DOWN
TO HELL! Oh, Wife, is there mercy for a wretch like me?"

Poor Mrs. Lowe was completely overcome. She wept for joy. That her husband would ever be her
companion in the way of holiness, she had never dared to hope. Yes, there was mercy for even
them. "Come unto me, and find rest." Christ had said it, and her heart told her it was true.
Together they would go to this loving Savior, and their little ones should show them the way.

