A VOYAGE IN A BALLOON (1852)

by

Jules Verne

REDACTOR'S NOTE

From Sartain's Union Magazine of Literature and Art (Philadelphia: 1849-1852): May 1852: VOL.
X. No. 5: p. 389-395.

John Sartain (1808-1897) was an English artist and engraver skilled in the art of mezzotint
who emigrated to the United States; in 1848 he purchased a one-half interest in the "Union
Magazine", a New York periodical, which he transferred to Philadelphia. The name was changed
to "Sartain's Union Magazine", and during the four years of its existence the journal became
widely known, publishing works of Poe and other literati. The article here is a translation
of "La science en famille / Un voyage en ballon. / (Réponse à l'énigme de juillet.)", In: Musée
des Familles. Lectures du soir, Paris, seconde série. vol. 8, no. 11 (August 1851), pp. 329-336
(5 illustrations by A. de Bar, two chapters). This is a different version from the one published
by Hetzel; "Un drame dans les airs", in: Le Docteur Ox, 19 October 1874, (ed. C & D) (6 illustrations
by Emile Bayard, only one chapter!).

In this early work we see the ingredients of Verne's later Voyages Extraordinaires; characters
brought or thrown together on a journey to afar; introduction of new characters part way through
the story; careful scientific explanation of critical events (the ascension, filling the balloon,
rising and falling, ballast); use of dialogue to convey scientific information (the history
of ballooning); use of scientific instruments (barometer, compass); chapter heads to presage
the story; escapes from perilous events caused by scientific or natural catastrophes.

One may also wonder why Hetzel removed the description of the inflation of the balloon with
hydrogen gas. In fact hydrogen is barely mentioned in the revised story. Could it be that while
Hetzel approved of Verne's scientific descriptions of impossible undertakings, when it came
to real exploits such as ballooning he did not want his juvenile readers experimenting with
the "hogsheads of sulphuric acid and nails" to produce explosive hydrogen? In fact in the Hetzel
version the lifting gas hydrogen is replaced with "illuminating gas", an inferior, though lighter
than air material, but one which his readers would find difficult to use for deadly experimentation.

It may also be that Verne had little to do with this volume; Hetzel may have edited the collection
so that it would count as one of the required volumes Verne was to produce annually. The correspondence
archives may shed some light.

Ms. Wilbur also translated other articles on ballooning from the French. It is also interesting
that she retained in her translation the original units which Verne used (metre, feet, leagues),
a practice forgotten until recently. This may be the first appearance of a work by Jules Verne
in the English language.

Norman M. Wolcott Rockville, Maryland

A VOYAGE IN A BALLOON

by

JULES VERNE

Translated from the French by Anne T. Wilbur

1852

I.

My Ascension at Frankfort--The Balloon, the Gas, the Apparatus, the Ballast--An Unexpected
Travelling Companion--Conversation in the Air--Anecdotes--At 800 Metres[A]--The Portfolio of
the Pale Young Man--Pictures and Caricatures--Des Rosiers and d'Arlandes--At 1200 Metres--Atmospheric
Phenomena--The Philosopher Charles--Systems--Blanchard--Guyton-Morveaux--M. Julien--M. Petin--At
1500 Metres--The Storm--Great Personages in Balloons--The Valve--The Curious Animals--The Aerial
Ship--Game of Balloons.

[Footnote A: A metre is equal to 39.33 English inches.]

