"AND FAIR, FIERCE WOMEN" She was standing at the window, looking over to Knocknarea where Queen
Maive is thought to be buried, when she saw, as she has told me, "the finest woman you ever
saw travelling right across from the mountain and straight to her." The woman had a sword by
her side and a dagger lifted up in her hand, and was dressed in white, with bare arms and feet.
She looked "very strong, but not wicked," that is, not cruel. The old woman had seen the Irish
giant, and "though he was a fine man," he was nothing to this woman, "for he was round, and
could not have stepped out so soldierly"; "she was like Mrs.-----" a stately lady of the neighbourhood,
"but she had no stomach on her, and was slight and broad in the shoulders, and was handsomer
than any one you ever saw; she looked about thirty." The old woman covered her eyes with her
hands, and when she uncovered them the apparition had vanished. The neighbours were "wild with
her," she told me, because she did not wait to find out if there was a message, for they were
sure it was Queen Maive, who often shows herself to the pilots. I asked the old woman if she
had seen others like Queen Maive, and she said, "Some of them have their hair down, but they
look quite different, like the sleepy-looking ladies one sees in the papers. Those with their
hair up are like this one. The others have long white dresses, but those with their hair up
have short dresses, so that you can see their legs right up to the calf." After some careful
questioning I found that they wore what might very well be a kind of buskin; she went on, "They
are fine and dashing looking, like the men one sees riding their horses in twos and threes
on the slopes of the mountains with their swords swinging." She repeated over and over, "There
is no such race living now, none so finely proportioned," or the like, and then said, "The
present Queen[FN#7] is a nice, pleasant- looking woman, but she is not like her. What makes
me think so little of the ladies is that I see none as they be," meaning as the spirits. "When
I think of her and of the ladies now, they are like little children running about without knowing
how to put their clothes on right. Is it the ladies? Why, I would not call them women at all."
The other day a friend of mine questioned an old woman in a Galway workhouse about Queen Maive,
and was told that "Queen Maive was handsome, and overcame all her enemies with a bawl stick,
for the hazel is blessed, and the best weapon that can be got. You might walk the world with
it," but she grew "very disagreeable in the end--oh very disagreeable. Best not to be talking
about it. Best leave it between the book and the hearer." My friend thought the old woman had
got some scandal about Fergus son of Roy and Maive in her head.

[FN#7]  Queen Victoria.

And I myself met once with a young man in the Burren Hills who remembered an old poet who made
his poems in Irish and had met when he was young, the young man said, one who called herself
Maive, and said she was a queen "among them," and asked him if he would have money or pleasure.
He said he would have pleasure, and she gave him her love for a time, and then went from him,
and ever after he was very mournful. The young man had often heard him sing the poem of lamentation
that he made, but could only remember that it was "very mournful," and that he called her "beauty
of all beauties."

1902.

ENCHANTED WOODS

I

Last summer, whenever I had finished my day's work, I used to go wandering in certain roomy
woods, and there I would often meet an old countryman, and talk to him about his work and about
the woods, and once or twice a friend came with me to whom he would open his heart more readily
than to me, He had spent all his life lopping away the witch elm and the hazel and the privet
and the hornbeam from the paths, and had thought much about the natural and supernatural creatures
of the wood. He has heard the hedgehog--"grainne oge," he calls him-- "grunting like a Christian,"
and is certain that he steals apples by rolling about under an apple tree until there is an
apple sticking to every quill. He is certain too that the cats, of whom there are many in the
woods, have a language of their own--some kind of old Irish. He says, "Cats were serpents,
and they were made into cats at the time of some great change in the world. That is why they
are hard to kill, and why it is dangerous to meddle with them. If you annoy a cat it might
claw or bite you in a way that would put poison in you, and that would be the serpent's tooth."
Sometimes he thinks they change into wild cats, and then a nail grows on the end of their tails;
but these wild cats are not the same as the marten cats, who have been always in the woods.
The foxes were once tame, as the cats are now, but they ran away and became wild. He talks
of all wild creatures except squirrels--whom he hates--with what seems an affectionate interest,
though at times his eyes will twinkle with pleasure as he remembers how he made hedgehogs unroll
themselves when he was a boy, by putting a wisp of burning straw under them.

I am not certain that he distinguishes between the natural and supernatural very clearly. He
told me the other day that foxes and cats like, above all, to be in the "forths" and lisses
after nightfall; and he will certainly pass from some story about a fox to a story about a
spirit with less change of voice than when he is going to speak about a marten cat--a rare
beast now-a-days. Many years ago he used to work in the garden, and once they put him to sleep
in a garden-house where there was a loft full of apples, and all night he could hear people
rattling plates and knives and forks over his head in the loft. Once, at any rate, be has seen
an unearthly sight in the woods. He says, "One time I was out cutting timber over in Inchy,
and about eight o'clock one morning when I got there I saw a girl picking nuts, with her hair
hanging down over her shoulders, brown hair, and she had a good, clean face, and she was tall
and nothing on her head, and her dress no way gaudy but simple, and when she felt me coming
she gathered herself up and was gone as if the earth had swallowed her up. And I followed her
and looked for her, but I never could see her again from that day to this, never again." He
used the word clean as we would use words like fresh or comely.

Others too have seen spirits in the Enchanted Woods. A labourer told us of what a friend of
his had seen in a part of the woods that is called Shanwalla, from some old village that was
before the weed. He said, "One evening I parted from Lawrence Mangan in the yard, and he went
away through the path in Shanwalla, an' bid me goodnight. And two hours after, there he was
back again in the yard, an' bid me light a candle that was in the stable. An' he told me that
when he got into Shanwalla, a little fellow about as high as his knee, but having a head as
big as a man's body, came beside him and led him out of the path an' round about, and at last
it brought him to the lime-kiln, and then it vanished and left him."

A woman told me of a sight that she and others had seen by a certain deep pool in the river.
She said, "I came over the stile from the chapel, and others along with me; and a great blast
of wind came and two trees were bent and broken and fell into the river, and the splash of
water out of it went up to the skies. And those that were with me saw many figures, but myself
I only saw one, sitting there by the bank where the trees fell. Dark clothes he had on, and
he was headless."

A man told me that one day, when he was a boy, he and another boy went to catch a horse in
a certain field, full of boulders and bushes of hazel and creeping juniper and rock-roses,
that is where the lake side is for a little clear of the woods. He said to the boy that was
with him, "I bet a button that if I fling a pebble on to that bush it will stay on it," meaning
that the bush was so matted the pebble would not be able to go through it. So he took up "a
pebble of cow-dung, and as soon as it hit the bush there came out of it the most beautiful
music that ever was heard." They ran away, and when they had gone about two hundred yards they
looked back and saw a woman dressed in white, walking round and round the bush. "First it had
the form of a woman, and then of a man, and it was going round the bush."

II

I often entangle myself in argument more complicated than even those paths of Inchy as to what
is the true nature of apparitions, but at other times I say as Socrates said when they told
him a learned opinion about a nymph of the Illissus, "The common opinion is enough for me."
I believe when I am in the mood that all nature is full of people whom we cannot see, and that
some of these are ugly or grotesque, and some wicked or foolish, but very many beautiful beyond
any one we have ever seen, and that these are not far away when we are walking in pleasant
and quiet places. Even when I was a boy I could never walk in a wood without feeling that at
any moment I might find before me somebody or something I had long looked for without knowing
what I looked for. And now I will at times explore every little nook of some poor coppice with
almost anxious footsteps, so deep a hold has this imagination upon me. You too meet with a
like imagination, doubtless, somewhere, wherever your ruling stars will have it, Saturn driving
you to the woods, or the Moon, it may be, to the edges of the sea. I will not of a certainty
believe that there is nothing in the sunset, where our forefathers imagined the dead following
their shepherd the sun, or nothing but some vague presence as little moving as nothing. If
beauty is not a gateway out of the net we were taken in at our birth, it will not long be beauty,
and we will find it better to sit at home by the fire and fatten a lazy body or to run hither
and thither in some foolish sport than to look at the finest show that light and shadow ever
made among green leaves. I say to myself, when I am well out of that thicket of argument, that
they are surely there, the divine people, for only we who have neither simplicity nor wisdom
have denied them, and the simple of all times and the wise men of ancient times have seen them
and even spoken to them. They live out their passionate lives not far off, as I think, and
we shall be among them when we die if we but keep our natures simple and passionate. May it
not even be that death shall unite us to all romance, and that some day we shall fight dragons
among blue hills, or come to that whereof all romance is but

    Foreshadowings mingled with the images
    Of man's misdeeds in greater days than these,

as the old men thought in The Earthly Paradise when they were in good spirits.

1902

MIRACULOUS CREATURES

There are marten cats and badgers and foxes in the Enchanted Woods, but there are of a certainty
mightier creatures, and the lake hides what neither net nor fine can take. These creatures
are of the race of the white stag that flits in and out of the tales of Arthur, and of the
evil pig that slew Diarmuid where Ben Bulben mixes with the sea wind. They are the wizard creatures
of hope and fear, they are of them that fly and of them that follow among the thickets that
are about the Gates of Death. A man I know remembers that his father was one night in the wood
Of Inchy, "where the lads of Gort used to be stealing rods. He was sitting by the wall, and
the dog beside him, and he heard something come running from Owbawn Weir, and he could see
nothing, but the sound of its feet on the ground was like the sound of the feet of a deer.
And when it passed him, the dog got between him and the wall and scratched at it there as if
it was afraid, but still he could see nothing but only hear the sound of hoofs. So when it
was passed he turned and came away home. Another time," the man says, "my father told me he
was in a boat out on the lake with two or three men from Gort, and one of them had an eel-spear,
and he thrust it into the water, and it hit something, and the man fainted and they had to
carry him out of the boat to land, and when he came to himself he said that what he struck
was like a calf, but whatever it was, it was not fish!" A friend of mine is convinced that
these terrible creatures, so common in lakes, were set there in old times by subtle enchanters
to watch over the gates of wisdom. He thinks that if we sent our spirits down into the water
we would make them of one substance with strange moods Of ecstasy and power, and go out it
may be to the conquest of the world. We would, however, he believes, have first to outface
and perhaps overthrow strange images full of a more powerful life than if they were really
alive. It may be that we shall look at them without fear when we have endured the last adventure,
that is death.

1902.

ARISTOTLE OF THE BOOKS

The friend who can get the wood-cutter to talk more readily than he will to anybody else went
lately to see his old wife. She lives in a cottage not far from the edge of the woods, and
is as full of old talk as her husband. This time she began to talk of Goban, the legendary
mason, and his wisdom, but said presently, "Aristotle of the Books, too, was very wise, and
he had a great deal of experience, but did not the bees get the better of him in the end? He
wanted to know how they packed the comb, and he wasted the better part of a fortnight watching
them, and he could not see them doing it. Then he made a hive with a glass cover on it and
put it over them, and he thought to see. But when he went and put his eyes to the glass, they
had it all covered with wax so that it was as black as the pot; and he was as blind as before.
He said he was never rightly kilt till then. They had him that time surely!"

1902.

THE SWINE OF THE GODS

A few years ago a friend of mine told me of something that happened to him when he was a. young
man and out drilling with some Connaught Fenians. They were but a car-full, and drove along
a hillside until they came to a quiet place. They left the car and went further up the hill
with their rifles, and drilled for a while. As they were coming down again they saw a very
thin, long-legged pig of the old Irish sort, and the pig began to follow them. One of them
cried out as a joke that it was a fairy pig, and they all began to run to keep up the joke.
The pig ran too, and presently, how nobody knew, this mock terror became real terror, and they
ran as for their lives. When they got to the car they made the horse gallop as fast as possible,
but the pig still followed. Then one of them put up his rifle to fire, but when he looked along
the barrel he could see nothing. Presently they turned a corner and came to a village. They
told the people of the village what had happened, and the people of the village took pitchforks
and spades and the like, and went along the road with them to drive the pig away. When they
turned the comer they could not find anything.

1902.

A VOICE

