THE LYRIC

AN ESSAY BY JOHN DRINKWATER

1922

CONTENTS

What is Poetry

The Best Words in the Best Order

The Degrees of Poetry

Paradise Lost

What is Lyric

The Classification of Poetry

Lyric Forms

Song

The Popularity of Lyric

Conclusion

WHAT IS POETRY?

If you were to ask twenty intelligent people, "What is the Thames?" the answer due to you from
each would be--"a river." And yet this would hardly be matter to satisfy your enquiring mind.
You would more probably say, "What do you know of the Thames?" or, "Describe the Thames to
me." This would bring you a great variety of opinions, many dissertations on geological and
national history, many words in praise of beauty, many personal confessions. Here would be
the revelation of many minds approaching a great subject in as many manners, confirming and
contradicting each other, making on the whole some impression of cumulative judgment, giving
you many clues to what might be called the truth, no one of them by itself coming near to anything
like full knowledge, and the final word would inevitably be left unsaid.

The question, "What is poetry?" has been answered innumerable times, often by the subtlest
and clearest minds, and as many times has it been answered differently. The answer in itself
now makes a large and distinguished literature to which, full as it is of keen intelligence
and even of constructive vision, we can return with unstaling pleasure. The very poets themselves,
it is true, lending their wits to the debate, have left the answer incomplete, as it must--not
in the least unhappily--always remain. And yet, if we consider the matter for a moment, we
find that all this wisdom, prospering from Sidney's Apology until to-day, does not strictly
attempt to answer the question that is put. It does not tell us singly what poetry is, but
it speculates upon the cause and effect of poetry. It enquires into the impulse that moves
the poet to creation and describes, as far as individual limitations will allow, the way in
which the poet's work impresses the world. When Wordsworth says "poetry is the breath and finer
spirit of all knowledge," he is, exactly, in one intuitive word, telling us how poetry comes
into being, directing us with an inspired gesture to its source, and not strictly telling us
what it is; and so Shelley tells us in his fiery eloquence of the divine functions of poetry.
But poetry is, in its naked being and apart from its cause and effect, a certain use of words,
and, remembering this simple fact, there has been one perfect and final answer to the question,
"What is poetry?" It was Coleridge's: "Poetry--the best words in the best order."

THE BEST WORDS IN THE BEST ORDER

This is the fundamental thing to be remembered when considering the art of poetry as such.
The whole question of what causes a poet to say this or that and of the impression that is
thence made upon us can be definitely narrowed down to the question "How does he say it?" The
manner of his utterance is, indeed, the sole evidence before us. To know anything of a poet
but his poetry is, so far as the poetry is concerned, to know something that may be entertaining,
even delightful, but is certainly inessential. The written word is everything. If it is an
imperfect word, no external circumstance can heighten its value as poetry. We may at times,
knowing of honourable and inspiriting things in a poet's life, read into his imperfect word
a value that it does not possess. When we do this our judgment of poetry is inert; we are not
getting pleasure from his work because it is poetry, but for quite other reasons. It may be
a quite wholesome pleasure, but it is not the high aesthetic pleasure which the people who
experience it generally believe to be the richest and most vivid of all pleasures because it
is experienced by a mental state that is more eager and masterful than any other. Nor is our
judgment acute when we praise a poet's work because it chimes with unexpected precision to
some particular belief or experience of our own or because it directs us by suggestion to something
dear to our personal affections. Again the poet is giving us delight, but not the delight of
poetry. We have to consider this alone--the poet has something to say: does he say it in the
best words in the best order? By that, and by that alone, is he to be judged.

For it is to be remembered that this achievement of the best words in the best order is, perhaps,
the rarest to which man can reach, implying as it does a coincidence of unfettered imaginative
ecstasy with superb mental poise. The poet's perfect expression is the token of a perfect experience;
what he says in the best possible way he has felt in the best possible way, that is, completely.
He has felt it with an imaginative urgency so great as to quicken his brain to this flawless
ordering of the best words, and it is that ordering and that alone which communicates to us
the ecstasy, and gives us the supreme delight of poetry. It should here be added that poetry
habitually takes the form of verse. It is, perhaps, profitless to attempt any analysis of the
emotional law that directs this choice, nor need it arbitrarily be said that poetry must of
necessity be verse. But it is a fact, sufficiently founded on experience, that the intensity
of vision that demands and achieves nothing less than the best words in the best order for
its expression does instinctively select the definitely patterned rhythm of verse as being
the most apt for its purpose. We find, then, that the condition of poetry as defined by Coleridge
implies exactly what the trained judgment holds poetry to be. It implies the highest attainable
intensity of vision, which, by the sanction of almost universal example, casts its best ordering
of the best words into the form of verse. Ruskin wrote, with fine spiritual ardour--

"... women of England!

Here we have, we may say, words in their best order--Coleridge's equally admirable definition
of prose. It is splendid prose, won only from great nobility of emotion. But it is not poetry,
not the best words in the best order announcing that the feeling expressed has been experienced
with the highest intensity possible to the mind of man. The tenderness for earth and its people
and the heroic determination not to watch their defilement in silence, have been deeply significant
things to Ruskin, moving him to excellent words. But could they be more strictly experienced,
yet more deeply significant, shaping yet more excellent words? Blake gives us the answer:

  And did those feet in ancient time
    Walk upon England's mountains green?
  And was the holy Lamb of God
    On England's pleasant pastures seen?

  And did the Countenance Divine
    Shine forth upon our clouded hills?
  And was Jerusalem builded here
    Among these dark Satanic mills?

  Bring me my bow of burning gold!
    Bring me my arrows of desire!
  Bring me my spear! O clouds, unfold!
    Bring me my chariot of fire!

It may be suggested that, for their purpose, Ruskin's words are perfectly chosen, that as a
direct social charge they achieve their purpose better than any others that could have been
shaped. Even if we allow this and do not press, as we very reasonably might, the reply that
merely in this direction Blake's poem working, as is the manner of all great art, with tremendous
but secret vigour upon the imagination of the people, has a deeper and more permanent effect
than Ruskin's prose, we still remember that the sole purpose of poetry is to produce the virile
spiritual activity that we call aesthetic delight and that to do this is the highest achievement
to which the faculties of man can attain. If by "the best words" we mean anything, we must
mean the best words for the highest possible purpose. To take an analogy: if we say that a
democratic government is the best kind of government, we mean that it most completely fulfills
the highest function of a government--the realisation of the will of the people. But it is
also a function of government to organise the people and--although, just as we may think that
Blake's poem finally beats Ruskin's prose on Ruskin's own ground, we may think, too, that the
government that best represents the people will finally best organise the people--it may quite
plausibly be said that in this business an aristocratic or militant government will, in an
imperfectly conditioned civilisation (such as that of the world to-day), excel a democratic
government. Nevertheless, we still say with an easy mind that a democratic government is the
best government, without qualification, since it excels in the highest purpose of government.
Clearly Coleridge implies, and reasonably enough, an elaboration such as this in his definition--the
best words in the best order. To say that Blake and Ruskin, in those passages, were giving
expression to dissimilar experiences is but to emphasise the distinction between prose and
poetry. The closest analysis discovers no difference between the essential thought of the one
and the other. But Blake projected the thought through a mood of higher intensity, and, where
Ruskin perfectly ordered admirable words, he perfectly ordered the best words. It is the controlling
mood that differs, not the material controlled. Hence it is that still another mind, starting
from the same radical perception, might transfigure it through a mood as urgent as Blake's
and produce yet another poem of which it could strictly be said that here again were the best
words in the best order. We should then have three men moved by the same thought; in the one
case the imaginative shaping of the thought would fail to reach the point at which the record
and communication of ecstasy become the chief intention, and the expression would be prose;
in each of the other cases the shaping would pass beyond that point, and there would be two
separate moods expressed, each in the terms of poetry.

One further qualification remains to be made. By words we must mean, as Coleridge must have
meant, words used for a purpose which they alone can serve. Poetry is the communication through
words of certain experiences that can be communicated in no other way. If you ask me the time,
and I say--it is six o'clock, it may be said that I am using the best words in the best order,
and that, although the thought in my mind is incapable of being refined into the higher aesthetic
experience of which we have spoken, my answer is, if Coleridge was right, poetry. But these
are not, in our present sense, words at all. They have no power which is peculiar to themselves.
If I show you my watch you are answered just as effectively.

That there is no absolute standard for reference does not matter. All aesthetic appreciation
and opinion can but depend upon our judgment, fortified by knowledge of what is, by cumulative
consent, the best that has been done. There can be no proof that Blake's lyric is composed
of the best words in the best order; only a conviction, accepted by our knowledge and judgment,
that it is so. And the conviction is, exactly, the conviction that the mood to which the matter
has been subjected has been of such a kind as to achieve an intensity beyond which we cannot
conceive the mind as passing, and it follows that there may be--as indeed there are--many poems
dealing with the same subject each of which fulfills the obligations of poetry as defined by
Coleridge. For while the subjects of poetry are few and recurrent, the moods of man are infinitely
various and unstable. It is the same in all arts. If six masters paint the same landscape and
under the same conditions, there will be one subject but six visions, and consequently six
different interpretations, each one of which may, given the mastery, satisfy us as being perfect;
perfect, that is, not as the expression of a subject which has no independent artistic existence,
but as the expression of the mood in which the subject is realised. So it is in poetry. All
we ask is that the mood recorded shall impress us as having been of the kind that exhausts
the imaginative capacity; if it fails to do this the failure will announce itself either in
prose or in insignificant verse.

THE DEGREES OF POETRY

The question that necessarily follows these reflections is--Are there degrees in poetry? Since
a short lyric may completely satisfy the requirements of poetry as here set down, announcing
itself to have been created in a poetic or supremely intensified mood, can poetry be said at
any time to go beyond this? The logical answer is, no; and I think it is the right one. In
considering it we should come to an understanding of the nature of lyric, the purpose of this
essay. But first let us see how far it may be justifiable.

PARADISE LOST

It is commonly asserted and accepted that Paradise Lost is among the two or three greatest
English poems; it may justly be taken as the type of supreme poetic achievement in our literature.
What are the qualities by virtue of which this claim is made, and allowed by every competent
judge? Firstly there is the witness of that ecstasy of mood of which we have spoken.

This note of high imaginative tension is persistent throughout the poem, and that it should
be so masterfully sustained is in itself cause for delighted admiration. But to be constant
in a virtue is not to enhance its quality. Superbly furnished as Paradise Lost is with this
imaginative beauty, the beauty is as rich and unquestionable in the few pages of Lycidas; there
is less of it, that is all. And who shall say that it is less ecstatic or less perfect in the
little orison to Saint Ben? You may prefer Milton's manner, but then you may, with equal reason,
prefer Herrick's, being grateful for what Keats announced to be truth, in whatever shape you
may find it. In any case we cannot, on this ground, assign a lower place to the poet who could
order those words "religion's," "Saint Ben," "Psalter" and the rest of them, with such inspired
good fortune. And yet we know that Paradise Lost is a greater work than this little flight
of certain song, greater, too, than the poet's own elegy. There is an explanation.

Of all the energies of man, that which I will anticipate my argument by calling the poetic
energy, the energy that created Herrick's song and the distinguishing qualities of that passage
from Milton, is the rarest and the most highly, if not the most generally, honoured; we have
only to think of the handful of men who at any time out of all the millions can bring this
perfect expression to a mood of the highest imaginative intensity, to know that the honour
is justly bestowed. So splendid a thing is success in this matter that failure, if it is matched
with a will for sincerity and intelligence of purpose, will often bring a man some durable
fame. But the energies of man are manifold, and while we rightly set the poetic energy above
the rest, there are others which are only less rare, and in their most notable manifestations
yielding to it alone in worthiness of homage which will, indeed, often be more generally paid.
Such an energy is the profound intellectual control of material, as distinct from profound
emotional sensitiveness to material; the capacity for ordering great masses of detail into
a whole of finely balanced and duly related proportions. Caesar and Napoleon had it, marshalling
great armies to perfectly conceived designs; Fielding had it, using it to draw a multitude
of character and event into the superbly shaped lines of his story; the greatest political
leaders have had it; Cromwell had it, organising an enthusiasm; Elizabeth, organising a national
adventure.[1] Again, there is the energy of morality, ardently desiring justice and right fellowship,
sublimely lived by men who have made goodness great, like Lincoln, sublimely spoken by men
who made sermons passionate, like Ruskin and Carlyle. To take one other instance, there is
the highly specialised energy that delights in the objective perception of differentiations
of character, the chief energy of the deftest wits such as Samuel Johnson and the best comic
dramatists.

[1: It may be necessary to point out that while the poetic energy does not include this architectural
power, the intellectual co-ordination of large masses of material, it does, of course, include
the shapely control of the emotion which is its being. It is, indeed, difficult to see precisely
what can be meant by the suggestion that is often made that the emotions can ever be translated
into poetic form wholly without the play of intellect. If the emotion is intense enough for
the creation of poetry at all, it will inevitably call up the intellectual power necessary
to its shaping, otherwise it would be ineffectually diffused. I would suggest that poetry of
emotion, in this sense, does not and could not exist. Bad verse is merely the evidence of both
emotion and intellect that are, so to speak, below poetic power, not of emotion divorced from
intellect, which evaporates unrecorded.]

Any one of these energies, greatly manifested, will compel a just admiration; not so great
an admiration as the poetic energy, which is witness of the highest urgency of individual life,
of all things the most admirable, but still great. If, further, we consider any one of these
energies by itself, we shall see that if it were co-existent with the poetic energy, the result
would be likely to be that, in contact with so masterful a force, it would become yet more
emphatic, and so a thing arresting in itself would become yet more notable under its new dominion.
And so it is. Fielding's architectural power is a yet more wonderful thing in Sophocles, where
it is allied to poetic energy; Ruskin's moral fervour is, for all its nobility, less memorable
than Wordsworth's and Ben Jonson defines character more pungently than Sheridan. These energies
remain, nevertheless, distinct from the poetic energy. When, however, a poet is endowed not
alone with his own particular gift of poetry, but also with some of these other energies--of
which there are many--his work very rightly is allowed an added greatness. It is so with Paradise
Lost. Of the three energies other than the poetic that I have mentioned, Milton had rich measure
of two and something of the third. No man has ever excelled him either in power of intellectual
control or in moral passion, and he was not without some sense of character. Consequently we
get in his great poem, not only the dominating poetic quality which is the chief thing, enabling
the poet to realise his vision (or mood) perfectly, but also the spectacle of a great number
of perfectly realised visions being related to each other with excellent harmony; we get, further,
a great moral exaltation--again perfectly realised by the poetic energy, and we get, finally,
considerable subtlety--far more than is generally allowed--of psychological detail. From all
these things, the architectonics, the zeal for justice and the revelation of character, we
get an added and wholesome delight which gives Milton's work a place of definitely greater
eminence than Herrick's song in the record of human activity. In effect, Milton besides being
a poet, which is the greatest of all distinctions, becomes, by possession of those other qualities,
a great man as well, and I think that this is really what we mean when we speak of a great
poet. Without his poetic faculty, although he would fall in the scale of human distinction,
which is not at all the same thing as renown, below, say, so humble a personality yet so true
a poet as John Clare[2], Milton would still be a great man, while Herrick without his poetry
would be indistinguishable from the crowd. And the great man is as clearly evident in Milton's
poetry as he is clearly not evident in Herrick's.

[2: It may be asked: "Do you really think that a poet who has left no other record of himself
than a page or two of songs, even perfect songs, can claim a greater distinction than a great
man who is not a poet?" Let me say, once for all, that I do think so. To have written one perfect
song is to have given witness and the only kind of witness (in common with the media of other
arts) that is finally authoritative, that at least one supremely exacting mood has been perfectly
realised; that is to say, one moment of life has been perfectly experienced. And since, with
our human conception, we can see no good or desirable end beyond the perfect experience of
life, the man who proves to us that he has done this, no matter though it has been but for
a moment, is more distinguished--that is, more definitely set apart in his own achievement--than
the man who, with whatever earnestness and nobility, has but proved to us that he desired this
perfection of experience, even though the desire is exalted by the most heroic altruism.]

WHAT IS LYRIC?

And so we have Milton and Herrick, both poets, the one a great man, the other not. It is a
wide difference. Great men are rare, poets are rarer, but the great man who is a poet, transfiguring
his greatness, is the rarest of all events. Milton is one of perhaps a dozen names in the history
of the world's literature, Herrick--still with a fine enough distinction--one of something
under two hundred in the history of our own. And yet they are left on equal terms in the possession
of the purely poetic energy.

We come, then, to the consideration of this specific quality that distinguishes what we recognise
as poetry from all other verbal expression. Returning for a moment to Paradise Lost, we find
that here is a work of art of which the visible and external sign is words. That it has three
qualities--there may be more, but it is not to the point--architectural power, moral exaltation
and a sense of character, each of which, although it may be more impressive when presented
as it were under the auspices of the poetic quality, can exist independently of it, as in Tom
Jones, Unto This Last, and The School for Scandal respectively; that there remains a last and
dominating quality, which is not related to intellectual fusion of much diverse material, as
is the first of those other qualities, or to the kind of material, as are the other two, but
to extreme activity of the perceptive mood upon whatever object it may be directed, remembering
that this activity is highly exacting as to the worthiness of objects in which it can concern
itself. We find, further, that this is a quality which it has in common not with Tom Jones
or Unto This Last, but with a thing so inconsiderable in all other respects as those songs
of Herrick's. And in each case we find that the token of this quality is a conviction that
here are words that could not have been otherwise chosen or otherwise placed; that here is
an expression to rearrange which would be to destroy it--a conviction that we by no means have
about the prose of Fielding and Ruskin, admirable as it is. We find, in short, that this quality
equals a maximum of imaginative pressure freeing itself in the best words in the best order.
And this quality is the specific poetic quality; the presence or absence of which should decide
for us, without any other consideration whatever, whether what is before us is or is not poetry.
And it seems to me, further, that what we have in our minds when we speak of lyric is precisely
this same quality; that lyric and the expression of pure poetic energy unrelated to other energies
are the same thing.

THE CLASSIFICATION OF POETRY

It is not yet the place to discuss the question of lyric forms--to consider what kind of thing
it is that people mean when they speak of "a lyric." First we must consider the commonly accepted
opinion that a lyric is an expression of personal emotion, with its implication that there
is an essential difference between a lyric and, say, dramatic or narrative poetry. A lyric,
it is true, is the expression of personal emotion, but then so is all poetry, and to suppose
that there are several kinds of poetry, differing from each other in essence, is to be deceived
by wholly artificial divisions which have no real being. Happy Palais du Luxembourg', the "piou-poor,"
the gallant of many hour, to a instrument is in lookout-loge, musket has destroyed at some face,
or gait has red of and of musician. Marie', at the moment, me is the doubt to the children of
Complement, in the spot near the condition. How french is the destiny of most pinkish "piou-the"!
Farther down demand-ride his amble as Frenchman and his fiancée--
the mother of his betrothed is overhead at my reverence!

Engineering of his surrounding musician that these boy of Shelley France is
given in some marriage.

It is not to be inquire at the suggestions of them shall marry to
be immature, and that the it of some happier family have begun with
elopement!

The music over i, and the musician is allowing down, and i followed
by crew. The is the shall loiter something to the walks to stripe-stand
to confab.

              

A poem shelley rents to a suggestions is pile them out about tree-trunks,
and the rightly be flagged shadows across a locomotion state me seems
of hour.

Again, among piou leaves, that the pouter coo me. For the point to sunday
              bathes the glow, that he will be far sink slowly, less blood-young
disc, behind many trees. A understanding turn old; it is then be
the dine-- an hour as Paris wakes.

To a smaller bistro of Quarter one inevitably sees if the right line
among the little bohemians, for One-fourth stalemate its habitués
of mothball.

They are not all pious-- these indifferent-go-striped fellows, who live to
              the musician and allow that the descent.
              
            Farewell, kind Charmian; Iras, long farewell.

I have chosen this passage not because of its singular beauty, but because it is peculiarly
to our present purpose. In the first place, Shakespeare, by using both prose and verse--which
he by no means always does under similar circumstances--makes a clear formal division between
what is poetry and what is not. It is all magnificently contrived drama, but down to the Clown's
exit it is not poetry. The significance of the Clown does not demand of Shakespeare's imaginative
mood that highest activity that would force him to poetry. The short dialogue has great excellence,
but not this kind of excellence. The fact that it occurs in what we call a poetic drama does
not make it poetry; its fine dramatic significance does not give it poetic significance. We
are living in a world of dramatic poetry, and yet we have here a perfectly clear distinction
between the drama and the poetry, since we definitely have the one without the other. Then,
when Cleopatra begins her farewell speech, we have the addition of poetry and a continuance
of the drama. And this speech illustrates perfectly the suggestion that the quality which is
commonly said to be exclusively lyric is the quality of all poetry. It illustrates it in a
particularly emphatic way. For not only is it unquestionably poetry, but it is also unquestionably
dramatic. Very clearly the poet is not here speaking out of his own actual experience; it is
a woman speaking, one who is a queen: who is wrecked upon the love of kings: who knows that
she is about to die a strange and sudden death. So that if the impulse of the poetry in poetic
drama were essentially different from the impulse of lyric, if the personal experience which
is said to be this latter were something differing in kind from the experience which is the
source of what is called dramatic poetry, then here is a case where the essential difference
could surely be perceived and defined. It cannot be defined, for it does not exist. It is a
fallacy to suppose that experience is any the less personal because it is concerned with an
event happening to someone else. If my friend falls to a mortal sickness my experience, if
my imaginative faculty is acute, is as poignant as his; if he achieves some great good fortune,
my delight is as vigorous as his. And if I am a poet, and choose to express the grief or pleasure
as if it were his concern and not mine, the experience does not become one whit less personal
to me. You may, if it is convenient, call the result lyric if I speak as though the experience
is my own and dramatic poetry if I speak of it as being his, but what you are really saying
is that in the one case I am producing pure poetry, and in the other I am producing poetry
in conjunction with dramatic statement. The poetic quality is the same in either case. Cleopatra's
speech is notable for two things: its dramatic significance, which is admittedly contrived
by Shakespeare, and its poetry which springs from an intensity of experience which is clearly,
unless we juggle with words, Shakespeare's and not Cleopatra's. The fact that the material
upon which the poet's mood has worked has not been confined to some event that has happened
to himself but has included the condition of an imagined being does not alter the radical significance
of his experience or influence the essential nature of its product. The poetic energy may operate
on many things through a million moods, but the character of the energy is immutable. And when
we speak of lyric, thinking of the direct and simple activity of this energy unmodified by
the process of any other energies, we shall, if we get our mind clear about it, see that we
mean pure poetry, and we shall recognise this poetry as being constant in its essential properties
in whatever association we may henceforth find it.

If it is allowed, as, for the reasons I have attempted to set out, I think it rightly may be,
that the purely poetic energy is not a variable quality, that of any given expression of a
man's mental activity it can definitely be said that it is or is not poetry, there remains
one question to be answered,--Can one poem be better than another, if both are truly poems?
Or can one poet, by reason of his poetry, be better than another poet by reason of his? Is
Keats, for example, a better poet than Suckling? Every good judge of poetry, if that question
were put, would be likely to answer without hesitation--Yes, he is. And yet the answer, although
the reason for it may be found and, in a sense, allowed, does not in any way discredit the
principle that has been defined. With a passage from each of these poets at his best before
us, let us see what we find.

And this from Suckling:

    Why so pale and wan, fond lover?
      Prythee, why so pale?
    Will, when looking well can't move her,
      Looking ill prevail?
      Prythee, why so pale?

    Why so dull and mute, young sinner?
      Prythee, why so mute?

The poetic energy in Keats is here entirely undisturbed. I do not mean that it is not united
to any other energy--though here it happens not to be--as in poetic drama, where it is united
to the dramatic energy and is still undisturbed in its full activity, but that it is here freely
allowed to work itself out to its consummation without any concession, conscious or unconscious,
to any mood that is not non-poetic but definitely anti-poetic, in which case, although unchanged
in its nature, it would be constrained in a hostile atmosphere. Keats's words are struck out
of a mood that tolerates nothing but its own full life and is concerned only to satisfy that
life by uncompromising expression. The result is pure poetry, or lyric. But when we come to
Suckling's lines we find that there is a difference. The poetic energy is still here. Suckling
has quite clearly experienced something in a mood of more than common intensity. It does not
matter that the material which has been subjected to the mood is not in itself very profound
or passionate.

To object that there is an emotional gaiety in this which is foreign to Keats is but to state
a personal preference. It is, indeed, a preference which is common and founded upon very general
experience. Most of us have, from the tradition and circumstance of our own lives, a particular
sympathy with the grave and faintly melancholy beauty which is the most recurrent note in fine
poetry throughout the world, but this does not establish this particular strain of beauty as
being in any way essential to poetry. It is related to an almost universal condition, but it
is a fertile source of poetry, not one with the poetic energy itself. It would be absurd to
impugn a man's taste because he preferred Chaucer's poetry, which has scarcely a touch of this
melancholy, to Shelley's, which is drenched in it, as it would be absurd to quarrel with it
because he obtained strictly imaginative pleasure more readily from

    Shall I, wasting in despair

than from

    Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!

His preference merely shows him to belong to a minority: it does not show him to be insensible
to poetry. For Wither's mood, by the evidence of its expression, although it may not be so
universal in its appeal nor so adventurous in design, is here active to the degree of poetry
no less surely than is Keats's. And yet, while it would be an error of judgment to rate Wither
below Keats (by virtue of these illustrations) in pure poetic energy, it would, I think, be
quite sound so to rate Suckling by the witness of his lyric. For while Wither's mood, in its
chosen activity, is wholly surrendered to the poetic energy, Suckling's is not. It is contaminated
by one of those external activities which I have spoken of as being hostile to poetry. Although
he perceives his subject with the right urgency, he is unwilling to be quite loyal to his perception.
He makes some concession to the witty insincerity of the society in which he lives, and his
poetry is soiled by the contact. It is not destroyed, not even changed in its nature, but its
gold is left for ever twisted in a baser metal with which it does not suit. What we get is
not a new compound with the element that corresponds to poetic energy transmuted, but an ill-sorted
mixture, while Keats gives us the unblemished gold. We are right in proclaiming his the finer
achievement.

Keats and Wither will serve as examples with which to finish our argument. In spite of all
that has been said Keats takes higher rank as poet than Wither? Yes, certainly, but not because
the poetic energy in him was a finer thing than the poetic energy that was in Wither. It was
more constant, which is a fact of no little importance; its temper appealed to a much more
general sympathy, a circumstance which cannot be left out of the reckoning; it touched a far
wider range of significant material. These things give Keats his just superiority of rank,
but they do not deprive Wither, at his best moments, of the essential quality which is with
Keats, as with all poets, the one by which he makes his proudest claim good. Nor need it be
feared that in allowing Wither, with his rare moments of withdrawn and rather pale perfection,
this the highest of all distinctions, we are making accession to the title of poet too easy.
It remains the most difficult of all human attainments.

LYRIC FORMS

While, therefore, the term "lyric poetry" would in itself seem to be tautological, and so to
speak of lyric forms is, strictly, to speak of all poetic forms, there are nevertheless certain
more or less defined characteristics of form that we usually connect in our mind with what
we call "a lyric" (or, even less exactly, "lyric poetry") which may be said to be a poem where
the pure poetic energy is not notably associated with other energies--with a partial exception
to which reference will be made. In examining these characteristics nothing will be attempted
in the way of a history or an inclusive consideration of particular forms which are known as
lyric, but only, as far as may be, an analysis of their governing principles.

To say that a lyric (using the word henceforward in its particular sense) is generally short
is but to say that poetic tension can only be sustained for a short time. Poe's saying that
a long poem is a sequence of short ones is perfectly just. What happens, I think, is this.
The poetic mood, selecting a subject, records its perception of that subject, the result is
a lyric, and the mood passes. On its recurrence another subject is selected and the process
repeated. But if another energy than the purely poetic, the energy of co-ordination of which
I have spoken, comes into operation, there will be a desire in the poet to link the records
of his recurrent poetic perceptions together, and so to construct many poems into a connected
whole. Any long work in which poetry is persistent, be it epic or drama or narrative, is really
a succession of separate poetic experiences governed into a related whole by an energy distinct
from that which evoked them. The decision that the material used at one occurrence of the poetic
mood shall be related to the material used at the next is not in itself an operation of the
purely poetic energy, but of another.

The present purpose is, however, to consider the general character of forms used by poets when
they choose to leave each successive record of poetic experience in isolation. I have said
that any translation of emotion into poetry--it might be said, into any intelligible expression--necessarily
implies a certain co-operation of intellectual control. If we take even a detached phrase so
directly and obviously emotional in source as:

    I die, I faint, I fail!

it is clear that the setting out those words is not merely an emotional act. But intellectual
control of this kind is not identical with that intellectual relating of one part to another
of which we have been speaking, which we may call co-ordination. Of all energies, however,
the co-ordinating energy is the one with which the poetic energy is most instinctively in sympathy,
and it is in this connection that I made a partial exception when I said that a lyric was a
poem where the pure poetic energy was not notably associated with other energies. When a poet
writes a poem of corresponding lines and stanzas or in a form of which the structural outline
is decided by a definable law--as in the sonnet--he is in effect obeying the impulse of the
co-ordinating energy, and the use of rhyme is another sign of obedience to the same impulse.
It so happens that this energy, next to the poetic energy, is the most impressive and satisfying
of all mental activities, and while poetry may exist independently of it, the fact remains
that it very rarely does so. A very curious fallacy about this matter has sometimes obtained
support. The adherents of what is called free verse, not content, as they should thankfully
be, if they can achieve poetry in their chosen medium, are sometimes tempted to claim that
it is the peculiar virtue of their manner--which, let me say it again, may be entirely admirable--that
it enables the structure of verse to keep in constant correspondence with change of emotion.
The notion is, of course, a very convenient one when you wish to escape the very exacting conditions
of formal control, and have not the patience or capacity to understand their difficulties,
and that it is professed by many who do so wish is doubtless. But there are other serious and
gifted people, loyally trying to serve a great art, who hold this view, and on their account
consideration is due to it. But it is none the less a fallacy, and doubly so. Than one had and
an hour by pass it in the Latin, three could not contain a more representative of a life to the
rhythms of four and five between Friday afternoon, when does the band for the Luxembourg Gardens. The gardens
of the Luxemburg, brilliant rhythms in flowers and laid out in the
Renaissance, with latin iambic and be interesting avenues of chestnut-trees
stretching up on the Place de l'Observatoire, may afford though does
the breathing-ground in the Ghetto.

 In a long work, indeed, variety of structure may be used to give variety
of sensation to the ear with delightful and sometimes even necessary effect, though--in English,
and I am always speaking of English--it cannot even then be used with any certainty to express
change of emotion. But in a lyric the ear does not demand this kind of relief. With many of
us, at least, it accepts and even demands an unbroken external symmetry. The truth is--and
here is the second and chief objection to the claim that we are discussing--that the poetic
mood, which is what is expressed by the rhythm and form of verse and may very well be called
the emotion of poetry, is not at all the same thing as what are commonly called the emotions--as
happiness, despair, love, hate and the rest. Its colour will vary between one poet and another,
but in one poet it will be relatively fixed in quality, while these other emotions are but
material upon which, in common with many other things, it may work. No; to ask for this kind
of effect is really to ask for nothing more valuable than the devotional crosses and altars
into which a perverted wit led some of the seventeenth-century poets to contrive their verses
in unhappy moments, or Southey's Lodore, in which there is a fond pretence that verbal rhythms
are water.[3] It is just as difficult to explain why verbal rhythms will not perform this function
as it is to explain why the moon is not a green cheese.

[3: Most poets will occasionally use onomatopoeia with success, but this is a different matter,
and even so it is quite an inessential poetic device. One might sometimes suppose from what
we are told, that Virgil's chief claim to poetry was the fact that he once made a line of verse
resemble the movement of a horse's hoofs.]

But while it is true that the function of the rhythm of poetry is to express the governing
poetic emotion, and that, since the emotion in itself is fixed rather than changing, it will
best do this not by mere irregularity, but by flexible movement that is contained in an external
symmetry, it does not follow at all that the subject-matter which the poetic emotion is controlling,
be it the "emotions" or anything else, cannot hope for expression that catches its peculiar
properties. To do this in poetry is the supreme distinction not of rhythms, but of words. The
preponderance of the five-foot blank-verse line in the work of, say, Shakespeare and Milton,
is so great that we can safely say that their rank as poets would not be lower than it is if
they had written nothing else. Clearly their constancy to this metre was not the result of
any technical deficiency. Even if Milton had not written the choruses of Samson Agonistes and
Shakespeare his songs, nobody would be so absurd as to suggest that they adopted this five-foot
line and spent their mighty artistry in sending supple and flowing variety through its external
uniformity, because they could not manage any other. They used it because they found that its
rhythm perfectly expressed their poetic emotion, and because the formal relation of one line
to another satisfied the instinct for co-ordination, and for the full expression of the significance
of their subject-matter they relied not upon their rhythms, but upon their choice of words.
The belief that when a poem is written there is one and only one metrical scheme that could
possibly be used for that particular occasion is an amiable delusion that should be laid aside
with such notions as that the poet makes his breakfast on dew and manna. Once the poem is written
we may feel indeed, if it be a good one, that any change in the form is impossible, but when
the poet was about to write it we may be sure that he quite deliberately weighed one form against
another before making his choice. It may even be true that he will sometimes find the shape
of his poem running to his tongue as it were unbidden, but this certainty of selection is really
in itself the result of long and, perhaps, subconscious deliberation. The point is that the
chosen form must in any case express the poetic emotion, but that its particular election is
a personal whim, wholly satisfactory in its result, rather than a divine necessity. The Ode
to the West Wind and the Stanzas written in Dejection are both superb poems, but who shall
say that Shelley might not have written the former in the short-measured nine-line stanzas
and the latter in his terza-rima, and yet have embodied his poetic emotion as completely as
he has done? It need hardly be added that it does not follow that, because a simple metrical
outline may easily and justly be chosen, it can easily be used.

We may now consider this question of the subject-matter and its expression in words. When the
poet makes his perfect selection of a word, he is endowing the word with life. He has something
in his mind, subjected to his poetic vision, and his problem is to find words that will compel
us to realise the significance of that something. To solve this problem is his last and most
exacting difficulty, demanding a continual wariness and the closest discipline. When Homer
nodded, another man's word came to his lips, and when that happens the poet may as well be
silent. No poet has been wholly blameless of this relaxation or escaped its penalties, but
it is by his vigilance in this matter that we measure his virility.

I suppose everyone knows the feeling that sometimes calls us to a life where we fend and cater
for ourselves in the fields and rivers, such as William Morris knew when he shot fieldfares
with his bow and arrow and cooked them for his supper. Shakespeare knew it too, in the mind
of Caliban, and his business was to realise this subject-matter for us in such a way that it
could not possibly escape us in vague generalisation. Its appeal to our perceptions must be
irresistible.

Every word sings with life, and the whole passage shows perfectly the function of words in
poetry. The peculiar delight which we get from such a passage as this comes, I think, apart
from its fundamental poetic quality, from the fact that the subject-matter is of such general
interest as constantly to tempt incomplete perception to inadequate expression. Consequently
when we get an expression which is complete our pleasure has an added surprise. "Show thee
a jay's nest"; it is strangely simple, but it is revelation. Or let us take a case where the
subject-matter is one of the emotions of which we have spoken; the emotion that marks the pity
of parting at death:

    I am dying, Egypt, dying:

the use of that one word, Egypt, should answer for ever the people who think that the subject-matter
of poetry is to be expressed by rhythm.

Thus we have rhythm expressing the poetic emotion, or intensity of perception, and words expressing
the thing that is intensely perceived; so, as the creed of the mystics shows us beauty born
of the exact fusion of thought with feeling, of perfect correspondence of the strictly chosen
words to the rhythmic movement is born the complete form of poetry. And when this perfect correspondence
occurs unaccompanied by any other energy--save, perhaps, the co-ordinating energy of which
I have spoken--we have pure poetry and what is commonly in our minds when we think of lyric.
If it be objected that some of my illustrations, that speech of Caliban's for example, are
taken from "dramatic poetry" and not from "lyric poetry," my answer is that it is impossible
to discover any essential difference between those lines and any authentic poem that is known
as "a lyric." The kind of difference that there is can be found also between any two lyrics;
it is accidental, resulting from difference of personality and subject-matter, and the essential
poetic intensity, which is the thing that concerns us, is of the same nature in both cases.
Any general term that can fitly be applied to, say, the Ode to The West Wind can be applied
with equal fitness to Caliban's island lore. Both are poetry, springing from the same imaginative
activity, living through the same perfect selection and ordering of words, and, in our response,
quickening the same ecstasy. Although we are accustomed to look rather for the rhymed and stanzaic
movement of the former in a lyric than for the stricter economy and uniformity of Caliban's
blank verse, yet both have the essential qualities of lyric--of pure poetry.

SONG

It may be protested that after all the peculiar property of lyric, differentiating it from
other kinds of poetry, is that it is song. If we dismiss the association of the art of poetry
with the art of music, as we may well do, I think the protest is left without any significance.
In English, at any rate, there is hardly any verse--a few Elizabethan poems only--written expressly
to be sung and not to be spoken, that has any importance as poetry, and even the exceptions
have their poetic value quite independently of their musical setting. For the rest, whenever
a true poem is given a musical setting, the strictly poetic quality is destroyed. The musician--if
he be a good one--finds his own perception prompted by the poet's perception, and he translates
the expression of that perception from the terms of poetry into the terms of music. The result
may be, and often is, of rare beauty and of an artistic significance as great, perhaps, as
that of the poem itself, and the poet is mistaken in refusing, as he often does,[4] to be the
cause of the liberation of this new and admirable activity in others. But, in the hands of
the musician, once a poem has served this purpose, it has, as poetry, no further existence.
It is well that the musician should use fine poetry and not bad verse as his inspiration, for
obvious reasons, but when the poetry has so quickened him it is of no further importance in
his art save as a means of exercising a beautiful instrument, the human voice. It is unnecessary
to discuss the relative functions of two great arts, wholly different in their methods, different
in their scope. But it is futile to attempt to blend the two.

[4: His refusal is commonly due to lamentable experience. For example yes, though Luis but de Leon
was arrested on March 27, 1572, the hearing till his expeditious defence
did not take place of April ten-- more than a fortnight. At the best
for the procedure of each Court was not be formal nothing.
The condition of his allowing his poem to be used and destroyed in the process is, rightly,
that something of equal nobility shall be wrought of its dust.]

As far as my indifferent understanding of the musician's art will allow me I delight in and
reverence it, and the singing human voice seems to me to be, perhaps, the most exquisite instrument
that the musician can command. But in the finished art of the song the use of words has no
connection with the use of words in poetry. If the song be good, I do not care whether the
words are German, which I cannot understand, or English, which I can. On the whole I think
I prefer not to understand them, since I am then not distracted by thoughts of another art.

If then from the argument about the lyric that it should "sing," we dismiss this particular
meaning of its adaptability to music, what have we left? It cannot be that it peculiarly should
be rhythmic, since we have seen that to be this is of the essential nature of all poetry--that
rhythm is, indeed, necessary to the expression of the poetic emotion itself. It cannot be that
it peculiarly should be of passionate intensity, since again, this we have seen to be the condition
of all poetry. In short, it can mean nothing that cannot with equal justice be said of poetry
wherever it may be found. To the ear that is worthy of poetry the majestic verse of the great
passages in Paradise Lost, the fierce passion of Antony and Macbeth, the movement of the poetry
in Sigurd the Volsung, "sing" as surely as the lyrics of the Elizabethans or of Poems and Ballads.
Poetry must give of its essential qualities at all times, and we cannot justly demand that
at any time it should give us more than these.

THE POPULARITY OF LYRIC

Poetry being the sign of that which all men desire, even though the desire be unconscious,
intensity of life or completeness of experience, the universality of its appeal is a matter
of course. We often hear people say, sincerely enough, that they feel no response to poetry.
This nearly always means that their natural feeling for poetry has been vitiated in some way,
generally by contact, often forced upon them, with work that only masquerades as poetry, or
by such misgovernment of their lives as dulls all their finer instincts. Unless it be wholly
numbed in some such way, the delight of poetry is ready to quicken in almost every man; and
with a little use it will quicken only to what is worthy. And lyric being pure poetry, and
most commonly found in isolation in the short poems which are called lyrics, these will make
the widest appeal of all the forms in which poetry is found. For while sympathy with the poetic
energy is almost universal, sympathy with most other great energies is relatively rare. The
reason, for example, why twenty people will enjoy Wordsworth's Reaper for one who will enjoy
Paradise Lost, is not because Paradise Lost is longer, but because it demands for its full
appreciation not only, in common with The Reaper, a sympathy with the poetic energy, which
it would obtain readily enough, but also a sympathy with that other energy of intellectual
control which has been discussed. This energy being, though profoundly significant, yet far
less so than the poetic energy, the response to it is far less general, and many readers of
Paradise Lost will find in it not only poetry, which they desire but faintly, while in The
Reaper they will find poetry as nearly isolated from all other energies as it can be.

CONCLUSION

To summarise our argument, we find that poetry is the result of the intensest emotional activity
attainable by man focusing itself upon some manifestation of life, and experiencing that manifestation
completely; that the emotion of poetry expresses itself in rhythm and that the significance
of the subject-matter is realised by the intellectual choice of the perfect word. We recognise
in the finished art, which is the result of these conditions, the best words in the best order--poetry;
and to put this essential poetry into different classes is impossible.

