Very shortly, evidences appear of our approach to a considerable place. In fact, we are nearing
Chicago. But long before we reach it, we pass a succession of pretty villas and country-houses,
quite in the English suburban style, with gardens, shrubberies, and hothouses. These are the
residences of the Chicago merchants. The houses become more numerous, and before long we are
crossing streets and thoroughfares, the engine snorting slowly along, and the great bell ringing
to warn all foot-passengers off the track.

What an immense smoky place we have entered: so different from the pure snow-white prairie
country we have passed. It looks just like another Manchester. But I suspect we have as yet
traversed only the manufacturing part of the city, as the only buildings heretofore visible
are small dwelling-houses and manufactories. At length we pull up in the station, and find
ourselves safely landed in Chicago.

Oh, the luxury of a good wash after a continuous journey of two thousand four hundred miles
by rail! What a blessing cold water is, did we but know it. The luxury, also, of taking off
one's clothes to sleep in a bed, after five nights' rolling about in railway cars,--that also
is a thing to be enjoyed once in a lifetime! But, for the sake of the pleasure, I confess I
have no particular desire to repeat the process.

And now for the wonders of Chicago. It is really a place worth going a long way to see. It
exhibits the enterprise of the American people in its most striking light. Such immense blocks
of buildings forming fine broad streets, such magnificent wharves and warehouses, such splendid
shops, such handsome churches, and such elegant public buildings! One can scarcely believe
that all this has been the work of little more than thirty years.

It is true, the situation of Chicago at the head of Lake Michigan, with a great fertile country
behind it, has done much for the place; but without the men, Chicago would have been nothing.
It is human industry and energy that have made it what it is. Nothing seems too bold or difficult
for the enterprise of Chicago men. One of their most daring but successful feats was in altering
the foundation level of the city. It was found that the business quarter was laid too low--that
it was damp, and could not be properly drained. It was determined to raise the whole quarter
bodily from six to eight feet higher! And the extraordinary feat was accomplished with the
help of screw-jacks, safely and satisfactorily.

With the growth of population--and its increase was most rapid (from 4000 persons in 1837 to
about 350,000 at the present time)--the difficulty of obtaining pure water steadily increased.
There was pure water enough in the lake outside, but along shore it was so polluted by the
sewage that it could not be used with safety. Two methods were adopted to remedy this evil.
One was, to make Artesian wells 700 feet deep, which yield about a million gallons of pure
water per day; but another, and much bolder scheme, was undertaken, that of carrying a tunnel
under the bed of the lake, two miles out, into perfectly pure water; and this work was successfully
accomplished and completed on the 25th of March, 1867, when the water was let into the tunnel
to flow through the pipes and quadrants of the city. Thus 57 million gallons of water per day
could be supplied to the inhabitants.

Another important and daring work was that involved in carrying the traffic of the streets
from one side of the Chicago river (which flows through the city) to the other, without the
interference of bridges. This was accomplished by means of tunnels constructed beneath the
bed of the river. The first tunnel was carried across from Washington Street to the other side
some years since; it was arched with brick, floored with timber, and lighted with gas. The
second, lower down the same river, was still in progress at the period of my visit to the city
in March last, and is not yet completed. By means of these tunnels the traffic of the streets
will be sufficiently accommodated, without any interruption by the traffic of the river,--large
ships proceeding directly up to the wharves above to load and unload their cargoes.

But the boldest project of all remains to be mentioned. It is neither more nor less than the
cutting down of the limestone ridge which intervenes between the head-waters of the River Chicago
and those of the River Illinois, which flows into the Mississippi. The water supply being still
found insufficient, the carrying out of a second tunnel into deep water under the bed of the
lake was projected. It then occurred to the Chicago engineers that a more simple method would
be, instead of going out into the lake for the pure water, to make the pure water come to them.
The sewage-laden stream of the Chicago river now flowed north into the lake; would it not be
practicable, by cutting down the level inland, to make it flow south, and thus bring the pure
water of the lake in an abundant stream past their very doors?

This scheme has actually been carried out! The work was in progress while I was there, and
I observe that it has since been completed. The limestone plateau to the south of Chicago has
been cut down at a cost of about three millions of dollars; and an abundant supply of pure
water has thus been secured to the town for ever. But the cutting of this artificial river
for the purpose of water supply has opened up another and a much larger question. It is, whether
by sufficiently deepening the bed, a channel may not be formed for large ocean-going ships,
so that Chicago may be placed in direct water communication with the Gulf of Mexico, as it
now is with the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Should this project, which was freely spoken of when
I was at Chicago, be carried out, it may lead to very important consequences. While it may
have the effect of greatly promoting the prosperity of Chicago, it may also have an altogether
different result. "The letting out of waters" is not always a safe thing; and the turning of
the stream, or any considerable part of the stream which now passes over the falls of Niagara,
into the bed of the Mississippi--whose swollen waters are sometimes found sufficiently unmanageable
as it is--might have a very extraordinary and even startling effect upon the low-lying regions
at the mouth of that great river. But this is a point that must be left for geologists and
engineers to speculate about and to settle.

Shortly after my arrival in Chicago, I went out for a wander in the streets. I was accompanied
by the Hotel "tout" who soon gave me his history. He had been a captain in the English army,
had run through all his money, and come here to make more. He had many reminiscences to relate
of his huntings in Leicestershire, of his life in the army, of his foolish gamblings, of his
ups and downs in America, and his present prospects. Nothing daunted by his mishaps, he was
still full of hope. He was an agent for railways, agent for a billiard-table manufacturer and
for several patents, and believed he should soon be a rich man again. But no one, he said,
had any chance in Chicago, unless he was prepared to work, and to work hard. "A man," he observed,
"must have his eyes peeled to make money; as for the lazy man, he hasn't the ghost of a chance
here."

My guide took me along the principal streets, which were full of traffic and bustle, the men
evidently intent upon business, pushing on, looking neither to the right hand nor the left.
The streets are mostly stone-paved, and, in spite of the heavy snow which has fallen, they
are clean and well kept. We passed the City Hall, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Post Office--all
fine buildings. In the principal streets, the houses are five stories high, with handsome marble
fronts. The office of the 'Chicago Tribune,' situated at the corner of one of the chief thoroughfares,
is a splendid pile with a spacious corner entrance. The Potter Palmer block, chiefly occupied
as a gigantic draper's shop--here called a Dry Goods' Store--is an immense pile of buildings,
with massive marble front handsomely carved. But the building which promises shortly to overtop
all others in Chicago, is the Pacific Hotel, now in course of erection,--an enormous structure,
covering an acre and a half of ground, with a frontage of 325 feet, and a height of 104 feet.
It is expected to be the largest and finest building in the city, until something else is projected
to surpass and excel it.

In my progress through the streets I came upon two huge steam cranes at work, hoisting up stuff
from a great depth below. I was told that this was the second tunnel in course of construction
underneath the bed of the river to enable the traffic to pass across without the necessity
for bridges. The stream over the tunnel was busy with shipping. In one street I passed a huge
pile of dead pigs in front of a sausage shop. They go in pigs and come out sausages. Pork is
one of the great staples of the place; the number of pigs slaughtered in Chicago being something
enormous. The pig-butcheries and pork stores are among the largest buildings in the city. My
guide assures me that at least a pig a second is killed and dressed in Chicago all the year
through. Another street was occupied by large stores of grain, fruit, and produce of all kinds.
The pathways were filled with farmers and grain brokers, settling bargains and doing business.
And yet it was not market day, when the streets are far more crowded and full of bustle.

Some idea of the enormous amount of business in grain done in Chicago may be formed from the
fact that in one year, 1868, sixty-eight million bushels of grain were shipped from its wharves.
It is the centre of the grain trade of the States; lines of railway concentre upon it from
all parts of the interior; and, by means of shipping, the produce is exported to the Eastern
States, to Great Britain, or to any other part of the world where it is needed.

The street cars go jingling along with their heavy loads of passengers. A continual stream
of people keeps coming and going. There are many young ladies afoot, doing their shopping;
enveloped in furs, and some with white scarfs--or "clouds" as they are called--round their
heads. Loud advertisements, of all colours, shapes, and sizes, abound on every side. Pea-nut
sellers at their stands on the pavement invite the passers-by to purchase, announcing that
they roast fresh every half-hour. What amused me, in one of the by-streets from which the frozen
snow had not been removed, was seeing a number of boys skating along at full speed.

Fronting the lake is the fashionable avenue of the city. Here, nice detached houses range along
the broad road for miles. Trees shade the carriage-way, which in summer must look beautiful.
Now all is covered with hard-frozen snow, over which the sleigh-bells sound merrily as the
teams come dashing along. Here comes a little cutter with a pretty black pony, which trots
saucily past, and is followed by a grand double-seated sleigh drawn by three splendid greys.
Other sleighs, built for lightness and speed, are drawn by fast-trotting horses, in which the
Americans take so much delight. The object of most of the young men who are out sleighing seems
to be to pass the sleigh in front of them, so that some very smart racing is usually to be
seen along the Avenue drive.

As might be expected from the extent and wealth of its population, Chicago is well supplied
with places of amusement. I observe that Christine Nilsson is here at present, and she is an
immense favourite. There are also many handsome stone churches in the city, which add much
to the fine appearance of the place. But I had neither time to visit the theatres nor the churches,
as my time in Chicago was already up, and I, accordingly, made arrangements for pursuing my
journey eastward.[17]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 17: It will be observed that the above summary description applies to Chicago as
it was seen by the writer in February last. While these sheets are passing through the press,
the appalling intelligence has arrived from America that the magnificent city has been almost
entirely destroyed by fire!]

CHAPTER XXVII.

CHICAGO TO NEW YORK.

For some distance out of Chicago, the railway runs alongside the fine avenue fronting Lake
Michigan. We pass a long succession of villas amidst their gardens and shrubberies, now white
with snow and frost. Then we cross an inlet on a timber viaduct laid on piles driven into the
bed of the lake. The ice at some parts is thrown up irregularly in waves, and presents a strange
aspect. It looks as if it had been frozen solid in one moment at a time when the wind was blowing
pretty hard.

At another part, where the ice is smoother, men were getting in the ice harvest between us
and the shore. The snow is first cleared from the surface by means of a snow plane. Then the
plough, drawn by a horse, with a man guiding the sharp steel cutter, makes a deep groove into
the ice. These grooves are again crossed by others at right angles, until the whole of the
surface intended to be gathered in is divided into sections of about four feet square. When
that is done, several of the first blocks taken out are detached by means of hand-saws; after
which the remainder are easily broken off with crow-bars. The blocks are then stored in the
large ice-houses on shore, several of which are so large as to be each capable of holding some
20,000 tons of ice.

The consumption of ice in the States is enormous. Every one takes ice in their water, in winter
as well as in summer. Even the commonest sort of people consume it largely; and they send round
to the store for ten cents' worth of ice, just as our people send round to the nearest public
for six penny worth of beer. I have heard Americans who have been in London complain of the
scarcity of ice with us, and the parsimonious way in which it is used. But then we have not
the enormous natural stores of ice close to our doors, as they have at Chicago and many other
of the large American towns.

Meanwhile we have skirted the shores of the lake, and shot into the country, the snow lying
deep in the fields, in some places quite covering the tops of the fences. After passing through
a rather thickly-wooded country, we came to Michigan city, which stands close to the lake,
with a river flowing past it, on which large barges piled high with timber are now completely
frozen up. What a pretty place this Michigan must be in summer time, when the trees which line
the streets, and all the shady gardens about it, are clad in green. Even now the town has a
brisk, cheerful look. The sleighs are running merrily over the snow, and the omnibuses glide
smoothly along the streets on their "runners."

Taking one last look of the great inland sea, we struck across the broad peninsula formed by
Lake Michigan on one side and Lake Huron on the other, to the town of Detroit. The country
was very thickly wooded in some places,--apparently the remains of the old primeval forest.
Yet there were towns and villages at frequent intervals along the route. The deer have not
yet been extirpated, for often and again I saw their tracks in the snow along the banks of
the railway.

