Mrs. Jervis gave me her smelling-bottle, and had cut my laces, and set me in a great chair,
and he called her to him: How is the girl? said he: I never saw such a fool in my life. I did
nothing at all to her. Mrs. Jervis could not speak for crying. So he said, She has told you,
it seems, that I was kind to her in the summer-house, though I'll assure you, I was quite innocent
then as well as now; and I desire you to keep this matter to yourself, and let me not be named
in it.

O, sir, said she, for your honour's sake, and for Christ's sake!--But he would not hear her,
and said--For your own sake, I tell you, Mrs. Jervis, say not a word more. I have done her
no harm. The paintings that adorn the walls are rough and disproportionate. Silver
jewelry are many and great, although his work is very polished, except for some another piece.
The vessels are too many and better work, and some of them gold; ornaments are also many, rich
and expensive. So, although the service worship God and no wealth can be said to be excessive,
however, attending the poverty of the people and their natural, it seems that exceeded this.
Towers or wooden steeples are formed of four pillars or pitchforks thick and high, with two
or filed three others do so many bodies, and tejadito. These towers are in the backyards main
adjacent to the same churches, and in them many bells of various sizes, some quite large and
good sounds, most are cast in these peoples.

One of the things I've noticed is that, with the churches of these
people so many jewels silver, even some necessary purpose, and many
of them duplicate the same use, have not used part of the silver crowns
of the images of the Mother of God, glows fireweed crucifixes and
saints, is very rare in which the image silver ornaments have been
used whatsoever.

The same goes for the busts of Jesus of Nazareth, on the various steps of his passion, of the Virgin
and other saints who take on the Holy Week processions, all these are about bad carved pieces of
wood and painted worse, without any decoration on their bodies, or in walk in that place, and
these are some kind of malformed litters, and it seems that should have put into this more than
anything else your dedication, for, as the representation of these steps brings to mind the
work of our redemption is very convenient the busts of Jesus, the Virgin and other saints are
well trained and decorated, mostly among these people, they come the species by sight than
by hearing, and could have used part of the rich fabrics that were used in ornaments in decent
clothes of these images and other ornaments from them.

The duties of divine worship for the church made them with great solemnity, but did not put much
care into what belonged to the spiritual good of the souls of his parishioners, because as explained
Mr. Don Manuel Antonio de La Torre, bishop of Buenos Aires, in the report that led to Don Francisco
Bucareli Excellency, the Governor of that city, dealing with the
marking of the new synod priests who replaced the Jesuits, they did
not apply any of the Masses for the dead, or of the holidays for the
people or to be singing on Monday for the souls in purgatory, nor
had the Blessed Sacramento home for the sick, for them, when they
had to manage, they carried and put in a house or chapel, opposite
the church, and there administered alone, succeeding sometimes that
will take or make them die of cold in some way.

This custom remained some time later. I even caught two of the people under my command which
ceased at a hint of mine, the rest was practiced according to what will express Later, when this question
of divine worship. As in most current priests have followed the custom which they found, as practiced
by the Indians themselves, except such a thing to have altered little consideration, and if they
had any other special, I ignore.

The place of the Jesuits was replaced by religious of the three orders: Santo Domingo, San Francisco
and La Merced, for each village were appointed two priests to titles cure and companion, pointing
to each other synod, as mentioned above.

For the appointment of religious is to serve the use of cure formalities are kept laws that prevent
the royal patronage, making the provincial nomination, presentation the Vice Patron, and giving
the institution the diocese, but the companions are appointed by the provincial, and with the
approval and the Vice Patron passes are to take their fate, leaving taken right in the courts
of the royal treasury for the payment of their synods.

After the priest comes to the governor of the province or department lieutenant whose district
is the village of their destination, having regard to their titles, order shipped to the council
and administrator who in turn receive it, and will come with a living,
as it is sent in the ordinances.

With this order and its securities are presented in the village, and the priest who ceases makes
formal delivery of the parish, books, church, vestry and ornaments. Attending all the council and
administrator, recognize if the ornaments and jewels of the church are complete, as the first
inventory, noting what to write, and give part of the immediate implementation superior.

The partners are licensed by their provincial and order of the Vice Patron, and through she
is admitted without hand them anything.

Calls into question, yet I doubt if these brothers are two cures, or at least if both have equal
loads. This doubt arises from it, enjoying the same and different synods, must be seen different
benefits, and therefore everyone should have their burdens attached particular or share common
together all of the parish. To that is added, if only to appointed priest is bound by the burdens
of the parish, and companion to the priest I'll tackle the certification
it should be given by the priest, the priest and the council, as that
managed care is the people, but not, because each religion separately
certification is given, but the priest can remove or put in giving
his companion.

Besides this, the year of 82, by royal decree, issued edicts of the illustrious Bishop Buenos Aires,
calling the priests who would oppose the parishes of ten seven Indian
villages of the bishopric, and calls His Eminence for each village
two individuals for priests, saying that the synod of each are 200
pesos, and added the Honourable Member Excellency that the people
of Yapeyú only call one another cleric to be provided and in it.

It can be inferred that the job of healing and partner are two different benefits, each with its
ancillary charges, or that all of the parish are common to both, and must divide each other
equally. But it remains the only cure appointing brings titles so, with all due formalities,
and the partner, but for the enjoyment of the synod are sufficient to bring in no way can
be for the administration of sacraments; with the exception of the confession, because that
only leads to license the Bishop, and need for the rest of the village priest that is intended.

Although
it regularly often acquiesce and fellow priests, starting each work no longer offered some dissension
about this, claiming that some priests should only colleagues do what they command them determinedly,
and nothing more; others Instead they want the partners have the same obligations and charges them
and co want all Masses to be applied to the parishioners are of by the priest, and no one there
to resolve this doubt, nor has sought to consult Superiority. But the truth is that partners
do not happen in their religion, particularly those of San Francisco, as long as they have for their
retirement, telling only those who have served cures.

Of these principles that the religious born peers do not recognize superiority in priests, and they dare
to force them and treat them as subjects, so that neither superior know anyone in this province,
because of royal patronage of the Governor and deputy wardens are only a warning that we must
consider what the Vice Patron worthy of his notice, and nothing else. By regular and diocesan bishops,
no more than Vicar or exercising any jurisdiction, and thus is no wonder that have happened many
disorders in these villages, so far away the resources, and so linked
the three real courts, episcopal and regular, and more frequently
they participate in all three jurisdictions, the causes that originate,
which gives body and promote the widespread ignorance of all.

The governor and lieutenant are far and without any knowledge of the laws, and so we can not using
them, even with the method and reliability form a legal case, the religious usually does not know
more than any moral theology, and no civil law, or canon. Here there is no law professor that
sometimes by not err, and others to avoid scandals, it is necessary that the most prudent
yield the field to the proud, and if disorders because nature can not be tolerated as a record,
and da part with him to the Superior, is so full of nonentities, some by excess and other default the
higher courts are pregnant with them, and can not resolve anything. So to view this is not surprising
nothing happened, before you wonder does not happen more.

When it happens on a sick priest, who is alone in his village, and can not attend the performance
of his ministry, and give part to the governor or lieutenant immediately, it has no other measure
that writing a letter rogatory to another priest or partner of those in which there are two religious
people, expressing the need, and if he does not want to go supplement, not be compelled. It has
happened to have the governor to write to many, without find one that would go to meet one of these
needs.

Although the councils and other canonical provisions is commanded that the priests do not absent
their parishes but in the time and the reasons there indicated, and the license of the prelates
and others who can give them, this is not observed any of this. Out of the frequent Absences do
priests and peers within the same province of some other peoples connection with church functions,
and other individuals that may leave only the people from office for some days, other absences
are outside the province on the occasion to go to Buenos Aires to collect the synods, and Corrientes
and Paraguay to see their relatives. To these absences, which are always of months, and perhaps
of the year or years, which is usually presented the district governor or lieutenant asking
the pass for the journey to be undertaken, the that is granted as part of the government is secular,
and with this single requirement They hit the road, the capital will be presented, negotiated
the payment of their synods and others ranging, and not by their
religion, nor by the bishop, they do charge.

I guess they have given tacit license, and the religious use of it at such times need it, because
otherwise I do not know how they can compose their consciences.

As time Jesuit priests ruled anything in these villages, the Indians used to bring all cases
to them, continued the same after the expulsion, with religious that took its place. Here, some
through ignorance and others to expand their jurisdiction, seized
of them, as if rightfully belong, and although the government sought
to remedy and got separated from such illegal and harmful abuse, have
always remained strong religious to want to deal with cases which
by their nature correspond to the judges clergymen, and others are
of mixed jurisdiction, such as concubinage, quarrels between married
and the like, without the government was able to separate them from
those claims.

Although this will make them know that the jurisdiction of priests does not extend the jurisdiction
outside, having no particular committee of the bishop or vicar general of the bishopric, and
so it should not hear any external cause or impose convictions or arrest Indians much less fulminate
censures, as they have done before, because this is reserved for ecclesiastical judges, who are
not priests, but even if they abstain, it is with very great disgust.

In the way of celebrating the divine office seems to have shaped the practice cures ancient
peoples had, learning from the Indians, because the uniformity substantial as is observed in all the
towns it says a lot. Every Sunday and holidays of the year is announced the day before the
prayers, with ringing of bells, repeated at dawn, and sunrise, or shortly after the first ring
is given to call people to the church, repeating two with intermission of six or eight minutes
between and another. At which time meets all the local people in the church, and there, doing chorus
any tax or other old educated, and sometimes more skilled guys, pray the prayers Christian
doctrine, then the priest or partner is, and explains some point
of doctrine, using a little moral to the same extent as regularly
spent half an hour; and concluded with the bell warn that it will
begin the Mass, the priest celebrating the or partner with some solemnity,
because the music is large, and regularly trained musicians.

The altar is decorated with many lights, some wax and tallow other, accompanying the priest at the
altar six boys from ten to twelve years, dressed in Autumn Sotanillo the days the church dressed in
white or red, and on the other colors are the same as the church uses, and more or less expensive rochets
and decent, as the Day holiday. Two of these guys serve the censer and navetas other two candlesticks
and the remaining two go to the rest of the altar, they are quite skilled and ready. Besides these
there are around the altar boys two or more Indians sacristanes, but no ecclesiastical robe, but
neat, they are there to pierce the veils, set fire censers, or to pull up chairs and other similar
occupations. Upon exiting the Mass Indians announce at the door of the church, the threshold
for inside, with a touch of boxes and trumpets, for never missing six or eight in this occupation,
causing such uproar to bewilder those who are in church, while repeating the same gospel, the
Sanctus, to lift host and chalice, the second rise and the last gospel.

If some have confessed, given the Holy Communion after the priest consumes, and Mass killing sing
the treble of the music on the blessed and praised, in a tone so
sweet and graceful, which repeats all the common people and in destroying
retire to their homes.

In villages where there are two monks would be most appropriate in the days of obligation for
the Indians, one Mass said earlier, that those patients who attend were to hear, while leaving
other caregivers, and so those or those for their nakedness can not go to church, would be provided
by others and other clothing to hear Mass, but it is very rare in people who practice it. In
the most Masses are said to time, so that those who have these or other impairments can not hear,
nor which the people are employed in keeping the chacarería, which, as was suspicious thefts night
and early Mass is said, can not come to hear, what they might do if the mass most are held at a
regular time, although they were all night in your occupation had time from dawn to come to
church without any suspicion.

All other days of the year, non-provision for the Indians, although they are for Spanish, two Masses
are said at sunrise or earlier, and in some towns after dawn, so that many are left without hearing
if neglected in early, because of which originate some of the divisions among priests and administrators.
On all days, although the mass is recited, attend music and sing in the chorus Kyrie, Glory,
Creed and Sanctus, and sing everything being sung Mass, and I play drums and make the same noise
in the holidays.

Every evening they pray the rosary in the church, one hour before the sun sets, in There is also
a difference of some people to others, according to the will of the priest.

Solemnized in the year some parties more special than the others, such as major of Our Lord
Jesus Christ and the Virgin, St. Michael, the Patriarch of the Holy religion of priests, on the King
Our Lord and his birthday.

These days the festival is announced with ringing of bells at noon yesterday, at which time
most of the people attends the church where the priest with the music sings the Magnificat,
and later singing vespers solemn, preceded by the ringing of bells,
repeating the prayers and encouragement, as well as at the dawn of
another day, and to convene the mass, which acts in music with more
solemnity than other days, and then executed in the village some public
entertainment, and gives some special interests and other things as
mentioned above.

The function that most stands alone amongst these is the patron saint of the village head, for
it is they invite some people's religious immediate, so that on the eve and Mass dress of deacons
and others to assist other ministries of the altar, is charged in advance the sermon is preached,
half and half in Guaraní in Castilian, whose diligence is carried out the council and manager,
but is reported before the priest, who also attends invite the religious who are to attend the
function and in the time they arrive the people on the eve of the feast day of receiving them
at the door of the church priests with the ringing of bells and music, and the same practice
with the governor and lieutenant of the department whether that condition,
which can only ceremony abuse excuse being introduced from time of
the Jesuits, that they practiced with their priests, and that failure
to do so now would miss Indians, the rest of these functions is already
said elsewhere.

The next day is celebrated in the towns of this department, available to me, an anniversary for
the souls of the children of the village, with vigil Mass and solemn responsibility, and apply
all the religious who attend Mass that day, paying his fee of the common people.

Easter functions are quite solemnity and devotion, but with little
processions decency, so imperfect and unadorned images of everything
serves them.

In some towns, processions start from the Monday of Holy Week, but most common is from Wednesday,
this day a later sing in the church of darkness with all music, with
such solemnity as they could in a collegiate, where it is admirable
to hear the lamentations and others singing lessons to kids of eight
or ten years old, Latino-owned but not because they do not understand
what they read, and can not pronounce well Latin or Castilian, because
they lack in the language of the letters L, F and R, rough, but well
drawn and true to the music.

Duran darkness until the prayers, at which time, while the Miserere mei Deus, closed the doors and turned
off the lights, hit rigorously the Indians soon after talk of passion is in the Guarani language,
which was ended, the available to the procession in this way.

Images ready to be out in the procession, and early music through church, go through the door,
falling into the courtyard of the school, several boys dressed with Sotanillo and surplices of
servers, with the instruments and symbols of the Passion of Christ. Enter one of these with
the lantern, and two sides with two lanterns made of cloth bowels of the bulls, placed at the tip of
long stalks, kneels before the image is in the midst of the church,
and meanwhile the music sings a motet in Guarani expressing that step,
which is completed and continue to raise these kids get in order in
the procession, and enter another with other insignia, and well keep
following until completion all of which are perhaps twenty or more,
and logos that are so crude and materials the rope is a loop bonding,
a leather whip of what they used to punish the steps that Good Friday
is for the descent, and so do the rest.

After that just happened, stands the priest and others who have been sitting in the meantime, and follow
the procession, which comes out and walk around the plaza, which is illuminated, and willing altars
in the four corners to make stops. Across the square are many Indian penitents, and among
some Indian women who each other was hit savagely, making the puncture Some back and thighs,
where the blood runs in abundance, others big burden crosses on their shoulders, others cross-reeled
or put others in chains, etc. In some people running on the plaza steps meeting Veronica, the Virgin
and St. Juan, as well as the deposition of Good Friday, but these steps have apparently been introduced
after the expulsion, because neither are common to all peoples, and is in All images on purpose for
them, nor the priests served the Indians to run, particularly the
descent, but the Spanish who come together in those days there.

What time the Jesuits were practiced some more serious and dissonant penances The secular priests and
superiors have forbidden the present time, and yet this This year I warned that one of the people
in my office had been renewed several of them Indians, whose results
were abused some of the face and body, both that many days were unable,
being abused by foreign hands, so I rebuked those who arranged and
prevenídoles not do it again.

Holy Thursday Mass is celebrated with great solemnity, in which the regular communicant council,
and then carries the Blessed Sacrament in procession around the church and is placed on the
monument which, though badly painted racks of linen, is catching on some villages, and all are
decorated with silver ornaments there, with many lights, but most are tallow candles.
 I think, said
I, (and hope I should have grace to do so,) that I should not give way to his temptations on
any account; but it would be very presumptuous in me to rely upon my own strength against a
gentleman of his qualifications and estate, and who is my waster; and thinks himself entitled
to call me bold-face, and what not? only for standing on my necessary defence: and that, too,
where the good of my soul and body, and my duty to God, and my parents, are all concerned.
How then, Mrs. Jervis, said I, can I ask or wish to stay?

Well, well, says she; as he seems very desirous you should not stay, I hope it is from a good
motive; for fear he should be tempted to disgrace himself as well as you. No, no, Mrs. Jervis,
said I; I have thought of that too; for I would be glad to consider him with that duty that
becomes me: but then he would have let me go to Lady Davers, and not have hindered my preferment:
and he would not have said, I should return to my poverty and distress, when, by his mother's
goodness, I had been lifted out of it; but that he intended to fright me, and punish me, as
he thought, for not complying with his wickedness: And this shews me well enough what I have
to expect from his future goodness, except I will deserve it at his own dear price.

She was silent; and I added, Well, there's no more to be said; I must go, that's certain: All
my concern will be how to part with you: and, indeed, after you, with every body; for all my
fellow-servants have loved me, and you and they will cost me a sigh, and a tear too, now and
then, I am sure. And so I fell a crying: I could not help it. For it is a pleasant thing to
one to be in a house among a great many fellow-servants, and be beloved by them all.

Nay, I should have told you before now, how kind and civil Mr. Longman our steward is; vastly
courteous, indeed, on all occasions! And he said once to Mrs. Jervis, he wished he was a young
man for my sake; I should be his wife, and he would settle all he had upon me on marriage;
and, you must know, he is reckoned worth a power of money.

I take no pride in this; but bless God, and your good examples, my dear parents, that I have
been enabled so to carry myself, as to have every body's good word; Not but our cook one day,
who is a little snappish and cross sometimes, said once to me, Why this Pamela of ours goes
as fine as a lady. See what it is to have a fine face!--I wonder what the girl will come to
at last!

She was hot with her work; and I sneaked away; for I seldom go down into the kitchen; and I
heard the butler say, Why, Jane, nobody has your good word: What has Mrs. Pamela done to you?
I am sure she offends nobody. And what, said the peevish wench, have I said to her, foolatum;
but that she was pretty? They quarrelled afterwards, I heard: I was sorry for it, but troubled
myself no more about it. Forgive this silly prattle, from

                                            Your dutiful DAUGHTER.

Oh! I forgot to say, that I would stay to finish the waistcoat, if I might with safety. Mrs.
Jervis tells me I certainly may. I never did a prettier piece of work; and I am up early and
late to get it over; for I long to be with you.

LETTER XX

DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER,

I did not send my last letters so soon as I hoped, because John (whether my master mistrusts
or no, I can't say) had been sent to Lady Davers's instead of Isaac, who used to go; and I
could not be so free with, nor so well trust Isaac; though he is very civil to me too. So I
was forced to stay till John returned.

As I may not have opportunity to send again soon, and yet, as I know you keep my letters, and
read them over and over, (so John told me,) when you have done work, (so much does your kindness
make you love all that comes from your poor daughter,) and as it may be some little pleasure
to me, perhaps, to read them myself, when I am come to you, to remind me of what I have gone
through, and how great God's goodness has been to me, (which, I hope, will further strengthen
my good resolutions, that I may not hereafter, from my bad conduct, have reason to condemn
myself from my own hand as it were): For all these reasons, I say, I will write as I have time,
and as matters happen, and send the scribble to you as I have opportunity; and if I don't every
time, in form, subscribe as I ought, I am sure you will always believe, that it is not for
want of duty. So I will begin where I left off, about the talk between Mrs. Jervis and me,
for me to ask to stay.

Unknown to Mrs. Jervis, I put a project, as I may call it, in practice. I thought with myself
some days ago, Here I shall go home to my poor father and mother, and have nothing on my back,
that will be fit for my condition; for how should your poor daughter look with a silk night-gown,
silken petticoats, cambric head-clothes, fine holland linen, laced shoes that were my lady's;
and fine stockings! And how in a little while must these have looked, like old cast-offs, indeed,
and I looked so for wearing them! And people would have said, (for poor folks are envious as
well as rich,) See there Goody Andrews's daughter, turned home from her fine place! What a
tawdry figure she makes! And how well that garb becomes her poor parents' circumstances!--And
how would they look upon me, thought I to myself, when they should come to be threadbare and
worn out? And how should I look, even if I could purchase homespun clothes, to dwindle into
them one by one, as I got them?--May be, an old silk gown, and a linsey-woolsey petticoat,
and the like. 

Whatever the case, and without giving the ruling, no one denies that Shakspeare is a first order
wit. Neither Voltaire nor Moratin denied.

The glory of the poet began when he lived and wrote his plays. After it has not been eclipsed
and never has been and will grow increasingly with the passage of time. But the greatness of
mountains were not seen or measured closely. Although little is known about the life of Shakspeare,
it seems likely knew him and tried many eminent men of the brilliant period in which Raleigh lived,
Bacon, the Earl of Essex, Milton, Hales, Kepler, Bellarmine, Alberico Gentile, Paolo Sarpi,
Vieta and a thousand others who knew him. None despised his talent did not consider it any
the merit of his plays, but no one paid him no worship, worship that now pays the most famous,
educated, intelligent and blessed the human race. Until was the nineteenth century, his most
fervent admirers exclaim, until he reached this age, whose Hamlet genius is living, readers could
not have understood the tragedy of Hamlet. Now literature, philosophy and thinking everything
is Shakspeare.

Your mind is the horizon beyond which we see nothing, nothing found, while we strive forward
by descry what is to come.
Singular Shakspeare would be so adored being among strangers, it
was less among themselves, among the English, who are so patriotic.
In England has had the great dramatic many biographers, critics, commentators,
and apologists.

Then I bought of a pedlar, two pretty enough round-eared caps, a little straw-hat, and a pair
of knit mittens, turned up with white calico; and two pair of ordinary blue worsted hose, that
make a smartish appearance, with white clocks, I'll assure you; and two yards of black riband
for my shift sleeves, and to serve as a necklace; and when I had 'em all come home, I went
and looked upon them once in two hours, for two days together: For, you must know, though I
be with Mrs. Jervis, I keep my own little apartment still for my clothes, and nobody goes thither
but myself. You'll say I was no bad housewife to have saved so much money; but my dear good
lady was always giving me something.

I believed myself the more obliged to do this, because, as I was turned away for what my good
master thought want of duty; and as he expected other returns for his presents, than I intended
to make him, so I thought it was but just to leave his presents behind me when I went away;
for, you know, if I would not earn his wages, why should I have them?

Don't trouble yourself about the four guineas, nor borrow to make them up; for they were given
me, with some silver, as I told you, as a perquisite, being what my lady had about her when
she died; and, as I hope for no wages, I am so vain as to think I have deserved all that money
in the fourteen months, since my lady's death, for she, good soul, overpaid me before, in learning
and other kindnesses. Had she lived, none of these things might have happened!--But I ought
to be thankful 'tis no worse. Every thing will turn about for the best: that's my confidence.

So, as I was saying, I have provided a new and more suitable dress, and I long to appear in
it, more than ever I did in any new clothes in my life: for then I shall be soon after with
you, and at ease in my mind--But, mum! Here he comes, I believe.--I am, etc.

LETTER XXI

MY DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER,

I was forced to break off: for I feared my master was coming: but it proved to be only Mrs.
Jervis. She said, I can't endure you should be so much by yourself, Pamela. And I, said I,
dread nothing so much as company; for my heart was up at my mouth now, for fear my master was
coming. But I always rejoice to see dear Mrs. Jervis.

Said she, I have had a world of talk with my master about you. I am sorry for it, said I, that
I am made of so much consequence as to be talked of by him. O, said she, I must not tell you
all; but you are of more consequence to him than you think for----

Or wish for, said I; for the fruits of being of consequence to him, would make me of none to
myself, or any body else.

Said she, Thou art as witty as any lady in the land; I wonder where thou gottest it. But they
must be poor ladies, with such great opportunities, I am sure, if they have no more wit than
I.--But let that pass.

I suppose, said I, that I am of so much consequence, however, as to vex him, if it be but to
think he can't make a fool of such a one as I; and that is nothing at all, but a rebuke to
the pride of his high condition, which he did not expect, and knows not how to put up with.

There is something in that, may be, said she: but, indeed, Pamela, he is very angry with you
too; and calls you twenty perverse things; wonders at his own folly, to have shewn you so much
favour, as he calls it; which he was first inclined to, he says, for his mother's sake, and
would have persisted to shew you for your own, if you was not your own enemy.

Nay, now I shan't love you, Mrs. Jervis, said I; you are going to persuade me to ask to stay,
though you know the hazards I run.--No, said she, he says you shall go; for he thinks it won't
be for his reputation to keep you: but he wished (don't speak of it for the world, Pamela,)
that he knew a lady of birth, just such another as yourself, in person and mind, and he would
marry her to-morrow.

I coloured up to the ears at this word: but said, Yet, if I was the lady of birth, and he would
offer to be rude first, as he has twice done to poor me, I don't know whether I would have
him: For she that can bear an insult of that kind, I should think not worthy to be a gentleman's
wife: any more than he would be a gentleman that would offer it.

Nay, now, Pamela, said she, thou carriest thy notions a great way. Well, dear Mrs. Jervis,
said I, very seriously, for I could not help it, I am more full of fears than ever. I have
only to beg of you, as one of the best friends I have in the world, to say nothing of my asking
to stay. To say my master likes me, when I know what end he aims at, is abomination to my ears;
and I shan't think myself safe till I am at my poor father's and mother's.

She was a little angry with me, till I assured her that I had not the least uneasiness on her
account, but thought myself safe under her protection and friendship. And so we dropt the discourse
for that time.

I hope to have finished this ugly waistcoat in two days; after which I have only some linen
to get up, and shall then let you know how I contrive as to my passage; for the heavy rains
will make it sad travelling on foot: but may be I may get a place to which is ten miles of
the way, in farmer Nichols's close cart; for I can't sit a horse well at all, and may be nobody
will be suffered to see me on upon the way. But I hope to let you know more. From, etc.

LETTER XXII

MY DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER,

All my fellow-servants have now some notion that I am to go away; but can't imagine for what.
Mrs. Jervis tells them, that my father and mother, growing in years, cannot live without me;
and so I go home to them, to help to comfort their old age; but they seem not to believe it.

What they found it out by was; the butler heard him say to me, as I passed by him, in the entry
leading to the hall, Who's that? Two days earlier they had planted in corn and
Jewish, as many of its neighbors, as to the land must not let it rest.

He could hardly carry the two fields that had plowed and cultivated. But what same as the late
Uncle Barrett, felt the intoxication of the earth ever wanted to cover more with their work,
and although it was somewhat past the time, thought to remove the next day part of land which remained
uncultivated in the rear of the cabin, to plant in her melons excellent crop, to which his wife
would take very good product taking them, like others, to Valencia
market.

There must thank God, finally allowing him to live in peace in this
paradise.

What the land of the plain! ... For one thing, according to the stories, cried the Moors to
be thrown there.

The harvest had cleared the landscape, breaking down the masses of
wheat poppy nuanced that blocked the view from all sides like a wall
of gold.

Now the valley looked much large, infinite, and stretched out of sight the great paintings of red
soil, cut the paths and ditches.

In all the houses are carefully watching the party on Sunday, and as he had recent vintage and not
a little money, no one thought to contravene the provision. There was not a single man working
in the fields, or a horse on the roads. Old spent the paths to the glistening mantilla over
her eyes and a saddle in the arm, as if they throw it to the bell that turned around far,
far away, on the roofs of the village. Chasing screaming at a crossroads a large group of children,
on the green of the slopes stood out red pants some soldiers who took advantage of the party
for an hour at home. Sounded In the distance, like a fabric that is torn, the shotgun against
the bands of swallows flew to one side to another in contradanza whimsical whistling sharply, as
if rayasen with glass wings of blue sky; buzzed about the clouds of mosquitoes ditches nearly
invisible, and a green farmhouse, under the arbor years, as an amalgam Men swarmed colored floral
skirts, colorful scarves.

The sleepy rhythm of the guitars seemed lull a shrill bugle that would throw all the ends
of the valley, sleeping under the sun, the sounds of the Jack Moorish Valencia.

This peaceful landscape was the idealization of a hardworking and happy Arcadia. There was no
There are bad people.

Batiste desperezábase with pleasure, being dominated by the quiet that seemed to pervade the environment.
Rosetta, with the boys, had gone to dance farm, his wife dozed under
the sunshade, and he was walking from his home on the road, per piece
of uncultivated land which gave entrance to the car.

Standing on the bridge, was replying to the greetings of neighbors, laughing as they passed if they
were to witness a hilarious sight.

They were going to house all Cup, to get close to the famous "stubbornness" of the brothers
Pimento Terreròla, two bad heads as well as Pepeta's husband, who
had also sworn I hate to work and spent the entire day at the tavern.

Including many rivalries arose and gambling, especially at this time, it was when increased competition
from the establishment.

The three bullies were pushing in brutality, eager to reach each of popularity over the other.

Batiste
had heard of this commitment that made people go to the famous tavern as in Jubilee.

It was playing barter sit and drink more fluid without liquor, to
see who was the last to fall.

Began on Friday evening, and all three were still in their saddles rope on Sunday afternoon,
playing one-hundredth of barter, with the jug of liquor on zinc side table, leaving only the
letters to swallow the delicious sausages that they highly Cup fame by the innkeeper knew how
well preserved in oil.

The news spreading through the meadow, had come as a procession to all the nations of a league
round. The three handsome were not left alone for a moment. They had their fans, who were in
charge of occupying the fourth place in the game, and when night
came when mass of spectators retired to their barracks, quedábanse
there watching how they played into the light of a chandelier hanging
from a poplar Cup was as ornery man, unable to endure the heavy monotony
of this bet, and so it was time to sleep he closed his door, leaving
the square to the players after renewing his supply of liquor.

Many pretended indignation at the brutality of this "stubbornness", but in the back of his mind escarabeajaba
certain pride in the fact that such men their neighbors.

Look at those youths iron garden breeds! Spirit passed through his body like water.

All around seemed to be staring at the tavern, spreading rapidly prodigious the news over the course
of the bet. Had already drunk two pitchers, and as usual .... Since
there were three ... and so firm.

Copa kept track of drinking. And people, in your choice, bet on any of the three contenders.

This
struggle, which for two days the whole plain passionate and did not seem even close to an end,
reached the ears of Batiste. He, sober man, unable to drink alcohol without feeling nauseous
and headaches, could not hide a wonder very close to the admiration of these brutes, that according
to their assumptions, they should have a stomach lined with tin.

He continued to look with envy to all who marched into the tavern. Why had not He would go
where others? ... I had never entered the house of Copa, formerly the antrum their enemies, but
now his presence justified extraordinary event .... In addition, What the devil! after so much
work and so good harvest, or an honest man could afford a bit of expansion.

And with a cry to his sleeping wife to warn her he was going, took the road from the tavern.

It
was like a human tingling mass of people filled the plaza in front
of house to Cup There were, body shirt, corduroy pants, black belt
and handkerchief bulging to the miter-shaped head, all men in the
outline.

The old were supported by thick staffs of Liria, yellow and black arabesques, showing young
people with bare sinewy arms and reddish, and as thin sticks moving contrast between his fingers ash
huge and calloused. The huge poplars shaded around the tavern to the lively groups.

Batiste was set for the first time in detail in the famous tavern, with its white walls, blue
painted windows and doorways clad in colorful tiles from Manises.

It had two doors. One was the cellar, and leaves open could be seen between the two rows of huge vats
reached the ceiling, piles of empty and wrinkled skins, large funnels and measures of zinc dyed
red by the continued slide of the liquid. At the bottom of the piece was the heavy truck that
rolled to the limits of the province to bring the wine purchases. This room is dark and moist
exhaled a breath alcohol the scent of wine, which intoxicates the smell and sight disturbed,
suggesting that land whole was to be covered by a flood of wine.

Here were the treasures of Copa, which spoke with reverence and respect
all the drunks orchard.

He alone knew the secret of their barrels, through her, the old view staves, appreciated the
quality of the blood contained, was the high priest of this temple alcohol, and wanting to give away
to someone, he withdrew it, with as much devotion as if he had been among custody hands, a
vessel in which the liquid sparkled with iridescent color of topaz crown of diamonds.

The other door was the tavern, which was open from one hour before pointing the day and at night
until ten, scoring on the road like a big black rectangle light red
oil lamp hanging above the counter.

They had the red brick walls and baseboards painted, at the height of a man with a terminal floral
border tiles. From there to the ceiling the walls were dedicated the sublime art of painting,
as Cup, though he looked rough man, attentive only to at night would be filled the drawer
of his desk, was a veritable Maecenas. There brought a painter of the city, keeping it there for
more than a week, and this freak magnate patron of the arts had cost him, as he declared, about
five dollars, more than peseta less.

It was true that the hearing could not go anywhere without tripping over a masterpiece whose
rabid colors seemed happy to parishioners, encouraging them to drink. Blue trees on purple
fields, yellow horizons, bigger houses than the trees and people
larger than houses, hunters with shotguns appeared majos brooms and
Andalusia, with his blunderbuss on his legs, mounted on spirited horses
that looked like rats.

A wonder of originality that excites drinkers. And on the doors of the rooms, the artist, alluding
quietly to the establishment, had painted amazing 'Still Life' livers grenades as open and bleeding,
which seemed enormous pepper watermelon, balls red yarn peaches trying to cross.

Many argued that the preponderance of the house on the other taverns in the orchard due to these
amazing decorations, and cursing the flies Cup dimmed so much beauty
with black dots of their outbursts.

Beside the front door was the bar, dirty and sticky, and behind him, the triple row of small
drums, topped by battlements of bottles containing the various and innumerable liquids facility.
Of the beams, greasy wings, hanging flags of sausages and black pudding,
or small strings of red peppers and fingers pointed as devil, and
breaking the monotony of this set, some ham majestic red tassels sausages.

The

gift for delicate palates was in a murky glass cabinet at the counter. There the stars of pastry,
cakes of raisins, candied sugar rolls, the muffins, all with a certain twang dark and suspicious
spots denouncing old Murviedro and cheese, sweet, fresh, soft white, in pieces like bread,
distilling yet serum.

Moreover, he had his fourth Cup with a pantry, where they were in large pots as monuments matches
the green olives and onion sausages preserved in oil, goods higher
office.

At the end of the tavern opened the corral gate, huge, spacious, his half-dozen fires to cook the
paella. The white pillars holding a vine very old, which gave shade to such a vast space, and
stacked along a stretch of wall Zinc stools and tables in such prodigious quantities that seemed
to have foreseen the Cup invasion of his home in the entire valley.

Batiste, peering into the tavern, the owner noticed, big man bare-chested, but with a cap helmeted
ear-muffs in full summer on his face huge, plump, purple. Was first customer of his establishment:
he never went to bed happy if there was drunk three meals half jug of wine.

Therefore, without doubt, only if his attention is as sprawling bet brought to the whole valley.

His
desk was a vantage point from which, as a knowledgeable expert, watched drunkenness of his parishioners.
Let no one boast of handsome in his house, as before speaking and had seized him at a club
that was under the counter, kind of ace of clubs, which Pimento trembled and all the bullies
of the contour ... At home, no brawls. A kill himself, the way! And when he opened the blade
and stools flying at night Sunday, Cup, without a word or lose your temper, arose among the soldiers,
grab the arm to the bravest, took them in suspense until the road
and blocking the main door inside, quietly began to count the money
in the drawer before bedtime, while sounded out the blows and the
cries of the fight resumed.

Everything was subject to close a hour before the tavern, but inside it would never have any
justice task while He was behind the counter.

Batiste, after looking furtively at the door the bartender, who with
the help of Women and dispatched a servant to the parishioners, he
returned to the square.

There is added to a clique of old men arguing about which of the three holders showed bet more
serene.

Many farmers, tired of admiring the three handsome, played on their own or snacking forming a
circle around the tables. Circulating the jug, releasing its red trickle that a faint rose glu-glu
to fall into the open mouths obsequiábanse at each other with handfuls da peanuts and lupine.
Earthenware dishes served concave gives the tavern maids the Oily
black puddings, soft cheeses, olives games, with their liquid in which
floating scented herbs, and on the tables could be seen the new wheat
bread, rolls blonde cortex, showing inside brown crumb and a thick
succulent meal from the garden.

All these people, eating, drinking and gesticulating, he raised the same rumor that if the
square nest was occupied by a huge, floating vapor in the atmosphere
of alcohol, a suffocating fog frying oil and the penetrating smell
of wine, mingling with the perfume from neighboring fields.

Batiste finally approached the large circle surrounding the bet.

At first I saw nothing, but slowly, driven by the curiosity of those who were behind him, was
making his way through sweaty bodies and tight, to be first row. Some spectators were sitting on
the floor, his jaw resting on both hands, the nose on the edge of
the table and staring at the players, not to lose detail of the famous
event.

This was where most intolerable was the smell of alcohol. Seemed he impregnated breath and clothes
of all people.

Saw Pimento Batiste and his opponents sitting on wooden stools strong carob with the cards
before the eyes, the jug of liquor within reach of one hand and on
zinc the pile of corn that was equivalent to the many of the game.

In each play, some of the three grabbed the pitcher and drank it and went quietly to their partners,
which I would also steep with no less ceremony.

The most immediate audience watching the cards to every man over his shoulder to convince they played
well.

There was no care: the heads were solid, as if there is no drinker but water, no one was guilty
of neglect or made stupid plays.

And still the game, without necessarily those of the bet would stop talking with friends, joking
the end of the fight.

Pimento, on seeing Batiste, muttered a "Hey!"

Was intended as a greeting, and looked back to his letters.

Sereno, you may be pregnant, but her eyes were red, his eyes shone a spark blue and indecisive,
resembling the flame of alcohol, and his face was getting at times
a pallor.

The others were not better, but everyone laughed. The spectators, infected by the game, it passed
from hand to hand jugs paid to cleavage, and it meant a flood of
brandy, which, overflowing out of the tavern down as wave of fire
in all stomachs.

Batiste had to drink up, pressed by the circle. He did not like, but a man must prove all things,
and he again animated by the same considerations which led it to the tavern. When a parent
has worked and is in the barn harvest can well afford his bit of madness.

He felt heat in the stomach and head a delicious confusion. Beginning to get used to the atmosphere
of the tavern, finding more and more funny the "stubbornness."

Up Pimento was a remarkable man you ... his own way.

The players had finished the game number ... (Nobody knew how many) and discussed with friends
about the next meal. One of the Terreròla visibly lost ground. Two days spirit to all grass,
with two nights spent in turbid, began to weigh upon him.

It would closing his eyes and his head dropped heavily on his brother, who wanted revive him
with tremendous blows on the flanks, muted given below the table.

Pimento smiled slyly before this win. Already had one on the ground.

And discussing dinner with fans. Should be excellent, without fear of spending, however, he
had not to pay. A final dinner was worthy of the deed, then surely the same night bet would be completed
by beating another sibling.

And what glorious trumpet announcing in advance the triumph of Pimento, began to sound snoring
Terreròla the small, fallen face down on the table and close to collapse stool, as if all the
liquor he had in his stomach seek the ground by law seriously.

His brother talked about to slap wake, but spoke kindly Pimento as
a magnanimous victor.

And to wake him for dinner. And give little importance affecting to the imagination and his own
strength, he spoke of his lack of appetite as a great misfortune, after spending two days in the
place eating and drinking severely.

A friend ran to the tavern to bring a long string of chillies.

This would restore appetite. Slapstick caused great laughter, and Pimento, for more to impress
their fans infernal delicacy offered to Terreròla still holding firm, while he, in turn, I
was eating with the same indifference as if it were bread.

A murmur of admiration went round the circle. For each chili that ate the other, Pepeta husband eat
up three, and so ended the string, true demons Rosary red.

The gross must have shield on the stomach.

And continued firm, impassive, increasingly pale, numb and red eyes, asking if FIFA had already killed
a couple of chickens for dinner and giving instructions on how stews.

Batiste him with wonder and at the same time I felt a vague desire to leave. Began to fall afternoon,
in the square the voices grew louder, initiating the scandal every
night Sunday.

In addition, Pimento too often looked at him with angry eyes and strange drunken firm. But without
knowing why, he stood there, as if this show so new for he could more than his will.

Friends of the bully gave him a joke to see that after the chilli was tientos jar, not caring
if he imitated his enemy. "I should not drink so much: he was going to lose, and you missing
money to pay. Now was not as rich as in previous years, when owner of the land was content
to not collect the rent. "

Reckless said this without realizing the value of their words, and it was a painful silence,
as in the bedroom of a patient when it exposes the damaged part.

Speaking of leases and pay in the place where actors and spectators he had consumed liquor jugs!
...

Batiste felt uneasy. It seemed that suddenly passed by the environment somewhat hostile, threatening.
Without much effort had run away, but stayed, believing that all looked at him by stealth. Feared,
if he fled, anticipating the attack, arrested by the insult, and
hoping to pass unnoticed, stood as subjugated by an impression that
it was not scary, but If anything more than prudence.

Pimento's fans made him repeat the procedure in value every year Non-pay
to the owner of the land, and celebrated with great laughter, with
shivering of malignant joy, as slaves who rejoice at the misfortunes
of his master.

The relatively modest bully its glories. Every year at Christmas and San Juan, started for Valencia,
tole, Tole, to see to the owner of the land. Other had a good couple of chickens, the basket
of cakes, the basket of fruit to soften to lords, to accept the pay incomplete, crying and
promising to round out the added later. He only had words, and not many.

His mistress, a stately matron, received him in the dining room of
his house.

Walked near here daughters, a señoritingas always full of ribbons and bunting.

Doña Manuela put his hand to the book to remember the semesters that led back .... Pimento "He
came to pay, huh ?...»

And the sly, on hearing the question of Mrs. Pajares, always answered
the same: "No, ma'am, I could not pay because he was without a room.

Knew that This was credited to crook. Already said their grandfather, who was man of great to
know: Who chains have been made? For men. Do you pay? You're a good person. Can not pay? You are
a crook. "And after this brief course of rustic philosophy, appealed to the second argument, which was
removed from his belt a snuff thistles in black, with a huge knife and began to chop rolling
a cigarette.

The view of the knife shudder at the lady, was nervous, and that is why the rogue cut the snuff slowly
and takes to save, always repeating the same arguments grandfather to explain his delay in payment.

Girls
in bows nicknamed him 'the chain', the mother felt uneasy with the presence of this barbarian's
infamous, smelling of wine and talked gesticulating with the knife; and convinced at last that
there was nothing out of it, indicábale that was, but he felt a deep
joy to be upset and tried to prolong the interview.

He even came to say already paid could not save her visits. The lady would forget the existence
of their land. Ah, no, Dona Manuela! Pimento was accurate observer of his duties, and a lessee
should visit his love at Christmas and San Juan, to show that if not why not pay ceased to
be your humble servant.

And there was two times a year, to stain the floor with his muddy
sandals and repeat strings are for men, making pinwheels with the
knife.

It was a revenge slave, the beggar bitter pleasure of appearing with
their stinking rags in the middle of a rich feast.

All the peasants
laughed, commenting on the conduct of Pimento to his mistress.

And
the bully behavior supported with reasons. Why should he pay for it?
Let's see, why what ... Their land and cultivated his grandfather.
On the death of his father had divided the the brothers to his taste,
following the custom of the garden, without asking for anything the
owner. They were those who worked, what they did produce, which left
little by little life on their lumps.

Pimento, speaking passionately
about his work, showed this impudence, some smiling .... Well, he
did not work much because I was ready and had seen the farce of life.
But some Once working, from time to time, and this was enough for
the land were more fairly to him than that fat matron Valencia. I
came her to work, it was clinging to plow all their pounds of flesh,
and the two girls in the yoked and bows pulling it, and then would
be its legitimate owner.

The jokes were rude bully the roar of laughter
to the audience. To all those people still kept the bad taste of the
pay of San Juan, it was very funny to see covered their masters so
cruelly. Ah! The plow was very funny, and each is imagined to see
his master, the paunchy and meticulous annuitant or to the proud old
lady, hooked to the grid, pulling and tugging to open the furrow,
while they, the underdogs, the tenants snapped the whip.

And they
all winked, laughed, clapped their hands to express her joy.

Do you hear, Mrs. Jervis, cried he again, how pertly I am interrogated by this saucy slut?
Why, sauce-box, says he, did not my good mother desire me to take care of you? And have you
not been always distinguished by me, above a common servant? And does your ingratitude upbraid
me for this?

I said something mutteringly, and he vowed he would hear it. I begged excuse; but he insisted
upon it. Why, then, said I, if your honour must know, I said, That my good lady did not desire
your care to extend to the summer-house, and her dressing-room.

Well, this was a little saucy, you'll say--And he flew into such a passion, that I was forced
to run for it; and Mrs. Jervis said, It was happy I got out of the way.

Why what makes him provoke one so, then?--I'm almost sorry for it; but I would be glad to get
away at any rate. For I begin to be more fearful now.

Just now Mr. Jonathan sent me these lines--(Bless me! what shall I do?)

'Dear Mrs. Pamela, Take care of yourself; for Rachel heard my master say to Mrs. Jervis, who,
she believes, was pleading for you, Say no more, Mrs. Jervis; for by G--d I will have her!
Burn this instantly.'

O pray for your poor daughter. Wide left the stables, vomiting into town
for milk cows, herds of goats, the nag of dung. The curtains of dwarf trees that overshadowed
the roads vibrating bells and bells, and cutting off this merry jingle sounded the energetic "arre,
here!" encouraging the beasts reluctant.

At the gates of the barracks saludábanse who went to the city and those who stayed to work the
fields.

- Bon dia we done Deu! [1].

[1] Good morning to give us God!

- Bon dia!

And after this greeting, changed with all the gravity proper to a people who have been in his
veins Moorish blood and can only speak of God with a solemn gesture, it was the silence if you
happened was a stranger, and if intimate, is charged with the purchase of small Valencia objects
for women or for the house.

It was daylight completely.

The space had been cleared of faint mist, night of the wet fields
and murmuring irrigation ditches.

I was going to sunrise. In the red furrows larks flew with the joy of living another day, and
the naughty sparrows perched on the windows yet closed, pecking wood, telling the inside with
its cry of drifters used to cadge 'Up, lazy! To work the land, to eat us !...»

In Toni's shack, known all around for Pimento, had just entered his wife Pepeta, an animated
creature, whitish and flabby flesh in his youth, undermined by anemia,
which was nevertheless the hardest working female entire garden.

At dawn he was back in the market. Got up at three, loaded with baskets Toni picked vegetables
to close the night before between oaths and vows against a crafty life in which both have to
work, and to grope for the path, guided in Dark as the good child of the garden, going to Valencia,
while her husband, that good boy who cost so dear, still snoring
in the hot students, well wrapped in Carrion rugs marriage.

Those who bought vegetables in bulk to resell it to this young woman knew before dawn and was in
the market of Valencia, sitting in their baskets, shivering under the thin and threadbare shawl. I
looked with envy, not realized, those who could drink a cup of coffee to combat the cool morning.
And with the patience of a beast submissive waiting to give him money
for vegetables that had been set in their complex calculations, to
keep Toni and bring the house forward.

After the sale ran back toward his cabin, hoping to save as soon as one hour way.

Came back in office to develop a second industry: after vegetables milk. And pulling the halter
of a cow blonde, who had hit the tail as loving Satellite a playful calf, returned to the city with
his wand under his arm and tin as to serve customers.

La Roche, and dubbed the cow for his blond hair, bellowed sweet, shuddering
under a burlap trappings, hurt by the cool of the morning, turning
his eyes wet towards the hut, he stayed behind with his stable black,
relaxed, in which straw smelly thought with pleasure of the dream
unfulfilled.

Pepeta the herding with his staff. It was getting late, and they would complain about the customers.
And the cow and the calf trotted through downtown Alboraya Road, deep, muddy, deeply furrowed
lanes.

On the slopes side, one arm in the basket and the other swinging, spent endless cigar beads and
spinners of silk, all the virginity of the garden, going to work in factories, leaving with
the flutter of her skirts a trail of chastity rude and rough.

Fields scattered by the blessing of God.

After the trees and houses that blocked the horizon as the sun peeped huge red wafer, horizontal
casting golden needles forced to cover their eyes. The mountains in the background and towers
of the city were taking a rosy tint, the puffs that rowed by coloreábanse sky as skeins of silk
crimson ditches and puddles in the road seemed fishiest fire.

It sounded inside the barracks dragging the broom the clash of crockery, all the noises of
the morning cleaning. Agachábanse women in slopes, taking the basket next to the laundry. Jumped
on the brown paths rabbits, with his devious smile, teaching, to flee, heading for the pink
buttocks the button-shaped tail, and on piles of manure blonde, cock, surrounded by his cloqueantes
odalisques, uttered a cry of jealous sultan, with the ardent pupil chins red with anger.

Pepeta, insensible to this awakening he witnessed daily, continued their march, more more quickly,
on an empty stomach, aching legs and undergarments impregnated a sweat of his own weakness and
poor white blood, that perhaps escaped during for weeks, contravening the rules of nature.

The avalanche of hard working people that was heading to Valencia filled bridges. Pepeta passed
among workers in the suburbs who came to the lunch bag neck slope,
stopped at the octroi of Consumption to take his ticket - a few coins
that all ached on the soul - and went through the deserted streets,
cheering the cowbell de la Rocha with badajeo pastoral melody, sounding
to the sleepy bourgeois with green meadows and idyllic pastoral scenes.

He

had the poor woman parishioners scattered throughout the city.

His departure was a convoluted journey through the streets, stopping before the gates closed,
a knock here, three and ringing away, and always, then the shrill, sharp cry, which seemed impossible
could arise from its poor and satin chest: "The lleeet!" Jug in hand down the maid disheveled
in sandals, with swollen eyes, to receive the milk, or the old caretaker, still with blanket
that had to go to the Mass of the morning.

At eight o'clock, after serving all customers, Pepeta was seen near the neighborhood of Fishermen.

As
also found in the office, poor orchard went bravely into the dirty alleys, which seemed dead
at that hour. Always, on entering, felt a certain uneasiness, instinctive repugnance weak stomach.
But its spirit of honest and sick woman known to overcome this impression,
and continued on with some pride vanity, a pride of female caste,
comforting to see that she, weak and overwhelmed by poverty, was still
superior to others.

In the closed and silent houses came the breath of cheap debauchery, loud and undisguised:
the smell of spicy meat and rotten, wine and sweat.

Through the cracks of doors seemed to escape the brutal breath and sleep after a night landslide
caresses of fierce and drunken amorous whims.

Pepeta heard his name called.

At the door of a ladder beckoning a good girl, bare-chested, ugly,
no other charm than a youth about to disappear, the eyes wet, the
twisted ribbon, and cheeks blush stains from the night before: a cartoon,
a clown for vice.

The styling, pressing his lips with a gesture of pride and disdain
for the distances it was quite clear, he began to milk the udder de
la Rocha inside the jug out to him the girl.

It did not take his view of the peasant.

- Pepeta! - His voice wavering, as if it were not certain that was herself.

Pepeta raised his head, fixed his eyes for the first time in the slut, and seemed to hesitate.

- Rosario! ... Is that you?

Yes, she was, I said with sad nods. And Pepeta immediately expressed amazement. She there! ...
The daughter of parents so honored!

Shame on you, Lord ...

The harlot, by custom of the trade, tried to accommodate with cynical smile, the gesture skeptical
who knows the secret of life and believes in nothing, the exclamations of shocked styling. But
the gaze of the eyes eventually clear Pepeta embarrassing, and lowered head as if to mourn.

No, it was not bad. He had worked in factories, had served as home to a family, but finally
gave her sisters example, tired of being hungry, and there he was,
receiving sometimes affection and other blows, until they burst forever.

It was natural: where no father and mother, the family ends well. Of all his fault the master
of the earth, it Don Salvador, sure to burn in hell. Ah, you thief! ... And how he had lost
whole family!

Forgot Pepeta cold and reserved attitude to join the outrage of the girl. Truth all true, this
guy was to blame greedy. I knew the whole orchard. Good God, and how you lose a house! So
good that Barret was the poor guy! If you raise his head and saw
their daughters!

... They knew in the garden that the poor father had died in prison in Ceuta For two years, and as
to the mother, the old wretch had just suffer in a bed Hospital. The twists and turns the world
in ten years! Who had told them to her and to her sisters, used to
live at home and queens who end up that way?

Lord! Lord! Libradnos a bad person! ...

Rosario was encouraged with the conversation seemed to rejuvenate with this childhood friend.
His eyes, before dying, sparked by remembering the past. And your booth? What land? Remained
abandoned, right? ... This liked: busting, which is the Holy hiciesen the sons of Don Salvador
rascal! ... It was all I could comfort her. I was very grateful Pimento and to all the folks
they had prevented other work that you enter of right belonged to his family. And if someone wanted
to grab something, well known was the remedy .... Pum! A shotgun that break the head.

The girl was whipped up, shining in his eyes sparks of ferocity.

Revived in the harlot passive beast accustomed to the beatings, the
daughter of the garden, which is born from the shotgun hanging behind
the door and holidays and aims to delight the smoke of gunpowder.

After speaking of the sad past, awakens curiosity was wondering Rosario all there, and ended
in Pepeta. Poor thing!

Everyone could see she was not happy. Still young, age revealed only clear those big eyes
virgin, dupes and timid. The body, a mere skeleton, and blonde hair, color of sweet corn, and
appeared gray to handfuls before thirty years. What life gave Pimento? Ever so drunk and fleeing
work?

She had sought, by marrying against the advice of everyone. Good boy, yes, he shook everyone in
the tavern Cup on Sunday afternoon, when he played the trick with the most handsome in the garden,
but at home should be an insufferable husband .... Although In truth,
all men were equal.

If you know it! Dogs that were not worth is worth looking at them. Daughter! And what was the poor
deteriorated Pepeta! ...

A booming voice came down like thunder tomboy through the gap in the ladder.

- Elisa! ... Upload milk soon. The Lord is waiting.

Rosario began to laugh herself. Now called Elisa: Do not you know? Age requirement rename office
and speak with an Andalusian accent. And mimicked with rustic grace the voice of the invisible
tomboy.

But in spite of his joy, was quick to withdraw. He feared the above. The booming voice or The
Lord of the milk could give something bad for his delay.

He climbed the ladder faster, After much to recommend Pepeta that ever pass through there, to
remember together the things from the garden.

The weary bell rang de la Rocha over an hour through the streets of Valencia. Released the withered
teats to milk the last drop of tasteless product of a poor grass leaves cabbage and waste, and
finally undertook Pepeta back to his hut.

The poor peasant walking sad and pensive under the impression that
meeting.

Remembered like it was the day before the terrible tragedy that engulfed the Barret with whole
family.

Since then, the fields over a hundred years ago the ancestors of the poor working labrador had
been left by the wayside. His cabin, deserted, without a hand merciful to cast a patch to
the roof and a handful of mud cracks walls, was sinking slowly.

Ten years of continuous flow together had managed to ruin that people
do not take notice already on it.

Pepeta it had long had not stopped his attention to the old shack. This interest only to the
boys, who, inheriting the hatred of his parents, he plunged into
between the nettles of the barren fields to mow the abandoned house
with stones, breaking the timbers of its closed door, or blind with
dirt and stones that opened well under a very old vines.

But this morning, Pepeta, influenced by his recent encounter, he noticed debris and to stopped
on the way for a better view.

The Barret fields, or rather for her, "the Jew and his unholy Don Salvador heirs "were a blur of
misery amid the fertile garden, worked and smiling. Ten years of neglect had hardened the ground,
drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants, all the thorns which God has created
for the punishment of the farmer.

A dwarf jungle, tangled and misshapen spread over those fields, with a wave of foreign shades
of green, tinged here and there by mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins
and cemeteries.

Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied
all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles with metallic
shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate ditches. There
living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate
world, devouring one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors,
they were respected with a certain reverence, for the seven plagues
of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands
are cursed.

As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco disgusting, and the more the
merrier.

In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful plain as a stain of dirt
in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the cabin, or rather this,
falling, with straw cap of gutted, teaching through the openings pierced
the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.

The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more
than a very slight white spots that exposed the former whitewashed.

The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with cracks that cut from one extreme to another.
Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by gales, hung from one hinge, and were
to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.

Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart. It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out ghosts
in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered,
that the whole bush was hiding under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.

Horrific

images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted even more
dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full of rows
of vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves transparency caramel. Even the birds
fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of the animaluchos that rebullían under brush or
by sniffing the breath of misfortune.

On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of
black wings and treacherous funeral feathers of crows and kites, which
were shaken mute the laden trees of joyful and playful fluttering
PIID, remaining silent the garden, as if there were sparrows half-mile
radius.

Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked through the trees some
fields beyond, but had to lie still on the high side of the road, that he should a cart loaded
advancing stumbling and seemed to come from the city.

Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.

He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard
bumps a tall man who was walking next to him encouraging him with
shouts and pops whiplash.

Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants
corduroy and other details of his suit, which was not betrayed in
the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been contaminated
by the taste of the city.

Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come from the province.

On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles,
all kinds domestic objects.

Was the emigration of an entire family. Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed
corn husk, esparto chairs, pans, kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the
car, dirty, worn out, miserable, smelling famine, to escape desperate,
as if the march unfortunately after nipping family heels.

At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with
wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.

On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching
girl, tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter.

On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle is stopped
in a bad way, was a boy of eleven years.

Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with
poverty, is a man at the age others play.

A dirty little dog panting up the rear.

Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity.
"Where would these poor people?

The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere.

Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted by the myriad branching
paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.

But his curiosity
had an unexpected ending. Jesus! The car left the road, crossing the
dilapidated bridge of logs and earth which gave access to the cursed
land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening their tires brush respected.

The
family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing the
impression that caused him misery, but straight at the wrecked cabin,
and who takes possession of what is yours.

Pepeta not want to see
more. Now I really ran to his hut. Anxious to arrive before left to
the cow and calf, and the two beasts continued their march calmly,
as who does not care about things outside the barn and has insurance.

Pimento
was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring at three
sticks smeared with lime, put in the sun, around which fluttered some
birds. Occupation was a master.

Upon seeing his wife come to the
astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions
to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.

Let's
see, what was that? Have you had stolen the cow? ...

Pepeta, with
emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together.

"The land
of Barret .... An entire family .... Iban to work, to live in the
barracks. She I had seen. "

Pimento, bird hunter with league foe
of labor and terror of the contoured, could not impassive gravity
retain great man at such unexpected news.

- Recontracordóns! ...

Got
a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to run without
waiting for further explanation.

His wife saw how he ran cross country
to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed. Said he, Why you look very serious, Pamela. I see you
can bear malice.--Yes, so I can, sir, said I, according to the occasion! Why, said he, your
eyes always look red, I think. Are you not a fool to take my last freedom so much to heart?
I am sure you, and that fool Mrs. Jervis, frightened me, by your hideous squalling, as much
as I could frighten you. That is all we had for it, said I; and if you could be so afraid of
your own servants knowing of your attempts upon a poor unworthy creature, that is under your
protection while I stay, surely your honour ought to be more afraid of God Almighty, in whose
presence we all stand, in every action of our lives, and to whom the greatest, as well as the
least, must be accountable, let them think what they list.

He took my hand, in a kind of good-humoured mockery, and said, Well urged, my pretty preacher!
When my Lincolnshire chaplain dies, I'll put thee on a gown and cassock, and thou'lt make a
good figure in his place.--I wish, said I, a little vexed at his jeer, your honour's conscience
would be your preacher, and then you would need no other chaplain. Well, well, Pamela, said
he, no more of this unfashionable jargon. I did not send for you so much for your opinion of
my new suit, as to tell you, you are welcome to stay, since Mrs. Jervis desires it, till she
goes. I welcome! said I; I am sure I shall rejoice when I am out of the house!

Well, said he, you are an ungrateful baggage; but I am thinking it would be pity, with these
fair soft hands, and that lovely skin, (as he called it, and took hold of my hand,) that you
should return again to hard work, as you must if you go to your father's; and so I would advise
her to take a house in London, and let lodgings to us members of parliament, when we come to
town; and such a pretty daughter as you may pass for, will always fill her house, and she'll
get a great deal of money.

I was sadly vexed at this barbarous joke; but being ready to cry before, the tears gushed out,
and (endeavouring to get my hand from him, but in vain) I said, I can expect no better: Your
behaviour, sir, to me, has been just of a piece with these words: Nay, I will say it, though
you were to be ever so angry.--I angry, Pamela? No, no, said he, I have overcome all that;
and as you are to go away, I look upon you now as Mrs. Jervis's guest while you both stay,
and not as my servant; and so you may say what you will. But I'll tell you, Pamela, why you
need not take this matter in such high disdain!--You have a very pretty romantic turn for virtue,
and all that.--And I don't suppose but you'll hold it still: and nobody will be able to prevail
upon you. But, my child, (sneeringly he spoke it,) do but consider what a fine opportunity
you will then have for a tale every day to good mother Jervis, and what subjects for letter-writing
to your father and mother, and what pretty preachments you may hold forth to the young gentlemen.
Ad's my heart! I think it would be the best thing you and she could do.

You do well, sir, said I, to even your wit to such a poor maiden as me: but, permit me to say,
that if you was not rich and great, and I poor and little, you would not insult me thus.--Let
me ask you, sir, if you think this becomes your fine clothes, and a master's station: Why so
serious, my pretty Pamela? said he: Why so grave? And would kiss me; but my heart was full,
and I said, Let me alone; I will tell you, if you was a king, and insulted me as you have done,
that you have forgotten to act like a gentleman; and I won't stay to be used thus: I will go
to the next farmer's, and there wait for Mrs. Jervis, if she must go: and I'd have you know,
sir, that I can stoop to the ordinariest work of your scullions, for all these nasty soft hands,
sooner than bear such ungentlemanly imputations.

I sent for you, said he, in high good humour; but it is impossible to hold it with such an
impertinent: however, I'll keep my temper. But while I see you here, pray don't put on those
dismal grave looks: Why, girl, you should forbear them, if it were but for your pride-sake;
for the family will think you are grieving to leave the house. Then, sir, said I, I will try
to convince them of the contrary, as well as your honour; for I will endeavour to be more cheerful
while I stay, for that very reason.

Well, replied he, I will set this down by itself, as the first time that ever what I had advised
had any weight with you. And I will add, said I, as the first advice you have given me of late,
that was fit to be followed.--I wish said he, (I am almost ashamed to write it, impudent gentleman
as he is!) I wish I had thee as quick another way, as thou art in thy repartees--And he laughed,
and I snatched my hand from him, and I tripped away as fast as I could. Ah! thought I, married?
I am sure it is time you were married, or, at this rate, no honest maiden ought to live with you.

Why, dear father and mother, to be sure he grows quite a rake! How easy it is to go from bad
to worse, when once people give way to vice!

How would my poor lady, had she lived, have grieved to see it! but may be he would have been
better then! Though it seems he told Mrs. Jervis, he had an eye upon me in his mother's life-time;
and he intended to let me know as much, by the bye, he told her! Here is shamelessness for
you! Sure the world must be near at an end! for all the gentlemen about are as bad as he almost,
as far as I can hear!--And see the fruits of such bad examples! There is 'Squire Martin in
the grove, has had three lyings-in, it seems, in his house, in three months past; one by himself;
and one by his coachman; and one by his woodman; and yet he has turned none of them away. Indeed,
how can he, when they but follow his own vile example? There is he, and two or three more such
as he, within ten miles of us, who keep company, and hunt with our fine master, truly; and
I suppose he is never the better for their examples. But, Heaven bless me, say I, and send
me out of this wicked house!

But, dear father and mother, what sort of creatures must the womenkind be, do you think, to
give way to such wickedness? Why, this it is that makes every one be thought of alike: And,
alack-a-day! what a world we live in! for it is grown more a wonder that the men are resisted,
than that the women comply. This, I suppose, makes me such a sauce-box, and bold-face, and
a creature, and all because I won't be a sauce-box and bold-face indeed.

But I am sorry for these things; one don't know what arts and stratagems men may devise to
gain their vile ends; and so I will think as well as I can of these poor undone creatures,
and pity them. For you see, by my sad story, and narrow escapes, what hardships poor maidens
go through, whose lot it is to go out to service, especially to houses where there is not the
fear of God, and good rule kept by the heads of the family.

You see I am quite grown grave and serious; indeed it becomes the present condition of Your
dutiful DAUGHTER.

LETTER XXVIII

DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER,

John says you wept when you read my last letter, that he carried. I am sorry you let him see
that; for they all mistrust already how matters are, and as it is no credit that I have been
attempted, though it is that I have resisted; yet I am sorry they have cause to think so evil
of my master from any of us.

Mrs. Jervis has made up her accounts with Mr. Longman, and will stay in her place. I am glad
of it, for her own sake, and for my master's; for she has a good master of him; so indeed all
have, but poor me--and he has a good housekeeper in her.

Mr. Longman, it seems, took upon him to talk to my master, how faithful and careful of his
interests she was, and how exact in her accounts; and he told him, there was no comparison
between her accounts and Mrs. Jewkes's, at the Lincolnshire estate.

He said so many fine things, it seems, of Mrs. Jervis, that my master sent for her in Mr. Longman's
presence, and said Pamela might come along with her; I suppose to mortify me, that I must go
while she was to stay: But as, when I go away, I am not to go with her, nor was she to go with
me; so I did not matter it much; only it would have been creditable to such a poor girl, that
the housekeeper would bear me company, if I went.

Said he to her, Well, Mrs. Jervis, Longman says you have made up your accounts with him with
your usual fidelity and exactness. I had a good mind to make you an offer of continuing with
me, if you can be a little sorry for your hasty words, which, indeed, were not so respectful
as I have deserved at your hands. She seemed at a sad loss what to say, because Mr. Longman
was there, and she could not speak of the occasion of those words, which was me.

Indeed, said Mr. Longman, I must needs say before your face, that since I have known my master's
family, I have never found such good management in it, nor so much love and harmony neither.
I wish the Lincolnshire estate was as well served!--No more of that, said my master; but Mrs.
Jervis may stay, if she will: and here, Mrs. Jervis, pray accept of this, which at the close
of every year's accounts I will present you with, besides your salary, as long as I find your
care so useful and agreeable. And he gave her five guineas.--She made him a low courtesy, and
thanking him, looked to me, as if she would have spoken to me.

He took her meaning, I believe; for he said,--Indeed I love to encourage merit and obligingness,
Longman; but I can never be equally kind to those who don't deserve it at my hands, as to those
who do; and then he looked full on me. Longman, continued he, I said that girl might come in
with Mrs. Jervis, because they love to be always together. For Mrs. Jervis is very good to
her, and loves her as well as if she was her daughter. But else--Mr. Longman, interrupting
him, said, Good to Mrs. Pamela! Ay, sir, and so she is, to be sure! But every body must be
good to her; for----

He was going on: but my master said, No more, no more, Mr. Longman. 

Every day looked the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men in the fields, bent,
eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active arms; Pimento tending to the great man sticks
to the league, hoping to birds, or helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few old
Cup sunbathing or playing trick. The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality was a
Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did not trust, no farmer wanted the land or even for free, and
so the masters had to abandon his efforts, allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack
is shut down, awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping or work.

The garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and
the heirs of Don Salvador became the "holy."

It was a new and intense pleasure. Ever had to impose the poor and the rich get below. And the
drive seemed more delicious bread, good wine, the lighter work, imagining tantrums of two greedy,
that with all his money had to suffer the rustic orchard fun of them.

In addition, this spot of devastation and misery in the midst of the meadow was used for the
other owners were less demanding and taking example in neighboring leases would not increase and it
took up when the semester to take effect.

The desolate fields were the talisman that kept closely united to the huerta, continuous elbows touch,
a monument proclaiming its power over the owners, the miracle of solidarity of misery against the
laws and the wealth of those who are lords of the land without working
or sweat on their lumps.

All this confused thought, made them believe that the day when the fields were Barret cultivated
the garden would suffer all kinds of misfortune. And do not imagine, after a win ten years,
he could enter another person abandoned fields that Tomba, a blind
pastor and talkative, that in the absence of audience, recounted his
daily exploits guerrilla dirty his flock of sheep.

From here the gasps of amazement and anger expression across the garden when Pimento from field
to field and in barracks hut, was making it known that the land had
Barret and tenant, a stranger, and that 'he' ... "Him!" - Whoever
he was - was there with all his family, settling without hesitation
... 'As if it was yours!

"

III

Batiste, to inspect the uncultivated land, there was said to work
for a long time.

Though this could not feel discouraged.

He was an energetic man, entrepreneur, seasoned to the struggle for win the bread. There he was 'very
long', as he said, and also comforted remembering trances that had seen worse.

His past life was a continual change of profession, always within
the circle of misery rural, moving every year automatically, without
a finding for family well-being mean that was all his aspiration.

When he met his wife, was young mill near Sagunto. Then working "Like a wolf" - he said so -
so that your home is not missing anything, and God rewarded his diligence by sending each year
a son, beautiful creatures that seemed to be born with teeth according to the hurry that arose in
the chest maternal leave to ask for bread at all hours.

Result: they had to leave the mill and devoted to roads, in search
of greater profits.

Bad luck pursued him. No one as he tended the cattle and watch the march. Dead dream, never dared,
as partners, to sleep in the car, leaving the animals march guided
by instinct.

Watched at all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes and missteps, and
yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in
spite of paternal care with which he rushed to cover the flanks of
the beasts burlap trappings fell just four drops.

In a few years of strenuous pilgrimage along the roads of the province,
eating bad, sleeping in the open and suffering the torment of spending
months on end away from family, that I love with affection reconcentrated
rude and silent man, only experienced Batiste losses and saw their
situation increasingly compromised.

He died trapped hacks and had to buy others. What it worth continuing swollen skins carrying
wine or oil barges lost in the hands of builders and car, until it was time, seeing next ruin,
left the office.

He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient
carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.

His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at
the sky, trembling with emotion whenever a small black cloud looming
on the horizon.

Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not
know what to do or where to go, when on a trip to Valencia met the
sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless), who gave that beauty
of fields, free lease for two years until they completely regain their
status of other times.

Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful
to keep unproductive land, but after going so long! ... In addition, misery has no ears, he suited
to the fields, and they left. What mattered old stories of Don Salvador and Barret? ...

Forgot everything despised and contemplating their land. And Batiste felt himself possessed of
a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied when he passed the road from
Valencia to Sagunto.

That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless
after another, circling the red water at all hours as life-giving
blood for the many ditches and sprinklers that plied its surface as
a complex network of veins and arteries fertile to feed whole families
with tables, so small, they seemed scarves foliage.

Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.

Now he was really on track. Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have
good will ... And stretching, the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a kindly
face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending his powerful arms, lifted her accustomed
to sacks of flour and the heavy skins of the cart.

So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.

The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on
the slopes, Men stared at him, little boys and even women of the barracks
immediately.

Batiste did ignore them. It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers. He knew
what that was, and would be accustomed. Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned
ten years of neglect had heaped upon the fields of Barret.

And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.

Shrubs, after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred
ashes.

The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps, which aroused anger deaf throughout
the garden.

Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its cultivation. Were harsh; but he,
as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in sections, and setting a box near his hut, he
began to remove the help of his family land.

Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation.
Go a family!

They were gypsies and those who sleep under bridges. They lived in the old barracks the same
as shipwrecked on a ship wrecked endure: plugging a hole here shoring
up there, doing real wonders that would hold up the thatch, distributing
its poor furniture, carefully fregoteados in all rooms, which were
before burrowing mice and bugs.

In point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to sit still while the father
worked. Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and
spade in hand, digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn back by the hair falling
on the red sweaty face.

The eldest son was continuous Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure and
debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance of the building. The three
little ones, serious and laborious, as if they understood the plight
of the family, went to all fours after diggers, tearing lumps of hard
burned shrub roots.

This preparatory task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting family from dawn till night.

Half
of the land was removed. Batiste filed and styled with the help of the old and spirited horse,
which seemed to the family.

Had to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and
the farmer cleared land divided into three parts.

The higher in wheat, a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something
to forget the Morrut, the good old nag.

Well it had won.

And with the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the
port, the family proceeded to planting.

The future was assured. The lands of the garden did not deceive, hence would bread for the whole
year.

The afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward a few sheep of dirty fleece,
fearful that they stopped at the edge of the field.

Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken in the deep
orbits and mouth surrounded by a halo of wrinkles.

Progressed slowly, with steps firm, but with the staff ahead of testing the waters.

The family looked at him intently. Was the only one in the two weeks
that there were dared to approach the land.

Noting the hesitation of his sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.

Batiste

went to meet the old. Could not happen: the lands are now cultivated.

Did not you know? ...

Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks had led his flock to graze the weeds
in the cliff of Carraixet, without worrying about these fields .... Really now they were grown?

And
the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their eyes almost dead bold man who dared
to do what all the garden was as impossible.

He paused a while, and finally began to murmur sadly

"Too bad, he also, in his youth he had been dared: he liked to wear
them all the opposite.

But when too many enemies ... Too bad, she had gone into a difficult step. Those land, after the
poor Barret, were cursed. I could believe him, that was old and experienced,
would bring misfortune.

"

And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and before leaving threw the blanket
back, raising his emaciated arms, and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet
who sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste:

- Creume, fill meu: desgrasia will carry you !...[ 4]

[4] - Believe
me, my son will bring disgrace!

...

From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden. Tomba's uncle could
no longer put the sheep on that land, after ten years of peaceful enjoyment of their pastures.

Nobody
said a word about the legitimacy of the refusal of the occupant to
be the ground cultivated.

All spoke only of the respect he deserved the old minister, a man that in his youth, the French
ate raw, who had seen much of the world, and whose wisdom, demonstrated
average incoherent words and advice, inspired a superstitious respect
to the people of the barracks.

When Batiste and his family were drenched fertile seed the bowels of their land, thought of housing, lack
of work more urgent.

The field would do his duty. It was time to think about themselves.

And for the first time since his arrival in the orchard, land Batiste left to go to Valencia
to charge your car every scrap of the city that might be useful.

The man was a tireless ant to search for it. The mounds formed by Batistet widened considerably with
the father's expeditions. The hump of manure, which was a shade defensively to the hut, grew
rapidly, and beyond hundreds amontonáronse of bricks, rotting timbers,
broken doors, windows made chips, all demolition waste in the city.

People watched in amazement how quickly the garden and good skill of industrious hackers to
fix your home.

The thatched roof of the cabin was suddenly straightened, the ribs of the roof eaten away by the
rains, were reinforced and substituted some other, a layer of fresh straw covered the remaining
two planes abroad. Even the little crosses on the ends were substituted by others that worked
cucamente Batiste knife, decorating its edges with jagged notches, and there was all round roof that
they stood more graceful.

The neighbors, seeing how reformed Barrett's cabin, standing straight cap, saw in this bit of
fun and challenge.

Then began the work below. What a way to use the rubble of Valencia! ... Cracks disappeared,
and finished plaster walls, the wife and daughter the whitewashed dazzling white. The new door
and painted blue, it seemed the mother of all windows, poking through the holes in the walls
its square faces of the same color. Under the vine Batiste made a square, paved with red bricks,
for women to sew there in the afternoon. Well, after a grueling week of declines and carries,
was cleared of all stones and rubbish that the rascals had crowded orchard for ten years, and again
its clean, fresh water rose again in mossy pail with cheerful chirps
of the wheel, which seemed to laugh at people with a raucous contour
old mischievous laugh.

Neighbors devouring rage in silence. Thief, rather than a thief! What a way to work! ... The
man seemed to have with their brawny arms two magic wands that transform all at the touch.

Ten weeks after his arrival, had not yet left their lands half a dozen times. Always on them,
his head between his shoulders and his spine bent, intoxicated in their work, and Barrett's cabin
had a flirtatious and cheerful appearance, as never had been held
by its former occupier.

The yard, surrounded with rotten hurdles before, now had poles and
mud walls, painted white on the edges of chickens running around the
blonde and inflamed the rooster, straightening purple head .... In
the square, opposite the barracks, beds blooming dompedro and vines.

A row of pots painted blue chipped pots served on the bank of red bricks, and through the open
door - ah, blowhard - there was the Cantarera new white sheets with tiles and green jars belly
pan, a set insolent glare and took the view that once ran through
the road.

All in his fury rising, went to Pimento. Could this be pampered?

What did make Pepeta the terrible husband?

And Pimento scratched his face listening to them, with some confusion.

What was I going to do? ... Its purpose was to say two little words to that upstart that was
brought to cultivate what was not theirs, a very serious indication
that "it was not stupid" and again his land, because there had nothing
to do.

But this subject did not come out of their fields, and not thing
was going to threaten him at home.

This would "give the body" too, taking consider what might happen
next.

Had to be cautious and save the output. Anyway ... a little patience. Him, all I could say is
that this subject would not reap the wheat, and beans, and all that was planted in the fields of
Barret. That would be for the devil.

Pimento reassuring words to the neighbors, and they continued with the watchful eye Progress of
the goddam family, wishing silently that soon came when his ruin.

One afternoon he returned Batiste of Valencia, very happy with the results of his trip. I did
not want to arm home pointless. Batistet, when there was work in the field, sought occupation
going into the city to collect manure.

There was the girl, a Bouncers that arrangement ended the cabin, no good for much, and thanks
to the protection of the children of Don Salvador showed that thrilled
with the new tenant just to get that support it in a silk factory.

From the next day, Rosetta would be part of the string of girls, waking
up dawn, going through all the paths with flowing skirt and the basket
to the arm path the city, to spin the silken cocoon between his thick
fingers of daughters of the garden.

Batiste Arriving to the vicinity of the tavern Cup, a man appeared on the road leaving a trail immediately
and marched him slowly, giving to understand their desire talk.

Batiste was stopped inside regretting not carrying not a bad knife
or a sickle, but serene, tranquil, rearing its head round the expression
so feared by pressing his family and across the chest the arms of
former strongman mill boy.

Known to man, although he had never spoken with him. Pimento was.

At
last the encounter occurred had feared.

The bully was measured with
a look at the hated intruder, and spoke with honeyed voice, striving
to give his ferocity and malice in a tone of kindly advice.

I wanted
to tell you two reasons: it had long wanted, but how to do it, if
you never left from their land?

- Two rahonetes not més ... [5]

[5]
- Two razoncitas nothing more ...

And let the couple of reasons,
advising him to leave as soon as the land of Barret. Must believe
the men who loved him well, to those familiar with the customs of
the garden. His presence there was an offense, and the cabin almost
new an insult to the poor people. There to follow his advice and go
elsewhere with his family. 

Batiste Pimento smiled ironically as
he spoke, and he, at last, seemed confused by the serenity of the
intruder, shocked to find a man who felt no fear in his presence.

""
Leaving it? ... There was cute to make him abandon what was his, which
was watered with their sweat and had to give bread to his family.
He was a peaceful man, are we? but if you seek out tickles, was as
brave as they come. Everyone that gets into your business, and he
would rather meet with him without offending anyone. "

Then, past
the bully, went his way, turning away with a confidence derogatory.

Pimento,
accustomed to him tremble all the garden, looked increasingly puzzled
by the serenity of Batiste.

- Is the Darrera paraula [6] - he cried
when he was already at a distance.

[6] - Is the last word?

- Yes,
the Darrera - Batiste replied without turning.

And went ahead, disappearing
around a turn of the road. Far away, in the former barracks Barrett,
sniffing dog barked near his master.

When left alone, Pimento regained
its pride. "Christ! And how he had taunted him Uncle! "muttered some
curses and threatening a fist pointed curve of the road where he had
gone Batiste.

- You will pay me .... I will pay, backpack!

In his
voice trembling with anger, hatred vibrated condensed all of the garden.
 I will, said I, and stepped down; but
that was only a fetch, to take the orders of my master, I found. It seems he said, he thought
two or three times to have burst out upon me; but he could not stand it, and wished I might
not know he was there. But I tripped up again so nimbly, (for there was no paper,) that I just
saw his back, as if coming out of that green-room, and going into the next to it, the first
door that was open--I whipped in, and shut the door, and bolted it. O Mrs. Jervis! said I,
what have you done by me?--I see I can't confide in any body. Eminent there have been some who, in my opinion, have only managed
to embody the virtues and vices, producing types and symbols with speech and figure human: the
hypocritical, the greedy or the misanthrope, but the creative power to reach beyond abstraction,
generalization, a concept distilled and extracted from the real by speech, body and clothing
after the fantasy, and another to produce real individuals, defined, determined, complex in character
and conditions, as are all creatures human life and more and more perfect life than the life
giving nature: this gift, this art few have had as Shakspeare. Ophelia, Desdemona, Juliet, Miranda,
Beatrice, Hero, Lady Macbeth, Othello, Hamlet, Shylock, Falstaff, Iago, and many others, live
in the minds of men with greater firmness and consistency, the most famous and illustrious men who
were in reality: that all the glorious wise, heroes, politicians and captains who lived in the
world, while that these fantastic characters were coming out of Shakspeare's brain, and provided
the elixir of perpetual youth and life, from the year of 1589 to 1614. Then evaporate away,
fade away from such creations, have gained immortal spirit and virtue, have bathed in new splendor,
have been covered with few spells succeeds in creating art human. The sculptor of cast bronze
has been given the body on the marble, the painter spent on them all the excellence of his brushes
and inks richest of his palette, the recorder has exhausted the refinement and mastery of his
chisel, and the musician has sought and found, to express your passions, the most poignant melodies
and harmonies deeper.

Grande has been the value of Shakspeare to achieve this, but it was more his fortune. Who doubt,
however, that fortune is the most powerful element of value?

Faust, Marguerite and Mephistopheles, and Werther and Charlotte, in German literature, and
only D. Quixote, Sancho, Dulcinea and D. Juan Tenorio, in Spanish, are the characters for notoriety,
fame, glory and splendor, can be compared to the characters of Shakspeare,
in other European literatures.

But it depends on that in the dramas of Lope, Tirso, Calderon, Moreto, Alarcón y Rojas, that
throughout our great Spanish drama no more characters D. John, with much encouragement of life,
so predestination for immortality, like the heroes shakspearianos?

The I really do not exist in our great Spanish drama other characters who live like those. Was
decline of our poets or fortune?

Shakspeare wrote for a people who began to be large, which would extend his empire, to improve
their own civilization castiza and to disseminate and enforce it for all regions the world.
As he wrote to the people, wrote inspired and full of thoughts and feelings Village, and his
mind and his works are swollen with the future; contain in germ all the spirit of England
in the day. Our dramatic wrote also for the people inspired and filled with people's feelings,
but of a people who died, of a people castiza and whose civilization itself would disappear, and
whose spirit then there was no be the spirit of today.

Hence, these heroes speak a language they barely understand and Spanish, and express feelings
and ideas that the Spanish themselves and not participate. How, then,
foreigners have to understand, when the Spanish do not understand
yet?

Those poets, however, were also sovereign, but neither they
nor their heroes, can now live as Shakspeare and his family.

I was unable to speak; and he, seeing me too much oppressed with confusion to go on in that
strain, said, Well, Pamela, let me know in what situation of life is your father: I know he
is a poor man; but is he as low and as honest as he was when my mother took you?

Then I could speak a little; and with a down look, (and I felt my face glow like fire,) I said,
Yes, sir, as poor and as honest too; and that is my pride. Says he, I will do something for
him, if it be not your fault, and make all your family happy. All, sir, said I, he is happier
already than ever he can be, if his daughter's innocence is to be the price of your favour:
and I beg you will not speak to me on the only side that can wound me. I have no design of
that sort, said he. O sir, said I, tell me not so, tell me not so!--'Tis easy, said he, for
me to be the making of your father, without injuring you. Well, sir, said I, if this can be
done, let me know how; and all I can do with innocence shall be the study and practice of my
life.--But, O! what can such a poor creature as I do, and do my duty?--Said he, I would have
you stay a week or fortnight only, and behave yourself with kindness to me; I stoop to beg
it of you, and you shall see all shall turn out beyond your expectation. I see, said he, you
are going to answer otherwise than I would have you; and I begin to be vexed I should thus
meanly sue; and so I will say, that your behaviour before honest Longman, when I used you as
I did, and you could so well have vindicated yourself, has quite charmed me. What a feat of yours man! ... All the dirty tricks from him and others neighbors
had only served to take the life of a poor little boy. And according to his custom in the dark
days when he knitted his brows a concern, he went to the tavern, looking for the consolations which
he kept in his famous Cup boot in the corner.

At ten o'clock, when Pepeta with her two companions returned to Valencia,
was the crowded barracks.

Some men of more phlegmatic, "men of the house ', which had just taken part in the crusade against
outsiders, formed a circle with Batiste in the door of the hut: a
squat, to the Moor, others sitting in rush-chair, smoking and talking
slowly weather and crops.

Inside, women and more women around wringing her to bed, overwhelmed with his mother talk, talking some of
the children who lost Babi, installed new ones in the corners as at home, repeating all the
gossip of the neighborhood. That day was special; never mind that their barracks were dirty
and the food to be done: he had an excuse, and creatures, clinging
to her skirts, crying and stunned by his cries, wanting a return to
house, asking them to teach others the "Bishop.

Some old had taken out of the cupboard, and every moment preparing large vessels water with wine and
sugar, offering them to Teresa and her daughter to cry more "relief." And when the poor, swollen
by the flood and sugar, they refused to drink, the informal Wives
were in turn throwing the gullet soft drinks, because they also needed
pass disgust.

Pepeta he began to cry and want to impose their authority on this
confusion.

"People out here! Instead of being annoying, they had to do was bring the two poor women, exhausted
pain, so noisy idiots. "

Teresa refused to leave her child if only for a short time, soon cease to view, that does not steal
the time left to contemplate his treasure. And bursting in stronger wailing, rushed on the cold
body, wanting to embrace him.

But the pleas of his daughter and will Pepeta were stronger, and escorted by many women, left
the hut with the apron on the face, moaning, staggering, not paying attention to which she pulled
in contention for the each to take home.

Pepeta began arranging the funeral pomp. First placed in the center of the entrance the white
pine table where the family ate, covering it with a sheet and fixing ends with pins. Handed
over a starched lace coverlet, and laid upon it the small coffin
brought from Valencia, cute, all the neighbors who admired: a white
box gold braid, fluffy inside like a cradle.

Pepeta pulled from an envelope the latest trappings of dead child: a habit of woven gauze silver
threads, sandals, a garland of flowers, all white, curly snow, as
the light of dawn, which symbolized purity of Albat poor.

Slowly, lovingly maternal, was shrouding the corpse.

I pressed the little body against cold his chest with outbursts of passion sterile, introduced
in the stiff little arms to shroud scrupulous care, such as broken glass that could crack the
slightest blow, and kissed their feet fixed to ice before pulling on his shoes.

On his arms, like a white dove stiff with cold, the poor Pascualet moved to the box to that altar erected
in the middle of the hut, before which he was going to spend all the garden attracted by curiosity.

I
still was not all; missing the best part: the wreath, a bonnet of
white flowers with hanging hanging over the ears, an ornament of savage,
like the Indians to the theater.

The Pepeta pious hand, engaged in tenacious battle with death, tinted the pale cheeks with pink
blush, the mouth of the dead child, blackened, was revived under a layer on vermilion, but
struggled in vain to open the simple peasant inordinately their loose
eyelids.

Fell again, covering the eyes dull, scrim, without reflection, with the gray sadness death.

Poor Pascualet! ... Unhappy rump! With its extravagant wreath and his face was painted made a mess.
More painful tenderness inspired his pale head, with the green of death, crash on the pillow
of his mother, without her blond hair ornaments.

But this did not prevent good vegetable garden is excited about his work. "Look at him! ... If you
seemed to be asleep! So beautiful! !...» Rosy as had ever been seen as the "Bishop.

Flower-filled holes of box: white flowers on the clothing, flowers scattered on the table, stacked
to form branches at the ends.

It was the whole valley hugging the body of that child who had so often seen jumping the trails
like a bird spreading his cold body on a wave of scents and colors.

The two younger brothers to Pascualet looked stunned, with devotion, as a superior being he was about
to take flight from one moment to another. The dog was about the funeral bier, stretching his
nose, trying to lick wax cold little hands, and burst into a cry almost human a cry of despair
that nerve to put women and had they pursued kicks to the poor beast.

At noon, Teresa, escaping almost by main force that kept captive in the neighbors, he returned
to the barracks. His mother's affection made her feel a great satisfaction to the trappings
of small. He kissed her face painted, and redoubled her sobs.

It was lunchtime. Batistet and younger siblings, in which pain could not silence stomach, ate
a morsel hidden in corners. Teresa and her daughter did not think eat. The father, still sitting
on a rush-chair under the bower of the door smoked cigarette after cigarette, impassive as an Oriental,
turning his back to his home, as if afraid to see the white coffin that served as an altar to the
dead body of her son.

Afternoon were still more numerous visits. The women came in the garb of Holidays, put blanket
to attend the funeral, the girls disputábanse with Tenacity being one of the four who had to
carry the poor "Bishop to the cemetery.

Walking slowly down the side of the road and fleeing from the dust as a mortal danger, was a great
visit: Joaquin and Dona Pepa, the teacher and his "lady." That afternoon, during the "unfortunate
event" - his words - there were no school. While watching the mob is guessed bold boys and sticky
that were creeping into the cabin, and tired of looking, picking
his nose, the body of his companion, went out to chase down the road
immediately or to jump the ditches.

Doña Josefa, dressed somewhat threadbare wool blanket and a large black and yellow, solemnly entered
the cabin, and after some colorful phrases to catch the fleeting
her husband, robust humanity up residence in a rope chair and stood
there, dumb as sleepy, staring at the coffin.

The good woman, accustomed to hear and admire her spouse, no could follow a conversation.

The teacher, who wore his green casaquilla days of great ceremony and tie most size, sat outside,
next to the father. His big hands of the grower had sheathed in black gloves that had turned
gray with age, being colored wing fly and continuously moving, eager to draw attention to your
clothes for great occasions.

To Batiste also drew the flower and sound of his style. It was his best customer, or on Saturday
had failed to deliver his sons the two rooms for the school.

- This is the world, Mr. Bautista, must resign!

We never know what the plans of God, and often brings good from evil for creatures.

Interrupting his string of platitudes, such pompously, as if in the school, he said softly,
his eyes twinkle mischievously:

- Have you noticed, Mr. Bautista, in all these people? ... Yesterday you talked pests and family,
and God knows that on many occasions I have criticized this evil.

Enter today this house with the same confidence in his and overwhelm them in so many signs of
affection. Misfortune makes you forget, they approach you.

And after a pause, in which he remained head down, pounding his chest
said:

- Believe me, I know them well: at the bottom are good people.

Very gross, yes, capable of the greatest atrocities, but with a heart that is moved by the plight
and makes them hide the claws ... Poor people! What crime have if they were born to live like animals
and no one takes out of his condition?

He paused a while, then added, with the fervor of a merchant who praises
his wares:

- Here is what is needed is education, much instruction.

Temples to disseminate knowledge the light of science by the meadow, torches ... that ...
In short, if they were smaller to my temple, I say to my school, and parents, instead of getting
drunk, should pay on time like you, Mr. Bautista, otherwise it would
run.

I say no more, because I do not offend.

It was in danger, as near his person were a lot of parents sent him disciples without the burden of
the two rooms.

Other peasants, who had shown great hostility against the family, dared not reach the cabin and
stood on the road, forming a circle. Pimento walked there, who had just come from the tavern
with five musicians, the conscience after being for several hours at the desk Cup

More and more people flocked to the booth.

There was no free space within it, and women and children would eat on the banks of bricks, under
the arbor, or on the slopes, waiting the time of burial.

Within laments sounded, a voice such strong advice, a rumor control. Was wanting Pepeta Teresa
separate the body of his son. We ... had to be reasonable: the Albat could not stay there forever,
it was getting late, and soon pass ordeals.

And the mother struggled to separate it from the coffin, to compel her to get in the students and
not witness the terrible moment of departure, when the Albat, lifted shoulders increases flying
with the white wings of her shroud, never to return.

- Fill meu! ... Sa king mare! [21] - moaned poor Teresa.

[21] - My son ... King of his mother!

No longer would be more: a kiss ... another.

And the head, more and more cold and pale in spite of rouge moved from side to side of the pillow,
shaking his crown of flowers, among the eager hands the mother and
sister, who disputed the last kiss.

On the outskirts of town was awaiting the vicar with the sacristan and altar servers: For them
it was not expected.

Pepeta was impatient. "Inside, inside!" And aided by other women, Teresa and her daughter were
put almost by main force in the students, turning disheveled, eyes red from crying, chest
beating pulse of a protest to painful no longer moaning, but howled.

Four girls with hollow skirt, silk scarf falling over her eyes and modest and monkish air, grabbed
the legs of the table, lifting all white catafalque.

As the shot salutes the flag being raised, heard a strange cry, prolonged, horrifying, something
that Many did run cold shoulders. It was the dog laying off the poor "Bishop, launching a interminable
whining, tearful eyes and legs outstretched, as if to prolong the
body where their cry came.

Outside Joaquin care slapping "Let's see ...! Does any school!

"People the way he had approached the hut. Pimento captained his friends the musicians; they prepared
their tools to greet the "Bishop just transposed the door, and between
clutter and noise that the procession was forming warbling clarinet,
was scales, the cornet and trombone as a fat old man snorted and asthma.

The

youngsters set off, carrying aloft large bouquets of basil. Don Joaquín knew how to do things. After
breaking the crowd, appeared four maidens holding the white and light altar on which the poor
"Bishop was lying in his coffin, shaking his head slightly back and forth, as if they dismiss the shack.

The
musicians broke into a waltz playing playful and happy, standing behind the coffin, and abalanzáronse
after them down the road, forming tight groups all the curious.

The barracks, throwing away her digestion of the crowd, stood silent, dark, with that environment
grim places where unfortunately just passed.
Batiste, just beneath the vine, without abandoning their impassive
oriental posture, biting his cigar, eyes following the progress of
the procession. It began to wave the big road, marking the coffin
and coffin like a huge white dove among the parade of clothes black
and green branches.

Well undertook the poor the way to heaven "Bishop
of the innocent! The valley, stretching voluptuous kiss under the
spring sun, the dead child wrapped with fragrant breath, accompanied
him to the grave, covering it with icing shroud of perfumes. The old
trees, that germinated with a sap of resurrection, appeared to greet
the small body shaking branches in the breeze laden with flowers.
Death never happened on earth in disguise so beautiful.

Disheveled
and roaring like crazy, waving his arms wildly, appeared at the door
of the cabin the two unhappy women. Their voices like a groan endless
prolongábanse in the quiet atmosphere of the valley, marked by soft
light.

- Fill meu! ... Mehu Anima! [22] - wailed the poor Teresa
and her daughter.

[22] - My son ... My soul!

- Goodbye, Pascualet!
... Bye - shouted sips tears.

- Auuu! Auuu! - Howling dog, tending
his nose with a whimper endless twitching nerves and the valley seemed
to shake under a shiver funeral.

And from afar, through the branches,
crawling over the green waves of the fields, answered echoes of a
waltz that was accompanying the poor "Bishop to eternity, swinging
your basket braided white gold. Convoluted scales of the cornet, his
antics diabolical seemed a laugh death metal, with the child in her
arms away through the splendors of the valley.

In the late afternoon
were returning the courtship.

The small, deprived of sleep by the
upheavals of the previous night, they had visited death, slept on
the chairs. Teresa and her daughter, rendered by the crying, exhausted
energy after many sleepless nights had finally become inert, falling
on that bed that still had the imprint of the poor child.

  Pray for her wish'd content and peace;
  And rest assur'd she'll never cease,
  To pray for all your joys increase,
  While life is lent to PAMELA.

           XIV.

  On God all future good depends:
  Serve him.  And so my sonnet ends,
  With, thank ye, thank ye, honest friends,
  For all your loves to PAMELA,

Here it is necessary the reader should know, that the fair Pamela's trials were not yet over;
but the worst were to come, at a time when she thought them at an end, and that she was returning
to her father: for when her master found her virtue was not to be subdued, and he had in vain
tried to conquer his passion for her, being a gentleman of pleasure and intrigue, he had ordered
his Lincolnshire coachman to bring his travelling chariot from thence, not caring to trust
his Bedfordshire coachman, who, with the rest of the servants, so greatly loved and honoured
the fair damsel; and having given him instructions accordingly, and prohibited the other servants,
on pretence of resenting Pamela's behaviour, from accompanying her any part of the road, he
drove her five miles on the way to her father's; and then turning off, crossed the country,
and carried her onwards toward his Lincolnshire estate.

It is also to be observed, that the messenger of her letters to her father, who so often pretended
business that way, was an implement in his master's hands, and employed by him for that purpose;
and always gave her letters first to him, and his master used to open and read them, and then
send them on; by which means, as he hints to her, (as she observes in her letter XXX) he was
no stranger to what she wrote. Thus every way was the poor virgin beset: And the whole will
shew the base arts of designing men to gain their wicked ends; and how much it behoves the
fair sex to stand upon their guard against artful contrivances, especially when riches and
power conspire against innocence and a low estate.

A few words more will be necessary to make the sequel better understood. The intriguing gentleman
thought fit, however, to keep back from her father her three last letters; in which she mentions
his concealing himself to hear her partitioning out her clothes, his last effort to induce
her to stay a fortnight, his pretended proposal of the chaplain, and her hopes of speedily
seeing them, as also her verses; and to send himself a letter to her father, which is as follows:

'GOODMAN ANDREWS,

'You will wonder to receive a letter from me. But I think I am obliged to let you know, that
I have discovered the strange correspondence carried on between you and your daughter, so injurious
to my honour and reputation, and which, I think, you should not have encouraged, till you knew
there were sufficient grounds for those aspersions, which she so plentifully casts upon me.
Something possibly there might be in what she has written from time to time; but, believe me,
with all her pretended simplicity and innocence, I never knew so much romantic invention as
she is mistress of. In short, the girl's head's turned by romances, and such idle stuff, to
which she has given herself up, ever since her kind lady's death. And she assumes airs, as
if she was a mirror of perfection, and every body had a design upon her.

'Don't mistake me, however; I believe her very honest, and very virtuous; but I have found
out also, that she is carrying on a sort of correspondence, or love affair, with a young clergyman,
that I hope in time to provide for; but who, at present, is destitute of any subsistence but
my favour: And what would be the consequence, can you think, of two young folks, who have nothing
in the world to trust to of their own to come together with a family multiplying upon them
before they have bread to eat.

'For my part, I have too much kindness to them both, not to endeavour to prevent it, if I can;
and for this reason I have sent her out of his way for a little while, till I can bring them
both to better consideration; and I would not, therefore, have you be surprised you don't see
your daughter so soon as you might possibly expect.

'Yet I do assure you, upon my honour, that she shall be safe and inviolate; and I hope you
don't doubt me, notwithstanding any airs she may have given herself, upon my jocular pleasantry
to her, and perhaps a little innocent romping with her, so usual with young folks of the two
sexes, when they have been long acquainted, and grown up together; for pride is not my talent.

'As she is a mighty letter-writer, I hope she has had the duty to apprise you of her intrigue
with the young clergyman; and I know not whether it meets with your countenance: But now she
is absent for a little while, (for I know he would have followed her to your village, if she
had gone home; and there, perhaps, they would have ruined one another, by marrying,) I doubt
not I shall bring him to see his interest, and that he engages not before he knows how to provide
for a wife: And when that can be done, let them come together in God's name, for me.

'I expect not to be answered on this head, but by your good opinion, and the confidence you
may repose in my honour: being

                                   'Your hearty friend to serve you.'

'P. S. I find my man John has been the manager of the correspondence, in which such liberties
have been taken with me. I shall soon, in a manner that becomes me, let the saucy fellow know
how much I resent his part of the affair. It is hard thing, that a man of my character in the
world should be used thus freely by his own servants.'

It is easy to guess at the poor old man's concern, upon reading this letter from a gentleman
of so much consideration. He knew not what course to take, and had no manner of doubt of his
poor daughter's innocence, and that foul play was designed her. 

The life-giving blood of the garden was away, to other fields whose owners had the misfortune to be
hated, and his poor wheat there, wrinkling, languishing, shaking her hair green as if making signs
to the water to be approached and stroked with a cool kiss.

A Batiste thought the sun was hotter than other days.

The sun fell on the horizon and yet, the poor farmer imagined that its rays were vertical and burned
everything.

Their land was cracking, cracks opened in tortuous, forming a thousand mouths waiting in vain
a sip.

Wheat would not hold your thirst until the next irrigation. Dry before you die, the family
would not have bread, and after so much misery, above fine! ... And yet say if the men are lost? ...

She
moved furiously on the edge of your patch. "Ah, Pimento! Great rascal!
... If Civil Guard had! "

As the castaways dying of hunger and thirst, in his delusions only see tables feast and very
clear streams, Batiste looked imagination with wheat fields green stems and upright, and water
to gush coming from the mouths of the slopes, ranging with a tremor
of light, as if laughing softly as he felt the tickle of a parched
land.

At sunset, Batiste experienced some relief, as if the star is extinguished forever and their harvest
was saved.

He walked away from their fields, their barracks, going down the road insensible, with slow,
Cup to the tavern no longer believed in the existence of the Civil
Guard and warmly welcomed the possibility of an encounter with Pimento,
which should not walk away from the tavern.

They came to him by the roadside the quick beads for girls, basket on his arm and skirt hovering,
back from the factories of the city.

The garden under the blue twilight.

In the background, on the dark mountains, coloreábanse clouds with
distant glow of fire, by the sea trembled at infinity the first stars,
barking dogs sadly, with the monotonous chant of frogs and crickets
confused the invisible car screech away by all the great roads plain.

Batiste she saw her daughter, separated from the other girls, walking
with step lazy.

Alone can not.

He thought he saw talking to a man, who followed the same direction
as her, though separate, as the bride and groom are always in the
garden, because the approach is for them sign of sin.

Batiste to distinguish in the way the man was delaying his departure
and was far when Rosetta was near his father.

He remained motionless, with the hope that the stranger go ahead, to know.

- Bona nit, Sinor Batiste!

It was the same voice that had greeted shy at noon: the grandson of
old Tomba.

This lad appeared to have no other occupation than wandering on the roads to greet and splinter
by soft sweet eyes.

Looked at his daughter, who lowered her eyes reddened.

- A house to house!

I t'arreglaré!.

And with the terrible majesty of the Latin father, absolute master
of his children more likely to instill fear to inspire affection,
began to walk followed by the trembling Rosetta, which, when approaching
to his cabin, believed to march to a safe hiding.

He was wrong. The poor father had no more children at that time in the world that their harvest
diseased wheat, wrinkled, thirsty, calling him screaming for a drink to stay alive.

And in this thought while his wife arranged dinner. Rosetta went from side to side pretending
occupations to avoid attention, expecting at any moment the outbreak of cholera paternal. And
Batiste was thinking in his field, sitting at the bedside dwarf,
surrounded by his family often, than to light the lamp looked greedily
a steaming pot cod with potatoes.

The woman sighed still thinking about the fine, and certainly provided comparisons fabulous amount
they were going to tear and the relief with which he moved his entire family jaws.

Batiste just ate, occupied in contemplating the voracity of their own. Batistet, the eldest son
to be seized with feigned distraction of small crumbs.

A Rosetta, fear gave him a ferocious appetite.

Never Batiste then realized the burden on their backs.

Those mouths that opened to swallow up the meager savings of the
family would be without food if came out to dry.

And all for what?

For the wickedness of men, because there are laws to harass workers honest .... Should not pass
through it. His family before anyone else. Was not ready to defend his men of the greatest
dangers? Did not he have a duty to keep them?

... Man was he able to become a thief to feed them.

Why should I submit, when it was not to steal, but the salvation of his own, than it was all
his own?

The image of the ditch at a short distance caudal dragging its whispering to others was for him a
martyr. Enfurecíale life pass her door without being able to take advantage, because they wanted
the laws.

Suddenly he rose, like a man who adopts a resolution, and to do it tramples all:

- A water! To water!

The woman was frightened, realizing all the danger instantly so desperate resolution. "By God,
Batiste!

... Would impose a higher fine, perhaps the court, offended by default, to take from the water
forever. Had to think about .... It was better to wait. "

But Batiste had strong anger and phlegmatic phlegmatic men that when they lose calm take long
to recover.

- A water! To water!

And Batistet, gleefully repeating the words of his father, took the
hoe and left the barracks followed by his sister and the kids.

Everyone wanted to take part in this study, which looked like a party.

The family felt the joy of a people to rebellion gains his freedom.

All went into the ditch, murmuring in the shade.

The vast plain lost in blue gloom cañares waving, as rumors and dark masses, and the stars
twinkled in black space.

Batiste went into the ditch to the knees, placing the barrier that had to stop water, while his
son, his wife and even his daughter attacked with spades the bank, opening gaps where irrigation
came in spurts.

The whole family felt a sense of freshness and wellbeing.

The earth sang with a sweet joy glu-glu which reached the heart to all of them. "Baby, baby,
poor thing!" And his feet sinking in the mud, Bent going side to side the field to see if the water
was everywhere.

Batiste roared with cruel satisfaction that produces the joy of the forbidden. What weight is removed
off me ... Could the court now come and do what they wanted. Drank his field; this was important.

And
as his fine ear of a man accustomed to solitude thought he heard a disturbing rumor in neighboring
cañares, ran to the cabin, to return immediately clutching his shotgun new.

With the gun on the arm and finger on the trigger, was more than an hour beside the barrier
of the canal.

The water did not go forward, poured in the fields of Batiste, who drank and drank the thirst
of dropsy.

Perhaps complained below, perhaps Pimento, warned as "atandador" haunted
by Nearby, outraged by the insolent attack upon the law.

But there was Batiste as a sentinel of his crop, desperate hero of
the struggle for life, keeping his men, who were moving about extending
the irrigation field, ready to drop a shotgun at first tried to take
the course by restoring barrier water law.

His attitude was so fierce standing upright in the middle of the canal, could be glimpsed in this
black ghost to receive such resolution shots that show, nobody left the cañares immediate and
drank their fields for an hour without any protest.

And what's more strange: the following Thursday, the "atandador" did
not appear before the Tribunal de las Aguas.

The garden had learned that in the former barracks of Barrett the only valuable was a double-barreled
shotgun, purchased recently by the intruder with passion African
of Valencia, who are deprived of bread glad to have behind the door
of your house a new weapon that will excite and inspire envy respect.

V

Every day at dawn, jumped out of bed Rosetta, daughter of Batiste, and eye sleep-swollen, extending
the arms with gentle stretches that shook all slender blond body, he opened the door of the hut.

Screamed
the pulley of the well, barking jumping for joy with her skirts the
ugly tyke who spent the night outside the barracks, and Rosetta, by
the light of the latest stars, cast face and hands for a bucket of
cold water taken out of that hole round and dark, crowned on top by
thick tufts of ivy.

Then, to light the candle, paced the cabin preparing for the journey to Valencia.

Her mother still did not see it from the bed to make all sorts of directions. Could be the leftovers
from dinner with this and three sardines would find in the Vasari had enough. Beware of breaking
the pot, like the other day. Ah! And do not forget to buy yarn needles
and espadrilles to the child.

Destrozona creature! ... In the drawer of the table find the money.

And while the mother went for a walk on the bed, gently caressed by the warmth of the students, proposing
to sleep half an hour along with big Batiste, who was snoring loudly, Rosetta followed their progress.
Placed the food in a basket miserable, spent a comb through the a blond hair, as if the sun had
eaten its color, knotted handkerchief under beard, and before going
back with a caring older sister to see if the boys were well covered,
worried about the little people, sleeping on the floor of his study,
and lying in order from largest to smallest - from the giant to the
little Batistet barely spoke - it seemed a pipe organ.

- Well, goodbye.

To nit! - Shouted the spirited girl from her arm through the handle of the basket, and closed the
door of the barracks, throwing the wrench at the bottom crack.

It was daylight. Under the steely light of dawn could be seen in the paths and roads laborious parade
going in one direction, attracted by the life of the city.

Graceful groups spent spinners with equal step, gracefully moving arm right, cutting the air
like an oar, and screaming all in chorus each time a tall boy hailed from the neighboring
fields with loving words.

Rosetta walked alone into the city.

The poor knew they were her friends, daughters and sisters of the enemies of his family.

Several of them worked in his factory, and the poor blonde, more than
once, making gut heart, he had to defend to scrape clean.

Taking advantage of their carelessness, showed infect things in their food basket, break the pot had
done several times and not passed along to it in the workshop but would stop pushing for the smoking
pot where the bud was drowned, and devote wolverine calling other similar praise to his family.

On the way all of them fled as a troop of furies, and only felt calm to be within the factory, an
old mansion near the market, whose facade, painted al fresco in the
eighteenth century, still preserved among certain groups chipping
and cracking Pink legs and faces in profile bed, remnants of medallions
and mythological paintings.

Rosetta gives the whole family was the closest to his father: "a beast for the job" as Batiste
told himself.

The steam burning of pots where the cocoon subíasele drowning at the head, scald the eyes, but
in spite of this, remained firmly in place, looking at the bottom of the boiling water up the
loose ends of those flabby tissue capsules of a light caramel color, into which death had scorched
the worm laborious baba precious larvae for the crime of making a rich dungeon for processing butterfly.

A
reigned in the big house deafening roar and tiring work for the daughters of orchard, accustomed
to the calm of the vast plain, where the voice is transmitted to huge distances. Roared down
the steam, giving snorting appalling that were transmitted by multiple pipes, rolling pulleys
and winches with a cacophony of a thousand devils, and if not sufficed
much noise, the spinners, as traditional custom, singing along with
a nasal voice Our Father, Hail Mary and the Gloria Patri, with the
same tune of the named Rosario of Aurora, procession parades through
the paths of the garden on Sunday at dawn.

This devotion did not prevent it riesen singing, and so on, between
prayer and prayer, bespoken to be insulted and four scratches to the
output, because these girls brunette, enslaved by the rigid tyranny
that reigns in the family and forced laborers of concern for inheritance
to be always before men with downcast eyes, there were real demons
to be together and without restraint, indulging their tongues drop
everything heard on the roads roads and farmers.

Rosetta was the
most quiet and industrious. To not be distracted at work, he refrained
from singing and never caused strife. Had such an easy to learn all
that he earned a few weeks three reals a day, almost the maximum of
wages, with great envy of the others.

While girls disheveled bands
came from the factory to lunchtime to swallow the contents of their
pots in the immediate content, harassing men with eyes insolent to
say something and scream them after falsely outraged by undertaking
with them a shameless shooting, Rosetta stayed in a corner of the
shop sitting on the floor, with two or three young men who were of
another garden, on the right bank of the river and damned if they
were interested in the history of Barret and hatred of their peers.

In
the first weeks, with some terror Rosetta saw the arrival of dusk,
and with it the departure time ...

Fearing companions who followed
the same road, entertained at the factory some time leaving them out
in front like a whirlwind, which departed outrageous laughter, fluttering
skirts, daring and smell dicharachos health of members harsh and hard.

Lazily
walked through the streets of the city during the cold winter sunsets,
shopping the orders of his mother, stopping captivated by the shop
windows began to glow, and finally, crossing the bridge, got into
the dark alleys of the slums to exit Alboraya the road.

So far so
good. But after dark fell in the garden, with its mysterious noises,
their black bodies and alarming passing greeting her with a "Bona
nit!" gloomy, and began for her fear and chattering teeth.

Not intimidated
by the silence and darkness. As a good daughter of the field, was
used to them. The certainty that they would find one on the road would
have given confidence. In his terror, never thought, as her companions
in death, or witches and ghosts. The were worried that the living.

He
recalled with horror stories of the garden some hearing in the factory:
the fear of girls Pimento and other jaques to those who gathered at
the home of FIFA: thugs who take advantage of darkness, pushing the
girls alone at the bottom of the shower dry or made them falling behind
the barns. And Rosetta, which was no longer innocent after its entry
into the factory, let your imagination run wild to the limits of what
horrible, seeing killed by one of these monsters, his belly sliced
​​open and the inside as well as children they were talking about
the legends of the garden, to which a mysterious executioner drew
the shortenings, preparing miracle drug for the rich.

In the twilight
of winter, dark and often wet, shivering saved Rosetta more than halfway.
But the cruelest trance, the most formidable obstacle was almost eventually
close and your cabin, and was the famous Tavern Cup

My master was above stairs, and never asked to see me. I was glad of it in the main; but he
knew, false heart as he is, that I was not to be out of his reach.--O preserve me, Heaven,
from his power, and from his wickedness!

Well, they were not suffered to go with me one step, as I writ to you before; for he stood
at the window to see me go. And in the passage to the gate, out of his sight, there they stood
all of them, in two rows; and we could say nothing on both sides, but God bless you! and God
bless you! But Harry carried my own bundle, my third bundle, as I was used to call it, to the
coach, with some plumb-cake, and diet-bread, made for me over-night, and some sweet-meats,
and six bottles of Canary wine, which Mrs. Jervis would make me take in a basket, to cheer
our hearts now and then, when we got together, as she said. And I kissed all the maids again,
and shook hands with the men again: but Mr. Jonathan and Mr. Longman were not there; and then
I tripped down the steps to the chariot, Mrs. Jervis crying most sadly.

I looked up when I got to the chariot, and I saw my master at the window, in his gown; and
I courtesied three times to him very low, and prayed for him with my hands lifted up; for I
could not speak; indeed I was not able: And he bowed his head to me, which made me then very
glad he would take such notice of me; and in I stepped, and was ready to burst with grief;
and could only, till Robin began to drive, wave my white handkerchief to them, wet with my
tears: and, at last, away he drove, Jehu-like, as they say, out of the court-yard. And I too
soon found I had cause for greater and deeper grief.

Well, said I to myself, at this rate I shall soon be with my dear father and mother; and till
I had got, as I supposed, half-way, I thought of the good friends I had left: And when, on
stopping for a little bait to the horses, Robin told me I was near half-way, I thought it was
high time to wipe my eyes, and think to whom I was going; as then, alack for me! I thought.
So I began to ponder what a meeting I should have with you; how glad you'd both be to see me
come safe and innocent to you, after all my dangers: and so I began to comfort myself, and
to banish the other gloomy side from my mind; though, too, it returned now and then; for I
should be ungrateful not to love them for their love.

Well, I believe I set out about eight o'clock in the morning; and I wondered and wondered,
when it was about two, as I saw by a church dial, in a little village as we passed through,
that I was still more and more out of my knowledge. Hey-day, thought I, to drive this strange
pace, and to be so long a going a little more than twenty miles, is very odd! But to be sure,
thought I, Robin knows the way.

At last he stopped, and looked about him, as if he was at a loss for the road; and I said,
Mr. Robert, sure you are out of the way!--I'm afraid I am, said he. But it can't be much; I'll
ask the first person I see. Pray do, said I; and he gave his horses a mouthful of bay: and
I gave him some cake, and two glasses of Canary wine; and stopt about half an hour in all. 

There were not few the din and confusion on Sunday afternoon. Over thirty girls agolpábanse with their
pitchers, all of them eager to be the first to fill, but hurry to leave. Empujábanse in the
narrow stairway, with skirts tucked between legs to tilt and sink her pitcher into the small pond.
He trembled with bubbles constantly emerging aquatic background beach, where bunches of plants
growing gelatinous green wavy hair, moving in its liquid crystal prison pulses of current. The insects
called "weavers" restless legs streaked with the clear surface.

Those who had already filled their pitchers would eat at the edges of the raft, with legs hanging
over the water, shrugging then with outraged cries each time a boy to drink and looked down
to the top.

It was a rowdy meeting of sparrows. All spoke at once, some are insulted, others were peeling away
to the public by all the scandals of the garden. Youth Free paternal severity, showed the hypocritical
gesture made to the house and was shown with all the aggressiveness of a rough lack of expansion.
Those dark angels, how joys and letrillas sang softly in the church to celebrate the holidays Alboraya
of single women, single and nuanced enardecíanse to his conversation with the votes of road, talking
internal things with the aplomb of a midwife.

Rosetta fell there with her pitcher, without having found her boyfriend on the road, notwithstanding
that walked slowly, often turning his head, expecting every moment
to come out a path.

The noisy gathering of the source then was silent at the sight.

Caused astonishment at first Rosetta presence: something like the entry of a Moor in the church
in the middle Alboraya mass. "What was there that" hungry »?...

Rosetta
waved to two or three that were in his factory, and only if you answered
by pressing the lips and a jingle of contempt.

Others, responses of surprise, kept talking, as if nothing had happened, not wanting grant to
the intruder or the honor of silence.

Rosetta lowered to the fountain, and then fill the jar, pulled out,
to sit up, his head over the wall, glancing anxiously throughout the
meadow.

- Look, look, not vindrá [13].

[13] - Look, look, it will not come.

Pimento was a niece, the daughter of a sister Pepeta, that said this;
Morenilla nervously nose rolled up or insolent, proud to be one at
home and that his father was not no tenant, because the four fields
that were worked very own.

Yes, I could look all he wanted, he would not come.

Do not know the other whom he expected? Well to her boyfriend, the nephew of old Tomba. What an
arrangement!

And the thirty cruel mouths began to laugh as if bitten, not because
they found large joke to the thing, but by overwhelming the daughter
of the hated Batiste.

- The "Shepherd said some --- »!...--.

The "Divina Pastora »!...

Rosetta shrugged with a look of indifference. I expected this nickname. In addition, jokes factory
had dulled their susceptibility.

Burdensome pitcher and up the steps, but the little voice stopped
him rearwardly mimosa Pimento's niece.

How this bug bite! ...

Never be the woman's grandson Tomba. It was an unhappy, a "starving", but very honest and incapable
of affinity with a family of thieves.

Rosetta almost dropped her jar. She blushed, as if these words, tearing the heart, had pushed
up all the blood to his face, and then he lay white, deathly pale.

- Chemi is lladre? "Qui? [14] - he asked with a trembling voice that made me laugh to all of the
source.

[14] - Who is a thief? Who?

Who? His father. Pimento, his uncle, he knew well and Cup home they
talked of nothing else.

Did they think the past was to be hidden? Had fled their village because they knew there too,
for it had come to the garden to take what was not theirs. He even had news that Mr. Batiste
had been in prison for bad things ...

And so it went viper, releasing all heard at home and in the valley: the lies fabricated for the lost
home the Cup, all a web of lies invented by Pimento, who felt increasingly less willing to attack
face to face to Batiste, and intended to harass, tired and hurt by the insult.

The firmness of the father suddenly appeared in Rosetta, trembling, stammering with rage and
his eyes streaked with blood. He dropped the jar, which shattered, girls wetting them more immediate
they protested in unison calling beast.

But she was good to notice such things!

- Mon !...-- shouted stop moving toward the insolent -.

"Mon stop lladre? ... Tornau to repeat and et trenque'ls hills [15].

[15] - My father a thief? ... I repeat and I'll break their noses.

But he could not repeat the Morenilla, because before he arrived to open his mouth, he received
a punched in it, while Rosetta sank the other hand on his bow. Instinctively moved by the pain,
he also grabbed the blond hair of the spinner, and for some minutes saw them at two curved, screaming
in pain and rage, with fronts near the ground, dragging each other
with cruel jerks that each gave to the hair other.

Falling forks to rid the braids. His hair seemed opulent banners warriors, not floating and victorious,
but twisted and tortured by the hands the enemy.

But Rosetta, stronger or more mad, managed to free herself, and was about to drag his opponent, perhaps
to Spanking interior, as with his free hand struggled to shed a shoe, when something unprecedented
happened, moody, brutal.

Without approval, as if the hatred of their families, phrases and curses heard in arise barracks
hit them all at once fell on the daughter of Batiste.

- Lladrona! Lladrona! ...

Rosetta disappeared under threatening arms. His face covered him with
scratches.

Burdened many hits, and could fall, as the same enemy Room shortage
of the right retained.

But pushed to one side to another, ended up rolling down the slippery steps, and forehead hit
a stone edge.

Blood! ... It was like a stone at a tree full of birds. All came running different directions, with
the pitchers on his head, and soon not seen in the vicinity source of the Queen rather than
the poor Rosetta, her hair loose, torn skirts, face is dirty with
dust and blood, walking toward his house crying.

I shouted at her mother's anguish and protest then go to find out
what happened!

These people were worse than Jews. Lord! Lord! Could such a crime occur on land Christians?
...

No longer enough to those of the garden that afflict men his poor Batiste, slandering court to
impose fines that are unjust. Her daughters were now pursuing Rosette to the poor, as if the fault
had unhappy.

And all for what ... Because they wanted to working to live, no offense to anyone, as God intended.

Batiste,
seeing his daughter bloodied and crying, pale, taking some steps towards road staring at the
cabin of Pimento, whose roof hovering over the Canar.

But finally he stopped and gently scold to Rosetta. What happened to not walk the teach for
pleasure in the orchard. They should avoid any friction with others: to live together and united
in his hut, never separate from lands that were his life.

Inside your home and would be kept enemies to come to us.

VI

Nest was a rumor, a whisper of the hive, what they heard huertanos morning and late at Passing
the string mill, on the road that goes to sea.

A thick curtain of poplars shut the square formed by the road to widen to stacking of old roofs,
cracked walls and black small windows of the mill, factory old and
dilapidated, mounted on the canal and supported by two large piers,
among the stream which fell into foaming waterfall.

The slow and monotonous noise came through the trees was the school
of Don Joaquin established in a shack hidden by the row of poplars.

I never saw worse knowledge is hosted, and why, usually, does not dwell palaces.

It was an old shack, no other light than that of the door and blowing
through the cracks the roof, the walls of dubious whiteness, as the
lady teacher, obese woman who lived stuck to his rush-chair, spent
the day listening to and admires her husband a few banks, three alphabet
posters filthy, broken at the ends, glued to the wall with bread chewing,
and in the next room to school furnishings and few old, who appeared
to have run half of Spain.

Throughout the cabin there were only a new object: the cane luenga the teacher was behind the door,
and renewed every two days in the reeds nearby, with a happiness that the genre is so cheap, it was
spent quickly on hard and shorn heads of the little wild.

Books, barely three in the school were: the same primer served to all. What more? ... There reigned
a Moorish method: singing and repetition, to put things in a continuum the hard pounding heads.

Because
of this, from morning till evening, the old barracks let go by his door an annoying chant,
which mocked all the birds of the contour.

- Pa ... dre ... ours, which ... you are ... in heaven ....

- Santa ... Mary ....

- Two by two ... cuuuatro ....

And the sparrows, the suckers and calenders, kids fleeing like the
dickens when The crew saw the trails, posábanse with confidence in
the trees near, and even walked with their legs jumping opposite the
school gate, laughing noisy chirping their fierce enemies to see them
caged, threatened with the cane condemned to look at them sideways,
unable to move, and repeating a song so annoying and ugly.

Occasionally gives the choir fell silent and majestic voice sounded
Joaquin releasing a jet of wisdom.

- How many are the works of mercy?

...

- Two of seven, how many? ...

And rarely was happy with the answers.

- You are a beast. I heard as if they spoke in Greek. And to think I treat them with any finesse,
as in a school in the city, so that you learn good manners and how people can speak ...! Anyway,
do you have someone to take: they are so gross parents as their lords, they bark, they make money
to go to the tavern, and invent a thousand excuses for me on Saturday the two rooms that belong
to me.

And we walked outraged, especially when they complain of forgetfulness on Saturday. Well you could
tell in the aspect of his person, which seemed to be divided into two parts.

Below, broken sandals, always muddy, old corduroy pants, hands squamous rough, keeping in the
cracks of the skin the land of his little garden, a square of vegetables was in front of the
cabin, and often was the only thing that filled his pot. But waist up showed himself the lordship,
"the dignity of the priest of the instruction," as he said, what
distinguished him from everyone in the barracks, stuck to the groove
Gusarapo: brightly colored tie on dirty coveralls, gray and bristly
mustache breaking her plump and ruddy face, and a blue cap with rubber
hood, reminiscent of one of the many jobs that had played in his eventful
life.

This was what consoled him for his misery, especially the tie, had no ornament all around and he looked
that a sign of supreme distinction, something like the Golden Fleece Gold garden.

People respected the barracks Don Joaquin, but with regard to support their misery he wandered remiss
and dragged its feet. What that man had ever seen! ... What had been run by the world! ... Sometimes
railroad worker, helping others to collect taxes on more remote provinces of Spain, even said
he had been in Cuba as a civil guard. Anyway, that was a big bird come to less.

- Don Joaquin - said his big woman, who was the first in a sustainable manner - never has been
like today, we are very good family. Misfortune has brought us here, but we "Shoveled" ounces.

And
the gossips of the garden, without prejudice to forget the odd Saturday
in the two rooms school, respected as superior to Don Joaquin, reserving
a bit of fun for green casaquilla square skirts are endorsing the
holidays, when sang in the choir of the church Alboraya during the
mass.

Driven by poverty, had landed there with his huge flabby could
be half as fallen elsewhere.

He assisted the Secretary of the nearby town in the extra work, prepared with herbs known him only
certain operating miracles brews the barracks. All recognized that "this guy knew a lot", and
without fear or master degree anyone to remember him to remove a
school that would not even bread, was achieved by dint of repetition
and rum that spell and remain motionless all crooks five to ten years
on holidays to the birds stoned, robbed and chased fruit to the dogs
in the ways of the garden.

Where was the teacher?

All the neighbors knew, from afar, from beyond the churros. And in vain asked for more explanations
as to the geography of the whole garden Valencia is not speaking of churros.

They were not loose the work suffered by Joaquin to be understood by his disciples and does not
balk at the Castilian language. Of them had had two months school and opened his eyes and scratched
his neck without understanding what the teacher wanted to say with words ever heard in his cabin.

I
suffered from the poor guy!

He encrypting the triumphs of teaching in his "finesse" in the distinction of manners, as "well
spoken" which was, according to a statement from his wife!

Every word mispronounced his disciples - and no one said it - he had
to hiss raising his hands in indignation to touch the roof of his
house smoking.

He was proud of civility with which he treated his disciples.

- The humble shack - said at thirty little boys that were pressed and jostled in the narrow banks,
hearing between boring and afraid of the cane - the need to look at you as if the temple of
politeness and good breeding. What say the temple!

Is the torch that shines and dissolves the shadows of barbarism in this garden. Without me,
what would you? Beasts, and forgive the word, as well as their masters parents, those who do not
want to offend. But God's help, you have to get out of here as people met, knowing submitted
anywhere, as they have had the good fortune to find a teacher like me. Did not it? ...

And the boys responded with nodding furiously, striking the head with some neighbor, and even his
wife, moved by what the temple and gun ceased to make half and threw
behind the rush-chair, wrapping his wife in a look of admiration.

That challenges the whole mangy rascals, skirts and bare feet into the air, excessive urbanity.

-
Well, Mr. Llopis, get you.

And the "Lord of Llopis", a rogue of seven years, his pants leg sustained
in a low by a strap, the bank laid himself down and tallied before
the master, looking askance at the dreaded cane.

- Just now I see
you picking his nose and making pellets.

Ugly vice, sir Llopis, believe me to his teacher. By this time pass, because you know the table
applied and multiplication, but wisdom is little when not accompanied
by good parenting.

Do not forget this, Mr. Llopis.

And he approved of the pellets all
happy with the caveat out of rum, when another big man who was at
his side on the bench and had to keep ancient grudges, the see him
standing with their backsides off, was applied in a pinch them a traitor.

-
Ay! Alas ... Sinor teacher - shouted the boy - "Morros d'aca" poking
me.

What an explosion of anger of Don Joaquin! What irritated him
most was the love of boys to be called by the nicknames of their parents
and even to manufacture new ones.

- Morros d'Who is here? ... The
Lord of Peris, you mean. What manner of speaking, God mine! It seems
that this is a tavern ... If you had to at least the Morros de mare!
Descrísmese you teaching these idiots. Gross! ...

And waving the
cane began to distribute sound blows: the one by the nip and the other
for "Impropriety of language," as non-stop snorting Joaquin in their
rum. So blindly were the blows that other guys were tightened in banks,
shrugged, hiding each head into the neighbor's shoulder, and a little
boy, the youngest son of Batiste, frightened by the sound of the cane,
it was the body.

This tamed the teacher and made him regain his lost
glory, while the auditorium beaten covered her face.

- Doña Pepa
- said his wife -, take you to the Lord of Borrull, who is unwell,
and clean behind the school.

And the big woman, who had some affection
to Batiste's three children because they paid all Saturday, grabbed
a hand to the "Lord of Borrull" which came out swinging school on
the tender little legs, still crying in fright and teaching more than
the skirt through the rear opening of the pants.

After these incidents
over the lesson again sung, and the trees seemed to shudder of annoyance
to sift among its branches this monotonous drone.

Some evenings are
a melancholy could hear bells, and the whole school was stirring with
excitement.

Well, said I, you will not, I hope, do an unlawful or wicked thing, for any master in the world.
Look ye, said she, he is my master; and if he bids me do any thing that I can do, I think I
ought to do it; and let him, who has his power to command me, look to the lawfulness of it.
Why, said I, suppose he should bid you cut my throat, Would you do it? There's no danger of
that, said she; but to be sure I would not; for then I should be hanged! for that would be
murder. Well, said I, and suppose he should resolve to ensnare a poor young creature, and ruin
her, would you assist him in that? For to rob a person of her virtue is worse than cutting
her throat.

Why now, says she, how strangely you talk! Are not the two sexes made for one another? And
is it not natural for a gentleman to love a pretty woman? And suppose he can obtain his desires,
is that so bad as cutting her throat? And then the wretch fell a laughing, and talked most
impertinently, and shewed me, that I had nothing to expect from her virtue or conscience: and
this gave me great mortification; for I was in hopes of working upon her by degrees.

So we ended our discourse here, and I bid her shew me where I must lie.--Why, said she, lie
where you list, madam; I can tell you, I must lie with you for the present. For the present!
said I, and torture then wrung my heart!--But is it in your instructions, that you must lie
with me? Yes, indeed, said she.--I am sorry for it, said I. Why, said she, I am wholesome,
and cleanly too, I'll assure you. Yes, said I, I don't doubt that; but I love to lie by myself.
How so? said she; Was not Mrs. Jervis your bed-fellow at t'other house?

Well, said I, quite sick of her, and my condition; you must do as you are instructed, I think.
I can't help myself, and am a most miserable creature. She repeated her insufferable nonsense.
Mighty miserable, indeed, to be so well beloved by one of the finest gentlemen in England!

I am now come down in my writing to this present SATURDAY, and a deal I have written.

My wicked bed-fellow has very punctual orders, it seems; for she locks me and herself in, and
ties the two keys (for there is a double door to the room) about her wrist, when she goes to
bed. She talks of the house having been attempted to be broken open two or three times; whether
to fright me, I can't tell; but it makes me fearful; though not so much as I should be, if
I had not other and greater fears.

I slept but little last night, and got up, and pretended to sit by the window, which looks
into the spacious gardens; but I was writing all the time, from break of day, to her getting
up, and after, when she was absent.

At breakfast she presented the two maids to me, the cook and house-maid, poor awkward souls,
that I can see no hopes of, they seem so devoted to her and ignorance. Yet I am resolved, if
possible, to find some way to escape, before this wicked master comes.

There are, besides, of servants, the coachman, Robert, a groom, a helper, a footman; all but
Robert, (and he is accessary to my ruin,) strange creatures, that promise nothing; and all
likewise devoted to this woman. The gardener looks like a good honest man; but he is kept at
a distance, and seems reserved.

I wondered I saw not Mr. Williams the clergyman, but would not ask after him, apprehending
it might give some jealousy; but when I had beheld the rest, he was the only one I had hopes
of; for I thought his cloth would set him above assisting in my ruin.--But in the afternoon
he came; for it seems he has a little Latin school in the neighbouring village, which he attends;
and this brings him in a little matter, additional to my master's favour, till something better
falls, of which he has hopes.

He is a sensible sober young gentleman; and when I saw him I confirmed myself in my hopes of
him; for he seemed to take great notice of my distress and grief; (for I could not hide it;)
though he appeared fearful of Mrs. Jewkes, who watched all our motions and words.

He has an apartment in the house; but is mostly at a lodging in the town, for a conveniency
of his little school; only on Saturday afternoon and Sundays: and he preaches sometimes for
the minister of the village, which is about three miles off.

I hope to go to church with him to-morrow: Sure it is not in her instructions to deny me! He
can't have thought of every thing! And something may strike out for me there.

I have asked her, for a feint, (because she shan't think I am so well provided,) to indulge
me with pen and ink, though I have been using my own so freely when her absence would let me;
for I begged to be left to myself as much as possible. She says she will let me have it; but
then I must promise not to send any writing out of the house, without her seeing it. I said,
it was only to divert my grief when I was by myself, as I desired to be; for I loved writing
as well as reading; but I had nobody to send to, she knew well enough. Who knows how it would be at such hours ... the other!

While his wife helped him to change clothes and prepare the bed, Batiste told him what happened.
The good woman opened her eyes with a look of horror, sighed thinking
of the danger braved by her husband and anxious glances at the closed
door of the hut, as if she was leaked to the Civil Guard.

Batistet, meanwhile, with a caution early, grabbed the shotgun and
candlelight to the dried, cleaning their guns, trying to erase it
all signs of recent use, so might occur.

The night was bad for the whole family. Batiste raved in Carrion's study. He had fever, agitábase
furious, as if still run by the banks of the canal hunting the man, and screaming scared to
small and to the two women, who spent the night clear clear sitting
by the bedside, offering sugar water every moment, the only home remedy
who managed to invent.

The next day the cabin was ajar the door all morning. The wounded seemed to be better, the kids, her
eyes red from sleeplessness, remained motionless in the pen sitting
on the manure, closely following every move stupid animals locked
up there.

Teresa la vega peered through the open door, returning after next .... Batiste Many people!
All contour passing by walking towards the hut of Pimento. She looked around her, a swarm of
men ... and all with a sullen face, speaking to cries, between vigorous
hand wringing, perhaps throwing from a distance looks of hatred of
the former Barret shack.

Her husband welcomed this news with grunts. Something in the chest causing beetles deep damage. This
movement of the garden into the cabin of his enemy was evidence that
Pimento was serious.

Maybe he was going to die. I was sure that the two bullets from his gun was still in the body.

And
now, what would happen? ... "He would die in prison, like poor old Barret? ... No, he continue
the customs of the garden, the respect for justice into their own hands. It would be silent the
dying, leaving his friends, Terreròla or other, the task of avenging
him.

And Batiste did not know what to fear more, if the justice of the city or the orchard.

Began to fall afternoon, when the wounded, ignoring the protests and petitions of the two women, jumped
out of his Kamon.

He was choking, his athletic body, accustomed to fatigue, could not
withstand long hours of immobility.

The heaviness of the shoulder urging him to change position, as if that could save you from pain.

With
halting step, numb from the rest, came out of the hut, sitting under the arbor, brick in a bank.

The
evening was unpleasant, the wind blew too fresh for the season.

Purple clouds covered the sun, and under them desplomábase light, closing the horizon as a backdrop
pale gold.

Batiste looked vaguely toward the city, turning his back to the barracks Pimento now it was
clear, to be stripped the fields of harvest to the curtains concealed
before harvest.

Felt hurt at the same moment the impulse of curiosity and fear to see too; but at last he slowly turned
his eyes to the house of his opponent.

Yes, many people gathered at the door: men, women, children, the whole valley, running eager to visit
his vanquished liberator.

I should hate these people! ... Were away, and yet guessed his name ringing in every mouth. Into
the buzzing in his ears, beating in his temples burning with fever,
thought he heard the whisper of that nest threatening.

And yet, God knew that he had not done more to defend themselves,
that only wanted to keep his men without harm to anyone.

What fault had to be in conflict with a people that, as Don Joaquin's teacher, were very good,
very beasts? ...

The afternoon, the twilight hung over the valley a light gray and sad.

The wind, each stronger, brought up the block a distant echo of cries and angry voices.

Batiste saw people crowd around the door of the cabin away, and then
many arms raised with a pained expression, clenched hands that tore
the headscarf to be thrown to the ground angrily.

He felt hurt that all his blood rushed to his heart, he stopped as if paralyzed few moments, then
beat faster, throwing his face a red tide and burning.

Guess what happened over there, is what the heart said: Pimento had just died.

Batiste shivered with cold and fear was a feeling of weakness, as if suddenly abandon him forces, and
went into his cabin, not breathing normally until he saw the door bolted and the candle lit.

The
evening was gloomy. The dream was overwhelming to the family, rendered tired from waking the previous
night. Hardly had dinner, and before nine o'clock they were all in bed.

Batiste was feeling better from his wound.

The weight on the shoulder had diminished, no longer dominated fever, but now he was tormented by
a strange pain in my heart.

In the darkness of the students and still awake, he saw a figure emerge pale, indeterminate
that was gradually taking shape and colors to be Pimento as he had
seen the last days, his head bandaged and his stubborn threatening
retaliatory gesture.

Molestábale this vision, and closed his eyes to sleep. Complete darkness, the dream was taking
over it .... But the closed eyes began to populate the dense gloom of fiery points that is enlarged
by making patches of various colors, and stains, after floating whimsically
is sought, is amalgamated, and again beheld him slowly approaching
Pimento, with caution fierce a beast that fascinated his victim.

Batiste made efforts to get rid of this nightmare.

No sleep, no: I heard the snoring of his wife, lying next to him, and their children, overwhelmed
by fatigue, but the deepest ever heard, as if a mysterious force
be carried far, far away, the cabin, and he, however, remained there,
motionless, unable to move much effort trying, seeing the face of
Pimento beside hers, feeling in his face the warm breath of his enemy.

But he was not dead?

... His blunt thought to ask this question, and after many efforts he answered himself that Pimento
was dead.

Was no longer, as before, a broken head; now showed the body torn
by two wounds that Batiste could not see in what place were, but two
injuries were opening their blue lips as inexhaustible sources blood.

The two shotguns, a thing beyond dispute.

He was not the shooters that Marr.

And the ghost, wrapping his face with his fiery breath, dropped on
Batiste a look that seemed needling eyes and down and down to scratch
the insides.

- Forgive me, Pimento! - Voice groaned the injured child,
terrified by the nightmare.

Yes, should forgive him. Killed him was true, but he was the first to find him. We will: Men who are
men must be reasonable! He was to blame for everything occurred.

But the dead do not understand reasons, and the spectrum, coming as
a villain, smiling fiercely, and a jump up to bed, sitting on it,
pressing the wound shoulder with all his weight.

Batiste moaned in pain, unable to move to repel the mole. Trying to soften calling Toni, loving
family, rather than appoint by his nickname.

- Toni fas me wrong [29].

[29] - Toni, you're hurting me.

That is what I wanted the ghost hurt. Looking even slightly, with only his eyes grabbed rags and
bandages his wound, which blew up and spread. After sending its cruel nails in the tear of the
flesh and pulled the edges, making him roar:

- Ay! Alas ... "Pimento"

Forgive me!

Such was his pain that the shivers, up along his back to the head, bristling their hair shaved,
making them grow and curl up with the contraction of trouble to become
horrible tangle of snakes.

Then came a horrible thing. The ghost, grabbing his strange hair, spoke finally.

- Vine ... vine [30] - pulling it said.

[30] - Come ... see.

We drew with superhuman lightness, took him flying or swimming - he did not know with certainty
- Through a light and slippery, and so were the two rapidly, sliding in the shade, to a red
spot was marked far, far away.

The spot grew larger, had a similar way to the door of her bedroom,
and went for it Dense smoke, nauseating stench of burnt straw that
prevented him from breathing.

Should be the mouth of hell throw him there Pimento, in the great fire, whose light inflamed the
door. Fear overcame her paralysis. He gave a terrible cry, moved to end its arms, and sent a terrible
setback at Pimenta from him and his strange hair.

Her eyes open and saw no more the ghost.

He had dreamed of was no doubt a nightmare of fever, now back to being in bed with poor Teresa,
who, still dressed, snoring wearily at his side.

But no, the frenzy was still going on. What bright light illuminating his students? Still saw
the mouth of hell, which was equal to the door of your room, throwing smoke and ruddy glow. Would
you be asleep? ... He rubbed his eyes, moved his arms, sat up in bed .... No; awake and wide awake.

The
door was getting redder, the smoke was thicker.

Deaf heard creaking as cane exploding licked by flame, and even saw dance as sparks fly holding
fire to the chintz curtain that closed the room. There was a desperate bark, interminable like
a bell ringing the tocsin.

Recrystallization! ... The conviction of reality, raiding suddenly
thought him mad.

- Teresa!

Teresa! ... Amunt! [31]

[31] - Teresa! Teresa! ... Arriba!

And the first push her out of bed.

Then he ran to the boys' room, and to blows and shouts them out in his shirt, like a flock idiot
and coward who runs at the club, without knowing where. And burned the roof of your room, throwing
on the bed a bunch of sparks.

Blinded by smoke and counting the minutes as ever, Batiste the door
opened, and she went mad with terror the whole family in his underwear,
running up the road.

There, a little calmer, were counted.

All: they were all down to the poor dog, who howled mournfully watching the cabin fire.

Teresa embraced his daughter, who, forgetting the danger, trembled with shame at being in his
shirt in the middle of the garden, and sat on a bank, crammed with
the concern of embarrassment, supporting the beard on his knees and
pulling the white canvas to cover her feet.

The two small refugiábanse frightened in the arms of his older brother
and father agitábase like a madman, bellowing curses.

Recordóns! And how well do they know!

... Had set fire to the cabin for their four sides, all of it burned
at once.

Until the corral, stable and canopies, was crowned with flames.

They left him desperate neighing, crowing of terror, fierce growls,
but the hut insensitive to the cries of those who were roasted in
their guts, was throwing curves languages of fire doors and windows.

From its roof burned huge spiral elevábase white smoke, which reflects
the fire took slides of pink.

Had changed over time, the night was calm, no breeze was not blowing,
and the blue sky was only marred by the smoke plume, whose white fleece
sticking Weird stars.

Teresa struggled with her husband, who, recovered from his painful
surprise and spurred by the interest doing crazy things, I wanted
to get into the inferno.

A moment nothing else: the essentials students to take the bag of
silver, harvested.

Ah, good Teresa!

It was not necessary that contained her husband, suffering its tough pushing. A burning hut
soon the straw and reeds love fire. The roof collapsed noisily, erect roof that the neighbors
looked like an insult, and the enormous brazier rose column sparks a frightening, to whose
light seemed uncertain and hesitant gestures Orchard with fantastic
grimaces.

Corral walls trembled silently, as if stirred within them banging a legion of demons. As clusters of
fire jumped the birds, and tried to fly burning alive.

He collapsed a wall piece made of mud and sticks, and the gap came
as a black spark a fearful monster.

Smoke threw nose, shaking his mane of sparks, desperately flapping
his tail like a broom of fire, spreading the stench of burnt hair.

       It was the horse.

It went through prodigious leap over the family, galloping furiously to through the fields. Instinctively
went in search of the ditch, and fell into it with a birdie iron off.

Behind him, which a demon crawling drunk and throwing frightful groans,
came another spectrum fire, the pig, which collapsed in the countryside,
burning like a torch fat.

And only the walls remained standing and the vine, with its branches
twisted by fire and the pillars that stood out like ink sticks on
a red background.

Batistet, with the desire to save something, ran
wildly along the paths, shouting, banging the gates of the barracks
immediately, which seemed to flash with a reflection of the fire.

-
Help! Help! ... To FOC! To FOC! [32]

[32] Fire! Fire!

Their voices
were lost, raising the economic futility of the ruins and cemeteries.

His
father smiled cruelly. Name in vain. The garden was deaf to them.
Within white barracks had curious eyes peering through the cracks,
perhaps laughing mouths with a hellish joy, but not a voice say, "Here
I am!"

Bread! ... How much win! And how bad does to men!

In a hut
shone a light pale yellow, sad. Teresa, bewildered by danger wanted
to go to her aid implore, hoping that infuses the help of others,
hoping something miraculous that desire in disgrace.

Her husband
stopped her with an expression of terror. No: there. In everywhere
but there.

And as a man who has fallen so deep, so deep that you
can not feel remorse, away sight of the fire to hold in that pale
light, light candles that burn without brilliance, and fed by an atmosphere
in which they perceive even the flutter of death.

Goodbye, Pimento!
While you move out of the world served. The shack and the fortune
of the hated intruder illuminate your body better than the candles
purchased by the desolate Pepeta, yellow tears light.

Batistet returned
hopelessness of his futile run. No one answered.

The plain, silent
and grim, I said goodbye forever.

Were more alone in the midst of
a desert, the gap of hatred was a thousand times worse than Nature.
Flee from there to start a new life, feeling the hunger behind them
in hot heels leave behind him the ruin of his work and a little body
of yours, "Bishop of the poor, rotting in the bowels of the land as
the innocent victim of a relentless battle.

And all, with oriental
resignation, and sat down in the ditch, and there awaited the dawn,
imbued with the back of cold toast in front of the hearth who dyed
their faces reflections of blood, according to the passivity of doom
during the fire that was devouring all his efforts and turned them
into ashes so flimsy and tenuous as their old illusions peace and
work.

FIN

Valencia .-- October to December 1898.

LITERARY NOVEL

Best
Novel THE BEST WORKS-Director: Vicente Blasco Ibanez

* * * * *

In
addition to personally direct Blasco Ibáñez, choosing novels and consider
the translation has written an extensive preface, biographical and
critical study of the author of the work.

VOLUMES PUBLISHED

PAUL
ADAM

Clarisa year.

The herd of Clarisa.

The trust (2 volumes). Howsomever, it will do you no good
to make this known; and may-hap I may live to do you service. If I can, I will: I am sure I
ought.--Master kept your last two or three letters, and did not send them at all. I am the
most abandoned wretch of wretches. 'J. ARNOLD.'

'You see your undoing has been long hatching. Pray take care of your sweet self. Mrs. Jewkes
is a devil: but in my master's t'other house you have not one false heart, but myself. Out
upon me for a villain!'

My dear father and mother, when you come to this place, I make no doubt your hair will stand
on end as mine does!--O the deceitfulness of the heart of man!--This John, that I took to be
the honestest of men; that you took for the same; that was always praising you to me, and me
to you, and for nothing so much as for our honest hearts; this very fellow was all the while
a vile hypocrite, and a perfidious wretch, and helping to carry on my ruin.

But he says so much of himself, that I will only sit down with this sad reflection, That power
and riches never want tools to promote their vilest ends, and there is nothing so hard to be
known as the heart of man:--I can but pity the poor wretch, since he seems to have great remorse,
and I believe it best to keep his wickedness secret. If it lies in my way, I will encourage
his penitence; for I may possibly make some discoveries by it.

One thing I should mention in this place; he brought down, in a portmanteau, all the clothes
and things my lady and master had given me, and moreover two velvet hoods, and a velvet scarf,
that used to be worn by my lady; but I have no comfort in them, or any thing else.

Mrs. Jewkes had the portmanteau brought into my closet, and she shewed me what was in it; but
then locked it up, and said, she would let me have what I would out of it, when I asked; but
if I had the key, it might make me want to go abroad, may be; and so the confident woman put
it in her pocket.

I gave myself over to sad reflections upon this strange and surprising discovery of John's,
and wept much for him, and for myself too; for now I see, as he says, my ruin has been long
hatching, that I can make no doubt what my master's honourable professions will end in. What
a heap of hard names does the poor fellow call himself! But what must they deserve, then, who
set him to work? O what has this wicked master to answer for, to be so corrupt himself, and
to corrupt others, who would have been all innocent; and to carry on a poor plot, I am sure
for a gentleman, to ruin a poor creature, who never did him harm, nor wished him any; and who
can still pray for his happiness, and his repentance?

I can't but wonder what these gentlemen, as they are called, can think of themselves for these
vile doings! John had some inducement; for he hoped to please his master, who rewarded him
and was bountiful to him; and the same may be said, bad as she is, for this same odious Mrs.
Jewkes. But what inducement has my master for taking so much pains to do the devil's work for
him?--If he loves me, as 'tis falsely called, must he therefore lay traps for me, to ruin me
and make me as bad as himself? I cannot imagine what good the undoing of such a poor creature
as I can procure him.--To be sure, I am a very worthless body. People, indeed, say I am handsome;
but if I was so, should not a gentleman prefer an honest servant to a guilty harlot? And must
he be more earnest to seduce me, because I dread of all things to be seduced, and would rather
lose my life than my honesty?

Well, these are strange things to me! I cannot account for them, for my share; but sure nobody
will say, that these fine gentlemen have any tempter but their own wicked wills!--his naughty
master could run away from me, when he apprehended his servants might discover his vile attempts
upon me in that sad closet affair; but is it not strange that he should not be afraid of the
all-seeing eye, from which even that base plotting heart of his, in its most secret motions,
could not be hid?--But what avail me these sorrowful reflections? He is and will be wicked,
and designs me a victim to his lawless attempts, if the God in whom I trust, and to whom I
hourly pray, prevent it not.

Tuesday and Wednesday.

I have been hindered by this wicked woman's watching me so close, from writing on Tuesday;
and so I will put both these days together. I have been a little turn with her for an airing,
in the chariot, and walked several times in the garden; but have always her at my heels.

Mr. Williams came to see us, and took a walk with us once; and while her back was just turned,
(encouraged by the hint he had before given me,) I said, Sir, I see two tiles upon that parsley-bed;
might not one cover them with mould, with a note between them, on occasion?--A good hint, said
he; let that sunflower by the back-door of the garden be the place; I have a key to the door;
for it is my nearest way to the town.

So I was forced to begin. O what inventions will necessity push us upon! 

Meanwhile, the three brothers continued their journey descalabraduras
scratching their struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to God and to the saints see the progress
as they reached their young.

That day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were bruised; was always
the same: there was no need to ignore.

But the little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called him, was wet from head to foot,
and cried, trembling with fear and cold.

The fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and
then gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

       Teresa laid him in his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling
in his arms, holding his neck and murmuring voice like a bleat:

-
Mare!

Mare!

...

The mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience! "All that mob, young and old, had proposed
ending with the family.

* * * * *

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road to Valencia on a Thursday morning.
It was market day for animals in the river, and carried on the belt,
as a thick lump, the burlap bag with the rest of their savings.

Rained misery on the block. All that was missing its roof that would collapse over them, crushing them
all .... What people! Where have you been! ...

The little boy getting worse, shivering with fever in the arms of
his mother, who cried to all hours, and visited twice a day by the
doctor.

In short, a disease that was going to cost you twelve or fifteen hard, as they say nothing!

The eldest, Batistet, could hardly go beyond their fields. He still had his head wrapped in rags and
face cross-spanked, after the huge battle that morning said on the road with others their age who
would like him to pick up manure in Valencia. All fematers contour against Batistet had joined,
and the poor boy could not look the road.

The two small and did not go to school for fear of fights that should support the return.

And Rosetta, poor girl! was the one that was more sad.

The father, gloomy and severe glimpses gesture reminded him mutely
to be indifferent, because their sentences were an attack on parental
authority.

But alone, he lamented good Batiste the sadness of the poor girl. He had also been young and
knew how heavy are the pains of love.

Everything had been discovered. After the famous fight in the fountain of the Queen, the whole
garden spent several days talking about the Rosetta love with the nephew of old Tomba.

The butcher of Alboraya snorted courage against his servant. Ah, great rascal! Now understood
why he forgot his homework, which lost the afternoon wandering around the garden like a gypsy.
The master was allowed to have a girlfriend, like a man capable of
maintaining it.

And what bride Good God! One had only to listen to the customers when they chatted at his
desk. All said the same thing: they were surprised that a man like him, religious, honest and without
other defects to steal something in the weight allowed to accompany his servant to the daughter
of the enemy of garden, an evil man, which he had allegedly been in prison.

And this, in respect of the standard big-bellied, was a disgrace to their establishment, listening
to the murmurings of the gossips again enraged, threatening with the knife the timid servant,
or rebuked the Tomba to correct the rascal of his grandson.

Total: the butcher dismissed the boy and his grandfather find work in Valencia home of another
sharp, praying that no grant him freedom or even on holidays, to
no more waiting on the road to the daughter of Batiste.

Tonet went submissive, with moist eyes, as one of the sheep that had so often hauled up the knife
from his master. Never return to the garden. In the hut was the poor girl hiding in her bedroom
to moan, making efforts not to show pain to the mother, who, irritated by so many setbacks, appeared
intractable, and before the father, who spoke of it to pieces if she was to have a boyfriend
and talk to it the enemies of the contour.

The poor Batiste, so harsh and threatening, so it hurt for all misfortune was the distress
of the poor girl, poor appetite, yellow, haggard, making efforts for being indifferent, barely
sleeping, which did not stop every morning march time at the factory, with a vagueness in telling
pupils that his thinking rolled away, I was dreaming inside at all hours.

Were they any more evil? ... Yes, there were still others. At the cabin, nor beast got rid of
the poisonous atmosphere of hatred that seemed to float on its roof. At that not trampling certainly
made him the evil eye, and so his poor Morrut, the old horse an animal that was like family,
which had dragged down by poor roads and trousseau boys in the pilgrimages of misery, he would
dribble out in the barn Again, the best accommodation during their long working life.

Behaved like honest person in the worst time when newly established family in the hut, had to plow damn
petrified by ten years of neglect, when there to make continuous trips to Valencia in search of the
rubble of demolition and old wood; when the grass was not much and
the work overwhelming.

And now that front window of the block lay a great field of fresh
grass, straight, wavy, all for him now had the table set with that
green and juicy tablecloth smelled of glory now fattened, their legs
are tapered and rounded his back knotted, died suddenly, without knowing
why, perhaps using their perfect right to rest after taking the family
afloat.

He lay on the straw one day, refusing to leave, staring with glazed eyes Bastida and yellowish did
expire on the lips of love vows and threats of indignation. It looked like a poor person Morrut;
Batiste, recalling his eyes, was often wishes to mourn. The barracks suffered a concussion, and
that unfortunately made the family to forget Pascualet poor momentarily, trembling with fever
in bed.

Batiste's wife cried.

Gentle animal that extending his nose had been coming into the world Almost all children. Still remember
it like it was yesterday, when I bought in the market Sagunto, small, dirty, full of scabs and
gore, like a smack of waste. Was a family member was leaving.

And when some nasty guys came in a car for take your horse to the "Caldera" [16], which become
the skeleton of polished bone brilliance and fertilizing compost meats, kids crying, screaming
from the door endless goodbye to poor Morrut, going away with stiff legs and head swaying, while
the mother, as if I had a horrible feeling, is cast with open arms on the sick child.

[16] place where they cremated the dead animals to use their bones.

Recalled to their children when they were introduced in the block to pull the tail Morrut the sweet
passivity which endured with all the boys games. I saw the little boy when his father put him
on the hard spine of the animal, hitting the shiny little feet flanks and screaming "arre! Arre!
"With childish babble. With the death of this poor beast Teresa thought she was going to be
left open a gap in the family where they would others.

Lord that deceive their mother painful forebodings, that was just the animal suffered which was,
that is not carried on their backs to the poor little one way to heaven, as at other times he wore
in the paths of the garden clinging to his mane, slowly, not to tear it down!

And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling
in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter
Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the
city and spent the Serranos bridge.

At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering
over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped,
running his hands over his face. I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask
to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase
of a hack that would replace the Morrut.

And since the toilet is the luxury of the poor, sat on a stone bench, waiting his turn came to
clean the beards of two weeks, sharp and tough as barbed, which blackened his face.

In the shade of tall bananas worked the orchard people hairdressers, barbers to "face the sun."
A pair of armchairs with seat and arms esparto polished by using
a stove in the pot of boiling water, towels and a razor dubious dull
color, that scraped the hard skin of the parishioners with spooky
rails, were all fortune of these outdoor facilities.

Surly boys who aspired to be young men in barbershops in the city were there their weapons first,
and while inferring tame or village heads cut da trasquilones and peeling, the master was talking
to the customers sitting on the bench of the ride, or read a newspaper
aloud to the audience, which, with the chin on both hands, listening
impassive.

Those who sat in the chair of the torments pasábanles a piece of soap stone cheeks, and rub
that rubs until rising foam.

Then came the cruel navajeo, cuts, that stood firmly on the client's face stained with blood.
A little more sounded beyond the big scissors in constant motion, passing and reviewing on the round
presumed head of a strapping young man, who was shorn as a black
poodle and the height of style: long matted hair on the front and
back half a head of closely cropped.

Batiste was shaved quite lucky, as I listened, sunk in the Esparto chair and with closed eyes,
reading the 'teacher', made with nasal, monotonous voice, their commentaries and glosses man skilled
in public affairs. No more than three scratches removed and a cut on his ear. Other times he
had been more. Gave his half-real, and got into the city Serranos by the door.

Two hours later he came out again, and sat on the stone bench, from
the group of parishioners, to hear again the teacher while the market
was time.

The owners had just paying the piquillo he needed to buy the horse. Now important was to have
a good eye to choose from, the serenity to not be fooled by the cunning gypsies passing before him with
their cattle, then a ramp down into the riverbed.

Eleven. The market should be the most animated. Batiste came to the confused noise a hotbed invisible
climbed the neighing and voices from the bottom of the channel. Doubted stood still, as you
want to delay the moment of an important resolution, and finally decided to descend to the market.

The
bed of the Turia was, as always, almost dry. Some streaks of water, breaks the dams and reservoirs
that cool the meadow, meandering curved or islands in a dusty floor, burning, uneven, which looked
more like African desert riverbed.

At such times he was all white with the sun, without the slightest taint of shadow.

The cars of the peasants, with their clear awnings, formed a camp in the center of channel, and
along the banks of stone set in a row, were the animals at the sale: coceadoras black mules, with
bright red shells and legs agitated by nervous restlessness; Dobbins,
strong but sad, like serfs condemned to eternal fatigue, looking glassy
eyes to all that passed, as if they guessed the new tyrant, and small
and vivacious ponies, injuring the dust with their hooves, pulling
the tether that kept them tied the wall.

Next to the down ramp were the culled animals: donkeys, no ears, dirty hair and disgusting pustules
sad horses, whose skin seemed to pierced with angled the stark skeleton,
mules short-sighted, with neck stork all the misery of the market,
the castaways of work, which, with leather lined up sticks, stomach
contracted and excoriation Swollen bellied flies green and awaited
the arrival of the contractor's bullfighting or the beggar, who would
know still use them.

Beside streams in the middle of the channel and the banks that had moisture covered with a tiny
layer of grass, herds of horses trotted untamed, open air, luenga mane, tail dragging on the
ground.

Beyond the bridges, through its arches stone, could be seen herds of bulls, with the legs
drawn up, quietly ruminating grass threw them pastors, or walking
lazily through the parched ground, feeling the nostalgia of fresh
pastures, standing fiercely every time the youngsters are whistle
from the parapets.

The animation market is growing.

Around each horse was adjusting the sale formed gesticulating and chattering groups of peasants
in shirtsleeves, with a stick ash in the right hand. Roma, dry, tan, long and curved rails, sheepskin
with patches and hair cap, beneath which his eyes shone with a glow
of fever, spoke constantly, throwing his breath in his face as if
to Buyer hypnotize.

- But you look well in the pony.

Fix in your lines ... If it looks like a lady!

And the farmer, insensible to the mellows Roma, self-enclosed, pensive and uncertain, looked down,
looked upon the beast, he scratched his neck, and just saying to power stubborn:

- Well, they do not donate month [17].

[17] - Well, it does not give anymore.

To make workplaces and solemnize the sales we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman
who sold pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky
content of half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc.

Batiste went and reviewed several times between the brutes, without regard to vendors beset him guessing
his intentions.

Nothing like it. Alas, poor Morrut! How difficult was finding a successor! Not to be beset by necessity,
had left without buying, believed to offend the deceased be turning those unfriendly beasts.

At
last he stopped before a white steed, not too fat nor shiny, with some scratches on the legs and
an air of fatigue, a workhorse that despite its appearance of overwhelming, seemed to be strong
and courageous.

Just ran a hand through the legs of the horse, he appeared alongside a gypsy, obsequious campechanote,
treating him as if he knew all his life.

- An animal with pearls, it is good that you know the beasts .... And cheap: I think reñiremos
not .... Monote!

Get him out for a walk, to see how gracefully Mr. breaststroke.

And the aforementioned Monote, a gypsy bare-bottomed air breaks and shorts scabby face, grabbed
the horse by the halter and ran out the ups and downs of sand followed
by the poor beast, who trotted dismissive, as so tired of an operation
sometimes repeatedly.

He ran the curious people gathered around Batiste and the Gypsy, who
remained with their eyes the progress of the animal.

Guando Monote returned with the horse, the farmer examined it carefully.

He put his fingers through the yellow teeth, ran his hands through the legs, lifted their helmets
to inspect, carefully recorded it between his legs.

- Look here,
look you - read the Roma - who for that is .... Cleaner than the whistle.

This does not fool anyone: all natural. No animals are arranged, as do others, that disfigure
a donkey in a heartbeat.

I bought it last week and neither did I care fix the little things
that have legs.

You saw how I struggle salt.

And pull a car? ... Or an elephant has its thrust. There in the neck you see the signs.

Batiste examination did not seem unhappy, but made efforts to be upset, using of pouting and coughs.
Their road woes as he had made known to the beasts, and inwardly laughed some curious, influenced
by the poor appearance of the horse, arguing with the gypsy, saying it was only good for sending
to the "Caldera".

His sad-looking and was tired of working animals that comply with resignation as can be sustained.

Came
the decisive moment.

He would stay with him .... How much?

- As for you, a friend - said the Gypsy patting on the back - for being for you, nice person to know
well to treat this piece ... we'll leave in forty and give you a
deal.

Batiste calmly endured the shooting, a man accustomed to such discussions, and smiled sarcastically:

-
Well, after being you, rebajaré little. Want ventisinco?

The gypsy extended his arms with theatrical indignation, retreated
a few steps, scratched hair or cap made all sorts of grotesque extremes
to express their astonishment.

- Mother of God!

Twenty hard! ... But have you look at the animal?

Or steal it could lead to such price.

But Batiste replied to all her complaints always the same:

- Ventisinco ... not a penny more.

And the gypsy, hastily his reasons, which were not few, appealed to the supreme argument:

- Monote ... out the animal ... the Lord look good.

And there was Monote again, jogging and pulling the tether before the poor horse, every time
Most boring for many walks.

- What a wag!

Huh? - Said the Gypsy -. If it looks like a marquise in a dance! And that goes for you twenty-five
duros? ...

- Not a penny more - repeated stubborn.

- Monote ... returns. There are already enough.

And feigning outrage, turned back to the buyer gypsy as if she gave as a failure any settlement,
stop to see that Batiste was truly gone seriousness.

- Come on, sir ... What is grace? ... "Batiste? Ah! Well, look you, Mr. Baptist for you see
I love him and wish that this jewel is yours, I'm going to do what would not do for anyone.
Should thirty-five dollars? We say yes.

He swears by his Sallu would not do this or for my stop.

This time was even more alive and grinning their protest to see that the farmer does not soften with
the rebate and he barely gave him two dollars more.

- But as a dislike of pearl inspired that fine? Do Nah, you do not have eyes to appreciate it?
Let's see, Monote: to remove it again.

But that did not take Monote of his lungs again, then walked away
pretending Batiste had given up such a purchase.

He wandered through the market, looking away other animals, but always
watching from the corner an eye to the gypsy, who, feigning indifference
also followed him, watching him.

He went to a big horse hair strong
and shiny, not thinking about buying, guessing his high price. Just
ran his hand through the legs, he felt with his ears burning breath
and a murmur

- Thirty-three .... Salu by their children, do not say
no, you see that I put in right.

- Twenty-eight - Batiste said without
turning.

When he got tired of admiring this beautiful beast went
on, and doing something witnessed how an old peasant haggled a donkey.

The
gypsy had come to stand beside his horse and watched him from afar,
shaking rope halter as if he called. Batiste approached slowly, simulating
distraction looking at the bridges, through which they passed as moving
colored domes of open umbrellas of women in the city.

It was noon.
Scorched sand bed, the air confined between the parapets, not moved
with the slightest gust. In this warm and sticky, the sun, falling
flat punctured the skin and lips burned.

The gypsy walked a few steps
toward Batiste, offering the end of the rope as a Inauguration:

-
Neither you nor me. Thirty, and God knows nothing gained .... Thirty,
do not tell me no, because I'm dying of rabies. We ... shock you.

Batiste
grabbed the rope and reached out to the seller, who energetically
pressed. Treatment closed.

The farmer was taking from his belt all
that indigestion savings that swelled the womb a ticket which he had
borrowed the master, a few pieces of hard to, a handful of silver
Petite wrapped in a paper cone, and when the count was complete could
not escape go with the gypsy the shadow created for guests to a cup
and give a few cents to monotheism for his trot.

- It brings you
the jewel of the market. Today is good day to you, Senor Baptist has
santiguao right hand, and went to see Our Lady.

Still had to drink
a second cup, a gift from the Gypsy, and finally, cutting short his
stream of offerings and flattery, took the halter of his new horse,
and with the help of agile Monote, mounted on the bare back, leaving
them short step from the noisy market.

Animal was satisfied: he had
not lost the day. Barely remember the poor Morrut, and felt the pride
of ownership when the bridge and on the way they turned some from
the farm to examine the white nag.

His greatest satisfaction was
when passing the house to take the Cup made a trotting nag presumptuous,
as if it were a horse breed, and saw him go after peered Pimento at
the door and all district lazy-eyed amazement. Les Miserables! And
would convinced that it was difficult to sink his teeth, he knew to
defend himself. Could well view: new horse. I wish it was happening
inside the cabin could be fixed so easily!

Their wheat, tall and
green, formed as a lake of restless waves by the wayside, the alfalfa
showed himself fresh, with a perfume that did dilate the nostrils
of the horse. Could not complaining about their land, but within the
cabin was where we were afraid to misfortune, eternal companion of
his life, waiting to hammer nails into it.

When he heard the trot
of the horse, went Batistet with his head covered with rags, to seize
the halter while his father dismounted.

So you see, dear father and mother, (I hope now you will soon see; for, may be, if I can't
get away so soon myself, I may send my papers some how; I say you will see,) that this furnishes
me with a good excuse to look after my garden another time; and if the mould should look a
little freshish, it won't be so much suspected. She mistrusted nothing of this; and I went
and stuck in here and there my beans, for about the length of five ells, of each side of the
sunflower; and easily deposited my letter. And not a little proud am I of this contrivance.
Sure something will do at last!

Friday, Saturday.

I have just now told you a trick of mine; now I'll tell you a trick of this wicked woman's.
She comes up to me: Says she, I have a bill I cannot change till to-morrow; and a tradesman
wants his money most sadly: and I don't love to turn poor trades-folks away without their money:
Have you any about you? I have a little, replied I: How much will do? Oh! said she, I want
eight pounds. Alack! said I, I have but between five and six. Lend me that, said she, till
to-morrow. I did so; and she went down stairs: and when she came up, she laughed, and said,
Well, I have paid the tradesman. Said I, I hope you'll give it me again to-morrow. At that,
the assurance, laughing loud, said, Why, what occasion have you for money? To tell you the
truth, lambkin, I didn't want it. I only feared you might make a bad use of it; and now I can
trust Nan with you a little oftener, especially as I have got the key of your portmanteau;
so that you can neither corrupt her with money, nor fine things. Never did any body look more
silly than I.--O how I fretted, to be so foolishly outwitted!--And the more, as I had hinted
to Mr. Williams, that I would put some in his hands to defray the charges of my sending to
you. I cried for vexation.--And now I have not five shillings left to support me, if I can
get away.--Was ever such a fool as I! I must be priding myself in my contrivances, indeed!
said I. Was this your instructions, wolfkin? (for she called me lambkin). Jezebel, you mean,
child! said she.--Well, I now forgive you heartily; let's buss and be friends.--Out upon you
said I; I cannot bear you!--But I durst not call her names again; for I dread her huge paw
most sadly. The more I think of this thing, the more do I regret it, and blame myself.

This night the man from the post-house brought a letter for Mrs. Jewkes, in which was one enclosed
for me: She brought it me up. Said she, Well, my good master don't forget us. He has sent you
a letter: and see what he writes to me. So she read, That he hoped her fair charge was well,
happy, and contented. Vesta
or kill you! [24].

[24] - Go! .. Go away or I kill you!

Going!

... This is what I wanted Batiste, more and more pale, more regretful of being there. But
well guess the meaning of this imperative "Go!" The bully, supported by assent of all samples.

Not
required to be in the tavern, ridding them of their presence odious ordered him with the threat
of death to abandon their lands, which were like the flesh of his body, that forever lost the
shack where his little boy had died, and in which every corner kept a memory of the struggles
and joys of the family in its battle with poverty. Y quickly found himself again with all
their furniture on the car, wandering the roads, in search of the unknown to create another
life, taking as grim escorts ugly hunger, which would on the heels
.... No! The shunned the issues, but does not touched the bread of
their own.

He no longer felt concern. The image of hungry and homeless families
gave aggressiveness angry.

He wanted to rush up to these people just for having demanded such
a monstrosity.

- T'en going?

"T'en you? [25] - Pimento asked increasingly gloomy and threatening.

[25] - Are you going? Are you going?

No, not leaving. He said his head, his sneer, a look of firmness challenge and set around the
circle.

- Rogue! - Roared the bully, while one of his hands fell on the face of Batiste, playing a terrible
blow.

As encouraged by such aggression, the whole run was launched against the hated intruder, but
above head of the line began to move a sinewy arm holding a seat stool Esparto, it maybe that
was until recently Pimento.

For the stout Batiste was a terrible
weapon this strong seat rails and thick legs carob, with edges polished
by use.

Shot jugs and tables, people instinctively drew back, terrified
by the aggressive gesture This man always peaceful, which now seemed
gigantic with rage, and before could all go back a step, "splat!"
heard a noise and fell exploding pot Pimento with a broken head taburetazo.
 This I say on a hint John gave me, as if you resented
something from that quarter. Dearest Pamela, answer favourably this earnest request of one
that cannot live without you, and on whose honour to you, you may absolutely depend; and so
much the more, as you place a confidence in it. I am, and assuredly ever will be,

                       'Your faithful and affectionate, etc.'

'You will be glad, I know, to hear your father and mother are well, and easy upon your last
letter. That gave me a pleasure that I am resolved you shall not repent. Mrs. Jewkes will convey
to me your answer.'

I but slightly read this letter for the present, to give way to one I had hopes of finding
by this time from Mr. Williams. I took an evening turn, as I called it, in Mrs. Jewkes's company:
and walking by the place, I said, Do you think, Mrs. Jewkes, any of my beans can have struck
since yesterday? She laughed, and said, You are a poor gardener: but I love to see you divert
yourself. She passing on, I found my good friend had provided for me; and, slipping it in my
bosom, (for her back was towards me,) Here, said I, (having a bean in my hand,) is one of them;
but it has not stirred. No, to be sure, said she, and turned upon me a most wicked jest, unbecoming
the mouth of a woman, about planting, etc. When I came in, I hied to my closet, and read as
follows:

'I am sorry to tell you that I have had a repulse from Lady Jones. She is concerned at your
case, she says, but don't care to make herself enemies. I applied to Lady Darnford, and told
her in the most pathetic manner I could, your sad story, and shewed her your more pathetic
letter. The suits were still high blades
glistening in the groups, but no one was close to Batiste, and he backed slowly back, waving the bloody
stool.

That left the square, staring eyes challenge the group around the
fallen Pimento.

They were all brave people, but they seemed dominated by the strength of this man.

Seeing the way, at a distance from the tavern, ran, and now close
to his hut tossed in a ditch the heavy stool, watching with horror
the blood blackish spots and dry.

X

Batiste lost all hope for a quiet life on their land.

The whole garden up against him again. Again had to be isolated in the hut with his family live
in a perpetual void, as an outcast, like a caged animal to which all taught his fist from afar.

His
wife had told him the next day how he was taken to his cabin the wounded bully. The same, from his
home, had heard the screams and threats of all the people that came
the bruised Pimento caring .... A true demonstration.

Women, knowing what occurred thanks to the astonishing rapidity with which the garden is spread
the news out the road for close to bravo Pepeta husband and pity him as a hero killed in the interest
of all.

The same pests hours before he spoke, shocked by his drunken bet, pitied him, found out whether
his injury was serious, shouting revenge against that 'dead hunger ", this thief, who, not
content to take what was not theirs, still trying imposed by the terror attack men as well.

Pimento
showed magnificent.

Much hurt the coup, he was leaning on his friends, with bandaged head, made an Ecce Homo,
as the indignant gossips claimed, but did efforts to smile, and at each excitation of revenge
answered with an arrogant gesture, stating that your account was running to punish the enemy.

Batiste did not doubt that these people have their revenge.

I knew the usual procedures in garden. To that land had not done justice to the city, the
fort was little thing trying to satisfy a grudge. What need a man judges or Guard civil, having
good eye and a shotgun in his shed? The things men should resolve men themselves.

And as the whole garden and thought, in vain the day after the fight went and reviewed the paths
two trays tricorn, going from house to the shed Cup Pimento for insidious questions to the people
who were in the fields. Nobody had seen anything, nobody I knew nothing had Pimento brutal laughter
how he had broken his head back of the tavern, in consequence of
its commitment, made him walk unsteadily, colliding the road into
trees, and the two police officers had to return to his barracks Alboraya,
without getting anything in light of the vague rumors of fight and
blood had reached to them.

The magnanimity of the victim and his friends alarmed to Batiste, making him live in perpetual
defensive.

The family as a frightened snail, retreated inside the house, avoiding
contact with the garden.

Small and did not attend school, stopped going Rosetta to the factory and did not Batistet one step
beyond their fields.

The father was the only one left, appearing as confident and quiet about their safety, as careful
and cautious with his era.

But there was no trip to Valencia without carrying a shotgun, leaving them confident a friend of
the suburbs. He lived in constant contact with his weapon, the most modern piece home, always
clean, bright and caressed with such affection that the farmer Valencian Moor feels for his shotgun.

Teresa
was so sad as the death of the little boy. Every time she saw her husband cleaning both barrels
of the weapon by changing the cartridges or by playing the lever to convince it opened softly,
going through his mind the image of the prison and the terrible story Uncle Barret. I saw blood,
and cursed the hour when they came established on these cursed land. And then came the hours
of concern about the absence of her husband, a endless afternoons, anguish, waiting for the
man who never returned, leaving at the door of the cabin to explore
the road, shuddering every time it sounded in the distance a hunters
shot swallow, believing the beginning of a tragedy, shot tore the
head or head of the family who opened the doors of the prison.

And when Finally, Batiste appeared, shouting with joy small, Teresa smiled wiping eyes, the daughter
came to embrace the stops and the dog jumped up beside him, sniffing
uneasily, as if sniffing him the danger he had just meet.

And Batiste, calm, steady, not arrogant, laughed at the concern of his family, showing each more
daring as time went by from the famous fight.

Considered safe. Slope of the arm while wearing the magnificent 'Bird two voices " as he called
them his gun, he could go with confidence throughout the garden. Going such good company, its enemies
pretended not to know.

Even some times he had seen from afar Pimento, who was walking in the garden as a flag of revenge
his head bandaged, and the bully, Although he was recovered from the blow, he fled, fearing
the game perhaps more than Batiste.

Everyone looked at him askance, but never heard from the fields near
the road a word insult.

Turned their back with contempt, bent over the ground and worked
feverishly out of sight.

The one who spoke was the old Tomba, the crazy pastor, who recognized him with his eyes without
light, as if Batiste smelled around the disaster environment. And always the same .... Do not
want to leave the cursed land?

- Fas wrong, meu fill, you will carry desgrasia [26].

[26] - You are wrong, my son will bring misfortune.

Batiste welcomed with a smile the old ditty.

Familiar with danger, he had never feared less than now. So I felt a certain enjoyment Secret
provoking, marching directly toward him. His feat of the pub had changed nature, peaceful and
suffered before, awakening within them a brutal aggressor. He wanted to prove to all those
people who did not feared, and opened his head Pimento he was able to walk to all the garden
shots.

And pushed him to do so would and boastful bully for a while, so I respect you, leaving you then
live in peace.

Tucked away in dangerous endeavor, even abandoned their fields, from the days when the trails the garden
under the pretext of hunting, but in reality to display his gun and his gesture few friends.

One
afternoon, pulling them into the ravine swallows Carraixet, was surprised by the dusk.

Birds with their restless flight wove a fanciful contradanza reflected by the calm ponds with
reed fringes.

This ravine, cutting the garden as a deep crack, dark, stagnant and putrid water with muddy banks
beside which stirred a rotting boat, was a desolate and wild. Nobody would have suspected
that behind the high slopes, beyond the reeds and the cañares, was the plain with cheerful
atmosphere and green perspectives. Even the sunlight seemed grim down to bottom of the ravine diffused
by a rough vegetation and dimly reflected in the stagnant water.

Batiste spent the afternoon shooting. In his belt and a few cartridges left, and his feet as lots of bloody
feathers, had two dozen birds. The great dinner! ... How happy your
family!

Starting to get dark in the deep ravine of ponds came a foul breath,
breath malarial fever poison.

The frogs sang to thousands, as if to salute the first stars, happy to not hear the shots and stopped
their croqueo and forced to throw head fearfully, breaking the smooth
glass of putrid ponds.

Batiste picked bunches of birds, hanging from his belt, and with only
two breaks up the bank, the paths undertaken by the return to his hut.

The sky, still steeped in the dim light of dusk, had a sweet tone
of purple, bright the stars and in the vast garden sounded the thousand
sounds of country life before extinguished with the arrival of the
night.

Paths passing through the returning girls city, men returning from the field, the tired horses
dragging the heavy car, and Batiste replied to 'Bona nit! "of all who passed by him, people Alboraya
did not know him or did not have reasons to hate their neighbors.

She left the village, and as it advanced toward his hut Marcab Batiste
increasingly hostile.

People bumped into him in the paths without her good night.

Entered in a foreign land, and soldier who is prepared to combat just
across the border enemy, Batiste sought in his belt of ammunition,
two bullet cartridges and BBs made by himself, and loaded his shotgun.

The big man laughed after doing this. Good dash of lead was going to get anyone who tried head
off.

He walked slowly, quietly, enjoying the fresh breath that summer night. But the calm did not
make him think about what it was risky to go the garden such hours having enemies.

His ear caught a peasant subtle noise behind her. He turned quickly, and to diffuse starlight
thought he saw a black figure out of the way with leap silent and hiding behind a bank.

Batiste requested his gun, and riding cautiously approached the keys to the site. Nobody ....
Only at some distance it seemed that the plants waved in the dark, as if a body is dragged between
them.

We were following: someone tried to surprise him treacherously in the back. But this suspicion
did not last. Perhaps it was a stray dog ​​that ran away when he felt his approach.

In short: the truth was that someone was fleeing from him, whoever
he was, and had nothing to do there.

He went on by the gloomy way, walking silently, like a man who knows his way around blind and prudence
to want no attention. As he approached his booth was greatest concern. This was his district, but
it was his most tenacious enemies.

A few minutes before reaching his home, near the farm where the girls blue dancing on Sundays,
the road was strangled, making several turns. On one side, a bank high topped by two rows of old
mulberry trees, on the other, a wide ditch, which borders slope was
covered by thick and high Canar.

This vegetation appeared in the dark an Indian forest, a canopy of swaying bamboo on the black
road.

The mass of reeds, shaken by the breeze of the night, threw a mournful cry and seemed smell
betrayal in this place, so fresh and pleasant daylight hours.

Batiste, to mock his own restlessness, exaggerated the danger mentally.

Magnificent place to let go a bullet for sure! If Pimento went around, not so despise beautiful
occasion.

And this was said just came out of the reeds a line and tongue of fire shooting an arrow red, that the dissolution
was a bang, and something whizzed past his ear next to Batiste. Thrown against him .... Instinctively
ducked, trying to be confused with the gloom of ground, do not present a target to the enemy.
And at the same time flash gleamed for a moment, rang another explosion,
mingled with the echoes still alive in the first, and she felt in
her Batiste a sore left shoulder tear, something like a steel claw
clawing surface.

It hardly stopped listening. I felt a wild joy. Two shots ... the enemy was disarmed.

- Christ! Ara't caught! [27]

[27] - Christ! Now, you rascal!

Was launched through the rushes, almost rolling down the slope of
the banks of the canal, and was stuck in waist-deep water, feet in
the mud, arms high, very high to prevent the gun will get wet, greedily
keeping the two shots so far to shoot them safely.

In their eyes cruzábanse rods, forming tight vault, almost level with
the water.

Front it was ringing in the darkness a dull splash, as if a dog flee ditch down .... There
was the enemy to him!

He began a mad dash into the deep channel, groping in the dark, leaving
losses sandals in the mud of the bed, his pants stuck to the flesh,
braces, heavy movements difficult, getting the slap in the face of
the canes cut short, the scratches and sharp rigid sheets.

There was a time when he thought he saw something black Batiste that
he clung to reeds struggling climb the embankment.

Sought to escape ... Fire! His hands, which felt the itch of murder threw the gun to his face,
left trigger ... rang shot, and dropped the package in ditch in a shower of leaves and broken
reeds.

He! To him! ... Batiste returned again to hear that splash of runaway dog, but now harder, as if the
flight spurred by extreme desperation.

Vertigo was the race through the darkness, vegetation and water. Slipped the two on the ground
flabby, unable to hold on to the cane for not releasing the shotgun
arremolinábase water, whipped by fierce career, Batiste, who fell
to his knees several times, only thought to stretch your arms to keep
his gun away from the surface, saving the shot reserve.

And the manhunt continued, groping in the darkness deep, until a revolt of the canal came to
an open space, clean the river banks of reeds.

Batiste's eyes, accustomed to the gloom of the canopy, were clearly a man who, leaning on his
gun, staggered out of the ditch, moving with difficulty his legs loaded with mud.

Was it ... It! The usual!

- Lladre ... lladre: no t'escaparás!

[28] - Batiste roared, firing his second shot from bottom of the ditch with the safety of the
shooter can aim well and knows that "made flesh."

[28] - Thief ... thief will not escape!

I saw his face fall heavily on the bank, and then crawl to not roll
into the water.

Batiste wanted to achieve, but in such haste, it was he who, stepping in false, fell full length
on the bottom of the ditch.

His head sank into the mud, swallowing the liquid earthy reddish thought he would die, be buried
in that bed of mud, and finally, with a mighty effort, he managed to straighten, drawing water
out of his eyes blinded by the limo, her mouth eagerly aspiring wind night.

Just his sight, he looked at his enemy. Had disappeared.

Dripping mud and water out of the ditch, climbed the slope on the
same site as their adversary, but on reaching the top saw him no.
In the dry land marked some blackish spots, and played with the
hands.

Smelt blood.

He well knew that he had not missed the mark. But in vain sought to contrast with the desire to
see his corpse.

Pimento That was the tough skin and blood and mud throwing was perhaps to crawl up their barracks.
From him should proceed a vague sense in rubbing it felt like the immediate areas that of
a large snake crawling through the grooves, by the barking dogs all
garden with desperate cries.

I had heard crawl the same way for fifteen minutes before, when he tried to kill him definitely
in the back, and fled to be found crawling the way to bet more there
in the thick reeds and stalk without risk.

Batiste suddenly felt afraid. He was alone in the middle of the plain, completely disarmed; his
gun, lack of ammunition, but that was no longer a weak club. Pimento could not return against
him, but he had friends. And suddenly dominated by terror, ran away, looking through field
the road leading to his hut.

The plain quivered with alarm. The four shots in the middle of the night had set in commotion
to all around. Barking dogs, increasingly angry, entreabríanse doors farms and barracks, throwing
black silhouettes that certainly did not leave empty-handed.

With whistles and shouts entendíanse the neighbors to great distances. Night shots could be a sign
of fire, thieves, who knows what! ... probably no good, and men left their homes ready for anything,
with the dedication and solidarity of living in the countryside.

Frightened by this movement, Batiste ran into his hut, stooping often to unnoticed under the slopes
or the great piles of straw.

And saw his house, with the door open
and light, in the middle of red square packages black family.

The
dog sniffed and was the first to greet him. Rosetta Teresa and gave
a cry of joy.

- Batiste, are you?

- Stop! Stop! ...

And they all
rushed to him, at the entrance of the hut, under the ancient vine,
through branches whose stars shone like fireflies.

The mother, with
his fine ear for women concerned and alarmed by the late husband,
had heard far, far away, four shots, and her heart sank, as she said.
All family had rushed to the door, eager devouring the dark horizon,
convinced detonations that alarmed the Vega had some relationship
with the father's absence.

Mad with joy to see him and hear his words,
were fixed on his face smeared with mud, in their bare feet, dirty
clothes and dripping with mud.

He pushed inward. Rosetta was hung
from his neck, sighing lovingly, with eyes still wet:

- Stop! Stop!
...

But the stand could not restrain a grimace of pain, an "oh!"
Drowned and painful. Arm Rosetta was leaning on his left shoulder
in the same place where he suffered the tear steel nail, and the weight
was now increasingly overwhelming.

Upon entering the cabin and give
full candlelight, women and the boys released a gasp. They saw the
bloody shirt ... and also the look of outlaw, as if he had to escape
from a prison going down the toilet.

Rosetta and her mother burst
into sobs. "Holy Queen! ... And Lady Sovereign! Have you had ?...»
killed

But Batiste, who had shoulder pain increasingly unbearable,
took them out of your regrets sullen gesture he ordered them to see
quickly what I had.

Rosetta, more courageous, ripped and rough-shirt
to leave the-shoulder ... Much blood! The girl turned pale, making
efforts not to faint. Batistet and young Teresa began to mourn and
the screams continued as if her husband was in agony.

But the wounded
man was to suffer no regrets and protested rudely. Less crying: that
was slight, the proof was that he could move his arm, but felt increasingly
heavier shoulder. It was a scrape, shot and nothing else. He felt
too strong for that that injury was serious. Let's see ...! water,
rags, lint, a bottle of arnica Teresa kept as a miracle cure in her
bedroom ... Moving! the case was not to be all looking at him with
your mouth open.

Teresa rummaged around his room, looking at the
bottom of the purse, ripping paintings by sliding bands, while the
girl washed washed and returned to that cleft lips bloody which started
as a saber the fleshy shoulder.

The two women were able to shortcut
such as bleeding, bandaged the wound, and breathed Batiste with satisfaction,
as if they were cured. Heaviest blows have fallen on him in his life.

And
went on to lecture the young to be prudent. From what they had seen
not a word to anyone. It was convenient to forget matters. As for my own part, it would be, as things stand,
my apparent ruin; and, worse still, I should involve you in misery too. But, yet, so great
is my veneration for you, and so entire my reliance on Providence, upon so just an occasion,
that I should think myself but too happy, if I might be accepted. I would, in this case, forego
all my expectations, and be your conductor to some safe distance. But why do I say, in this
case? That I will do, whether you think fit to reward me so eminently or not: And I will, the
moment I hear of Mr. B----'s setting out, (and I think now I have settled a very good method
of intelligence of all his motions,) get a horse ready, and myself to conduct you. I refer
myself wholly to your goodness and direction; and am, with the highest respect,

                             'Your most faithful humble servant.'

'Don't think this a sudden resolution. I always admired your hear-say character; and the moment
I saw you, wished to serve so much excellence.'

What shall I say, my dear father and mother, to this unexpected declaration? I want, now, more
than ever, your blessing and direction. But, after all, I have no mind to marry; I had rather
live with you. But yet, I would marry a man who begs from door to door, and has no home nor
being, rather than endanger my honesty. Yet I cannot, methinks, hear of being a wife.--After
a thousand different thoughts, I wrote as follows:

'REVEREND SIR,

'I am greatly confused at the contents of your last. You are much too generous, and I can't
bear you should risk all your future prospects for so unworthy a creature. I cannot think of
your offer without equal concern and gratitude: for nothing, but to avoid my utter ruin, can
make me think of a change of condition; and so, sir, you ought not to accept of such an involuntary
compliance, as mine would be, were I, upon the last necessity, to yield to your very generous
proposal. I will rely wholly upon your goodness to me, in assisting my escape; but shall not,
on your account principally, think of the honour you propose for me at present; and never,
but at the pleasure of my parents; who, poor as they are, in such a weighty point, are as much
entitled to my obedience and duty, as if they were ever so rich. I beg you, therefore, sir,
not to think of any thing from me, but everlasting gratitude, which shall always bind me to
be 'Your most obliged servant.'

Thursday, Friday, Saturday, the 14th, 15th, and 16th, of my bondage.

Mrs. Jewkes has received a letter, and is much civiller to me, and Mr. Williams too, than she
used to be. I wonder I have not one in answer to mine to my master. I suppose I put the matter
too home to him: and he is angry. I am not the more pleased with her civility; for she is horrid
cunning, and is not a whit less watchful. I laid a trap to get at her instructions, which she
carries in the bosom of her stays; but it has not succeeded.

My last letter is come safe to Mr. Williams by the old conveyance, so that he is not suspected.
He has intimated, that though I have not come so readily as he hoped into his scheme, yet his
diligence shall not be slackened, and he will leave it to Providence and himself to dispose
of him as he shall be found to deserve. He has signified to me, that he shall soon send a special
messenger with the packet to you, and I have added to it what has occurred since.

Sunday.

I am just now quite astonished!--I hope all is right!--but I have a strange turn to acquaint
you with. Mr. Williams and Mrs. Jewkes came to me both together; he in ecstacies, she with
a strange fluttering sort of air. Well, said she, Mrs. Pamela, I give you joy! I give you joy!--Let
nobody speak but me! Then she sat down, as out of breath, puffing and blowing. Why, every thing
turns as I said it would! said she: Why, there is to be a match between you and Mr. Williams!
Well, I always thought it. Never was so good a master!--Go to, go to, naughty, mistrustful
Mrs. Pamela; nay, Mrs. Williams, said the forward creature, I may as good call you: you ought
on your knees to beg his pardon a thousand times for mistrusting him.

She was going on; but I said, Don't torture me thus, I beseech you, Mrs. Jewkes. Let me know
all!--Ah! Mr. Williams, said I, take care, take care!--Mistrustful again! said she: Why, Mr.
Williams, shew her your letter, and I will shew her mine: they were brought by the same hand.

I trembled at the thoughts of what this might mean; and said, You have so surprised me, that
I cannot stand, nor hear, nor read! Why did you come up in such a manner to attack such weak
spirits? said he, to Mrs. Jewkes, Shall we leave our letters with Mrs. Pamela, and let her
recover from her surprise? Ay, said she, with all my heart; here is nothing but flaming honour
and good will! And so saying, they left me their letters and withdrew.

My heart was quite sick with the surprise, so that I could not presently read them, notwithstanding
my impatience; but, after a while, recovering, I found the contents thus strange and unexpected:

'MR. WILLIAMS,

'The death of Mr. Fownes has now given me the opportunity I have long wanted, to make you happy,
and that in a double respect: For I shall soon put you in possession of his living; and, if
you have the art of making yourself well received, of one of the loveliest wives in England.
She has not been used (as she has reason to think) according to her merit; but when she finds
herself under the protection of a man of virtue and probity, and a happy competency to support
life in the manner to which she has been of late years accustomed, I am persuaded she will
forgive those seeming hardships which have paved the way to so happy a lot, as I hope it will
be to you both. I have only to account for and excuse the odd conduct I have been guilty of,
which I shall do when I see you: but as I shall soon set out for London, I believe it will
not be yet this month. Mean time, if you can prevail with Pamela, you need not suspend for
that your mutual happiness; only let me have notice of it first, and that she approves of it;
which ought to be, in so material a point, entirely at her option; as I assure you, on the
other hand, I would have it at yours, that nothing may be wanting to complete your happiness.
'I am your humble servant.'

Was ever the like heard?--Lie still, my throbbing heart, divided as thou art, between thy hopes
and thy fears!--But this is the letter Mrs. Jewkes left with me:

'MRS. JEWKES,

'You have been very careful and diligent in the task, which, for reasons I shall hereafter
explain, I had imposed upon you. Your trouble is now almost at an end; for I have written my
intentions to Mr. Williams so particularly, that I need say the less here, because he will
not scruple, I believe, to let you know the contents of my letter. I have only one thing to
mention, that if you find what I have hinted to him in the least measure disagreeable to either,
you assure them both, that they are at entire liberty to pursue their own inclinations. I hope
you continue your civilities to the mistrustful, uneasy Pamela, who now will begin to think
better of hers and 'Your friend, etc.'

I had hardly time to transcribe these letters, though, writing so much, I write pretty fast,
before they both came up again in high spirits; and Mr. Williams said, I am glad at my heart,
madam, that I was beforehand in my declarations to you: this generous letter has made me the
happiest man on earth; and, Mrs. Jewkes, you may be sure, that if I can procure this fair one's
consent, I shall think myself--I interrupted the good man, and said, Ah! Mr. Williams, take
care, take care; don't let--There I stopt; and Mrs. Jewkes said, Still mistrustful!--I never
saw the like in my life!--But I see, said she, I was not wrong, while my old orders lasted,
to be wary of you both--I should have had a hard task to prevent you, I find; for, as the saying
is, Nought can restrain consent of twain.

I doubted not her taking hold of his joyful indiscretion.--I took her letter, and said, Here,
Mrs. Jewkes, is yours; I thank you for it; but I have been so long in a maze, that I can say
nothing of this for the present. This seemed to upset a lot to the crew captive, especially seamanship, and I even
seem to notice alarming whispers that have not been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.

Moreover,
I do not refer incidents of navigation that night, of sorts Navigation
wandering aimlessly, at the mercy of the waves, without sail or rudder.

I would not, therefore, annoy my readers repeating facts already witnessed on board the Trinidad,
and step to tell others entirely new that will surprise you as much as it surprised me.

I had lost my love to walk around the waist and bow castle, and so,
since I found aboard the Santa Ana, I turned to my master in the chamber,
where I could get some rest and feed, because of both was much needed.

There was, however, many wounded who was necessary to heal, and this occupation, very pleasant for
me, I allowed all the rest that my overwhelmed body demanded. Found myself engaged in putting D. Alonso
a bandage on his arm, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, I turned and faced with a tall, wrapped
in luengo blue cloak, and soon, as usual, did not recognize him, but watching him with attention
space of a few seconds, threw an exclamation of surprise: it was the young D. Rafael Malespina,
boyfriend of my mistress.

Clasped D. Alonso with love, and he sat next to us. He was wounded in the hand, and so pale
with fatigue and loss of blood, completely disfiguring emaciation
face.

His presence in my mind was feeling very weird, and I must confess all, although some of them
do little for me. At some point experienced a joy watching someone who has had emerged unscathed from
horrific fight, a moment later the old hatred that this subject inspired me woke up in my chest
as pain that returns to haunt sleepy after a period of relief. With shame I confess: I felt
some regret to see him safe and sound; discharge but also tell me that that pain was a sensation
as a momentary and fleeting lightning, black lightning true that obscured my soul, or rather, slight eclipse
light of my consciousness, which soon shine with splendid clarity.

The perverse part of my guy took me over a moment, in a moment I also learned to silence it
cornering at the bottom of my heart. Can they all say the same?

After this fight moral Malespina saw with joy because he was alive, and shame because I was hurt,
and yet I remember with pride that efforts to show these two feelings. Amita Poor mine! How
great would be his anguish at the time! My heart always concluded and filled with goodness,
I'd run to Vejer to say, "Miss Dona Rosa, your D. Rafael is good and healthy. "

The poor Malespina had been transported to Santa Ana from Nepomuceno, a ship seized also, where
such was the number of wounded, which was necessary, he said, handing
them out to not all perish of neglect.

As father and son changed the first greetings, devoting a few words to the absent families,
the conversation fell on the battle: Master told me what happened in the Holy Trinity, and
then added:

"But nobody tells me where is a fixed point Gravina.

Have you taken prisoner, or retired to Cadiz?

- General - Malespina said - he said a horrific fire at Defiance and Revenge. Have aided and abetted
the Neptune, French, and the San Ildefonso and San Justo, our, but the forces the enemy is
doubled with the help of Dreadnoutgh, the Thunderer and Poliphemus, after which it was impossible
any resistance. Finding himself the Prince of Asturias with all cut the rigging, no sticks,
riddled with bullets, and having been wounded General Gravina and Maj. Gen. Seaton, resolved
to abandon the struggle, because all resistance was insane and the battle was lost. In one
other signal masts put Gravina withdrawal, and accompanied by the San Justo, San Leandro, mountaineering,
Indomptable, the Neptune and the Argonaut, he went to Cadiz, with the pain of not being able
to rescue the San Ildefonso, has been held by the enemy.

- Tell
me what you spent in Nepomuceno - "my love with great interest -.

Even I can not believe he is dead Churruca, and though all give it as a certainty, I have the
belief that divine man must be alive somewhere. "

Malespina said that unfortunately he had witnessed the death of Churruca, and promised tell
time. Circle formed around him some officers, and I, most curious them, I became all ears to
not lose a syllable.

"Since we left Cadiz - said Malespina - Churruca had a premonition of this great disaster. He had
felt from the start because I knew the inferiority of our forces and also little confidence in
the intelligence chief Villeneuve. All his predictions have come some, all, until his death,
it is clear that the sensed, as it was safe not to achieve victory. On 19 Apodaca told his
brother: "First take my ship, the I have to fly or sink. This is the duty of serving the King and
the fatherland. " The same day he wrote to his friend, saying: "If you come to know that my ship has
been taken prisoner, say that I am dead.

"

"It was known in the sadness of his countenance grave which included a disastrous outcome. I I believe
that this certainty and the impossibility of help, feeling strong
enough Thus, deeply troubled soul, capable of great deeds, as well
as large thoughts.

"Churruca was a religious man, he was a superior man. The 21, at eleven o'clock, sent up all
the soldiers and sailors, led to their knees, and said the chaplain with a solemn voice: "Follow
You, Father, with his ministry, and acquit those brave unaware of what awaits them in combat. "
After the religious ceremony, ordered them to standing, and speaking persuasively and firm, said:
"My children, in the name of God, I promise bliss to die doing their duty! If any are missing
them, I will shot immediately, and if it escapes my eyes or those of the brave officers I
have the honor to command, his remorse while he will drag the rest
of their days miserable and unhappy.

"

"This harangue, so eloquent and simple, that unites the performance of military duty with the religious
idea, caused excitement in the whole envelope of Nepomuceno. What a pity value! Everything
was lost as a treasure that falls to the bottom of the sea. Sighted the British Churruca with
the greatest displeasure was early operations mandated by Villeneuve, and when it signals made
the squad virase round, which, as everyone knows, embarrassed the order of battle, told his second
and missed the action felt so awkward strategy. Since then realized the risky plan of Nelson,
which was to cut our line through the center and rear, involving
the combination square and partially breaking their ships, with such
a provision, given that these could not help.

"The Nepomuceno came to be the end of the line. Rompiose fire between Santa Ana and Royal Sovereign,
and on all the ships were going into combat.

Five ships English Division Collingwood went against San Juan, but two of them moved on, and Churruca
faced no more than triples forces.

"We argued strongly against such a superior enemy until two in the afternoon, suffering much, but
returning double havoc to our opponents. The great spirit of our heroic leader seemed to have
communicated to soldiers and sailors, and maneuvers, as well as shots
were made with astonishing promptness.

Cam people had been educated in the heroism, no more than two hours of learning, and our ship,
for its glorious defense was not only terror, but the astonishment of the British.

"They needed reinforcements, took six to one. The two vessels became who had attacked us first,
and was Dreadnoutgh the side of San Juan, to beat us medium shot of a gun. You go figure the fire
of the six giants, throwing bullets and shrapnel over a 74-gun ship. It seemed that our ship grew
larger, growing in size, as it grew the courage of its defenders.

The gigantic proportions taking souls, it seemed that also took the bodies, and to see how forces
instilled fear six times, we thought we were something more than men.

"Meanwhile, Churruca, that was our thinking, directed the action with astonishing serenity. Realizing
that the skill had to supply a force, save the shots, and trusted all to the good shot, thus
ensuring that every bullet made a positive havoc in enemies. To all attending, all available, and
shrapnel and bullets ran over his head, but never once flinched.

The man, weak and sickly, whose beautiful and sad born face to face did not seem as scary scenes,
infused us all mysterious burning, only the beam of his eyes.

"But God did not come out alive from the terrible strife. Seeing that it was not possible hostilities
to a ship by the bow bothered to San Juan with impunity, was himself to point the canyon and
managed dismast the contrary. Returned to the quarter-deck, where a cannonball hit him right
leg, with such success that the off almost more painful as the upper thigh. We ran to support
him, and the hero fell into my arms. How terrible time! I still think I feel under my hand
the violent beating of a heart, which until at that terrible moment, but did not beat the homeland.
His physical decline was very rapid: I saw him struggling to straighten
the head, he leaned on his chest, I saw him trying to revive with
a smile his face covered and a deadly pallor, while a voice hardly
altered, he exclaimed: This is nothing.

Follow the fire.

"Her spirit rebelled against death, hiding the sharp pain of a maimed body, whose rearward palpitations
were extinguished in seconds. Try to lower the camera, but was unable to wrest the castle. At
last, yielding to our prayer, he realized it was necessary to leave the command. Called Moyna,
his second, and said he was dead; called the commander of the first
battery, and this, though severely wounded, went to the castle and
took over the command.

"Since then the crew bailed: giant became dwarf disappeared value, and realized that it was essential
to surrender. The consternation that I was owned since I got in my arms the hero of San Juan,
I do not see the terrible prevented effect caused in the minds of all of this misfortune.
As if a sudden paralysis moral and physical crew had invaded and they were all frozen and
mute, without the pain caused by the loss of dear man gave rise to
the embarrassment of surrender.

"Half the people were dead or wounded, most of the guns removed, the masts, except the foremast
had fallen, and the rudder was not working. In so pitiful state, still wanted to make an effort to
follow the Prince of Asturias, who had raised the sign of withdrawal, but the Nepomuceno,
mortally wounded, could not govern in any direction. And despite the ruin and destruction of the ship,
despite the dismay of the crew despite to attend our damage such
unfavorable circumstances, none of the six English ships dared to
try an approach.

Feared for our ship, even after they quit.

"Churruca, in a paroxysm of his agony, he ordered the flag stick and not to give the ship while he
lived. The period could not but be unfortunately very short, because Churruca was dying in a hurry, and
those who assisted him that asombrábamos we still encourage a body in such a state, and was thus
kept him strength of spirit, attached to irresistible commitment to life, because for him at
that time life was a duty. Did not lose consciousness until the final moments, did not complain
of pain or regret for his end was near; Rather, every effort was above all that the officers
did not know the severity your state, and any failure in its duty. He thanked the crew for
their heroic behavior, addressed some words to his brother Ruiz de Apodaca, and after dedicate
a memorial to his young wife, and raise the thoughts to God, whose name we hear softly spoken
several times by his dry lips, ended with the peace of just and the strength of heroes, without
the satisfaction of victory, but also without resentment of the defeated; involving the duty
to dignity, and making the discipline a religion as a military strong, serene as a man, without
uttering a complaint, or accuse anyone with such dignity in death as in life. We beheld his body
still warm, and we seemed to lie, we thought we had to wake up to send back, and we had to cry
less fortitude than he to die, for the expiry took all the courage, the whole enthusiasm that
had inspired us.

"Rindiose the San Juan, and when the officers boarded the six ships that had shattered, each
intended for himself the honor of receiving the sword of the dead brigadier. Everyone said,
"has surrendered to my ship," and played for a while claiming the honor of victory for either
of the vessels belonged. Commander wanted San Juan accidental decide the issue, saying which of
the English ships had surrendered, and he answered: "To all, which
one would never have given up the San Juan.

In the face of the corpse of the late Churruca, the English, who knew him by the fame of its value and
understanding, showed great distress, and one of them said this or something similar:

"Illustrious Men like this should not be exposed to the hazards of
combat, and other preserved for the advancement of the science of
navigation.

" After the funeral was arranged to make forming the British army and navy of the Spanish side,
and all their actions were Gentlemen, magnanimous and generous.

"The number of wounded on board the San Juan was so considerable that
transported us to other own ships, or prisoners.

       I happened to pass it, which has been among the most abused; but
they have it can be towed to Gibraltar before any other, because they
can not be to Trinidad, the largest and most coveted of our ships.

"

* * * * *

Malespina ended here, which was heard with deep attention during the story of what had witnessed.
From what I heard, I understand that on board each ship had been a tragedy so dreadful as that I had
witnessed, and said to me:

"How Disaster, Holy God, caused by the
stupidity of one man!".

And although I was then a boy, I remember thinking that: "A foolish
man can not do at any point in their lives the nonsense that sometimes
make the nations, led by hundreds men of talent.

"

-XIV-

Much of the night was spent with the relationship Malespina and other officials. Interest of those
stories kept me awake and so excited that I could not even long after sleep. I could not take
my mind the image of Churruca as I saw him safe and sound at home of Mrs. Flora. And indeed,
at that time had caused surprise me expressing the intense sadness
of the famous ocean's face, as if it presaged his painful and near
end.

Noble life that was extinguished at forty-four years old, after twenty-nine of honorable service
in the army, as wise, as a military and as navigator, because everything was Churruca, plus
perfect gentleman.

In these and other things I thought when my body finally gave in to fatigue, and I was asleep at
dawn on 23, having overcome my youth to my curious nature. During sleep, it must have been long
and not quiet, rather shaken by the images and nightmares characteristic of the excitement of
my brain, felt the roar of gunfire, the voices of the battle, the noise of the surging waves.
At the same time I dreamed that I was firing the pieces, that rose to the rigging, sweeping
the artillery batteries encouraging, and until commanded maneuver at the quarter-deck as an admiral.
Suffice to say that was at odds forged battle within my own brain, I beat all the English have
or might have, more easily than if your boat out of cardboard, and
bread crumb its bullets.

I had under my logo as a thousand ships, over all the Trinidad, and moved on a whim as accurately
as toys with my friends and I had fun in the puddles La Caleta.

But at last, all these glories faded, which, being as they were purely dream, no wonder, when
we see the real also vanish. It was over when I opened my eyes and I saw my littleness, associated
with the magnitude of disasters that had attended. But strange thing!, Awake, gunfire also felt, I
felt the awful rumor the fray, and shouts that heralded a major activity in the crew. I thought
I still dream; I sat on the couch where he slept, attended with care,
and, indeed, a thunderous Long live the King cry hurt my ears, leaving
no doubt that the ship was Santa Ana beating again.

I went outside, and I take care of the situation. The weather had calmed down considerably:
on the windward some ships were dismantled, and two of them British, were firing on the Santa Ana,
who defended under two others, one Spanish and one French.

I explained that sudden change in our situation of prisoners, looked aft and saw our flag floating
instead of English. What had happened?, Or rather, what happened?

In the quarter-deck was one that I knew was General Álava, and, though wounded in several parts
of his body, showed strong enough to run that second battle for perhaps to make people forget about
the Santa Ana misadventures of the first. The officers encouraged to the crew, it carried and
fired the pieces that had been serviceable, while some were engaged
in guarding, teniéndoles at bay, the English, who had been disarmed
and herded into the first deck.

The officers of this nation, formerly our guardians had become prisoners.

I understood it. The heroic commander of Santa Ana, D. Ignacio M. Alava, seeing Some Spanish ships were
approaching, coming out of Cadiz, in order to dam ships prisoners and save the crew of the wrecked
near, went with patriotic language his dejected crew. This responded to the voice of his boss
with a supreme effort, forced to surrender to the British who were guarding the ship, again
hoisted the Spanish flag, and Santa Ana was free, but engaged in
another struggle, perhaps more dangerous than first.

This singular audacity, one of the most honorable episodes of Trafalgar day is conducted in a dismasted
ship, rudderless, with half of its people killed or injured, and the remainder in a moral and
physical situation entirely regrettable. Was necessary, once consummated that act, addressing
its consequences: two English vessels, also very poor showing, made fire on the Santa Ana, but
it was promptly rescued by the Assisi, Montana and Lightning, three of which were removed with
Gravina day 21, and had gone out to rescue the imprisoned. Those noble invalid locked new
and desperate struggle, perhaps with more courage than the first,
because the wounds not trapped fuel the rage in the soul combatants,
and they seem to fall out with more zeal, because they have less life
to lose.

The incidents all the terrible day 21 were renewed in my eyes: the excitement was great; but
people are scarce, so it was necessary to duplicate the effort. Become so sensitive is that heroic
had been in our history more than a short page, if it is true that
with the great event is now known as the Battle of Trafalgar of these
episodes shrink and disappear almost as weak flashes in a horrific
night.

Then I witnessed an event that made me shed tears. Not finding my love for no hand, and fearing
to run any danger, I went down to the first battery and found him busy to point a gun. His trembling
hand had picked up the Botafuegos of a sailor injured and the weakened view of his right eye,
looking for the unfortunate point where I wanted to send the bullet.

When the piece is fired, he turned to me, trembling with joy, and
a voice that just I could understand, he said:

"Ah, now Paca not
laugh at me.

We will triumph in Cadiz. "

In short, the fight ended happily, because the British inability to
understand the of damming the Santa Ana, whom he favored, over the
three ships set, two and a French frigate, which arrived in the thick
of the fight.

We were free in the most glorious, but at the point at which concluded that feat, began to be
clear about the danger we were in, as the Santa Ana had to be towed to Cadiz, because of the
poor condition of its hull. The French frigate took a cable Themis steered north, but what that
force might have to tow another boat so heavy as the Santa Ana, and could only help with the
sails torn left in the club ratchet? The ships had rescued us, that is, the Lightning, Montana
and the San Francis of Assisi, later wanted to take his powers, and forced to sail to rescue also
to the San Juan and the Bahamas, which were marinated by the British. We were, therefore,
alone, without more shelter than the frigate that was dragging us, driving a giant child. What
would we be if the English, as expected, was recovering from his defeat and returned with new
reinforcements to haunt us? Meanwhile, it appears that Providence favored us because wind, conducive
to the progress that we had, drove to our frigate, and after her,
led lovingly, the ship was coming to Cadiz.

Five miles separated us from the port.

What unspeakable satisfaction!

Our troubles soon be completed and soon would put his foot on solid ground, and if we had
the news of major disasters, we had also happiness many who suffered fatal heart trouble believing
lost forever to returning alive and healthy.

The boldness of the Spanish ships was no more successful than the
rescue of Santa Ana, for I uploaded the time and had to retreat without
being able to chase the English ships that guarding the San Juan,
Bahama and San Ildefonso. Even four leagues of the term distábamos
of our trip when we go back. The storm had rages, and was general
opinion aboard the Santa Ana that if it took us to arrive, we would
spend very hard time. I hinted, that I would not have scrupled to have procured
your deliverance by any means; and that I had proposed to you, as the only honourable one,
marriage with me. But I assured her, though she would hardly believe me, that you discouraged
my application: which is too true! But not a word of the back-door key, etc.'

Mrs. Jewkes continues still sullen and ill-natured, and I am almost afraid to speak to her.
She watches me as close as ever, and pretends to wonder why I shun her company as I do.

I have just put under the tiles these lines inspired by my fears, which are indeed very strong;
and, I doubt, not without reason.

'SIR,

'Every thing gives me additional disturbance. The missed letter of John Arnold's makes me suspect
a plot. Yet am I loath to think myself of so much importance, as to suppose every one in a
plot against me. Are you sure, however, the London journey is not to be a Lincolnshire one?
May not John, who has been once a traitor, be so again?--Why need I be thus in doubt?--If I
could have this horse, I would turn the reins on his neck, and trust to Providence to guide
him for my safeguard! For I would not endanger you, now just upon the edge of your preferment.
Yet, sir, I fear your fatal openness will make you suspected as accessary, let us be ever so
cautious.

'Were my life in question, instead of my honesty, I would not wish to involve you, or any body,
in the least difficulty, for so worthless a poor creature. But, O sir! my soul is of equal
importance with the soul of a princess; though my quality is inferior to that of the meanest slave.

'Save then my innocence, good Heaven! and preserve my mind spotless; and happy shall I be to
lay down my worthless life; and see an end to all my troubles and anxieties.

'Forgive my impatience: But my presaging mind bodes horrid mischiefs! Every thing looks dark
around me; and this woman's impenetrable sullenness and silence, without any apparent reason,
from a conduct so very contrary, bid me fear the worst.--blame me, sir, if you think me wrong;
and let me have your advice what to do; which will oblige

                                        'Your most afflicted servant.'

Friday. Allánense the British to admit that possible
the emergence of a playwright who is worth more than Shakespeare, and we allanémonos to confess
that it is possible the emergence of a superior novelist Cervantes. In what we do not As Allan
and I did not flatten, is that this novel has already appeared, and less to be Tolstoy, or
Zola Bourget. But while someone came to convince anyone of these novelists now worth more than
Cervantes, I still did not convince me that the superiority was to exercise or use of a most exquisite
art and deep, but that Zola, for instance, God had given more intelligence, more estrus, most
inventive and depth of ideas and feelings that Miguel de Cervantes, where it had limited to
write little things for mere pastime, not penetrate beyond the cortex and epidermis, while Zola as
a diver plunges into the most obscure spiritual recesses of the human being taking away the light
of day mysterious secrets, never revealed before.

Yet, given this, and no small grant, I have an objection. Are not we will involve the notions
of art and science? Is it valued most, because it has more content Scientific works of art that
another work of art? Germinal cheap demos contains more a lot more science than the ingenious
gentleman, but even then can infer that Germinal be best novel. You might as well, in view of
modern developments, inference, not a basic treaty, but the most compendious book of agriculture
is worth a thousand times the Georgics. The Georgics may not teach but nonsense and errors,
while studying Primer can understand any subject become more than average farmer. But Art not intended
for that purpose. It proposes the creation of breathtaking beauty that delights, snatches and
elevates the soul, which is achieved with the Georgics, where the read is capable of understanding;
but do not get with the card, which is available to the most stupid, that no one not understand, and reporting
useful knowledge. But what to achieve this end is not always better to write cards that poems
or novels? All that the wisest teach novel day you can encrypt anything in a couple of the more
modest flat primer. And so, leaving aside of wisdom that the novel circle, will peel and lirondo
the artwork, which then Fashion passes is another day and public taste is almost certain that gender
bored human and will fall into oblivion or contempt.

How am I to deny me that mankind has come a long way?

Their culture is like a capital is increasing every day, either by new profits as revenues that
are not spent and accumulate. What I deny is that art, like art, progressing to two of the
culture.

I do not like to defend paradoxes. If you liked it, I would defend to the contrary, with no
little complacency, because the most divine and admirable art is in general and particularly in a word,
is the inspired, spontaneous, as in some unconscious way, say what is on top of all individual
consciousness in the collective mind in impersonal reason, the superior ingenuity of peoples
and races and even the divinity, which reveals or believe that is revealed. And although I do
not deny the possibility and continuity of present and future revelations, I find more suited
to the primitive ages of present age such cases, which can well be
described as supernatural and divine.

It does not prevent the above that the technical side, the manufacturing industry is in the literary
day later and more contained than in past centuries. Hence, for each of novels that were written
one or two hundred years ago, today are written hundreds or even thousands. To which contributes
greatly that today more people have read them and buy them. But the same states as outdated
and ephemeral nature of current production. How do I remove merit
that I managed to create an audience, gain their attention and sympathy
and entertain and amused for ten, twenty or thirty years, with the
stories you write? But, alas! how are my prospects
again overclouded, to what they were when I closed my last parcel!--More trials, more dangers,
I fear, must your poor Pamela be engaged in: But through the Divine goodness, and your prayers,
I hope, at last, to get well out of all my difficulties; and the rather, as they are not the
effect of my own vanity or presumption!

But I will proceed with my hopeless story. I saw Mr. Williams was a little nettled at my impatience;
and so I wrote to assure him I would be as easy as I could, and wholly directed by him; especially
as my father, whose respects I mentioned, had assured me my master was setting out for London,
which he must have somehow from his own family or he would not have written me word of it.

Saturday, Sunday. Come therefore
have all Shakspeare for the first time in Castilian. Must be judged, quickly at least, but with the
same impartiality that if it were our countryman.

I am far more than the exaggerated praise of Victor Hugo and Emerson, of contempt and mockery of
Voltaire and his imitator Moratin. I confess that Voltaire's analysis
of Hamlet I have started several times tears of laughter, but not
for that reason I have never Voltaire. Poor man! he has got but little by his openness, making Mrs. Jewkes his
confidant, as she bragged, and would have had me to do likewise.

I am more and more satisfied there is mischief brewing; and shall begin to hide my papers,
and be circumspect. Those who have written in Spain
Cervantes is the number of very short compared to those in England have written about Shakspeare.
Our warm praise of Cervantes are compared to those that have been to Shakspeare in England.
Moreover, much like in everything, even in some children and naive gifts same have been down
there on Shakspeare, which Cervantes around here. Both have been philosophers, doctors, lawyers
and good officers or teachers in almost all trades, but in truth, both mills were laymen, and
Shakspeare than Cervantes, if well all know by penetration, liveliness of wit, for wit and
insight in serene gaze to observe it, embrace it and understand everything at first sight.

As
have not had to toil both British and the Spanish scholars, is find
out who they were, where were the characters that put into action
its poet.

Don Quixote, Sancho, Dulcinea, Sanson Carrasco, the Duke, Clara, Dorothy, Lucinda, Cardenio,
Altisidora, Maese Pedro, and many others, have no history, and one must look to labored diligently
in the archives, and then reveal to the world the truth that interesting all these real life
characters lived, and were baptized in this or that parish. But Shakspeare's characters and
the actions they perform or intervening, are, rather than in his dramas, in chronicles, poems
and legends, or other tragedies that Shakspeare refluxing.

Few authors have taken more than the others that Shakspeare. Everything seemed fine, sublime,
fun, enjoyable, funny, I took without scruple where he was.

He said a discreet, in literature, not only apologize, but glorifies the theft when he follows the
murder. Shakspeare knew this maxim, and not left to kill those who stole it. Authors stolen no
one would remember if they had not been stolen. All died: but Shakspeare lives, and those authors created
characters that evoked a life or vague and as shade, and a uncertain light, dusk and uncertain,
have been brought by Shakspeare to crystal radiant light of immortal glory, and a life stronger,
clearer, more real than all heroes of history.

This is without doubt the greatest merit, the biggest mystery, the most powerful charm of genius
Shakspeare.

On this side and this side is the most important, few poets will advance in all modern literature.
 But to enter into a
vile intrigue with the amiable gewgaw, to favour her escape in so base a manner, (to say nothing
of his disgraceful practices against me, in Sir Simon Darnford's family, of which Sir Simon
himself has informed me), is a conduct that, instead of preferring the ungrateful wretch, as
I had intended, shall pull down upon him utter ruin.

'Monsieur Colbrand, my trusty Swiss, will obey you without reserve, if my other servants refuse.

'As for her denying that she encouraged his declaration, I believe it not. And I have no doubt that the most ardent naturalists
day stop quoting the Iliad as a paragon and model of the more remarkable naturalism.

The rub, then, and the masterful touch of any work of literature is not pleasant to follow fashion,
but in giving fashion or rather become so by top fashion and so on top of progress and moving, that
all new fashion and is allowed to rest in that work by presenting as a paragon and trying to convince
the public of the excellence of the new, not because of their disagreement,
but because of its similarity to that model immortal.

Let there be works of this kind on the day and what they are, is what I would not venture to decide.
The sentence is difficult. Posterity will no doubt the issue. Suffice us to recognize the
relative merit of those that interest, amuse or thrill to his writings, even for a short number
of years, a number of people who call your audience. And to achieve this is to much. Which he
does deserve admiration and applause, and even moves to envy, who do not have the selfless and
generous soul, but from this runaway victory to the glorious immortality to victory over those
authors who has been revered the world over many centuries and many
generations who have exalted the critics, there is great distance,
over which no one can give a jump without falling into absurdity. O add not, said I, to my afflictions! I shall be soon out of all your
ways! This is too much! too much! I never can support this--and threw myself upon the couch,
in my closet, and wept most bitterly. She read it in the next room, and came in again afterwards. 

To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular political and economics
of these natural, according to the generality with which it is practiced in these villages to
you come more aware of the lights, genius and habit of all. 

Final lesson of all. We, therefore we are not wise, we write diffusely As seems to us, but
we must not imagine that we teach, nor to improve humanity, or that we open new and hidden paths.


