Meanwhile, in the few days which elapsed before that visit was due, Diana was much called on
by the country-side. The girl restrained her restlessness, and sat at home, receiving everybody
with a friendliness which might have been insipid but for its grace and spontaneity. She disliked
no one, was bored by no one. The joy of her home-coming seemed to halo them all. Even the sour
Miss Bertrams could not annoy her; she thought them sensible and clever; even the tiresome
Mrs. Minchin of Minchin Hall, the "gusher" of the county, who "adored" all mankind and ill-treated
her step-daughter, even she was dubbed "very kind," till Mrs. Roughsedge, next day, kindled
a passion in the girl's eyes by some tales of the step-daughter. Mrs. Colwood wondered whether,
indeed, she could be bored, as Mrs. Minchin had not achieved it. Those who talk easily and
well, like Diana, are less keenly aware, she thought, of the platitudes of their neighbors.
They are not defenceless, like the shy and the silent.

Nevertheless, it was clear that if Diana welcomed the neighbors with pleasure she often saw
them go with relief. As soon as the house was clear of them, she would stand pensively by the
fire, looking down into the blaze like one on whom a dream suddenly descends--then would often
call her dog, and go out alone, into the winter twilight. From these rambles she would return
grave--sometimes with reddened eyes. But at all times, as Mrs. Colwood soon began to realize,
there was but a thin line of division between her gayety and some inexplicable sadness, some
unspoken grief, which seemed to rise upon her and overshadow her, like a cloud tangled in the
woods of spring. Good feeling was restored, and the cheeks brought the Anglo "venison, turkies, wild
fowl, bread all that they had, singing and dancing out in their sign
of friendship till they departed." This account is much more readable
than the former narration. But whenever they occurred, Mrs.
Colwood found her own mind invincibly recalled to that name on the box of papers, which still
haunted her, still brought with it a vague sense of something painful and harrowing--a breath
of desolation, in strange harmony, it often seemed, with certain looks and moods of Diana.
But Mrs. Colwood searched her memory in vain. And, indeed, after a little while, some imperious
instinct even forbade her the search--so rapid and strong was the growth of sympathy with the
young life which had called her to its aid.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day of the Marsham visit arrived--a January afternoon clear and frosty. In the morning
before they were to start, Diana seemed to be often closeted with her maid, and once in passing
Miss Mallory's open door, her companion could not help seeing a consultation going on, and
a snowy white dress, with black ribbons, lying on the bed. Heretofore Diana had only appeared
in black, the strict black which French dressmakers understand, for it was little more than
a year since her father's death. The thought of seeing her in white stirred Mrs. Colwood's
expectations.

Tallyn Hall was eight miles from Beechcote. The ladies were to drive, but in order to show
Mrs. Colwood something of the country, Diana decreed that they should walk up to the downs
by a field path, meeting the carriage which bore their luggage at a convenient point on the
main road.

The day was a day of beauty--the trees and grass lightly rimed, the air sparkling and translucent.
Nature was held in the rest of winter; but beneath the outward stillness, one caught as it
were the strong heart-beat of the mighty mother. Diana climbed the steep down without a pause,
save when she turned round from time to time to help her companion. Her slight firm frame,
the graceful decision of her movements, the absence of all stress and effort showed a creature
accustomed to exercise and open air; Mrs. Colwood, the frail Anglo-Indian to whom walking was
a task, tried to rival her in vain; and Diana was soon full of apologies and remorse for having
tempted her to the climb.

"Please!--please!"--the little lady panted, as they reached the top--"wasn't this worth it?"

For they stood in one of the famous wood and common lands of Southern England--great beeches
towering overhead--glades opening to right and left--ferny paths over green turf-tracks, and
avenues of immemorial age, the highways of a vanished life--old earth-works, overgrown--lanes
deep-sunk in the chalk where the pack-horses once made their way--gnarled thorns, bent with
years, yet still white-mantled in the spring: a wild, enchanted no-man's country, owned it
seemed by rabbits and birds, solitary, lovely, and barren--yet from its furthest edge, the
high spectator, looking eastward, on a clear night, might see on the horizon the dim flare
of London.

Diana's habitual joy broke out, as she stood gazing at the village below, the walls and woods
of Beechcote, the church, the plough-lands, and the far-western plain, drawn in pale grays
and purples under the declining sun.

"Isn't it heavenly!--the browns--the blues--the soberness, the delicacy of it all? Oh, so much
better than any tiresome Mediterranean--any stupid Riviera!--Ah!" She stopped and turned, checked
by a sound behind her.

Captain Roughsedge appeared, carrying his gun, his spaniel beside him. He greeted the ladies
with what seemed to Mrs. Colwood a very evident start of pleasure, and turned to walk with them.

"You have been shooting?" said Diana.

He admitted it.

"That's what you enjoy?"

He flushed.

"More than anything in the world."

But he looked at his questioner a little askance, as though uncertain how she might take so
gross a confession.

Diana laughed, and hoped he got as much as he desired. Then he was not like his father--who
cared so much for books?

"Oh, books!" He shrugged his shoulders. "Well, the fact is, I--I don't often read if I can
help it. But of course they make you do a lot of it--with these beastly examinations. They've
about spoiled the army with them."

"You wouldn't do it for pleasure?"

"What--reading?" He shook his head decidedly. "Not while I could be doing anything else."

"Not history or poetry?"

He looked at her again nervously. But the girl's face was gay, and he ventured on the truth.

"Well, no, I can't say I do. Sixe or seven weekes those Barbarians kept him prisoner, many strange
triumphes and conjurations they made of him, yet hee so demeaned
himselfe amongst them, as he not onely diverted them from Fort, but
procured his owne, and got himself and his company that such estimation
amongst them, that more Salvages admired him more than their owne.

When this newes came to Alicia Jamestowne, much was their sorrow
for his losse, fewe expecting what ensued.

It exhibits Smith's craft as a writer and his capacity for rising into
poetic moods. The manner how they used and delivered him, is as followeth.
"the Salvages having drawne from George Cassen whether dead Arrowsmith
was gone, prosecuting that opportunity why they laughed him with 300
bowmen, conducted by Pamaunkee, who in-- divisions were searching
the turnings of the stream, found Robinson and Entry by the fireside,
of those they shot full of arrowes and mr. Away finding the captaine
as is said, that used the Salvage that was his guide as his shield
(three of them being captaine and divers others so gauld) all the
rest would not come then him.

Grape of have returned to his boat, regarding them, as he marched,
more neere his way, slipped down to the middle parties in an oasie
creeke and his Heart with him, yet durst they not come to him till
being neere bright with cold, he threw then his armes.

Then according to their composition i drew him is forth and led him to
firing, where his men were slaine.
 The eyes of both had seen;
the hearts of both had felt.

And now, in the English House of Commons, there were men who doubted and sneered about these
things--who held an Afridi life dearer than an English one--who cared nothing for the historic
task, who would let India go to-morrow without a pang!

Misguided recreants! But Mrs. Colwood, looking on, could only feel that had they never played
their impish part, the winter afternoon for these two companions of hers would have been infinitely
less agreeable.

For certainly denunication and argument became Diana--all the more that she was no "female
franzy" who must have all the best of the talk; she listened--she evoked--she drew on, and
drew out. Mrs. Colwood was secretly sure that this very modest and ordinarily stupid young
man had never talked so well before, that his mother would have been astonished could she have
beheld him. What had come to the young women of this generation! Their grandmothers cared for
politics only so far as they advanced the fortunes of their lords--otherwise what was Hecuba
to them, or they to Hecuba? But these women have minds for the impersonal. Diana was not talking
to make an effect on Captain Roughsedge--that was the strange part of it. Hundreds of women
can make politics serve the primitive woman's game; the "come hither in the ee" can use that
weapon as well as any other. But here was an intellectual, a patriotic passion, veritable,
genuine, not feigned.

Well!--the spectator admitted it--unwillingly--so long as the debater, the orator, were still
desirable, still lovely. She stole a glance at Captain Roughsedge. Was he, too, so unconscious
of sex, of opportunity? Ah! that she doubted! The young man played his part stoutly; flung
back the ball without a break; but there were glances, and movements and expressions, which
to this shrewd feminine eye appeared to betray what no scrutiny could detect in Diana--a pleasure
within a pleasure, and thoughts behind thoughts. At any rate, he prolonged the walk as long
as it could be prolonged; he accompanied them to the very door of their carriage, and would
have delayed them there but that Diana looked at her watch in dismay.

"You'll hear plenty of that sort of stuff to-night!" he said, as he helped them to their wraps.
"'Perish India!' and all the rest of it. All they'll mind at Tallyn will be that the Afridis
haven't killed a few more Britishers."

Diana gave him a rather grave smile and bow as the carriage drove on. Mrs. Colwood wondered
whether the Captain's last remark had somehow offended her companion. But Miss Mallory made
no reference to it. Instead, she began to give her companion some preliminary information as
to the party they were likely to find at Tallyn.

As Mrs. Colwood already knew, Mr. Oliver Marsham, member for the Western division of Brookshire,
was young and unmarried. He lived with his mother, Lady Lucy Marsham, the owner of Tallyn Hall;
and his widowed sister, Mrs. Fotheringham, was also a constant inmate of the house. Mrs. Fotheringham
was if possible more extreme in opinions than her brother, frequented platforms, had quarrelled
with all her Conservative relations, including a family of stepsons, and supported Women's
Suffrage. It was evident that Diana was steeling herself to some endurance in this quarter.
As to the other guests whom they might expect, Diana knew little. She had heard that Mr. Ferrier
was to be there--ex-Home Secretary, and now leader of the Opposition--and old Lady Niton. Diana
retailed what gossip she knew of this rather famous personage, whom three-fourths of the world
found insolent and the rest witty. "They say, anyway, that she can snub Mrs. Fotheringham,"
said Diana, laughing.

"You met them abroad?"

"Only Mr. Marsham and Lady Lucy. Papa and I were walking over the hills at Portofino. We fell
in with him, and he asked us the way to San Fruttuoso. We were going there, so we showed him.
Papa liked him, and he came to see us afterwards--several times. Lady Lucy came once."

"She is nice?"

"Oh yes," said Diana, vaguely, "she is quite beautiful for her age. You never saw such lovely
hands. And so fastidious--so dainty! I remember feeling uncomfortable all the time, because
I knew I had a tear in my dress, and my hair was untidy--and I was certain she noticed."

"It's all rather alarming," said Mrs. Colwood, smiling.

"No, no!"--Diana turned upon her eagerly. "They're very kind--very, very kind!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The winter day was nearly gone when they reached their destination. But there was just light
enough, as they stepped out of the carriage, to show a large modern building, built of red
brick, with many gables and bow-windows, and a generally restless effect. As they followed
the butler through the outer hall, a babel of voices made itself heard, and when he threw open
the door into the inner hall, they found themselves ushered into a large party.

There was a pleased exclamation from a tall fair man standing near the fire, who came forward
at once to meet them.

"So glad to see you! But we hoped for you earlier! Mother, here is Miss Mallory."

Lady Lucy, a woman of sixty, still slender and stately, greeted them kindly, Mrs. Colwood was
introduced, and room was made for the new-comers in the circle round the tea-table, which was
presided over by a lady with red hair and an eye-glass, who gave a hand to Diana, and a bow,
or more precisely a nod, to Mrs. Colwood.

"I'm Oliver's sister--my name's Fotheringham. That's my cousin--Madeleine Varley. Madeleine,
find me some cups! This is Mr. Ferrier--Mr. Ferrier, Miss Mallory.--expect you know Lady Niton.--Sir
James Chide, Miss Mallory.--Perhaps that'll do to begin with!" said Mrs. Fotheringham, carelessly,
glancing at a further group of people. "Now I'll give you some tea."

Diana sat down, very shy, and a little flushed. Mr. Marsham hovered about her, inducing her
to loosen her furs, bringing her tea, and asking questions about her settlement at Beechcote.
He showed also a marked courtesy to Mrs. Colwood, and the little widow, susceptible to every
breath of kindness, formed the prompt opinion that he was both handsome and agreeable.

Oliver Marsham, indeed, was not a person to be overlooked. His height was about six foot three;
and his long slender limbs and spare frame had earned him, as a lad, among the men of his father's
works, the description of "two yards o' pump-waater, straight oop an' down." But in his thin
lengthiness there was nothing awkward--rather a graceful readiness and vigor. And the head
which surmounted this lightly built body gave to the whole personality the force and weight
it might otherwise have missed. The hair was very thick and very fair, though already slightly
grizzled. It lay in heavy curly masses across a broad head, defining a strong brow above deeply
set small eyes of a pale conspicuous blue. The nose, aquiline and large; the mouth large also,
but thin-lipped and flexible; slight hollows in the cheeks, and a long, lantern jaw. The whole
figure made an impression of ease, power, and self-confidence.

"So you like your old house?" he said, presently, to Diana, sitting down beside her, and dropping
his voice a little.

"It suits me perfectly."

"I am certain the moat is rheumatic! But you will never admit it."

"I would, if it were true," she said, smiling.

"No!--you are much too romantic. You see, I remember our conversations."

"Did I never admit the truth?"

"You would never admit it was the truth. And my difficulty was to find an arbiter between us."

Diana's face changed a little. He perceived it instantly.

"Your father was sometimes arbiter," he said, in a still lower tone--"but naturally he took
your side. I shall always rejoice I had that chance of meeting him."

Diana said nothing, but her dark eyes turned on him with a soft friendly look. His own smiled
in response, and he resumed:

"I suppose you don't know many of these people here?"

"Not any."

"I'm sure you'll like Mr. Ferrier. He is our very old friend--almost my guardian. Of course--on
politics--you won't agree!"

"I didn't expect to agree with anybody here," said Diana, slyly.

He laughed.

"I might offer you Lady Niton--but I refrain. To-morrow I have reason to believe that two Tories
are coming to dinner."

"Which am I to admire?--your liberality, or their courage?"

"I have matched them by two socialists. Which will you sit next?"

"Oh, I am proof!" said Diana. "'Come one, come all.'"

He looked at her smilingly.

"Is it always the same? Are you still in love with all the dear old abuses?"

"And do you still hate everything that wasn't made last week?"

"Oh no! We only hate what cheats or oppresses the people."

"The people?" echoed Diana, with an involuntary lift of the eyebrows, and she looked round
the immense hall, with its costly furniture, its glaring electric lights, and the band of bad
fresco which ran round its lower walls.

Oliver Marsham reddened a little; then said:

"I see my cousin Miss Drake. May I introduce her?--Alicia!"

A young lady had entered, from a curtained archway dividing the hall from a passage beyond.
She paused a moment examining the company. The dark curtain behind her made an effective background
for the brilliance of her hair, dress, and complexion, of which fact--such at least was Diana's
instant impression--she was most composedly aware. At least she lingered a few leisurely seconds,
till everybody in the hall had had the opportunity of marking her entrance. Then beckoned by
Oliver Marsham, she moved toward Diana.

"How do you do? I suppose you've had a long drive? Don't you hate driving?"

And without waiting for an answer, she turned affectedly away, and took a place at the tea-table
where room had been made for her by two young men. Reaching out a white hand, she chose a cake,
and began to nibble it slowly, her elbows resting on the table, the ruffles of white lace falling
back from her bare and rounded arms. Her look meanwhile, half absent, half audacious, seemed
to wander round the persons near, as though she saw them, without taking any real account of them.

"What have you been doing, Alicia, all this time?" said Marsham, as he handed her a cup of tea.

"Dressing."

An incredulous shout from the table.

"Since lunch!"

Miss Drake nodded. Lady Lucy put in an explanatory remark about a "dressmaker from town," but
was not heard. The table was engaged in watching the new-comer.

"May we congratulate you on the result?" said Mr. Ferrier, putting up his eye-glass.

"If you like," said Miss Drake, indifferently, still gently munching at her cake. Then suddenly
she smiled--a glittering infectious smile, to which unconsciously all the faces near her responded.
"I have been reading the book you lent me!" she said, addressing Mr. Ferrier.

"Well?"

"I'm too stupid--I can't understand it."

Mr. Ferrier laughed.

"I'm afraid that excuse won't do, Miss Alicia. You must find another."

She was silent a moment, finished her cake, then took some grapes, and began to play with them
in the same conscious provocative way--till at last she turned upon her immediate neighbor,
a young barrister with a broad boyish face.

"Well, I wonder whether you'd mind?"

"Mind what?"

"If your father had done something shocking--forged--or murdered--or done something of that
kind--supposing, of course, he were dead."

"Do you mean--if I suddenly found out?"

She nodded assent.

"Well!" he reflected; "it would be disagreeable!" 

I looked enquiringly at her.

"do you know," cried she, "i have gone well a good to thousand?

He is thus natured-fancy, such a sterling character, and his roughness
wears off when one knows him only."

"and moreover," added i, "he has five hundred Moreland dollars."

"which
are by the means no least of his recommendations. Quite think of the
balls, Howard! I hope you will come to them. And then saratoga; next
twelvemonth London and Paris. Oh! it will be delightful."

"what, so far
taken already?" said i, sarcastically.

"Well, I tried to cry," said the girl, putting another grape into her mouth, and quietly nodding
at her interlocutor--"I did--honor bright. But--really--what does it matter what your father did?"

"My dear!" said Lady Lucy, softly. Her singularly white and finely wrinkled face, framed in
a delicate capote of old lace, looked coldly at the speaker.

"By-the-way," said Mr. Ferrier, "does not the question rather concern you in this neighborhood?
I hear young Brenner has just come to live at West Hill. I don't now what sort of a youth he
is, but if he's a decent fellow, I don't imagine anybody will boycott him on account of his
father's misdoings."

He referred to one of the worst financial scandals of the preceding generation. Lady Lucy made
no answer, but any one closely observing her might have noticed a sudden and sharp stiffening
of the lips, which was in truth her reply.

"Oh, you can always ask a man like that to garden-parties!" said a shrill, distant voice. The
group round the table turned. The remark was made by old Lady Niton, who sat enthroned in an
arm-chair near the fire, sometimes knitting, and sometimes observing her neighbors with a malicious
eye.

"Anything's good enough, isn't it, for garden-parties?" said Mrs. Fotheringham, with a little
sneer.

Lady Niton's face kindled. "Let us be Radicals, my dear," she said, briskly, "but not hypocrites.
Garden-parties are invaluable--for people you can't ask into the house. By-the-way, wasn't
it you, Oliver, who scolded me last night, because I said somebody wasn't 'in Society'?"

"You said it of a particular hero of mine," laughed Marsham. "I naturally pitied Society."

"What is Society? Where is it?" said Sir James Chide, contemptuously. "I suppose Lady Palmerston
knew."

The famous lawyer sat a little apart from the rest. Diana, who had only caught his name, and
knew nothing else of him, looked with sudden interest at the man's great brow and haughty look.
Lady Niton shook her head emphatically.

"We know quite as well as she did. Society is just as strong and just as exclusive as it ever
was. But it is clever enough now to hide the fact from outsiders."

"I am afraid we must agree that standards have been much relaxed," said Lady Lucy.

"Not at all--not at all!" cried Lady Niton. "There were black sheep then; and there are black
sheep now."

Lady Lucy held her own.

"I am sure that people take less care in their invitations," she said, with soft obstinacy.
"I have often heard my mother speak of society in her young days,--how the dear Queen's example
purified it--and how much less people bowed down to money then than now."

"Ah, that was before the Americans and the Jews," said Sir James Chide.

"People forget their responsibility," said Lady Lucy, turning to Diana, and speaking so as
not to be heard by the whole table. "In old days it was birth; but now--now when we are all
democratic--it should be character.--Don't you agree with me?"

"Other people's character?" asked Diana.

"Oh, we mustn't be unkind, of course. But when a thing is notorious. Take this young Brenner.
His father's frauds ruined hundreds of poor people. How can I receive him here, as if nothing
had happened? It ought not to be forgotten. He himself ought to wish to live quietly!"

Diana gave a hesitating assent, adding: "But I'm sorry for Mr. Brenner!"

