I left everything, locked the store and started out to procure a rig, but found there were
none to be had for love or money. The only article of propulsion we could hire were saddle
mules. Both quickly mounted and on a slow trot started for the ring. We had been there less
than an hour when both of us became thoroughly disgusted and started on the return trip. When
about seven miles from Denver and going at a lively pace--for a mule--the Major's animal stiffened
both front legs, and placing his hoofs firmly in the sandy road, permitted the Major's chunky
little body to pass over his head and through space for about ten feet, landing, with much
force, on his stomach. The old fellow was an artist at curse words and the more I laughed the
more he cursed. He was a sprightly little fellow and on gaining his feet grabbed for the bridle,
but Mr. Mule shook his head, made a side step, and the devil could not have caught him again
until he reached the barn. I dismounted and with much difficulty my friend scrambled into my
saddle, with myself on behind. But my long-eared critter objected and the fun commenced. He
bunted and kicked. All of a sudden his hind quarters rose and like lightning his long lanky
legs shot high into the air. First, I went off, and on gaining a sitting position with mouth,
ears and eyes full of sand, I witnessed a spectacle befitting the clumsiest bareback rider
on one of their first lessons. The old Major had both arms affectionately entwined around the
mule's thick neck and was hanging on with desperation. Up and down went the hind quarters of
that unkind brute, bunting and kicking, the Major's little body keeping taps with the ups and
downs and every time he caught his breath he let out a war whoop that would do credit to a
Commanche brave. The old mule finally dumped him all in a heap and followed his mate to Denver.
Such an appearance as both presented, each blaming the other for our misfortune and vowing
we would never be caught at another prize fight. Lame, bruised, and crestfallen, we walked
the remainder of the way into Denver. Each cautioned the other to say nothing of our misfortune;
but the two Mauds had carried the news ahead, and we were the laughing stock of the town for
the next nine days.

At another time I was attending a performance in the "Old Languish Theater," when from the
stage I was informed I was wanted in the bar room of the building, a necessary adjunct to all
western theaters in those days. Upon entering I was taken by the hand by one of those trusty
and warm-hearted stage drivers of the plains and Rockies, and told that my chum had been caught
in one of those treacherous mountain snow storms on the Catchla Purder River two miles above
La Port and was badly frozen, and, if he didn't receive medical aid at once, could not survive.
I left the theater at once and commenced preparing plans for the trip. I started unaccompanied
the following afternoon at 2:30 o'clock on a one hundred fifty mile ride.

A RIDE IN A STORM

My conveyance was a long old-fashioned buggy. The buggy, which was well filled with straw,
blankets, medicine, grub, and a commissary bottle, had two good roadsters hitched in front
to wheel me to the rescue of my friend or to an ignominious death. I had not only Indians to
fear, but the treacherous elements. The trail ran close along the base of the mountains. It
was a lovely May day. I was obliged to make thirty-two miles that night to reach cover. Less
than half of the distance had been traveled when the wind veered suddenly to the north, mild
at first, then a hurricane of anger, roaring and blowing with such force as to nearly upset
the buggy. Dark clouds gathered and floated around those silent peaks of ages. Lightning darted
hither and thither among the stalwart pines, which were creaking, bending and crashing. Clap
after clap of thunder pealed through and from those dismal canyons, vibrating between Nature's
slopes of granite, quartz and rock. The din was fearful, rain fell at first, then turned to
snow. Just before it became dark I adjusted the front piece of the buggy. My compass was useless.
I urged my faithful steeds to faster speed, and at the same time gave them the rein. As I did
so, they left the trail. Cold and chilled to the marrow or very bone, I took frequent drafts
from the commissary bottle, and fought with all my power against sleep, but it was useless.

On gaining partial consciousness two squaws were bending over me rubbing me with all their
Indian strength and a third forcing something warm down my throat. Men, rough of dress, were
smoking and playing cards. Revolvers, chips and gold was in front of each, with plenty of the
latter in the center of the table. I knew not if they were friends or mountain highwaymen.
Many claim that horses are dumb brutes with no instinct, but that faithful pair on leaving
the trail avoided a long bend and made straight for the adobe stage ranch, sixteen miles away.
On reaching it, they ran the buggy-pole through the only opening of that mud shack rousing
the inmates to action and bringing me to safety.

The large Concord coach filled with passengers soon arrived from Denver, and owing to the severity
of the storm, put up for the night. The time was passed in smoking, drinking and playing cards.
At six o'clock the next morning the coach pulled up at the door. The storm was over, but not
the wind. The cold was intense. My team soon came up, but their ears and noses were badly frost
bitten and otherwise showed the effects of the storm. I followed the coach but for a short
distance only, as the snow which was drifting badly obliterated the trail. The six black horses
on the coach were too much for my two bays and soon left me far in the rear. My compass had
been lost and by noon I was back at the ranch I had previously left, the horses having made
nearly a complete circle without my knowledge. I secured another compass and at nine o'clock
that evening rolled into La Port, a city of adobe ranches, and stage station, where I put up
for the night. (A place of two or three houses in those days was called a city.) I was informed
that my chum was two miles up the river and in bad shape. The next morning I was up at day
break. After grub I started and found my companion quartered in a little old log cabin at the
base of the mountains, and being cared for by an aged squaw and her daughter--the old buck
being out caring for the cattle. My chum had encountered the same kind of a storm as his rescuer,
and unable to find his way was obliged to remain out the entire night and only one hundred
feet from the cabin. Both of his feet were badly frozen. The Indians had done everything possible
for him. The daughter, for an Indian, was extremely pretty, and I soon discovered that she
was very much taken with my chum. I applied the remedies which I had brought. Then the little
Indian maiden bundled him up, and with the promise that he would return they parted.

We were at once off on the return trip and arrived at the stage ranch, where I was cared for
the previous night at just six o'clock. On driving up to the door of the station all three
of the reaches of the buggy broke and gently dropped us to the ground. Fortunately there was
a blacksmith connected with the station and I assisted him through the long night, forging
reaches and repairing the buggy. At daylight we were off, reaching Denver in safety at 3:30
that afternoon and making the trip in just three days.

Both of my chum's feet had to be amputated at the insteps. He was very grateful and quite conscious
of the fact that true friendship still existed.

Before leaving the governor's employ, I accompanied a mule train of ten wagons with supplies
for the Ute tribe of Indians who lived in one of the parks of the mountains in the vicinity
of Pike's Peak. The Utes, at that particular time, were on friendly terms with the white men
as there was a treaty of peace existing between them and the Government.

CHAPTER V

A PROOF OF MARKSMANSHIP

 We took with us a Mr. Baker, who was conceded to be
one of the best guides, hunters, trappers and interpreters of that
day, with a heart as large as an American bison, and as tender as a
child's. But when his anger was aroused by danger or treachery, the
very devil seemed to possess him; he had the courage of a lion, and
was a dead shot. We had been friends for a long time, and on more than
one occasion he had proved a true one.

The park was an ideal summer resort, an extended plateau with acres of fresh green grass, wild
flowers, and virgin soil. In the center was a beautiful lake, its ice cold water well stocked
with the finny tribe of speckled mountain trout, the delight of the angler. The park was inclosed
by mountains of great height and grandeur, their rocky slopes were dotted with spruce, pine,
and cottonwood, and capped with ages of crystal snow, presenting a sight more pleasing to the
eye than the Falls of Niagara, and a perfect haven for an Indian maiden's love dream.

We had been in camp but a few days when Mr. Baker informed me that the young bucks, as the
men of the tribe were called, wanted us to join in shooting at a target. After Mr. Baker and
myself had made a few bull's eyes, they proposed we two should choose sides, and we did so.
The teams were very evenly matched, making the game interesting. In the meantime, I had been
presented to the chief in true Indian fashion and in turn was made known by him to his squaw,
young bucks and maidens. The Indians had their tribal laws and customs as well as the white
man and were required to live up to them. The maidens were two in number, their ages fourteen
and seventeen moons respectively; the latter a picture of Indian beauty, perfect in every feature,
form and carriage, a rare model for an artist. They were nearly always found together. At first
they were quite reserved, but finally we became fast friends; we would ramble, hunt, fish from
canoes and sail the placid waters of the little lake.

Early on the morning of the tenth day Mr. Baker entered my tent with a troubled look. I bade
him good-morning and inquired the cause. Without fencing, he asked me if I wanted to be a squaw
man. I asked him what the devil he was getting at.

AN OFFER OF MATRIMONY

He replied, "All there is to it, the old chief has taken a great liking to you, and wants you
to marry Weenouah, his oldest daughter. He has plenty of money, and his horses and cattle run
into four figures."

"That is no inducement," I said, "and it could never be."

Mr. Baker asked, "How are you going to get out of it?"

I replied, "I have been in lots of tight places, as you know, and have always managed to squeeze
through, and I'll get out of this one in some way."

Little did either of us dream at that time of the manner, or rather the sacrifice, that one
of us was doomed to bear, for me to escape the wrath of the old chief, when informed I would
not marry his daughter. Fate decreed he was never to be so informed, but instead, a most cruel
and unfortunate accident was to provide the means.

