Moreover, there was something, she could not tell exactly what, about Miss Panney's words and
manner, which put an unsatisfactory aspect upon the obvious methods of Cicely's communications
with her employer.

Mrs. Drane's mind had already been slightly disturbed on this subject, but Miss Panney had
revived and greatly increased the disturbance.

CHAPTER XXX

A CONFIDENTIAL ANNOUNCEMENT

Having finished her visit of ceremony, Miss Panney asked permission of Miriam to see Molly
Tooney. That woman was, in a measure, her protégé, and she had some little business with her.
Declining to have the cook sent for, Miss Panney descended to the kitchen.

She had not talked with Molly more than five minutes, and had not approached the real subject
of the interview, which concerned the social relations between the Haverleys and the Dranes,
when the Irishwoman lifted up her hands, and opened wide her eyes.

"The Saints an' the Sinners!" she exclaimed, "if here isn't that auld drab of a sausage, that
cook of the docther's, a comin' here again to tell me how to cook for them Dranes. Bad luck
to them, they don't pay me nothin', an' only give me trouble."

Miss Panney turned quickly, and through the window she saw La Fleur approaching the kitchen door.

"She comes here to tell you how to cook for those people?" said Miss Panney, quickly.

"Indade she does, an' it's none of her business, nather, the meddlin' auld porpoise."

"Molly," said Miss Panney, "go away and leave me here. I want to talk to this woman."

"Which is more than I do," said the cook, and straightway departed to the floor above.

La Fleur had come to see Mrs. Drane, but perceiving Miss Panney's phaeton at the door, she
had concluded that there was company in the house, and had consequently betaken herself to
the kitchen to make inquiries. When she found there Miss Panney, instead of Molly Tooney, La
Fleur was surprised, but pleased, for she remembered the old lady as one who appreciated good
cookery and a good cook.

"How do you do, La Fleur," said Miss Panney. "I am glad to see you. I suppose you still keep
up your old interest in Mrs. Drane and her daughter. Do you often find time to come out here
to see them?"

"Not often, madam, but sometimes. I can always find time for what I really want to do. If I
like to be away for an hour or two, I'll sit up late the night before, long after midnight
sometimes, planning the meals and the courses for the next day, and when I go away, I leave
everything so that I can take it right up, the minute I get back, and lose nothing in time
or in any other way."

"It is only a born chef who could do that," said Miss Panney, "and it is very pleasant to see
your affection for your former employers. Do you suppose that they will remain here much longer?"

"Remain!" exclaimed La Fleur; "they've never said a word to me, madam, about going away, and
I don't believe they have thought of it. I am sure I haven't."

Miss Panney shook her head.

"It's none of my business," she said, "but I've lived a long time in this world, and that gives
me a right to speak my mind to people who haven't lived so long. It may have been all very
well for the Dranes to have come here for a little vacation of a week or ten days, but to stay
on and on is not the proper thing at all, and if you really have a regard for them, La Fleur,
I think it is your duty to make them understand this. You might not care to speak plainly,
of course, but you can easily make them perceive the situation, without offending them, or
saying anything which an old servant might not say, in a case like this."

"But, madam," said La Fleur, "what's to hinder their stopping here? There's no spot on earth
that could suit them better, to my way of thinking."

"La Fleur," said Miss Panney, regarding the other with moderate severity, "you ought to know
that when people see a young woman like Miss Drane brought to live in a house with a handsome
young gentleman, who, to all intents and purposes, is keeping a bachelor's hall,--for that
girl upstairs is entirely too young to be considered a mistress of a house,--and when they
know that the young lady's mother is a lady in impoverished circumstances, the people are bound
to say, when they talk, that that young woman was brought here on purpose to catch the master
of the house, and I don't think, La Fleur, that you would like to hear that said of Mrs. Drane."

As she listened, the bodily eyes of La Fleur were contracted until they were almost shut, but
her mental eyes opened wider and wider. She suspected that there was something back of Miss
Panney's words.

"If I heard anybody say that, madam, meaning it, I don't think they would care to say it to
me again. But leaving out all that and looking at the matter with my lights, it does seem to
me that if Mr. Haverley wanted a mistress for his house, and felt inclined to marry Miss Cicely
Drane, he couldn't make a better choice."

"Choice!" repeated Miss Panney, sarcastically. "He has no choice to make. That is settled,
and that is the very reason why people will talk the more and sharper, and nothing you can
say, Madam Jane La Fleur, will stop them. Not only does this look like a scheme to marry Mr.
Haverley to a girl who can bring him nothing, but to break off a most advantageous match with
a lady who, in social position, wealth, and in every way, stands second to no one in this county."

"And who may that be, please?" asked La Fleur.

Miss Panney hesitated. It would be a bold thing to give the answer that was on her tongue,
but she was no coward, and this was a crisis of importance. A proper impression made upon this
woman might be productive of more good results than if made upon any one else.

"It is Miss Dora Bannister," she said, "and of course you know all about the Bannister family.
I tell you this, because I consider that, under the circumstances, you ought to know it, but
I expect you to mention it to no one, for the matter has not been formally announced. Now,
I am sure that a woman of your sense can easily see what the friends of Mr. Haverley, who know
all about the state of affairs, will think and say when they see Mrs. Drane's attempt to get
for her daughter what rightfully belongs to another person."

If it had appeared to the mind of La Fleur that it was a dreadful thing to get for one's daughter
a lifelong advantage which happened to belong to another, she might have greatly resented this
imputation against Mrs. Drane. But as she should not have hesitated to try and obtain said
advantage, if there was any chance of doing it, the imputation lost force. She did not, therefore,
get angry, but merely asked, wishing to get as deep into the matter as possible, "And then
it is all settled that he's to marry Miss Bannister?"

"Everything is not yet arranged, of course," said Miss Panney, speaking rapidly, for she heard
approaching footsteps, "and you are not to say anything about all this or mention me in connection
with it. I only spoke to you for the sake of the Dranes. It is your duty to get them away from
here."

She had scarcely finished speaking when Miriam entered the kitchen. La Fleur had never seen
her before, for on her previous visit it had been Ralph who had given her permission to interview
Molly Tooney, and she regarded her with great interest. La Fleur's long years of service had
given her many opportunities of studying the characters of mistresses, in high life as well
as middle life, but never had she seen a mistress like this school-girl, with her hair hanging
down her back.

Miriam advanced toward La Fleur.

"My cook told me that you were here, and I came down, thinking that you might want to see me."

