 On such small trains, Mrs Brater could often
recognize how her husband never forgot they even in the worst and everything else miss out
rather than they left; This experience gives every woman a proud, exhilarating sense of security,
because it is this the highest level of conjugal fidelity.

The 14 December 1858 was the election day. From then on until his death, Brater of continuously
Member has remained. This election was the first public recognition and a turning point for him.
Not as if the enmity of the other party would have decreased, but the friendship of the like-minded
people dare now out; He was no longer the Verfemte, whose handling avoided the Kluge, open advocacy
for and against him in the Chamber and increasing attention on the part of the opponents had him
from then on, and the old woman PFAFF retained right with their statement:
as Brater is not to blame, all must yet least be good.

This faithful mother had experienced even now an other Frontage; their son Hans, who now was Professor
of mathematics at the trade school in Erlangen, was able to finally allow. silent, faithful love
the bride.

«You writes about: "your father is mild voted its consent gave no external reason and invited
Hans to come through the death of a son. I have to say, Hans has remained faithful, and this
is but the main thing.

" Their youngest son of Fritz saw they set up the own household also in Erlangen, where he worked
as a Professor of geology and mineralogy.

His scientific works, his popular lectures followed Pauline with the innate interest at any time and
as often as they wrote this brother, always had some scientific questions, which is her and she
asked him to the reply. «In one of his letters we find therefore the kidding remark: "more than
three questions are not answered in a letter.

Mrs PFAFF lived in a House on the Catholic Church square, her son
Hans had bought, from now and their day's work was now accomplished,
alone there were soon there soon to help the young household and remained
her life contents, what the Bible calls delicious: effort and work.

Also in the family Brater, she even often had come to help. In the first years, Pauline the devotion of
the mother as something quite natural had accepted as probably the most young women do; but the
longer she turned in their own home, more found her the kindness
of her mother and she expresses this in a letter to the same.

» Do not you think dear mother, as I am this time on you, you have now so long already only my nurse,
but now I hope that you can, enjoy you once a bit with me and only no longer tell me of the
be superfluous, it is true you have gradually your children come this far, that the holes are
patched them, even without that you needle, but even if they all
are well, so they always know that the love and participation other;
to replace a mother nothing I think also the more gradually have your
children to mothers and fathers the more they learn to appreciate
you are them what, nevertheless that the soup is cooked them even
by a maid.

Of the children I can report you also as far as good, they are they much neater and liebenswürdiger
as you from Erlangen, have in mind, because it's wonderful how so children are equally overconfident
when they are guests, where one pampers them everywhere,. It's amazing what these two creatures
have to thankful heart, and her conscience comes anywhere useful. They are always very pleased
with your beautiful handwriting: ›Der grandmother you can read but that letters, only it has
some letters a bißle verlernt‹.» The children had now become schoolchildren and visited the
elementary school. Almost wistfully, the mother in notes also the small was so large that she
though to set even the mother in the Dämmerstündchen on the lap, but face even a very coy change
to make because of the long legs, who lay. «Such gentle on the lap and the like learned sit while
the small "every now and then, as a whole was there but not on the
mother nature and claims also with their principles.

How was scarce the children with food and clothing, with amusement and gifts, including with caress
and caresses. The children should not note it how expensive the parents were, but rather for»
weeds keep and be grateful that it tolerated it

.
 After long negotiations, many Effort
it was possible to adopt the reasoning of such a leaf to be seriously considered. And while
in Munich, in the original headquarters of the enemy. To the execution of a so bold plan but
could not think of, when a man of outstanding ability became of considerable authority in the
country and inviolable character of the line. For the fact that the occurrence of a just against
Prussia, sincerely devoted to the national cause Newspapers in Munich with the greatest difficulty
will be linked, that only very unusual services are likely to be Mr hope it could deceive no one. Everything
depended by whether Brater might decide to leave its editorial strength, perhaps its existence
to pay.

I remember clearly the detailed discussions which we had in the summer about the matter. As always,
he considered all the moments of the matter with the objectivity of a affected by any circumstances Judge,
the high political importance, indeed necessity of the company, he knew perfectly on, but about his
predicament, the almost insurmountable obstacles that he meet would, he was wrong, either. In particular,
it was clear that for him personally almost sacrifice too great to be connected. was after a
long, arduous, full of privations work He finally reaches the point to gain a significant
position in Bavaria. Did he in the circle of Bavarian politics, he was a public highly satisfactory,
ie for Interest fruitful and his modest personal demands expectant future not escape.
 His best efforts came from the divine, and if they now take in the earthly shell
are banned, they will not be united with their divine Origin? Yes, if we sink into it, then
our sorrow is transformed into a tendon and striving for the same forces and then the best, then
the spirit of our mother stayed with us.

By the same author are published by Gundert in from Stuttgart:

The first school year .= = A story for children of 7-12 years. Tomorrow at 3:30 in the afternoon, she, who had the truest loving heart that this
world could possibly hold, is to be buried.

Louise has not felt the blow as hard as we had thought she might, probably
because she is preoccupied with her own suffering(typhoid). This faithful member of
our household was full of common sense. The maid brought much happiness and taught much that was
good to the children as they assisted her because of her knee pain
in dealing with the couch.