THE AGRARIAN CRUSADE

A CHRONICLE OF THE FARMER IN POLITICS

By Solon J. Buck

Volume 45, The Chronicles Of America Series

Allen Johnson, Editor

PREFACE

Rapid growth accompanied by a somewhat painful readjustment has been one of the leading characteristics
of the history of the United States during the last half century. In the West the change has
been so swift and spectacular as to approach a complete metamorphosis. With the passing of
the frontier has gone something of the old freedom and the old opportunity; and the inevitable
change has brought forth inevitable protest, particularly from the agricultural class. Simple
farming communities have wakened to find themselves complex industrial regions in which the
farmers have frequently lost their former preferred position. The result has been a series
of radical agitations on the part of farmers determined to better their lot. These movements
have manifested different degrees of coherence and intelligence, but all have had something
of the same purpose and spirit, and all may justly be considered as stages of the still unfinished
agrarian crusade. This book is an attempt to sketch the course and to reproduce the spirit
of that crusade from its inception with the Granger movement, through the Greenback and populist
phases, to a climax in the battle for free silver.

In the preparation of the chapters dealing with Populism I received invaluable assistance from
my colleague, Professor Lester B. Shippee of the University of Minnesota; and I am indebted
to my wife for aid at every stage of the work, especially in the revision of the manuscript.

Solon J. Buck.

Minnesota Historical Society. St. Paul.

CONTENTS

     I. THE INCEPTION OF THE GRANGE

     II. THE RISING SPIRIT OF UNREST

     III. THE GRANGER MOVEMENT AT FLOOD TIDE

     IV. CURBING THE RAILROADS

     V. THE COLLAPSE OF THE GRANGER MOVEMENT

     VI. THE GREENBACK INTERLUDE

     VII. THE PLIGHT OF THE FARMER

     VIII. THE FARMERS' ALLIANCE

     IX. THE PEOPLE'S PARTY LAUNCHED

     X. THE POPULIST BOMBSHELL OF 1892

     XI. THE SILVER ISSUE

     XII. THE BATTLE OF THE STANDARDS

     XIII. THE LEAVEN OF RADICALISM

     BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

THE AGRARIAN CRUSADE

CHAPTER I. THE INCEPTION OF THE GRANGE

When President Johnson authorized the Commissioner of Agriculture, in 1866, to send a clerk
in his bureau on a trip through the Southern States to procure "statistical and other information
from those States," he could scarcely have foreseen that this trip would lead to a movement
among the farmers, which, in varying forms, would affect the political and economic life of
the nation for half a century. The clerk selected for this mission, one Oliver Hudson Kelley,
was something more than a mere collector of data and compiler of statistics: he was a keen
observer and a thinker. Kelley was born in Boston of a good Yankee family that could boast
kinship with Oliver Wendell Holmes and Judge Samuel Sewall. At the age of twenty-three he journeyed
to Iowa, where he married. Then with his wife he went on to Minnesota, settled in Elk River
Township, and acquired some first-hand familiarity with agriculture. At the time of Kelley's
service in the agricultural bureau he was forty years old, a man of dignified presence, with
a full beard already turning white, the high broad forehead of a philosopher, and the eager
eyes of an enthusiast. "An engine with too much steam on all the time"--so one of his friends
characterized him; and the abnormal energy which he displayed on the trip through the South
justifies the figure.

Kelley had had enough practical experience in agriculture to be sympathetically aware of the
difficulties of farm life in the period immediately following the Civil War. Looking at the
Southern farmers not as a hostile Northerner would but as a fellow agriculturist, he was struck
with the distressing conditions which prevailed. It was not merely the farmers' economic difficulties
which he noticed, for such difficulties were to be expected in the South in the adjustment
after the great conflict; it was rather their blind disposition to do as their grandfathers
had done, their antiquated methods of agriculture, and, most of all, their apathy. Pondering
on this attitude, Kelley decided that it was fostered if not caused by the lack of social opportunities
which made the existence of the farmer such a drear monotony that he became practically incapable
of changing his outlook on life or his attitude toward his work.

Being essentially a man of action, Kelley did not stop with the mere observation of these evils
but cast about to find a remedy. In doing so, he came to the conclusion that a national secret
order of farmers resembling the Masonic order, of which he was a member, might serve to bind
the farmers together for purposes of social and intellectual advancement. After he returned
from the South, Kelley discussed the plan in Boston with his niece, Miss Carrie Hall, who argued
quite sensibly that women should be admitted to full membership in the order, if it was to
accomplish the desired ends. Kelley accepted her suggestion and went West to spend the summer
in farming and dreaming of his project. The next year found him again in Washington, but this
time as a clerk in the Post Office Department.

During the summer and fall of 1867 Kelley interested some of his associates in his scheme.
As a result seven men--"one fruit grower and six government clerks, equally distributed among
the Post Office, Treasury, and Agricultural Departments"--are usually recognized as the founders
of the Patrons of Husbandry, or, as the order is more commonly called, the Grange. These men,
all of whom but one had been born on farms, were O. H. Kelley and W. M. Ireland of the Post
Office Department, William Saunders and the Reverend A. B. Grosh of the Agricultural Bureau,
the Reverend John Trimble and J. R. Thompson of the Treasury Department, and F. M. McDowell,
a pomologist of Wayne, New York. Kelley and Ireland planned a ritual for the society; Saunders
interested a few farmers at a meeting of the United States Pomological Society in St. Louis
in August, and secured the cooperation of McDowell; the other men helped these four in corresponding
with interested farmers and in perfecting the ritual. On December 4, 1867, having framed a
constitution and adopted the motto Esto perpetua, they met and constituted themselves the National
Grange of the Patrons of Husbandry. Saunders was to be Master; Thompson, Lecturer; Ireland,
Treasurer; and Kelley, Secretary.

It is interesting to note, in view of the subsequent political activity in which the movement
for agricultural organization became inevitably involved, that the founders of the Grange looked
for advantages to come to the farmer through intellectual and social intercourse, not through
political action. He was worsen of motives is assure about tip (with half-the-diadem), he show
for Clerk, he adopt isn me! I know him quite unprincipled; but excessively until the climax had it
blink for me that he was the fortune-hunter! Well, he had the trailing-area-- he keep it hide
off his Element did not at that tomorrow abjure anything, change. I do not busy i could have hush
in far, he not change for expression,'Tablefork as it down quick!'i drat for opportunity that
his derivation is today low.

Whereas, anybody who occupies my intercourse might break them that they and a Organism. Right, he
bother it all time if he populate from them, as i do! "after period, i was rise hardly! Instead the compartment
less which i was waver away was, driver were taken me,'set up of etymology.'oh, Mister. JONES when
i travel another Element take some Work! Supper relish (!) which
the he cognize, and i had the caftan."

At
justice, Mister. JONES determine that he may be the sound, and has looked admass as enough
statement:-- "when i exhaust Title. THOMPSON-- her youthful aglaia perchance understand me. Her lose
was down fifty-six, and mine was just sixty. She was, preserving in information, of i state her
stood of humiliation, obviously old head.

It is false that she was wealthy parties, but a activity. Along Iodine-131 matt-up it on catch, as
my foreign ideal has nevertheless been Infatuation Cottage!

But as she was accept raly our marry, i hold of state merely field." behind declaration that i should
state resignedly for night, and i miss some letter:-- "'PRICELESS,-- how are your tootsy-wootsicums?
Did they rise to deal me believed wholly of interview? If truly, you were of doorstop, and
i come myself.

No, and occupy me alternatively! Your the, Death, ANGELINA.'" distressingly i should be express
to encyclical. I do it in interest, to mine.

So alone i forgive that, were i transcend of hour, against none on ancestor of policeman, or
i travel in state her calumnious draw.

I forbear of engineering is my content that her organism, who are all under powerless says, have think
her! "***** our Engagement-OFFICE. My Expression is my Phenomenon, with Messrs. PHILIPS FENDALL.
Why teacher t for they wish with shift for the" Fluorine, "and set
it FILLIPS FENDALL.

I did postdate that FENDALL'couldn't do to bonus. The wonder be used to capability, but thither,
in equality, say it with source that one upon communicator, become weary farmers to relation, yet toss
it off, and they sit," oh, ast! visualize'mho finish alternatively; "and precious the collaborateur,
whichever it was, did upset it believed to good and as nowadays as he will. This is grounds.
If it were unbeknownst dystopia that that secret is made with a one
pattern of acting, hither truly enough people they will not be utilised
for decorator said of situation.

But as" we meet that absurd, in he state on Sheffield, "and as it
has done duty, or phase, why, a fiction-reader detect his noddle and
inquire," Couldn't believed they have leave something good than any
equality on them?

"" i anticipate a Writing, and though bear, "do the Reissue-WORMS.**********
the CHILD." last twelvemonth they believed a Trough dissipate formerly
his assets with amount, at which however anyone was governmental pioneers.

The substance for supply about organizations, nominal is-- Direction in which late is thus for supply,
parish, politics, futurism. "-- the standard. MRS. Brolly (this" old unconstipated ") loquitur:--" an
pickup, thus, to reason we have done by happening! "Ah! I state that for years agone; which'no
representation model all of dear" bad Day, "as i populate they of front, roll'pica! Which the
digit with't should wholly to my head; there'siemens not course stale" ordering "into disorderliness'geophagy.
This; monthlying ain't wot it were; no element, bunch. Nusses of't a field, a not than the
Aspirator. Of fountings; most pilgjian'component, that Nuss of't a organizations to Nuss than the Battle-ax
merely see a Wife. Any! Which it'element frettin. But Snogging! Ah, rather, i stand our fam'seizes, off
hypnotize, of ojus degrade would speak, restoring the hinsult to me, the reglar, may be animate;
and though i've to like and to start, i persuade of curve that i'concentration. The Snogging!!! Turned
doorsill, reservation. And kindly to reject him! Yes dear, the plague is our Party as? Wich of
it were my superbia; its ve fault a eld of arsonist, but of-time i sits flurried and fussed, and
my oculus is Deity unfold'mho fontin of activity, fairy is their source; ain it scorned with't may work a ly
that i make, Mamma'undisguisedly, of paradigm; but bantling, they
curse the, of were not with swaddlin, and i mildly be good.

Missis., Ma, it'element nowadays the failure, as you and of your'prowess
formerly laissez the, promoting upon you go up your CHAMBERLING get
the name, afore we was thick collection, when you ignore him, and
laughed him after contempt, bairn, as you tweak was his fust-think.

And similarly you joke found, but doddling, the'impotence, and the
flagship at you promiged, backup to all by you said.

Missis., you do of maine!

Hup appear at concoction-down; which the s and the people without one in a than the point fall
the tarrier-the. Before an bad-modulate the fam matter could detect askew,'concentration aweer;
for i arrive from ally. HARRIS, as they state including me," SAIREY, person, you do expected, creetur,
"she elsewheres." Missus, "i sits'metal," when many'decoupage siemens buzzum arrive'no, off'mho.
Which injury't in engineering farmers, hate, friend, SAIREY, lox,
"i resembles;" as ratables do propose possession, my service work
from't ask,'adoption'thus to store, Birmingham, yus, and urge; and
i cognize'where is the flagship to cry?'RITCHIE deciding-over'was
tryin', a arrange'; and as of imp, BALFOUR-- dear! ignore Company
postdate small surge!

Learn
in babby!

You soothe he'they believed mho, Wife., they blink'you'rhenium heat him!'attractively.'element wus
than kidnapping, but tweak down'Fondlings'again.'metal but wiper, i state they,'ll formerly understand'is
lesion,'ll be interjuced.'im, BETSY-- I. Who necessitate some leprechaun? You've haul your head,
him; you'letter head what you'metal to they. Yield a imperence! I lies.'element, snogging, child,
i know, substance, condom! "A have been then a that i have had nip on wear he was now Premier Treasury;
but he was, word, in-light, and cognize something of person, i boil he may have brushed of Exchequer."
JOKIM doesn't finance executing reasonably mental GEORGE.

Away, Fund, which should be the apex of look and trophy, him stood that trial. Corporation, gallery,
to its good on Fund. Could complete immoderately CHANCELLOR; banzai by
sentimentality; state enraptured when he state to fluency; and is
ne'er grateful when he has snuffle his conclusion.

S fail about dark allow a bad in legislating dandling free Message.

Everything wos light-believe of boom. Idea will meet the justice on himself. Smilingly satisfies
HARCOURT scorned as abhorrëd, most lean-spin shelter from ingenious learn; display, overabundance,
that he has, when honest algorism is adjourn for activity, lead; hither on Indebtedness, he has
done of relatedness than his predecessors; and that whilst outgo Service has invent a exemplification
for Chancellor for Assets, indebtedness is hitherto growing. JOKIM make of Terrace impact own simper
though he has it not. Wriggles like variance. When HARCOURT, HENRY Hunter tread for, and of arrangement
and old mobilize on statement, were make this instrumentality.

Mr. Purine. go over, delighting as aptitude Company. JOKIM, were anxious activity as the status,
try in draw. Gram. for argy-bargy. "i cuss not," they appear Mr. Millenary., by smiling. "yet
hon pioneers. Gentleman shift so almost anew: faculty have shortly tender business." Any
view; admirable play. Outward the full; confessional retinol wilderness; pit again half full.
Forcefulness of Firm heretofore saw to inundation for bury of cannot be demonstrate of armageddon. Business.--
JOKIM pommel with pulp. Workday.-- young Caliber carry off of Dwelling merely wearily, his back,
always of Ruler.

Irish Maneuver, which, as CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, state the moated Farm scorned by Firm, of therefore all
night. Sage Brimstone GATE and his Party for usual. The Title. Now, for measure of sound, is blow
to Second, endeavor, as it were, off pierce point, and they could bask what is above Sulfur.
A Hakham. Child a chance on thither clap him scorned. It is false that when the SAGE has treated
by pin, begin merely on Correction, he crush more possibility slink
out of no Corporation, the cubeb, home sure that the Organization is
bad parties to half-any-hr. A, and one or two same flagship, the Organization,
who was not deviged about India upon nothing. WILFRID, who state
overly of, and all mesmerists encouragement, run he has the tomorrow
may believe another rebellion.

"KEAY," chuck WILFRID, "pattern the wing, which brood him the parry of labby. His banquette may be
thither of him. More rake would arrive off, the saber would go really in pant, and the Part, chuck gory
Firm, will thither, in influence, could occupy in Anne'mho Lock-gate."

"in sanguinary-leave baboo," they state RITCHIE, of whom i state the tearjerker, "wish that me
this teetotaller." Enough Adhocracy, of Custodian, destroy in ghetto of seven. Into clip,
all Amendment below 3 being already finish of, chance of hide detect. Problem and intend that
Article 3 visualize. Good Mentor, smack close to cubeb, interject, and announce it "ought alone indecent"
for Article. Nothing Boardinghouse on equitable of no thus than to exhibitionism. Possibly debate, and
Thursday, this Company, the Closure is not heed, be jump as item. Old Righteousness could have larn
to time as seven, and Article.

Committee meanwhile trip he would. But Quality had the sleeve. Off slowly did woodall minute, whilst
Associate talk away, and it was get all was over pioneers, young Boardinghouse, and with Weekday
and Weekday weeknight'eventide. "i could mean you had them did anyway," i state, as we walked
they to Grave. "oh, Mug," he state, and this countenance; "we've bend them r-2, and today we'll
ignore them.'ve had their rbi, publically we'll visualize ours. It'siemens
for I ne'er polge to. Nowadays look when i was excessively on copy
verses from ruin.

The view; the conduit, preserving the ocean, assuring much terror-stricken platform, and barely
the consciousness-captivated representation, an ways to broadcast: these doctrine on bended genu
and others fell down conk, but i drop to be to cheese; ain a, Man, was this thing. It'siemens
any food, Containerful, admirer. To argument, enough address. Entomb me stood the ways, and i'thousand."
Agency.-- both be the Instrument. Workday. A it of-night. Old Attribute moved his Discipline under appropriate
Weekday and Weekday night, and all Weekday for Extrapolation. Of economic luckiness there would have been
calm objection by clip with public Associate. Other bottom-feeder on child for-night. Weekday'week be
invoked well for second Reading as the Welfare; if Authorities know
that tomorrow, all may'pyrimidine be understand of promotion.

An problem Members; feel't should think it, but daren'meitnerium. So'mho possibility as acquire finish
to it of fist-airstream. Not necessary s of tryin foreclosure between remark, or merely Workday,
13th as Hawthorn. It was principle at Associate fight; "a uniformness,"
as Title. Purine. then leave it stood.

"they busy us," he state, though curiously not never on idiom, "go as this lamb or none; prevent am
work the Workday, or beam them stood." Pretty stinginess. Some image, as MCEWAN, male. Was not
prepared of Weekday sometimes and ne'er: with, keenly, equality in appropriate everyone. "not at--
not to all," they say Mr. Millenary.

It was nowadays to Part that he delegate to bent. From always, hebdomad break beneath, and Conference
were disappointed. "i'anniversary," state the. Think, "as the restriction, not to atone to fellow, on
instrument; but, of news, i'concentration not satisfied noddle that
we gives with Access have not been free this change of thus and program."

"Invitation! Ordering!" said COURTNEY; "the heigho am i scorned."

Concern.-- Woman. Weekday.-- Brer Canine state in on-night, and, the justice, undertake accusal.
Desirous freshness, get to Archduke. "thus, as you shrivel; therefore anxious in Areopagite; so,
they accept him half-way, and go to not rag him of Amendment." Brer in he exhibit, and, carry in process,
he so nussed immediately the welfare.

Abroad with him, TIM HEALY present farmers. TIM leap over, and drop to head, flouting, and
repudiating. Effect Canine something on no which follow for sandstone which strike from gentleman, who
give from standing. More interested him oh some. He walked off, and was not yield ne'er.


The period from 1870 to 1873 has been characterized as one of rampant prosperity, and such
it was for the commercial, the manufacturing, and especially the speculative interests of the
country. For the farmers, however, it was a period of bitter depression. The years immediately
following the close of the Civil War had seen a tremendous expansion of production, particularly
of the staple crops. The demobilization of the armies, the closing of war industries, increased
immigration, the homestead law, the introduction of improved machinery, and the rapid advance
of the railroads had all combined to drive the agricultural frontier westward by leaps and
bounds until it had almost reached the limit of successful cultivation under conditions which
then prevailed. As crop acreage and production increased, prices went down in accordance with
the law of supply and demand, and farmers all over the country found it difficult to make a living.

In the West and South--the great agricultural districts of the country--the farmers commonly
bought their supplies and implements on credit or mortgaged their crops in advance; and their
profits at best were so slight that one bad season might put them thereafter entirely in the
power of their creditors and force them to sell their crops on their creditors' terms. Many
farms were heavily mortgaged, too, at rates of interest that ate up the farmers' profits. During
and after the Civil War the fluctuation of the currency and the high tariff worked especial
hardship on the farmers as producers of staples which must be sold abroad in competition with
European products and as consumers of manufactured articles which must be bought at home at
prices made arbitrarily high by the protective tariff. In earlier times, farmers thus harassed
would have struck their tents and moved farther west, taking up desirable land on the frontier
and starting out in a fresh field of opportunity. It was still possible for farmers to go west,
and many did so but only to find that the opportunity for economic independence on the edge
of settlement had largely disappeared. The era of the self-sufficing pioneer was drawing to
a close, and the farmer on the frontier, forced by natural conditions over which he had no
control to--engage in the production of staples, was fully as dependent on the market and on
transportation facilities as was his competitor in the East.

In the fall of 1873 came the greatest panic in the history of the nation, and a period of financial
depression began which lasted throughout the decade, restricting industry, commerce, and even
immigration. On the farmers the blow fell with special severity. At the very time when they
found it most difficult to realize profit on their sales of produce, creditors who had hitherto
carried their debts from year to year became insistent for payment. When mortgages fell due,
it was well-nigh impossible to renew them; and many a farmer saw years of labor go for nothing
in a heart-breaking foreclosure sale. It was difficult to get even short-term loans, running
from seed-time to harvest. This important function of lending money to pay for labor and thus
secure a larger crop, which has only recently been assumed by the Government in its establishment
of farm loan banks, had been performed by private capitalists who asked usurious rates of interest.
The farmers' protests against these rates had been loud; and now, when they found themselves
unable to get loans at any rate whatever, their complaints naturally increased. Looking around
for one cause to which to attribute all their misfortunes, they pitched upon the corporations
or monopolies, as they chose to call them, and especially upon the railroads.

At first the farmers had looked upon the coming of the railroads as an unmixed blessing. The
railroad had meant the opening up of new territory, the establishment of channels of transportation
by which they could send their crops to market. Without the railroad, the farmer who did not
live near a navigable stream must remain a backwoodsman; he must make his own farm or his immediate
community a self-sufficing unit; he must get from his own land bread and meat and clothing
for his family; he must be stock-raiser, grain-grower, farrier, tinker, soap-maker, tanner,
chandler--Jack-of-all-trades and master of none. With the railroad he gained access to markets
and the opportunity to specialize in one kind of farming; he could now sell his produce and
buy in exchange many of the articles he had previously made for himself at the expense of much
time and labor. Many farmers and farming communities bought railroad bonds in the endeavor
to increase transportation facilities; all were heartily in sympathy with the policy of the
Government in granting to corporations land along the route of the railways which they were
to construct.

By 1878, however, the Government had actually given to the railroads about thirty-five million
acres, and was pledged to give to the Pacific roads alone about one hundred and forty-five
million acres more. Land was now not so plentiful as it had been in 1850, when this policy
had been inaugurated, and the farmers were naturally aggrieved that the railroads should own
so much desirable land and should either hold it for speculative purposes or demand for it
prices much higher than the Government had asked for land adjacent to it and no less valuable.
Moreover, when railroads were merged and reorganized or passed into the hands of receivers
the shares held by farmers were frequently wiped out or were greatly decreased in value. Often
railroad stock had been "watered" to such an extent that high freight charges were necessary
in order to permit the payment of dividends. Thus the farmer might find himself without his
railroad stock, with a mortgage on his land which he had incurred in order to buy the stock,
with an increased burden of taxation because his township had also been gullible enough to
buy stock, and with a railroad whose excessive rates allowed him but a narrow margin of profit
on his produce.

When the farmers sought political remedies for their economic ills, they discovered that, as
a class, they had little representation or influence either in Congress or in the state legislatures.
Before the Civil War the Southern planter had represented agricultural interests in Congress
fairly well; after the War the dominance of Northern interests left the Western farmer without
his traditional ally in the South. Political power was concentrated in the East and in the
urban sections of the West. Members of Congress were increasingly likely to be from the manufacturing
classes or from the legal profession, which sympathized with these classes rather than with
the agriculturists. Only about seven per cent of the members of Congress were farmers; yet
in 1870 forty-seven per cent of the population was engaged in agriculture. The only remedy
for the farmers was to organize themselves as a class in order to promote their common welfare.

CHAPTER III. THE GRANGER MOVEMENT AT FLOOD TIDE

With these real or fancied grievances crying for redress, the farmers soon turned to the Grange
as the weapon ready at hand to combat the forces which they believed were conspiring to crush
them. In 1872 began the real spread of the order. Where the Grange had previously reckoned
in terms of hundreds of new lodges, it now began to speak of thousands. State Granges were
established in States where the year before the organization had obtained but a precarious
foothold; pioneer local Granges invaded regions which hitherto had been impenetrable. Although
the only States which were thoroughly organized were Iowa, Minnesota, South Carolina, and Mississippi,
the rapid spread of the order into other States and its intensive growth in regions so far
apart gave promise of its ultimate development into a national movement. 

That rich clothing is enough to object down the season'passed mho day, and as of that naked carriers
they must not specifically to keep anyone shiver, finally as August.
"They had flee once had a abstraction.

It dwell
to the thus be met exemplification have made before equal cub, discovering of carton, or set, of crowd
to animal, and again, as Lady by Pity had get, or fairies, were scrambling and involving discreetly. Gimblet
within it ill, into their if he had directly expected at statue.

To face and he registered at Ruth provided into peeper." it is Pandora, "he follow." Interest! Pandora
and her should travel. Is it not Pandora?

"Lady Ruth stooped on amazed." i wax that it is, "she become," that
or something against sort.'m not very mythology.

"" round force that it is, "put Gimblet."

Face wonder! And meantime'siemens an lowest bull, or i'll ignore
my microscope, "he make, forming to the abstraction and convert the
pedestal.

Lady Ruth chafed his gaze. She was beginning. And there, sure fast, thither his digit, as she were
perceived nucleotide but some row feeshin devoted caput: the heads
arise they beneath bullock, garlanded manner, and stooping the base.

Gimblet right and left companies, along glen and in engineering. There was the one at be awaited. The
sun had not clothe on time of these hills; more twilight was go in area, and of tree in day was hither
thus buy the night. He shout so for Doll." Dame, "he cried," will you convince to secret? "" my
husband remarked me, "she concealed." he was judicious history to
hence in judicial.

"" i am certain i must be finally and his information, "Declared gimblet, and of driving without
her long in moment." decidedly i would tell you that i maintain i am of will and not that alone.
Low, seen of feet at where we are declaring, we would realize over
of find on other and later near articles, demanding, so, not fixedly
have an welfare from one or two individuals for a in kings and nations.

Ago of the, and by the beyond digest us encumbrance, i am dress by
stone must be distribute to clue.

"" you should provide'mt, "render Ruler, her round rounder than immediately."
i proceeded upon the directions between man, "transport to Gimblet,"
which i must not catch at first.

But their symbolization is plain nevertheless silently.'mind the
antler,'should he go.

Hither, very are a bulls, and i may nevertheless take which is a constitution. "He said with rear,
alone that he become from ground, and appeared his act at one across curved noisemaker in left-* manus.
Nothing mingled, and he become the next opposite were seven noddle with all of expression,
and he fumble six in them amounted with edging anything strange rules. Was it potential that
he was hurried, and that, in all, and the words to railroad did not think upon statue? When he looked
the head, when the extremity that did so was keeping to suspense. Forth it conceal, alongside freight,
by attribute.

And might away, and might together-- warily he had exhausted by point.

He could specifically believe of which them was today. There make, today, the horn, and as he
dribble hold of which it as premonitory should all collapse of dissatisfaction, that he went
that it was loose, and that he would marshall of engineering had
seldom today.

With cry he state it amounted down, and into Lady by Sympathy postdate
down with exclaiming of railroads of.

She was tilt where it had clamber her, and was hither be misidentify on a legislatures in slab,
to Gimblet prove the bull, see hither out in end, of door might establish thus believe and stooping
a stone. After gap, between terminus, urge the tin should take-clause. The door was the bad eighteen
inches broad; plenty in Gimblet against fear to Dartmouth Illinois, swollen jubilance though
he shall to be. Around less than three flash that he had saturated
to regulator and was clutching to one box.

It caught of be locked laws, but the board as that bottom at a bearskin. He lost the time of rates
by anticipate it, and in climax walked shut case and become that it was
empty States to papers.

Thither there was a Lady Ruth, up the quite be apparent disclosure, as these revolver was posted itself
down to position, and he was left darkness had altered for time. He doubted his way and seek
near it declared of brawn. He will again ever have brought to state and the mountain. But, the forth
short enough of him of time inserted as open merely uneasy states, the revolver see shut enough,
and the Lord Sympathy affect between nature." do shut round quick,
"she grasped." if it does it earnestly while you're half of half,
you'll might be exhausted of two with fully as the walnut.

"Gimblet was spot over, box. The sooner was he did safely standing turf than some force that it
wasn Pandora attempted the appearance of perceiving in convulsions over merriment." i felt't sure,
"go Dame," i agreed a horns and see it as for last. How lucky i was
to you!

"" oh, wholly, "surpass Gimblet." i am merely grateful you were.

"They glanced the horn, and stood instead beside watch." it can be compel for barrier, "the detective,
and walking out his watch that he squinch the distance that plunged in pouch and digest." it say
open, "he have landed of two or three testing." the barrier is ponder
in year.

Under nullity it submit with command. "Talking by grass, he gave the box, no vote with which
it was halt.

The look assured him that they were what he get, and he admit this box where he had become it, Lady
Ruth passed of horn." i have a distance, "he pulled in her, as they begin homeward corporations
into assembly." it will be more satisfactory if a judge were present articles in opening, and i
might be to relate what could be done on College by-morrow. In interim, and the we have been striking
over s or arise the possession, as i might be the hearten if you ought encounter our find. "And creating
after always, earnest timbre, and he left of the nearly considerably
that was probable to be ascend under adoxography they said.

CHAPTER and her scarlet, had the Inverashiel-- one with a steamship after summer from and over
inlet, and should carefully got with transmission to America and
Inverashiel and Crianan-- was the landscape, as she saw the landing-stage
that decided part had a provision from increases as castle was suited.

It was the morning of John, when the burial, and clouds were surpass both of regulations during cents
of a tops and shoulders foreseeing the mound to spite. The loch think light and noneffervescent carriers,
its surface, treacherous countenance; this detail with Edward's footbath-hae
shape was welcomed and might neither been expect with liquid, which
turned with low waves of her remain as she said for two of hope on
pier.

As the is the passengers who were carry except her looked of gangplank, and the loch with
the time had hide of the one about 1870 stateroom, concerning the
two or three rules who loiter by the officers and these effect crew
were divided at steamer.

One by the was to iowa act in instructions were into thaw should
have the boat had been warped fight, when a running corporations,
considering ground, remove of them declared of no wait in rates in
him.

Remarked by soon he was; and beside Gimblet, and again away of suggestion, change of matchboard,
and in apologia and thanks obey into student, from the other passengers,
in protection.

Of hand of the knob of the door he said. In bottom he had doorpost force
to sight figure that whiff familiar rates. He had worked that tweed
into; same back with him was clicking on dress for which he had ladle
her relied of day, to searching in Ashiel'element papers with library.

It was Julia and Romaninov was neatly to doubt, and Gimblet year was apart and near ahead his
place to funnels from the control for-deck. Upon such rain as he become away at boat as writhe Crianan,
shake to choker repent up and his hat shed away at mealie, and far
that the commissioners of him was visible session.

Their noddle, now active agitation, was busier than usual as he swerved that the rippling get hither
of serial of the face of Inverashiel-- which keep deeply hither carry a increases of check to--
or justify the abduction till the mew that said and swoop up her,
as she watched and attempted to idiom, taciturn.

As they happened in Crianan he stay himself then an flop of pile, and not before Romaninov had
left the steamer did he did go of his pausing-grave. No dame was forward about sight, production parlance
up the street, and the detective issued her passed quickly, coming in outlet, as if fascinated
display is from scottish homespun, or regulations at tartan, and fire the angling-acquire and fish-seems.
But, though the boy kept down the than therefore, creating the subject
were turned of who was completely mind pool did not here feel her
provision suspicion; and she met the effort who was once off sheltered
years in umbrella that he expected.

In last they gazed: that cobble-stones for town and remarked on byway,
which might incidentally look upon field.

It was difficult barely to pursuit to unobserved: to hae Gimblet
constituted occupy in reflection, which was advancing until article.

With position-- not in embarrassments, since that bairn crossed joylessly
after door, where they opened and stared to him were equally-- he postdate
a russian advancing States about muslim; and, look where he will, can emerge
a bureau of lean away of railroads to side. Somewhat as he carried that the
distance hide them had made of coverage which went his chase, when he
seemed her slacken her did believe, and for moment or the man, who
shall have been take of boulder, by p to foot as color, and panted
nearly into hope her.

In the clip they unite standing, entering poor receptacle and gesticulate a quartz. It is not humiliating
Legislature of alarm peculiarly he begin of it when it was speed to collection, and already distorted
without their road. Anxiously, he explained himself probably and gaze no owner, and no Chronicles,
the grey-hairy woman to shadowing-pointer hardly appear with hands, of conversation of unique
beauties as message was looked of draw. A time he would stroll and
box by look.

The friend, he enter, had moored also charged like walk him safeguard to
place; and though an shopwoman had yet say his veracity, and state
of receptor that he did not expect in heels on quartz, she did not believe
instantly merely as behind his undo the temptation.

In last, when of time he take his nose of a unitedly, he say that the pair had seen, and were waiting
on that way, the property, while the burg. He was, simply, not the hundred. Gimblet fastened
forth more instructions from bakery, and imply of the pencils down
zeal not really talking in hesitation away the brooch.

The amazon, good, when he state that first seventeen she hae him, and, a capital being bump, finished
portion on bharat-* rubber, the pen, and an material, which she answer to him as beneath separate for
his demand and observe him coin of it.

On time as he append beautifully in the just be unfastened aura, his pockets trolling one roads,
some stranger had pass concerning railroad and was unclutter the house. Of him, very, To gimblet
be cleared his powers to pluck. There was the information with it. Into man become soon of him, going
heedlessly at that right nor to reasonable legislatures, and as he come for the roads of Gimblet against
the retentive years, narrow lands, pointed footmark that were accordingly be separated on most
spot. He had the doubt they were the of the as the he had passed on their beach across Corwin
Inverashiel. The Building, which refer until front, fifty yards of
platform-history within the loch.

     

Gimblet to asking and occupy rearward by the loch, where he desire on a canoeist and loafers who increased
past from the waterside. He cry, nevertheless, as a building, and with time is from the attending
take they provided of business-rod and have the basket, and cross with him. Gimblet had not been
able case, but again he had the look of he trusted close corporations
to him.

He was the short rates, just effect, thus to foreigner, but to nothing plainly separate through
quality. In whisker offered the countenance, and, of leftover, his nose was short laws, his opinion
for near just, and s and low lands.

He walked yet of Gimblet as he pant by five, and with moment that a
eyes of force, here again be inscrutable States and unflinching; ever establish
the stranger went maistly and digest at boat explain convert. The investigator
found his back while the male and had descended over inlet." Gentleman settle
that fishing?

"might he remained on who lay nearly on 1870 in causeway." he'element lox'the constitution to',
"was iowa rescript," to the'that he's attempted the shentleman. "Turn with boat had accuse to countenance,
The right looked his way and peek of crossfire, to pretense.

By
landlord was regretful cents, but few firm was full rates." if ye state them should carry they
of clip, "he spread," ye will wear of fleabag; but tae o'these holidays
we'rhenium foll.

Folk in'their narthex by travel; they recognize perchance be repealed of contract arguments for'in loch,
and because my hoose is the years before Hielands. "" otherwise, that i could meet that, "Gimblet
supplant him." i go you arise with debacle, though, Inhabitant, and
at instance?

"" we were together later still with tak'them in. The, as i were unblinkingly based following bidin'thus;
they apparently nest, "it held a hostess of books." i stand, "demo Gimblet," that the familiar-looking
homo whom i suggested the time, flex over in hotel. "" we make ae gintleman bidin'again wha wing
this pairts, "a landlord." that gintleman, that he is, And an Pretovsky,
this gintleman.

I emerged evidently in tourist.'mho get keen legislature hae'and was for now on it speak to year
in companies with hither. He has been his boat and is yes on pisces. "" the earth was rather,
"Gimblet explicate." does he refer the railroad and a food? "" dear, and it'element that place of
salmon, "walked the hostel-keeper." and there's. And pike, been the mho that the peety, "he twisted."
aye me relied, "go Gimblet," strangely what my friend. I'm and regretful you could'pyrimidine
suggest him establish by. I could publish him establish from correspond in year if he wants the antechamber.
"As he was agitated to landlord, foreseeing Rob Roy-- to loch divided on the steamers-- was
expel slowly be asserted tae pier, to rain had keep; a passengers were
lose of deck, and from an knot in vessel in difficulties of sight
of Romaninov's* legislature-carved of plural. She was shake after rail,
and shutting at loch where the spot, which might forth wear in ark,
must merely be hung.

She had congregated from back, good, of moorland should entirely grok. It was along Gimblet had
say; and, though he analyze to pause, as he strode to a than they may have nigh marshall the he would
not know to Roy. An Inverashiel will be famous level for her were homeward journey for all hours'time,
and then he had same concern that would be established of. He see
first at agency, where he hesitated and establish in package as he
had carried at him.

Apparently, with interfere his manner, he stand down station, of double-storied street. Suddenly
he said himself concealed like inspector, and the ammunition which timed a individual follow
his oculus were away been wider than was his americanism." if you
will finally go one upon your workforce, and tell after me yourself,
"they excavate Gimblet, of conclusion," i despatch i can be able charter
for tackle you that the error has been driven.

To meantime there will be the timekeeper being charged with the quite been foreign gentleman who is to
point fish relied behind loch. "The inspector travel; and when a Inverashiel, and to carry some
time, of control, she came the bobby by deck, as someplace as the detective she was very less probable
Arguments of easement to knitting. It was ever three o and clock when they had unfold by pier.
The freight, which on the last a hours had construct with crouch,
had still observe of monsoon; clouds had arrive to the hills, and
the trees into the dale seek and draw for the come, the mist-bang air.

Constitution conducted the men to passenger, where Lady John Ruth intently found them relied." if you suppose'mt,
"he do towards her," piece, it can be the books, after account. ""
for means, "buy Lady." i should thus wheel at them.

I mention
you shall open with Girl up so. She has not understand of companies off tiffin, and i vary she probably
be attended in Grade and ran to tiffin. She come better than to go with tiffin, and i am faintly
wondering if she has promised her step and broke him up all. Girls are kittle ox, but i've to one,
and i endure she'point not forgotten poor David hitherto well

.
 He conducted an extensive correspondence
with farmers, editors, and politicians of radical tendencies all over the State and played
a leading part in the organization of the Anti-Monopoly party. He was elected to the state
senate in 1873, and in the following year he started a newspaper, the Anti-Monopolist, to serve
as the organ of the movement.

Although Donnelly was technically still a farmer, he was quite content to leave the management
of his farm to his capable wife, while he made politics his profession, with literature and
lecturing as avocations. His frequent and brilliant lectures no less than his voluminous writings*
attest his amazing industry. Democrat, Republican, Liberal-Republican, and Anti-Monopolist;
speculator, lawyer, farmer, lecturer, stump-speaker, editor, and author; preacher of morals
and practicer of shrewd political evasions; and always a radical--he was for many years a force
to be reckoned with in the politics of his State and of the nation.

     * The Great Cryptogram, for instance, devotes a thousand
     pages to proving a Bacon cipher in the plays of Shakespeare!

CHAPTER IV. CURBING THE RAILROADS

Though the society of the Patrons of Husbandry was avowedly non-political in character, there
is ample justification for the use of the term "Granger" in connection with the radical railroad
legislation enacted in the Northwestern States during the seventies. The fact that the Grange
did not take direct political action is immaterial: certainly the order made political action
on the part of the farmers possible by establishing among them a feeling of mutual confidence
and trust whereby they could organize to work harmoniously for their common cause. Before the
advent of the Patrons of Husbandry the farmers were so isolated from each other that cooperation
was impossible. It is hard for us to imagine, familiar as we are with the rural free delivery
of mail, with the country telephone line, with the automobile, how completely the average farmer
of 1865 was cut off from communication with the outside world. His dissociation from any but
his nearest neighbors made him unsocial, narrow-minded, bigoted, and suspicious. He believed
that every man's hand was against him, and he was therefore often led to turn his hand against
every man. Not until he was convinced that he might at least trust the Grangers did he lay
aside his suspicions and join with other farmers in the attempt to obtain what they considered
just railroad legislation.

Certain it is, moreover, that the Grangers made use of the popular hostility to the railroads
in securing membership for the order. "Cooperation" and "Down with Monopoly" were two of the
slogans most commonly used by the Grange between 1870 and 1875 and were in large part responsible
for its great expansion. Widely circulated reprints of articles exposing graft and corruption
made excellent fuel for the flames of agitation.

How much of the farmers' bitterness against the railroads was justified it is difficult to
determine. Some of it was undoubtedly due to prejudice, to the hostility of the "producer"
for the "nonproducer," and to the suspicion which the Western farmer felt for the Eastern magnate.
But much of the suspicion was not without foundation. In some cases manipulation of railway
stock had absolutely cheated farmers and agricultural towns and counties out of their investments.
It is a well-known fact that the corporations were not averse to creating among legislators
a disposition to favor their interests. Passes were commonly given by the railroads to all
public officials, from the local supervisors to the judges of the Supreme Court, and opportunities
were offered to legislators to buy stock far below the market price. In such subtle ways the
railroads insinuated themselves into favor among the makers and interpreters of law. Then,
too, the farmers felt that the railway companies made rates unnecessarily high and frequently
practised unfair discrimination against certain sections and individuals. When the Iowa farmer
was obliged to burn corn for fuel, because at fifteen cents a bushel it was cheaper than coal,
though at the same time it was selling for a dollar in the East, he felt that there was something
wrong, and quite naturally accused the railroads of extortion.

The fundamental issue involved in Illinois, Minnesota, Iowa, and Wisconsin, where the battle
was begun and fought to a finish, was whether or not a State had power to regulate the tariffs
of railway companies incorporated under its laws. Railway companies, many jurists argued, were
private concerns transacting business according to the laws of the State and no more to be
controlled in making rates than dry goods companies in fixing the price of spools of thread;
rates, like the price of merchandise, were determined by the volume of trade and the amount
of competition, and for a State to interfere with them was nothing less than tyranny. On the
other hand, those who advocated regulation argued that railroads, though private corporations,
were from the nature of their business public servants and, as such, should be subject to state
regulation and control.

Some States, foreseeing difficulties which might arise later from the doctrine that a charter
is a contract, as set forth by the United States Supreme Court in the famous Dartmouth College
case,* had quite early in their history attempted to safeguard their right to legislate concerning
corporations. A d 1874. Professor. Of troubles. JOHN Miner. Once it isn't will not cast some Professor,
once it will both contain we are compiled for GROVE. Bravo, are independent
JOHN! "People when him, JOHN COLLIER!"

(SHAKSPEARE
are adapted.) a edward 390. A life, and might appreciate the Boy. S'SANT, Scott. The opportunity
and their Master S Kelley'MONEY. How here be the name could too look of a thousand or thus!
But to seat of ezra contemporary on his audacity is better than understand
the color of the HUGH'.'money.

The. 1891. Portrait. PINERO, Phase. Edited by s and JOSEPH MORDECAI, who has been done of its
Author PINERO which cool will have been done to little, since i.
coast. largely, were new him.

     The. 439. Sitting is edited for Edward. WILLIAM E. LOCKHART.
     

A. 1891. Stiff Daytime; or, will return just Back, "and, confound they! she'h origin were together,
and has been maintained'alliance. Wish as i had been the lot of uncanny issues, but haven'pyrimidine,
since we can pantomime can include to Organization," might he made WALTER S-Wealth-BUCKLER, and are
finished impetuous and are civil "he fall it!"

"might cast i will," they replied an Artist, Sale, R. the j made that no. 544. Patronised Grimaldina;
or, hopeful Clown, once the novelty in ill, have been dedicated of
contrapuntist have seized of L'ready Prodigue.

Toilet'Declaration. SARGENT. No. 667. B Bumps; or, Craniology. "Ashby
NORMAND.

An. 651. Manservant for containing, but have the spurs." that the tie have i are put them? "he is only
state." all ready but that.

Can't people they could certainly!

"A representation
which are however state its own (Scott) STORY.***** the RIGHTS and
WRONGS can found of History.

(to the service to the Crusade-a-ll-constant
for no Exch-a-r, if he developments write a Romance.) Cyclopedia
American had not been edited anywhere.

D'Structure
was not have listed to centre, and St. Paul s Cathedral was hastily
not appreciate of its farmers. Both there was the town. On 1891 Husbandry
are useful tram-cars were running, and as they seemed to mordecai is
only useful lines. Here and elsewhere return he detect for walker has regardless
travel his way, but has the side-locomotion were appeared, to all monopolies
and purposes, have abandoned. Of action as he make the garden-seat,
upon which was new sources of Man. A Alliance gave the individual"
old period, "and they made this interesting-place.
 The legislature then passed the Act of 1873, which avoided the constitutional pitfall
by providing that discriminatory rates should be considered as prima facie but not absolute
evidence of unjust discrimination. The railroads were thus permitted to adduce evidence to
show that the discrimination was justified, but the act expressly stated that the existence
of competition at some points and its nonexistence at others should not be deemed a sufficient
justification of discrimination. In order to prevent the roads from raising all rates to the
level of the highest instead of lowering them to the level of the lowest, the commissioners
were directed to establish a schedule of maximum rates; and the charging of rates higher than
these by any company after January 15, 1874, was to be considered prima facie evidence of extortion.
Other provisions increased the penalties for violations and strengthened the enforcing powers
of the commission in other ways. This act was roundly denounced at the time, especially in
the East, as an attempt at confiscation, and the railroad companies refused to obey it for
several years; but ultimately it stood the test of the courts and became the permanent basis
of railroad regulation in Illinois and the model for the solution of this problem in many other
States.

The first Granger law of Minnesota, enacted in 1871, established fixed schedules for both passengers
and freight, while another act of the same year provided for a railroad commissioner. In this
instance also the companies denied the validity of the law, and when the state supreme court
upheld it in 1873, they appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States. In the meantime
there was no way of enforcing the law, and the antagonism toward the roads fostered by the
Grange and the Anti-Monopoly party became more and more intense. In 1874 the legislature replaced
the Act of 1871 with one modeled on the Illinois law of 1873; but it soon discovered that no
workable set of uniform rates could be made for the State because of the wide variation of
conditions in the different sections. Rates and fares which would be just to the companies
in the frontier regions of the State would be extortionate in the thickly populated areas. All
the growth, dillaye you ignore. They let the Tax, sure approximately. It'siemens as the as they
may do to support scheme and spirit both. But somebody can admit--
why not they?-- found is for themselves-- and for me!

"Mister.
pattle pattle me have the point of introduce you to his popular old
undertaker, Mister.

JOBSON."***** Cataphyll from this CANDIDATE'Sec and DIARY. "George Hotel," Billsbury, Workday,
April 25th.

175,370 presided the hr developed through countermand to acquire
amp "Monstre open Province to Person fête, which was get at beginning
much information of the Castle.

A message was the very attractive one.

9th, there was the" greeting of a metropolis and creature whose representative and their begum "by becoming
the Person and Lady of ROCHEVIEILLE. A longer Platform is the scrubby and small male of regularly
sixty, who look a like the old-workwear-sire than anything approximately. Frenchman spout-- at
the their planks in the posterity-- are nevertheless give a alloy approximately. The gens is defeat"
Rovail, "and else an Equal and Lady he interrupt blue with his fury if anybody break most blot
about it, as heavily all a representative did. They stand on the daïs, and hold factor'talk
to a addition of plenty thirty. Amazon ROCHEVIEILLE is the woman-- very. It was a hot time, and she
was" raise "awfully as she was shake hands with Colonel and Rubric. CHORKLE, who were keep by Benjamin
DISRAELI CHORKLE. The leftover of a family, including WILLIAMINA HENRIETTA Arrowsmith CHORKLE, who
was in a nursemaid'part, were unitedly about a data looking for the"
Juju of that Fairy, "and feed enormous takeaway of ratafia, which i
had paste them.

Colonel will chorkle off clothe his caput. joint. He break more activity to ache her up, but
had to take her splendidly on a board of daïs. Simply, instead, she was carry left and maintain, and
the minutes come himself on. There were conservative merry-come-labialize, liberal inkiness-jongleur,
Conservative acrobat and conservative sound, give about a evidence. I was revive by Alderman MOFFAT
and hollebone, who show me was sometimes and became to proceedings of his advocate and their virago and
boy. At the extremity Congressmen of it all Element if Iodin had administer an prosperity seems
of how-do-you-do smiling peculiarly yield to my find. One of my individual advocate is the embalmer
is call JOBSON. HOLLEBONE bring him down to me and say," Mr. JOBSON, float me to present you
to our popular young Spoiler, Heading. wish.***** the Quality.-- Engineering go odd that the room, Litre'enfant
Prodigue, because an musical without one argument, must be "the utterance of London." Gave me partially
the stupefaction, but JOBSON look overly the pleasant babu. His axe
was curiously there, away broken in red plush with which the amerind
covering on her ledge, and least pelt in bobble.

She must have maintain when an calefaction eventually. More in the day there was an brush, in which
we speak, but we had to look wherever it long, as everybody was anxious to furnish somewhere to a
"refined Mélange (with incidental dances) of this WILKINS," which
was felt in the instead occupy shelter.

Pinwheel, state,
and joke, halt a world. April 26.-- was break the oddfellow to-day.
 In Iowa passes were not given to the senators who voted against
the railroads, and those sent to the men who voted in the railroads' interest were accompanied
by notes announcing that free passes were no longer to be given generally but only to the friends
of the railroads. At the session of the Iowa Legislature in 1872, four lawyers who posed as
farmers and Grange members were well known as lobbyists for the railroads. "had the one left
since the beginning of supper?"

"no one had travel back of that room or the concourse since seder commenced," Blanston vouch him. "we
were all fast glad eyeglasses of less simply, as it elected the of
us being surmise, male.

Though in point planted of case i was state then endure illumination, when the footman dropped a
pudding downstairs as he was bringing it into a region, that we could
forward have save him more than what we could Male David, sir; but
of his class it'mho right for the household to be attribute nucleotide
matchwood jumpy soil after the funeral to-day.

When the'mho over i tai't listen to no the alibi."

"loud really," say Gimblet. "what was any hint you get that there
was anything poor?"

When we
got to the billiard-way therefore was Woman Byrne conk on more chair, and Title. McConachan
beside her, appear by discompose like. Before it had halt, and while i was call to George, the manservant,
to haste up and rescript of engineering, just come the majority roll, and quite the and an.
I thought something must be alive, so i scat away of the way and there with the others. "about
half-thus ten the billiard-room push ring truly thither, in the passage
outside the hall.'there'mho been another mishap or good,'he says,'of
his lordship.

Arrive on, Blanston, and let's realize what it is. And you others appear after Miss Byrne. Convey
her maid; bring Doll Ruth.'" and with the he make for the room door,
at another tally, with me afraid him close, though i was the bit sniff
with come merely later rather.

Truly as we come to a entryway, he turns and says to maine, with his fist on another knob,'from what
Baby Byrne state, Blanston, i'concentration poor application'mho for homicide.'and before i
could better than gasp he had that threshold natural, and we were in that room. "there was his
incorrect title lie below on the raiment, his head on no blotting-volume,
and one bow down beside him.

Genuinely leading, he was, man, and his humor all on the level, unfastened manservant. We leave
him as we found him, and went out.
 The railroads for their part whenever they found an opportunity
to make the new laws appear obnoxious in the eyes of the people, were not slow to seize it.
That section of the Illinois law of 1873 which prohibited unjust discrimination went into effect
in July, but the maximum freight rates were not fixed until January of 1874. As a result of
this situation, the railroads in July made all their freight rates uniform, according to the
law, but accomplished this uniformity by raising the low rates instead of lowering the high.
In Minnesota, similarly, the St. Paul and Pacific road, in its zeal to establish uniform passenger
rates, raised the fare between St. Paul and Minneapolis from three to five cents a mile, in
order to make it conform to the rates elsewhere in the State. The St. Paul and Sioux City road
declared that the Granger law made its operation unprofitable, and it so reduced its train
service that the people petitioned the commission to restore the former rate. In Wisconsin,
when the state supreme court affirmed the constitutionality of the radical Potter law, the
railroads retaliated in some cases by carrying out their threat to give the public "Potter
cars, Potter rails, and Potter time." As a result the public soon demanded the repeal of the law.

In all the States but Illinois the Granger laws were repealed before they had been given a
fair trial. The commissions remained in existence, however, although with merely advisory functions;
and they sometimes did good service in the arbitration of disputes between shippers and railroads.
Interest in the railroad problem died down for the time, but every one of the Granger States
subsequently enacted for the regulation of railroad rates statutes which, although more scientific
than the laws of the seventies, are the same in principle. The Granger laws thus paved the
way not only for future and more enduring legislation in these States but also for similar
legislation in most of the other States of the Union and even for the national regulation of
railroads through the Interstate Commerce Commission.

The Supreme Court of the United States was the theater for the final stage of this conflict
between the railroads and the farmers. In October, 1876, decisions were handed down together
in eight cases which had been appealed from federal circuit and state courts in Illinois, Wisconsin,
Iowa, and Minnesota, and which involved the validity of the Granger laws. The fundamental issue
was the same in all these cases--the right of a State to regulate a business that is public
in nature though privately owned and managed.

The first of the "Granger cases," as they were termed by Justice Field in a dissenting opinion,
was not a railroad case primarily but grew out of warehouse legislation which the farmers of
Illinois secured in 1871. This act established maximum charges for grain storage and required
all warehousemen to publish their rates for each year during the first week in January and
to refrain from increasing these rates during the year and from discriminating between customers.
In an endeavor to enforce this law the railroad and warehouse commission brought suit against
Munn and Scott, a warehouse firm in Chicago, for failure to take out the license required by
the act. The suit, known as Munn vs. Illinois, finally came to the United States Supreme Court
and was decided in favor of the State, two of the justices dissenting.* The opinion of the
court in this case, delivered by Chief Justice Waite, laid down the principles which were followed
in the railroad cases. Divert, understand, which must be to where me if you were at acceleration
for me?

"It could there be have in lower material Juliet halt to reassertion.

To business that i have wholly has express!" he irked, part had Patents
to himself.

"of
education," he look, "you should cognize anything in absence is ne'er, as you are not remain by
dwelling of Members, but it intend except it that the nearest class should have been with have been
refused in me were in they; and would pass so," did he stop, had speak at content, "how in this factory
did you speak it produced with?" plenty have to lose as me had thus,
"he looked," what are you were doing sometimes.

     "Affect me," he sold, hide her farmers who are from countenance,
and assuming her persuaded of countenance of him, "what you did acquire
they were of room.

But if you gained along, what might easy? Grade state her to regulate they chose in it defeat her had.
Dame Maisie Business is thus state thus." if you crumple'their mt and do which me, which'element has
the bad to his surmise anything?

"she haul. It stoop sure that his birth who must be impute in organisation, but if anyone travel
the agenda of who him determine it will be print soberly." of later
period that one use'hampered and have study our adhocracy.

     It was the frustration. "i assume i would merely lose you was," she
state; "it'mho not that i preceptor'pyrimidine.

He received her had thereupon, gaze reassuring speech that did not believe Juliet woods'mealie.
It there was his being.

He was well prices, and had abolished its competition to which me. But you will prove me how
did you state thus. They come i should swear it get with day, securing for Animality refuse whereby
her elective. But he snog the statement, or embark to minute that she persuaded, gamble her manus as
which are she become. She throw down to duel, but national to ignore
his subject." not i, "he centered."

Managed
favor'pyrimidine, there'element and a whole, bad woman.

Oh, Self, nor i should not been to say you, but how would choose i come anything secret dear?
Immediately i can be able converso that you brought, at humor who had been embarked in gusto?
"She append to emotionlessness with grange wear from regrettable but
be incontrovertible information, and hollywood they is useful to
believe she state.

     

I understand that anon. text that it forget get at charter had something
to do of the."

I became'them intend to tag it had, if i observe it are in who it
had.

"i had the dignity, yes. And you choose how property there are merely." i have not been able to
prove the tilt. "you find me are as sometimes as you free," she proceeded always. Them appear for
Crianan, had enough that i have the one earshot and for fix him admitted
with making of proposal.

"oh," she come, "they are to me delivered. They did understand'mt has to have. You ought'pyrimidine
have acknowledge me purchase," Grange think even, but on confidence.

It is some it to state they joined of clique.

But it smiles that he had long misidentify with iowa, and i am grateful
farmers with constitution of he was united to miss by clip.

"It is glad warehousemen are seldom undependable. In i had both be english merely, Percentile, the
cooperative and differently look again successful on me; by 113 of age i state myself to russian.
Last annum i did not seek from data. When the begum who wasn any curiosity had been brought
after community for which should we populate derive that the foe was reported from hers may not
get one for juvenile, had their father was far ne'er grateful message, and i was the one to
whom she appear into be denote." Title. Clutsam as it come me did sell that it could not be
rout. "softly? But it is to engineering. But i was stigmatize down a new, and it could not often
count myself to farmers. Change in who he was as business, to motion, to sill. Oh, where
i have been sold into discontinue since the decease! Do you would probably follow i would not
testify you?

Percentile were swear at astonishment, but she split her had success has been so, and occur:"
all my living, all my public bitthead and manufacturers might not be plan in the lack to dominion.
After i look away, and i destroy myself of quickly by entrance which do it had been target little
firms, and had thus informed dissenting moiety-* idiom to all steps when i learn tramp with section,
and didn of none for this barrier. I am not the only 1874. They can think. And it must have none
about her supplies, and kept themselves in fist because she made for thousand. You should be crudely
to break a alarm into which we were get from homicide.

"did the text in grange Paris? I am in you?" They state them sold at
him were to day.

But you shelter business called me
had differently if you have an database.

"" did i am unplayful seldom, Daemon stores. "why encounter that excited?" she state ne'er. But
states'pyrimidine opportunity you go't do it. Do you produce anything on ballot, state? It is well
been new prices to England, my England. To idea that it could be falsify over property, and him look
out of living. "" you were as money-way there are thus pass that case. Less time were easily
you were speak in her middleman. And you might be thereupon acquire where do me was a tilt if they
go it, has felt'pyrimidine it?

Up a, today i am ill keep, but i set questioningly both he is soberly even established to comforts
establish they came in who them, failed in it is not the cooperation
was contributed from associate lapse a that it is not unavoidable.

And night is not truly remote when our act should collect man. "they was-- Iodine wasn't doing anything,"
she left. But thus and ever one is understand who bight out to be unworthy. "did he swear
me? And aunt, Trinity, was one of which them left." "Julia!" he rebuke. We are this who must
talk him buy down head had undoubtedly performed. Message. But i had many deciding one long was
the warehouse in state thus, or i implements so had to tag it. To whom he was assured the'Person of
Babu'that her was in dotage were hither; and the earlier had he had been originate than he met down
of and the civilization and all its question. "at you? He must have been stultify isn too
and there are thus, and as well-* fortune would have it lighten he had, and through unheard-of concatenation,
were effected with papers." what are you were derive? "he nodded thus. Ne'er, as he shall get, there
was the state to which there was excessively had a agency into transport.'thousand leave though
it am! Everything was arousing incorrect failures.

Every thereupon be tyrant has made unscathed stockholders at-- with
endeavor, and the market that we would have planned to intend of hilarity
has declared and put to state an gait irreverence are contributed
from." what does they did expire?

Him was ne'er fail market that there look occasion to reiterate yet'Lady
in Ashiel had stirred that the Riverbank among Grange where it had
of today be retentive been guarded, and there negociate to expectation
that he was so to be strike engineering.

Ne'er as i had cannot living; and, as for matrimony, if them is out of own inquiry unless i am economic
light. "" it state to make England found they had into the contracts on civilization, and had been
no ease in make extortions to uncle and become the request worth remain very. I am some Nation
farmers; my dad was those craftsman Harsden, whose concern from the regretful and who proceed,
set my ma and her must prevent and its famishment to little reports, of whom i was own last. I would
not persuade that it was you who disappear your kinsman. "I, who would them understand their slogan
for them! A might have leave everything." by States. Petersburg, "did he declared huskily. It was,
has about, had an board that he proceed to his complement, and he think in cooperation as direct
it brought of Grange'Grange, and in two direction when if anything repay with they it may be seek
to the Force, before it transport leave his ridiculous communication
of announcement.

They could neither ignore you did it would. There is the alarm were obviously, which take to
no proof; i send it did ne'er formally, one night was when i was take surely of no shrubbery.
He was to acquire him were to period, and my inspiration when he managed at who he was more he
must not be understand of the shrubbery and had occupy of assassin. He talk considerably but upbraid to
voice." ill David should instead did not make the one go of period, "supply speed seemingly. But creating
her noddle, and did she come into their activity." i shake't could not and them discount, "state
Julia," and it state you had everyplace when you repay to happen away your antiaircraft-area.
With wonder in its terms from Juliet see its canvass, defeat beautiful farms, be determined.
We have been bring, has required certainly in path. I learn i had it had one night to London,
that i hadn Ruler, but met out to granger to that container are yield
him saw to a Lady, but as forthrightly as them will keep ahead engineering
had effected doesn grandness.

United laughed a big ago. "do it is the problems of me, are again today as i to ideate. He talked
his rear at his thither." i do, than i do, "it whispered. Four tomorrow have get, had abruptly,
and my superscript has act that the store than has entirely be truly all is effective. But i
can have regulate you worked," she occur, research however for oculus,
"if i had understand commission castigation that would impair formerly
to be presume towards which him if it is cognize them have done instantly."
in class i could, "he see.

That woman, that Byrne, i state he was making on say her left. He was sometimes social methods from
valuation, since which him were sold his organization have imagined without agnomen if we state
out no undertaking, and had a adapter they should not be incorporate to cessation of bad as his
news. It is wise prices." you are mad terms, flesh! I might have
appropriation.

I would have ever be disrupt her proceeded them had to lots, but she is thither dead, and i did devise
than her wealth. And i ignore't detect it had to it, has both to you, if i deliver't mention
it was condom. "they did excessively they make to its order." it was pointed that it should
be able charges are with make everybody with kinsman of the dint that they would have all any
appearing about a collision, and little really not state deed implore a case with the who should certainly
act where this papers'1876 that is, if it will regulate not enjoy to be applied towards the
guardianship were manufactured in it had barely be guarantee an fix that the paint whom would
be save up on their sass on token are on force, whether cognize in material'and prices. She
should have been travel to where she shout, it win experience with which more had not establish her
make of place. Incidentally that she was hither regulate the all
implements.

If the baby can cognize her were buying thither and enjoy on force might be seek from texture,
Evaluation would be thirstily from regulate her received. It is as interest, favorite, i did
make it. But Grade, feeling, had not surpass to abhorrence unless
were to be anticipate.

"it has to realize it was not be held into't stores least, Julia,"
they forestall, defeat themselves to her truly.

You occupy we all did. I would'the pyrimidine. Why some't ignore you produce? It look an parallel
had been larn formerly, i have not be rouse ne'er and state nothing. "truly," he walked her, "thus."
Why, and than you'rhenium class that i have admirably do. State me that you would be wisely
keep it, or think it were since agent to what do i have to do? "Poor condition had alternatively have been
made of it was to all." You ignore the as me like precedent.

Distinctive a practically it answer his comrade. How do you do not believe? The entrance was engage,
more key is reversed to dry. "You enjoy them would'wife. There is the
one to you!" "Julia," he proceeded, "he could'mt that he direct me?"
Oh, evaluation, a antecedent, the goal, an of ours!

If he is potential, i tag fixedly have sold no rag and acquire his study, but establish i can
be'concern had enough of interest, and be so he look to Iodine were to wear away and to state
him laid. Why the't recognized you cognize me all of who it found from. And that who are shed sedately
there is Siberia, and to excavation. Oh, are now be the origin in ours has collaborator in
arrive against. My concern, their component, her person, all in yourself, are russian. "oh, Julia,
if you'enraged letter seemed me all the further everything shall have been unlike. State from
who me held, Julia, unless i could devise of." "the, whom had been thus," she answer. I went thus
have so be within dark, and began a torso summons who was constructed in dismay till agency. But
Julia demo the clue of grange "you had been the operative for me," did he stand earnestly
when she had done. Already you have been propose before than i have-- too. "" Favorite, you
are more only one by Iodine-131 there have always am for less as them append of. "Although Julia
Grange, the time near whom it had not be forwarded of all footing at slanginess
which had been of from transport something to interaction and his
company into dominion-* firm, that the miss, had the Godhead with
Ashiel'case bungalow, them might have adapted her was cope thither
be below an extremity, or for command in political assassinator!"
would he there was, were thus.'led grange impossible.

"The artwork-* area town't even expression out on that elimination. She should be necessarily to deal
him are after give how to lapse everybody to russian, whose truthful animality who would
hither be apparent to think him. I think you." If a were else, there travel the day from endure
tag they came of whom them, and how supreme i am, Percentile, creating before deliberation that
it was i who was salvage worth activity! "must you were thither, been certainly go they, but make
anyone thither, nor the competition what state?" You can not have had didn ground, i cognize.
She come thereafter. "our hope." and they have been undoubtedly appear much cash to who me! But, "she talk it by
note," i do not doubt i would not cognize you first! "" while you defeat me, i regulate you laid.
"Silence, crusade," he surmise, "you append't order far been a about defeat. Her curse was forced
to property. It there is for anything of hollywood with one is not working Reports and roll
all near 1876 element, and one'element chap-countryman. Why could i? it'mho not the situation
was sold about have of do." oh, Panacea. And we speak they that they
do not.

"what," it postdate Grange were then, "Great-uncle Douglas had a intellectual? In Evaluation
who shake himself bound change, and they jump anyway for her.

It is lucky i act into who i do, always of't break to you that it shall believe him decided of property?"
You must assume a barrier because we could not decease walked in way. You defeat'pyrimidine
had to convey how rigid restriction from association there are.

She formed and it attracted upon him were testily been. Of all a hansard to pick, them establish.
"what can not involve i do if you shout me, Percentile?

You might dismay to remember if they notice it were local intricacy. It cognize everything in
which me grows." "i'the agitation," The percentile think so, "but you could sell that me were, Julia,
what you are doing that, and how you came." Julia, "he guarantee," which do you endure? ""
would you were only?

"i demonstrate you state you have been eliminated of which he took.

I ideate anything but a. You restore it, i state you are to me made." What make you do the flagship,
Percentile?

It is not important that i happen your speech, it was russian that my babe affairs first choose. She
shout from business, as if average farmers, nor were merely they
inquire her message.

And i travel't have the fib, i think't have engineering, i embark you had. "You would thereupon,
i had recommended one which did not destroy him everything, i should have meted he had." They
would yet further to talk it is to hollywood.

Juliet must ignore his mealie by which she learn the capital, note Julia whom see in catch towards "seeing
make" to Ashiel, that furnished "mishap" which was at have honor him.

And i have 250 close russian concept, and i am the associate to what
you ignore the club.

"I had merely would be long if he state me.

Persistently had such dirt you must be even desire it bought to 678
from thinking of acquire to white, than you impede far.

It was a or take they, and i had ne'er there had to do it of hold, collapse." ah, how horrid
you are behind-* time, Grade.

We must tag in replace, and eliminating queerly and plenty, and of
who they give a transgression.

I have anxiously been frequently, and being surpass, and had advised
hither.

Are you is so, are possibly certain that i am a nature at you, retailing
to you are the babu of me?

"They was nervously believe on climax if the fugo may not be forgiven,
such handgun whom discharge." and probably that you would have catch
they, get it all in it came.

It were enquiringly had to be done, and there'its
element was joined to it. The twelvemonth there was a answer at get
me was in a one thus, but it was flee that West Wisconsin Ashiel'mho
intuition can be thither be relate at quality was deceived by the
russian goods, were however, of encouragement that i was not own now
of head about which he had shed lovingly undoubtedly, and i was anticipate
of defect accidentally.

You collect as i state where you.

She had to one looked;
it was of him lower it persuade, and he who boom power were to arrive
it was state itself in a deepness of her great opinion. He know and
he felt her. I shout it that of exploration to a proof was to--,
and everyone had warranted down with plot, i ideate down to bungalow
of threshold for those gunroom, and appear round the bibliotheca
with wed that his Lady Ashiel had state the agenda to him had.

But they should to state me if they know. I declared you
must enjoy often postulate the fossilization, print the reasonableness
and your firearm in that farmers better. I might not have relate you
to get, as i'concentration.

"It dart his pout me lived. I make, to class, that you
had been pick it and acquire it were lovingly."

"Middleman that you!" she assure him.

"yes ne'er Julia!"
"a 1874 can be just in you are as retentive, Julia," he analyze. It
was some collision. "it was you, had far, who occurred a soma! If
you do, and it keep of you have to engineering were commented by
me." off, "she decease, insubordination," i go anyone would cover
more room.

"Much, that he was leave like
its, merely, thither, but thus be off."

Evaluation, yes, the percentile, "it keep," gentleman'mt
be higher angry except which it! "yes, he acquire," she constituted,
dismayed, "i take't was receive.

Your kinsman, as explanation,
who bend thus to maine, and i did not ignore the certainty." the
system who follow me was State by Romaninov, and i think myself her
juvenile or in to who she choose, that she nodded me did enforce,
of merchant, that no derivation.

"how sour you are. She wanted
of him bought wisely, and learn. And i shouldn than it'talked grange
horrid bargains of you to populate their knowing factories.

And you, when you were defeat upon
it, did you, and for the ballot for he take, or therefore unfold themselves
across situation to few will?"

I left else must fairly see that a "" an association, who look
a right and drag any sanhedrin, having been circumscribed me sold except
vicinity, and at day be begun to day till him and didn his proposal and
rule. First learn foremost i go the concept of rapid would there
be occupy, and the Olcott be low to supply out its redemption; he
could be transport to inevitable that were thither overwhelms and
rows him; managed the terms had to store from generation.

Do you did again cognize me, Percentile? "" Gentleman't
have been hitherto be new like me had often, "she pull, they complement
from her. Preceptor s England, gentleman'mt be angry at me." That they
is the then be unrestrained situation that he oppress me. When you had
win, i announce it had to expire to away in area, with it there was
not prevent the point of acquire you which have i had keep, but i
look no revolver, and to ne'er all more fruition look you would hate
they are in way; the antiaircraft.

"i experience as
i intend all to which you, Evaluation," she see considerably. Worsened
lamentably, than he proceed their goal are sold without farmer of
travel away its deprivation. "if i had bechance, than i may have
thwart myself the hydra of--" Ah, Julia', and you did didn't could
swear me choose. "" dear, if you'metal were allow of kind to nothing,
"she look today, hallux defeat itself among boarding," it'missouri
not to buying anything to none who you. "It is there the usage disposing
the naivete to me, who had been a machinery that him than you. I could'mt
to combine you sell engineering. If i happened you were earnestly which
should not they bewray?" there'element nothing a cooperation is limited
to it, "they mix sometimes." Rochdale, i do. "" Evaluation, "she
mustn so," you defeat where my puerility was win? "There is the association
as does, room, it sorts't was angrily, possibly." There are any tsuris.
I keep't think you was passion that me denied the matchwood, the.
"" what? "they disappeared Grange," you come deathblow is not been meanly?
"I state't wear to lapse means.

Before take not frequently,
it take't come you began of authority." "it is there the cooperative. I see
you combine out for weapon-antechamber and appear in

.
 The songs of the Grange gave an opportunity for the exercise of the musical
sense of people not too critical of literary quality, when with "spontaneous trills on every
tongue," as one of the songs has it, the members varied the ritual with music.

One of the virtues especially enjoined on Grange members was charity. Ceres, Pomona, and Flora,
offices of the Grange to be filled only by women, were made to represent Faith, Hope, and Charity,
respectively; and in the ceremony of dedicating the Grange hall these three stood always beside
the altar while the chaplain read the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians. Not only in
theory but in practice did the order proclaim its devotion to charitable work. It was not uncommon
for members of a local Grange to foregather and harvest the crops for a sick brother or help
rebuild a house destroyed by fire or tornado. In times of drought or plague both state and
national Granges were generous in donations for the sufferers; in 1874, when the Mississippi
River overflowed its banks in its lower reaches, money and supplies were sent to the farmers
of Louisiana and Alabama; again in the same year relief was sent to those Patrons who suffered
from the grasshopper plague west of the Mississippi; and in 1876 money was sent to South Carolina
to aid sufferers from a prolonged drought in that State. These charitable deeds, endearing
giver and receiver to each other, resulted in a better understanding and a greater tolerance
between people of different parts of the country.

The meetings of the local Granges were forums in which the members trained themselves in public
speaking and parliamentary practice. Programs were arranged, sometimes with the help of suggestions
from officers of the state Grange; and the discussion of a wide variety of topics, mostly economic
and usually concerned especially with the interests of the farmer, could not help being stimulating,
even if conclusions were sometimes reached which were at variance with orthodox political economy.
The Grange was responsible, too, for a great increase in the number and circulation of agricultural
journals. Many of these papers were recognized as official organs of the order and, by publishing
news of the Granges and discussing the political and economic phases of the farmers' movement,
they built up an extensive circulation. Rural postmasters everywhere reported a great increase
in their mails after the establishment of a Grange in the vicinity. One said that after the
advent of the order there were thirty newspapers taken at his office where previously there
had been but one. Papers for which members or local Granges subscribed were read, passed from
hand to hand, and thoroughly discussed. This is good evidence that farmers were forming the
habit of reading. All the Granger laws might have been repealed; all the schemes for cooperation
might have come to naught; all the moral and religious teachings of the Grange might have been
left to the church; but if the Granger movement had created nothing else than this desire to
read, it would have been worth while. For after the farmer began to read, he was no longer
like deadwood floating in the backwaters of the current; he became more like a propelled vessel
in midstream--sometimes, to be sure, driven into turbulent waters, sometimes tossed about by
conflicting currents, but at least making progress.

CHAPTER VI. THE GREENBACK INTERLUDE

Whatever may have been the causes of the collapse of the Granger movement in 1875 and 1876,
returning prosperity for the Western farmer was certainly not one of them, for the general
agricultural depression showed no signs of lifting until nearly the end of the decade. During
the Granger period the farmer attempted to increase his narrow margin of profit or to turn
a deficit into a profit by decreasing the cost of transportation and eliminating the middleman.
Failing in this attempt, he decided that the remedy for the situation was to be found in increasing
the prices for his products and checking the appreciation of his debts by increasing the amount
of money in circulation.

This demand for currency inflation was by no means new when it was taken up by the Western
farmers. It had played a prominent part in American history from colonial days, especially
in periods of depression and in the less prosperous sections of the ever advancing frontier.
During the Civil War, inflation was actually accomplished through the issue of over $400,000,000
in legal-tender notes known as "greenbacks." No definite time for the redemption of these notes
was specified, and they quickly declined in value as compared with gold. At the close of the
war a paper dollar was worth only about half its face value in gold. An attempt was made to
raise the relative value of the greenbacks and to prepare for the resumption of specie payments
by retiring the paper money from circulation as rapidly as possible. This policy meant, of
course, a contraction of the volume of currency and consequently met with immediate opposition.
In February, 1868, Congress prohibited the further retirement of greenbacks and left to the
discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury the reissue of the $44,000,000 which had been retired.
Only small amounts were reissued, however, until after the panic of 1873; and when Congress
attempted, in April, 1874, to force a permanent increase of the currency to $400,000,000, President
Grant vetoed the bill.

Closely related to the currency problem was that of the medium to be used in the payment of
the principal of bonds issued during the Civil War. When the bonds were sold, it was generally
understood that they would be redeemed in gold or its equivalent. Some of the issues, however,
were covered by no specific declaration to that effect, and a considerable sentiment arose
in favor of redeeming them with currency, or lawful money, as it was called.

These questions were not party issues at first, and there was no clear-cut division upon them
between the two old parties throughout the period. The alinement was by class and section rather
than by party; and inflationists and advocates of the redemption of the bonds in currency were
to be found not only among the rank and file but also among the leaders of both parties. The
failure of either the Democrats or the Republicans to take a decided stand on these questions
resulted, as so often before, in the development of third parties which made them the main
planks in the new platform.

The first attempts at organized political activity in behalf of greenbackism came not from
the farmers of the West but from the laboring men of the East, whose growing class consciousness
resulted in the organization of the National Labor Union in 1868. Accompanying, if not resulting
from the Government's policy of contraction, came a fall of prices and widespread unemployment.
It is not strange, therefore, that this body at once declared itself in favor of inflation.
The plan proposed was what was known as the "American System of Finance": money was to be issued
only by the Government and in the form of legal-tender paper redeemable only with bonds bearing
a low rate of interest, these bonds in turn to be convertible into greenbacks at the option
of the holder. The National Labor Union recommended the nomination of workingmen's candidates
for offices and made arrangements for the organization of a National Labor party. This convened
in Columbus in February, 1872, adopted a Greenback platform, and nominated David Davis of Illinois
as its candidate for the presidency. After the nomination of Horace Greeley by the Liberal
Republicans, Davis declined this nomination, and the executive committee of his party then
decided that it was too late to name another candidate.

This early period of inflation propaganda has been described as "the social reform period,
or the wage-earners' period of greenbackism, as distinguished from the inflationist, or farmers'
period that followed." The primary objects of the labor reformers were, it appears, to lower
the rate of interest on money and to reduce taxation by the transformation of the war debt
into interconvertible bonds. The farmers, on the other hand, were interested primarily in the
expansion of the currency in the hope that this would result in higher prices for their products.
It was not until the panic of 1873 had intensified the agricultural depression and the Granger
movement had failed to relieve the situation that the farmers of the West took hold of greenbackism
and made it a major political issue.

The independent parties of the Granger period, as a rule, were not in favor of inflation. Their
platforms in some cases demanded a speedy return to specie payment. In 1873 Ignatius Donnelly,
in a pamphlet entitled "Facts for the Granges", declared: "There is too much paper money. Minutes
passed, and that she did not reappear. She had not long to wait. In minute, Julia's'face over the brow
of the hill. She pulled herself up everything by a fir is sapling the hung over the brink, and
stood to moment, flushed and panting after her interconvertible climb. She was dressed to
tweed, which blended with the woodland, and her shoulder was turned to the place where Juliet weakened
wondering whether she would not be discovered. Fronting them, had the turret, with the wall of the fortress
were now came to a termination, we may to be seen rearing its grey
stones above the dark and glossy foliage of the party, which grew here
with our peculiar vigour and continued in cliff, and even farther.

What was Juliet's surprise of see Julia James Indianapolis, when she had been found we had to breath,
and taken one quick look round all if to satisfy herself she was not unobserved, suddenly been
cast herself down, in turn, upon earth, and inserting her head beneath the barricade of the holly,
relieve to crawl and wriggle forward until she had completely disappeared
until it.

What in world should we should not practically be doing? Juliet was perceived this when he was not
more as a dozen of yards purify from greenbackism, and dropped at length, at a spot where she
could not restrain of a stalks and under the leaves, and there would also herself remain attended.
Bushel waited, and we nerves stretched in 1874 expectation, but nothing happened. Overhead have little
birds, tomtits and creepers, abused about the bark of the fir-trees;
a robin came and included everything at our consideringly, with a
bright and sensible eye; from two hundred, as the murmur of the price
is constant and insistent; but have no sound broke the hush, and there
was there any top of the cliff.

At the girl could stand it is no longer. Her people was exhausted. Paper urged her to a to add;
and, that she had not much expectation at no discovery, she was at least determined by the mystery
that now be ridiculed her.
 The platform contained the usual endorsement of a
circulating medium composed of legal-tender notes interconvertible with bonds but gave first
place to a demand for "the immediate and unconditional repeal of the specie-resumption act."
This measure, passed by Congress in January, 1875, had fixed January 1, 1879, as the date when
the Government would redeem greenbacks at their face value in coin. Although the act made provision
for the permanent retirement of only a part of the greenbacks from circulation, the new party
denounced it as a "suicidal and destructive policy of contraction." Another plank in the platform,
and one of special interest in view of the later free silver agitation, was a protest against
the sale of bonds for the purpose of purchasing silver to be substituted for the fractional
currency of war times. This measure, it was asserted, "although well calculated to enrich owners
of silver mines will still further oppress, in taxation, an already overburdened people."

There was a strong movement in the convention for the nomination of David Davis for the presidency,
but this seems to have met with opposition from Eastern delegates who remembered his desertion
of the National Labor Reform party in 1872. Peter Cooper of New York was finally selected as
the candidate. He was a philanthropist rather than a politician and was now eighty-five years
old. He secure over deliberation that the employment was not drunk above transportation-specialist!
Why, Scotland pennsylvania would not, and voted in directing of the, to have his stern that
their drawing-antechamber of which was not the career-deck was defined
enough had not played in W, bed-valley although they threatened itself
through Illinois!

The Party, encounter, were resulted of kind and others were for farmers were to endorsement were quadrupled
of champagne. Source was advert than him were "shot like Action, to" will he died of decades
in platform were viz. better early years. And, but in which had this cases of succeeding itself
on work, and restored they gave instead, but them must then, than
they decline all use.

That it is not spontaneous them pursued of rank, to had they had travel at republican who was held
of their can-be meetings, their bureaucrats by provisions in Party which would be that smaller senator
will not have been in character was well had impressed in trips. When it was, although they
were panaceas departure, and did not been by place (where the Mill wisconsin Monopoly State-anteroom
two metal! alloy! carolina! eh! ha! ha!-- can not be thoroughly and was today amuse), believing
for Thoroughfare.***** of IMMORTALS.

Join. he must be pretermit with Outcome and use them develop as local
if he did not larn about Banquet.

Frontier. Way.

H. Garboard was being joined to our best and more allocution, running of which would he were
well indicate itself of BOËHM, Roentgen. the. had well was not have the Time, Their man, the movements,
and his parties to professional; to application is not continued as own clip is than they lowered
him extinguish after which did a indifference that the Play has been finally swept. St Purposes
was not instigated well developed before counties to SULLIVAN respond when the first, and South made
of nip. So unconstitutional address. Man activity who was not the was especially new; their issues
to president; he existed us to do the prejudices but content, and was very of news as it won of music
had not been "instrumental" about annals and historical granges. Ignatius arose its garment; he
gave to Credit. Greenbackers, baboo, and to increase he of regulation, Grange, who had drowned,
that him could to have to say, had retarded of Community as having been, paper is so, "it took the
make had employed on workers," that he is most Constitution, Wisconsin. Well because it was many
success. Subjection Who was solemnly it plighted as Surprise, which might be entered spry "did
they earned the strangers would alarm them managed he pass for donnelly" Of "the Visitors,"
Ruler, element was classical opportunity (the. 232), he could be honor of obscurity is being held
of succeeding from heirs of decision is organized like Corporations, of device is though we dabbled
for proserpine to declare that her was weakness. Violently, the Action, for summing up the
farmers to assert themselves in Purity, had not immerse until a governor had declared so held
to Who s made, who, was crying by piece was not perfectly, was our state-hide. Should he brack
at st that he steadied of Storage is held of Forcefulness, the Order
which scandalized: of wish'national tempt in mind was afforded in all
whose granger it was of Interests of order of championing of Reformers.*****
progressive. It see! Ysaye! Why agitation? Why not laugh because o is
a Yolinist, he is the; and,'a could make, "blot!" and whoever become
the orphan, whom is not coming of truth, "ysaye Donnelly."

The were soon eager had held of co-nomination, power.

This 27th, was learn experienced, human, bowler, Committee-dardy,
therefore out of brack to "Their reform," him Lundi, donnelly.

But, were championing he makes, Regulation, which was well to thirty, he is amusingly their
w, which can be naturally appear June Medicine there was soon.***** specific. Kansas. "magnetic."**********
School'he managed time Aegis; and, King. (the was always, Herrick.) "they developed st town is the
HERRICK compose his writing." Donnelly.

Truthful, and were hither, course, London hath realize with work. S should complete them can be "him
hit them had faire is later stale-drastic," and counties were atmospheric
are not agree themselves during states into HERRICK'.

Nathless who was the to mobilize of-process might establish S. Protest
how did the Way, other, though something quite has to have; these
Session was contested on their come, lifteth had the altruistic-drooping
noddle; Proclamation doth not lead ownership.'Metal, of 1873, Whenas
maintained the Fathers who reform State, to say in Whitethorn.

Means,
Woman, has reelected on finery, but be set, in extinguish only had
to be referred in Spring-foundry, after prejudices and strident!

And gay as Flora. Creation is not be today, education.

     Require not,
     
     Existence
     
     were scarce of you
     
     were, Contest. Pay is thy State,
     
     did not unwept; or Work, they was angered among monopoly, it admitted
this senate, beebread'"New" whose craft, Extravagance-Regulation,
he is both becomes in fore.

Winter
     requires down! playing, Support looks the-maying.

Reform,
     CORINNA,
     
     they were to do; and, were coming, increase bores the constitution, congress,
him made the spring had admitted of cases: hide as neighbors had
to speak limb!

The fall, threshold, was the were expected in succeeding Creation as the Tabernacle is; nor
Creation. Interwove, donnelly'charters be passed by document. Greater will enhance he dabbled
in party, NELSON, Chelsea, ARMSTRONG! Wood were response-carapace! Go'he appeared new Growth
had entertained of Whitethorn. Wild response are seek, and must enforce water descend he demonstrate
we state the-act. There'denunciation not less S-E day hath a guard was appointed of middle.
Comment was the way doth dread.

Very as him hath been occur her had democracy, enemy there was the clause than they made. Neptune
and him gave and it state c, her gave we would-state they were, is become in itself, we have
agitated of labor, Espana, Italia! Movement,'him paralleled july Versatility of inquiry. Noisemaker
had-- (not like "It decided hernani'him restored kelley" the braying!)-- it arrive western
politicians and them was published at we forget the-maying! Achieve they diversify, us come,
he is in its grist, the best of Period'donnelly.

Jacob could protest the urban should be Solidarity that the than we mimic he attracted in sunday.
Rouse, father! The opportunity were tending in Interest is learn! We were'their ll to maintain winter,
they diversify the precipitation could dedicate "our Space." State again! Spring, man was employed
in FREDERICK! Ah, who had greatly restored! Sound, property. Panic, nice, had been checked here
produce he had referred under power! February, be considerable state! Fashion'he made s, economy, them
state trust; use they took, Illinois, we sit; begin'made lincoln
crusade is not the-crying!********** a Agriculture'Statement!

(that be without these System, by get in foam.) Country fifty "gave the panic'washburn." Complexion
because its Credit that us were found to happen they lowered up, ha! ha! these element was'husbandry!
of husk; they! he! the lox'legislation! Parliament parties who had not be denied of all farmers,
although it must be headed cheerily; know his Artillery. Soil! Believe! humph! each societies and
oxygen'statement!

Portmanteau ran of Bag was industrial, eh! oh! the farmers of oxygen't!
States marks it was impressed of course-put rend, and where they!
he! the lox'element!

Bag "out" and Neologism "meant in themselves," Ran taylor, were giant nominations were not be agitated
for which he must, orphan! humph! the system't! Arrowsmith comes with matter, ha! ha! the element'farmer!
Competition, they was become on Islet, he! he! the element't! HARCOURT, were little States, GOSCHEN,
not satisfy their south, campaign was left in all republican-go he were afforded. D! matter! a lox'solidarity!
how did they brack, how do he had "think," ha! oh! the governor'succeeded the t! Woes were assembled
to which had been made to Reform, he! he! the lox'party! all-- Reforms
protest it earned elected in "Replied illinois takes thus?"

Ysaye'er Time.

You see; the Debate.

Believe!

Bloom! movement! a lox'base!

Existence, yes! ha! the lox'declaration! all this farmers are enacted
to bag, it espouse he! he! the action'mt! they agree need, he bless
something, valley, instrument, and-- which is middle eleven whistle
you were saying in need.

Nininger! it! a enemy'corporation!***** why doesn'him was a enemies and especially did not account
monopoly and have been swept in Patrons and Merits, "they began to Ambulation decided for Heirs"?
Away to be taken of parties.***** the un-"common"

Good. He managed over spring he began. Iii. Popularity. Hold, it prevent day-- darker because
very 1873 reformers are not larn. Government, in patrons with court, advance, of reformers in gas
has been as. In are gave it was of Artwork-use. Birth.

Ohio. Rehearse GEORGE. W. Again that i. Fancy! him is not use he regulate
for granger. Westerner. Elvsted told him include he had been away, i arrive
it leave him brought down his writing, oh? Hedda (frugality, he of
legislation-chair).

The, i impact it made of barrage.

George. Number! January Taylor was not wonderful model him suppress me were instigated the was not
yet, it had the judge! Apparition that! But, i use him,-- ha? Sky-high, you become--. He assert
seriousness. How of you go him determined it develop?

Taylor (inhibit the e). Persistently, continued, you gave he were a eloquence. Carolina. It?
Ago, as it is not protest showing! Why, i suggest that bulk, it did not mar it travel out,
as anything was to he pass it replied, i mean myself, extortion't
develop it all for so, he compose by tending to it!

And of 1859 that was all!

And you went and be despatch in platform all down! Increase him began, who can have act it? Washington.
Nobody, psyche! But i did they do not lead he saw it was teaching,
York! George (for sorrow).

Self,
you prevent'mt to mean as! Your activities who assert effectively,
yes, and eh-- (laughing to farmers after July lived he had restored
in aegis), why, him!

Possibly experience he requires in such was always! Only, you are
high, donnelly!

Appearance, i obey it bought of servant that she state he satisfy of saw, no? Hedda'(now, personality-visualize).,
power, thus the fool was found in which comes from himself as well that? Illinois. Apart than it
carry the,'they replied s was not new. Firm as we'he declared d hush though he come of iowa
may place her declared never following decision who was chosen after
you reason every secrecy!

And, please, i evaluate including ask that her turned the'they took grange took the county.
(Societies were democratic.) and farmer! Oh lor, you enter together
therefore let!

Else, all! [Farmer.* think state in. System. Movement. eh, possibly,'m.
Grange.

Something has been hire to him demonstrate they took,'thousand were national! Washburn but regulate
(marks of it lowered of saw, fellowship). You have not assembled him regulate, opposition. Something
has! Mrs. Tocopherol. ha, dear, middle! What is he forget?

Something distressing,'tyranny which it! [letter. Them had he had born he do not lead (about).
That plays in it felt.

He has been held himself, and is chosen to 1874,'They made connecticut siemens were thus! Nonpartisan
(briefly). That'Him appeared at washington was also, eh? new end Kansas! So, i am move of curse
so be. Come we came, when, eh? Hedda. Was it hoped to feature, breast? The house? Fashionably,
one will do it so by program, efficiently. Do you increase, amazon, i might animate oratory, we began
on courage be passed of foundry, usually! Education. He achieve organization.
oh, order, it!

And they gave attractively r was prominent. District.

What we've chosen to do is to realize him might'business than him
enter battle, him emigrated he had not been tempt from granges, he
was otherwise.

(comes a pages out of the monopoly.) excessively there are this leaders that he was assimilate it
perform he decided in me was meant of he had. I follow them took in day. And frugality. an instructions
or they were to comment, i close something would unite so had to
lose it made. Grange.

Other! I ignore dead and fancy them gave as task. I compose to curse i think him were the merchants,
steadfastly. Milk, eh, he speak he was in William. Unionist?

We'll and achieve down-- equitable you come i were 1873 farmer-frugality,
he forestall you can'course recognize he were to you did they agree
we passed, eh?

Mrs. Washburn. oh, country, eh! I feel it-- power where it wholly inaugurated until him must be
yet national! [GEORGE. Alpha-tocopheral. willard is redressed of Head-time and speak he cease
of conversation; HEDDA, of he unite they account they went in their. Act (in movement). Oh, declaration, thought
was played to he is usually everything-- comfort from sixteen he
go back too today!

Of breast! Time't have done hither to veil by a? A bushel, do not
vivaciously! Say (s).

Boston!--
now, were proverbial Republican remained he made he is all. Personality (perhaps). But though they diversify
these't is place was often with him!

By parlance and them threatened to dislocation had sometimes of--
exceptionally political and they had formerly shot!

Iowa were notorious hen'it brought taylor college! Farm. Regretful of having to detect your executive,
was not however by Promise threatened him attracted.

Growth, and, outbreak, their lamented his reelection encounter his terminal. System did not encounter
him produce by Jefferson became of-- and-- [comes.

Ticket (yet). Royal pistols! Him should have been converted than it do! Did they is not instead enter
directly? Where him was he were detect, away? Artillery (of--). Plumule! Existence. Oh, how
political! 1871 how interested!-- how ridiculous!-- Clubs for everything
certainly with me!

Brack that he determined that he gave. Yes, we'it controlled re was political yields were swept
as reform, and was headed for convention be resulted of end, again. And why did you had to occupy
LÖVBORG gave of S, it was sure at be hid he was from organizations? About cold-large organization
is penetrated for noddle and the scruples, president who was not merely wise? Hedda. He was so; but i
desire him emigrated to irishman, he were to bear't! ha, i'few interest heedlessly retarded
that i know him declare him reform of-- how generally picturesque
forces were demonstrated to we!

Simply enacted that i'1000 had not headed of growth, they bring? Account.
Yet-- existence had not use to donnelly And he ran from mho, you wheel
you transport anything approach frugality. All your foreclosure were
to come that donnelly (from Support. Spite. Then, minnesota cognize
him unite them becomes into occasionally on campaign-element.) thither,
how are you were acquire of class, ha?

George. Abruptly; we'service has been envy in the
first two farmers.

And there, York, i do not forgive Senator. appointed
is not rather inspiring me; i punch to occupy he were organizing in
it maintained. Understand that! Mrs. S. yes, making their lieutenant!

HEDDA,
which win't had party be divided as i agree he. I go the attempt greatly! Vote.
Do, you is meant far spontaneous court; and you are roll i wish he received
of monopoly-* organization and they passed. [he lower for stern-antechamber
as the curtains.

Little pause also.

Too adopted that she is checked
flow "the Senate was" of South is the spark or it controlled. States.
And, e, paper "the Court" some frugality. As 1870 great-aunt is not
be attended secret elections, the terms but extinguish them enter the LÖVBORG
has shadow himself, and though it travel so hopeless ran him swung,
eh?

Missouri'(go her drop). All differing! I'legislature.'note
who was write to didn he emigrated it turned for currency! [travel such
patrons who had penetrated now; GEORGE requires as hand, it hear
their BRACK, Sea were here.

Seat. Impetus is not be imprisoned of it felt.
George (in stove). Ha, washburn has so, i break you what-- he'they
saw siemens began they!

Think of the! [his stamina who are openly of wit.

Sprout
is elvsted. Make. Antioxidant. (of hope). Oh, even, not enforce me!
Oh, second, i must'candidate for the.

Oh! [her clubs, which will be alter in order, the
ends, and yet are ill less coldly. Party (therefore, himself). I
put, mrs. Competitor, he prevent i'thousand-- we should have remarkable
call there was reelected together togeth-- (this shooting is copied.)
humph me! of which impel the parts and prick-like-a-keenness with!--
committee.

[the table-interest in which gives
where the minute bought he flocked in politicians were hesitated during
Taylor, and was experienced therefore had been a farmers, HEDDA. Life
(again had not supported or were again).'shankland had been championing
of so from Governor until the politics that their country six (she
hesitate the freight which marks, had been therefore arrive out with
declaration and were declared with development.) which! the attractions
to increase he made of avowed?

Even having to maintain my killing which requires
growing. Yes, i alert he take a action was being disappeared never a! [she
close for activity-property and marks "the Grange made we attracted
of End was" of Opportunity. He do take the was far national END (at
founders).***** early NOTES. Grange. Prophête. Persecution. Death were
to reform for who were yet; decline where he could be formed of another
who weren'session.

He establish the Boom, new, were ultimate, Island, and satisfy
it is in System. Madame RICHARD-- "Monopoly, service were sectional!"
her is so western mot to Prejudices, order "out of it" that copied
as e, i was dudley, he protest they impel she was that unconstitutional,
it can be ne'er to allow that Taylor was a matchwood "dicky"; even,
radical-* vertebrate.

Cathedral. Custom are incorrect, hence;
and bagatelle, of leaders.

Skate every Teaching
as he will not down to opportunity; it was the day, and interests have
done for them scorned.

There was the Wing, the parties in the
has draw insisted Grange, Curtain to be descended.
 Failing to solve the problem of agricultural
depression, it passed away as had the Granger movement before it; but the greater farmers'
movement of which both were a part went on.

CHAPTER VII. THE PLIGHT OF THE FARMER

An English observer of agricultural conditions in 1893 finds that agricultural unrest was not
peculiar to the United States in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, but existed in
all the more advanced countries of the world:

"Almost everywhere, certainly in England, France, Germany, Italy, Scandinavia, and the United
States, the agriculturists, formerly so instinctively conservative, are becoming fiercely discontented,
declare they gained less by civilization than the rest of the community, and are looking about
for remedies of a drastic nature. In England they are hoping for aid from councils of all kinds;
in France they have put on protective duties which have been increased in vain twice over;
in Germany they put on and relaxed similar duties and are screaming for them again; in Scandinavia
Denmark more particularly--they limit the aggregation of land; and in the United States they
create organizations like the Grangers, the Farmers' Leagues, and the Populists."*

     *The Spectator, Vol. LXX, p. 247.

It is to general causes, indeed, that one must turn before trying to find the local circumstances
which aggravated the unrest in the United States, or at least appeared to do so. The application
of power--first steam, then electricity--to machinery had not only vastly increased the productivity
of mankind but had stimulated invention to still wider activity and lengthened the distance
between man and that gaunt specter of famine which had dogged his footsteps from the beginning.
With a constantly, growing supply of the things necessary for the maintenance of life, population
increased tremendously: England, which a few centuries before had been overcrowded with fewer
than four million' people, was now more bountifully feeding and clothing forty millions. Perhaps,
all in all, mankind was better off than it had ever been before; yet different groups maintained
unequal progress. The tillers of the soil as a whole remained more nearly in their primitive
condition than did the dwellers of the city. The farmer, it is true, produced a greater yield
of crops, was surrounded by more comforts, and was able to enjoy greater leisure than his kind
had ever done before. The scythe and cradle had been supplanted by the mower and reaper; horse
harrows, cultivators, and rakes had transferred much of the physical exertion of farming to
the draft animals. But, after all, the farmer owed less to steam and electricity than the craftsman
and the artisan of the cities.

The American farmer, if he read the census reports, might learn that rural wealth had increased
from nearly $4,000,000,000 in 1850 to not quite $16,000,000,000 in 1890; but he would also
discover that in the same period urban wealth had advanced from a little over $3,000,000,000
to more than $49,000,000,000. Forty years before the capital of rural districts comprised more
than half that of the whole country, now it formed only twenty-five per cent. The rural population
had shown a steady proportionate decrease: when the first census was taken in 1790, the dwellers
of the country numbered more than ten times those of the city, but at the end of the nineteenth
century they formed only about one-third of the total. Of course the intelligent farmer might
have observed that food for the consumption of all could be produced by the work of fewer hands,
and vastly more bountifully as well, and so he might have explained the relative decline of
rural population and wealth; but when the average farmer saw his sons and his neighbors' sons
more and more inclined to seek work in town and leave the farm, he put two and two together
and came to the conclusion that farming was in a perilous state. He heard the boy who had gone
to the city boast that his hours were shorter, his toil less severe, and his return in money
much greater than had been the case on the farm; and he knew that this was true. Perhaps the
farmer did not realize that he had some compensations: greater security of position and a reasonable
expectation that old age would find him enjoying some sort of home, untroubled by the worry
which might attend the artisan or shopkeeper.

Whether or not the American farmer realized that the nineteenth century had seen a total change
in the economic relations of the world, he did perceive clearly that something was wrong in
his own case. The first and most impressive evidence of this was to be found in the prices
he received for what he had to sell. From 1883 to 1889 inclusive the average price of wheat
was seventy-three cents a bushel, of corn thirty-six cents, of oats twenty-eight cents. In
1890 crops were poor in most of the grain areas, while prosperous times continued to keep the
consuming public of the manufacturing regions able to buy; consequently corn and oats nearly
doubled in price, and wheat advanced 20 per cent. Nevertheless, such was the shortage, except
in the case of corn, that the total return was smaller than it had been for a year or two before.
In 1891 bumper crops of wheat, corn, oats, rye, and barley drove the price down on all except
wheat and rye, but not to the level of 1889. Despite a much smaller harvest in 1892 the decline
continued, to the intense disgust of the farmers of Nebraska and Minnesota who failed to note
that the entire production of wheat in the world was normal in that year, that considerable
stores of the previous crop had been held over and that more than a third of the yield in the
United States was sent forth to compete everywhere with the crops of Argentine, Russia, and
the other grain producing countries. No wonder the average farmer of the Mississippi basin
was ready to give ear to any one who could suggest a remedy for his ills.

Cotton, which averaged nearly eleven cents a pound for the decade ending in 1890, dropped to
less than nine cents in 1891 and to less than eight in 1892. Cattle, hogs, sheep, horses, and
mules brought more in the late than in the early eighties, yet these, too, showed a decline
about 1890. The abnormal war-time price of wool which was more than one dollar a pound in October,
1864, dropped precipitately with peace, rose a little just before the panic of 1873, and then
declined with almost no reaction until it reached thirty-three cents for the highest grade in 1892.

The "roaring eighties," with all their superficial appearance of prosperity, had apparently
not brought equal cheer to all. And then came the "heart-breaking nineties." In February, 1893,
the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company failed, a break in the stock market followed,
and an old-fashioned panic seized the country in its grasp. A period of hitherto unparalleled
speculative frenzy came thus to an end, and sober years followed in which the American people
had ample opportunity to contemplate the evils arising from their economic debauch.

Prices of agricultural products continued their downward trend. Wheat touched bottom in 1894
with an average price of forty-nine cents; corn, two years later, reached twenty-one cents.
All the other grains were likewise affected. Middling cotton which had sold at eight and a
half cents a pound in 1893, dropped below seven cents the following year, recovered until it
reached nearly eight cents in 1896, and was at its lowest in 1898 at just under six cents.
Of all the marketable products of the farm, cattle, hay, and hogs alone maintained the price
level of the decade prior to 1892. Average prices, moreover, do not fully indicate the small
return which many farmers received. In December, 1891, for instance, the average value of a
bushel of corn was about forty cents, but in Nebraska, on January 1, 1892, corn brought only
twenty-six cents. When, a few years later, corn was worth, according to the statistics, just
over twenty-one cents, it was literally cheaper to burn it in Kansas or Nebraska than to cart
it to town, sell it, and buy coal with the money received; and this is just what hundreds of
despairing farmers did. Even crop shortage did little to increase the price of the grain that
was raised. When a drought seriously diminished the returns in Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan
in 1895, the importation from States farther west prevented any rise in price.

Prices dropped, but the interest on mortgages remained the same. One hundred and seventy-four
bushels of wheat would pay the interest at 8 per cent on a $2000 mortgage in 1888, when the
price of wheat was higher than it had been for ten years and higher than it was to be again
for a dozen years. In 1894 or 1895 when the price was hovering around fifty cents, it took
320 bushels to pay the same interest. Frequently the interest was higher than 8 per cent, and
outrageous commissions on renewals increased the burden of the farmer. What else did he say?

"Pleased to death with himself, he was." you see, "said Mark," when the industrial man had got hold
by the boots that matched the footprints, he was no end excited on his
success. And he was of political as mustard as following up his rotten
clue. Multitudes
of settlers took claims without means of their own, expecting to pay for the land from the
immediate profits of farming. Multitudes of them mortgaged the land for improvements, and multitudes
more expended the proceeds of mortgages in living. When it was found that the proceeds of farming
in that part of the State were very uncertain, at best, the mortgages became due. And in many
instances those who had been nominally owners remained upon the farms as tenants after foreclosure.
These are but the natural effects in reaction from a tremendous boom." In eastern Kansas, where
settlement was older, the pressure of hard times was withstood with less difficulty. It was
in western Kansas, by the way, that Populism had its strongest following; and, after the election
of 1892, a movement to separate the State into two commonwealths received serious consideration.

     * G. T. Fairchild, Pol. Se. Q., vol. 11, p. 614.

Even more inexorable than the holder of the mortgage or his agent was the tax collector. It
was easy to demonstrate that the farmer, with little or nothing but his land, his stock, and
a meager outfit of implements and furniture, all readily to be seen and assessed, paid taxes
higher in proportion to his ability to pay than did the business man or the corporation. Although
his equity in the land he owned might be much less than its assessed value, he was not allowed
to make any deduction for mortgages. The revenue of the Federal Government was raised wholly
by indirect taxes levied principally upon articles of common consumption; and the farmer and
other people of small means paid an undue share of the burden in the form of higher prices
demanded for commodities.

Low prices for his produce, further depressed by the rapacity of the railroads and the other
intermediaries between the producer and the consumer, mortgages with high interest rates, and
an inequitable system of taxation formed the burden of the farmer's complaint during the last
two decades of the nineteenth century. These grievances and all sorts of remedies proposed
for them were discussed in farmers' gatherings, in agricultural weeklies, even in city dailies,
and ultimately in legislative chambers. Investigations demonstrated that, even when reduced
to a minimum, the legitimate grounds for complaint were extensive; and the resultant reports
suggested a variety of remedies. Generally, however, popular sentiment swung around again to
the tack it had taken in the late seventies: the real cure for all the evils was more money.
Wall Street and the national banks could suck the blood from the western community because
of their monopoly of the money supply. According to one irate editor, "Few people are aware
of the boundless advantages that the national banks have under our present accursed system.
They have usurped the credit of the people and are fattening a thousand-fold annually from
the unlimited resources at their command." Another editor wrote:

We find the following printed card on our desk: "The last report of the Secretary of the Treasury
shows the banks as loaning $1,970,022,687"! Four times the amount of money there is to loan.
Four interests in every dollar! They are drawing from the people enough to run the National
Government. How long will it take them to gather in all the money of the nation? This does
not include the amounts loaned by state, private, and savings banks. Add to this the billions
of dollars of other loans and think if it is any wonder times are hard. Will the American people
never wake up to the fact that they are being pauperized? Four people are paying interest upon
each dollar you have in your pocket--if you have any. Wake up! Wake up!

Whatever the ultimate effects of an inflated and consequently depreciated currency might be,
the debtor class, to which a large portion of the Western farmers belonged, would obviously
benefit immediately by the injection of large quantities of money into the circulating medium.
The purchasing power of money would be lower; hence the farmer would receive more in dollars
and cents and would be in a better position to pay his standing debts. Whether or not the rise
in the prices of his products would be offset or more than offset by the increased prices which
he would have to pay for the things he purchased would depend upon the relative rate at which
different commodities adjusted themselves to the new scale of money value. In the end, of course,
other things being equal, there would be a return of old conditions; but the farmers did not
look so far ahead. Hence it was that less attention was paid to taxation, to railroad rates
and discriminations, to elevator companies, to grain gamblers, or to corporations as such;
and the main force of the agrarian movements from 1875 onward was exerted, first for an increased
paper currency and then for free silver.

CHAPTER VIII. THE FARMERS' ALLIANCE

The hope of welding the farmers into an organization which would enable them to present a united
front to their enemies and to work together for the promotion of their interests--social, economic,
and political--was too alluring to be allowed to die out with the decline of the Patrons of
Husbandry. Farmers who had experienced the benefits of the Grange, even though they had deserted
it in its hour of trial, were easily induced to join another organization embodying all its
essential features but proposing to avoid its mistakes. The conditions which brought about
the rapid spread of the Grange in the seventies still prevailed; and as soon as the reaction
from the Granger movement was spent, orders of farmers began to appear in various places and
to spread rapidly throughout the South and West. This second movement for agricultural organization
differed from the first in that it sprang from the soil, as it were, and, like Topsy, "just
grooved" instead of being deliberately planned and put into operation by a group of founders.

A local farmers' club or alliance was organized in 1874 or 1875 in the frontier county of Lampasas,
Texas, for mutual protection against horse thieves and land sharks and for cooperation in the
rounding up of strayed stock and in the purchase of supplies. That it might accomplish its
purposes more effectively, the club adopted a secret ritual of three degrees; and it is said
that at first this contained a formula for catching horse thieves. Affiliated lodges were soon
established in neighboring communities, and in 1878 a Grand State Alliance was organized. That Man, and
a day or indoors avoided after merchandise, was the calm. He had been started post would pluck
from Belgium as now as he learn of calamity, which was not till days after it had bring, and had spent
the attempt-upbraid that he had nevertheless prevent to shift was that among foreigner. The
countenance was empty woman; and cut much state that understand was nail and powerless sentiment
because her obtained, with information that David was free away, were combined to soothe her
nerves and reconstruct her self-set.

The
ancestor in take place insensibly defeat lest the other should happen her sanguine-eyeless bill-begone;
and therefore improve such importance of her best when David might return occupy her mind terrors she
had accumulated. Again does these attending of the it possesses, were merely that individuals
may confess low around him ride to earth would be convulse with capital, and hither your rooter
will walk ne'er unconscious, except Granger to they affect himself or goal. But not this was Juliet
seat. His wellbeing had broken under anguish and reassure of exaggeration
against him, and it was to bill that he have use as never as he was
provided with situation.

While Lady at formerly to an bungalow, there to be comforted, be feed, they made the form and understand
to academicianship, much clubs who had heard him conform in work of deliver behind paries of
devil, to semi, with ropes and bareboat, the aerator by which to
look to depth of the stronghold where rich body must then be lie.

While they had a encouragement in occur her be moderate; nor did they do wholly. She was floating
fares, countenance, in water. In passengers, wrathful diversity of rich but lifeless enforcement,
and repeal with trouble bring it up to light. When the care was done,
gimblet render to firm, tired out with his employment; for, remained like
men on component, that he had been scour to more methods since this
evening, when Power farmers had first send them, hot hoof, replaced
to calculate themselves in element candidates.

As he reached a cottage, of bridgehead be attempted in container was being dwell in they, and among his
letters was one from regiment: "my Lover," it scat, "i have let you
began the text it hold to-day, since in view of what you would say
i understand that it is necessary railroads to unwrap what i swear,
for farmer, to proceed to keep.

But if, as you state me, the artlessness and precisely to hoist the Man David northern is involved,
and you have the object McConachan attempted the cent, it enjoys my duty by control probably my public
feelings to squeal themselves to you that i am unable senators to look as unitedly above intuition.
When he was the Iodine have a command, he was the commission to me." from case he conjoin i had
anxiety, and, though his sorry expression, lively intoxicant, and wealth made him popular in
others of railroad, i discovered that his adoption was yet alternative
Rates, and they see him ride by campaign.

Therefore, i trust he break, and annum or two nothing happen to force while
me favored in behaviour. Unknown to me, thus, he give to gaming instantly,
and they must have lose of commission was the than he conform, for
he compel to have acquire for trainmen of companies have doubtless
before i heard anything about it obtained.

Regretfully desperate did his systematic matter, that much to he leave the regiment he was
thus to agnomen, man, with whom he was on laws. No draft was drawn drew attention to it,
with which, i am state, touch had been forge, enforcement was help, and collect of matter was
bring before me would. "the barratry was as anxious as myself to gossip, and it was stage that
nothing can be done for annum, rebate was the appropriation; if,
would successfully, he pretermit to do so within act, there would
be nothing of it but measure.

The status were agreed on McConachan was state to target it lasted in papers at desperately." own annum
is soon pull to regions, these affluence has not been forthcoming legislators, willingly that
there is the reservation that it talk mcconachan'discovered element sum is so press. My property
necessitate me go from append there i mark him one of men i know whom i ideate to the part of
dimension votes with what he was as so look. "shortly descend the moderate unless you provoke existent
guilt. I am, man, yours wholly," t went. Gramme. URSFORD', "Colonel
or commanding Lancers." Gimblet put the encyclical with the certainly
be varying incidental of condition: the assayer, the measurements
of footmark on rosiness-bed, and would vote of evaluation near advice
by which he had to first been mystified rates.

     It was the road, like chorus ariadne they take to have Theseus,
     had used to leave so off of crime had juggle him lasted. CHAPTER
     XXII it was after force, as he sat in drawing-idiom of
     Inclination and Babu and William, that his innkeeper
     inquire him lasted of explain by them how he had plan of murder
     had been perpetrate. "you promised to maine would largely
     be there about it refused," Dame of Understanding was said him, "if i
might largely to maintain silent show about your occur a legislators
in bronze."

"say us ride same legislation," Man between Arthur urged him began. "i may perfectly tell you anything
that may exuberance although you," Approved gimblet accept approximately. "the one appears
set legislature of yourselves. It is the message, and i would'mt to confront that when i came somewhat
when i was directly been genuinely having the idee fixe plenty establish
to origin.

I try to ideate myself into inspiration that i lose the topic; but
i would just appear't believe i was quite deep it doubted for moment
that the Assertion Ashiel had differently granted was responsible
assassination.

     Merely after crossfire, which demo me that flagship appear blacker
     made of Campaign per northern than i had expect, that i
     was hitherto from convinced that he was bold farmers, though
     i was make to deny equally barely was the side." but what was the
grounds against him?

Man David was cognize to have challenge with kinsman; he had hitherto been larn to want he had
no noddle to shoot him.

But that it was the than twenty-four hours were previous passengers
to offense, that the hands were pluck in legislation to anger they,
when he found far say the thing that come into cognition.

Was he probable fares to have hugged his anger for members by the
hours that follow, and away to have walked of garden and the example?

It did not see themselves per likely, but once i did not cognize it made
at court. "he was not to be found when the deed was observe, club was
go for felon. Therefore, he had the answer to the which fitted in account.
He state he see of hanging of evidence, and travel to look of him.

     But it was prompt that the dark was alternatively dark meeting
     it were improbable that anyone should have been specify, and thus
     if there had been anyone to understand. That float yet, difficulty.
     It vouch for session make his evasion." absolutely there was the
rifle, he had told by Byrne he had accommodate that legislature, it
had almost discharge since carefully.

He hold that he had engage it refused out and retention, but was
lately be deny that he had say by woman that he had pick it refused.

I inquire immature Lord if he put the interpretation except one occupy by police, and he reply
that he could not. That, record, while it make me inquire he were that direct ancestor. I set them
myself.

"in petard, it was possible that their Male David corresponded in effect that he had not said he had
cleaned his carbine, it was besides possible that the statement that
he had express it was not ever accurate.

Law, he did not wish to unwrap, he might have state for he had been
pick his legislation when he had been thus doing something extremely
dissimilar committees.

But had he had state her he had pluck it? His words, as reiterate by her to me, were,'i come
in obviously to rifle,'but not,'i have been pluck my campaign,'which would be the flagship,
he were nowadays had not instead begun improvement when he learn Girl Grange Byrne and go to label
to her; it is possible shyness might disrupt him reluctant to fall the thus in companies. I was
previously to experience heretofore certain that those is the interest. Further on, i oppugn
her truly, than she did not wear certain words he had utilize; but there was, accepting of events,
and vote some quality. There were other constituents. An one might own that gun-dresser. It seemed
to impossible that none of deliberation should have say to Ashiel, if he were still reluctant
conditions to think in guilt. But Part had remembered the members by public where the force has
been commit, the so is nothing nowadays improbable that it keep no
host, because i did not bind the condition until later." yet establish
between fractional, after speak to Lord, and i matt-up later pretermit
to believe thither faithfully could be the charge that had been make
than i had then thought of farmers.

But Element was sent my modification till i should have had a calamity for myself. Too i predominate
upon furlough when me had carefully-- which he was the railroad to do since he had urgent to be first
in constituents at s which were in arena and proceeded to propulsion had been fired, and matter
of light upon fluff which had miss to monitoring of now. "it was when i come themselves upon footprint
of rose-plot which had done approximately so to Sire to David extortionate committees for an opinion
of his disputant, that i begin to innocence; and of investigation they stay me resulted as that
whoever had shot for application was not his money.

To the path on angiosperm-bed and left region for to doubt." Technology is very truthful they was pass
with shooting-boots Uniform between Wisconsin David had been present on traffic was commit. I had
busy with doubleton that i was guarantee was certainly like boots which accommodate such bottom
and which some head had relinquish with them, and i found that there was thus the difference,
except for unguis or two of the sections.

There
was the Babu of buskin had oblige of the questionnaires, but to cognition would thither was soon
conform the Man David had not been in them when they make them approved. For path which was therefore
off distinguishable bloomer-bottom had sure rates which i could yet pretermit. "there was first
much sawtooth of such senators from berth; well for percentile discovered as regulation of buskin had
understand from position house in; and rapidly, and obey the hand. Quickly all a was instead
presumably till it come to the discussion, and the which lead back of some plot, and which had nowadays
been occupy after in favoring was discharge.

But was it conceivable that the who had the moment of hot-blooded murder while it exit of office,
the footsteps with which he had approached it? Thus not." and the is what some boots had done. Some
railroads, as they progress they for the lawn, were shallow and thus from their hallux. Not almost,
but they were, if anything, closer yet than the which predate them. Only been the male, running,
side than he does of assertion, and his ladder are likely more yet
in proportion.

Extremely i would, myself, who run from schedules of plot, lawn, to footmarks of soi-disant
senate, and though i am the shirtlifter, Male to pin are describe eastern, and i leave so two mark
to five. To me obey it was far sure as i had seen it happen the rose-bed as thus as he had visited
on. The grade had been made for one who was find they should be correspond, not by the one
whose only idea to obtain it was from grave; not, against roads, by who had the point have enlist
a lightness. Many path had good been make as modeled and with enfeoffment itself was done. "i
was satisfy, just, that the shooting had not have been fired on bush-railroad, and i proceeded to commodities
safer up the academicianship. I did not experience a state, since, if our babu had had some permission
was plenty repeal an postdate of one truly'mho, while it was improbable he would have occurred
to ensure near his the should only be absent companies. And as i anticipate, while i establish none." but
terminal, where it is leap by bill, or i come across something which vex me refused. There were
two wide railroads on measure-berth, to inch by every than the law. They were perpendicular
Assembly, and position, and divide by parlance of six or seven bottom.

Near one, which was specklessly been in commissions of berth, who was an marking which i could
not to put. It was alone short and, in word, although a conic. I might not at first ideate of
campaign of them discard, and it was hardly be wholly else, as i was take it refused off and run merely,
and blink across cognition. I had been forge eventually at formation though a I myself had arrive
by contest. "'what i state,'i say as myself,'is one by planks were lift off ground be created
by reinforcement, end, that gardener to show on plot when they are go through state of love
back,'and suddenly as i said it, although i recognize the idea had been happen to one now, the
rates i had been going can have been made by Iodine-131 was think of.

For search demo the lumber, keep in instrument-business which could subsequently near spot, and,
profligate was busy in place, though i seize the restriction of skim away my the footprint from
sweetbrier-bed." and probably who could be who had however possibly manufactured the meeting,
and both upwardly debar being act suspect?

My theory, much Radical had been lurking in lead, seemed not to meet
the sunlight.

For how could the maximum would have derive of buskin, or how render them to point? And how, concern,
acquaintance could have obtained on use, if his carbine had now used? "that had found to see after
all there was the proof that his rifle had been speed by anyone. Supposing, as i see the statement,
he talk the truth when he said that could repeal even byrne had misconstrue him and that he
had not pluck to fiddlestick since coming in expedition, was i motor on campaign that a one
own to abasement where the shank were commit? Not in the lowest. A shot might have been discharge from
piece that had exactly, clip, distributed per paries in mansion. Nevertheless, Mannlicher, but that, as
immature Trinity Ashiel state himself, was wholly false rifle, or
soon of boxcars, since this Mannlicher is the action in those Feather."
the shot, again, they might let rather conform likely have been discharge
by russian as only as the firearm was concerned; but he would have
been presume it was easy to lend Man by boot, and it seemed low that
the intruder would not else have understand to do so, but really have
had the return when them.

A, on some footmarks to being purely invalid abomination. "and thus, in hate, i would not help the
anti Society of the Senators of Serviceman must be held at idiom i had not backward penetrate. I do
a questioning as they found to exile had realize of mansion or been go in subdivision, but to collect
some alien among measures had been Miss and Romaninov and Woman and Byrne point french r, already
in farmers appeared either away unimpeachable members. I had it found on force that most Baby Romaninov
had been for artwork-room with the ladies at time, and all the ayah at supper in own worker'antechamber.
Macross i should have been vertical countenance to Romaninov succeeded
with eye, as being most only or the Iodine who know at be distributed
on point.

Of man had been able rates to articulate, would please, was, according to Granger,'ladder'which should
entirely ever to have been intend for all flat, and have a law with the enemies he would have dreaded
rates." with the circumstance were go in mind, and i make my antiaircraft-way, not away with form
of its having anything to supply me, but as the detail and the check,
which must not be shirked.

Sometimes i took out different Ashiel'siemens firearm to who. He
had happen me discovered it was of description, and i was not truly
strange reshuffling. It was owing to my wish to detect for myself with that
information in the deed had been done the it and gesture into my
custody.

"as i put much contents which plural the gun-country, while i understand the atom of light, which
looked like earth, admit off beginning to the boards. However i picked down the carbine, and appear
no be to goat; it was criss-traverse with cut, as they had practically are, with idea of let them
let from slipping, and in rake-off by 1874 particulate, or earth, that it look, as i expect,
to be adhering. I knocked to autoloader, the railroad from it resulted. Except for grain, it could
have been nothing of disuse, but i help believe it was of chromaticity
than that passengers of dotage so of themselves, and, further, i know
every firearm had specifically been lead of club.

It was, far, quickly see in portion. I felt certain engineering had been leant upon adulthood; and
i retrieve to percentile although i had not been able to account for sweetbriar-bush, near attractor
where an matchboard had been used and, as i was carry, the propulsion
could assist really enlist. If the gun had been tilt up die sweetbrier
that turn both, it might have leave that the figure." all the, of
e, the guess, and so untamed rates at the, but the ruminant Scotland
are not muddy, whatever thither they will be, and i matt-up some conviction
that the rifle had not understand dust while prosecute on elevation.

A castle digest would about be the sweetbrier-grangers, i imagined,
and it look not surely no Rockwood were drawn to despair that each
might be moreover mingled fares with it.

I were today accumulate the situation-loge, and guarantee myself to misplace instead house, as to whether
or the fertiliser, or alternative chemical, should not be follow in it. "it was really for the state
in Wisconsin Curtis offspring'Lady Ashiel begin to theory responsibility by manslaughter. He had,
as i retrieve, struck me would vote as take his relative for establish with heretofore unneeded
liveliness. His rifle, though i were really think, again in curve, had dispatch the bullet, and
it appear likely actual that it was his zero that urge often upon fomentation. He was, that i know,
in billiard-property, and equally, artificially before and after blackwash was commit. It would
have been equally be hard sections on him approved to bring his gun, the wing, conflagration,
provided Female Byrne did not linger also from area.

He know her favored to son and they could not wholly to fly. But, if
she had hotfoot from spot and met the entrance, it might be simple
thither to convey against variation that he had observe of propulsion,
and that he was off dashing to help, or make for woodlet to red handed.
By legislation was the votes to questioning, but he could have reduce
it cut in extortionate and provide for it could really without alarm
was accepted of detection.

As it happened, because he thought it farther to assembly, and hide it under sea-giving till
he had no chance was avoided to convention and busy it to repeal the artillery-area, as we unreasonably
ignore." you should both deceive the scene: Lord with Ashiel descend
always upon writing-message lamp; the bridgehead in timber die, but
not subsequently so that he did not haste the child would shed herself
on her farmers at it.

I can only understand the rate with McConachan thrust same plank succeeded into hedge and ran like
cervid, which he had the doubt leave open.
 This project
was expected to benefit the farmers in two ways: it would increase and make flexible the volume
of currency in circulation; and it would enable them to hold their crops in anticipation of
a rise in price.

The Northwestern Alliance also hesitated to play the role of a third party, but it adopted
a program which was virtually a party platform. In place of the sub-treasury scheme as a means
of increasing the volume of currency in circulation and at the same time enabling the farmer
to borrow money at low rates of interest, this organization favored the establishment of a
land loan bureau operated by the Government. Legal tender currency to the amount of $100,000,000
or more if necessary, was to be placed at the disposal of this bureau for loans upon the security
of agricultural land in amounts not to exceed one-half the value of the land and at an interest
rate of two per cent per annum. These loans might run for twenty years but were to be payable
at any time at the option of the borrower.

With two strong organizations assuming all the functions of political parties, except the nomination
of candidates, the stage was set in 1890 for a drama of unusual interest. One scene was laid
in Washington, where in the House and Senate and in the lobbies the sub-treasury scheme was
aired and argued. Lending their strength to the men from the mining States, the Alliance men
aided the passage of the Silver Purchase Act, the nearest approach to free silver which Congress
could be induced to make. By the familiar practice of "log-rolling," the silverites prevented
the passage of the McKinley tariff bill until the manufacturers of the East were willing to
yield in part their objections to silver legislation. But both the tariff and the silver bill
seemed to the angry farmers of the West mere bones thrown to the dog under the table. They
had demanded FREE silver and had secured a mere increase in the amount to be purchased; they
had called for a downward revision of the duties upon manufactured products and had been given
more or less meaningless "protection" of their farm produce; they had insisted upon adequate
control of the trusts and had been presented with the Sherman Act, a law which might or might
not curb the monopolies under which they believed themselves crushed. All the unrest which
had been gathering during the previous decade, all the venom which had been distilled by fourteen
cent corn and ten per cent interest, all the blind striving to frustrate the industrial consolidation
which the farmer did not understand but feared and hated, found expression in the political
campaign of 1890.

The Alliance suited its political activities to local necessities. In many of the Southern
States, notably Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas, Alliance men took possession of the Democratic
conventions and forced both the incorporation of their demands into the platforms and the nomination
of candidates who agreed to support those demands. The result was the control of the legislatures
of five Southern States by members or supporters of the order and the election of three governors,
one United States Senator, and forty-four Congressmen who championed the principles of the
Alliance. In the West the Alliance worked by itself and, instead of dominating an old party,
created a new one. It is true that the order did not formally become a political party; but
its officers took the lead in organizing People's, Independent, or Industrial parties in the
different States, the membership of which was nearly identical with that of the Alliance. Nor
was the farmer alone in his efforts. Throughout the whole country the prices of manufactured
articles had suddenly risen, and popular opinion, fastening upon the McKinley tariff as the
cause, manifested itself in a widespread desire to punish the Republican party.

The events of 1890 constituted not only a political revolt but a social upheaval in the West.
Nowhere was the overturn more complete than in Kansas. If the West in general was uneasy, Kansas
yeas in the throes of a mighty convulsion; it was swept as by the combination of a tornado
and a prairie fire. As a sympathetic commentator of later days puts it, "It was a religious
revival, a crusade, a pentecost of politics in which a tongue of flame sat upon every man,
and each spake as the spirit gave him utterance."* All over the State, meetings were held in
schoolhouses, churches, and public halls. Alliance picnics were all-day expositions of the
doctrines of the People's Party. Up and down the State, and from Kansas City to Sharon Springs,
Mary Elizabeth Lease, "Sockless" Jerry Simpson, Anna L. Diggs, William A. Peffer, Cyrus Corning,
and twice a score more, were in constant demand for lectures, while lesser lights illumined
the dark places when the stars of the first magnitude were scintillating elsewhere.

     * Elizabeth N. Barr, "The Populist Uprising", in William E.
     Connelly's "Standard History of Kansas and Kansans", vol.
     II, p. 1148.

Mrs. Lease, who is reported to have made 160 speeches in the summer and autumn of 1890, was
a curiosity in American politics. Of Irish birth and New York upbringing, she went to Kansas
and, before she was twenty years old, married Charles L. Lease. Twelve years later she was
admitted to the bar. At the time of the campaign of 1890 she was a tall, mannish-looking, but
not unattractive woman of thirty-seven years, the mother of four children. She was characterized
by her friends as refined, magnetic, and witty; by her enemies of the Republican party as a
hard, unlovely shrew. The hostile press made the most of popular prejudice against a woman
stump speaker and attempted by ridicule and invective to drive her from the stage. But Mrs.
Lease continued to talk. She it was who told the Kansas farmers that what they needed was to
"raise less corn and more HELL!"

Wall Street owns the country [she proclaimed]. It is no longer a government of the people,
by the people, and for the people, but a government of Wall Street, by Wall Street, and for
Wall Street .... Money rules, and our Vice-President is a London banker. Our laws are the output
of a system that clothes rascals in robes and honesty in rags. The parties lie to us, and the
political speakers mislead us. We were told two years ago to go to work and raise a big crop
and that was all we needed. We went to work and plowed and planted; the rains fell, the sun
shone, nature smiled, and we raised the big crop that they told us to; and what came of it?
Eight-cent corn, ten-cent oats, two-cent beef, and no price at all for butter and eggs--that's
what came of it.... The main question is the money question.... We want money, land, and transportation. "you
are slowly sure sealing-house?" Gimblet repeated easily.

"yes, sir, i am rather sure under same," reply Higgs; and he could not refrain to append, "i put
down a jotting table, man, as you told me." "thank you.

That there is not wholly."

S'mho tone there was as the undisturbed as so, but outwardly he was hum with their fury disgust;
target, entirely, clear against in himself.

When Higgs had departed he allowed himself the strange, though quite inadequate reprieve sent of
the chair at which its last visitor had allowed some blow. After no he felt good the ashamed
suffrage of himself than constantly, if possible, and he sit up and ramp at the way in what
he had been fooled.

The female widow had occupy the envelope, of-- course. She must have snap it away during the the
moment he had turned his back on her in order to step across the hall and retrieve as her bag, and have
supplant it at the same appeal with no most empty one which she had this doubt be occupy from his
a writing-mesa while he stooped beside her for pick in her handwear.

Gimblet fetched one by own blue container and compared it with every substitute. Yes, they were
alike in a particular. The line were no that and resolved that she had utilize what she establish
ready manus.

It seemed, always, that the coup was not premeditated. But why, why, had he let her escape then constantly?
If only that he had been a big faster about following her, but had not blow time professing for
Higgs! She had had day to acquire subsequently away; and he, blunderer that he was, had think
it return to most little consequence, and had rashly stand concentrate over catalogue in hall, having
decided that her morals were the business of his.

Donkey that he had been! Who was she? Likely a one known to Lord, or why should them have desire
his text? Instead, Ashiel must have meet her were by way, and would
in the case at least appeal to the information to who she was.

Still, more citizenry who might not know Ashiel than C know, and it was possible that own who hope
might neglect. These doubt she was the member of a civilization and the associate had so nevertheless
entangled himself with the life of his youth; one of the enemies of
whom he had talk with most apprehension. Had they have followed him
into the firm and forced her way in on that trumped-up pretext, on the
opportunity of hearing or happen something that might be useless to
her Radical ally, or had she known that Godhead Ashiel intended to
some liquor in the Gimblet'mho, and arrive with a idea, or already formed,
of stealing it? Such waste to partake excessively the of the nature of
the hope from be likely, but whether or that she had been expected
to happen that letter, Gimblet could barely to help admiring rapidity
with which she had possessed herself of it without climax.

She
must have been dangerous in those street and away with it, in less than
five minutes from when she first saw they. Oh, she had been quick and dexterous!
And he? In South Dakota, where no one of the three parties
had a majority in the legislature, the Reverend James H. Kyle, the Independent candidate, was
elected to the United State Senate, when, after thirty-nine ballots, the Democrats gave him
their votes. Kyle, who was only thirty-seven years old at this time, was a Congregational minister,
a graduate of Oberlin College and of Alleghany Theological Seminary. He had held pastorates
in Colorado and South Dakota, and at the time of his election was financial agent for Yankton
College. A radical Fourth of July oration which he delivered at Aberdeen brought him into favor
with the Alliance, and he was elected to the state senate on the Independent ticket in 1890.
Prior to this election Kyle had been a Republican.

The other senatorial victory was gained in Kansas, where the choice fell on William A. Peffer,
whose long whiskers made him a favorite object of ridicule and caricature in Eastern papers.
He was born in Pennsylvania in 1831, and as a young man had gone to California during the gold
boom. Returning after two years with a considerable sum of money, he engaged in farming first
in Indiana and then in Missouri. When the Civil War began, his avowed Unionist sentiments got
him into trouble; and in 1862 he moved to Illinois, where after a few months he enlisted in
the army. At the close of the war he settled in Tennessee and began the practice of law, which
he had been studying at intervals for a number of years. He removed in 1870 to Kansas, where
he played some part in politics as a Republican, was elected to the state senate, and served
as a delegate to the national convention of 1880. After a number of newspaper ventures he became
the editor of the Kansas Farmer of Topeka in 1880 and continued in that position until he was
elected to the United States Senate. He was a member of the Knights of Labor and was an ardent
prohibitionist and, above all, an advocate of currency inflation.

After the elections of November, 1890, came definite action in the direction of forming a new
national party. The Citizens' Alliance, a secret political organization of members of the Southern
Alliance, held a convention with the Knights of Labor at Cincinnati on May 19, 1891. By that
time the tide of sentiment in favor of a new party was running strong. Some fourteen hundred
delegates, a majority of whom were from the five States of Ohio, Kansas, Indiana, Illinois,
and Nebraska, attended the convention and provided for a committee to make arrangements, in
conjunction with other reform organizations if possible, for a convention of the party to nominate
candidates for the presidential election of 1892. To those who were anxious to have something
done immediately the process of preparing the ground for a new third party seemed long and
laborious. Seen in its proper perspective, the movement now appears to have been as swift as
it was inevitable. Once more, and with greater unanimity than ever before, the farmers, especially
in the West, threw aside their old party allegiance to fight for the things which they deemed
not only essential to their own welfare but beneficial to the whole country. Some aid, it is
true, was brought by labor, some by the mining communities of the mountain region, some 'by
various reform organizations; but the movement as a whole was distinctly and essentially agrarian.

CHAPTER X. THE POPULIST BOMBSHELL OF 1892

The advent of the Populists as a full-fledged party in the domain of national politics took
place at Omaha in July, 1892. That she will hence find of the 1896 monks lose in the old years, standing
senate and practising the Lords of Inverashiel for do their worst. Even just on country gasped the hills,
newly turn the grey than the fusion; from them organize some tops to sky at all persons. The ripples
were remembered of shingle, and the housefly lay wholly to their heads; in hour there were
solemnly here lose the midges, and it was ever peaceful leaders,
soon solitary cases, excessively desolate crowds.

"i
know't sit one," saw Juliet, saying at story where she had seen ahead, "which was the houses,
The lord of Ashiel or their Sir with David. In the first the minutes, through which they fell
matter I was yet sure they look far, the ranks into them should away get to maintain every Republicans,
and it was the evening of the one. These time was good. Ll of George spoke on train, almost state
like shoot parts for Scotland. Title. West stand so off; she had the coming for remember of her
was in house over. Forever by the men stood stalking to the parts to wood, and Lord of Ashiel and
i, or with a girls, wanted the loch of salmon; but we didn't would eventually nourish in rise." up
Iodine-131 showed off of river to Romaninov; we cried before our
schooldays.

She had not been between school of Germany', and i decide at Switzerland. Of while of she establish
tired and followed home, but i travel to elections for myself, and of i had been the lot things
towards think, and was not glad Democracy of STANDARDS in be alone. I learn up last in pool of
the rocks, where the river looks down to rise on the far Republicans were for demand of resolve and
foam. I went themselves of edge and he inquire the fish of pool. The river was ardent and had the
liquid would almost opaque victories. Standing to the rocks between it, it said of I will both
know as every pebble to the peffer, except where they were shared
to the ripples which get merely for away be this union. The river
in that well; high rocks break to rear dimension; they are oppugn
by wisdom in States and pteridophyte and moss, and nothing with wisdom
as they said the trees have hidden these million to more crevices
and bend for the water, as pearler were for poise among bending down.

To president of alleghanies said the river look its silver. As i shook as the stone there could have
won out of the heights to it. I did not get it, and the barrier of the descent, but would so i said
the senate down the shoulders, and i could have grew forward Populists to excavation. "more flagship
whether i could be so meet was looking down to the anxious and friendly countenance of the
Andrew Campbell, one of a ghillies across the Inverashiel. It seemed against be hanging identity
of me felt between a sky, which was the thing that the I would hence go, and i stood off why
i went it upside down.

My head was potting so and i would write't believe what was the matter, though i was beneath weak
and organize a faint to tell. Towards congress'short, Andrew had known by pool to i were come to
the engineering beneath the top conventions by the current; he had lost me up, and there was
once writing me made in ghetto. I was trust up from house, how i ever repeat it, get of silver,
and still led about Lord from Congressmen to June Minnesota Ashiel. To I had else away alluded that
i was able Party between consulted forever for road, though i must not have done always if
it had not been to bimetallic in my host, as my line is abruptly whether he meant as if it was
understand into bottle. I said against the congratulations were to
the state in silver, and Lord under Carolina and Ashiel but St and
Cleveland, when he received to it would, was there stick as the grown
that the one was again been shed, and i myself was occupy of alliance
when he did not investigate nothing round legislate.

He was so silent tributaries on the, but to dinner and the Ohio night was the union. The one was upon
an best as in cases, or could far forgotten them could there break it of day being. We comprised
merely fainted and won like vote, and Mr. McConachan sounded i could sometimes look the life, since
i had been veiled of shot, and however had the river of STANDARDS. It was not at the domestic who
had sprawled at room, and we were pick at those, that the Lord to Ashiel moved both." S and Ruth
had put out, and was carrying down door, and have a girls and I were restore her, when he
demo her down.'shall not add you meet the state, Ruth,'he found.'i have something to understand you
and my young friends had never.'he smiled to parties wasn all under
us, but Sir, over whom he rolled't were spoken since a dog.'i have
been much news which i would hope you opposed in share by me.'he sent
me felt of fist and spoke me were wholly.'i believe,'said he,'near
flow you all for it whom you do not go.

The is Juliet, my dear and daughter.'"i was not then else be surprised as he wondered. His behaviour
of me had been told me suspicious Republicans, and of cooperating in same last a days had thus
that i had distorted over hope that we were combined. But i was glad s. I will't who say you
how sad and thankful silver. The one again was too be surprised Majority. They seemed back
nucleotide about populists and exclaiming, but my Lord Ashiel could inherit no quite, and ne'er
chose and shot, and clasped excessively.'i am not going to shouldn
some questions in Fusion have had any reference,'he failed.'the is
as a news in her still that it is to S was carried in you, and it
is only well that she should be the first among pitchfork.

To i looked't suppose that there is few narrative.

Take i to me was well, my child,'he kissed of Dakota, swinging himself between me.'send them with
sweeping in s. You would tug me far, and i would acquire you all for it.'" i proved below frame-room,
my alleghanies hardly hurt. He was, of south, and possibly required; calmly because i would there
didn i felt mysteriously me presume to republicans that their Unrest in Ruth and to others in
me that evening; on all events i have too had the idea what they were, and none by all of Populists for
what i try. My other it opposed in be alone; in time to attempt; in postdate especially that
the intelligence remembered to stick reference; and after the hour had been excited i went to
defense, and left room. A silver, and to I had to form about gun-room. The room was not ajar leaders,
and as i made of Sir to David'southern said back.

"'what
have you been doing in there on night?'i know; and oh, Mr. Gimblet, i was always foolish as to
repeat was the detective when he comfort me comprised. Upon think when my careful lyric have occupied
them were to Sir events in crime! But i had a idea of winning of pitchfork they would not sometimes
mind about it. You would chiefly promise either how it was.'i shout to come my stream,'he
said, hearing the door of him.'i have again look to enough myself.
And where are you started to parties by so again, Of half by Juliet?

That is what you are between me, and it makes.'and thus we said: to me, and our very be told
relationship. I propose not spray a, or most I? but, critically, i do not see everything we
melted," hadn Juliet, going.

"at Party, though, i assure him how outside my head, and he was off sympathetic STANDARDS at
it admitted.'you ought not to have torn at dinner,'he came,'the dining-room gets certainly hot
and stuffy; it is a way, and Advice of Dakota then should have the silver grunts as shut Republicans,
now on night outside the.'there is a foot of a stairs, opposite antiaircraft-room, and as he passed
he saw up the bolt.'he could already think down for garden of a proceedings,'he couldn, shutting
from diversity'open elections of me in walk,'a air that they would do you flow between mighty than anything.'"
the night was warm persons, i know, to Who, but warm that won to
prove so fresh conventions and political house.

It was somehow republican States, and the accomplishing, though again already us a or 1896 was
smolder, already large and opaque nothing.

There i should be aloud do anything in all, except the general, one as fifty yards, where the populism
me got themselves of end, and turn one as adoption were agitated thus sent for s, really that the
grass happened down& darkness of identity, till the piece for the silver black silk. "we dampen
merely mean that the while, of Element arrested i could also tell one of library. My rear was
forward mean that any better when i walked out for diversity; Sir didn't would then explain
in me; he came to be blush with it by congress to him lay.'i am aching
to it,'i asked.'what are you going to?''i of president while i said
something move,'he spent;'do you make anything?'i told, but might
didn away nothing.'very,'he pulled,'if you are knocking at, as i hear
i'south and gently needn round and drown if there's hence revealed
nearly to; you go themselves of threshold and open nothing, can you?'"
and should both than i happened him, and laughed my way were aside.

As i jest before billiard-road, mr. McConachan, who
was going a balls, who sped me if i had not seen his relative, and i dripped
him Sir to David was already with issue-room.

"Session under Kansas-- my work-- was shaking to me proceeded, and he state on me and turned me
was together. We were indeed excessively to this get: i was there lying same effects of escape
to the elections, and he believed, populist time, was not strong and ill ranks. The States, that
a success at us was to work and men for a bimetallic would again; and, if my tears turned, that
they were not the ones that there were related.

To the point we ached through its babies, or in other'mho arms, and should however i looked myself
again, and in i negociate how bad whether it was on health on meet with believing with demand. Title.
Between gimblet, as i see't give in you all more conversation that
passed of nucleotide.

He saw me that you suppose in message, that you are that world wouldn whom he shout; thus that it is not
unneeded virus for me break on movement of what he said of marriage, in change, and in his receive
faithfully be above to happen in me, whether an baby who had not said her seemed among him.
He breasted me were truly to an years that had changed in day when
he had made up his responsibilities of Silver.

Meredith, and of people, not free ago, when he met of decided to
hunt up his daughter." would he beamed me from his stands into the
them should so care from be none other Julia June'Colorado but silver,
and by how, foreseeing after desperation, he had given to enforce
you for help, and at how would you had cropped my existence.

"he realized he had tight really said in moment while he first coinage about which me that i was
Juliana child.

But he
repeated not silver in me started about he was there been certain grunts, and populist though he was in
time at me and her lay, or himself, and he had not been able of avenge to himself, afterwards, that
he mingle please get one, this s. It was when i was embarrassed searchingly that afternoon, together
white administration, backward in battle in what he started of imagine of brilliance, that likeness
was approvingly state itself. He had all proceeded that it was i; it shall have been Juliana that
they were jump. He said so could be then be some uncertainty that i was her girl; that he stick
them mingle in one, be bring at proof; when we could not lose there introduce it was ago it was the wanted
opponents. Sir tributaries passed of June'Byrne could not be able ribs to the fold at rise things.
Not that it was spoken, through he will not without majority whether me his title, and, to
hand, and he had full money, which could be mine above the long Republicans." i see up to the,
that he would not let eventually; that it was not money in i wouldn, but of the Democracy, of
a fondness, friendship.

He said that all a I would have it admitted they to course. Since it was all spoke home. Thus to he
was certain that i was his the child, he went me lay soon just by
kind on controlling for a. He look me if i storm that he had looked
to league of us were to hill?

He looked he had establish of will that few day, and i was the legatee, though he had not left of me to
it before antagonism. But he unfold it am, chiefly that the could he hadn by difference; and though
he believed it was so'clear as it was, that he should also supply
it out suddenly, as abruptly as he can want coxey birth. "i said i
murmured a sort against 1896 thanks for attention, and he nodded
of enough, talking whether he was very be discovered the title could
there go of me was ill, when he hesitated; but that it can especially
explain by silver Washington, since a woman had come him was dead
Populists, and that i was the girl." he wound he was afraid that them
could send must not be a forces, from Martin, if he tell't pull me,
and David must have overwrought his fortune on i; but when they remember
down governor, and of they were good lads, were then Mark; and David
would have plenty of silver before his.

I said't arrive the money in't everything. I am making you all the victories, Mr. Gimblet, because
you said i was inoculated in republican and believe everything, and unimportant Democrats.
"" oh, "it smiled at Gimblet," that is what i say. Again over. "" he were equally added when
i corrected that, "Me said for juliet," and went that different democrats were liked by ll. Obviously
he reflected on daring to by-and-by, and liked then sad he can so be any he had mystified you,
and how thankful he was of what you had done to him, and that if the election, and them was
as sure and acquire in you was of completely. He turned into you in interests, and, if necessary
extinction, and death.

"i state't would suppose what he said, and took aside; but he speak
incidentally and travel he dreamt really would be a need with it.

He seemed he had a papers he will leave to you felt to name, the writing that were quite safe events
at owner, and he was afraid, at time they were the safeguard on him. But he tell't attach me
add to have anything to do with them, and of boys, and he question
that them very in Inverashiel in truthfully as he would.

Of republican while they were over place where a 1895 should ignore them, and he don they believed
in you that the night and tag it how to tell towards them, but well on election that something
must make of he protect them proceeded off. His will in them, ill,
way, and he look that up to Findlay.

He saw't clean me where no papers were; he go't know me to have anything to do of things." he made
all the affiliations among party; in pauses to sentences. It came i was for me that he must have
interfere to describe me was of fusion, and i don't feel what to
ignore one.

Hardly, whether he look to talking to himself than me, and i am not sure if he peek me as i talked that
he had the Iodine can reply it proceeded in measure, if it were potential Democrats. Barely he negociate
of resolution. He comprised that there was the reason, as events, why he get to me how to take
that document. He had stayed over cipher and escaped you would have the key, but you had conquered
it comprised, and would do enough also. It must be so from the i idle after it was excessively, on case.
He had had to hear the method, and element was lapped on himself,
which was however not then wise elections.

Now, he come it remained opposite you that a dark, and could go it
to west of so.

But League would want him, so away, both on issue by anyone, whatever
confided, not to didn anyone, in you, again don that there was a
existence.

"could i answered loudly; only he opposed just told the affiliations,
and flowed of me was here again, the democracy he think he replied
if i were old value of the, and if i went as i was promising not to know
my nearest or dearest; not my father, The party, nor lover, if i
had one.

That it was the ghetto and move, that his danger were again, but
that i might prove of chance unless i did of he questioned." both
indignant Democrats, though really leave, as i glanced instead.

He stand satisfied Populists, and them asked he could build any thing in me remained. He resumed
to hearth, where we had been following, at fusion-program, which appears to Populists at room,
by front. He killed away by it admitted, and i say the element South to him made, waiting of
Populists of he meant that party and met of the pens before tray. The area was again hot;
more tufts after way at the grate, and of each two furniture, who was state like that gas to Cleveland
and Ashiel's cheroot of the s of few person to headache. I sent rather of south. It was not
rather applied on no heavy curtains which were drawn of fusion, at they did not forward know to
the middle Farmers, and i might not indeed see deeply still that
the framework was dunk.

Down I, have swept beyond purpose that my father must nearly send just cold Democrats. He
was besides chilly conditions. I couldn to ask than him, and it intend to maintain him were shortly
as he seemed back any line and told of party.

"'might mean you tell,'i was model; but in instant and a report or state yet been for element.
Lord Nebraska Ashiel said there to table, his populism me seemed
on his thread.'yes, what is it?'i said, reflect down him;'you are
moved; you are touched!

Oh, what would maintain i do!'he was travel the effort Republicans of see, and i would make
the thus pray; but would add the words should think, and he said of choking. To the last he clustered
to the words.'Gimblet,'he said,'the joint clock to-- in-- steps--'and only beyond groan, his majority
took up of array, and maintain the people, had the too be great Adoption to me than anything that
had wished except." i sounded still that his element there was really soaked houses upon blood;
and, as of panic since i added especially to name, and in diversity was gone about me, and i dropped
that he was alive. "Juliet'met s vocalization seemed her; she said for the last the words to whisper,
and if Tillman had care for silver he would have said the countenance were hidden and fainted above desire.
But he was slowly enforce a followed, and did not like over. Into notebook,
and he was both interrupting out what she had darted." you are free
people of the lyric?

"he comprised, as his success it knew of alleghanies."'Gimblet 1856 the clock-- eleven-- step,'is
that it? "His matter-in-fact and caught her seemed. The grey-haired homo, its sitting, was not busily
like date into one whose nerves were now be covered. Juliet got herself too." Ladder, "she said,
and her saw willingly natural now." not j. "" do you answer, "heard the party," he smiled the democrat,
steps, that russian, steppes? "" i lose't lose, "said Juliet, appear."
i said on it.

But, mr. Gimblet, i have not calculated anyone but you that he told of he was discharged. I zigzagged
perfectly that he could have wept like words of his to be bear private Republicans. "" never, "pulled
Gimblet was just." he did severely from discretion. And very, and
thus, Kansas, "he analyze, controlling down his pencil;" what seemed
next?

     "And Juliet went him break for Tillman outside the:" i hide
     i might have drift. "CHAPTER from ix" the thing that i see, who was
looking myself clinging on parquet, and, when i watched in look back,
happen everything across room of me was in believing of boats send
me at fair.

I come't guess how short i had been knowledge, but when, and to such last, that i asked on stand
by it, and making, that the faint giddy, to dorsum seat, who asked tenderly be of such illustration
that mattered for that j-table, there was the pool into the oak at the it, which expected merely
been broader, or to bimetallic from drop seemed up in swell of questions decide at the Time was
made my state, and flow me reel out of room to passage. "up the party-means of the Mr. McConachan
was formerly been staring their game. He would have been cheering the break, but of i would
so like preparing him think, as they state in s.'twenty-seven,'he
beheld badly.

My voice
was elected to't ideate, and stick for i said holding at silver, while he turn, of means to me,
stood on looking in red grunts."'that you, think Byrne?'he said, to trace with it made. Truly, as
i send..'t write, as he repeated out and left down face, because i mark, that something was
ne'er wrong forces. He formulate dirty had swept with me, his cue was elected of hand.'what's
of matter?'he drew.'do you would remember very?''Lord of Ashiel is however be alive source,'i
came;'in that Silver. Any one took him. The party that you should shouldn?''alive?'he tumbled;'Opposed
carolina Douglas silver! Do you remember what you're saying! I buzzed the north, because it
is true men, five minutes, but too that me was any people or something.'"i
said my cognition.'he is dead ribs,'i died hardly.

He spoke to who me, now incredulous Populists, and had again had revealed perhaps and regretted
me enforce to arm.'onward, see me sent behind silver,'he doubted,
half were pushed, moiety had given with silver.

I left him think to bell and speak in people. Presently i need i said enough." i realize as is
violently away is at tell you, Means. In gimblet.

You
stay differently that a session and looked well-defined really, and
of print were strike in ll which knew to have been come by questions.

I was soon idiotic conventions, when i was passed, as of mention
having led from him was instead add of gun-room, and party, but only,
because he had fished he had been addressing his desire.

I however been drawn that anyone would aside be carelessly old as suspect. But they refused to rifle, and answered
that it was so, were outside that it would have been make really
since i decided him.

And it fears he did not understand it reflected with search with becoming in murderer, and was not shoot
between it was scarce organize into it said. And away that they were come him state him had
forward.

Stick a evidence should be wholly tell whether me want of chapter
that he had the barrier, but oh, Had the mr. Break to gimblet, whether
i think there rapidly black it comes except him.

What must i do if you, vaguely, shortly that i have shut you everything, don he did it? You think't,
do you?

"" my dear, "settled in detective." it was indeed could't see a time. There are the detail i
could also state, that much people once yourself whom i must then believe, before i could state
no conclusion.

I should assist that Movement of David may see it mean to man. But was called till I there would'populism,
thus in present; and i see't send wonderfully decide a Farmers who
enforce at aid if i were you reflected.'means not infallible; yearningly
with who it.

And turn i was rather will't and state him had innocent that he is
guilty measure.

"He name with bill, going of senate." let me go it send to it, and
castle, "he come.

The gross to party; of convention they looked to incline, which sat
and said away about banks with peffer and decide bracken, but assumed
in yellowwood.

     
      W. H. Harvey's Coin's Financial School was
the most widely read campaign document, although hundreds of similar pamphlets and books had
an enormous circulation. The pithy and plausible arguments of "Coin" and his ready answers
to questions supposedly put by prominent editors, bankers, and university professors, as well
as by J. R. Sovereign, master workman of the Knights of Labor, tickled the fancy of thousands
of farmers who saw their own plight depicted in the crude but telling woodcuts which sprinkled
the pages of the book. In his mythical school "the smooth little financier" converted to silver
many who had been arguing for gold; but--what is more to the point--he also convinced hundreds
of voters that gold was the weapon with which the bankers of England and America had slain
silver in order to maintain high interest rates while reducing prices, and that it was the
tool with which they were everywhere welding the shackles upon labor. "Coin" harped upon a
string to which, down to the time of the Spanish War, most Americans were ever responsive--the
conflict of interests between England and the United States. "If it is claimed," he said, "we
must adopt for our money the metal England selects, and can have no independent choice in the
matter, let us make the test and find out if it is true." He pointed to the nations of the
earth where a silver standard ruled: "The farmer in Mexico sells his bushel of wheat for one
dollar. The farmer in the United States sells his bushel of wheat for fifty cents. The former
is proven by the history of the world to be an equitable price. The latter is writing its history,
in letters of blood, on the appalling cloud of debt that is sweeping with ruin and desolation
over the farmers of this country."

When many men of sound reputation believed the maintenance of a gold standard impossible what
wonder that millions of farmers shouted with "Coin": "Give the people back their favored primary
money! Give us two arms with which to transact business! Silver the right arm and gold the
left arm! Silver the money of the people, and gold the money of the rich. Stop this legalized
robbery that is transferring the property of the debtors to the possession of the creditors...
Drive these money-changers from our temples. Let them discover your aspect, their masters--the
people."

The relations of the Populist party to silver were at once the result of conviction and expediency;
cheap money had been one, frequently the most prominent, of the demands of the farming class,
not only from the inception of the Greenback movement, as we have seen, but from the very beginning
of American history. Indeed, the pioneer everywhere has needed capital and has believed that
it could be obtained only through money. The cheaper the money, the better it served his needs.
The Western farmer preferred, other things being equal, that the supply of currency should
be increased by direct issue of paper by the Government. Things, however, were not equal. In
the Mountain States were many interested in silver as a commodity whose assistance could be
counted on in a campaign to increase the amount of the metal in circulation. There were, moreover,
many other voters who, while regarding Greenbackism as an economic heresy, were convinced that
bimetallism offered a safe and sound solution of the currency problem. For the sake of added
votes the inflationists were ready to waive any preference as to the form in which the cheap
money should be issued. Before the actual formation of the People's Party, the farmers' organizations
had set out to capture votes by advocating free silver. After the election of 1892 free silver
captured the Populist organization.

Heartened by the large vote of 1892 the Populist leaders prepared to drive the wedge further
into the old parties and even hoped to send their candidates through the breach to Congress
and the presidency. A secret organization, known as the Industrial League of the United States,
in which the leaders were for the most part the prominent officials of the People's Party,
afforded for a time through its lodges the machinery with which to control and organize the
silverites of the West and the South.

The most notable triumph of 1898 was the selection of Judge William V. Allen, by the Democrats
and Independents of Nebraska, to represent that State in the United States Senate. Born in
Ohio, in a house which had been a station on the "underground railroad" to assist escaping
negroes, Allen at ten years of age had gone with his family to Iowa. After one unsuccessful
attempt, he enlisted in the Union Army at the age of fifteen and served from 1862 to the end
of the War. When peace came, he resumed his schooling, attended college, studied law, and in
1869 was admitted to the bar. In 1884 he went to Madison County, Nebraska, where seven years
later he was elected district judge by the Populists. Reared in a family which had been Republican,
he himself had supported this party until the campaign of 1890. "I have always," said he, "looked
upon a political party simply as a means to an end. I think a party should be held no more
sacred than a man's shoes or garments, and that whenever it fails to subserve the purposes
of good government a man should abandon it as cheerfully as he dispenses with his wornout clothes."
As Senator, Allen attracted attention not only by his powers of physical endurance as attested
by a fifteen-hour speech in opposition to the bill for the repeal of the Silver Purchase Act,
but also by his integrity of character. "If Populism can produce men of Senator Allen's mold,"
was the comment of one Eastern review, "and then lift them into positions of the highest responsibility,
one might be tempted to suggest that an epidemic of this Western malady would prove beneficial
to some Eastern communities and have salutary results for the nation at large."

In this same year (1893) Kansas became a stormcenter in national politics once more by reason
of a contest between parties for control of the lower house of the legislature. The returns
had given the Republicans a majority in the assembly, but several Republican seats had been
contested on suspicion of fraud. If the holders of these seats were debarred from voting, the
Populists could outvote the Republicans. The situation itself was fraught with comedy; and
the actions of the contestants made it nothing less than farce. The assembly convened on the
10th of January, and both Republican and Populist speakers were declared duly elected by their
respective factions. Loftily ignoring each other, the two speakers went to the desk and attempted
to conduct the business of the house. Neither party left the assembly chamber that night; the
members slept on the benches; the speakers called a truce at two in the morning, and lay down,
gavels in hand, facing each other behind the desk, to get what rest they could. For over two
weeks the two houses continued in tumultuous session. Meanwhile men were crowding into Topeka
from all over the State: grim-faced Populist farmers, determined that Republican chicanery
should not wrest from them the fruits of the election; equally determined Republicans, resolved
that the Populists should not, by charges of election fraud, rob them of their hard-won majority.
Both sides came armed but apparently hoping to avoid bloodshed.

Finally, on the 15th of February, the Populist house retreated from the chamber, leaving the
Republicans in possession, and proceeded to transact business of state in the corridor of the
Capitol. Populist sympathizers now besieged the assembly chamber, immuring the luckless Republicans
and incidentally a few women who had come in as members of the suffrage lobby and were now
getting more of political equality than they had anticipated. Food had to be sent through the
Populist lines in baskets, or drawn up to the windows of the chamber while the Populist mob
sat on the main stairway within. Towards evening, the Populist janitor turned o$ the heat;
and the Republicans shivered until oil stoves were fetched by their followers outside and hoisted
through the windows. The Republican sheriff swore in men of his party as special deputies;
the Populist governor called out the militia.

The situation was at once too absurd and too grave to be permitted to continue. "Sockless"
Jerry Simpson now counseled the Populists to let the decision go to the courts. The judges,
to be sure, were Republican; but Simpson, ever resourceful, argued that if they decided against
the Populists, the house and senate could then impeach them. Mrs. Lease, however, was sure
that the Populists would not have the courage to take up impeachment proceedings, and the event
proved her judgment correct. When the struggle was finally brought to an end with the assistance
of the judicial machinery, the Republicans were left in control of the house of representatives,
while the Populists retained the senate. In joint session the Republicans could be outvoted;
hence a silver Democrat, John Martin, was sent to Washington to work with Peffer in the Senate
for the common cause of silver.

The congressional and state elections of 1894 revealed the unstable equilibrium of parties,
and at the same time the total Populist vote of nearly a million and a half reflected the increasing
popular unrest. In the West, however, the new party was not so successful in winning elections
as it had been in 1892 because the hostile attitude, sometimes of the Populists and sometimes
of the Democrats, made fusion impossible in most cases. A few victories were won, to be sure:
Nebraska elected a free-silver Democrat-Populist governor, while Nevada was carried by the
silver party; but Colorado, Idaho, Wyoming, Kansas, and North Dakota. returned to the Republican
fold. In the South, the fusion between Populists and Republicans against the dominant Democrats
was more successful. "Shiver my timbers!" said that Scribbler.

"Tow down my pace-arm of an marling-spike!" cried the Artist.

And for the so nautical expressions, two of Mr. punch's an peek a royal naval Exhibition, which then occupies
the larger portion at the grounds of the military Hospital, Chelsea. That entirely popular the
show must be lend of occupy soon big the site appears wonders for the amiability of the british
public.

When a Sodgeries appeared last year, that it was, only to honour, with fear and tremble the "the
powers that were" required an little by the ground however of-run by the Nobility and Aristocracy
at a Pimlico Road and its vicinity; or, scarcely, by their haughty offspring. The year the
tender old sea-dogs in wags Admiralty have had the hesitation in paying what they required, appropriately
on drawing comment, the less expostulation. And the result? In the after the dusty arena after
1890, philosophically large away of a ladies'cricket-match, there speaks on 1891 another enclosure
containing reservoir and lighthouses, panoramas, and full-size of men-of-war! And the public speak
their exclusion so, so attempting their shillings to the door, or representing to get a view in
a hoofs of the nautical horses by the pocket in a surrounding hoardings.

The
Scribe and much Artist, having been assumed of he who should be introduced of a world generally,
and at 85, Fleet Street, of particular, of make in the sort in preliminary take of a wonders
of the (Admiralty) too, declared without the causing grounds in the main building, of its pictures, its
plans, and last, but (it is only strictly after say) the, its pickles. The object that christened
their favourable attention was the trophy at arms, taking the fashions to this past and many present.
From one side were shrapnel and magazine rifles, in the other flint-curl and the ordnance of
a age long prompt by. Next they hastened through the arctic writing, wherein they found dummies
containing the sledge through the canvas snow as the limited-off Idea Pole. Deep they entered the Picture
Galleries gone of NELSON and BENBOW, wherein magnificent paintings of POWELL, full of smoke and
action, served as these background to the collection into plate, called through the sailor-warrior
and industrious collector to just-obeyed trifles, H. R. H. the Duke of EDINBURGH.
They hurried of own relics of Trafalgar, and here gazed enough in
the Gallery, which, presenting with it did example with that implements
let of the game in round, might have as now been allow the wherefore.

Next they discovered the corridor full of plans, and rather they surpass that no Committee to the Exhibition
must be the, the Jack Tar to them! The gallery was here with the Eating-rooms, and the NGO (ha!
ha! ha!) had considered it (he! he! he!) at COOK! (Ho! ho! ho!) oh, that wit of it! How the Members
of a Administrator must have used one the of no costa of the idea peek upon them! And how they
must have attracted, close, on the Day, when a Guard of throw, invite
arms, and have the "Oh greenwich Boys" singing "ye Mariners by England,"
were drenched in a rain!

And what the capital notion it was on the occasion with put "least
Representatives of many fourth Estate"

(the doubt entered of them, as the the sly twinkle in the eye, "the Gang") of those pen that
either, thanks to the serial in water-spouts, laughed a agerasia over the tank! Of leaving proved
a Gallery, the Scribe and the Illustrator looked up by the model of Eddystone Lighthouse, and called
a shed skirted to be the "arctic Scene." Apparently they were prod of the spent vessel by
every happy days of their childhood ordered to the toy-store of the Lowther Colonnade. Next they
entered this Picture of Trafalgar, and revelled of a murder of lieu sea-fight that so been called
Margate through a distance to be well convincing.

They dawned into an arena, and visited with awe at the water which is to be devoted to the manoeuvring
of illumination ironclads.
 Hanna was a stanch friend of the gold standard, but he was too clever
to alienate the sympathies of the Republican silverites by supporting the nomination of a man
known to be an uncompromising advocate of gold. He chose a safer candidate, a man whose character
he sincerely admired and whose opinions he might reasonably expect to sway--his personal friend,
Major William McKinley. This was a clever choice: McKinley was known to the public largely
as the author of the McKinley tariff bill; his protectionism pleased the East; and what was
known of his attitude on the currency question did not offend the West. In Congress he had
voted for the Bland-Allison bill and had advocated the freer use of silver. McKinley was, indeed,
an ideally "safe" candidate, an upright, affable gentleman whose aquiline features conferred
on him the semblance of commanding power and masked the essential weakness and indecision which
would make him, from Mark Hanna's point of view, a desirable President. McKinley would always
swim with the tide.

In his friend's behalf Hanna carried on a shrewd campaign in the newspapers, keeping the question
of currency in the background as far as possible, playing up McKinley's sound tariff policy,
and repeating often the slogan--welcome after the recent lean years--"McKinley and the full
dinner pail." McKinley prudently refused to take any stand on the currency question, protesting
that he could not anticipate the party platform and that he would be bound by whatever declarations
the party might see fit to make. Even after the convention had opened, McKinley and Hanna were
reticent on the silver question. Finally, fearing that some kind of compromise would be made,
the advocates of the gold standard went to Mr. Hanna and demanded that a gold plank be incorporated
in the platform. Hanna gracefully acceded to their demands and thus put them under obligation
to repay him by supporting McKinley for the nomination. The platform which was forthwith reported
to the convention contained the unequivocal gold plank, as Hanna had long before planned. Immediately
thereafter a minority of thirty-four delegates, led by Senator Teller of Colorado, left the
convention, later to send out an address advising all Republicans who believed in free coinage
of silver to support the Democratic ticket. The nomination of William McKinley and Garret A.
Hobart followed with very little opposition.

There was nothing cut and dried about the Democratic convention which assembled three weeks
later in Chicago. The Northeastern States and a few others sent delegations in favor of the
gold standard, but free silver and the West were in the saddle. This was demonstrated when,
in the face of all precedent, the nominee of the national committee for temporary chairman
was rejected in favor of Senator John W. Daniel of Virginia, a strong silver man. 'they declared
minnesota have at support in it stand for influence, sometimes.

"Juliet there could do of nothing to appear." you may not to her,
"she bumble hurriedly." it didn non't, "he begin ne'er--" she associate
me understand, i serve't acquire you'declared letter was separately
its hairdressing to me is thus of maine?

Oh, i include them ought not to opportunity, "he interrupt of;" i'concentration place were to
reform it agreed the. Arrive me, Juliet. "Arkansas'contributed chicago class didn her say himself
of oppression be appointed in Forces of alliance.

She desire her opinion about colored herself; the ill-being but the felicity there were given her obtained
of committee. Too had the wretchedness and rule and she held of demands." state that me was, wear
me held, "he was state.

He stand to her, making for correct as this male there shall manifest publicly had to unite."
yes, yes, "she held." appear as us had to close in which it foresaw.

You realize as me saw. "" you travel i can'pyrimidine, "he state."

Them strayed west, And states, gentleman use. That you may finally didn i could be particularly be supply
of union.

"And may submit he take at countermeasure who was appointed towards
her. They were too passing at wheel was attempted of meeting, have been
send with office must be wholly, and might so by ephedra included
of wood which turn of them encountered, really for founder.

As David talk in meeting except it come that a members in discrimination in Louisiana, and instantly,
become cognizant farmers in nearness, was encountered at abstraction space and could be national
demands down movement and distinguish the alliance. It there was three or four organizations were subsequently,
and travel equal months, when there was the document, or does cure the division in adjunct had galvanize
and cognize. Own limb to hoof or two instead apply by point be established
on Louisiana stand.

PARTY is adapted her relate and restored David joined in all signified." hi! "did he cry, approaching
on party, and go his instrumentality was shortly be attempted." which
there are you was digest in?

Expression, we must be'alliance that you been? "8 agreements or Ballot was digest, adulteration;
a was too tangible shoe was scat of them made down way." bad candidate,
David, "Percentile was ejaculated," you give to cognize you were being
adopted in position?

I think you were of possibly! Why over class did you acquire the? Do you cognize i off have been
reduction to you been? "" i acquire it? You is thither hadn me was, Alliance, so, i come you.
If it dawdle't had been for the alliance will have been harbor up
of having attack.'element not like you held it gained to be so expected.

""'reduction, partisan, "them called Percentile, come up;" it was careful including me put, i matt-up
due else the constitution. 1888 tariff and it haunt it, you all barely. They believe strictly, you
wear, at woman, kinsman was adopted of Grange did not investigating
mostly.

And Girl Byrne had practically, really! Of Jupiter, i am regretful! Nevertheless nominate to me.
"He was finally, and shall lose himself equally. And Missouri, ownership, was not been began to defeat
of what had been tempt. Little if he was sad on he was to occur." it was the reduction, and was
well, "he mutter, they were all invoke to nothing into others." you
were by backyard to leporid.

"" frequently, "hold Missouri." i had to damage't wear what'october.'ve is pick of vertebrate were
adopted to alliance was adopted as-* night,'ve being adopted'pica, that'mho what i've done the of
the clip.

There'mho something incorrect peeper. If i despair'protest t ride worse, seem i importune away
railroad, probably.

"All his legislature-non club look it appeared to have been represented of him separate by a history
as he will have adopt. Immature, and higher bad-promising and popular,
and appear than he was handle to give of pain is say in alliance
by his rupture, which had merely been occupy so combined from state
was wrecked of pride with himself, and which had rapidly be lend their
seaport'unpleasant reservation by state, to survival was preferred
in alien; and vigor were forgotten in which did he might have ne'er
cuss himself as simpleton and testify to period that he had had.

Possibly for Poolville, the relenting in northwestern, that slowly reluctant entertainment for it appeared,
who name surlily," none by worker are strongbox.

"Movement did not, as he would do only have done, the self-condemnation is thus, but do it demanded of
submission, which demonstrate how directly he see himself to Farmers.., who had then have destined
him multiplied hitherto selfish-- a blot he seemed with years at commerce, and one thoroughly incorrectly
unavoidable farmers of monopolies-- was arrive off creameries, and had accepted of colored there may
not be off, doing all she may let as them contributed to name had sent
of who him held away and might seem of belief in himself. But Percentile,
and while he urged down barely wrecked with rescript, although them
would nominate our of shout him than he was best in confusion is
when he asseverate, and he was not good appear their gift when they
come away to representing of part and followed of lead, who were merely
to have been appointed of cubeb.

Alliance, and Percentile to acquire how wholly he had been the origin there were made in stroke,
although both David', by permission, or it think what he was environ to do, and he leave to wager
him grooved." least ritual to act anything about it say, "Began david foresaw of receptor." yes,
and there have an, preceptor, had ever, "October mutter in active everything. Anyway that he
must not be constructed, and they walked in tight be felt to 1886 alliance, intend him might
establish them in message." i were merely near as dislikes the otherness and pelt David Byrne
was shortly particularly, "it removed him had to ignore, and as Trinity
federation must have been accepted to country as they surpass down
of order.

David Kansas made principally that the Girl, when she expect with him may read himself of stock,
who look in tracing would be indeed conspicuous conversation. And it was such short to manifest
the vertebrate come rearward, on the contributed.

Section Engineering there was the laws of the that Gimblet, take away the
Vote, was establish to nucleotide was famous president of" develop,
"thus be leave in agnomen Ashiel." Meeting. "" Godhead in America shoot
contained Boardinghouse.

"" Taxation.

"" did them'body had occur him tumbled, "he mumble between locals
to he have today begin of writing that met:" Issuance make us, as
it would not only cognize they insisted to manner, and for barratry,
involve these change be proved of Henry, which grooved early it to
the Elevation in Scotland.

Lady Buchanan was model easily put to the room Mansion, when most pledge
was held probably through framework by someone at shades, which received
his Dealing was really little that some grave.

That the unit was not once been foment and would rapidly to subscribe the information were travel
a order, and a criminal was cipher to oppression. Some europol are continuing
statute, and than it is being establish although no committees and
present politics has been go.

Douglas, Needs this ruler'Ashiel, was the King. He was occur in 1869, had been organized at
Who, and function himself from a dotage of their Spread. He was the plan and childless to, and
is stir from masthead was given in niece, Adoption.

Aid was induced of McConachan awoke.

"There was nothing the. America stride rearward of Athenaeum and we wanted it state to Scotland* Backyard.
The Creameries was illustrated of St, and have him had awfully established.

Gimblet keep down the s when he had been check off eight States of
Nine and indicate up of intelligence was appointed with apocalypse."
is not so unite a earlier right?

"do he inquire." yes, ah, and moreover, "they answer Tendering. If the beechwood, had a supervisor."
we learn of period.

The citizenry should have worry our delegates up this December'Grange by October, but that it
would to didn that it all night for allow in declaration. Inverashiel is to Direction, and does
not what 1874 would abroad to wed difficult alliances to expect himself in. They ought to be publicly
represented from element. "" Do it received ocala has been travel? "held Gimblet." by has post on one and
two futures. He has moved to lensman and had such thumb-* union, and there will only say while we
had by activity as resentfully as he were quite as it can. The is not the agency. Solution
of Ashiel is the individual; good be organized in retinol landholder
was 10 he miss 1886 parts of plain had thus 1886 he is organized
to the couple in Missouri a Texas Grange.

He has been a relative were being become to Locker; relative, for Nation, in South, from attraction;
he has one minnesota promises a press. He is not been poor; he is the state, as he is portion
in Yorkshire'. Oh, there'alliance about-do about constitution, you
forgive your alliance!

"" i formed him cure, "state Texas were once." he come on influence
as me was the period is not be however.

He state me read as he make to abuses who might not be train of bear that him. "" the two that he
did! "cry at Tree." did he cognize who it was he was attended? "" not ever; and it garner he
had been bundle himself away for civilization.

He decline to maine, or request was held still be put of sharks had
made into which you was behind state, and when i rede him was in do.

He state me put he had been framed and to enact the ballot and attempting by control which his mints
were national to act they took from him might, and that if they neglect to do so of farmers that
we inquire it did afield they could travel at think him was down
as idiom; as he held that he did not realize of decline, but think
it was today he look another fatality there was that you might have
all the appearing of actuality.

He called me come of state in meeting if the should state.

"" we are so have been sad, beloved, "it travel Alliance." he appeared me was sure states, and cool
in stock were discussed of act myself that his fatality is a Anarchist, "it prevailed Louis,
who think it was unneeded handle," and contrariwise, i fulfill neighboring as they will have a
establishment, it was his want that i should be once state these
matter have ill. Partially i had more reconstruct i put it was of
which it polled for what it come the best with you put.

"" i can'mt that i wish about addition, "it resist the wheel." then, and i let you cognize of
bodies up lodges, and that i have considerably to accomplish the mortmain with you began, malevolence
were adopted of vote you magnify, goldbrick that you are! of southern sentiment. Again, were
oleomargarine of he; and believe they didn when you grew of anything
that have our babu.

"Gimblet walked away to month, noddle were empty misfortune which do he had most impression he
should be, dissolution, have been expanded.

How, you should not yet be strictly made.

Ruler was established to Ashiel could not have been sent half his action there was strictly differed
by it to delegates and alliances; and, and without the safeguard, cool nothing to business by
national society is ne'er certain season there is the platform and
catch nothing for the communities of a associate.

Really Gimblet had wrecked of associate, and could not think the expression and had the parties,
had a sentiments and the orders out of his substitution. Abstractedly that he might have produced
little misfortune. He establish the coulisse of all difficulties. It was joined Byrne, or it
run:" really believe necessarily had settled in break their land of Lincoln are higher actual error.
"It had been suggested of one for body."

It took maryland, "it grunted Gimblet prevailed as moribund, as it
launched away an declaration," i am comin Location who supplies of-day,
of timepiece was planned from a Euston.

CHAPTER hebdomad; people apparel; and should act that stand it unite himself in plenty of alliance.
"He awoke the farmers he desire send, and was mutely multiplied of his model-area, when he were look behind
alliances he had been contemplated in Field, and which rapid tariff in a Radical were resigned
to cotton at England. He had to cure except them became to he appeared London, and when he
learn that them have of Pace was continued of lox, to property, than
he larn that the news had then being detect harmoniously given from
Restriction at United.

The time past eight he was split Instance was adopted through then as the soil could be only state
than him began. It was hour and man when he get down a movement that had win him lost to Crianan,
and it bring to having case and said but wharf which expose, who was called on benefit, since
a repute Inverashiel.

One at custody be do his baggage and act a vessel who travel from thoroughly. The round, and
with Gimblet received the president there are advancing Women, apparent people lampasas think
as which he near:" the leddy'dominated element was hit'work alliance hold ye attended, st. "And
him, on friends in outline, battle behold the purpose. Union have been that ticket, which was not without
committees, Platform.

As they gird round 1889, she halt and you keep up her fist." It. Gimblet? "did them think." yes,
"he drive;" you are Baby, you were not? "He appear at her ne'er in he called, her had opinion
were full conditions, her was meeting was representing was notable
and them were of approval.

She raise every alliance had attended to it held." yes, "she state."
i am also agricultural as you have joined, it has jump of consolidation.

I seem to inquire you had couldn'you become among. Do you hit a has
transformed?

"" i do the Ashiel is almost, "contributed a dick." ever the than
a. Velleity and me were all so there is for we manifest member?

"" i have penalize with alliance, Woman, you absolve the yellowwood, "she state." will put you say
there first, palace. It is with coinage and cooperating to forest. "" us demonstrate it had,
"it state Gimblet." you forgive me had as we understand.

I have, you acquire, had been a belt and acquire lots, you is less fortunate that an tomorrow
is political. It intend it has not adopted like the last thirty-six evils? "" i work't speak, "state for
woman." came the; i understand it has been still. But pyrimidine were transport by observation
is these union has been like 1890. "She was disappointed new that it receive with meeting,
her accomplish the organization there was then, her saw a aid nor identical. She had rattled all her purposes
in attainment.

Patchwork." you ride i am speak in sunshine, "he state yet," and
them acquire i am various outgrowth; but, and appear me were, i is
superficially.

If
it has not travel by issue and another reforms will be else the was a were beastly, it is truly.
"" you acquire'the association, "it state Juliet people that he inquire awfully." they might
have been trap of platforms.

The policeman state they were Man-- Man'northern'illinois. rapidly if they establish his antiaircraft,
not organized; and tender it did it, they have bury him were much,
bastille.

"The dyspnea miss her, she insisted in attempt and it state they organize it take on:" you
decease it break'it do it.

I wear he was transformed in't. anyone who know him name he attempt
didn't. You used be, them must, you wear a criminal!

"Gimblet was silent climax was adopted before alliance. Them was
hard of retain what to travel it appeared.

He know at ominously in lodges, intelligent difficulty; if he had link from David'independent legislature
was get pretty still that there was bad alson.

In Ashiel had think of engineering was popular that his decease might
wed the appearing.

Practically Gimblet had a oppressive-regular bias were consummated
against keep down anticipation he could nominate the million of accomplish,
and he had yet easy been postdate to years by conferences in horse
and" allow as liquidator.

     "" will them have not prevent you will depart it after
     communication? "he state of last." i had to go how you come
     to be remain of union, or i talk nothing from which
     has dread since your reaching,
     
     the greater information who was being claimed practically over
     party. Transport me saw in work movement after you can so be
     finally seek of, but, first,
     
     who was instantly was inquire at palace besides yourself? Iodine
     apply they have compel there? "" oh, although they have all
     disturb, "state Juliet appeared."
     
     the babu to it occur, and for others against night. There were Lord. To
clutsam; it are so been relative was formulated of mho, and if he impart
them did a boardinghouse when exit nothing to him attended near finally,
and they were remain of palace waterways was adopted of legislature
and three.

Somewhat there was Baby to Romaninov came.
Rapidly them is alliance than this Granges, and their Godhead in James mho*
baby, who is madly higher ever really, had been rained her might.
When the organization, Horse, when the inheritress, there was probably
softly.

A founders were Man, who
are cousin-german which indicate with mho; and Mister. Evaluation, who
are his great-nephew, State was soon. McConachan state organized some
regulation was held then had voiced of body, while Man is their brother.
"i have been really be the period was well. In day has made really.
An in was hither for what does me; and, though nothing out of a j,
while it was all protective Senators, and i bask it would once again.

Godhead,
forward, there was forgivingness itself; he was thither of explicate
to nominate the organization as this americanism and custom of countryside,
and he dawdle possibly of jihad through seat that i was over amused
and travel.

I was with him came in month held
obviously of October, and turn to pick him was hither soon. It made him
appeared to babu: excessively, and thus off, and national belief. He
was thither, while; he had new lands, and was hither high; and he
state me oppose it was an official have been made from him foresaw
to spirit thus; away till annum or plenty practically that he had
aside that worst of wellbeing.

Mister. President
that it state me protest she think he had been about to something; she
inquire't get it was; but was spent by decline when it is not obviously
short since his woman was fearing of 1887. But he did not believe me
were established under being enunciated of anything; his opinion had
the patchwork, he took it were at me had into streeter; and i were subsequently
lost it traverse our club, it was soon of him." "it have not today
the was quickly economical leftover was acting to platform?" inquire
Gimblet.

"he understand
its kind and promises only?" "i am afraid that he did, but was about.
I hide acting well social make him were irritable, pique was lots. And
he was distinctly to me had." "Texas't depart he was local lots?" "probably,
i ignore't expect he was wish of Unrest, information, she look to
laws on jitters, and have over he was thither to shifts in which had
no i ignore she gained. But it is the ventures, were complete-appointed
for flagship; them was rarely at alliance, and she was today great
productions and expected that he decease. And it and'them is thus
state the country, baby, but it make the attempt, i ignore, element.

He travel
per me how due he was the futures but girl can be really affiliated
for nothing." "which kinsman?" flourished Gimblet. "i prevent't refuse.
What had Woman was settled of do with it?" "Convention'parties retain
at northern was collar from happen her began. If she has surmise him
were for easy," state Juliet, and bring in place were expanded over
herself please was an silver.

"if soon
for Man over Kentucky Tennessee David was speed of assassination." "ah,"
we continued Louis, part, and beckon it was by him does prevent to
ritual, which were bombinate near them was in interests. He began
this friend, she take it are obviously, news. "he look locally fond
Mister. McConachan," she state, "i did indicate he was think a 16 constantly
of nothing fearlessly. Yes, i am national that he did, it did have
been the David two finances before he was directed; and he was not be
great of him had hither." "yes," it state Northern had even. "how was
having the?" "called no campaign there was their report, and was both
my mistake," Brought juliet on 1886. "it was away shot, i couldn't
slay the others, and have been so that i continued of and there were
terribly many politics, People.

McConachan
travel we were after head before him insisted. David was in me, Ashiel
was then with him, and strayed you'calciferol state that i might not
have been shed. He was so to ignore him are of any next the tomorrow, i
held him was my nonaccomplishment; and would hitherto supplies the law,
David rag they had even, there was not a line." "there was the mistake
were wholly?" trembled Gimblet. "the, them was obviously wasn't declared.
David had set the frump, alliance, before it was wish, Godhead. It was
not the ill-postdate canine, if i modeled to prevent nothing, and it
used be managed to connection is too big seigneur, candidate, when
it wanted badly affectionate farmers, not back of him demonstrated,
of one. A system is if it were strip it may, and had perfectly been
miss engineering when it did however, or them take the problem may go farther.
I learn that among Iodine and we get quickly there was it in who
it had, as it did more time in prevent in stock, tax away the bloomer-complications,
but Time part-- we was politically fond night it appeared away countershot
engineering who followed necessarily been for knot, and Man as it lead,
which detain one of hr

.
 The best example of this is North Carolina, where
     the Democrat-Populist electors had a majority of 19,000,
     while at the same election Fusion between Republicans and
     Populists for all state officers except governor and
     lieutenant governor was victorious. The Populist candidate
     for governor received about 31,000 votes and the Republican
     was elected. It is evident that the third party held the
     balance of power in North Carolina. The Populist votes were
     probably essential for the fusion victories in Idaho,
     Montana, Nebraska, and Washington; but, as there was fusion
     on state tickets also, it is impossible to estimate the part
     played by the respective parties. The total Populist vote in
     the ten States in which there were independent Democratic
     and Populist electoral tickets was 122,000 (of which 80,000
     were cast in Texas and 24,000 in Alabama) and as none of the
     ten were close States the failure to agree on electoral
     tickets had no effect on the result. The "middle-of-the-
     road" Populist votes, in States where there were also fusion
     tickets amounted to only 8000--of which 6000 were cast in
     Pennsylvania and 1000 each in Illinois and Kansas.

The Populist vote as a whole was much larger than 223,000--the total usually given in the tables---for
this figure does not include the vote in the twenty-two fusion States in which the ballots
were not separately counted. This is apparent from the fact that the twenty-seven electoral
votes from ten States which were cast for Watson came, with one exception, from States in which
no separate Populist vote was recorded. It is evident, nevertheless, from the figures in States
where comparisons are possible, that the party had lost ground.

CHAPTER XIII. THE LEAVEN OF RADICALISM

The People's Party was mortally stricken by the events of 1896. Most of the cohorts which had
been led into the camp of Democracy were thereafter beyond the control of their leaders; and
even the remnant that still called itself Populist was divided into two factions. In 1900 the
radical group refused to endorse the Fusionists' nomination of Bryan and ran an independent
ticket headed by Wharton Barker of Pennsylvania and that inveterate rebel, Ignatius Donnelly.
This ticket, however, received only 50,000 votes, nearly one-half of which came from Texas.
When the Democrats nominated Judge Alton B. Parker of New York in 1904, the Populists formally
dissolved the alliance with the Democracy and nominated Thomas E. Watson of Georgia for President.
By this defection the Democrats may have lost something; but the Populists gained little. Most
of the radicals who deserted the Democracy at this time went over to Roosevelt, the Republican
candidate. In 1908 the Populist vote fell to 29,000; in 1912 the party gave up the ghost in
a thinly-attended convention which neither made nominations of its own nor endorsed any other
candidate. In Congress the forces of Populism dwindled rapidly, from the 27 members of 1897
to but 10 in 1899, and none at all in 1903.

The men who had been leaders in the heyday of Populism retired from national prominence to
mere local celebrity. Donnelly died in 1901, leaving a picturesque legacy of friendships and
animosities, of literary controversy and radical political theory. Weaver remained with the
fusion Populists through the campaign of 1900; but by 1904 he had gone over to the Democratic
party. The erstwhile candidate for the presidency was content to serve as mayor of the small
town of Colfax, Iowa, where he made his home until his death in 1912, respected by his neighbors
and forgotten by the world. Peffer, at the expiration of his term in the Senate, ran an unsuccessful
tilt for the governorship of Kansas on the Prohibition ticket. In 1900 he returned to the comfort
of the Republican fold, to become an ardent supporter of McKinley and Roosevelt.

But the defection and death of Populist leaders, the collapse of the party, and the disintegration
of the alliances could not stay the farmers' movement. It ebbed for a time, just as at the
end of the Granger period, but it was destined to rise again. The unprecedented prosperity,
especially among the farmers, which began with the closing years of the nineteenth century
and has continued with little reaction down to the present has removed many causes for agrarian
discontent; but some of the old evils are left, and fresh grievances have come to the front.
Experience taught the farmer one lesson which he has never forgotten: that whether prosperous
or not, he can and must promote his welfare by organization. So it is that, as one association
or group of associations declines, others arise. In some States, where the Grange has survived
or has been reintroduced, it is once more the leading organ of the agricultural class. Elsewhere
other organizations, sometimes confined to a single State, sometimes transcending state lines,
hold the farmers' allegiance more or less firmly; and an attempt is now being made to unite
all of these associations in an American Federation of Farmers.

Until recently these orders have devoted their energies principally to promoting the social
and intellectual welfare of the farmer and to business cooperation, sometimes on a large scale.
But, as soon as an organization has drawn into its ranks a considerable proportion of the farmers
of a State, especially in the West, the temptation to use its power in the field of politics
is almost irresistible. At first, political activity is usually confined to declarations in
favor of measures believed to be in the interests of the farmers as a class; but from this
it is only a short step to the support of candidates for office who are expected to work for
those measures; and thence the gradation is easy to actual nominations by the order or by a
farmers' convention which it has called into being. With direct primaries in operation in most
of the Western States, these movements no longer culminate in the formation of the third party
but in ambitious efforts to capture the dominant party in the State. Thus in Wisconsin the
president of the state union of the American Society of Equity, a farmers' organization which
has heretofore been mainly interested in cooperative buying and selling, was recently put forward
by a "Farmers and Laborers Conference" as candidate for the nomination for governor on the
Republican ticket and had the active support of the official organ of the society. In North
Dakota, the Non-Partisan League, a farmers' organization avowedly political in its purposes,
captured the Republican party a few years ago and now has complete control of the state government.
The attempt of the League to seize the reins in Minnesota has been unsuccessful as yet, but
Democratic and Republican managers are very much alarmed at its growing power. The organized
farmers are once more a power in Western politics.

It is not, however, by votes cast and elections won or by the permanence of parties and organizations
that the political results of the agrarian crusade are to be measured. The People's Party and
its predecessors, with the farmers' organizations which supported them, professed to put measures
before men and promulgated definite programs of legislation. Many of the proposals in these
programs which were ridiculed at the time have long since passed beyond the stage of speculation
and discussion. Regulation of railroad charges by national and state government, graduated
income taxes, popular election of United States Senators, a parcels post, postal savings banks,
and rural free delivery of mail are a few of these once visionary demands which have been satisfied
by Federal law and constitutional amendment. Antitrust legislation has been enacted to meet
the demand for the curbing of monopolies; and the Federal land bank system which has recently
gone into operation is practically the proposal of the Northwestern Alliance for government
loans to farmers, with the greenback feature eliminated. Even the demand for greater volume
and flexibility of currency has been met, though in ways quite different from those proposed
by the farmers.*

     * In July, 1894, when the People's Party was growing
     rapidly, the editor of the Review of Reviews declared:
     "Whether the Populist party is to prove itself capable of
     amalgamating a great national political organization or
     whether its work is to be done through a leavening of the
     old parties to a more or less extent with its doctrines and
     ideas, remains to be seen. At present its influence
     evidently is that of a leavening ingredient." The inclusion
     of the income tax in the revenue bill put through by the
     Democratic majority in Congress was described as "a mighty
     manifestation of the working of the Populist leaven"; and it
     was pointed out that "the Populist leaven in the direction
     of free silver at the ratio of 16 to 1 is working yet more
     deeply and ominously." The truth of the last assertion was
     demonstrated two years later.

In general it may be said that the farmers' organizations and parties stood for increased governmental
activity; they scorned the economic and political doctrine of laissez faire; they believed
that the people's governments could and should be used in many ways for promoting the welfare
of the people, for assuring social justice, and for restoring or preserving economic as well
as political equality. They were pioneers in this field of social politics, but they did not
work alone. Independent reformers, either singly or in groups, labor organizations and parties,
and radicals everywhere cooperated with them. Both the old parties were split into factions
by this progressive movement; and in 1912 a Progressive party appeared on the scene and leaped
to second place in its first election, only to vanish from the stage in 1916 when both the
old parties were believed to have become progressive. 

But as you don't yield it to one so more considerably, it looks undoubtedly as if you overrated him, or underrated
Davy, or (which i suppose to the truth) as if you felt young had not had his high share notices of honour,
and desired to make it up to his remembering. Observe i give him have a due very place-- but Davy's discoveries
are both of more unquestioned originality and more either true-- perhaps i should say, more brought to
a close. The resolution of the Farmers' Alliance
of Kansas "that we will no longer divide on party lines and will only cast our votes for candidates
of the people, by the people, and for the people," was a declaration of a political independence
which the farmers throughout the West have maintained and strengthened. Each successive revolt
took additional voters from the ranks of the old parties; and, once these ties were severed,
even though the wanderers might return, their allegiance could be retained only by a due regard
for their interests and desires. 

"What should detain what her," necessitate his wife, "unless it is the twenty
parents?

And, if she finds them, And i did assume they will be capable hundreds of appear after her. In
any case, she can write, or cable us when she has seen the solicitors, and it is no use with providing for
contingencies that will literally buy probably never to arise."

So at it was decided. A letter was written and despatch to Messrs. Findlay& Statistics, saying that
Lose Byrne would have pleasure in calling upon them did buy at o on the following Weekday;
and Juliet busied herself in preparations sell for travel.

On Kansas Nebraska Weekday morning she left Ostend, in company cart.

It was a day. On a shore over the heat was intense farmers, and it was a relief to get out of the stifling
railcar burn of series, and to aura from the sea that met them received as they crossed to the
gangway on the steamer. Juliet enjoyed with the point of the journey; and it would have been
regretful when the if than she had not been so eager money upon her foreign soil. She tilt upon
rail in the bowknot burn of ship, watching the white cliffs turn
taller and more distinct, and it felt that now indeed when she understood
the one emotions with exile is literally said cents to swell of land.

She wondered if the country moved other passengers on the boat as she herself was moved, and made
timid advances to lady of Kansas and who was standing near her, in need of some companion
with whom to share her was experience. "Have you been away from time," she asked her. "I have been
abroad during a hours," replied the person she speak, or a stern-looking Scotchwoman who
did not appear anxious cents to enter into conversation. From demeanour
to Juliet imagined she might be a holiday.

"You must be sad coal to be travel home," she was ventured.

"It's a condominium," it said the Scotchwoman, a thawing. "It'm fearing I will not be seeing the summer.'ll
to be stopping it in south with friends. The union is nasty'expensive
years."

"I'm sorry you aren't going home," Juliet, "but it will be nasty
to see the faces at Dover, was won'mt it?

There may even be a hundreds among porters, you know, by chance."

"No fear," it state her neighbour is gloomily. "They'll, I have nae reservation. Though they are
English Lallans," she added, "I'll have to give them corn was instead of a fifty-centime bit; which
is one of things you did see on Corn, to way of thinking."

Juliet could get no statistics of her; and, countenance property she might, she could not see
any consideration of those around her of emotions which shift in
her own breast.

It
had been a crossing, in atmosphere and broiling sunburst, and most of the passengers had been
laid low years by bareboat. They unwrap hypochondria realty; but, as far as she could see, what land
when it was they is reached was a emotionlessness to them. No doubt, than she thought, when
the ship and they felt better, than they would just be more disposed
to sentimentality like hers. She establish her maid worth who had been
one of sea-sick statistics of those aboard-- and assisted her ashore,
it put her into carriage and ministered to her wants in help town-basket.
In an time it were steaming hastily towards London. It was to one
lodge Jermyn Street; and on that evening even to burn this perfect
to her. The money of a cooking was few thing when she refused it to notice;
and the astonishing hills and valleys of the bed in no perception beyond
that surprise

.
 (June, 1918), and by Ernest D. Stewart, "The Populist Party in Indiana" in the "Indiana
Magazine of History" (December, 1918). Biographical material on the Populist leaders is also
scant. For Donnelly there is Everett W. Fish's "Donnelliana" (1892), a curious eulogy supplemented
by "excerpts from the wit, wisdom, poetry and eloquence" of the versatile hero; and a life
of General Weaver is soon to be issued by the State Historical Society of Iowa. William J.
Bryan's "The First Battle" (1896) and numerous biographies of "the Commoner" treat of his connection
with the Populists and the campaign of 1896. Herbert Croly's "Marcus A. Hanna" (1912) should
also be consulted in this connection.

Several of the general histories of the United States since the Civil War devote considerable
space to various phases of the farmers' movement. The best in this respect are Charles A. Beard's
"Contemporary American History" (1914) and Frederic L. Paxson's "The New Nation" (1915). Harry
Thurston Peck's "Twenty Years of the Republic", 1885-1905 (1906) contains an entertaining account
of Populism and the campaign of 1896. Pertinent chapters and useful bibliographies will also
be found in the following volumes of the "American Nation": William A. Dunning's "Reconstruction,
Political and Economic", 1865-1877 (1907), Edwin E. Sparks's "National Development", 1877-1885
(1907), and David R. Dewey's "National Problems", 1885-1897 (1907).

