THE STOLEN WHITE ELEPHANT

by Mark Twain

     [Left out of A Tramp Abroad, because it was feared that some
     of the particulars had been exaggerated, and that others
     were not true.  Before these suspicions had been proven
     groundless, the book had gone to press. --M.  T.]

I.

The following curious history was related to me by a chance railway acquaintance. He was a
gentleman more than seventy years of age, and his thoroughly good and gentle face and earnest
and sincere manner imprinted the unmistakable stamp of truth upon every statement which fell
from his lips. He said:

You know in what reverence the royal white elephant of Siam is held by the people of that country.
You know it is sacred to kings, only kings may possess it, and that it is, indeed, in a measure
even superior to kings, since it receives not merely honor but worship. Very well; five years
ago, when the troubles concerning the frontier line arose between Great Britain and Siam, it
was presently manifest that Siam had been in the wrong. Therefore every reparation was quickly
made, and the British representative stated that he was satisfied and the past should be forgotten.
This greatly relieved the King of Siam, and partly as a token of gratitude, partly also, perhaps,
to wipe out any little remaining vestige of unpleasantness which England might feel toward
him, he wished to send the Queen a present--the sole sure way of propitiating an enemy, according
to Oriental ideas. This present ought not only to be a royal one, but transcendently royal.
Wherefore, what offering could be so meet as that of a white elephant? My position in the Indian
civil service was such that I was deemed peculiarly worthy of the honor of conveying the present
to her Majesty. A ship was fitted out for me and my servants and the officers and attendants
of the elephant, and in due time I arrived in New York harbor and placed my royal charge in
admirable quarters in Jersey City. It was necessary to remain awhile in order to recruit the
animal's health before resuming the voyage.

All went well during a fortnight--then my calamities began. The white elephant was stolen!
I was called up at dead of night and informed of this fearful misfortune. For some moments
I was beside myself with terror and anxiety; I was helpless. Then I grew calmer and collected
my faculties. I soon saw my course--for, indeed, there was but the one course for an intelligent
man to pursue. Late as it was, I flew to New York and got a policeman to conduct me to the
headquarters of the detective force. Fortunately I arrived in time, though the chief of the
force, the celebrated Inspector Blunt was just on the point of leaving for his home. He was
a man of middle size and compact frame, and when he was thinking deeply he had a way of kniting
his brows and tapping his forehead reflectively with his finger, which impressed you at once
with the conviction that you stood in the presence of a person of no common order. The very
sight of him gave me confidence and made me hopeful. I stated my errand. It did not flurry
him in the least; it had no more visible effect upon his iron self-possession than if I had
told him somebody had stolen my dog. He motioned me to a seat, and said, calmly:

"Allow me to think a moment, please."

So saying, he sat down at his office table and leaned his head upon his hand. Several clerks
were at work at the other end of the room; the scratching of their pens was all the sound I
heard during the next six or seven minutes. Meantime the inspector sat there, buried in thought.
Finally he raised his head, and there was that in the firm lines of his face which showed me
that his brain had done its work and his plan was made. Said he--and his voice was low and
impressive:

"This is no ordinary case. Every step must be warily taken; each step must be made sure before
the next is ventured. You have I have thought, so I wanted to first talk alone. But now I want to forget what lies
behind and now you tell me, mother, what lies ahead? Can I recharge my misery this young woman?
Can they carry it, it is, so soft and sensitive and I always seemed as though their very nature designed
for pleasure and joy? Although I do not think we have to suffer hardship. The whole country will
help us invalids, especially helps that we work and learn something "Now--name of the elephant?"

"Hassan Ben Ali Ben Selim Abdallah Mohammed Moist Alhammal Jamsetjejeebhoy Dhuleep Sultan Ebu
Bhudpoor."

"Very well. Given name?"

"Jumbo."

"Very well. Place of birth?"

"The capital city of Siam."

"Parents living?"

"No--dead."

"Had they any other issue besides this one?"

"None. He was an only child."

"Very well. These matters are sufficient under that head. Now please describe the elephant,
and leave out no particular, however insignificant--that is, insignificant from your point
of view. To me in my profession there are no insignificant particulars; they do not exist."

I described he wrote. When I was done, he said:

"Now listen. If I have made any mistakes, correct me."

He read as follows:

"Height, 19 feet; length from apex of forehead insertion of tail, 26 feet; length of trunk,
16 feet; length of tail, 6 feet; total length, including trunk, and tail, 48 feet; length of
tusks, 9 feet; ears keeping with these dimensions; footprint resembles the mark left when one
up-ends a barrel in the snow; the color of the elephant, a dull white; has a hole the size
of a plate in each ear for the insertion of jewelry and possesses the habit in a remarkable
degree of squirting water upon spectators and of maltreating with his trunk not only such persons
as he is acquainted with, but even entire strangers; limps slightly with his right hind leg,
and has a small scar in his left armpit caused by a former boil; had on, when stolen, a castle
containing seats for fifteen persons, and a gold-cloth saddle-blanket the size of an ordinary
carpet."

There were no mistakes. The inspector touched the bell, handed the description to Alaric, and said:

"Have fifty thousand copies of this printed at once and mailed to every detective office and
pawnbroker's shop on the continent." Alaric retired. "There--so far, so good. Next, I must
have a photograph of the property."

I gave him one. He examined it critically, and said:

"It must do, since we can do no better; but he has his trunk curled up and tucked into his
mouth. That is unfortunate, and is calculated to mislead, for of course he does not usually
have it in that position." He touched his bell.

"Alaric, have fifty thousand copies of this photograph made the first thing in the morning,
and mail them with the descriptive circulars."

Alaric retired to execute his orders. The inspector said:

"It will be necessary to offer a reward, of course. Now as to the amount?"

"What sum would you suggest?"

"To begin with, I should say--well, twenty-five thousand dollars. It is an intricate and difficult
business; there are a thousand avenues of escape and opportunities of concealment. These thieves
have friends and pals everywhere--"

"Bless me, do you know who they are?"

The wary face, practised in concealing the thoughts and feelings within, gave me no token,
nor yet the replying words, so quietly uttered:

"Never mind about that. I may, and I may not. We generally gather a pretty shrewd inkling of
who our man is by the manner of his work and the size of the game he goes after. We are not
dealing with a pickpocket or a hall thief now, make up your mind to that. This property was
not 'lifted' by a novice. But, as I was saying, considering the amount of travel which will
have to be done, and the diligence with which the thieves will cover up their traces as they
move along, twenty-five thousand may be too small a sum to offer, yet I think it worth while
to start with that."

So we determined upon that figure as a beginning. Then this man, whom nothing escaped which
could by any possibility be made to serve as a clue, said:

"There are cases in detective history to show that criminals have been detected through peculiarities,
in their appetites. Very well--as to men. You should discuss with me why he wanted to talk to you by yourself?

"He is sorry for you and fears it would be bad for you. It is hard too, Helen, has agitated me in the worst
way. I needed to get my act together to keep the words. Now the son
can not feel pain, since they got that copy and the sad crying could
not be stopped.

Helene never knew it wasn't the mom but the power of the mind.

 He would take what they had."

"Well, put it in dollars and cents, then. We must get at it somehow. The Dore costs a hundred
dollars a copy, Russia leather, beveled."

"He would require about fifty thousand dollars worth--say an edition of five hundred copies."

"Now that is more exact. I will put that down. Very well; he likes men and Bibles; so far,
so good. What else will he eat? I want particulars."

"He will leave Bibles to eat bricks, he will leave bricks to eat bottles, he will leave bottles
to eat clothing, he will leave clothing to eat cats, he will leave cats to eat oysters, he
will leave oysters to eat ham, he will leave ham to eat sugar, he will leave sugar to eat pie,
he will leave pie to eat potatoes, he will leave potatoes to eat bran; he will leave bran to
eat hay, he will leave hay to eat oats, he will leave oats to eat rice, for he was mainly raised
on it. There is nothing whatever that he will not eat but European butter, and he would eat
that if he could taste it."

"Very good. General quantity at a meal--say about--"

"Well, anywhere from a quarter to half a ton."

"And he drinks--"

"Everything that is fluid. Milk, water, whisky, molasses, castor oil, camphene, carbolic acid--it
is no use to go into particulars; whatever fluid occurs to you set it down. He will drink anything
that is fluid, except European coffee."

"Very good. As to quantity?"

"Put it down five to fifteen barrels--his thirst varies; his other appetites do not."

"These things are unusual. They ought to furnish quite good clues toward tracing him."

He touched the bell.

"Alaric; summon Captain Burns."

Burns appeared. Inspector Blunt unfolded the whole matter to him, detail by detail. Then he
said in the clear, decisive tones of a man whose plans are clearly defined in his head and
who is accustomed to command:

"Captain Burns, detail Detectives Jones, Davis, Halsey, Bates, and Hackett to shadow the elephant."

"Yes, sir."

"Detail Detectives Moses, Dakin, Murphy, Rogers, Tupper, Higgins, and Bartholomew to shadow
the thieves."

"Yes, sir."

"Place a strong guard--A guard of thirty picked men, with a relief of thirty--over the place
from whence the elephant was stolen, to keep strict watch there night and day, and allow none
to approach--except reporters--without written authority from me."

"Yes, sir."

"Place detectives in plain clothes in the railway; steamship, and ferry depots, and upon all
roadways leading out of Jersey City, with orders to search all suspicious persons."

"Yes, sir."

"Furnish all these men with photograph and accompanying description of the elephant, and instruct
them to search all trains and outgoing ferryboats and other vessels."

"Yes, sir."

"If the elephant should be found, let him be seized, and the information forwarded to me by
telegraph."

"Yes, sir."

"Let me be informed at once if any clues should be found footprints of the animal, or anything
of that kind."

"Yes, sir."

"Get an order commanding the harbor police to patrol the frontages vigilantly."

"Yes, sir."

"Despatch detectives in plain clothes over all the railways, north as far as Canada, west as
far as Ohio, south as far as Washington."

"Yes, sir."

"Place experts in all the telegraph offices to listen in to all messages; and let them require
that all cipher despatches be interpreted to them."

"Yes, sir."

"Let all these things be done with the utmost's secrecy--mind, the most impenetrable secrecy."

"Yes, sir."

"Report to me promptly at the usual hour."

"Yes, Sir."

"Go!"

"Yes, sir."

He was gone.

Inspector Blunt was silent and thoughtful a moment, while the fire in his eye cooled down and
faded out. Then he turned to me and said in a placid voice:

"I am not given to boasting, it is not my habit; but--we shall find the elephant."

I shook him warmly by the hand and thanked him; and I felt my thanks, too. The more I had seen
of the man the more I liked him and the more I admired him and marveled over the mysterious
wonders of his profession. Then we parted for the night, and I went home with a far happier
heart than I had carried with me to his office.

II

Next morning it was all in the newspapers, in the minutest detail. It even had additions--consisting
of Detective This, Detective That, and Detective The Other's "Theory" as to how the robbery
was done, who the robbers were, and whither they had flown with their booty. There were eleven
of these theories, and they covered all the possibilities; and this single fact shows what
independent thinkers detectives are. No two theories were alike, or even much resembled each
other, save in one striking particular, and in that one all the other eleven theories were
absolutely agreed. That was, that although the rear of my building was torn out and the only
door remained locked, the elephant had not been removed through the rent, but by some other
(undiscovered) outlet. All agreed that the robbers had made that rent only to mislead the detectives.
That never would have occurred to me or to any other layman, perhaps, but it had not deceived
the detectives for a moment. Thus, what I had supposed was the only thing that had no mystery
about it was in fact the very thing I had gone furthest astray in. Well spent it
in there like blazing fire, and immediately had to shatter everything. But then suddenly very cold
and invigorating the alluvial stream over his forehead, over the whole face and in the Flowed
into the mouth, and Franz Anton swallowed and swallowed and awoke.

It was true, a cast was ice cold after another on forehead and face. Then came something his mouth,
and he shuffled the greedy be cooled a drink. Above him stood the
glittering Star, that of Franz Anton saw clearly.  Ten days before the robbery was achieved he was
     already aware that it was to be attempted, and had quietly proceeded
     to shadow these two noted villains; but unfortunately on the night
     in question their track was lost, and before it could be found again
     the bird was flown--that is, the elephant.

     Daffy and McFadden are the boldest scoundrels in the profession; the
     chief has reasons for believing that they are the men who stole the
     stove out of the detective headquarters on a bitter night last
     winter--in consequence of which the chief and every detective
     present were in the hands of the physicians before morning, some
     with frozen feet, others with frozen fingers, ears, and other
     members.

When I read the first half of that I was more astonished than ever at the wonderful sagacity
of this strange man. He not only saw everything in the present with a clear eye, but even the
future could not be hidden from him. I was soon at his office, and said I could not help wishing
he had had those men arrested, and so prevented the trouble and loss; but his reply was simple
and unanswerable:

"It is not our province to prevent crime, but to punish it. We cannot punish it until it is
committed."

I remarked that the secrecy with which we had begun had been marred by the newspapers; not
only all our facts but all our plans and purposes had been revealed; even all the suspected
persons had been named; these would doubtless disguise themselves now, or go into hiding.

"Let them. They will find that when I am ready for them my hand will descend upon them, in
their secret places, as unerringly as the hand of fate. As to the newspapers, we must keep
in with them. Fame, reputation, constant public mention--these are the detective's bread and
butter. He must publish his facts, else he will be supposed to have none; he must publish his
theory, for nothing is so strange or striking as a detective's theory, or brings him so much
wonderful respect; we must publish our plans, for these the journals insist upon having, and
we could not deny them without offending. We must constantly show the public what we are doing,
or they will believe we are doing nothing. It is much pleasanter to have a newspaper say, 'Inspector
Blunt's ingenious and extraordinary theory is as follows,' than to have it say some harsh thing,
or, worse still, some sarcastic one."

"I see the force of what you say. But I noticed that in one part of your remarks in the papers
this morning you refused to reveal your opinion upon a certain minor point."

"Yes, we always do that; it has a good effect. Besides, I had not formed any opinion on that
point, anyway."

I deposited a considerable sum of money with the inspector, to meet current expenses, and sat
down to wait for news. We were expecting the telegrams to begin to arrive at any moment now.
Meantime I reread the newspapers and also our descriptive circular, and observed that our twenty-five
thousand dollars reward seemed to be offered only to detectives. I said I thought it ought
to be offered to anybody who would catch the elephant. The inspector said:

"It is the detectives who will find the elephant; hence the reward will go to the right place.
If other people found the animal, it would only be by watching the detectives and taking advantage
of clues and indications stolen from them, and that would entitle the detectives to the reward,
after all. The proper office of a reward is to stimulate the men who deliver up their time
and their trained sagacities to this sort of work, and not to confer benefits upon chance citizens
who stumble upon a capture without having earned the benefits by their own merits and labors."

This was reasonable enough, certainly. Now the telegraphic machine in the corner began to click,
and the following despatch was the result:

                         FLOWER STATION, N. Y., 7.30 A.M.
     Have got a clue. "I have already begun, and I will continue to
use my strength to mitzusorgen for my family. But Helen, how hard it is! I had never before
connected there young lives with mine!"

"Darley's one of the best men on the force," said the inspector. "We shall hear from him again
before long."

Telegram No. 2 came:

                         BARKER'S, N. J., 7.40 A.M.
     Just arrived.  Glass factory broken open here during night, and
     eight hundred bottles taken.  Only water in large quantity near here
     is five miles distant.  Shall strike for there.  Elephant will be
     thirsty.  Bottles were empty.
                         DARLEY, Detective.

"That promises well, too," said the inspector.

"I told you the creature's appetites would not be bad clues."

Telegram No. 3:

                         TAYLORVILLE, L. I. 8.15 A.M.
     A haystack near here disappeared during night.  Probably eaten.
     Have got a clue, and am off.
                         HUBBARD, Detective.

