PICTURES OF JEWISH HOME-LIFE FIFTY YEARS AGO

By HANNAH TRAGER

Author of Stories of Child-Life in Palestine Festival Stories of Child-Life in Palestine Pioneers
in Palestine

WITH A PREFATORY LETTER BY LEO JUNG

WITH FOUR PLATES AND A GLOSSARY

NEW YORK BLOCH PUBLISHING CO., Inc.

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY THE STANHOPE PRESS, LTD. ROCHESTER

               To
        MY BELOVED PARENTS
in reverence and gratitude for their
    beautiful and holy example

FOREWORD

My dear Mrs. Trager,

It gives me great pleasure to write a preface to your new book. I consider it a real privilege,
since it represents the fulfilment of a hope expressed some five years ago. When you sent me
the first article for "The Sinaist" I told you that your pen would win the love and the esteem
not only of the child, but essentially also of the adult readers.

The simple joyousness of your style, the beauty and freshness of the atmosphere, which you
very well succeed in bringing to the pages of your books, the strength of your faith, and the
vividness of your description, the love of Jew above the love of Palestine, all these combine
to render your volumes valuable additions to the small stock of good Jewish literature in English.
It is not only that you teach, while talking so pleasantly; that you instruct while you interest
and amuse; that you have your own personality in the stories; that you convey the charm of
Eretz Israel, and the beauty of holiday spirit; but because your stories help us to feel the
depth of faith and the height of ideal as the self-evident, normal factors of Jewish life.

For the children of our age, both young and old, should know that that God-consciousness of
the Jew, that wondrous sense of eternity in his mission, is not a laboriously acquired conviction,
not the result of some spasmodic effort of grasping the innermost meaning of our history, but
the natural pervading spirit of Jewish life, the air which the Jew breathes, when he lives
with Torah as his guide and Mitzvah as his ladder towards heaven.

They who read your stories conceive a deep love of Judaism, they find a desire growing in them
to live the life which produces such happiness and goodness, they will want to study the Law
and lore, of which that life is an outward expression. I have given your tales to children
in various countries and all of them were enchanted with them, regretting that "there were
only two books by Mrs. Trager." I am glad indeed to find that another one is coming out. And
it is in the interest of our youth that I hope you will give us every year some of these nourishing
and very palatable fruits of your pen.

You will thereby be doing an additional bit for our God and our people whom you are serving
so loyally. You reinterpret to the Jewish youth of to-day the treasures they are so carelessly
abandoning, you will shed light and reawaken love and hope in the heart of many a Jew, who
seemed to feel that our glorious faith had no message for the child of to-day, unless it were
shorn by our 'religious' barbers, robbed of its native beauty and reduced to some platform-commonplace.
As a lamented London Maggid told me, "There still live some real soldiers of God." Such are
those who use persuasion from the pulpit, such as shine through the example of their own humane
Jewishness and such as capture our hearts by artless beautiful tales of Jewish life and lore.

I wish you every success in the world,

Yours very sincerely,

LEO JUNG

CONTENTS

THE ARRIVAL IN JERUSALEM THE WELCOME THE CELEBRATION OF PURIM THE BAKING OF MATZOS LAG B'OMER
THE SABBATH IN PALESTINE THE SUCCAH HOW CHARITY IS GIVEN FATHER FROST IN JERUSALEM ENGAGEMENT
AND WEDDING CEREMONIES JUBILEE OF ZORACH BARNETT GLOSSARY

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

THE FATHER TEACHING THE CHILD THE MEANING OF THE TSITSITH CHADAR (SCHOOL) YENSHVA (TALMUDICAL
SCHOOL) THE OLD LADY

THE ARRIVAL IN JERUSALEM

On a Friday afternoon everyone was very busy in Benjamin's home washing and dressing to go
to Shule. The mother was getting the living-room clean and tidy for the Sabbath.

THE OFFENCE

The family lived in a few rooms off Commercial Road, in one of the many back streets. The underground
kitchen had to be used as the dining-and sitting-room, for they had not been many years in
England and it was a hard struggle for Benjamin's parents to make ends meet and provide for
a large family.

The father and the elder boys were dressing as best they could in this room. Just then the
mother came in, very excited, and said to her husband: "What will you say to this? I gave Benjamin
his Sabbath clothes and a clean tsitsith, and what do you think he did?"

"What?" asked the father, and stopped brushing his clothes.

"Why, he took the tsitsith and threw it on the floor, and said he would never wear it again.
I punished him, and told him to put it on again. So you had better go to him and give him what
he deserves."

"You are rather hasty, my dear wife," said the father; "for, before punishing him, you should
have asked him why he did such a thing."

"What!" exclaimed the mother, "do you think I have nothing else to do but to stand and argue
with him just before Sabbath, when I have so much work? You are far too easy-going, Jacob--you
should really be firmer with the children."

"No, no!" said Jacob, who was a kindly man and understood human nature better than his hasty,
but well-meaning and loving, wife. The struggle and constant hard work in keeping the home
of a large family was telling upon her, and any disobedience in the children irritated her
very much.

"We must not be hasty with the children," continued Jacob, "especially now-a-days, for they
live under different circumstances from those we knew when we were young. Instead of hastily
scolding and punishing them, let us rather quietly reason with them, when possible, and show
them where they are wrong."

"Perhaps you may be right," said Benjamin's mother; "so let us leave the matter till you return
from Shule and have had our Sabbath meal--then you can quietly ask Benjamin why he acted as
he did."

THE BOY BENJAMIN

An elder brother was sent to call Benjamin to go to Shule with his father and brothers. Benjamin
expected a scolding from his father similar to that which he had had from his mother, so he
came into the room looking very sulky. As nothing was said to him on the subject when he came
into the room, he took his prayer-book, and followed his father to Shule.

Benjamin was like many other boys of 13, not very clever, but blessed with a good deal of common
sense. His great ambition was to become a teacher, and so he worked steadily at his lessons.
His reason for wishing to be a teacher was that he wanted to rule and to punish boys as his
master did. Whenever he had a caning from his headmaster he always consoled himself with the
thought that his turn would come some day--when he was a teacher--to do the same to other boys.

When they returned from Shule and nothing was said, even at the evening meal, about the way
Benjamin had annoyed his mother, he was rather surprised. His mother, during the time they
were at Shule, had made the living-room, which was really the kitchen, look so clean and bright
with the five lighted candles placed on the snow-white table-cloth, and the old stove so well
polished, that it almost looked as bright as a looking glass. What interested the young ones
most was the saucepan which stood on one side of the stove waiting for its contents to be put
on the table, and, oh, how they enjoyed the sweet savour which came from it!

FRIDAY EVE

They all gathered round the table to welcome the Princess Sabbath. The father made kiddush,
and the wine cup was handed round to all. Then they washed their hands and said a prayer before
sitting down to the evening meal, which passed off very pleasantly, and zmires (or songs or
psalms of praise) were sung at intervals during the meal.

When the meal was ended, and the grace said by the father, they all separated: one or two went
out for a walk, while the other members of the family took a newspaper or a book and quietly read.

When the table was cleared, the mother sat down to rest. Grateful, indeed, was she for this
Sabbath rest after her week's hard work. She often said that, for such as herself, no blessing
was as great as the command: "Thou shalt not do any work on the Sabbath."

WORD OF LOVE

When all were quietly settled down, Benjamin's father took him between his knees, and said:
"My son, I wish to ask you something, and I want you to answer my question frankly and truly.
What made you throw the tsitsith down on the floor this afternoon and say to your mother that
you would not wear it?"

The boy Benjamin dropped his head and was silent for a minute or two, for to hear his father
speak in a kindly way made Benjamin far more ashamed of himself and his deed than if his father
had scolded him and given him a whipping--in fact, he felt so wretched that he longed to run
out of the room and hide himself from everybody. His father's knowledge of human nature made
him understand what was passing through Benjamin's mind, and he said: "Do not fear to tell
me, my son, why you acted in such an unusual way, for there must be some reason for a Jewish
boy to act so."

With his head still down, Benjamin said: "When I go swimming in the baths, my school-fellows
see my tsitsith when I undress, and they make fun of it and pull it about, and say all sorts
of nasty things to me for wearing it, and it makes me feel I cannot stand it any longer. I
will gladly put on my tsitsith at home in the morning when I say my prayers, but, Father, do
let me go to school without wearing it?"

"I expected something like this," said his father, looking at his wife. "Listen to me, my child--instead
of being ashamed, you should feel it a privilege to wear tsitsith."

"But I can't see why," said Benjamin.

"Well," said his father, "I will tell you the idea of the tsitsith. When you say the Shema
twice a day, as every good Jew is expected to do, you read in it that God commanded us, through
Moses, to wear a fringe on our garment--the tsitsith, a visible sign to remind us of His Commandments,
just in the same way as a table, spread ready for a meal, reminds us of our meals. Our religion
is not a thing to be kept only for the Sabbath and the Holy Days, and left out of our minds
on all other days. Our religion must be a living influence, always with us, so the tsitsith
is a very simple kind of symbol to be ever worn to remind a Jew of his God, his duty to Him
and to his neighbour. It is not only we Jews who have religious symbols; every other religion
has them. Now imagine if you were to go up to a Christian boy and mock him and say nasty words
to him for wearing a cross, or crucifix, he would turn round and fight you, and he would be
right in doing so, for no one has a right to insult another for wearing or doing what he believes
to be holy. Instead of being ashamed when you were mocked and laughed at by Christian boys
for wearing your tsitsith, you should have asked them to hear you explain the reason for wearing
it. I am sure they would not have laughed at you any more. They would respect you for trying
to be true and to live up to your convictions.

"We Jews have, in the past, made a great mistake in not letting the outside world know more
of the deeper spiritual meaning of each of our symbols. Had we not done this, we should have
been better understood by non-Jews, and our children would not have suffered as you and many
others also have done, through the ignorant mocking of your Christian schoolmates.

"I know that in Palestine the Jews, whether old or young, greatly love to wear their tsitsith,
and take a pride in letting them be seen, so that the Arabs and the Turks look upon the tsitsith
as a sacred garment."

UNCLE'S LETTER

"How do you know this, Father?" said Benjamin.

By this time all in the room had dropped their papers and books, and were listening to their
father.

"Well, this is how I know: nearly thirty years ago my uncle and his family went to live in
Jerusalem, and for many years one of my cousins used to write to me about once a month. His
letters were most interesting. When his letters came I could almost imagine, when reading them,
that I was living in Bible times.

"Have you any of his letters still, Father?" they all exclaimed.

"Yes," said the father, "I have many of them."

"Oh, do read some of them to us!" they pleaded. "All right, I will; and I will first try to
find the one about the tsitsith."

The father went up to his bedroom, and soon came down with a bundle of letters wrapped in a
newspaper. He started looking through them while all the family stood around him, watching
as eagerly as if he were searching for an heirloom.

"I will choose a very short one," said the father, "for it is on the subject I have spoken
to Benjamin about; but if you like I will make it a rule every Friday evening, after our Sabbath
meal, to read some of the letters to you."

THE HOLY CITY

When all were quietly and comfortably seated, their father started reading:

"My dear Cousin,--After a great many adventures and suffering (which I will write to you about
another time) we arrived safely in Jerusalem. To me, it seemed rather dull after London, but
both father and mother shed tears of joy when they at last arrived in the Holy City. Some people
met us a little way out, for father had written telling them we were coming. We were almost
royally received and heartily welcomed, for very few Jews come here with their young families.

"We must have looked a sight--you in London could not imagine anything like our cavalcade!
First went Father riding on a mule, with Mother following on another mule. Mother's saddle
was made with pillows, for it is impossible for a woman to ride for sixteen or eighteen hours
without a soft, comfortable seat.

"You go up high hills, and then down again, imagining every time you go down that you will
topple over and fall over the precipice and be killed. In fact, your heart is in your mouth
every five minutes, so that by the time you arrive in Jerusalem (which is surrounded by hills)
you are almost too weak to rejoice at the beauty that greets your sight, for nowhere in the
world can, I think, anything be seen more beautiful than a sunrise over the mountains around
Jerusalem.

"Oh, I forgot to tell you that we youngsters were put into baskets on a camel's back, and how
we were shaken! I felt as if I were praying and shaking all the time, for it seemed as if we
could never get to Jerusalem alive in this way."

THE PROUD BOYS OF JERUSALEM

"At last we entered the Holy City, and arrived at Father's friend's house, where we were made
very welcome and treated most kindly. I soon made friends with the boys, for, you know, I can
speak yiddish quite well.

"They are funny little chaps. They look like old men, with long kaftans (coats) and side ear-locks
of hair, carrying their prayer book or Bible to Shule. The first thing I noticed was the tsitsith.
They wear really long ones, with long fringes hanging down about a quarter of a yard or more.
They wear them as we do a waistcoat, so that they can be seen by everyone, not as we wear them
in England, tucked away out of sight. Here young and old, even little boys who can only just
walk and lisp their prayers, wear them, and, what is more, take a real pleasure in wearing
them. I asked some of them why they wore them so openly, and they answered: 'Because when we
look at them we always remember that our chief duty in life is to try to obey God's commands,
and if we had them tucked away out of sight we should forget to be obedient.' 'Besides,' they
said, 'we are commanded in the Torah to do so openly.' Then I told them if we wore them so
openly in Europe we should perhaps be laughed at by some people and made fun of. They said:
'Why should doing so make us be laughed at by other nations? Do we laugh at the symbols and
charms that many of them wear? Every nation,' they said, 'has its tokens and symbols, and we
Jews have ours, and we should rejoice in wearing ours when they are to help us to feel that
God is near us when we think and act rightly.' All this made me think very seriously, and in
a way I had never thought before. I began to realize that they were more in the right than
we Jews are in England.

"So now I have decided to wear my tsitsith, too, on the outside, as the Jerusalem boys do.
The boys never play except on the quiet, just now and then, for their parents think that their
only duty in life is to study and do as many Mitzvoth as they can. Really, the boys are as
full of fun and pranks as we English boys, and they just love a bit of play and larking when
they can get it.

"I must now end this letter, but I have a lot more to tell you, and I will keep my promise
and write you by degrees of all I see. Meanwhile, I send you the greeting of Zion and Sabbath.
Rachael wanted to put a letter into my envelope to your sister, but she says she has not finished
it yet, although she has already written ten pages. So I will wait no longer, in case I miss
the post, as it goes only once a week from here, and sometimes only once a month."

Thus ended the first letter, and Benjamin's brothers and sisters were so pleased with it that
they were delighted that one of the bundle of letters should be read aloud after the Sabbath
meal on every Friday evening.

Benjamin was quite happy now, for, although he had done a thing which was not right, now that
he had repented good would come out of it, for there was a chance of their now having pleasanter
and more instructive Sabbath evenings than they had ever had before. Besides, he now made up
his mind always to wear his tsitsith.

THE WELCOME

On the following Friday, after the Sabbath evening meal, the boys asked their father to read
them another letter from his cousin in Jerusalem. He was pleased at their eagerness, and, while
Upstairs getting the letter, some of the boys' friends came in and settled comfortably down,
for all were eager to hear the letter read.

Mr Jacob said: "This time I will read a letter from your Cousin Dora to my sister which will
certainly interest you, my dear," turning to his daughter, "but at the same time, I think it
will interest you all."

"My dear Milly,--Isaac must have written to Jacob all about our arrival, so I will begin by
giving you some idea of our life here and my impressions. The people, who so kindly asked us
to stay with them till Father finds a dwelling, have a few rooms in a house, which has a marble
paved courtyard. Six other families also have two or three rooms each. All the work is done
in the courtyard, even the cooking; for each family uses tiny stoves, made of mud, into which
they put a little lighted charcoal and cook just outside or near their own doors; for there
are no kitchens or fireplaces in any of the rooms, and thus we see what each family cooks.
The Sephardim (Jews who have lived here for years) eat their meals in the courtyard. They lay
a mat on the marble tiles, on which they place a small low table, and they sit on the mat and
eat. Two Sephardim families have rooms in the house and they speak Arabic and Spanish, and
their ways of living are more like those of the Turks, just as the Jews in England live more
like the English.

"Everyone seems most interested in us. Many people have come to visit us, to see the new arrivals!

"The evening of the day on which we arrived was Friday; there was a clear moonlight such as
you would not often see in England, and it was very warm, too; so we and our visitors sat in
the courtyard. All eagerly asked us many questions, till quite late; and thus the evening passed
very quickly and pleasantly.

"After prayers on Sabbath some people sent a bottle of wine and a most delicious pudding, which
is made nowhere but in Jerusalem. It tastes like milk and honey, with other tasty things mixed
up in it. Others sent a lovely sponge cake, coated with different-coloured sugar-icing: many
other good things were also given to us; and they lasted us for nearly a month.

"Later in the day the people who sent the eatables paid us visits, and ate some of the good
things. It is rather a nice custom, I think, for new arrivals to have no bother to prepare
food for their visitors, as it gives them time to enjoy their company. What a lot of talking
there was! The men discussed several things with Father, while the women wanted to know many
things about England which Mother could tell them. The boys and girls could not take their
eyes off our clothes, so much did they admire them! It was quite amusing, the funny questions
they asked us about them. They all promised to help us look for a dwelling; and they kept their
promise. I can tell you it was a great help and comfort to us that they did, for I don't know
what would have become of us out here, away from our old friends, where the ways of living
are so different from what we have been used to. Whether it will always be so or not, of course
I can't say--time alone will show.

"Very soon afterwards they found us a vacant dwelling, which Father was very thankful to get,
and in my next letter I will tell you something of our life after we had moved in; but I must
tell you more of what happened when we were staying with our kind host. The first afternoon,
one of our visitors insisted on our I going to her home; so, when I and our youngsters arrived,
we were taken to a room, and in it was a table covered with lovely apricots, and delicious-looking
pastries and jams; also wine which only cost 3d. a bottle, so it is very nearly as cheap as
buying water. When they handed us some of the good things we naturally took them and ate them.

"Suddenly I saw our host's children move away from us saying: 'She is a Shiksa,' and 'He is
a Shakitz,' and they kept on whispering and pointing to us. I could not think what we had done
to make them act in such a way, and so asked their mother. She answered: 'They are surprised
to see you eating without making a Brocha (a blessing), for our children unless they first
make a Brocha never taste anything.'

"You know, dear Milly, that, though we too were taught to do as they here, yet the hurry and
scurry of going to school and the busy life in London have made us forget to practise these
religious laws. We, however, felt very uncomfortable and ashamed of ourselves, and made up
our minds to get into the habit of doing it--that is to remember to thank our Creator for every
blessing we receive, including food--so that it should become a matter-of-course.

"Now I must tell you about our water-supply, for the scarcity of water struck us, very much,
coming from London; for here every drop is precious and is used for several things, as every
drop has to be bought, and money amongst our Jerusalem brethren is very scarce. In fact, it
often costs more than the wine of the country.

"A water-carrier brings us up every morning a skin bag of water (it is made of skins sewn together,
with a small outlet at the top); for it we pay twopence, which is equal to more than a shilling
in London. The water that he brings he pours into a large earthern jar, which keeps it cool,
and to it is attached over the mouth of the jar a sieve which is made of thick unbleached calico:
if this were not done, hundreds of little red worms would get into the jar, because the water
in Palestine is full of them. A law was made by the Jews that to drink water that had not been
passed through a sieve was a sin; and, as little children are taught not to commit any sin,
they do not drink any water that has not been passed through a sieve; owing to this, many illnesses
are prevented among the Jews that are rampant among the Arabs and others.

"The Jews are also very careful about their water for ordinary use, yet they really employ
it more plentifully than we do in London when used in connection with laws of health as laid
down in the Shulchan Aruch (a book of laws). For example, as soon as you step out of your bed,
you pour water over your hands, wash your face, gargle your throat, and rub your teeth with
a clean finger and rinse your mouth. No one would think of moving out of the room without doing
this. I know among the very orthodox Jews in London they do the same thing, but the average
Jew does not do it, and here it is done by everyone--even a baby is taught to do it the same way.

"Later in the day, or when the men go to Synagogue, and we have finished with our household
duties, we have the regular soap-and-water wash. Then again, everytime we have a meal we have
to wash our hands and repeat a blessing; and, as this is done at various other times in a large
family, it takes a good deal of water, but as it is used for cleaning purposes we need not
stint ourselves. This law is especially valuable here, for it is very hot, and, if we were
not very clean and especially careful about cleansing our eyes and mouths and throat, we should
run the risk of catching a great many diseases which are quite common in the Holy Land at present.

"I remarked to some women that it surprised me how much water was used for personal washing
considering how scarce it was, but they told me that they were as careful with every drop of
water as they were with food; none was wasted. Where the religious laws commanded the use of
water for personal washing and cleansing they did not grudge it; for was not the body of man
the temple where the Holy Spirit of God dwelt? God's spirit is in each one of us, and, therefore,
we must do our best to keep our bodies clean for the presence of our Heavenly King, just as
carefully as we should keep a house or palace clean in which our earthly king dwelt--more carefully
indeed. What would courtiers around an earthly king say if they saw us take our food in the
presence of the king, and praise him, with dirty hands?

"They save water in many ways that are rather amusing to a stranger until he gets to know the
reason for it. For instance, they do not, at meals, use different plates on the Sabbath, when
they have a few courses: they eat the fish on one side of the plate, and then they wipe it
and turn the plate over, and have soup and meat on the deeper side--thus saving the washing
of many plates.

"In my next letter I will write you all my tribulations and struggles in getting used to the
new life when we moved into our own house. My great comfort is that we have got to know an
American family, and they have been so kind to us and so cheery that it has made us feel a
bit brighter, and Mother says that in time we shall get used to our new life. But I doubt it
after living in London."

When Mr Jacob had finished reading the letter the young folks began talking, the older ones
listening and giving a smile now and then.

One said: "I should not like to be there."

"Neither should I," said another girl; "it must be awful after London."

"The only thing that I like about the life," said the former, "is the hospitality and the friendliness
that they show to one another, and the jolly good time they give to people who are utter strangers
to them. We don't do that here--we seem cold and unfriendly."

THE CELEBRATION OF PURIM

As had now become a custom, the young friends of the Jacobs had all collected on the next Friday
evening in the bright and warm kitchen-sitting room. After a short friendly chat with them
Mr Jacobs said:

"As Purim will begin in two days, perhaps you would like to hear how our cousins saw it celebrated
when they went to Palestine, so I have chosen this letter to read to you this evening:

"In Jerusalem a week is none too long to prepare for Purim. As you know, when we lived in London
we always were strict about keeping our holy days; but while there I never realized the pleasure
and excitement during Purim that one sees in Jerusalem.

"Old and young are equally full of fun and joy, and there is plenty of rushing about with sleeves
tucked up. At other times the women here gossip a great deal, and the girls naturally copy
their elders and gossip too; but, when preparing for Purim, they are all too busy to talk or
even to ask questions. The boys, too, up to the age of twelve, are allowed to help. Some break
up the big pieces of loaf-sugar, and beat up the eggs, and take the cakes, when ready, to the
public ovens, for here there are no proper ovens as there are in London houses, so a public
oven is built not far from the Synagogue. It is very large, and each family sends its cakes
in its own tins to be baked in it. Generally about half a dozen tins are carried by each boy.
Nothing I have seen before can be compared with the many kinds of delicious cakes and stuffed
monkeys that are seen here. My mouth waters even when I think of the delicious strudels filled
with sesames and plenty of raisins and shiros! These things are very cheap here.

"As there are not many boys free to help, you see quite young children, as well as young women
and even grandmothers, going to and from the public oven, carrying tins of all the Purim delicacies.
As they wait while the cakes are being baked, or waiting their turn to have their cakes put
in, oh! what a chatter there is, and I imagine nowhere else can there be anything like it.
I called it the 'Female Club' instead of 'An Old Maids Club,' as Mr Zangwill did, for there
were no old maids waiting near the oven.

"Most of them come as early as 5 a.m., and none care to leave till they have their cakes baked,
for, if you do, your tins will be pushed aside as you are not there to scream at and scold
the baker--if someone slips a copper into his hand he, on the quiet, puts their tins in first,
though they may have come later!

"Besides, if you are not there to watch carefully (for the tins are not named or numbered),
someone might take your tins in exchange for his own, if the cakes, etc., look more tempting.
During Purim this is not looked upon as stealing, but merely as a joke or a bit of fun. The
youngsters will not move an inch unless they can trust someone to take their place. So I leave
you to try to imagine the noise and the chatter. There is probably not a thing that has happened
in Jerusalem during the last two months that is not discussed around the public oven while
people are waiting for their cake-tins; and, as everyone wants to talk rather than to listen,
the noise is like the buzz in a factory.

"After all the cooking and so forth was finished, of course we had to keep the Fast of Esther,
and everyone, even babies went to Shule to hear the Megilla (the Book of Esther) read; and,
when the Chazan came to Haman, the Gragers went off with just such a noise as they do in the
London Shules in Old Montague Street or Booth Street. Then we went home; and after the evening
meal the joyfulness began, for they did not wait till the next day, as we do in England.

