A great fault with many batters is that they try to hit the ball too hard. This is especially
true of the younger players, the "colts," as they are called. A young player with a reputation
as a hitter in some minor league, goes into a big club and at once thinks he must hit the ball
over the fence. The result is that he doesn't hit it at all, and unless he corrects his fault,
he goes on "fanning the atmosphere" until he is handed his release. And yet the same player,
if he would steady himself down and once get started hitting might do just as well as he did
in his former club.

And this brings up the reflection that there is a great virtue in confidence. The player who
goes timidly to the bat with his mind made up that he can't hit, anyhow, might just as well
keep his seat. But the one who walks up, saying to himself, "Other men hit this ball, and I
can, too," will be inspired by his own confidence, and for that very reason he will be more
likely to hit. So it is that batting goes so much by streaks. A nine that has not made a hit
for several innings will suddenly start in and bat out a victory. One player leads off with
a good hit and is followed by another and another, each benefited by the confidence and enthusiasm
the preceding batters have aroused.

It goes without saying that the player's eyesight must be perfect or he can never hope to be
a good batter. It requires the keenest kind of an eye to keep track of the ball and tell when
it is over the plate and at the proper height.

So, too, the nerves must be kept in good condition or the player will be unable to resist the
temptation to hit at wide balls. A nervous batter is easily "worked," because he is so anxious
to hit that he can't wait for a good ball.

But the most important attribute of all in the composition of a good batter is courage. In
this term I include the self-control and the resolution by which a man will force himself to
stand before the swiftest and wildest pitching without flinching, the fearlessness that can
contemplate the probability of a blow from the ball without allowing the judgment to be affected.
Out of ten poor batters nine are so because they are afraid of being hit. It is often asked,
"Why are pitchers, as a rule, such poor batters?" and to this the answer in my own mind has
always been that it is because they know so well the danger which the batter incurs. There
is perhaps no such thing as absolute fearlessness; the batter who has once been hit hard--and
all of them have--will never quite forget the occurrence, and he will forever after have the
respect for the ball that a burned child has for the fire. But some men will not allow this
feeling to overcome them.

It is absolutely necessary, then, to first conquer one's self, to fight down fear and forget
everything except that the ball must be hit. To some, this seems not a difficult matter, to
many it comes only after the most determined effort and schooling of the nerves, while to a
few it seems to be an utter impossibility. The instinct of self-preservation is such a controlling
power with them that unconsciously they draw away from the ball, and, try as they will, they
cannot stand up to the plate. The player who cannot overcome this feeling will never be a good
hitter, though when he finds that he is a victim he should not give up without a struggle.
Some players have broken themselves of the habit of running away from the plate by stepping
back with the rear foot, instead of forward with the forward foot, when in the act of hitting.
Thompson, of Detroit, who is a remarkably good hitter, steps backward instead of forward. Others,
like Hecker, of Louisville, step neither way, but hit as they stand, simply throwing the body
forward. Every expedient should be tried before the case is given up as incurable. In my own
case I was forced to change from right to left-hand hitting. I had been hit so hard several
times that I grew afraid of the ball and contracted the habit of stepping away from the plate.
It was a nervous fear over which I had no control, and the habit became so confirmed that I
resolved to turn around left-handed. I thought that in learning to hit the new way I could
avoid the mistakes into which I had before fallen. It took time and practice to learn, but
the result, I think, has been an improvement. While not able to hit so hard left-handed, because
the muscles are not yet so strong, I make more single hits, reach first base oftener, and score
more runs.

CHAPTER XIII. THE BASE-RUNNER.

Of the four departments of play, batting, base-running, fielding, and battery work, the most
interesting is base-running. It is the most skillful, it calls into play the keenest perception
and the soundest judgment, it demands agility and speed, and it requires more daring, courage,
and enthusiasm than all the others combined.

Its importance as a factor in winning games cannot be estimated. We only know that a team of
base-runners wins game after game in which it is out-batted and out-fielded by its opponents.
No system of scoring has been or can be devised by which a full record of this kind of work
can be kept. The system now in vogue, crediting the number of bases stolen, is all right so
far as it goes, but it covers only a small part of the ground. Stealing bases is a part of
base-running, but it is a very small part, and to say that the player who steals the most bases
is therefore the best base-runner, is an altogether unwarranted statement. A quick starter,
speedy runner, and clever slider might easily steal the most bases, and yet in general usefulness
fall far behind some other player.

Beginning with the more mechanical features, the first qualification for a base-runner is the
ability to start quickly. The distances on a ball field have been laid out with such marvelous
nicety that every fraction of a second is valuable. Almost every play is close, and the loss
of an instant of time is often the loss of the opportunity.

But to start quickly means more than a quick action of the muscles; it means also that the
brain and body must act together. The base-runner who must wait to be told what to do will
always be too late. By the time the coacher has seen the point and called to the runner and
the latter has gotten himself into action, the chance has long passed. The player must be able
to see the play himself and act upon it instantly, without waiting to be told.

Different runners adopt different methods for getting a long start from a base. Some take as
much ground as possible before the pitch and then start the moment they see the first motion
to deliver. Others stand near the base, and when they think it about time for the pitcher to
pitch make a start. If they happen to guess aright they get a running start, which is, of course,
a great advantage. And if they guess wrong, the pitcher is so taken by surprise that it is
always possible to return to the base before he can throw. Of the two methods I prefer the
latter. Remaining near the base disarms suspicion, and the runner is not tired out, by repeated
feints to throw, on the part of the pitcher.

In either case the practice of standing with the feet wide apart is altogether wrong and in
violation of every principle of quick starting. Unlike a sprinter, a base-runner must be in
shape to start in either direction, and this can be done best and quickest by standing upright
with the feet almost together. A second qualification is speed. While, as before said, mere
speed will not make a base-runner, in the full sense of the term, yet, other things being equal,
the faster runner will be the better base-runner. Straight away running is something to which
ball players do not devote sufficient attention. While, to a certain extent, it is a natural
gift, yet every man can improve himself greatly by practice, and if the spring training of
players included more of this work, the result would certainly be an improvement in the base-running.
Notwithstanding the importance of starting and running and sliding, there is absolutely no
attention given these matters, and, consequently, the majority of players seem to be entirely
ignorant of the proper "form." It would be a good investment for some clubs to employ a professional
sprinter to teach their men how to stand, in order to start quickly, and how to put one foot
in front of the other in the approved form.

An important aid also to successful base-running is the knack of sliding well. A player skillful
in this respect will often save himself when he seems caught beyond escape. Every runner should
know how to slide if he expects to accomplish anything at all, and every man will slide who
has the proper interest in his work. Some players do not do so because they have never learned
and are afraid to try, while others seem to care so little for the team's success that they
are unwilling to take the chances of injury to themselves. As for the former class, a half
hour's practice on sawdust or soft earth will show them how easily it is learned, and as for
the latter, they should be made to slide, even if it be found necessary to persuade them through
their pockets.

Sliding, as an art, is of recent growth, though it has long been the practice of base-runners
to drop to avoid being touched. In view of its present importance it is amusing to read, in
an article written on the subject some years ago, an argument against the practice indulged
in by a few players of sliding to the base in order to avoid being touched by the ball.

The old style of sliding was with the feet foremost, but there are now various methods employed.
Many runners now slide head foremost, throwing themselves flat on the breast and stomach. Some
keep to the base-line and slide direct for the base, while others throw the body and legs out
of the line and reach for the base with a hand or foot. Among those who always slide feet first
and direct for the base, Hanlon is the most successful. He doesn't go down until quite close
to the base, and then does not at all slacken his speed. Connor also slides feet foremost,
but instead of throwing himself at full length, he maintains a sitting posture, and each of
his slides is the signal for a laugh from the crowd. On account of his size and the weight
behind his spikes, he is always given the entire base-line without dispute. Williamson is a
very successful slider. He runs at full speed until near the base and then throws his body
away from the baseman and his feet at the base. The successful runners who slide flat on the
stomach are Fogarty, Tiernan, Miller, Andrews, Brown and others. Of those who go in head foremost
but throw the body out of the line and away from the baseman, are Ewing, Glasscock, Pfeffer,
Dalrymple and some others.

An expert base-runner will confine himself to no particular style, but, being familiar with
all, will use, in each instance, the one best suited. Sometimes one style is best and sometimes
another, depending upon where the ball is thrown and the position of the baseman. I consider
Kelly the best all-round slider in the League, because he can, and does, use every style with
equal freedom.

The American Association has some of the finest runners in Nicoll, Latham, Stovey, Purcell,
and many others, but I have, unfortunately, not seen enough of their work to speak accurately
of their methods.

Though stealing bases is only a part of base-running, yet even this requires considerable skill,
and it is by no means always the fastest runner who succeeds the oftenest. Much depends on
the start, and much, too, on the slide. I may be permitted to outline my own method: Having
reached first, I signal to the next batter when I am going to steal. Then, standing near the
base, well upright and with my feet together, I try to get a running start on the pitcher;
that is, when I think he is about to pitch, though he has yet made no motion, I make my start.
If he does pitch I get all the ground that I would have had by playing off the base in the
first place, and I have, besides, the advantage of being on the move. Every one who knows anything
of sprinting will appreciate the advantages of such a start. If the pitcher does not pitch
I usually manage to return to the base in safety. Having secured my start, I expect that the
batter will hit the ball, if it is a good one, into right-field, in which case I will keep
right on to third base; or, if it is a bad ball, the batter will at east hit at it, in order,
if possible, to blind the catcher and help me out. In any event I put down my head and run
direct for the base, and in no case do I attempt to watch the ball. It is a foolish and often
fatal mistake for a runner to keep his head turned toward the catcher while running in another
direction. If the ball is hit I listen for the coacher's direction, but if it is not, I keep
my eye on the baseman, and by watching his movements, the expression of his face, and the direction
he is looking, I can tell as certainly just where the throw is going as though I saw the ball.
If he stands in front of the line I run back of him, and if he is back of the line I slide
in front. In every case, and whether I go in head or feet foremost, I throw my body away from
the baseman so as to give him the least possible surface to touch with the ball.

There is an advantage in sliding head foremost, in that the runner, by falling forward, gains
the length of his body and the reach of his arm, whereas in sliding feet foremost, he loses
this. But if one always goes in head foremost, the baseman, knowing what to expect and standing
in no fear of injury, will block the base-line. It seems necessary to occasionally throw the
spikes in first in order to retain one's right to the line and command a proper respect from
opposing basemen.

In order that the runner may not be continually cut and bruised by gravel or rough ground he
should protect his hips and knees by pads. Some have the padding stitched to the inside of
the pants, and for the knees this is the better plan, though it interferes somewhat with the
washing of the uniform. But for the hips I prefer the separate pads, which may be bought at
any store for the sale of base-ball goods. The best make is buttoned to a strap which hinds
tightly the lower portion of the body, and this latter feature is itself of great advantage;
not only as a matter of comfort and safety, but also for the sake of decency, every player
should wear one of these straps, the same as athletes do in other branches of sport.

But, after all, the important factors in successful base-running are yet to be spoken of, and
the foregoing points are merely mechanical aids. There is no other department of play in which
intelligence plays so important a part, and no matter how clever the player as a starter, runner,
or slider, these faculties will be of little value unless directed by a quick perception and
sound judgment. Indeed, they will often serve only as traps to lead him into difficulty.

By its very nature a quick perception is an inborn faculty of the mind, and while it may be
developed by constant use, no amount of coaching can create it. There are some players who
are no more capable of becoming good base-runners than of living under water, so unfitted are
they by nature. The power of grasping a situation and acting upon it at once is something which
cannot be taught.

In order, however, to know when a fair opportunity presents itself, the runner must be familiar
with the chances of play, and this comes only from experience and close observation. A runner
who is thoroughly alive to all the possibilities of the game will see a chance and gain a point
where another of less ready perception would find no opening. The former has learned to marshal
at a glance all the attendant probabilities and possibilities and to estimate, in the same
instant, the chances of success or failure.

It is not, however, always best to accept an opportunity when presented, even where the chances
of success are largely in the runner's favor. The stages of the game must be taken into consideration,
and what may be a perfectly commendable play in one situation may be altogether reckless and
foolhardy in another. Therefore, the most important faculty of all, the pendulum which regulates,
and the rudder which guides, is judgment. An illustration may make my meaning clear. In the
ninth inning, with a runner on first base and the score a tie, it may be a good play for the
runner to attempt to steal second, because from there a single hit may send him home. But suppose
that, instead of the score being a tie, the side at bat is four or five runs behind, of what
possible use will the steal be now, even if successful? One run will do no good, and the only
chance of victory is in the following batters also getting around the bases. But the hits or
errors by which this must be accomplished will also send the first runner home without a steal,
so that in attempting to steal he takes a chance which is of no advantage if successful, and
perhaps a fatal mistake if not.

Again, suppose there is a runner on third and none out and the batter hits a short fly to the
out-field, on the catch of which it is doubtful whether the runner can score. If the next batter
is a good hitter, he will not make the attempt, trusting to the next hit for a better chance.
But if the next batter is weak and not likely to offer as good a chance he may decide to try
for the run on the small chance already presented. These are only given as examples and they
might be multiplied, because the same problem will always present itself in a more or less
imperative form every time the runner has a play to make. The question he must always decide
is, "Is this the best play, everything considered?" It goes without saying that he must answer
this for himself. In conclusion, I will describe some plays that may arise and venture some
observations, running through which the reader may discern the general principles of base-running.

There is an element in base-ball which is neither skill nor chance, and yet it is a most important
factor of success. It is the unseen influence that wins in the face of the greatest odds. It
is the element, the presence of which in a team is often called "luck," and its absence a "lack
of nerve." It is sometimes spoken of as "young blood," because the younger players, as a general
rule, are more susceptible to its influence. Its real name is enthusiasm, and it is the factor,
in the influence of which, is to be found the true explanation of the curious standing of some
clubs. Between two teams of equal or unequal strength the more enthusiastic will generally
win. The field work may be slow and steady, but at the bat and on the bases there must be dash
and vim.

If, for example, it be found that a catcher is a poor thrower, or a pitcher slow in his movements,
every fair runner reaching first should immediately attempt to steal second, and even third.
This style of play will demoralize an opposing team quicker than anything else, and even if
unsuccessful at first, and the first few runners be caught, it should still be kept up for
a couple of innings, because it will, at least, affect the nerves of some of the opposing players,
and if a break does come, the victory will be an easy one. Every batter should be ready to
take his place quickly at the bat, and hit at the first good ball; every runner should be on
the move; and with plenty of coaching, and everybody full of enthusiasm, it is only necessary
to get the run-getting started in order to have it go right along. This is the game that is
winning in base-ball to-day, as every observant spectator knows.

Base-running begins the moment the ball is hit. There are some players who don't know how to
drop their bats and get away from the plate. Some stand until they see whether the hit is safe,
and they run to first with the head twisted around to watch the ball. The instant the ball
is hit, no matter where it goes, the batter should drop the bat and start for the base; leaving
the ball to take care of itself, he should put down his head and run, looking neither to the
right nor the left. Every foot gained may be of vital importance, for in most cases the runner
is thrown out by the distance of only a few feet.

Some runners make a mistake in jumping for the base with the last step. It not only loses time
but makes the decision so plain to the umpire that the runner fails to receive his fair share
of benefit from close plays.

A runner to first on a base hit or fly to the outfield should always turn first base and lead
well down toward second, so that if the ball is fumbled or handled slowly or missed, he may
be able to reach second. And by hurrying the out-fielder he increases the probability of an error.

A runner should always run at the top of his speed, except in the single case where he feels
himself to be clearly within reach of his base and then slackens up in order to draw the throw.

At no other time is there anything to be gained by slow running, and often there is much to
be lost. In the game spoken of elsewhere in this book, between Providence and Chicago, which
virtually decided the championship for 1882, Hines was on first when Joe Start hit what looked
like a home-run over the centre-field fence. The wind caught the ball and held it back so that
it struck the top of the netting and fell back into the field. Hines, thinking the hit perfectly
safe, was jogging around the bases when the ball was returned to the in-field. Start had run
fast and overtaken Hines, and the result was that instead of a run scored, a man on third and
no one out, both runners were put out and we lost the game by one run, and the championship
by that one game. A player has no right to "think this or that;" his sole duty is to run hard
until the play is over.

When a runner is on first and a hit is made he should run fast to second, and if possible force
the throw to third. Every such throw offers an opportunity for error, and the more of these
the runner can force the more chances there will be in his favor. By getting quickly to second
he is in a position to go on to third if the ball is fumbled or slowly handled, or returned
to the wrong point on the in-field.

So, too, a runner on second, when a hit is made, should always force the throw to the home
plate, even if he does not intend to try for the run. In order to do this he must run hard
to third and turn the base as though he really meant to go home. Any hesitation or looking
around will fail of the object. The throw home gives the player who hit the ball a chance to
reach second base.

In a game where there is plenty of hitting runners should obviously take fewer chances than
where the hitting is light.

It is usually advisable for a good runner, who leas reached first with two men out, to attempt
to steal second, because then one hit will likely bring him home; whereas if he stays on first
it will require two hits, or two errors in succession, and these are not likely to come, with
two men already out.

