Produce by Wendy Crockett and JC Byers

               Fairy Tales from the Arabian Nights.
                           First Series.

                        Edited by E. Dixon

Note.

The text of the present selection from the Arabian Nights is that of Galland, 1821, slightly
abridged and edited. The edition is designed virginibus puerisque.

E. DIXON. Cambridge, Xmas, 1893.

CONTENTS.

The King of Persia and the Princess of the Sea Prince Beder and the Princess Giauhara (A Sequel
to the Foregoing) The Three Princes and Princess Nouronnihar Prince Ahmed and the Fairy (A
Sequel to the Foregoing) Prince Camaralzaman and the Princess of China The Loss of the Talisman
(A Sequel to the Foregoing) The Story of Zobeide The Story of the King's Son The First Voyage
of Sinbad the Sailor The Second Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor The Third Voyage of Sinbad the
Sailor The Fourth Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor The Fifth Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor The Sixth
Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor

          THE KING OF PERSIA AND THE PRINCESS OF THE SEA.

There once was a king of Persia, who at the beginning of his reign had distinguished himself
by many glorious and successful conquests, and had afterwards enjoyed such profound peace and
tranquillity as rendered him the happiest of monarchs. His only occasion for regret was that
he had no heir to succeed him in the kingdom after his death. One day, according to the custom
of his royal predecessors during their residence in the capital, he held an assembly of his
courtiers, at which all the ambassadors and strangers of renown at his court were present.
Among these there appeared a merchant from a far-distant country, who sent a message to the
king craving an audience, as he wished to speak to him about a very important matter. The king
gave orders for the merchant to be instantly admitted; and when the assembly was over, and
all the rest of the company had retired, the king inquired what was the business which had
brought him to the palace.

'Sire,' replied the merchant, 'I have with me, and beg your majesty to behold, the most beautiful
and charming slave it would be possible to find if you searched every corner of the earth;
if you will but see her, you will surely wish to make her your wife.'

The fair slave was, by the king's commands, immediately brought in, and no sooner had the king
beheld a lady whose beauty and grace surpassed anything he had ever imagined, than he fell
passionately in love with her, and determined to marry her at once. This was done.

So the king caused the fair slave to be lodged in the next finest apartment to his own, and
gave particular orders to the matrons and the women-slaves appointed to attend her, that they
should dress her in the richest robe they could find, and carry her the finest pearl necklaces,
the brightest diamonds, and other the richest precious stones, that she might choose those
she liked best.

The King of Persia's capital was situated in an island; and his palace, which was very magnificent,
was built upon the sea-shore; his window looked towards the sea; and the fair slave's, which
was pretty near it, had also the same prospect, and it was the more pleasant on account of
the sea's beating almost against the foot of the wall.

At the end of three days the fair slave, magnificently dressed, was alone in her chamber, sitting
upon a sofa, and leaning against one of the windows that faced the sea, when the king, being
informed that he might visit her, came in. The slave hearing somebody walk in the room, immediately
turned her head to see who it was. She knew him to be the king; but without showing the least
surprise, or so much as rising from her seat to salute or receive him, she turned back to the
window again as if he had been the most insignificant person in the world.

The King of Persia was extremely surprised to see a slave of so beauteous a form so very ignorant
of the world. He attributed this to the narrowness of her education, and the little care that
had been taken to instruct her in the first rules of civility. He went to her at the window,
where, notwithstanding the coldness and indifference with which she had just now received him,
she suffered herself to be admired, kissed and embraced as much as he pleased, but answered
him not a word.

'My dearest life,' said the king, 'you neither answer, nor by any visible token give me the
least reason to believe that you are listening to me. Why will you still keep to this obstinate
silence, which chills me? Do you mourn for your country, your friends, or your relations? Alas!
is not the King of Persia, who loves and adores you, capable of comforting, and making you
amends for the loss of everything in the world?'

But the fair slave continued her astonishing reserve; and keeping her eyes still fixed upon
the ground, would neither look at him nor utter a word; but after they had dined together in
absolute silence, the king went to the women whom he had assigned to the fair slave as her
attendants, and asked them if they had ever heard her speak.

One of them presently made answer, 'Sire, we have neither seen her open her lips, nor heard
her speak any more than your majesty has just now; we have rendered her our services; we have
combed and dressed her hair, put on her clothes, and waited upon her in her chamber; but she
has never opened her lips, so much as to say, That is well, or, I like this. We have often
asked, Madam, do you want anything? Is there anything you wish for? Do but ask and command
us: but we have never been able to draw a word from her. We cannot tell whether her silence
proceeds from pride, sorrow, stupidity, or dumbness; and this is all we can inform your majesty.'

The King of Persia was more astonished at hearing this than he was before: however, believing
the slave might have some reason for sorrow, he endeavoured to divert and amuse her, but all
in vain. For a whole year she never afforded him the pleasure of a single word.

At length, one day there were great rejoicings in the capital, because to the king and his
silent slave-queen there was born a son and heir to the kingdom. Once more the king endeavoured
to get a word from his wife. 'My queen,' he said, 'I cannot divine what your thoughts are;
but, for my own part, nothing would be wanting to complete my happiness and crown my joy but
that you should speak to me one single word, for something within me tells me you are not dumb:
and I beseech, I conjure you, to break through this long silence, and speak but one word to
me; and after that I care not how soon I die.'

At this discourse the fair slave, who, according to her usual custom, had hearkened to the
king with downcast eyes, and had given him cause to believe not only that she was dumb, but
that she had never laughed in her life, began to smile a little. The King of Persia perceived
it with a surprise that made him break forth into an exclamation of joy; and no longer doubting
but that she was going to speak, he waited for that happy moment with an eagerness and attention
that cannot easily be expressed.

At last the fair slave, breaking her long-kept silence, thus addressed herself to the king:
'Sire,' said she, 'I have so many things to say to your majesty, that, having once broken silence,
I know not where to begin. However, in the first place, I think myself in duty bound to thank
you for all the favours and honours you have been pleased to confer upon me, and to implore
Heaven to bless and prosper you, to prevent the wicked designs of your enemies, and not to
suffer you to die after hearing me speak, but to grant you a long life. Had it never been my
fortune to have borne a child, I was resolved (I beg your majesty to pardon the sincerity of
my intention) never to have loved you, as well as to have kept an eternal silence; but now
I love you as I ought to do.'

The King of Persia, ravished to hear the fair slave speak, embraced her tenderly. 'Shining
light of my eyes,' said he, 'it is impossible for me to receive a greater joy than what you
have now given me.'

The King of Persia, in the transport of his joy, said no more to the fair slave. He left her,
but in such a manner as made her perceive that his intention was speedily to return: and being
willing that his joy should be made public, he sent in all haste for the grand vizier. As soon
as he came, he ordered him to distribute a thousand pieces of gold among the holy men of his
religion, who had made vows of poverty; as also among the hospitals and the poor, by way of
returning thanks to Heaven: and his will was obeyed by the direction of that minister.

After the King of Persia had given this order, he returned to the fair slave again. 'Madam,'
said he, 'pardon me for leaving you so abruptly, but I hope you will indulge me with some conversation,
since I am desirous to know several things of great consequence. Tell me, my dearest soul,
what were the powerful reasons that induced you to persist in that obstinate silence for a
whole year together, though you saw me, heard me talk to you, and ate and drank with me every day.'

To satisfy the King of Persia's curiosity, 'Think,' replied the queen, 'whether or no to be
a slave, far from my own country, without any hopes of ever seeing it again,--to have a heart
torn with grief at being separated for ever from my mother, my brother, my friends, and my
acquaintance,--are not these sufficient reasons for my keeping a silence your majesty has thought
so strange and unaccountable? The love of our native country is as natural to us as that of
our parents; and the loss of liberty is insupportable to every one who is not wholly destitute
of common sense, and knows how to set a value on it.'

'Madam,' replied the king, 'I am convinced of the truth of what you say; but till this moment
I was of opinion that a person beautiful like yourself, whom her evil destiny had condemned
to be a slave, ought to think herself very happy in meeting with a king for her master.'

'Sire,' replied the fair slave, 'whatever the slave is, there is no king on earth who can tyrannise
over her will. But when this very slave is in nothing inferior to the king that bought her,
your majesty shall then judge yourself of her misery, and her sorrow, and to what desperate
attempts the anguish of despair may drive her.'

The King of Persia, in great astonishment, said 'Madam, can it be possible that you are of
royal blood? Explain the whole secret to me, I beseech you, and no longer increase my impatience.
Let me instantly know who are your parents, your brothers, your sisters, and your relations;
but, above all, what your name is.'

'Sire,' said the fair slave, 'my name is Gulnare, Rose of the Sea; and my father, who is now
dead, was one of the most potent monarchs of the ocean. When he died, he left his kingdom to
a brother of mine, named Saleh, and to the queen, my mother, who is also a princess, the daughter
of another powerful monarch of the sea. We enjoyed a profound peace and tranquillity through
the whole kingdom, till a neighbouring prince, envious of our happiness, invaded our dominions
with a mighty army; and penetrating as far as our capital, made himself master of it; and we
had but just time enough to save ourselves in an impenetrable and inaccessible place, with
a few trusty officers who did not forsake us in our distress.

'In this retreat my brother contrived all manner of ways to drive the unjust invader from our
dominions. One day "Sister," said he, "I may fail in the attempt I intend to make to recover
my kingdom; and I shall be less concerned for my own disgrace than for what may possibly happen
to you. To prevent it, and to secure you from all accident, I would fain see you married first:
but in the miserable condition of our affairs at present, I see no probability of matching
you to any of the princes of the sea; and therefore I should be very glad if you would think
of marrying some of the princes of the earth I am ready to contribute all that lies in my power
towards it; and I am certain there is not one of them, however powerful, but would be proud
of sharing his crown with you."

'At this discourse of my brother's, I fell into a violent passion. "Brother," said I, "you
know that I am descended, as well as you, by both father's and mother's side, from the kings
and queens of the sea, without any mixture of alliance with those of the earth; therefore I
do not intend to marry below myself, any more than they did. The condition to which we are
reduced shall never oblige me to alter my resolution; and if you perish in the execution of
your design, I am prepared to fall with you, rather than to follow the advice I so little expected
from you."

'My brother, who was still earnest for the marriage, however improper for me, endeavoured to
make me believe that there were kings of the earth who were nowise inferior to those of the
sea. This put me into a more violent passion, which occasioned him to say several bitter words
that stung me to the quick. He left me as much dissatisfied with myself as he could possibly
be with me; and in this peevish mood I gave a spring from the bottom of the sea up to the island
of the moon.

'Notwithstanding the violent displeasure that made me cast myself upon that island, I lived
content in retirement. But in spite of all my precautions, a person of distinction, attended
by his servants, surprised me sleeping, and carried me to his own house, and wished me to marry
him. When he saw that fair means would not prevail upon me, he attempted to make use of force;
but I soon made him repent of his insolence. So at last he resolved to sell me; which he did
to that very merchant who brought me hither and sold me to your majesty. This man was a very
prudent, courteous, humane person, and during the whole of the long journey, never gave me
the least reason to complain.

'As for your majesty,' continued Queen Gulnare, 'if you had not shown me all the respect you
have hitherto paid, and given me such undeniable marks of your affection that I could no longer
doubt of it, I hesitate not to tell you plainly that I should not have remained with you. I
would have thrown myself into the sea out of this very window, and I would have gone in search
of my mother, my brother, and the rest of my relations; and, therefore, I hope you will no
longer look upon me as a slave, but as a princess worthy of your alliance.'

After this manner Queen Gulnare discovered herself to the King of Persia, and finished her
story. 'My charming, my adorable queen,' cried he, 'what wonders have I heard! I must ask a
thousand questions concerning those strange and unheard-of things which you have related to
me. I beseech you to tell me more about the kingdom and people of the sea, who are altogether
unknown to me. I have heard much talk, indeed, of the inhabitants of the sea, but I always
looked upon it as nothing but a tale or fable; but, by what you have told me, I am convinced
there is nothing more true; and I have a very good proof of it in your own person, who are
one of them, and are pleased to condescend to be my wife; which is an honour no other inhabitant
on the earth can boast of besides myself. There is one thing yet which puzzles me; therefore
I must beg the favour of you to explain it; that is, I cannot comprehend how it is possible
for you to live or move in the water without being drowned. There are very few amongst us who
have the art of staying under water; and they would surely perish, if, after a certain time,
they did not come up again.'

'Sire,' replied Queen Gulnare, 'I shall with pleasure satisfy the King of Persia. We can walk
at the bottom of the sea with as much ease as you can upon land; and we can breathe in the
water as you do in the air; so that instead of suffocating us, as it does you, it absolutely
contributes to the preservation of our lives. What is yet more remarkable is, that it never
wets our clothes; so that when we have a mind to visit the earth, we have no occasion to dry
them. Our common language is the same as that of the writing engraved upon the seal of the
great prophet Solomon, the son of David.

'I must not forget to tell you, further, that the water does not in the least hinder us from
seeing in the sea; for we can open our eyes without any inconvenience; and as we have quick,
piercing sight, we can discern any object as clearly in the deepest part of the sea as upon
land. We have also there a succession of day and night; the moon affords us her light, and
even the planets and the stars appear visible to us. I have already spoken of our kingdoms;
but as the sea is much more spacious than the earth, so there are a greater number of them,
and of greater extent. They are divided into provinces; and in each province there are several
great cities, well peopled. Did you know? Those who left never to return, and
yet again, that hundred unhappy that I dealt with Father cuddles, making unharmed and that ... Ingrates!
I just come to see me alone.

- What! ... Do they return?

- Every night. There are those who annoy me recently: the past, and scarcely seem Friends which I left
yesterday, but the old ones from my early days, when I was still excited and I felt awkward,
those are real demons that, just see me alone in the dark parade on my chest in an endless procession,
oppress me, choking me, touching my eyes with edge of their hopas. They follow me everywhere,
and as I grow old are more frequent.

When I got into the attic began to see them poke through the darkest
corners.

For this reason she a doctor: I was sick I was afraid at night, I wanted light, company.

- How long are you alone?

- No, I have family there in my little house on the outskirts of Barcelona, ​​a family that gives
no trouble: a dog, three cats and eight chickens.

They do not understand is why people respect me, me like as if I
were a man like others.

Age quietly beside me. Never I happened to kill a chicken, I faint to see bloodshed.

He said this with the same plaintive voice before, weak, overwhelmed, as if he felt the slow collapse
from within.

- And never did you family?

- Me? ... As everyone! You tell it all, sir. So long ago I do not speak! ... My wife died six years
ago. Do not think that was one of those drunken sluts and brutish, which is the role that
novels reserves the female executioner. It was a girl of my people, with whom he married upon
returning from service. We had a son and a daughter; bread enough, much misery, and what do you want?
youth and a certain brutality of nature I brought to the office. Do not think I got the job
easily, until needed influences. At first hacíame grace the hatred of the people, I was proud to
inspire terror and disgust. I served in many hearings, we shot half of Spain, and the boys more
and more beautiful, until finally we were in Barcelona. What a season! The best my life: five
or six years there was no work. My savings were converted into a house in outside and the neighbors
appreciated Don Nicomedes, a man sympathetic employee at the hearing. The boy, an angel of
God, a worker, Miss Prude and quiet, was in a commercial house; girls
- how much I regret not having her picture here! - the girl, who was
a seraph, with big eyes blue and blond braids, thick as my arm, and
when they ran around our little garden resembled one of those ladies
who go to operas, not going to Barcelona with his mother without some
young came upon her footsteps.

Had a serious boyfriend, a good boy who would soon to be a doctor. Things she and her mother, I pretended
not to see anything with that kind blindness parents that are reserved for the last time. But
Lord, how happy we were!

Nicomedes's voice was increasingly shaky, his little blue eyes were glazed. Do not cry, but his
grotesque obesity agitábase with tremors of the child who makes efforts to swallow tears.

- But it occurred to a fiend with a long history to be caught, was sentenced to death and I
had to take over when I had almost forgotten what my office. What a day that one! Half the city knew
seeing me on the stage, and there was even journalists, such as worse an epidemic (you dispense),
found out my life, presenting in print to me and my family, like we're freaks, and saying with admiration
that we facade decent people. We were put in fashion. But what style! The neighbors closed doors and
windows to see me, and although the city is great, I always knew in the streets and insulted me. One
day, coming home, I received my wife like crazy. The girl! The girl! ... Saw in bed, his face
contorted, greenish, she so pretty! and white-spotted tongue. Was poisoned, poisoned with
matches, and had suffered atrocious pain for hours, silence for the remedy came too late ...
And here! The next day was no longer living. The poor had value. He loved with all his soul
to mediquín, and I read the letter in which the boy said goodbye forever over who was the daughter.
Do not cry. Was it time? The world coming down on us, the misfortune was blowing everywhere,
this quiet home We had built collapsed by its four corners. My son ... also my son threw the trading
house, and was useless to seek new placement or support your friends. Who crosses the word
with the son of the executioner? Poor thing! As if he had given to choose the father before
coming to the world! What crime did he, so good, that I would have begotten? Spent all day at home,
people fleeing in a corner of the little garden, sad and neglected since the death of the girl.
"What do you think, Anthony?" He asked. "Dad, I think of Anita."
The poor deceived me.

Thought of him as we had cruelly wrong for a while thinking ourselves
equal to others, and committing the insolence of want to be happy.

The thud was terrible: unable to get up. Antonio disappeared.

- And nothing has known you from your son? - Said Yanez, interested in the grim history.

- Yes, after four days. We fished off Barcelona, ​​came wrapped in networks swollen and broken
... I guess you and others. The poor old woman was slowly, as if tirasen guys it from above,
and I, the bad, the hopeless, I am left here alone all alone, without recourse even to drink, because
if I get drunk, they come, You know? them, my persecutors, to go mad with the flutter of black
hopas as if they were huge crows, and I get to die ... And yet, not
hate. Woe!

Almost I cry when I see them on the bench. Others are those who have wronged me. If the world
became in one person, if all the strangers who had robbed me of mine with contempt and his hatred had
a single neck and handed it to me, oh, how would tighten! ... How gladly! ...

And speaking loudly had stood up, waving their fists tightly, as if
writhe an imaginary lever.

He was not the same be shy, paunchy and whining. In her eyes sparkled red spots and splashes
of blood, his mustache bristling, and his stature seemed older, as
if the sleeping beast within him, on waking, had given a tremendous
growth spurt the enclosure.

In the silence of the jail resounded increasingly clear the painful hum coming from the Black
Hole: "Pa. .. dre ... nu ... estrus ... you ... in heaven ... "

Don Nicomedes was not listening. He paced furiously around the room, touching the floor with
their steps that served as shelter for the victim. Finally he looked at the dull moan.

- How sings this wretch! - Murmured -. How far will know that I am here on your head!

Discouraged and sat silent for a long time, until his thoughts, his
desire protest forced him to speak.

- Look you, sir, I know I'm a
bad man and that people should despise.

But what irritates me is the lack of logic.

If what I am doing is a crime, to abolish the penalty reventaré death and hunger in a corner
like a dog. But if you need to kill for tranquility of the good,
then why is he hates me?

The prosecutor asked the head of would be nothing without me wrong, I obey, all wheels are the
same machine, and living God! we deserve equal respect, because I'm
an official ... thirty years of service.

The ogre

Across the Pacific area was known that devil carter, ruffling the streets with angry shouting
and smacking his whip.

Residents of the great house in which lived under had helped build her reputation. Most heinous
and foul-mouthed man!

And then the newspapers say that the police stops blasphemous!

Pepe the road to merit daily, according to some neighbors, they cut the tongue and mouth filling with
burning lead, as in the best times of the Inquisition.

Nothing left in peace, human or divine. He knew by heart all venerable names calendar, only for
the sake of lacking, and so angry with their cattle and raised the whip, it was not holy,
they were cornered in one of the squares of the month who is not
with the dirtiest profane expressions.

Finally, a horror!

And most objectionable was that, as they face off with their stubborn animals, spurred by blasphemy
better than lashes The neighborhood kids came to hear him with perverse attention, basking before
inexhaustible fertility of the teacher.

The neighbors, harassed at all hours, endless string of curses, did
not know how to get rid of them.

Went to the main floor, an old miser, who had rented the garage to find Pepe best tenant.

- If you do not - answer -. Consider it a road, and that for this
job not require tests of civility.

It has bad language, yes, but it is very formal man delayed payment without a single day. A
little charity, gentlemen.

A woman from the accursed blasphemer the pity in the whole house.

- Do not believe you - said the poor woman laughing -; not suffer anything from it. Kindest
creature! Is your little genius, but alas daughter!

God forbid the still waters ... Is gold, some glass to gather strength, but nothing to be like
others, who spend the day in front of the stakes counter in the tavern. Is not a penny of what
you earn, and that we do not have family, what would you most like.

But the poor woman could not convince anyone of the goodness of Pepe. Enough to see him. Go a
face!

In the prison had improved. He was wiry, square, hairy like a beast, the copper side, with
rough ridges and deep furrows, bloodshot eyes and nose crushed, gritty, blue-veined, with bristle
tufts sticking out like tentacles a hedgehog inside your skull take
the place of the brain.

A gave no respect.

Reverend was the males that helped him earn a living, and when breaks or sat in the garage door,
spelled out painfully with a loud voice that was heard even on the
top floors, their favorite newspapers, the papers more abominable
that were published in Madrid, and some ladies watched from above
with same fear that if machines were explosive.

This man, who longed to disasters and who dreamed big, but very fat, lived irony in the Pacific
area.

The slightest question of his wife with the servants put him beside himself, and opening the
bag threats promised up to slaughter all the inhabitants and set fire to the house, four drops that fell
into his yard from the galleries were sufficient to infect come out
of his big mouth the sad procession of saints desecrated, accompanied
by horrifying prophecies the day when things were straight and the
poor go up above it in their place applicable.

But their hatred is only limited to the elderly, those who feared
him, because if a boy passing through the neighborhood around it,
acogíale with a smile like the yawn of the ogre and extending its
hand calloused caress intended.

As proposed will not leave anyone alone in the house, even got the poor Loca a stray cat predation
exerted in all rooms, but whose forays tolerated neighbors because she was not living rat.

Bohemia that bore white and silky fur, and required to have an address for peace of their children,
chose the patio of the ogre, perhaps mocking the terrible character.

You had to hear the road.

Was your yard a yard to come and defiled with young animals in the neighborhood? From time to time
he would get angry, and if he was angry indeed, boom! from kick off
were the Mad and her cubs to crash into the wall opposite.

But as the ogre took strength to bring his terrible kick and loudly
heralded one hundred times a day, feline offspring remained quietly
in a corner, making a mess of red and black hair, which glistened
pale eyes with phosphorescence, and ironically chanting the threats
of the Road: Meow!

Meow!

Nice summer was that! Work, little, and a heat of hell that's bad mood irritated Pepe and it
was boiling inside the caldera of curses, which are beyond gushing his mouth.

People of potential was far away in their Biarritces and San Sebastiano, soaking the skins, as
he was roasted in Cocherón.

Too bad the sea is not out to swallow both parasite! There was people in Madrid and work was scarce.
Two days without engaging the car. If this was so, would have to eat with chips to their reverend,
except to cast hand in their poultry, which was the name given to the Mad and their offspring.

It
was in August when, at eleven o'clock, had to go down to the Midi station to load some furniture.

What
a time! Not a cloud in the sky and a sun drew sparks from the walls and seemed soften the pavement
slabs.

- Arre, brave! ... What do you, Mad?

And while her male was driving, walking away with the white cat meowing painfully trying to
get under the wheels.

- But do you want, damn? Behind, you're going to bust a wheel!

And who makes a charity, he started to lash so furious animal, which left him overwhelmed in a
corner, moaning in pain.

Good time to work. I could not look anywhere without feeling irritated eyes; burnt earth, wind burned,
as if all of Madrid was in flames and the dust was fire; paralizábanse tongue and throat, and flies,
heat crazy, flitting the lips of the road or hit the panting snout
of the animals for freshness.

The ogre was increasingly irritated as burning down the slope, and
while mumbling his swearing, animated with the whip to the males,
walking, weak head low, almost touching the ground.

Damn sun! It was the greatest scoundrel of creation. Well, that he deserved to settle accounts the
day of fat as an enemy of the poor. In winter a lot to hide, for the laborer members have awkward
and not know where your hands so that you fall from scaffolding or
caught under the wheels of the car.

And now, in summer, take your course! Fire and more fire, poor people staying in Madrid die
like chickens on a spit. Hypocrite! Insurance not bothered both having fun on the beaches of
fashion.

And remembering three Andalusian Reapers dead of suffocation, as he
had read in one of its papers, tried in vain to look at the sun and
threatening him with his fist.

Murderer! ... Reactionary! ... Too bad you're not below the day of fat!

When he reached the storage of goods, he stopped a moment to rest. He took off his cap, Then he
took the sweat with his hands, and watched as the shadow all the
way just crossing.

That burned. And I thought with dread in the back, uphill, panting, Lead the sun overhead and
non-stop herding the animals, overwhelmed by heat. There was great the distance from there
to your house, but if you were told that in the garage waiting for
him Nuncio it was not going.

What had to go! ... Even so making good road trip coming the fat, so think before you decide
to climb the hill in that heat.

- Go!

Fewer stories and work.

And lifted the lid of the great esparto carrycot attached to the shafts of the cart, looking
for his provision string. But his hand encountered a few things that were removed and silky
feel while faint scratches on his calloused skin.

The thick fingers were prey, and came to light, caught by the neck, a white puppy with legs
extended, tail curled up by the tremors of fear and throwing her sad Nau Nau, as he begs for mercy.

La
Loca, not content to turn your backyard into corral, took possession of the car and got the
offspring in the cot to keep it safe from the sun. Was not that abuse the patience of a man? ... It's
all over. And in his large hands covering the five kittens, tossed in a heap at his feet. Would
crush kicked, he swore, this vote and beyond! Going to make an omelet cats.

And as he dropped his oaths, the band took out the handkerchief of
grass, it grew, he put on that pile of fur and meows, and tying the
four corners walked with the package, leaving the car.

Was launched at full speed that way of fire, enduring the sun with his head down, panting chest
and fell to the slope that minutes earlier did not want to go, even
if mandated by the Nuncio.

Something terrible is afoot. The voluptuousness of evil was undoubtedly what gave him strength.
Such After looking up high, very high, so from the crest of a cutting load crush their cats.

But
he went to his house and received him at the door to the Crazy antics of joy, sniffing the
swollen tissue, which quivered with palpitation of life.

- Toma,
loss - said panting from the heat and fatigue of the race -, here's
your rogues.

By this time passes, I forgive you, because you're an animal and do not know how you spend Pepe the
road. But again ... Hum! ... the other ...

And no more words can say without the interposition of oaths, the ogre was turned back running for
his car, again downhill, that sun casting demons against enemy of
the poor.

But although the heat was increasing, it seemed the poor ogre that something had cooled inside.

The
abandoned boat

Beach was Torresalinas, with its many boats in dry place for meeting all seafaring people. The
children, lying on his stomach, were playing in the shadow carteta craft, and the old, smoking
their clay pipes brought from Algiers, spoke of fishing or the great expeditions were made
in the past to Gibraltar and African coast, rather than the devil you happen to invent what
they call the Tabacalera.

The light boats, with their white bellies and blue and mast graceful
sloping formed a row to the edge of the beach where the waves fell
apart and a thin sheet burnished the ground water if it were glass,
behind the bituminized belly on the sand were the black boats of the
Ox, the couples who waited to jump into the winter sea, its tail sweeping
nets, and ultimately, the lutes in repair, grandparents, Men swarmed
with which the shipwrights, smeared the edges with hot tar to again
re-start their arduous and monotonous sailing for the Mediterranean:
sometimes to the Balearics with salt, others to the coast of Algiers
with the orchard fruits Levantine and many with melons and potatoes
for the Red Army in Gibraltar. 

In the course of a year, the beach
changed from neighbors and repaired lutes were made to sea ​​and fishing
boats were armed and placed in the water, just a abandoned boat and
without masts remained embedded in the sand, sad, lonely, no other
company of the policeman who sat in its shade.

The sun had melted
his painting, the boards are cracked and cracked with dryness, and
sand blown by the wind, had invaded its cover. But its thin profile,
their flanks collected and the elegance of its construction gave away
a boat light, bold, made for crazy racing down on the dangers of the
sea. I had the sad beauty of these old horses, spirited horses were
neglected and weak and fall on the sand the bullring.

Even had no
name. The stern was smooth and the sides or a sign of affiliation
number name and registration, an unknown being who was dying among
those other boats, proud their pompous names, such as die in the world
some, without tearing up the mystery of his life.

But the stranger
side of the boat was only apparent. Everyone knew in Torresalinas,
and did not speak it without smiling and winking, as if they remembered
something that excited malicious glee.

One morning in the shadow
of the abandoned boat, when the sea was boiling in the sun and seemed
a summer night sky, blue and sprinkled with dots of light, an old
fisherman told me history.

- This felucca - said patting his belly
a pat dry and sandy - is the Socarrao, ship bravest and best known
of all who make the sea from Alicante to Cartagena. Jesus! The money
that has won this condenao! The hardliners who have left there! Has
made at least twenty trips from Oran to these shores, and always with
the While belly full of bales.

The bizarre and strange name Socarrao
admired me something, and this he perceived the fisherman.

- They
are nicknames, sir, here we have nicknames, like the men that the
boats. He waited for his last moment with great tranquillity, and his only care was
to recommend the ministers and other lords of his son's court to remain faithful to him: and
there was not one but willingly renewed his oath as freely as at first. He died, at length,
to the great grief of King Beder and Queen Gulnare, who caused his corpse to be borne to a
stately mausoleum, worthy of his rank and dignity.

The funeral ended, King Beder found no difficulty in complying with that ancient custom in
Persia to mourn for the dead a whole month, and not to be seen by anybody during all that time.
He would have mourned the death of his father his whole life, had it been right for a great
prince thus to abandon himself to grief. During this interval the queen, mother to Queen Gulnare,
and King Saleh, together with the princesses their relations, arrived at the Persian court,
and shared their affliction, before they offered any consolation.

When the month was expired, the king could not refuse admittance to the grand vizier and the
other lords of his court, who besought him to lay aside his mourning, to show himself to his
subjects, and take upon him the administration of affairs as before.

He showed such great reluctance at their request, that the grand vizier was forced to take
upon himself to say to him; 'Sir, neither our tears nor yours are capable of restoring life
to the good king your father, though we should lament him all our days. He has undergone the
common law of all men, which subjects them to pay the indispensable tribute of death. Yet we
cannot say absolutely that he is dead, since we see him in your sacred person. He did not himself
doubt, when he was dying, but that he should revive in you, and to your majesty it belongs
to show that he was not deceived.'

King Beder could no longer oppose such pressing entreaties: he laid aside his mourning; and
after he had resumed the royal habit and ornaments, he began to provide for the necessities
of his kingdom and subjects with the same care as before his father's death. He acquitted himself
with universal approbation: and as he was exact in maintaining the ordinances of his predecessor,
the people did not feel they had changed their sovereign.

King Saleh, who had returned to his dominions in the sea with the queen his mother and the
princesses, no sooner saw that King Beder had resumed the government, at the end of the month
than he came alone to visit him; and King Beder and Queen Gulnare were overjoyed to see him.

One evening when they rose from table, they talked of various matters. King Saleh began with
the praises of the king his nephew, and expressed to the queen his sister how glad he was to
see him govern so prudently, all of which had acquired him great reputation, not among his
neighbours only, but more remote princes. King Beder, who could not bear to hear himself so
well spoken of, and not being willing, through good manners, to interrupt the king his uncle,
turned on one side to sleep, leaning his head against a cushion that was behind him.

'Sister,' said King Saleh, 'I wonder you have not thought of marrying him ere this: if I mistake
not, he is in his twentieth year; and, at that age, no prince like him ought to be suffered
to be without a wife. I will think of a wife for him myself, since you will not, and marry
him to some princess of our lower world that may be worthy of him.'

'Brother,' replied Queen Gulnare, 'I have never thought of it to this very moment, and I am
glad you have spoken of it to me. I like your proposing one of our princesses; and I desire
you to name one so beautiful and accomplished that the king my son may be obliged to love her.'

'I know one that will suit,' replied King Saleh, softly; 'but I see many difficulties to be
surmounted, not on the lady's part, as I hope, but on that of her father. I need only mention
to you the Princess Giauhara, daughter of the king of Samandal.'

'What?' replied Queen Gulnare, 'is not the Princess Giauhara yet married? I remember to have
seen her before I left your palace; she was then about eighteen months old, and surprisingly
beautiful, and must needs be the wonder of the world. The few years she is older than the king
my son ought not to prevent us from doing our utmost to bring it about. Let me but know the
difficulties that are to be surmounted, and we will surmount them.'

'Sister,' replied King Saleh, 'the greatest difficulty is, that the King of Samandal is insupportably
vain, looking upon all others as his inferiors: it is not likely we shall easily get him to
enter into this alliance. For my part, I will go to him in person, and demand of him the princess
his daughter; and, in case he refuses her, we will address ourselves elsewhere, where we shall
be more favourably heard. For this reason, as you may perceive,' added he, 'it is as well for
the king my nephew not to know anything of our design, lest he should fall in love with the
Princess Giauhara, till we have got the consent of the King of Samandal, in case, after all,
we should not be able to obtain her for him.' They discoursed a little longer upon this point,
and, before they parted, agreed that King Saleh should forthwith return to his own dominions,
and demand the Princess Giauhara of the King of Samandal her father, for the King of Persia
his nephew.

Now King Beder had heard what they said, and he immediately fell in love with the Princess
Giauhara without having even seen her, and he lay awake thinking all night. Next day King Saleh
took leave of Queen Gulnare and the king his nephew. The young king, who knew the king his
uncle would not have departed so soon but to go and promote his happiness without loss of time,
changed colour when he heard him mention his departure. He resolved to desire his uncle to
bring the princess away with him: but only asked him to stay with him one day more, that they
might hunt together. The day for hunting was fixed, and King Beder had many opportunities of
being alone with his uncle, but he had not the courage to open his mouth. In the heat of the
chase, when King Saleh was separated from him, and not one of his officers and attendants was
near, he alighted near a rivulet; and having tied his horse to a tree, which, with several
others growing along the banks, afforded a very pleasing shade, he laid himself down on the
grass. He remained a good while absorbed in thought, without speaking a word.

King Saleh, in the meantime, missing the king his nephew, began to be much concerned to know
what had become of him. He therefore left his company to go in search of him, and at length
perceived him at a distance. He had observed the day before, and more plainly that day, that
he was not so lively as he used to be; and that if he was asked a question, he either answered
not at all, or nothing to the purpose. As soon as King Saleh saw him lying in that disconsolate
posture, he immediately guessed he had heard what passed between him and Queen Gulnare. He
hereupon alighted at some distance from him, and having tied his horse to a tree, came upon
him so softly, that he heard him say to himself:

'Amiable princess of the kingdom of Samandal, I would this moment go and offer you my heart,
if I knew where to find you.'

King Saleh would hear no more; he advanced immediately, and showed himself to King Beder. 'From
what I see, nephew,' said he, 'you heard what the queen your mother and I said the other day
of the Princess Giauhara. It was not our intention you should have known anything, and we thought
you were asleep.'

'My dear uncle,' replied King Beder, 'I heard every word, but was ashamed to disclose to you
my weakness. I beseech you to pity me, and not wait to procure me the consent of the divine
Giauhara till you have gained the consent of the King of Samandal that I may marry his daughter.'

These words of the King of Persia greatly embarrassed King Saleh. He represented to him how
difficult it was, and that he could not well do it without carrying him along with him; which
might be of dangerous consequence, since his presence was so absolutely necessary in his kingdom.
He begged him to wait. But these reasons were not sufficient to satisfy the King of Persia.

'Cruel Uncle,' said he, 'I find you do not love me so much as you pretended, and that you had
rather see me die than grant the first request I ever made you.'

'I am ready to convince your majesty,' replied King Saleh, 'that I would do anything to serve
you; but as for carrying you along with me, I cannot do that till I have spoken to the queen
your mother. What would she say of you and me? If she consents, I am ready to do all you would
have me, and I will join my entreaties to yours.'

'If you do really love me,' replied the King of Persia impatiently, 'as you would have me believe
you do, you must return to your kingdom immediately, and carry me along with you.'

King Saleh, finding himself obliged to yield to his nephew, drew from his finger a ring, on
which were engraven the same mysterious names that were upon Solomon's seal, that had wrought
so many wonders by their virtue. 'Here, take this ring,' said he, 'put it upon your finger,
and fear neither the waters of the sea, nor their depth.'

The King of Persia took the ring, and when he had put it on his finger, King Saleh said to
him, 'Do as I do.' At the same time they both mounted lightly up into the air, and made towards
the sea which was not far distant, whereinto they both plunged.

The sea-king was not long in getting to his palace with the King of Persia, whom he immediately
carried to the queen's apartment, and presented him to her. The King of Persia kissed the queen
his grandmother's hands, and she embraced him with great joy. 'I do not ask you how you are,'
said she to him; 'I see you are very well, and I am rejoiced at it; but I desire to know how
is my daughter, your mother, Queen Gulnare?'

The King of Persia told her the queen his mother was in perfect health. Then the queen presented
him to the princesses; and while he was in conversation with them, she left him, and went with
King Saleh, who told her how the King of Persia was fallen in love with the Princess Giauhara,
and that he had brought him along with him, without being able to hinder it.

Although King Saleh was, to do him justice, perfectly innocent, yet the queen could hardly
forgive his indiscretion in mentioning the Princess Giauhara before him. 'Your imprudence is
not to be forgiven,' said she to him: 'can you think that the King of Samandal, whose character
is so well known, will have greater consideration for you than the many other kings he has
refused his daughter to with such evident contempt? Would you have him send you away with the
same confusion?'

'Madam,' replied King Saleh, 'I have already told you it was contrary to my intention that
the king, my nephew, should hear what I related of the Princess Giauhara to the queen my sister.
The fault is committed; I will therefore do all that I can to remedy it. I hope, madam, you
will approve of my resolution to go myself and wait upon the King of Samandal, with a rich
present of precious stones, and demand of him the princess, his daughter, for the King of Persia,
your grandson. I have some reason to believe he will not refuse me, but will be pleased at
an alliance with one of the greatest potentates of the earth.'

'It were to have been wished,' replied the queen, 'that we had not been under a necessity of
making this demand, since the success of our attempt is not so certain as we could desire;
but since my grandson's peace and content depend upon it, I freely give my consent. But, above
all, I charge you, since you well know the temper of the King of Samandal, that you take care
to speak to him with due respect, and in a manner that cannot possibly offend him.'

The queen prepared the present herself, composed of diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and strings
of pearl; all of which she put into a very neat and very rich box. Next morning, King Saleh
took leave of her majesty and the King of Persia, and departed with a chosen and small troop
of officers and other attendants. He soon arrived at the kingdom and the palace of the King
of Samandal, who rose from his throne as soon as he perceived him; and King Saleh, forgetting
his character for some moments, though knowing whom he had to deal with, prostrated himself
at his feet, wishing him the accomplishment of all his desires. The King of Samandal immediately
stooped to raise him up, and after he had placed him on his left hand, he told him he was welcome,
and asked him if there was anything he could do to serve him. 

The pattern changed course. It was useless to resist the sea that enemy that was with smoke and
spit bullets. A land, and that was what God wanted!

We were facing Torresalinas. We were all here and we had friends. The gunboat, seeing due to
land, no more shots. We had caught, and assured of success and Progress not extreme. People
who were on this beach to see us soon, and the news circulated throughout
the village.

The Socarrao pursued by a gunboat was coming!

We had to see what happened. A true revolution: believe me, sir. Middle Village was a relative
of ours, and others ate more or less directly from the business. This beach seemed an anthill.
Men, women, and children with anxious eyes followed us, shouting
satisfaction to see how our boat, making a last effort, came forward
each Again his pursuer, bringing half hour ahead.

Even the mayor was here, to serve on what was good.

And the police, excellent boys who live among us and are almost family, hacíanse aside, understanding
the situation and not wanting to miss a few poor.

- To earth, boys - screaming our pattern -. Let's run aground. What matters is to in bundles
and save people. The Socarrao already know this evil out of step.

And cloth unfolded almost rammed the beach, digging the bow into the sand. Lord, what way of working!
Still seems like a dream when I remember. The whole town was thrown on boat, took by assault:
the youngsters like mice slipped into the cove.

- Quick! Quick! What are the government!

Packages jumped from the roof: they fell into the water, where men
gathered barefoot and women with the skirt between the legs, some
disappearing around here, others were on there, was something seen
and unseen, and soon disappeared while loading, as if he had swallowed
sand.

A wave of flooding to snuff Torresalinas, seeping into every home.

The mayor intervened paternally.

- Men, too - said the pattern -. Have it all, and the police complain. Leave at least some packages
in order to justify apprehension.

Our master was satisfied.

- Well: do a few packages with two bundles of the worst sting. To
be content with that.

And he went into town, taking in the chest all the documents of the boat. But even stopped for
a moment, because that devil of a man was in everything.

- The sheets! Delete pages!

It seemed that the boat had left legs.

Was out of the water and dragged by sand in the middle of that crowd seethed and work, animated
with happy cries.

- What a disappointment! What a disappointment will be the government!

The companion of the broken leg was carried aloft by his wife and
mother.

The poor man groaned of sharp pain with every movement, but swallowed the tears and laughed too
as the others, seeing that the cargo was saved and thinking of that disappointment which made
everyone laugh.

When the last bales were lost in the streets of Torresalinas began the plunder of the boat.
The crowd took the sails, anchors, oars, to dismantle the mast, was loaded on the shoulders
of a crowd of boys, leading him in procession to the other end of people. The boat was made
a pontoon, as bare as you see it.

Meanwhile, the shipwrights, brush in hand, he paints he paints. The Socarrao is disfigured
Roma as a donkey. With four strokes was erased the name of stern and folios the sides of those
damn signs, which are the charter of any vessel, was not trace.

The striker dropped anchor at the same time disappearing into the
edge of town the past remains of the boat.

I stood on this site, wanting to see everything, and more openly helped some friends who were
putting to sea a fishing boat.

The striker sent an armed boat, and jumped to the ground do not know
how many men with a rifle and bayonet.

The boatswain, who was leading, swore furiously looking at the Socarrao and carabinieri, who
had seized him.

Torresalinas entire neighborhood laughed at that hour, celebrating
the disappointment, and even had laughed more, seeing as I, the face
that put those people to find all cargo a few packages of snuff bad.

-
What happened next? - Asked the old man -.

Do not punish anybody?

- Who?

Could only punish the poor Socarrao, which was taken. Is dirty lot of paper and half the town
was to testify, but nobody knew anything. What was the enrollment boat? Silence, no one had seen the
folios. About the manned? Some men the beach had run inland. And nobody knew more.

- And the cargo? "- I said.

- I completely sold. You do not know what poverty is. When stranded, each grabbed the bundle
that was at hand and ran to hide at home.

But the day were all available following the pattern: not lost even a pound of snuff. The
exposing the bread of life and every day you see the face of death, are freer temptations than
others ...

- Since then - continued the old man - who is here imprisoned Socarrao poor. But do not take
in going to sea with his old master. Seems to have completed paperwork, bring him out to auction
and it will be the pattern for what you want to.

- What if another more?

- Who has to be that? Are we outlaws? All the people know who the real master of the ship abandoned,
and nobody has so badly hurt heart to try. Here much honesty. To each what is his: the sea, which
is of God, to us poor, we have to remove the bread from him, but does not want the government.

The
dummy

Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife. After he had been involved
in silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had
guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded of men who were fighting the
murmuring something in her ear to show off an intimacy smiling.

These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient
who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to meet, to see it and speak
it at the hotel de la Castellana, which was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.

The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all
corners of his memory.

That life did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest
employee married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times,
the joy of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against
the narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed,
the troubles emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom,
the gnawing suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material
wealth slipping through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding
the scandal, then insolent display, as believing enter a world of
blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof
of his misfortune.

He was ashamed to remember his weakness. It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will
or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his
disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up not strike
a blow. Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn as an abandoned child just closed the
door.

Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt. His wife
was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their
very existence, for what he was born. A winter call attention in Paris, the newspapers talked
about the beautiful Spanish, and his triumphs on the beaches were
noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her, and several duels and
certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.

After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange
charm of cosmopolitanism. Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid
court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political influence, characters of all
classes who sought his smile as the best of his decorations.

So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations
were happening without being touched their jobs. The fear to fight for the sustaining life
made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet.

Solo and sentenced to work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim
to be the husband of a beautiful woman. Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and
triumphant in his disgrace, to escape persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise,
pride of women losing their coveted.

One day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him
in the car. He was the confessor of his wife. Well had learned to choose! A man kind, short-sighted.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult round.
But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it
is slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him
and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet. I was
sick, barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a
cancer that had to be tamed with continuous injections of morphine
for did not faint and roar of pain with his cruel scratches.

Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...

And he, the cowardly man, jumped with joy on hearing this, weak with
satisfaction that is avenged.

A cancer! ... The luxury damn rotting inside her, making her die in life! And always so beautiful,
right? What sweet revenge! ... No, not go to see it. It was useless arguments that seek healing.
Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of his wife: that he was very happy and now understand
why men are bad.

Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet,
and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.

The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to
die.

Wanted him to beg his forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a
toy. To the other, the powerful protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged
the priest to take them to the hotel to the husband of Harriet. The good old man spoke with
fervor of the conversion touching the lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss
of so many souls, still dominated. Her illness was a prisoner in her home, but at times of
calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines
in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the
latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry, after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell
into the corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys. For all these fads going the
other, provided to see Harriet smiling.

These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the life of his wife was by far
the course of their disease and not a day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had
departed forever.

A priest was later presented with unusual energy. This lady was in the past, we called aloud,
was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does
not consented.

He felt able to take it by force. Luis, defeated by the will of the old, left Drag and got into a
car, mentally insulting, but no strength to back ... Coward! Coward forever!

In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many
times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now, nothing, no hate or pain: a strong sense curiosity, like
entering unknown country, savoring the wonders ahead he expects to
see.

Inside the hotel the same feeling of curiosity and wonder. Ah, wretch! How often in dreams of his
will impotent, was seen entering the house as a husband drama, gun in hand to kill his unfaithful
wife, and destroying afterwards, as a wild beast, expensive furniture,
rich draperies, fluffy carpet!

And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes, the flowers
that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch and felt impulses
to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his wife. Now he understood
what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves. Was already on the first floor, and had not
even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel, none of these details is revealed
in death as they enter a home.

Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted
him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy
or mockery "The husband of the lady", he believed distinguished in
an adjoining room a man who was hiding (Maybe it was the other), and
stunned by this new world, went through a door, gently pushed for
his guidance.

Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering
through a balcony ajar.

In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender, pink, dressed in a beautiful
soirée dress, the pearly emerging from behind clouds of lace, and
chest and head with the dazzling sparkle of the jewels.

Luis back amazed, protesting the farce. "That was the sick? Had he been called to insult?

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding
him the past, the best moments of his life.

His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental and
terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating
work was a white figure.

Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her slender stiff and his eyes of
vague look like blurred by tears.

It was a mannequin art bore some resemblance with Harriet. The best served to consider developments
that continuously received Paris.

It was the only actor in the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy
for his illness.

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom
of the bed.

Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively
and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while
a cheek received the warm touch of tears.

- Say you forgive me, say
it, Luis, and I may not die.

And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing themselves into those arms,
unwittingly repeating the same loving words of the happy times. To his eyes, accustomed to the
darkness, was dialed with every detail of his wife's face.

- Luis, Luis mine! - She said smiling through tears -. How do I find? And I'm not as beautiful
as in our times of happiness ... when I still was not crazy. Tell me God! tell me what you look like.

Her
husband looked at her in amazement. Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent child that
made it so scary. The death was not yet there: only between the soft perfume Sovereign of the
meat of this majestic bed, seemed to slip a subtle and distant mist
of dead, which gave away the rotting interior mixing in her kisses.

Luis divined the presence of someone behind him. A man was walking distance, contemplating with
a confused expression, as if drawn there by a superior boost to the will that he was ashamed. Harriet's
husband knew, on average nationwide, the stern face of that man and
entered years, a man of sound principles, great defender of public
morals.

- Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried the sick -.

What does that man there?

I just want you you ... I just want my husband. Forgive me ... was luxury, luxury damned: I needed
money, a lot of money, but love ... just you.

Cried Henrietta showing his repentance, and the man wept, weak and humble with contempt.

Luis, who had so often thought of him with fits of anger, and had been seeing him impulses to
throw around his neck, finally looking at him with sympathy and respect. We also loved her!
And the community on affection rather than repel, linking the husband and the other with sympathy
strange.

- Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn child.

And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as if asking forgiveness for his wife,
not knowing what he said.

- Come on, Mrs. Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the priest -. Think
in herself and in God does not commit the sin of pride.

The two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside of the sick. The pain was
roaring, we had to give frequent injections, and the two went solicitous their care. Several times
he stumbled his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion, but rather,
helped with effusion fraternal.

Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million,
and that his wife was crying even more than him. At night, when the patient rested under the action
of morphine, the two men, imbued by that evening of suffering, talking quietly, but his words
seeming less remote hint of hatred. Were as brothers reconciled by love.

Harriet died at dawn repeating, "Sorry! Sorry! "But his last look was not for the husband. That
beautiful bird took wing brainless forever caressing with mannequin eyes eternal smile and glassy
eyes, the idol of the estate, which stood near hollow head balcony, on which, with infernal
glow, sparkling diamonds, wounded by the bluish light of dawn.

The paella "Roder"

It was a holiday for the district head of the sudden visit of the deputy, matron Madrid, so
powerful for those good people, who spoke of him as the Holy Providence.

There was great paella in the garden of the mayor, a gargantuan feast, entertained by the town band
and referred to all women and children, who peered curious behind the walls.

The flower of the district was there: the priests of four or five
villages, as the deputy was defender of order and sound principles,
the mayors and all that in times beadle choice trotting on the roads
bringing Don José minutes unscathed for blemished his white virginity
to monster figures.

Among the new gowns and party dresses smelling of camphor and the
folds of the ark stood out lenses majestic gold and black tuxedo deputy,
but despite all its pomposity, Providence district barely attracted
attention.

All eyes were for a man in corduroy trousers and black headscarf,
lean, tanned, strong jaws, and beside him a heavy shorty, not changing
without wearing seat behind him the old gun, which looked like a stick
of his body.

It was the famous Quico Baggins, the hero of the district, a thirty-year
Roder exploits the I looked at young people with almost superstitious
terror, recalling his childhood, when mothers told to hush, "Coming
Baggins!"

At twenty he knocked down two matters of love, and then
to mount with the shorty, to make Roder's life, the knight errant
of the mountains. More than forty processes were suspended, waiting
to be good enough to be caught. But was it good! Jumping like a goat
knew every corner of the mountain, was based on a coin shot in the
air, and the Guard civil, tired of fruitless wanderings, they will
cease to see.

Thief ... never. Knight had his outbursts, eating on
the mountain which gave him for admiration or fear of the farmhouses,
and if he was a thief in the district, soon reached your shorty, he
had his honesty and theft did not want to pay others. Blood ... yes,
even elbows. To him a man worth less than a stone path, this beast
used masterfully all sorts of killing the enemy with bullets, with
knife, face to face if they had guts to go after him, waiting and
ambushed, if they were so wary and cunning like him. Out of jealousy
had been suppressing the other roders who infested the mountains,
in the roads, one today and another tomorrow, had murdered former
enemies, and often fell to people on Sunday to leave lying on the
square, leaving the mass, mayors or influential owners.

And did not
bother him or chasing him. Political passion killed by men who barely
knew to ensure the triumph of Don José, eternal district representative.
The beast was without realizing it, a large polyp claw waving electoral
Far on the Ministry of the Interior.

He lived in a nearby village,
married to the woman who drove him to kill first, surrounded of children,
paternal, benevolent and smoking cigars with the Civil Guard, who
obeyed orders higher as a result of an exploit had to pretend to be
chasing him, he spent some days hunting in the mountains, good pulse
entertaining shooter.

We had to see how he cared for the gifted,
and notable district paella. "Baggins this piece of chicken; Baggins,
a drink of wine. " And even the priests, laughing with a ho ho! bondadosote,
patted him on the back, saying paternally: "Oh Bolsonet, how bad you
are!"

He was held by that party. Only because he had stopped at the
head of the district Jose majestic on his way to Valencia. I wanted
to reassure and to cease in their complaints, increasingly alarming.

As
a reward for their abuses in the elections, had promised him a pardon,
and Baggins he was old and longed to live peacefully as a farmer honored,
obeyed the Lord Almighty believing in his rudeness that every outrage,
every crime, accelerating their forgiveness.

The greater part of the people were instantly drowned. Some few were saved by swimming, and
others by getting on pieces of the wreck. King Beder was among the latter, and, after having
been tossed about for some time by the waves and currents, he at length perceived himself near
the shore, and not far from a city that seemed large. He exerted his remaining strength to
reach the land, and was at length fortunate to come so near as to be able to touch the ground
with his feet. He immediately abandoned his piece of wood, which had been of so great service
to him; but when he came near the shore he was greatly surprised to see horses, camels, mules,
asses, oxen, cows, bulls, and other animals crowding to the shore to oppose his landing. He
had the utmost difficulty to conquer their obstinacy and force his way; but at length he succeeded,
and sheltered himself among the rocks till he had recovered his breath, and dried his clothes
in the sun.

When the prince advanced to enter the city, he met with the same opposition from these animals,
who seemed to want to make him understand that it was dangerous to proceed.

King Beder, however, got into the city soon after, and saw many fair and spacious streets,
but was surprised to find no man there. This made him think it was not without cause that so
many animals had opposed his passage. Going forward, nevertheless, he observed several shops
open, which gave him reason to believe the place was not so destitute of inhabitants as he
imagined. He approached one of these shops, where several sorts of fruits were exposed to sale,
and saluted very courteously an old man that was sitting there.

The old man, who was busy about something, lifted up his head, and seeing a youth who had an
appearance of grandeur, started, and asked him whence he came, and what business had brought
him there. King Beder satisfied him in a few words; and the old man further asked him if he
had met anybody on the road. 'You are the first person I have seen,' answered the king; 'and
I cannot comprehend how so fine and large a city comes to be without inhabitants.'

'Come in, sir; stay no longer upon the threshold,' replied the old man, 'or peradventure some
misfortune may happen to you. I will satisfy your curiosity at leisure, and give you the reason
why it is necessary you should take this precaution.'

King Beder would not be bidden twice: he entered the shop, and sat down by the old man. The
latter knew he must want food, therefore immediately presented him with what was necessary
to recover his strength; and although King Beder was very anxious to know why he had taken
the precaution to make him enter the shop, the old man nevertheless would not tell him anything
till he had done eating, for fear the sad things he had to relate might take away his appetite.
At last he said to him, 'You have great reason to thank God you got hither without any misfortune.'

'Alas! why?' replied king Beder, very much surprised and alarmed.

'Because,' answered he, 'this city is called the City of Enchantments, and is governed not
by a king, but by a queen, who is a notorious and dangerous sorceress. You will be convinced
of this,' added he, 'when you know that these horses, mules, and other animals that you have
seen are so many men, like you and me, whom she has transformed by her diabolical art. And
when young men like you enter the city, she has persons stationed to stop and bring them, either
by fair means or force, before her. She receives them in the most obliging manner; she caresses
them, regales them, and lodges them magnificently. But she does not suffer them long to enjoy
this happiness. There is not one of them whom she has not transformed into some animal or bird
at the end of forty days. You told me all these animals opposed your landing and entering,
the city. This was the only way they could make you comprehend the danger you were going to
expose yourself to, and they did all in their power to save you.'

This account exceedingly afflicted the young King of Persia. 'Alas!' cried he, 'to what extremities
has my ill-fortune reduced me! I am hardly freed from one enchantment, which I look back upon
with horror, but I find myself exposed to another much more terrible.' This gave him occasion
to relate his story to the old man more at length, and to acquaint him with his birth, quality,
his falling in love with the Princess of Samandal, and her cruelty in changing him into a bird
the very moment he had seen her and declared his love to her.

When the prince came to speak of his good fortune in finding a queen who broke the enchantment,
the old man, to encourage him, said, 'Notwithstanding all I told you of the magic queen, that
ought not to give you the least disquiet, since I am generally beloved throughout the city,
and am not unknown to the queen herself, who has much respect for me; therefore it was singularly
fortunate that you addressed yourself to me rather than elsewhere. You are secure in my house,
where I advise you to continue, if you think fit; and provided you do not stray from hence,
I dare assure you you will have no just cause to complain; so that you are under no sort of
constraint whatsoever.'

King Beder thanked the old man for his kind reception, and the protection he was pleased so
readily to afford him. He sat down at the entrance of the shop, where he no sooner appeared
than his youth and handsome looks drew the eyes of all that passed that way. Many stopped and
complimented the old man on his having acquired so fine a slave, as they imagined the king
to be; and they were the more surprised, because they could not comprehend how so beautiful
a youth could escape the queen's knowledge. 'Believe not,' said the old man, 'that this is
a slave; you all know that I am not rich enough. He is my nephew, son of a brother of mine
that is dead; and as I had no children of my own, I sent for him to keep me company.'

They congratulated his good fortune in having so fine a young man for his relation; but could
not help telling him they feared the queen would take him from him. 'You know her well,' said
they, 'and you cannot be ignorant of the danger to which you are exposed, after all the examples
you have seen. How grieved would you be if she should serve him as she has done so many others
that we know of!'

'I am obliged to you,' replied the old man, 'for your good will towards me, and I heartily
thank you for your care; but I shall never entertain the least thought that the queen will
do me any injury, after all the kindness she has professed for me. In case she happens to hear
of this young man, and speaks to me about him, I doubt not she will cease to think of him,
so soon as she comes to know he is my nephew.'

The old man was exceedingly glad to hear the commendations they bestowed on the young King
of Persia. He became as fond of him as if he had been his own son. They had lived about a month
together, when, King Beder sitting at the shop-door, after his ordinary manner, Queen Labe
(so was this magic queen named) happened to come by with great pomp. The young king no sooner
perceived the guards coming before her, than he arose, and, going into the shop, asked the
old man what all that show meant. 'The queen is coming by,' answered he, 'but stand still and
fear nothing.'

The queen's guards, clothed in purple uniform, and well armed and mounted, marched in four
files, with their sabres drawn, to the number of a thousand, and every one of their officers,
as they passed by the shop, saluted the old man: then followed a like number habited in brocaded
silk, and better mounted, whose officers did the old man the like honour. Next came as many
young ladies on foot, equally beautiful, richly dressed, and set off with precious stones.
They marched gravely, with half pikes in their hands; and in the midst of them appeared Queen
Labe, on a horse glittering with diamonds, with a golden saddle, and a harness of inestimable
value. Children played together, and together they learned to read and Christian
doctrine.

Elvira placid and felt that their souls had united with the bond of
affection more innocent.

Something had to suspect or foresee D. Fruela, and ordered his wife
to move away at the foundling treatment and the coexistence of their
daughter.

Dona Aldonza submissive, to comply with orders of her husband,
but not to the extent of avoided comprehensive than the small page,
the child was seen or spoke. Having no children,
I look upon him as my son, and sent for him to come and comfort me, intending to leave him
what I have when I die.'

Queen Labe, who had never yet seen any one to compare with King Beder, thought immediately
of getting the old man to abandon him to her. 'Father,' quoth she, 'will you not oblige me
so far as to make me a present of this young man? Do not refuse me, I conjure you; and I swear
by the fire and the light, I will make him so great and powerful that no individual in the
world ever arrived at such good fortune. Although my purpose were to do evil to all mankind,
yet he shall be the sole exception. I trust you will grant me what I desire, more on the account
of the friendship I know you have for me, than for the esteem you know I always had, and shall
ever have for you.'

'Madam,' replied the good Abdallah, 'I am infinitely obliged to your majesty for all your kindness,
and the honours you propose to do my nephew. He is not worthy to approach so great a queen,
and I humbly beseech your majesty to excuse him.'

'Abdallah,' replied the queen, 'I all along flattered myself you loved me; and I could never
have thought you would have given me so evident a token of your slighting my request. 

The natives had savido Bonbon, according to this count, the rout of Xauxa, and how had Huancas been
[165] up, and suspecting that the victors wanted to move on, agreed to be summoned, because tomasen
not neglected, and putting their wives and children to the ranch they could in a lake that is near
it [166], waiting for it to happen. Masters the Inca, as things settled hobieron Valley Xauxa came
out and walked up Bonbon, and as they entered the lagoon, they are not doing any further damage
that could eat them the maintenance; and as it were, went ahead and draw nigh to him of Tarama, to where
they found the natives gun positions, and hobieron battle in which they were imprisoned and killed
many of the Taramentinos, Cuzco and the winners were from, and as I dejasen in the king's will,
[that] you serve and pay tribute as did many other provinces, and that would be well treated
and favored, did everything I was commanded, and relationship to Cuzco envióse all had been done
in this town of Tarama.

The Indians Chance, as the Indians who left their province Andaguaylas with Captain Ancoallo
hobiesen great deeds done in these wars, jealous of them and set with rancor against the captain
who had Ancoallo more ago, when the Cuzco was fenced determined to kill them, and thus, was
summoned, and as were many together with his captain understand the intentions they had, and put into
a weapon, fought [the] Cuzco and even killed some, could the other, with the help and effort
Ancoallo of (well) out of there, which complained to their gods from the evil of the apricots,
and ingratitude, stating that, by not more or follow, it would go with his family in voluntary
exile; and throwing women before, walked and walked through the provinces of Chachapoyas and
Huanuco, and through the Andes mountain, walked through those mountains until they came, according
to also say, to a large lagoon, which I think must be what they tell Dorado, whither made their
villages and multiplied many people. And the Indians have great things that land and the captain
Ancoallo.

The captains of the Inca, after what has been eScript, turned the valley Xauxa where already had
great close friend, and many women present to bring to Cuzco, and do the same did Tarama those. The
new all went to Cuzco, and as it was known by the Inca, rejoiced by good fortune of their masters,
though he signs [of] him what they had done heavy with Ancoallo. But it was, it is believed,
industry, because some say that by his command did their masters. And Tupac and other Chancas
UASC hobiesen gone to make war to the province of Collao and hobiesen been no victory of some
people, suspicious of the Inca that new known what had happened to Ancoallo would turn against
him and would do treason, sent messengers to them then they should come to him, and commanded,
on pain of death, none warned of the past.

The Chancas, as were the order of the Inca, then came to Cuzco, and as they arrived, the Inca
with great dissimulation spoke lovingly, concealing the evil that was used to Ancoallo captain,
and gave his words heavy dello Habell samples. The Chancas, as understood, did not fail to feel
the shame, but, seeing how few of them were to be met, passed through it, asking leave to Inca Yupanqui
to return to his province, and being so granted, were split, giving privilege to be principal
lord could sit in the Duho [167] engastonado in gold, and other pre-eminence.

And understood the Inca temple Curicancha acrescentar with great riches, as is already eScript.
And like everywhere Cuzco had many provinces, gave some to this temple and sent to the posts, and
they speak a language all their own Sudit, which were made the highways, and mitimaes, and other
things invented the king, who said he understood Many of the stars and has had the sun's movement,
and so took him by nickname Inca Yupanqui, which is the account name and a lot of understanding. And
as is so powerful Notwithstanding that in Cuzco had large buildings and royal palaces, he ordered
three enclosures of wall Excellency and coordinates the work of memory, and such Paresce today,
so that anyone will not praise the building and learn to be great ingenuity of the teachers who
invented it. Each Near this is more than three hundred steps to a Pucamarca call, and the other
Hatun Court, and the third Cassana [168], and is of excellent and fantastic stone as per level,
not disproportion is a thing, and so well settled and so stuck stones, which can not even
see the joint in them. " They are so strong and so whole the most outstanding buildings, if not
apart, as have many others, will live many ages.

WITH THESE fences or walls within rooms and others had used Quellos, where they were number of
virgins and many women and concubines of the kings, and spun and wove of your so fine clothes,
and had many pieces of gold and silver and vessels these metals. Many I saw stones WITH THESE
WITH THESE some fences, and it frightens me how, being so large, were as first place .-- When
they made the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much of its chicha for those women
and bebíanla .-- And as so many parties to come to Cuzco, sent to providers to not come out
without his permission no gold or silver than entered, and stood by the mesmos governors over
the kingdom, and ruled them all with great justice and order. And because this time he ordered
the fortress of Cuzco, say something Dell, as it is right.

The city of Cuzco is built on valley slopes and hills, as written in the first Part of this history
[169], and the buildings mesmos out a thick-walled forms, in where they do their fields, and
Salian beat each other, which parescian fences, so everything was desto platforms, stronger than
towards the city, although it is his nature site, and so I chose the Lords della between so
much land. And as we were doing powerful command of the kings, and Inca Yupanqui had such great
thoughts, not attaching that he had been both enlightened and enriched the temple of the sun, called
Curicancha, é hobiese made other large buildings, determined that they should do another house
of the sun which surpasses the building to what was done there, and that she verifications all things
that might have, gold and silver, precious stones, fine clothing, weapons of all that they used,
ammunition war, sandals, shields, feathers, animal skins and bird, cocaine, bags of wool, mill
jewelry genres, in conclusion, had everything that they could be news. And this work was begun
so proud, that if the monarchy lasted until today, was not finished.

Mandóse that would come from the provinces said twenty thousand men, and that people necessary
provisions to send him, and if any adolescent, taking his place another, became his nature, but these
Indians resided in work but always limited time and coming others, Salian them, where they
felt little work. They broke the four mill desto rocks and stones taken out, the six mill were bringing
the large ropes of Leather and hemp [170], the others were digging the trench and opening the
ground, going some short wooden columns and beams for the woodwork. And to be at his pleasure,
these people made their accommodation each moiety itself beside where he had to make the building
.-- Today day seem most of the walls of the houses had walked about suppliers watching .-- were made,
and great teachers and a lot of delicacy, and so, on a hill which is on the part of North of
the city, on top of it, little more than a musket shot, was produced this natural force that
called Casa del Sol, and our named La Fortaleza.

Cavos in living rock for the foundation and build the foundation, which became so strong that
last as long as hobiere world. Had, in my view, three hundred and thirty feet long, and two
hundred wide. Had many fences so strong that not enough artillery to and to break them. The front
door was to see how premium was and how concerted the walls to one did not leave the bar to
the other, and fencing in these rocks are so large and magnificent, which tires the trial to
consider how they could bring and place and who was enough to labrallas because between them
are so few tools. WITH THESE Some stones are wide and twelve feet and longer than twenty, and
other thicker than an ox, and all so delicately settled, which between them can not get a real
.-- I went to see this building twice: one Tomas Vazquez was with me, conqueror, and other
Hernando de Guzman, who was found in the circle [171] and Juan de la Playa [172], and believe that this
leyerdes, not anything I tell you what I saw. And andándolo noticing, I saw this fortress beside
a stone than average and had two hundred and seventy spans of round mine, and so high that
parescia who was born there, and all Indians say they are tired of this stone in that place, and
could not move more than there [173], and some, if not to find itself being carved, I do not
believe, though more me affirm that enough to force the men to put there, where will be a witness
what were the inventors of great work, as they have already wrecked Spanish and stopped that, which
I did not want to see the great fault of those who have ruled in allowed, and a notable thing
is hobiese disrupted and broken down, without looking at the times and events that may come
and it was better to have it standing and keep [174].

There were many rooms in this force, one above the other, small, and others between soil large,
and hacíanse two buckets, one larger than another, wide and well taken, I do not know how
expensive, according to cousins ​​and the stones are so well made and carved, and underneath
ground say there are more buildings. And they have other things that do not write, for not having
as true. Was commenced to make this force in time of Inca Yupanqui, styled much your child
Tupac Inca, Huayna Capac and Huascar, and even now is something to see, it was much more without comparison.
When the Spanish entered Cuzco, the Indians took great treasure della Quizquiz, Spanish and
still found [175] one, and he believes there is more della radius of one or the other. What's
this fortress and has been serious Guarco just send preserving [176] memorial to the greatness of this
land and even to take them two such forces, as so easily to find them is made. And I will
come back to the subject.

As these Indians have no letters or tell her things but memory is Dellas old age and their songs
and quipos, I say this, because many things vary, saying some one and some another, and not
enough human trial to him he could write eScript, but take desto said what they claimed to be more
true, for counting. This points to the Spanish quest in Peru who claim to know many secrets
dest, I understand that I knew and understand what they think they know and understand and much more,
and all agreed that written what they see, and that I spent working
on it than themselves.

And so, say the big ears, that being things Inca Yupanqui in this state, determined out of Cuzco
with many people from war to what he called Collao and its regions, and thus, leaving his governor
in the city, went out of it and walked until he reached the great people of Ayavire, where they
say, not the natives of wanting to come into compliance, had cautiously and, taking them neglected,
killed all his neighbors, men and women, with do the same Copacopa those of [177] and of slaughter
of Ayavire was therefore all the more perished, but were not some who later were astonished to
see so great wickedness as crazy angry about the fields, he called his older with great howling
and words fearful [178]. And as the Inca hobiese fallen into the invention so gallant and
profitable mitimaes put, as he saw the beautiful valleys and Ayavire campaigns and the beautiful
river that passes by him [179], ordered them to come of the districts were enough people with
women to populate it, and so it was done, and it made for great buildings and temples of the
sun, and many tanks and casting house, so that, mitimaes village, was more Ayavire principal
before, and the Indians who have been wars and cruelty of the Spanish
mitimaes are all strangers and unnatural, so has eScript.

Without this feature again, that having gone through his command some people enough to captains
give Andesuyo war against those who are the towns and quests in the mountains, ran Snakes as
big as a thick wood, which killed all they could, therefore, who have not seen other enemies,
the war made them so artfully that came within the many who entered, and I have received great anger
the Inca to know that new, and being with their grief, a sorceress said she would go and stop
silly and tame snakes aforementioned, that they should not do evil to none but them same they
sit down. Appreciating the work, if accordance with that, he sent him to put an execution, and
did, by believing them and set no to me, because it seems fun, and
charmed snakes, were the enemies, and subjective many war and others
for prayer and good words that they had.

The Inca left Ayavire, say by the way they call Omasuyo, which for him width was made real as we
see it, and walked through the towns of Oruro [180], Asillo, Azangaro where he had some encounters
with the natives, but such words were said, that with them and gave them gifts, attracted
to his friendship and service, and from then on used for Pulici wearing
the others who had friendship and alliance with the Incas, and made
their concluded in the plain people of the plains.

Passing on Inca Yupanqui, have to visit the most towns bordering the Great Lake Titicaca, whose
very quick, brought all his service, getting in each suit people who used the natural thing of
great pleasure for them and that most loose. Entered into the great lake of Titicaca and the
islands looked in it are made by sending making them the largest sun temple and palaces for himself
and his descendants, and made in his Lordship, and all the rest of the vast region of Collao,
returned to the city of Cuzco with great triumph, to where he had, after it came in large parties
to make their custom, and most provinces came to him with great reverence,
present, and the governors and his delegates had great care to fulfill
all his orders.

CAP. LIII .-- How the left Cuzco Inca Yupanqui, and what he did.

Flying Inca Yupanqui fame in such a way over land, which was everywhere of his great deeds. Many, seeing
their flag or captain, he came to know and provide him vassals, affirming his sayings that
the sky had fallen their past, they knew live with both concert and honor. Inca Yupanqui, without
losing its gravity, I replied meekly did not want to do wrong to any nation, but they should
come and give him obedience, as the sun wanted and ordered. And hobiese around to make people call,
came out with all to what they call it Condesuyo and subject to the Yanaguaras and to the Chumbivilcas,
and some Desta provinces had stout Condesuyo region of battles, but, although he gave much
war their efforts and knowledge was therefore damage and death that many gave obedience, taking
by Lord, as did the others, and put in order, leaving the earth and made chiefs the natives,
and commanding that they should not insult or damage to these subjects, it became Cuzco, placing
first governors in the main parties, to impose on the the natural order that had to have, and
for housing to serve you and make their people together, and take
every great concert, and no one was injured, although were of the
poorest.

After this, have more, rested a few days in Cuzco, because he wanted to go in person to the Andes,
where they had sent their champions who would look and listen for the land and let you know
Art della they were the inhabitants, and as his orders were filled throughout the kingdom maintenance
of tanks, sent Quél that would provide the road had to carry, E was done so, and with the captains
and warriors left Cuzco, where he left the governor to for the administration of justice, and
through the mountains and snowy mountains, he knew his runners at the front, and the great wilderness
of the mountains, and even were the as large snakes breeding in these
thickets, did not hurt none, espantábanse to see how monstrous beasts
and they were.

As the natives of those districts were able to enter its land of the Inca, as many of them by
the hand of their masters had been put in service, we came to do the mocha, bringing present
in many bird feathers and coca and as they had in their earth, and very grateful to all. Other
Indians who lived in those mountains subjects who wanted to be, They
sent messengers, no, deserted villages and metiéronse with their wives
in the thick of the mountain.

Inca Yupanqui had great news that after a few days, to the Levant, had large and densely populated
land.

With this new, greedy to find out, he went on, but, being advised as in Cuzco had happened a stir,
and having friends and they a people Marcapata call, stirred it with great haste to Cuzco,
where he spent a few days.

After these, the Indians say, that as the province of Collao is so great and she had in those
days large number of people and dominions of the powerful natural as Inca Yupanqui knew they
had entered the mountains of the Andes, believing that there would
be dead or would come undone, concertáronse all at once, from Vilcanota
forward, to one side and to another, with very great secrecy, rebels
and not be under the lordship of the Incas, saying it was all big
smallness, their parents having been free and not leaving them in
captivity, secured much land and so great a Lord alone. I should think
yours were the same, did I not know she was dead. Sell her to me, I beseech you: I will give
you more than she is worth, and thank you too.'

'Good woman,' replied King Beder, 'I am heartily sorry I cannot comply with your request: my
mare is not to be sold.'

'Alas! sir,' continued the old woman, 'do not refuse me this favour. My son and I will certainly
die with grief if you do not grant it.'

'Good mother,' replied the king, 'I would grant it with all my heart, if I was disposed to
part with so good a beast; but if I were so disposed, I believe you would hardly give a thousand
pieces of gold for her, and I could not sell her for less.'

'Why should I not give so much?' replied the old woman: 'if that be the lowest price, you need
only say you will take it, and I will fetch you the money.'

King Beder, seeing the old woman so poorly dressed, could not imagine she could find the money;
therefore to try her, he said, 'Go, fetch me the money, and the mare is yours.' The old woman
immediately unloosed a purse she had fastened to her girdle, and desiring him to alight, bade
him tell over the money, and in case he found it came short of the sum demanded, she said her
house was not far off, and she could quickly fetch the rest.

The surprise of King Beder, at the sight of this purse, was not small. 'Good woman,' said he,
'do you not perceive I have been bantering you all this while? I assure you my mare is not
to be sold.'

The old man, who had been witness to all that was said, now began to speak. 'Son,' quoth he
to King Beder, 'it is necessary you should know one thing, which I find you are ignorant of;
and that is, that in this city it is not permitted to any one to tell a lie, on any account
whatsoever, on pain of death. You cannot refuse taking this good woman's money, and delivering
your mare, when she gives you the sum according to the agreement; and this you had better do
without any noise, than expose yourself to what may happen.'

King Beder, sorely afflicted to find himself thus trapped by his rash offer, alighted with
great regret. The old woman stood ready to seize the bridle, and immediately unbridled the
mare, and taking some water in her hand, from a stream that ran in the middle of the street,
she threw it in the mare's face, uttering these words, 'Daughter, quit that strange shape,
and re-assume thine own.' The transformation was effected in a moment, and King Beder, who
swooned as soon as he saw Queen Labe appear, would have fallen to the ground, if the old man
had not caught him.

The old woman, who was mother to Queen Labe, and had instructed her in all her magic secrets,
had no sooner embraced her daughter, than to show her fury, she whistled. Immediately rose
a genie of gigantic form and stature. This genie took King Beder on one shoulder, and the old
woman with the magic queen on the other, and transported them in a few minutes to the palace
of Queen Labe in the City of Enchantments.

The magic queen immediately fell upon King Beder, 'Is it thus, ungrateful wretch,' said she,
'that thou and thy unworthy uncle repay me for all the kindnesses I have done for you? I shall
soon make you both feel what you deserve.' She said no more, but taking water in her hand,
threw it in his face with these words, 'Come out of that shape, and take that of a vile owl.'
These words were followed by the effect, and immediately she commanded one of her women to
shut up the owl in a cage, and give him neither meat nor drink.

The woman took the cage, and without regarding what the queen ordered, gave him both meat and
drink; and being old Abdallah's friend, she sent him word privately how the queen had treated
his nephew, and of her design to destroy both him and King Beder, that he might give orders
to prevent it and save himself.

Abdallah knew no common measures would do with Queen Labe: he therefore did but whistle after
a certain manner, and there immediately arose a vast giant, with four wings, who, presenting
himself before him, asked what he wanted. 'Lightning,' said Abdallah to him (for so was the
genie called), 'I command you to preserve the life of King Beder, son of Queen Gulnare. Go
to the palace of the magic queen, and transport immediately to the capital of Persia the compassionate
woman who has the cage in custody, so that she may inform Queen Gulnare of the danger the king
her son is in, and the occasion he has for her assistance. Take care not to frighten her when
you come before her and tell her from me what she ought to do.'

Lightning immediately disappeared, and got in an instant to the palace of the magic queen.
He instructed the woman, lifted her up into the air, and transported her to the capital of
Persia, where he placed her on the terrace near the apartment where Queen Gulnare was. She
went downstairs to the apartment, and she there found Queen Gulnare and Queen Farasche her
mother lamenting their misfortunes. She made them a profound obeisance and they soon understood
the great need that King Beder was in of their assistance.

Queen Gulnare was so overjoyed at the news, that rising from her seat, she went and embraced
the good woman, telling her how much she was obliged to her for the service she had done.

Then immediately going out, she commanded the trumpets to sound, and the drums to beat, to
acquaint the city that the King of Persia would suddenly return safe to his kingdom. She then
went again, and found King Saleh her brother, whom Queen Farasche had caused to come speedily
thither by a certain fumigation. 'Brother,' said she to him, 'the king your nephew, my dear
son, is in the City of Enchantments, under the power of Queen Labe. Both you and I must go
to deliver him, for there is no time to be lost.'

King Saleh forthwith assembled a powerful body of his marine troops, who soon rose out of the
sea. He also called to his assistance the genies, his allies, who appeared with a much more
numerous army than his own. As soon as the two armies were joined, he put himself at the head
of them, with Queen Farasche, Queen Gulnare, and the princesses. They then lifted themselves
up into the air, and soon poured down on the palace and City of Enchantments, where the magic
queen, her mother, and all the adorers of fire, were destroyed in an instant.

Queen Gulnare had ordered the woman who brought her the news of Queen Labe's transforming and
imprisoning her son to follow her closely, and bade her go, and in the confusion, seize the
cage, and bring it to her. This order was executed as she wished, and Queen Gulnare was no
sooner in possession of the cage than she opened it and took out the owl, saying, as she sprinkled
a little water upon him, 'My dear son, quit that strange form, and resume thy natural one of
a man.'

In a moment Queen Gulnare no more saw the hideous owl, but King Beder her son. She immediately
embraced him with an excess of joy. She could not find in her heart to let him go; and Queen
Farasche was obliged to force him from her in her turn. After her, he was likewise embraced
by the king his uncle and his relations.

Queen Gulnare's first care was to look out for old Abdallah, to whom she had been indebted
for the recovery of the King of Persia. When he was brought to her, she said, 'My obligations
to you, sir, have been so great, that there is nothing in my power that I would not freely
do for you, as a token of my acknowledgment. Do but tell me in what I can serve you.'

'Great queen,' replied Abdallah, 'if the lady whom I sent to your majesty will but consent
to the marriage I offer her, and the King of Persia will give me leave to reside at his court,
I will spend the remainder of my days in his service.'

Then the queen turned to the lady, who was present, and finding that she was not averse to
the match proposed, she caused them to join hands, and the King of Persia and she took care
of their welfare.

This marriage occasioned the King of Persia to speak thus to the queen: 'Madam,' said he, 'I
am heartily glad of this match which your majesty has just made. There remains one more, which
I desire you to think of.'

Queen Gulnare did not at first comprehend what marriage he meant; but after a little considering,
she said, 'Of yours, you mean, son? I consent to it with all my heart.' Then turning, and looking
on her brother's sea attendants, and the genies who were still present, 'Go,' said she, 'and
traverse both sea and land, to find out the most lovely and amiable princess, worthy of the
king my son, and come and tell us.'

'Madam,' replied King Beder, 'it is to no purpose for them to take all that pains. You have
no doubt heard that I have already given my heart to the Princess of Samandal. I have seen
her, and do not repent of the present I then made her. In a word, neither earth nor sea, in
my opinion, can furnish a princess like her. It is true that she treated me in a way that would
have extinguished any affection less strong than mine. But I hold her excused; she could not
treat me with less rigour, after I had had the king her father imprisoned. But it may be the
King of Samandal has changed his mind; and his daughter the princess may consent to love me
when she sees her father has agreed to it.'

'Son,' replied Queen Gulnare, 'if only the Princess Giauhara can make you happy, it is not
my design to oppose you. The king your uncle need only have the King of Samandal brought, and
we shall soon see whether he be still of the same untractable temper.'

Strictly as the King of Samandal had been kept during his captivity by King Saleh's orders,
yet he always had great respect shown him, and was become very familiar with the officers who
guarded him. King Saleh caused a chafing-dish of coals to be brought, into which he threw a
certain composition, uttering at the same time some mysterious words. As soon as the smoke
began to arise, the palace shook, and immediately the King of Samandal, with King Saleh's officers,
appeared. The King of Persia cast himself at the King of Samandal's feet, and kneeling said,
'It is no longer King Saleh that demands of your majesty the honour of your alliance for the
King of Persia; it is the King of Persia himself that humbly begs that boon; and I am sure
your majesty will not persist in being the cause of the death of a king who can no longer live
if he does not share life with the amiable Princess Giauhara.'

The King of Samandal did not long suffer the King of Persia to remain at his feet. He embraced
him and obliging him to rise, said, 'I should be very sorry to have contributed in the least
to the death of a monarch who is so worthy to live. If it be true that so precious a life cannot
be preserved without my daughter, live, sir,' said he, 'she is yours. She has always been obedient
to my will, and I cannot think she will now oppose it.' Speaking these words, he ordered one
of his officers, whom King Saleh had permitted to be about him, to go and look for the Princess
Giauhara, and bring her to him immediately.

The princess had remained where the King of Persia had left her. The officer soon perceived
her, and brought her with her women. The King of Samandal embraced her, and said, 'Daughter,
I have provided a husband for you; it is the King of Persia you see there, the most accomplished
monarch at present in the universe. The preference he has given you over all other Princesses
obliges us both to express our gratitude.'

'Sir,' replied the Princess Giauhara, 'your majesty well knows I never have presumed to disobey
your will in anything; I shall always be ready to obey you; and I hope the King of Persia will
forget my ill-treatment of him, and consider it was duty, not inclination, that forced me to it.'

The wedding was celebrated in the palace of the City of Enchantments, with the greater solemnity
in that all the lovers of the magic queen, who resumed their original forms as soon as ever
that queen ceased to live, came to return their thanks to the King of Persia, Queen Gulnare,
and King Saleh. They were all sons of kings or princes, or persons of high rank.

King Saleh at length conducted the King of Samandal to his dominions, and put him in possession
of them. The King of Persia returned to his capital with Queen Gulnare, Queen Farasche, and
the princesses; and Queen Farasche and the princesses continued there till King Saleh came
to reconduct them to his kingdom under the waves of the sea.

          THE THREE PRINCES AND THE PRINCESS NOURONNIHAR.

There was once a sultan of India who had three sons. These, with the princess his niece, were
the ornaments of his court. But that prince had not been married long before he died, and left
the princess very young. The sultan, out of brotherly love and friendship, took upon himself
the care of his niece's education, and brought her up in his palace with the three princes,
where her singular beauty and personal accomplishments, joined to a sprightly disposition and
irreproachable conduct, distinguished her among all the princesses of her time.

The sultan, her uncle, proposed to get her married, when she arrived at a proper age, to some
neighbouring prince, and was thinking seriously about it, when he perceived that the three
princes his sons had all fallen in love with her. He was very much concerned, owing to the
difficulty he foresaw whether the two younger would consent to yield to their elder brother.
He spoke to each of them apart; and after having remonstrated on the impossibility of one princess
being the wife of three persons, and the troubles they would create if they persisted, he did
all he could to persuade them to abide by a declaration of the princess in favour of one of
them; or to suffer her to be married to a foreign prince. But as he found them obstinate, he
sent for them all together, and said to them, 'Children, since I have not been able to persuade
you no longer to aspire to marry the princess your cousin; and as I have no inclination to
force her to marry any of you, I have thought of a plan which will please you all, and preserve
union among you, if you will but follow my advice. I think it would be best, if every one travelled
separately into a different country, so that you might not meet each other: and as you know
I delight in every thing that is rare and singular, I promise my niece in marriage to him that
shall bring me the most extraordinary curiosity; and for travelling expenses, I will give each
of you a sum befitting your rank and the purchase of the curiosity you search.'

As the three princes were always submissive and obedient to the sultan's will, and each flattered
himself that fortune would favour him, they all consented. The sultan gave them the money he
promised; and that very day they issued orders in preparation for their travels, and took leave
of the sultan, that they might be ready to set out early the next morning. They all went out
at the same gate of the city, each dressed like a merchant, attended by a trusty officer dressed
like a slave, all well mounted and equipped. They went the first day's journey together; and
slept at the first inn, where the road divided into three different tracks. But if he was amazed
at seeing so many riches in one place, he was much more surprised when he came to judge of
the wealth of the whole kingdom by considering that except the Brahmins and ministers of the
idols, who profess a life retired from worldly vanity, there was not an Indian, man or woman,
through the extent of that kingdom, who did not wear necklaces, bracelets, and ornaments about
their legs and feet, made of pearls and other precious stones.

After Prince Houssain had run through the quarter, street by street, his thoughts fully occupied
by the riches he had seen, he was very much tired, and a merchant civilly invited him to sit
down in his shop. He accepted the offer; but had not been seated long before he saw a crier
pass by with a piece of carpet on his arm, about six feet square, and cry it at thirty purses.

It was a custom of the King of Bisnagar to give audience to all strange merchants once a week;
and Prince Houssain, who remained incognito, saw him often; and as he was handsome, clever,
and extremely polite, he easily distinguished himself among the merchants, and was preferred
before them all by the sultan, who asked him about the Sultan of the Indies, and the government,
strength, and riches of his dominions.

The rest of his time the prince spent in seeing what was most remarkable in and about the city;
and among other things he visited a temple, all built of brass. It was ten cubits square, and
fifteen high; and the greatest ornament to it was an idol of the height of a man, of massy
gold: its eyes were two rubies, set so artificially, that it seemed to look at those who looked
at it, on whichever side they turned. Besides this, there was another not less curious, in
a village in the midst of a plain of about ten acres, which was a delicious garden full of
roses and the choicest flowers, surrounded with a small wall breast high, to keep the cattle
out. In the midst of this plain was raised a terrace, a man's height, so nicely paved that
the whole pavement seemed to be but one single stone. A temple was erected in the middle of
this terrace, with a dome about fifty cubits high, which might be seen for several leagues
round. It was thirty cubits long, and twenty broad, built of red marble, highly polished. The
inside of the dome was adorned with three rows of fine paintings, in good taste: and there
was not a place in the whole temple but was embellished with paintings, bas-reliefs, and figures
of idols from top to bottom.

Every night and morning there were ceremonies performed in this temple, which were always succeeded
by sports, concerts, dancing, singing, and feasts. The ministers of the temple and the inhabitants
of the place had nothing to live on but the offerings of pilgrims, who came in crowds from
the most distant parts of the kingdom to perform their vows.

Prince Houssain was also spectator of a solemn feast, which was celebrated every year at the
court of Bisnagar, at which all the governors of provinces, commanders of fortified places,
all the governors and judges of towns, and the Brahmins most celebrated for their learning,
were obliged to be present; and some lived so far off that they were four months in coming.
This assembly, composed of innumerable multitudes of Indians, met in a plain of vast extent,
as far as the eye could reach. In the centre of this plain was a square of great length and
breadth, closed on one side by a large scaffolding of nine stories, supported by forty pillars,
raised for the king and his court, and those strangers whom he admitted to audience once a
week. Inside, it was adorned and furnished magnificently; and on the outside were painted fine
landscapes, wherein all sorts of beasts, birds, and insects, even flies and gnats, were drawn
as naturally as possible. Other scaffolds of at least four or five stories, and painted almost
all alike, formed the other three sides.

On each side of the square, at some little distance from each other, were ranged a thousand
elephants, sumptuously harnessed, each having upon his back a square wooden castle, finely
gilt, in which were musicians and actors. The trunks, ears, and bodies of these elephants were
painted with cinnabar and other colours, representing grotesque figures.

But what Prince Houssain most of all admired was to see the largest of these elephants stand
with his four feet on a post fixed into the earth, two feet high, playing and beating time
with his trunk to the music. Besides this, he admired another elephant as big, standing on
a board, which was laid across a strong beam about ten feet high, with a great weight at the
other end which balanced him, while he kept time with the music by the motions of his body
and trunk.

Prince Houssain might have made a longer stay in the kingdom and court of Bisnagar, where he
would have seen other wonders, till the last day of the year, whereon he and his brothers had
appointed to meet. The deck was swaying as if
they flee from under the feet of the crew, and the mast creaked pulse of the fans candle. But
suddenly the barrier gave way and the boat, leaping, he resumed his march.

The rig, before rigid and tight, hung loose and fainted.

They pulled him and surfaced the hook, but broken, split in half,
despite its size.

The friend shook his head sadly.

- Antonio, the animal can more than us. Let him go, and give thanks
because he has broken the hook.

For a little more going in the background.

- Leave it? - Shouted the pattern -.

A demon! Do you know how much is this piece? It is not time for scruples or fears. He! He!

And by turning the boat returned to the sea where the encounter had
taken place.

He put a new hook, a great hook, which skewered several Rovelo, and
without releasing the Helm took a sharp hook.

Light blow was to let go to that stupid and chunky beast as put at your fingertips!

The rig hanging from the stern almost straight. The boat shuddered again, this time a terribly.
The tuna was well grasped and pulled the hook solid, stopping the boat, making dancing wildly
on the waves.

The water seemed to boil, rose to the surface foam and bubbles in
muddy swirl, which if depth development of a gigantic struggle, and
suddenly the boat, and seized by hidden hands, lay down, filling the
water to half cover.

Flip That broke down to the crew. Antonio, releasing the helm, was almost in the waves; but heard
a crack and the boat regained its normal position.

He had broken the tackle, and the same moment came the tuna with the side, almost at the water,
raising enormous foams with its powerful tail. Ah, you thief!

We finally put a shot!

And anger, as if it were an implacable enemy, Antonio threw several
times with the gaff, sinking iron in that clammy skin.

The water is stained with blood and the animal sank a red swirl.

Antonio breathed at last. Good had escaped: all lasted a few seconds, but a little more, and had
gone to the bottom.

He looked at the wet deck and saw the mast my friend, grabbed him, pale, but unalterable peace.

- I thought we were choking, Antonio.

So I swallowed water! Fucking animal! But good shots you've stirred. She will not take to
stay afloat.

- And the boy?

This is the father asked anxiously, anxiously, as if afraid the answer.

I

was not on deck. Antonio slid down the hatch, expecting to find in the Creek. It sank in water up
to the knee: the sea had flooded. But who thought this? He fumbled in the small, dark space, without
finding more than the barrel of water and gear parts.

He returned to the deck like a madman.

- The boy! The boy! ... My Anton!

The friend grimaced ruefully.

Would not they were close to going overboard? Reckless by a blow, he would have gone to the bottom
like a bullet.

But mate, even thought all this, said nothing.

Far to the site where the boat had been close to capsizing, a black object floating on the water.

-
There he is!

And the father jumped into the water, swimming vigorously, while the
companion slackened sail.

He swam and swam, but its forces left him convinced that the object
was a rowing a wreck of his boat.

When the waves lifted up, pulled the body out to see farther.

Water everywhere.

Over the sea were just him, the boat approached and a black curve
that had just emerged and horribly contracted on a large bloodstain.

The tuna was dead ... Valiente thing he cared! The life of his only
son, of Anton in exchange of that beast!

God! Was this way of earning a living?

He swam more than an hour, believing that each friction body of his son would arise under his
legs, imagining that the shadows of the waves were the child's body floating between two stools.

There
had been, there would have died with his son.

The friend had to catch it and put in the boat like a rebellious child.

- What we do, Anthony?

He did not answer.

- Do not take it well, man. Are things in life. The dead boy that killed all our relatives, where
we die. All a matter of sooner or later ... But now, what we are, to think that we are poor.

And
preparing two nooses tuna seized the body and took him to tow the
boat with blood staining the foam of the wake.

The wind favored them, but the boat was flooded, was sailing badly,
and the two men, sailors Above all, forget the disaster, and the scoops
in hand, worshiped the inside the creek, throwing shovels of water
into the sea.

So the hours passed.

That tough task brutalized Antonio, prevented him from thinking, but tears were rolling their eyes
and more tears, which, mixing with water from the creek, fell in the sea over the grave of
the child.

The boat was sailing with increasing speed, feeling emptied their bowels.

The small port was in sight, with its masses of white houses by the golden afternoon sun.

The sight of land awoke in pain and Antonio numb horror.

- What will my wife?

What will my Rufina? - Groaned the unhappy.

And all men trembling as energetic and daring, which at home are slaves
of the family.

Glided over the sea like a caress cheerful rhythm of waltz.

The land breeze greeted the boat with live and lively melodies.

It was the music played on the promenade, opposite the Casino. Below the flattened palm parade,
like beads on a string of colors, the umbrellas of silk, straw hats,
clear and colorful costumes of all people summer.

The children, dressed in white and pink, leaping and running after their toys, or were gay
Outcry as color wheels turning.

In the spring thronged the office: his eyes, accustomed to the vastness
of the sea, had recognized what was towing the boat.

But Anthony only looked at the end of the pier, a tall, bald and
blackened, standing on a rock, whose skirts swirled the wind.

They arrived at the pier. What cheer! Everyone wanted to see up close the huge animal. Fishermen,
from their boats, threw envious glances, the rascals, nude-colored
brick echábanse water to touch the huge tail.

Rufina was opened through the crowd, reaching her husband, who with
his head down and stupid expression I heard the congratulations of
friends.

- And the boy?

Where's the boy?

The poor man still more his head down. The sunk between his shoulders, as if to make disappear, refusing
to hear, not see anything.

- But Where is Anton?

And Rufina, with shining eyes, as if to devour her husband, she held
on to the front, rudely shaking that big man.

But soon release him, and lifting the arms, burst into terrible scream.

- Oh, Lord ... He is dead!

My Anton has drowned! Is in the sea!

- Yes, women - the husband slowly said awkwardly, mumbling, as if you drown the tears -. We are very
unfortunate. The boy is dead, is where his grandfather, where I will be any day. Eat sea and
the sea has to swallow ... What a relief! Not everyone is born for bishops.

But his wife did not hear him. Was on the ground, shaken by a nervous breakdown, and rolled
kicking, showing her thin and roasted animal nakedness of work, while pulling by the hair, scratching
his face.

- My son!

... My Anton! ...

The neighboring district of fishermen flocked to it. They knew what it meant: nearly all had gone
through the same perils. They lifted her up, holding it with his
powerful arms, and marched towards his house.

Some fishermen took a glass of wine to Antonio, who never ceased to mourn. Meanwhile, compadre,
dominated by the brutal selfishness of life, with buyers haggled
fiercely fish that wanted to purchase a beautiful piece.

The afternoon. The waters, waving gently, taking gold reflections.

At intervals sounded farther and farther away the desperate cry of the poor woman, disheveled
and crazy, jostled her friends home.

- Anton! My son!

And under the palm trees were still parading the colorful costumes, happy, smiling faces, a world
that had not felt the misfortune to spend with him, who had launched a look at the drama of poverty,
and the elegant waltz, rhythmic and voluptuous, anthem cheerful madness, harmonious glided over
the water, stroking his breath the eternal beauty the sea.

Man overboard!

As the night, left the lute Torrevieja San Rafael, with a cargo of salt to Gibraltar.

The cove was packed, and on deck amontonábanse sacks, forming a mountain around the mainmast.
To move from stem to stern, the crew were on the edges, holding with dangerous balance.

The night was good summer night with stars in bulk and a cool breeze, somewhat irregular, that as
soon swelled the great lateen sail up the mast to moan as ceased to blow, falling faint the
vast canvas with loud flapping.

The crew, five men and a boy, had dinner after the exit maneuver,
and once slicing the steaming cauldron, which sank the fishing fraternity
from crust to the pattern to the boy disappeared down the hatch all
off duty, to stand on the hard mattress, their bellies swollen with
wine and watermelon juice.

It was at the helm Uncle Sparks, a toothless shark that growls eagerly welcomed the latest
indications of the pattern, and with him his protege Juanillo, a
rookie who did San Rafael in his first trip, and I was very grateful
to the old man through whom he entered in the crew, killing your hunger,
it was not little.

The wretched lute antojábasele the boy a ship Admiral, a happy ship,
sailing sea ​​of ​​plenty.

Dinner that night was the first dinner he had made serious in your life.

Had reached nineteen years, hungry and almost naked as a savage, sleeping the crooked hut where
her grandmother wailed and prayed, still by rheumatism: day helped
to launch the boats unloading fish baskets, or pest was in boats chasing
tuna and sardines, to take home a handful of tiny fish.

But now, thanks to Uncle Sparks, who was law for having known his father, he was a sailor, was
in way if anything, could rightly put his arm into the cauldron, and even wore shoes, the first
of his life, superb pieces able to navigate as a frigate, which plunged in an ecstasy of worship.
And yet they say that if the sea! ... Come on, man. The best profession the world.

Uncle Sparks, without looking away from the bow rudder and hands, bending to probe the dark
between the sail and the pile of bags, we listened with crafty smile.

- Yes, no profession has made a bad choice.

But is bankruptcy. You'll see ... when you're my age ... But your site is here: go ahead and warn
if you see a boat ahead.

Juanillo ran overboard with the peace of a rogue safe beach.

- Careful, boy, watch out.

But he was in the bow, and sat next to boom, peering into the black surface sea, at the bottom
of reflected light as serpentine thread of the restless stars.

The lute, paunchy and heavy, fell after each wave with a grand chap! I did jump drops Juanillo to
face: two sheets of phosphorescent foam running down both sides of
the thick nose, swollen and sailing, with the top lost in the darkness,
seemed to scratch the vault of heaven.

What king or what Admiral was better than the watchman of the San
Rafael? ... Brrru!

Her stomach belching greeted him with full satisfaction. Life more beautiful! ...

- Uncle Sparks! ... A cigar.

- Come get it.

Juanillo ran down the side of the side opposite the wind.

It was a moment of quiet, and sailing rizábase with strong palpitations,
fainting next to fall along the mast.

But wine a burst, and the boat tipped with fast motion, Juanillo, to keep the balance agarrose
the edge of the sail, and at the same moment it swelled up as if it were to explode launching the
lute in a sprint and pushing hard throughout the body so irresistible
Boy, that shot like a catapult.

At the sound of water to swallow it Juanillo thought he heard a cry,
somewhat confused words; maybe the old helmsman who shouted, "Man
overboard!"

Fell much, much! dazed by the blow, so unexpected fall, but before exact realize it saw himself
again in the sea surface brewing, absorbing fresh wind furiously ... And the boat? Did not
see it now. The sea was very dark, darker that seen from the deck of the lute.

Believed to distinguish a white, a ghost floating in the distance
on the waves, and swam to him.

But suddenly no longer saw him there, but rather the opposite, and
changed direction, disoriented swimming strongly, but not knowing
where to go.

The shoes were weighed as lead, damn! The first time
so I was! Cap I racked the temples, he pulled his pants as if it came
to the bottom of sea ​​and were swept algae.

- Quiet, Juanillo, quiet.

He
threw his cap, wishing he could do the same with shoes.

I was confident.
He swam a lot: he was to hold for two hours. Those in the boat would
turn for fishing: a dip and nothing more ... What then die just like
men? In a storm as they had killed his father and grandfather, good,
but beautiful night with good sea die driven by a candle would be
a fool's death.

And swam and swam, always thinking she saw that ghost
hesitant to move around, waiting that emerge from the darkness the
San Rafael coming after him.

- Ah the boat! Uncle Sparks! ... Pattern!

But
the screaming and distressed him two or three times the waves they
covered his mouth. Damn! ... From the boat seemed insignificant, but
at sea, up to his neck and forced a continuous nudging to hold, choked
him, beat him with their deaf undulation opened before him and moving
deep trenches, then closing them to swallow.

He continued to believe,
but with some concern, in his two hours of endurance. Yes, had them.
Two hours and over there on the beach swam tirelessly. But it was
in daylight hours, at the sea ​​of ​​blue glass, looking down there,
through great transparency, yellow rocks with sharp grass like branches
of coral green, pink shells, stars pearl, bright flowers quivering
fleshy petals to be touched by the belly Silver fish, and was now
in a sea of ​​ink, lost in the dark, overwhelmed From their clothes,
having under his feet who knows how many boats destroyed, how many
bodies emaciated by the ferocious fish! And trembled at the touch
of his wet pants, thinking feel the friction of sharp teeth.

Weary,
faint, lay on his back, carried away by the waves. The flavor of the
meal rose to her mouth. Damn food, and how much it costs to win! There
would eventually die foolishly ... But the survival instinct made
him sit up. Maybe you were looking for, and being stretched would
go near him without seeing him. Another swim, with the anxiety of
despair, joining on the crest of the waves to see farther, going as
soon as another aside, waving always in the same circle.

Leaving
him like a rag fell from the boat. My God! So forget a man? ... But,
perhaps he was wanted at that time. A boat runs a lot, and soon they
had uploaded onto the deck and lowering sail, and would be more than
a mile.

And stroking this illusion, sank gently as if tirasen their
heavy shoes. Felt bitterness in mouth salty, blinded their eyes, the
waters closed over his shaved head; but between two waves formed a
small eddy, clenched hands and peered out again.

The arms were asleep,
his head bent over his chest as overcome by sleep. A Juanillo Heaven
seemed changed: the stars as red as blood splatter. No I was afraid
of the sea, felt the desire to be abandoned on the waters of rest.

She
remembered her grandmother, who at that hour would be considering
it. And he wanted to pray a thousand times had heard his poor old
woman. "Our Father ..." I prayed mentally, but realizing it, her tongue
moved, and said in a voice so hoarse that he thought of another:

-
Pigs! Thieves! I give up!

Sank again, disappeared struggling in vain
to stand. Someone threw their shoes ... Delved into the dark, sipping
water, inert, helpless, but not knowing how, turned back Once the
surface.

Now the stars were black, blacker than the sky, standing
like drops of ink.

It's over. This time they really get to the heart:
your body was made of lead. And fell in a straight line dragged by
his new shoes, and his fall into the abyss of broken boats and skeletons
eaten, the brain, increasingly surrounded by thick fog, kept repeating:

-
Our Father ... Our Father ... Thieves! Rascals! I have left!

A whistle

The
excitement warmed the theater. What a debut! What Lohengrin! Tiple
do that!

On the red of the seats in the courtyard stood out bareheaded
or towers ties, flowers and tulle, motionless, without approaching
the whisper or the boredom, in the boxes silence, no talk shows and
talks in a low voice, up in the raging inferno of the philharmonic
hall, ironically called Paradise, enthusiasm escaped long and loud,
like a huge sigh of satisfaction, every time the voice sounded the
soprano, sweet, powerful and robust. What a night! Everything seemed
new in the theater. The orchestra was angels until the spider was
more light center.

In this excitement took no small part patriotism
satisfied.

At last some viziers, the sultan's favourites, who judged of Prince Ahmed's grandeur and power
by the figure he made, abused the liberty the sultan gave them of speaking to him, to make
him jealous of his son. They represented to him that it was but common prudence to know where
the prince had retired, and how he could afford to live at such a rate, since he had no revenue
or income assigned him; that he seemed to come to court only to brave him; and that it was
to be feared he might stir up the people's favour and dethrone him.

The Sultan of the Indies was so far from thinking that Prince Ahmed could be capable of so
wicked a design as his favourites would make him believe, that he said to them, 'You are mistaken;
my son loves me, and I am assured of his tenderness and fidelity. For this end he sent for
a sorceress, who was introduced by a private door into his room. 'My son Ahmed comes to my
court every month; but I cannot learn from him where he resides, and I do not wish to force
his secret out of him; but I believe you are capable of satisfying my curiosity, without letting
him, or any of my court, know anything of the matter. You know that at present he is here with
me, and is used to go away without taking leave of me, or any of my court.

The steepness of the rocks formed an insurmountable barrier to men, whether on horseback or
on foot, so that the magician judged that there were but two ways; the prince had retired either
into some cavern, or into some place underground, the abode of genies or fairies. When she
thought the prince and his attendants were out of sight, she came out of the place where she
had hidden herself, and went direct to the hollow where she had seen them go in. For this door
was to be seen by and opened to none but men, and only to men whose presence was agreeable
to the fairy Pari Banou, and not at all to women. When she had told him what she had done,
she added, 'Your majesty may easily understand, after what I have had the honour to tell you,
that it will be no difficult matter to give you the satisfaction you desire concerning Prince
Ahmed's conduct. To do this, I only ask time, and that you will have patience, and give me
leave to do it without inquiring what measures I intend to take.'

The sultan was very well pleased with the magician's conduct, and said to her, 'Do as you think
fit: I will wait patiently,' and to encourage her, he made her a present of a diamond of great
value, telling her it was only an earnest of the ample reward she should receive when she had
done him that important service, which he left to her management. When he came into the outer
court of the fairy's palace, without dismounting, he sent to tell her he wanted to speak to
her. This woman is not so ill as she pretends to be; and I am very much mistaken if she is
not sent hither on purpose to cause you great trouble.

In the meantime, the two women to whom the fairy Pari Banou had given her orders carried the
magician into a very fine apartment, richly furnished.

The two women came again at the time they said they should, and found the magician up and dressed,
and seated on the sofa; when she saw them open the door she cried out, 'Oh, the admirable potion!
it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me it would, and I have waited a long time
with impatience, to desire you to take me to your charitable mistress to thank her for her
kindness, for which I shall always be obliged to her.

Pari Banou was seated in this hall, on a throne of massy gold, attended on each hand by a great
number of beautiful fairies, all richly dressed. At the sight of so much majesty, the magician
was so dazzled, that after she had prostrated herself before the throne, she could not open
her lips to thank the fairy, as she proposed. However, Pari Banou saved her the trouble, and
said to her, 'Good woman, I am glad I had the opportunity of obliging you, and to see you are
able to pursue your journey. I will not detain you, but perhaps you may not be displeased to
see my palace; follow my women, and they will show it to you.'

The old sorceress, who had not power nor courage to say a word, prostrated herself a second
time, with her head on the carpet that covered the foot of the throne, and so took her leave,
and was conducted by the two fairies through all the apartments which were shown to Prince
Ahmed on his first arrival there. But what surprised her most of all was, that the two fairies
told her that all she saw and admired so much was a mere sketch of their mistress's grandeur
and riches, and that in the extent of her dominions she had so many palaces that they could
not tell the number of them, all of different architecture, equally magnificent and superb.
They led her at last to the iron gate at which Prince Ahmed brought her in, and after she had
taken her leave of them, and thanked them for their trouble, they opened it, and wished her
a pleasant journey.

After the magician had gone a little way, she turned back again to observe the door and know
it again, but all in vain, for, as was before observed, it was invisible to her and all other
women. Except in this, she was very well satisfied with her work, and posted away to the sultan.
When she came to the capital, she went by a great many by-ways to the private door of the palace.
The sultan being informed of her arrival, sent for her into his apartment and perceiving a
melancholy look on her countenance, he thought she had not succeeded, and said to her, 'By
your looks I guess that you have not made the discovery I expected from you.'

'Sir,' replied the magician, 'your majesty must give me leave to represent that you ought not
to judge by my looks whether or no I have acquitted myself well as regards the commands you
were pleased to honour me with. The melancholy you observe proceeds from another cause than
the want of success.'

Then the magician related to the Sultan of the Indies the whole story of all that happened
from beginning to end.

When the magician had ended, she said, 'What does your majesty think of these unheard-of riches
of the fairy? Perhaps you will say you rejoice at the good fortune of Prince Ahmed your son.
For my part, sir, I beg of your majesty to forgive me if I take the liberty to say that I think
otherwise, and that I shudder when I consider the misfortunes which may happen to you. And
this is the cause of the melancholy which you perceived. I would believe that Prince Ahmed,
by his own good disposition, is incapable of undertaking anything against your majesty; but
who can say that the fairy, by the influence she already has over him, may not inspire him
with a dangerous design of dethroning your majesty, and seizing the crown of the Indies? This
is what your majesty ought to consider serious and of the utmost importance.'

Though the Sultan of the Indies was very sure that Prince Ahmed's natural disposition was good,
yet he could not help being uneasy at the remarks of the old sorceress, and said, 'I thank
you for the pains you have taken, and your wholesome caution. I am so aware of the great importance
it is to me, that I shall take advice upon it.'

He had been consulting with his favourites, when he was told of the magician's arrival. He
ordered her to follow him to them. He acquainted them with what he had learnt, and communicated
to them also the reason he had to fear the fairy's influence over the prince, and asked them
what measures they thought most proper to prevent so great a misfortune. One of the favourites,
taking upon himself to speak for the rest, said, 'Your majesty knows who must be the author
of this mischief. In order to prevent it, now that he is in your court, and in your power,
you ought not to hesitate to put him under arrest: I will not say take away his life, for that
would make too much noise; but make him a close prisoner while he lives.' This advice all the
other favourites unanimously applauded.

The magician, who thought it too violent, asked the sultan leave to speak, which being granted,
she said, 'Sir, I am persuaded that the zeal of your councillors for your majesty's interest
makes them propose arresting Prince Ahmed: but they will not take it amiss if I suggest to
your and their consideration, that if you arrest the prince, you must also detain his retinue.
But they are all genies. Do they think it will be so easy to surprise, seize, and secure their
persons? Will they not disappear, by the property they possess of rendering themselves invisible,
and transport themselves instantly to the fairy, and give her an account of the insult offered
to her husband? And can it be supposed she will let it go unrevenged? But it would be better,
if, by any other means which might not make so great a noise, the sultan could secure himself
against any ill designs Prince Ahmed may have against him, and not involve his majesty's honour.
If his majesty has any confidence in my advice, as genies and fairies can do things impracticable
to men, he will touch Prince Ahmed's honour, and engage him, by means of the fairy, to procure
certain advantages.

'I need say no more to your majesty.

The next day, when the prince came into his father's presence and had sat down by him, after
a conversation on different subjects, the sultan said, 'Son, when you came and dispelled those
clouds of melancholy which your long absence had brought upon me, you made the place you had
chosen for your retreat a mystery to me. I was satisfied with seeing you again, and knowing
that you were content with your condition, without wishing to penetrate into your secret, which
I found you did not care I should. I know not what reason you had thus to treat a father. I
know your good fortune; I rejoice with you, and very much approve of your conduct in marrying
a fairy so worthy of your love, and so rich and powerful, as I am informed. Powerful as I am,
it was not possible for me to have procured so great a match for you. Now that you are raised
to so high a rank as to be envied by everybody but a father like me, I not only desire you
to preserve the good understanding we have lived in hitherto, but to use all your credit with
your fairy to obtain for me her assistance when I want it. I therefore will make a trial this day.

'I am persuaded you could easily procure from her a pavilion that might be carried in a man's
hand, yet which would extend over my whole army; especially when you let her know it is for
me. Though it may be a difficult thing, she will not refuse you. Moreover, he had never asked
anything like it of the fairy Pari Banou, but was satisfied with her continual kindness; therefore
he was in the greatest embarrassment what answer to make. At last he replied, 'If, sir, I have
concealed from your majesty what happened to me and what course I took after finding my arrow,
the reason was that I thought it was of no great importance to you to be informed of them;
and though I know not how this mystery has been revealed to you, I cannot deny that your information
is correct. I have married the fairy you speak of. I love her, and am persuaded she loves me.
But I can say nothing as to the influence your majesty believes I have over her. It is what
I have not yet made any experiment of or thought of, and should be very glad if you would dispense
with my undertaking it, and let me enjoy the happiness of loving and being beloved with all
the disinterestedness I proposed to myself. But the demand of a father is a command upon every
child who, like me, thinks it his duty to obey him in everything. Go, only ask her. Think with
yourself, that as you love her, you could refuse her nothing; therefore, if she loves you,
she will not deny your request.'

All this discourse of the Sultan of the Indies could not persuade Prince Ahmed, who would rather
he had asked anything than the risk of displeasing his dear Pari Banou; and so great was his
vexation, that he left the court two days sooner than usual. 

Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded,
beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst
of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with
their Wives, or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money
to the Capuchin Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and then were burned alive over a
slow fire, all prisoners, with qual it built the family remained very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the
quale sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy
all the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there. Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my
son:? But that sin? Speak without rezelo. For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity
of the pious inquisitor gave me some light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was
not convicted of more than Exercises, discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried
on to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party.
Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop of
Chiapas, where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert them
to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half of
the victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to
end my pilgrimage to Europe for Turkey.

Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties he had
seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism, and
certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the
island where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray
to the Virgin Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian.
iQue honest people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable
enemies in Constantinople, and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the
street, and that separate suits their masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the
Greek Patriarch, who had accused me of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the
divan a hundred sticks on the soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins. Hanged
the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there a month,
I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in the sad precision
frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful Circassian, who
was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the mosque. One night,
the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are the sacramental
words of the Turks; I thought you were the love, And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.
Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to
get circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood,
a man of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a thousand
sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin, and
if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the
same one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still
divided into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties,
and I found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom I left paying a lot
of sequins, not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning
souls for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul. There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits
The Chinese wanted to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the
fashion of Rome. Sucediome the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His
Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope. Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin
to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff, who had at his command four brackets, which seized
me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme, after hundred and forty prostrations, before
His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope and if it was true that the prince had to
come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope was a clergyman of more than seventy years,
that his statements were far more than four thousand miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China,
that his army was two thousand soldiers standing guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned,
and I could sleep without His Majesty fear. This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did
more than send me to Macao, where I embarked for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and
I take advantage of the opportunity to see the court of the Aurengzeb,
of whom there were then a thousand wonders.

It was this monarch in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day
of the pompous ceremony that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was
the broom which had swept the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia
all the filth of the soul. It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan
religious whole, since it had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had
destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and
nobody talked about anything but his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was
not that of the sacred majesty of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to adjudicate
between these two August sovereign.

I confess, however, that a French boy, who locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India
and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence in Europe had very principles governing sovereign
rightly his states, and also frequeentaban churches, without taking life so their parents and
siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter realized expressions india
impias of this boy. I trained with him on other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and
went with the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great Aurengzeb officials, and
not having found more than the interpreter, was this executed in the main square, without flattery
confessed all that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel.

My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them for violating the laws of nations. He was answered
by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth, and our wool curl, your
skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct laws of nature, we
must always be enemies. At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack animals, to force
us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos haceis we pierce the mountains
to get a kind of yellow powder that nothing is good, and that's no good, or very, a chive Egypt.
Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land, and if not you cut
the noses and ears.

There was replicated as discrete reasoning. I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears and
my nose, and after a year I rescued.

Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable in the earth, I determined to see no
more than my household gods: I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most
pleasant condition of human life.

End of the voyages of castigating.

       

* * * * *

       

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom I
had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four
thousand five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take
this step in my story pen, and calculated that taking the Lord Don
Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput twenty-four
thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and
we citizens of the land going through the community of five feet,
and taking our globe nine thousand miles in circumference, it is absolutely
essential that the planet where our national hero has fully twenty-one
million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth.

Well, nothing is more common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy,
which may beating in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image,
still very distant from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and
some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the
Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years, fed medium geometry,
and malisimo metaphysical. Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood,
dissects a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes
were hiding regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises.
The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious,
ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to
see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas
Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after
two hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti
condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read,
and was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths
very funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel
planet to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to
walking in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our
ball of mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the
forces attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that now mounted in a sunbeam,
now riding a kite, balloon balloon went he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from
branch to branch. Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among
the stars that is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious
Derham, curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works,
who strives to prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.].
I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake,
but after Micromegas was in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict
anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see
new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could not
release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that Saturn is
nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs of about two
thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their servants,
as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes to France, but Sirius was the man of
reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous,
since there from six thousand feet height. Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked,
and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of great talent,
which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account of the inventions of others,
and to regularly couplets girls and big load. I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers,
a conversation very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr.
Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is
very diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers ....
Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of blonde
and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other.
Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler, nature is
as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice, 'said the
secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler. Tell
me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the
academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa back
our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our five moons
do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of our
seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and
that other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior
to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than real
needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed,
but I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish facts.
? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The same
is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness of
life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino is five
hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near, counting
as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one point, a
moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop
of water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous
in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive
than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and revive
differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of metamorphosis,
it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have been in countries
where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained, but are
everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature, which with
a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless profusion.
So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the gift of
thinking and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties globe.
? Qantas of these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale
we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred, to wit
the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt, replied
the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate room, and in
all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in all proportions.
Your globe is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject has
a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested? Very ashen white,
'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven colors. The
strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all quanta have examined,
I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet is a face that no differs
from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and
was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned
to Saturn. Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many
things, and having discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution, were determined to make
a short journey together philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of mathematical
instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew, it came to make bitter complaints. This was
a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired with
the boy through his body. iha cruel! exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when
I had just given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime abandoned by traveling
with a giant another world! Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love,
that if you were Saturnino legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less
wandering is that you our five moons, and less changeable our annulled.

This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her, weeping with her, as philosopher, and
the lady, after having fainted, went to console with a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon
in moon. A comet passing close to the last, and threw him with his
servants and instruments. Just had walked a hundred and fifty million
miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. For this reason he is at this moment imprisoned
in an old tower which I make my residence, and whence I came but just now from admiring him.'

'I will not absolutely contradict you,' replied Danhasch; 'but, my pretty lady, you must give
me leave to be of opinion, till I have seen your prince, that no mortal upon earth can come
up to the beauty of my princess.'

'Hold thy tongue, cursed sprite,' replied Maimoune. 'I tell thee once more that that can never be.'

'I will not contend with you,' said Danhasch; 'but the way to be convinced whether what I say
is true or false is to accept the proposal I made you to go and see my princess, and after
that I will go with you to your prince.'

'There is no need I should take so much pains' replied Maimoune; 'there is another way to satisfy
us both; and that is for you to bring your princess, and place her in my prince's room; by
this means it will be easy for us to compare them together and determine the dispute.'

Danhasch consented to what Maimoune had proposed, and determined to set out immediately for
China upon that errand. But Maimoune told him she must first show him the tower whither he
was to bring the princess. They flew together to the tower, and when Maimoune had shown it
to Danhasch, she cried, 'Go, fetch your princess, and do it quickly, for you shall find me
here: but listen, you shall pay the wager if my prince is more beautiful than your princess,
and I will pay it if your princess is more beautiful than my prince.'

Danhasch left Maimoune, and flew towards China, whence he soon returned with incredible speed,
bringing the fair princess along with him, asleep. Maimoune received him, and introduced him
into the tower of Prince Camaralzaman, where they placed the princess still asleep.

At once there arose a great contest between the genie and the fairy about their respective
beauty. They were some time admiring and comparing them without speaking: at length Danhasch
broke silence, and said to Maimoune, 'You see, as I have already told you, my princess is handsomer
than your prince; now, I hope, you are convinced of it.'

'Convinced of it!' replied Maimoune; 'I am not convinced of it, and you must be blind if you
cannot see that my prince is far handsomer. The princess is fair, I do not deny; but if you
compare them together without prejudice, you will quickly see the difference.'

'Though I should compare them ever so often,' said Danhasch, 'I could never change my opinion.
I saw at first sight what I see now, and time will not make me see differently: however, this
shall not hinder my yielding to you, charming Maimoune, if you desire it.'

'Yield to me as a favour? I scorn it,' said Maimoune: 'I would not receive a favour at the
hand of such a wicked genie; I refer the matter to an umpire, and if you will not consent I
shall win by your refusal.'

Danhasch no sooner gave his consent than Maimoune stamped with her foot; the earth opened,
and out came a hideous, humpbacked, squinting, and lame genie, with six horns on his head,
and claws on his hands and feet. As soon as he had come forth, and the earth had closed up,
he, perceiving Maimoune, cast himself at her feet, and then rising up on one knee asked her
what she would please to do with him.

'Rise, Caschcasch,' said Maimoune, 'I brought you hither to determine a difference between
me and Danhasch. Look there, and tell me, without partiality, which is the handsomest of those
two that lie asleep, the young man or the young lady.'

Caschcasch looked at the prince and princess with great attention, admiration and surprise;
and after he had considered them a good while, without being able to determine which was the
handsomer, he turned to Maimoune, and said, 'Madam, I must confess I should deceive you and
betray myself, if I pretended to say that one was a whit handsomer than the other: the more
I examine them, the more it seems to me that each possesses, in a sovereign degree, the beauty
which is betwixt them. But if there be any difference, the best way to determine it is to awaken
them one after the other, and by their conduct to decide which ought to be deemed the most
beautiful.'

This proposal of Caschcasch's pleased equally both Maimoune and Danhasch. Maimoune then changed
herself into a gnat, and leaping on the prince's neck stung him so smartly that he awoke, and
put up his hand to the place; but Maimoune skipped away, and resumed her own form, which, like
those of the two genies, was invisible, the better to observe what he would do.

In drawing back his hand, the prince chanced to let it fall on that of the Princess of China,
and on opening his eyes, was exceedingly surprised to perceive a lady of the greatest beauty.
He raised his head and leaned on his elbow, the better to consider her. She was so beautiful
that he could not help crying out, 'What beauty! my heart! my soul!' In saying which he kissed
her with so little caution that she would certainly have been awaked by it, had she not slept
sounder than ordinary, through the enchantment of Danhasch.

He was going to awaken her at that instant, but suddenly refrained himself. 'Is not this she,'
said he, 'that the sultan my father would have had me marry? He was in the wrong not to let
me see her sooner. I should not have offended him by my disobedience and passionate language
to him in public, and he would have spared himself the confusion which I have occasioned him.'

The prince began to repent sincerely of the fault he had committed, and was once more upon
the point of waking the Princess of China. 'It may be,' said he, recollecting himself, 'that
the sultan my father has a mind to surprise me with this young lady. Who knows but he has brought
her himself, and is hidden behind the curtains to make me ashamed of myself. I will content
myself with this ring, as a remembrance of her.'

He then gently drew off a fine ring which the princess had on her finger, and immediately put
on one of his own in its place. After this he fell into a more profound sleep than before through
the enchantment of the genies.

As soon as Prince Camaralzaman was in a sound sleep, Danhasch transformed himself, and went
and bit the princess so rudely on the lip that she forthwith awoke, started up, and opening
her eyes, was not a little surprised to see a beautiful young prince. From surprise she proceeded
to admiration, and from admiration to a transport of joy.

'What,' cried she, 'is it you the king my father has designed me for a husband? I am indeed
most unfortunate for not knowing it before, for then I should not have made him so angry with
me. Wake then, wake!'

So saying, she took Prince Camaralzaman by the arm and shook him so that he would have awaked,
had not Maimoune increased his sleep by enchantment. She shook him several times, and finding
he did not wake, she seized his hand, and kissing it eagerly, perceived he had a ring upon
his finger which greatly resembled hers, and which she was convinced was her own, by seeing
she had another on her finger instead of it. She could not comprehend how this exchange could
have been made. Tired with her fruitless endeavours to awaken the prince, she soon fell asleep.

When Maimoune saw that she could now speak without fear of awaking the princess, she cried
to Danhasch, 'Ah, cursed genie dost thou not now see what thy contest has come to? Art thou
not now convinced how much thy princess is inferior to my prince? But I pardon thee thy wager.
Another time believe me when I assert anything.' Then turning to Caschcasch, 'As for you,'
said she, 'I thank you for your trouble; take the princess, you and Danhasch, and convey her
back whence he has taken her.' Danhasch and Caschcasch did as they were commanded, and Maimoune
retired to her well.

Prince Camaralzaman on waking next morning looked to see if the lady whom he had seen the night
before were there. When he found she was gone, he cried out, 'I thought indeed this was a trick
the king my father designed to play me. I am glad I was aware of it.' Then he waked the slave,
who was still asleep, and bade him come and dress him, without saying anything. The slave brought
a basin and water, and after he had washed and said his prayers, he took a book and read for
some time.

After this, he called the slave, and said to him, 'Come hither, and look you, do not tell me
a lie. How came that lady hither, and who brought her?'

'My lord,' answered the slave with great astonishment, 'I know not what lady your highness
speaks of.'

'I speak,' said the prince, 'of her that came, or rather, that was brought hither.'

'My lord,' replied the slave, 'I swear I know of no such lady; and how should she come in without
my knowledge, since I lay at the door?'

'You are a lying rascal,' replied the prince, 'and in the plot to vex and provoke me the more.'
So saying, he gave him a box on the ear which knocked him down; and after having stamped upon
him for some time, he at length tied the well-rope under his arms, and plunged him several
times into the water, neck and heels. I will drown thee,' cried he, 'if thou dost not tell
me speedily who this lady was, and who brought her.'

The slave, perplexed and half-dead, said within himself, 'The prince must have lost his senses
through grief.' 'My lord, then,' cried he, in a suppliant tone, 'I beseech your highness to
spare my life, and I will tell you the truth.'

The prince drew the slave up, and pressed him to tell him. As soon as he was out of the well,
'My lord,' said he trembling, 'your highness must perceive that it is impossible for me to
satisfy you in my present condition; I beg you to give me leave to go and change my clothes first.'

'I permit you, but do it quickly,' said the prince, 'and be sure you conceal nothing.'

The slave went out, and having locked the door upon the prince, ran to the palace just as he
was. The king was at that time in discourse with his prime vizier, to whom he had just related
the grief in which he had passed the night on account of his son's disobedience and opposition
to his will. The minister endeavoured to comfort his master by telling him that the prince
himself had given him good cause to be angry. 'Sir,' said he, 'your majesty need not repent
of having treated your son after this sort. Have but patience to let him continue a while in
prison, and assure yourself his temper will abate, and he will submit to all you require.'

The grand vizier had just made an end of speaking when the slave came in and cast himself at
the king's feet. 'My lord,' said he, 'I am very sorry to be the messenger of ill news to your
majesty, which I know must create you fresh affliction. The prince is distracted, my lord;
and his treatment to me, as you may see, too plainly proves it.' Then he proceeded to tell
all the particulars of what Prince Camaralzaman had said to him, and the violence with which
he had been treated.

The king, who did not expect to hear anything of this afflictive kind, said to the prime minister,
'This is very melancholy, very different from the hopes you gave me just now: go immediately,
without loss of time, see what is the matter, and come and give me an account.'

The grand vizier obeyed instantly; and coming into the prince's chamber, he found him sitting
on his bed in good temper, and with a book in his hand, which he was reading.

After mutual salutations, the vizier sat down by him, and said, 'My lord, I wish that a slave
of yours were punished for coming to frighten the king your father.'

'What,' replied the prince, 'could give my father alarm? I have much greater cause to complain
of that slave.'

'Prince,' answered the vizier, 'God forbid that the news which he has told your father concerning
you should be true; indeed, I myself find it to be false, by the good temper I observe you in.'

'It may be,' replied the prince, 'that he did not make himself well understood; but since you
are come, who ought to know something of the matter, give me leave to ask you who was that
lady who was here last night?'

The grand vizier was thunderstruck at this question; however, he recovered himself and said,
'My lord, be not surprised at my astonishment at your question. Is it possible that a lady,
or any other person in the world, should penetrate by night into this place, without entering
at the door and walking over the body of your slave? I beseech you, recollect yourself, and
you will find it is only a dream which has made this impression on you.'

'I give no ear to what you say,' said the prince, raising his voice; 'I must know of you absolutely
what is become of the lady; and if you hesitate to obey me, I shall soon be able to force you
to obey me.'

At these stern words the grand vizier began to be in greater confusion than before, and was
thinking how to extricate himself. He endeavoured to pacify the prince by good words, and begged
of him, in the most humble and guarded manner, to tell him if he had seen this lady.

'Yes, yes,' answered the prince, 'I have seen her, and am very well satisfied you sent her.
She played the part you had given her admirably well, for I could not get a word out of her.
She pretended to be asleep, but I was no sooner fallen into a slumber than she arose and left
me. You know all this; for I doubt not she has been to make her report to you.'

'My lord,' replied the vizier, 'nothing of this has been done which you seem to reproach me
with; neither your father nor I have sent this lady you speak of; permit me therefore to remind
your highness once more that you have only seen this lady in a dream.'

'Do you come to affront and contradict me,' said the prince in a great rage, 'and to tell me
to my face that what I have told you is a dream?' At the same time he took him by the beard,
and loaded him with blows as long as he could stand.

The poor grand vizier endured with respectful patience all the violence of his lord's indignation,
and could not help saying within himself, 'Now am I in as bad a condition as the slave, and
shall think myself happy if I can, like him, escape from any further danger.' In the midst
of repeated blows he cried out for but a moment's audience, which the prince, after he had
nearly tired himself with beating him, consented to give.

'I own, my prince,' said the grand vizier, dissembling, 'there is something in what your highness
suspects; but you cannot be ignorant of the necessity a minister is under to obey his royal
master's orders; yet, if you will but be pleased to set me at liberty, I will go and tell him
anything on your part that you shall think fit to command me.'

'Go then,' said the prince, 'and tell him from me that if he pleases I will marry the lady
he sent me. Do this quickly, and bring me a speedy answer.' The grand vizier made a profound
reverence, and went away, not thinking himself altogether safe till he had got out of the tower,
and shut the door upon the prince.

He came and presented himself before the king, with a countenance that sufficiently showed
he had been ill-used, which the king could not behold without concern. 'Well,' said the king,
'in what condition did you find my son?'

'Sir,' answered the vizier, 'what the slave reported to your majesty is but too true.' He then
began to relate his interview with Camaralzaman, how he flew into a passion upon his endeavouring
to persuade him it was impossible that the lady he spoke of should have got in; the ill-treatment
he had received from him; how he had been used, and by what means he made his escape.

The king, the more concerned as he loved the prince with excessive tenderness, resolved to
find out the truth of this matter, and therefore proposed himself to go and see his son in
the tower, accompanied by the grand vizier.

Prince Camaralzaman received the king his father in the tower with great respect. The king
sat down, and, after he had made his son the prince sit down by him, put several questions
to him, which he answered with great good sense. The king every now and then looked at the
grand vizier, as intimating that he did not find his son had lost his wits, but rather thought
he had lost his.

The king at length spoke of the lady to the prince. 'My son,' said he, 'I desire you to tell
me what lady it was that came here, as I have been told.'

'Sir,' answered Camaralzaman, 'I beg of your majesty not to give me more vexation on that head,
but rather to oblige me by letting me have her in marriage: this young lady has charmed me.
I am ready to receive her at your hands with the deepest gratitude.'

The king was surprised at this answer of the prince, so remote, as he thought, from the good
sense he had shown before. 'My son,' said he to him, 'you fill me with the greatest astonishment
imaginable by what you now say to me; I declare to you by my crown, that is to devolve upon
you after me, I know not one word of the lady you mention; and if any such has come to you,
it was altogether without my knowledge. But how could she get into this tower without my consent?
For whatever my grand vizier told you, it was only to appease you: it must therefore be a mere
dream; and I beg of you not to believe otherwise, but to recover your senses.'

'Sir,' replied the prince, 'I should be for ever unworthy of your majesty's favour, if I did
not give entire credit to what you are pleased to say; but I humbly beseech you at the same
time to give a patient hearing to what I shall say to you, and then to judge whether what I
have the honour to tell you be a dream or not.'

Then Prince Camaralzaman related to the king his father after what manner he had been awakened,
and the pains he took to awaken the lady without effect, and how he had made the exchange of
his ring with that of the lady: showing the king the ring, he added, 'Sir, your majesty must
needs know my ring very well, you have seen it so often. The
object of the intellect is the essence of the thing, quidditas, as expressive of the scholastics; and
sensitive performances tell us nothing about the essence. We offer a look of things, and even
this is limited to the perception of the extension, for in that respect to other sensations, but
rather experience a subjective fact that instinct and reason do we attribute to external causes,
we can not perceive the same arrangement of objects.

[232.] This latter observation suggests to me one that can support the conjecture that, in rising
intelligence to some degree, is incompatible with the sensitive faculties. In feelings We note,
we would say even anything about that aspect or disposition of the external world if they had to base
the extension, what do you reduce the corporeal world if we assume unextended? Having thus shown
(Chap. II.) That the extension, but based on some feelings, no is direct and immediate object of sensation,
is the only thing in the sensitive faculties makes us feel something about the reality of
objects is not really sensible. Then if the character of intellectual perception is to know the
reality of the object, the more intelligence is raised, more distant find the feeling, being
able to get case that intellectual and sensory faculties are incompatible
in the same subject.

[233.] Will understand better the strength of the observation above, casting a glance at the scale
of beings, and noticing what happens, as they are more perfect.

The isolation of a being, indicates imperfection: the slightest idea that we form an object,
is when you conceive of absolute limits to its existence, without any internal activity, or external,
completely inert.

So we figured a stone has its existence with shape: it is what has been done, and nothing else:
it retains the form that you have given but did not involve any activities, to communicate with
other beings has no conscience what is, in all relationships is completely passive, receives, but
does not give or can give.

[234.] As things rise in the level of perfection ceases isolation:
with the passive properties, combining the active, such agents conceive
corporeal While not yet reached the status of living, and take an
active part in the production of phenomena emerging from the laboratory
of nature.

In these beings, to more than have, find what they can: their relationships with others are
many and varied: its existence not limited to his own circle, it expands, communicating in
some way to rest.

[235.] As you enter the order of organic beings, and we find ourselves with a more nature expansive:
life is a continuous expansion.

The living being, somehow extends to time they have ceased to exist, confining itself reproductive
germs, not itself only for itself but also for others in its smallness, is nothing more than an
imperceptible link in the great chain of nature, but this link vibrates, so to speak, and their
vibrations propagated to the farthest reaches.

[236.] When life rises to the feeling, spreads even more, the feelings, somehow locked in the
universe with the consciousness of what they experience, is put into new relationships with all that
work on it. The perception is immanent, that is, lies in the same subject, but combined with the
subjectivity of objectivity, by which the universe is to be reflected in a point. So just being
there in itself is somehow the other things, verifying the saying
of the scholastics, so full of deep meaning: "What we know is the
thing known."

In no certain order sensations: they are the more perfect The less subjective: the noblest,
are what put us in communication with objects strictly speaking, those which are not limited to the
experience of the objects that cause us, but knowledge of what they are.

[237.] There for the objectivity of the sensations a base that is the extension: and this, and is
not directly and immediately felt: the only thing that moves us as it were, to the outside, is not
proper sense. The extension, which teaches us something about the reality of beings, with
respect to certain provisions of them together, is rather the subject
of intelligence sensitive to a power, the sensation is over, and science
is born.

And science is not limited what appears to objects, but to what is in them, the understanding does
not stop in the subjective, passes into the objective, and when you can not reach reality, it
expands by regions of possibility.

[238.] In this look just throw on the scale of beings, is that perfection of these is proportional
to its expansion, that, as they are more perfect, leaving more of
the own field, and enter the outside.

Here is that perception, the highest, is less subjective: the smallest degree what the feeling
is limited to what is experienced by the subject percipient, the highest level, intelligence, dispenses
with the experienced and deals real, and its own object.

[239.] We should infer from the above that if we know the intimate nature of pure spirits, you may
find that the sensitive faculties, were completely incompatible with the elevation of his mind:
and that the analogies based on the nature of our perceptions, are useless, referring to a way
of understanding more perfect than ours.

Whatever, it must be acknowledged that the issue would be resolved in a very incomplete if we had limited
to one aspect of simplicity, and that considerations the nature of intelligence should make us
cautious not to assert as possible, perhaps we would not be, if we knew more about the nature
of things.

[240.] So far I have spoken referring to the inner possibility of things, what we will think of
reality? this is a matter of fact that can only be solved with data provided by experience,
and these data are missing: because we are not in immediate communication, or with separate souls,
nor with pure spirits.

[241.] If we find any reason to deny the soul all the sensitive faculties, as soon as it is separated
from the body, and equal to all the pure spirits could find, rather than the essence of things,
in consideration of the purpose for which these powers are used. The soul, while united to the body,
presides over an organization subject to the general laws of the corporeal universe. In exercising
its functions as convenient, it needs to be in constant communication with his own body and
the around him, taking sensible intuition of corporate relations, being advised by pain of any disorder
that occurs in your body, and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an instinct that guided and
tempered by reason, I can tell helpful or necessary.

When the soul is not attached to the body, there is no reason to have any of these diseases
need to target not having them in their actions: and as this reason militaria with respect to all
pure spirits, you can guess the cause of the difference that should exist between the state
of our soul in this life, and spiritual beings not attached to any body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may
be in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be
so sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no
separate soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we
could not say with complete security sensitive conditions that they
were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve, it seems to strip
the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful
powers that help them over their understanding, is a powerful mobile
many of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ​​pain or pleasure, but by mediating conditions of
feeling. In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple
acts of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that
we feel a pleasure in what you do not want.

After wanting and not wanting their own, and while in this life, do not involve pleasure or
displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever it
is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical
issues could be resolved by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful
set of faculties we call heart does not fall into the pit, but flies
with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real world
has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent soul
scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw
boundaries to the Almighty, calling impossible that the sight of a
sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are
subjected to the test of reason.

What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate nature of the objects, and
that therefore can exist or cease to exist, without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can
not be together in one place.

For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with abstraction of the body, is talking
about nothing. Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of
bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can be
considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will match
perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part of
another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In
both cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration
is no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which Place
the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only when the two objects
are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which case the impenetrability
is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what is supposed to separate,
that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then the geometric
impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because that exists in
the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty
of contradictions.

It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this point,
the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal globe,
as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that
it is not the regular order, which contradicts such assumptions, but
the very essence of things.

In this case, stated that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that analysis of
this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ​​place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so
that I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The situation
of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension
of each individual body is but a set of relations of its parts together,
to reach or to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will
be approached by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself. Nevertheless, I cannot but rejoice that I am come seasonably enough to
bring your highness that remedy of which you stand so much in need; and though I should reap
no other fruit of my studies and long voyage, I should think myself fully recompensed.'

Speaking these words, Marzavan drew forth out of his pocket a book and other things, which
he judged necessary to be used, according to the account he had had from his mother of the
princess's illness. The princess, seeing him make all these preparations, cried out, 'What!
brother, are you then one of those that believe me mad? Undeceive yourself and hear me.'

The princess then began to relate to Marzavan all the particulars of her story, without omitting
the least circumstance, even to the ring which was exchanged for hers, and which she showed him.

After the princess had done speaking, Marzavan, filled with wonder and astonishment, continued
for some time with his eyes fixed on the ground, without speaking a word; but at length he
lifted up his head and said, 'If it be as your highness says, which I do not in the least doubt,
I do not despair of procuring you the satisfaction you desire; but I must first entreat your
highness to arm yourself with patience for some time longer, till I shall return after I have
travelled over kingdoms which I have not yet visited; and when you hear of my return, be assured
that the object of your wishes is not far off.' So saying, Marzavan took leave of the princess,
and set out next morning on his intended journey.

He travelled from city to city, from province to province, and from island to island, and in
every place he passed through he could hear of nothing but the Princess Badoura (which was
the Princess of China's name), and her history.

About four months afterwards, Marzavan arrived at Torf, a seaport town, great and populous,
where he no more heard of the Princess Badoura, but where all the talk was of Prince Camaralzaman,
who was ill, and whose history very much resembled hers. Marzavan was extremely delighted to
hear this, and informed himself of the place where the prince was to be found. There were two
ways to it; one by land and sea, the other by sea only, which was the shortest way.

Marzavan chose the latter, and embarking on board a merchant ship, he arrived safe in sight
of the capital; but, just before it entered the port, the ship struck against a rock through
the unskilfulness of the pilot, and foundered. It went down in sight of Prince Camaralzaman's
castle, where were at that time the king and his grand vizier.

Marzavan could swim very well, and immediately on the ship's sinking cast himself into the
sea, and got safe to the shore under the castle, where he was soon relieved by the grand vizier's
order. After he had changed his clothes and been well treated, and had recovered, he was introduced
to the grand vizier, who had sent for him.

Marzavan being a young man of good air and address, this minister received him very civilly;
and when he heard him give such just and fitting answers to what was asked of him, conceived
a great esteem for him. He also gradually perceived that he possessed a great deal of knowledge,
and therefore said to him, 'From what I can understand, I perceive you are no common man; you
have travelled a great way: would to God you had learned any secret for curing a certain sick
person, who has greatly afflicted this court for a long while!'

Marzavan replied that if he knew what malady it was, he might perhaps find a remedy for it.

Then the grand vizier related to him the whole story of Prince Camaralzaman from its origin,
and concealed nothing; his birth, his education, the inclination the king his father had to
see him married early, his resistance and extraordinary aversion to marriage, his disobeying
his father in full council, his imprisonment, his pretended extravagancies in prison, which
were afterwards changed into a violent madness for a certain unknown lady, who, he pretended,
had exchanged a ring with him; though, for his part, he verily believed there was no such person
in the world.

Marzavan gave great attention to all the grand vizier said; and was infinitely rejoiced to
find that, by means of his shipwreck, he had so fortunately lighted on the person he was looking
after. He saw no reason to doubt that Prince Camaralzaman was the man, and the Princess of
China the lady; therefore, without explaining himself further to the vizier, he desired to
see him, that he might be better able to judge of his illness and its cure. 'Follow me,' said
the grand vizier, 'and you will find the king with him, who has already desired that I should
introduce you.'

The first thing that struck Marzavan on entering the prince's chamber was to find him upon
his bed languishing, and with his eyes shut. Although he saw him in that condition, and although
the king his father was sitting by him, he could not help crying out, 'Was there ever a greater
resemblance!' He meant to the Princess of China; for it seems the princess and prince were
much alike.

The words of Marzavan excited the prince's curiosity so far that he opened his eyes and looked
at him. Marzavan, who had a ready wit, laid hold of that opportunity, and made his compliment
in verse extempore: but in such a disguised manner, that neither the king nor grand vizier
understood anything of the matter. However, he represented so nicely what had happened to him
with the Princess of China, that the prince had no reason to doubt that he knew her, and could
give him tidings of her. This made him so joyful, that the effects of it showed themselves
in his eyes and looks.

After Marzavan had finished his compliment in verse which surprised Prince Camaralzaman so
agreeably, his highness took the liberty to make a sign to the king his father, to go from
the place where he was, and let Marzavan sit by him.

The king, overjoyed at this alteration, which gave him hopes of his son's speedy recovery,
quitted his place, and taking Marzavan by the hand, led him to it. Then his majesty demanded
of him who he was, and whence he came. And upon Marzavan's answering that he was a subject
of China and came from that kingdom, the king cried out, 'Heaven grant that you may be able
to cure my son of this profound melancholy, and I shall be eternally obliged to you; all the
world shall see how handsomely I will reward you.' Having said thus, he left the prince to
converse at full liberty with the stranger, whilst he went and rejoiced with the grand vizier.

Marzavan leaning down to the prince, spoke low in his ear, thus: 'Prince,' said he, 'it is
time you should cease to grieve. The lady for whom you suffer is the Princess Badoura, daughter
of Gaiour, King of China. This I can assure your highness from what she has told me of her
adventure, and what I have learned of yours. She has suffered no less on your account than
you have on hers.' Here he began to relate all that he knew of the princess's story, from the
night of their extraordinary interview.

He omitted not to acquaint him how the king had treated those who had failed in their pretensions
to cure the princess of her indisposition. 'But your highness is the only person,' added he,
'that can cure her effectually, and may present yourself without fear. However, before you
undertake so great a voyage, I would have you perfectly recovered, and then we will take such
measures as are necessary. Think then immediately of the recovery of your health.'

This discourse had a marvellous effect on the prince. He found such great relief that he felt
he had strength to rise, and begged leave of his father to dress himself, with such an air
as gave the old king incredible pleasure.

The king could not refrain from embracing Marzavan, without inquiring into the means he had
used to produce this wonderful effect, and soon after went out of the prince's chamber with
the grand vizier to publish this agreeable news. He ordered public rejoicings for several days
together, and gave great largesses to his officers and the people, alms to the poor, and caused
the prisoners to be set at liberty throughout his kingdom. The joy was soon general in the
capital and every corner of his dominions.

Prince Camaralzaman, though extremely weakened by almost continual want of sleep and long abstinence
from almost all food, soon recovered his health. When he found himself in a condition to undertake
the voyage, he took Marzavan aside, and said, 'Dear Marzavan, it is now time to perform the
promise you have made me. I burn with impatience to see the charming princess, and if we do
not set out on our journey immediately I shall soon relapse into my former condition. One thing
still troubles me,' continued he, 'and that is the difficulty I shall meet with in getting
leave of my father to go. This would be a cruel disappointment to me, if you do not contrive
a way to prevent it. You see he scarcely ever leaves me.'

At these words the prince fell to weeping: and Marzavan said, 'I foresaw this difficulty; let
not your highness be grieved at that, for I will undertake to prevent it. My principal design
in this voyage was to deliver the Princess of China from her malady, and this from all the
reasons of mutual affection which we have borne to each other from our birth, besides the zeal
and affection I otherwise owe her; and I should be wanting in my duty to her, if I did not
do my best endeavour to effect her cure and yours, and exert my utmost skill. This then is
the means I have contrived to obtain your liberty. You have not stirred abroad for some time,
therefore let the king your father understand you have a mind to take the air, and ask his
leave to go out on a hunting party for two or three days with me. No doubt he will grant your
request; when he has done so, order two good horses to be got ready, one to mount, the other
to change, and leave the rest to me.'

Next day Prince Camaralzarnan took his opportunity. He told the king he was desirous to take
the air, and, if he pleased, would go and hunt for two or three days with Marzavan. The king
gave his consent, but bade him be sure not to stay out above one night, since too much exercise
at first might impair his health, and a too long absence create his majesty uneasiness. He
then ordered him to choose the best horses in his stable, and himself took particular care
that nothing should be wanting. When all was ready, his majesty embraced the prince, and having
recommended the care of him to Marzavan, he let him go. Prince Camaralzaman and Marzavan were
soon mounted, when, to amuse the two grooms that led the fresh horses, they made as if they
would hunt, and so got as far off the city and out of the road as was possible. When night
began to approach, they alighted at a caravansera or inn, where they supped, and slept till
about midnight; then Marzavan awakened the prince without awakening the grooms, and desired
his highness to let him have his suit, and to take another for himself, which was brought in
his baggage. Thus equipped, they mounted the fresh horses, and after Marzavan had taken one
of the groom's horses by the bridle, they set out as hard as their horses could go.

At daybreak they were in a forest, where, coming to the meeting of four roads, Marzavan desired
the prince to wait for him a little, and went into the forest. He then killed the groom's horse,
and after having torn the prince's suit, which he had put off, he besmeared it with blood and
threw it into the highway.

The prince demanded his reason for what he had done. He told his highness he was sure the king
his father would no sooner find that he did not return, and come to know that he had departed
without the grooms, than he would suspect something, and immediately send people in quest of
them. 'They that come to this place,' said he, 'and find these blood-stained clothes, will
conclude you are devoured by wild beasts, and that I have escaped to avoid the king's anger.
The king, persuading himself that you are dead will stop further pursuit, and we may have leisure
to continue our journey without fear of being followed. I must confess,' continued Marzavan,
'that this is a violent way of proceeding, to alarm an old father with the death of his son,
whom he loves so passionately; but his joy will be the greater when he hears you are alive
and happy.'

'Brave Marzavan,' replied the prince,' I cannot but approve such an ingenious stratagem, or
sufficiently admire your conduct: I am under fresh obligations to you for it.'

The prince and Marzavan, well provided with cash for their expenses, continued their journey
both by land and sea, and found no other obstacle but the length of time which it necessarily
took up. They, however, arrived at length at the capital of China, where Marzavan, instead
of going to his lodgings, carried the prince to a public inn. They tarried there incognito
for three days to rest themselves after the fatigue of the voyage; during which time Marzavan
caused an astrologer's dress to be made for the prince. The three days being expired, the prince
put on his astrologer's habit; and Marzavan left him to go and acquaint his mother, the Princess
Badoura's nurse, of his arrival, to the end that she might inform the Princess.

Prince Camaralzaman, instructed by Marzavan as to what he was to do, and provided with all
he wanted as an astrologer, came next morning to the gate of the king's palace, before the
guards and porters, and cried aloud, 'I am an astrologer, and am come to effect a cure on the
estimable Princess Badoura, daughter of the most high and mighty monarch Gaiour, King of China,
on the conditions proposed by his majesty, to marry her if I succeed, or else to lose my life
for my fruitless and presumptuous attempt.'

Besides the guards and porters at the gate, this drew together a great number of people about
Prince Camaralzaman. No physician, astrologer, nor magician had appeared for a long time, deterred
by the many tragic examples of ill success that appeared before their eyes; it was therefore
thought that there were no more men of these professions in the world, or that there were no
more so mad as those that had gone before them.

The prince's good mien, noble air, and blooming youth made everybody that saw him pity him.
'What mean you, sir,' said some that were nearest to him, 'thus to expose a life of such promising
expectation to certain death? Cannot the heads you see on all the gates of this city deter
you from such an undertaking? Consider what you do: abandon this rash attempt, and be gone.'

The prince continued firm, notwithstanding all these remonstrances; and as he saw nobody come
to introduce him, he repeated the same cry with a boldness that made everybody tremble. Then
they all cried, 'Let him alone, he is resolved to die; God have mercy upon his youth and his
soul!' He then proceeded to cry out a third time in the same manner, when the grand vizier
came in person, and introduced him to the King of China.

As soon as the prince came into the king's presence, he bowed and kissed the ground. The king,
who, of all that had hitherto presumptuously exposed their lives on this occasion, had not
seen one worthy to cast his eyes upon, felt real compassion for Prince Camaralzaman on account
of the danger he was about to undergo. But as he thought him more deserving than ordinary,
he showed him more honour, and made him come and sit by him. 'Young man,' said he, 'I can hardly
believe that you, at this age, can have acquired experience enough to dare attempt the cure
of my daughter. I wish you may succeed; and would give her to you in marriage with all my heart,
with the greatest joy, more willingly than I should have done to others that have offered themselves
before you; but I must declare to you at the same time, with great concern, that if you do
not succeed in your attempt, notwithstanding your noble appearance and your youth you must
lose your head.'

'Sir,' replied the prince, 'I am under infinite obligations to your majesty for the honour
you design me, and the great goodness you show to a stranger; but I desire your majesty to
believe that I would not have come from so remote a country as I have done, the name of which
perhaps may be unknown in your dominions, if I had not been certain of the cure I propose.
What would not the world say of my fickleness, if, after such great fatigues and dangers as
I have undergone on this account, I should abandon the enterprise? Even your majesty would
soon lose that esteem you have conceived for me. If I must die, sir, I shall die with the satisfaction
of not having lost your esteem after I have merited it. I beseech your majesty therefore to
keep me no longer impatient to display the certainty of my art.'

Then the king commanded the officer who had the custody of the princess to introduce Prince
Camaralzaman into her apartment: but before he would let him go, he reminded him once more
that he was at liberty to renounce his design; yet the prince paid no heed, but, with astonishing
resolution and eagerness, followed the officer.

When they came to a long gallery, at the end of which was the princess's apartment, the prince,
who saw himself so near the object of the wishes which had occasioned him so many tears, pushed
on, and got before the officer.

The officer, redoubling his pace, with much ado got up with him. 'Whither away so fast?' cried
he, taking him by the arm; 'you cannot get in without me: and it would seem that you have a
great desire for death thus to run to it headlong. Not one of all those many astrologers and
magicians I have introduced before made such haste as yourself to a place whither I fear you
will come but too soon.'

'Friend,' replied the Prince, looking earnestly at the officer, and continuing his pace, 'this
was because none of the astrologers you speak of were so sure of their art as I am of mine:
they were certain, indeed, that they would die if they did not succeed, but they had no certainty
of their success. On this account they had reason to tremble on approaching the place whither
I go, and where I am sure to find my happiness.' He had just spoken these words as he was at
the door. The officer opened it, and introduced him into a great hall, whence was an entrance
into the princess's chamber, divided from it only by a piece of tapestry.

Prince Camaralzaman stopt before he entered, speaking softly to the officer for fear of being
heard in the princess's chamber. 'To convince you,' said he, 'that there is neither presumption,
nor whim, nor youthful conceit in my undertaking, I leave it to your own desire whether I should
cure the princess in your presence, or where we are, without going any further?'

The officer was amazed to hear the prince talk to him with such confidence: he left off insulting
him, and said seriously, 'It is no matter whether you do it here or there, provided the business
is done: cure her how you will, you will get immortal honour by it, not only in this court,
but over all the world.'

The prince replied, 'It will be best then to cure her without seeing her, that you may be witness
of my skill: notwithstanding my impatience to see a princess of her rank, who is to be my wife,
yet, out of respect to you, I will deprive myself of that pleasure for a little while.' He
was furnished with everything suitable for an astrologer to carry about him; and taking pen,
ink, and paper out of his pocket, he wrote a letter to the princess.

When the prince had finished his letter, he folded it up, and enclosed in it the princess's
ring, without letting the officer see what he did. When he had sealed it, he gave it to him:
'There, friend,' said he, 'carry it to your mistress; if it does not cure her as soon as she
reads it, and sees what is inclosed in it, I give you leave to tell everybody that I am the
most ignorant and impudent astrologer that ever was, is, or shall be.'

The officer, entering the Princess of China's chamber, gave her the packet he received from
Prince Camaralzaman. 'Madam,' said he, 'the boldest astrologer that ever lived, if I am not
mistaken, has arrived here, and pretends that on reading this letter and seeing what is in
it you will be cured; I wish he may prove neither a liar nor an impostor.'

The Princess Badoura took the letter, and opened it with a great deal of indifference, but
when she saw the ring, she had not patience to read it through; she rose hastily, broke the
chain that held her, ran to the door and opened it. She knew the prince as soon as she saw
him, and he knew her; they at once embraced each other tenderly, without being able to speak
for excess of joy: they looked on one another a long time, wondering how they met again after
their first interview. The princess's nurse, who ran to the door with her, made them come into
her chamber, where the Princess Badoura gave the prince her ring, saying, 'Take it; I cannot
keep it without restoring yours, which I will never part with; neither can it be in better hands.'

The officer immediately went to tell the King of China what had happened. 'Sir,' said he, 'all
the astrologers and doctors who have hitherto pretended to cure the princess were fools in
comparison with the last. He made use neither of schemes nor spells or perfumes, or anything
else, but cured her without seeing her.' Then he told the king how he did it. The monarch was
agreeably surprised at the news, and going forthwith to the princess's chamber embraced her:
he afterwards embraced the prince, and, taking his hand, joined it to the princess's.

'Happy stranger,' said the king, 'whoever you are, I will keep my word, and give you my daughter
to marry; though, from what I see in you, it is impossible for me to believe that you are really
what you appear to be, and would have me believe you.'

Prince Camaralzaman thanked the king in the most humble tones, that he might the better show
his gratitude. 'As for my person,' said he, 'I must own I am not an astrologer, as your majesty
very judiciously guessed; I only put on the habit of one, that I might succeed more easily
in my ambition to be allied to the most potent monarch in the world. I was born a prince, and
the son of a king and queen; my name is Camaralzaman; my father is Schahzaman, who now reigns
over the islands that are well known by the name of the Islands of the Children of Khaledan.'
He then told him his history.

When the prince had done speaking, the king said to him, 'This history is so extraordinary
that it deserves to be known to posterity; I will take care it shall be; and the original being
deposited in my royal archives, I will spread copies of it abroad, that my own kingdoms and
the kingdoms around me may know it.'

The marriage was solemnized the same day, and the rejoicings for it were universal all over
the empire of China. Nor was Marzavan forgotten: the king immediately gave him an honourable
post in his court, and a promise of further advancement; and held continual feastings for several
months, to show his joy.

                     THE LOSS OF THE TALISMAN.

Soon after his marriage Prince Camaralzaman dreamt one night that he saw his father Schahzaman
on his death-bed, and heard him speak thus to his attendants: 'My son, my son, whom I so tenderly
loved, has abandoned me.' He awoke with a great sigh, which aroused the princess, who asked
him the cause of it. Next morning the princess went to her own father, and finding him alone
kissed his hand and thus addressed herself to him: 'Sir, I have a favour to beg of your majesty;
it is that you will give me leave to go with the prince my husband to see King Schahzaman,
my father-in-law.'

'Daughter,' replied the king, 'though I shall be very sorry to part with you for so long a
time, your resolution is worthy of you: go, child, I give you leave, but on condition that
you stay no longer than a year in King Schahzaman's court.'

The princess communicated the King of China's consent to Prince Camaralzaman, who was transported
with joy to hear it.

The King of China gave orders for preparations to be made for the journey; and when all things
were ready, he accompanied the prince and princess several days' journey on their way. They
parted at length with great weeping on all sides: the king embraced them, and having desired
the prince to be kind to his daughter, and to love her always, he left them to proceed on their
journey, and, to divert his thoughts, hunted all the way home. Marieta's brought Pepet that
den, pleased to have as his most beautiful woman in the district.

What a way to live! Good women remembered him with scandal. Everyone could see that this marriage
was for Bad Art. Pepet barely left his house, forgot the fields, leaving release the laborers
did not want a moment away from his wife, and the people, through the open door or windows always
open, caught the hugs; saw them chasing each laughter and caresses, in full intoxication of happiness,
insulting fill with everyone. That was not live as Christians. They were angry dogs chasing,
with the thirst of passion never extinguished. Ah, the great loss! She and the mother blazed
guts with their drinks.

Everyone could see in Pepet increasingly thinner, more yellow, smaller,
like a candle that melting.

The village doctor, only to be mocked witches, potions and credulity, talked to separate them
as the only remedy. But the two went together, he increasingly fallen and miserable, she getting
fat, ruddy, arrogant, insulting gossip with their air of sovereignty.

They had a son, and two months after Pepet died slowly, like a light extinguished, calling his wife
until the last minute, extending his hand to her anxious.

The one that was assembled in the village!

Was there the effect of bad drinks. The old woman locked in his hut fearing people, the daughter
went out in a few weeks and neighbors heard their cries. Finally, some evenings, defying the hostile
stares, was with her child the cemetery.

At first he was somewhat afraid to Teulaí, the terrible brother, for whom killing was occupation
men, and, outraged by the death of his brother, spoke at the tavern to pieces the woman and
the witch mother. But a month ago it was gone.

Be with the roders in the mountains, or the business would have led to the other end of the province.
Marieta dared at last to leave the village, to go to Valencia for shopping ... Ah, lady! How
important is giving the money to her poor husband! Perhaps it wanted the snobs will say something,
seeing it as nice weekend ...

And buzzing around the car whispering hostile poured into her eyes, but opened Marieta their
large eyes compelling, loud air sucked in a gesture of contempt,
and turned to look at carob trees, the dusty olive, white houses,
fleeing in a circle around the train, while the horizon inflammable
on contact with the sun, which sinking through thick fleece of gold.

He stopped the train at a small station, and women who had discussed more Marieta hurried down,
throwing forward their baskets and baskets.

Some stayed in the village and fired from the other, the neighbors of Marietta, which still had to
walk an hour to get home.

The beautiful widow with a child in her arms and supporting the strong hip shopping cart, left
the station at a slow pace. I wanted the down the road those gossips hostile to be allowed to go alone,
without having to suffer the torment of his grumbling.

In the town's streets, narrow, tortuous and advanced eaves, there was little light. Latest extendíanse
houses in two rows along the road. Could be seen beyond the fields, blue with the arrival of
dusk, and far above the broad, dusty strip of way, like a rosary
marcábanse ant women with head bundles, immediately marched towards
the village, whose tower looming behind a hill its cap of glazed tiles,
bright with the latest reflection of the sun.

Marieta, brave girl, suddenly felt some anxiety at being alone on the road. This was very long,
and closed the night before he got home.

On a door balanceábase the olive branch, dusty and dry, an indicator of a tavern. Under him, and
back to town was a small man, leaning against the doorjamb and the hands on the belt.

Marieta noticed him ... If it turns out that looking back was his brother, my God, what shock!
But sure it was far away, moved on, savoring the cruel idea of ​​meeting
through what I thought impossible, trembling at the thought that was
Teulaí which was to tavern door.

Walked past him without looking up.

- Good afternoon, Marieta.

Was it ... And the widow, to reality, did not experience the thrill of times before. Could not
doubt.

Teulaí was the Barbarian treacherous smile, as he looked more upset
with those eyes and cruel than his words.

Answered with a hello! fainted, and she, so great, so strong, she
felt her legs wavered and even made an effort to make the child fall
from her arms.

Teulaí smiled slyly. There was no need to panic. Were they not related?

He was glad the meeting, would accompany the people and by the way talk of some issues.

- Avant, avant - said the man.

And Bouncers followed after him, meek as a lamb, forming contrast
rude woman big, powerful, strong muscles, which seemed drawn by Teulaí,
sickly, miserable and ruin, in which only betrayed the character the
pinpricks of light that gave off strange his eyes.

Marieta knew what he was capable. Strong and brave men had fallen due by the evil bug.

In the last house in the village an old neighborhood chanting his website.

- Donates Bona, bona Donate! - Teulaí shouted.

The good woman went, pulling the broom. It was too famous Marieta's brother-in many miles around
not to be obeyed immediately.

He took the child from the arms of her sister, and without looking, as if to avoid a tenderness
unworthy of him, he passed into the arms of the old, entrusting their care ... Was a matter
of half Time: back soon for him, as after a certain order.

Marieta broke into tears and rushed the child to kiss him. But his brother pulled.

- Avant, avant.

It was getting late.

Subdued by the terror inspired by this man poisonous to those around
him, continued Later, without the child and without the basket, while
the old woman crossing herself, she hurried to get at home.

Hardly be distinguished as white spots in the road undecided women marching the people. The
dark brown fumes extendíanse separate fields, the trees took a shade
of dark blue, and up in the sky, purple, pulsing the first stars.

Continued silent several minutes, until Marieta stopped with an inspired
choice fear ... What I had to say, the same could be there than elsewhere.

And legs trembled, stammered and did not dare raise his eyes from
seeing your brother.

In the distance sounded squeaky wheels of extended voice called through the fields, tearing the
quiet atmosphere of twilight.

Marietta looked forward to the road.

Nobody. They were alone she and her brother.

This, always with his infernal smile, spoke slowly ... What I had
to say was to pray, and if he was afraid he could throw her apron
over her face.

To a man as he a brother kill him with impunity.

Marietta drew back, with the terrified expression when one awakes in the middle of danger. His
imagination, clouded by fear, had conceived before I got there the greatest brutality, beatings horrible,
the body bruised, her hair pulled, but ... Pray and cover your face!

Die! And such enormity that so coldly! ...

With word hit, trembling, pleading, tried to soften Teulaí. All were lies people. He had wanted
the soul to his poor brother, he still wanted, if he was dead not
believe her, she had not had the courage to be aloof and cold with
a man so in love.

But the bully listened increasingly emphasizing his smile, which was
already a grin.

- Shut up, fill the Bruixa!

She and her mother had died the poor Pepet.

Everyone knew it had consumed bad drinks ... And if he listened now
also be able to bewitch.

But no, he not fall as the fool of his brother.

And to prove his strength of hyena, no other love than that of blood, grabbed his bony hands
Marieta's face, lifted for a closer look, looking pale emotionless
cheeks, black eyes burning behind the tears shining.

- Bruixa ...
envenenaora!

Tiny and miserable in appearance, struck a boost to the good-looking,
his knees this superb machine hard flesh, and reached into his back
belt.

Marietta was shocked. Nobody on the road. In the distance the same cries, the same chirp Wheel:
singing frogs in a pond immediate rattled on the slopes the crickets and a dog howled mournfully
beyond the last houses in the village. Hundíanse fields in the vapors of the night.

Finding himself alone, to convince himself that he would die, all his arrogance disappeared
pretty girl; felt weak as a child and his mother beat him and broke into sobs.

- Kill me, kill me! - Moaned face breaking into the black apron wrapped around his head.

Teulaí impassive approached her with a gun in his hand. Even heard the voice of his sister moaning
through the black cloth as a child cries, begging him to the top area soon that did not suffer
inserting their pleas between fragments of prayers recited hastily. And as a man of experience,
looked to the mouth of the gun in one package black, firing both barrels at once.

Amid the smoke and the flashes Marieta saw himself standing like a spring-driven collapse with
a kick of his clothes messed agony.

In the black mass were exposed inert white stockings seductive roundness
quivering with the last gasp.

Teulaí, quiet as a man who has no fear and ultimately to a shelter in the mountain, immediately
returned to the village in search of his nephew, satisfied with his achievement.

By taking the little one's hands of the terrified old, almost cried.

- Poblete! Meu poor fellow! - Said kissing him.

And his uncle inundábase awareness of satisfaction have made sure the little one big deal.

Wall

Whenever Uncle Rabosa grandchildren were the children of the widow of Casporra in the paths of
the garden or on the streets of Campanar, the whole neighborhood commented the event. It had
looked! ... Was insulted by the gesture! ... That would end badly, and when you least thought
the people would suffer a new disappointment.

The mayor's most notable residents preached peace to the young man
of the two families enemy, and he was the priest, an old man of God,
from one house to another recommending oblivion offenses.

Thirty years of hatred and Casporras Rabosas brought uproar to Campana. Almost the gates of Valencia,
the sunny little town from the river looking at the city with the round windows of his sharp
bell, echoed those barbarians, with a grudge Africa, the history of struggles and violence
of the great Italian families in the Middle Ages. They had been friends in another time, their
homes, although located in different streets, bordered by the pen,
separated only by a low wall.

One night, for reasons of irrigation a Casporra tended in the garden of a shotgun to a child's
uncle Rabosa, and the youngest of this, because it was stated that
the family were not men, succeeded, after a months of stalking, placing
a bullet between the eyes to the killer.

Since then the two families live to kill themselves, thinking more about harness the neighbor's carelessness
in the cultivation land. Gunshots in the middle of the street at dusk shots flashed from the
bottom of a ditch or embankment after cañares or when returning from the hated enemy field, once a
Rabosa or Casporra way to the cemetery with an ounce of lead in the skin, and thirst for revenge
without extinction, rather, ends with the new generations, it seemed that in both houses and
the little ones out of his belly mothers tending their hands the
shotgun to kill the neighbors.

After thirty years of struggle, only Casporras house was a widow with three children seemed
towers guys went muscles. The other was the guy Rabosa, with eighty years, still on a couch
of straw, his legs dead from paralysis as a wrinkled idol of vengeance, to which his two grandsons
vowed to defend the prestige of the family.

But times were different.

It was no longer possible to go dead and their parents in the middle
square output mass. The Civil Guard were not lost sight of, the neighbors
watched, and one of them was enough to stop a few minutes in a trail
or in a corner be when surrounded by people who advised him peace.

Tired of this surveillance degenerated into persecution and stood between them as insurmountable
obstacles, Casporras and eventually Rabosas not found, and even fled
when they stand before the accident to face.

Such was his desire not to be isolated and that seemed low wall that
separated their yards.

The hens of each other, climbing the piles of firewood, fraternizing
at the top of the fences, the women of both houses changed from windows
gestures of contempt.

What I could not resist, it was like living with the family and the widow had her children
Casporra lifted a rod wall. The neighbors were quick to express their disdain with stone and mortar,
and added some more to the wall spans.

       And so, in this move and repeated demonstration hatred, the Wall
was going up and up.

No longer see the windows and shortly thereafter were not the roofs of poor poultry birds
trembled in the dark shadow of that wall that hid the sky, and their crowing sounded sad and subdued
through that Wall, monument of hatred, which looked kneaded with
bones and blood of the victims.

Thus passed the time for the two
families, not attack each other and in time, but approach: stationary
and crystallized in their hatred.

One afternoon sounded the alarm
bells of the village. Uncle's house burned Rabosa. Grandchildren were
in the garden, the wife of one of these in the laundry room, and through
the cracks of doors out windows and thick smoke from burning straw.
Inside, looking raging inferno expansion, was the grandfather, the
poor guy Rabosa motionless in his chair. The granddaughter was tearing
hair, arrested and charged for his neglect, people in arremolinábase
Street, frightened by the force of fire. Some, braver, opened the
door, but was to go back to the dense cloud of smoke filled with sparks
that spread down the street.

- The grandfather! Poor grandfather!
- Screamed that of Rabosas look back in vain in search on a savior.

The
frightened neighbors experienced the same awe as if they had seen
the bell march to them. Three guys went running into the burning house.
Were Casporras. It had looked at changing a nod of intelligence, and
without further words were thrown as salamanders in the huge hearth.
The crowd cheered at seeing them reappear as holding high a saint
in his litter Rabosa the guy on his couch of straw. Without looking
at the old abandoned even, and again inside.

- No, no - people screaming.

But
they smiled moving forward. Iban to save some of the interests of
their enemies. If Uncle Rabosa grandchildren were there, or would
have moved them from home. But only it was an old man, who must protect
as men of heart. And people are soon saw on the street and inside
the house, going into the smoke, sparks shaking as restless demons,
throwing furniture and bags for getting back into the flames.

The
crowd screamed when they saw the two older brothers taking the child
in her arms. A tree, fell, broke her leg.

- Soon a chair!

People,
in their haste, tore the old Rabosa of his chair to sit esparto the
wounded.

The boy, his hair singed and smoky face, smile hiding the
pangs that made him puckering. He felt shaky hands, rough, with scales
of old age, oppressing their own.

- Fill meu! Fill meu! - Wailed
the voice of Rabosa uncle, who was crawling toward him.

And before
the poor boy could stop the paralytic sought with his toothless mouth
deep and had clasped hands and kissed them, kissed them countless
times, bathing them with tears.

* * * * *

It burned the whole house.
And when the builders were called in to build another, grandchildren
Rabosa uncle would not let them start with clean ground, covered with
black debris. Previously they had to do a more urgent: the wall down
damn. Till now he had been almost every night a stranger to rest, his trouble always keeping
him awake, but the next night he slept soundly: he rose somewhat later the next morning than
he was accustomed to do, put on his working clothes, and went to the gardener for orders. The
good man bade him root up an old tree which bore no fruit.

Camaralzaman took an axe, and began his work. In cutting off a branch of the root, he found
that his axe struck against something that resisted the blow and made a great noise. He removed
the earth, and discovered a broad plate of brass, under which was a staircase of ten steps.
He went down, and at the bottom saw a cavity about six yards square, with fifty brass urns
placed in order around it, each with a cover over it. He opened them all, one after another,
and there was not one of them which was not full of gold-dust. He came out of the cave, rejoicing
that he had found such a vast treasure: he put the brass plate over the staircase, and rooted
up the tree against the gardener's return.

The gardener had learned the day before that the ship which was bound for the Isle of Ebony
would sail in a few days, but the exact time was not yet fixed. His friend promised to let
him know the day, if he called upon him on the morrow; and while Camaralzaman was rooting up
the tree, he went to get his answer. He returned with a joyful countenance, by which the prince
guessed that he brought him good news. 'Son,' said the old man (so he always called him, on
account of the difference of age between him and the prince), 'be joyful, and prepare to embark
in three days, for the ship will then certainly set sail: I have arranged with the captain
for your passage.'

'In my present situation,' replied Camaralzaman, 'you could not bring me more agreeable news;
and in return, I have also tidings that will be as welcome to you; come along with me, and
you shall see what good fortune heaven has in store for you.'

The prince led the gardener to the place where he had rooted up the tree, made him go down
into the cave, and when he was there showed him what a treasure he had discovered, and thanked
Providence for rewarding his virtue, and the labour he had done for so many years.

'What do you mean?' replied the gardener: 'do you imagine I will take these riches as mine?
They are yours: I have no right to them. For fourscore years, since my father's death, I have
done nothing but dig in this garden, and could not discover this treasure, which is a sign
that it was destined for you, since you have been permitted to find it. It suits a prince like
you, rather than me: I have one foot in the grave, and am in no want of anything. Providence
has bestowed it upon you, just when you are returning to that country which will one day be
your own, where you will make a good use of it.'

Prince Camaralzaman would not be outdone in generosity by the gardener. They had a long dispute
about it. At last the prince solemnly protested that he would have none of it, unless the gardener
would divide it with him and take half. The good man, to please the prince, consented; so they
parted it between them, and each had twenty-five urns.

Having thus divided it, 'Son,' said the gardener to the prince, 'it is not enough that you
have got this treasure; we must now contrive how to carry it so privately on board the ship
that nobody may know anything of the matter, otherwise you will run the risk of losing it. 

Rather than overwhelm Faust, as he emptied the Holy Land, Mephistopheles will laugh with his
appearance, leaving the dog's body, surrendered to the charms and threats. When Fausto forces
him to define himself, Mephistopheles defines a part of that force which always wants evil and
always does good.

Mephistopheles wants to destroy vitiate and corrupt, but can only
do this as a retail attends to the general good and the whole creation
and continuous, much against his liking.

Faust, by signing a pact with him, treats him as superior to inferior, as a master to a servant;
and is almost certain that the devil will never win the bet will not give you what they want. Not
only does not fall, so to speak, under the jurisdiction and power of the devil much desired
by Faust, but not even understood by the evil spirit, because it is in regions above, to the
spirit that never soars. In the genius, who lives in Faust inner strength is a thousand times more
powerful than all the powers of the devil. The trouble is that this force is not exerted himself
out of Faust. It creates an ideal way as you: outside can do nothing. But those things ideals,
Fausto creates itself, conceived and desired, the devil only the
minimum and less worth can do in the outside world, nor be even understand
them.

Even Mephistopheles, thanks to the poet's fancy has to be proper and independent personality,
yet, for us to conceive better essence, we figurárnosle as a result of psychological analysis
of the soul of Faust. It is the most bestial and earth of the soul, Part clever and smart, which serves
to provide enjoyment, wealth, power, authority and influence in this world, part Faust had
neglected and even wasted and discarded, to be delivered their higher wisdom. Disabused of these
high wisdom, and anxious for everything that he despised them, it
seems that returns to it that most dastardly of his soul, under the
form and with being a devil.

The under diabolical about Fausto and for other spirits higher no never denies. Science, progress,
higher level of human souls have the devil made a character more or less. His power is not
exercised and indisputable but in a wretched world, including gross, who strive to play and win
money to look men, and that by chance something will go either to say they have understanding,
and between little old ignorant and vicious, they have some secrets and recipes, ignoring the
why and the how, wonders the same act, such as the witch and cats
and monkeys who serve and accompany.

Faust feels so reduced to appeal to the foul witch potion in order to recover the youth, that's
almost about to become old and breaking the covenant from the beginning
with Mephistopheles little suspecting that the devil can, and counts
and as little that he can wait a noble spirit.

The property is worth so little devil and evil. On top of the devil, and no good, no evil immensely greater
than that Mephistopheles can never heal the soul of Faust. Faust, for get some good of the devil,
and to submit to their rule, have to stifle the aspiration top of his soul. When lives and
breathes with her, the devil does not give the slightest relief the
torments that occurs, but also the soul completely removes any influence
of devil, and laughs of all covenants.

In the rare theogony of Goethe, the devil is not only below what supernatural term and look
at the aspirations of the soul of Faust, but also far lower than natural, As it is natural
and divine creator. Therefore, in the plebeian society stupid the coven, where for a moment Fausto
trap for fools, Mephistopheles struts and triumphs; but in the second half when, with the effort
of the will and the miracles of knowledge Intelligence and Fausto, displayed the geniuses
ancient Greece, imagined, all those personified powers of nature creative and intelligent, Mephistopheles
shrinks, humiliated and almost cringe; Mephistopheles has to hide and disguise under the ugly appearance
one of the Forquiadas.

Not only in power, but even in ugliness than those Mephistopheles old creations.

Although it quickly, without stopping matter how big claims, so as
not to exceed and give this work an improper extension of the object
that is intended, something must be said the second part of Faust.

Several people have called the Bible completely FAUSTO pantheism.

Nothing seems more unfair. Pantheistic Goethe was not resolved, but if any of his works are
inclined to pantheism is not true FAUSTO, where rather contradicts him.

It is true that to say that we must assume that we understand the second part, and is common opinion that
no one understands.

Perhaps, the same as the Bible called pantheism which, logically, implies that the understanding,
the last name of the seven seals book, delirium, maze, perpetual enigma. We may seem paradoxical,
and we imputed to arrogance, affirm the opposite: everything is very clear in the second half.

Where, if not, is the dark? What is? What from?

The smooth style, concise, lapidary, epigraphic, and full accuracy of Goethe, arrives, in this
second part, to last limit of sharpness, elegance bare of litter and unnecessary adornments, and sobriety
meaningful and purposeful.

How, then, with such style that the vague, uncertain, indecisive, which nobody understands, or
perhaps the poet who wrote it? This can not be.

The alleged non-intelligence of the second part can only be explained by two ways. And both, not
Faust, but the work clearer and more flat will become unintelligible. El Quijote for instance.

Although we do not believe in the transcendental epic, comprehensive and all-teachers, we believe
that the poet sings sometimes what is not said, goes beyond the point reached by the scientific
man reflection and study, and predicts and foretells, and rises to unexplored areas, where human
knowledge not arrived yet, but if everything is in the rhythm or pure poetry, it is useless translate
it into prose.

It is not useless, it is impossible. In prose is unspeakable. It would be so foolish claim like
trying to explain the effect of the best symphony, and still produce the same, making a speech about
the symphony. But if the important thing is the rhythm, and dialectically revealed in the phrase,
everybody will understand, without translation or comment. At that understand what may decírsele
what the gentleman from La Mancha or the parish priest once said
to barber complained about not understanding a poet: "Nor is it necessary
that you understand, Senor rapist.

"

Even poetry and prose of poetic, profound truths can be enclosed under the veil of allegory
or symbol, but one of two things: either a symbol and allegory are transparent or not. If so,
everything looks clear. If not, can write thousands and thousands commented, and every commentator
imagine that the poet wanted to say this, that, beyond it, and even things that the poor poet
was not occurred in life.

Comment about have already been made of Don Quixote. Why wonder FAUSTO be made of? And if Faust
is the blame for this in unintelligible, why Don Quixote is not set as default?

There is thus unintelligibility of a work in mysterious, esoteric or hidden that aspire to find
in it. Simply the exoteric, the direct sense, has a value and a meaning. And the second part
of Faust will have. Is it intelligible, it is dark, is dark the Song
of Songs?

To an outsider there is nothing any more intelligible. The Song Solomon is an idyll, an eclogue,
a love poem, where the beloved and the beloved compliments as nice, they say a thousand tenderness,
become a thousand kindnesses, are praised and described minutely and morose delectation body the
workmanship and thanks him and her, and painted the pleasures to be achieved or already achieved
both, kissing, hugging and loving each other a lot. But if this is so clear, well understood, mystical
search made sense given the Song of Songs exegetes and theologians, and the Song of Songs will need
to comment, and even with the comment we will stay dark, and will hardly understand a word.
Why not state the same for the second part of Faust, if we may equate into something sacred
and the profane?

It is not difficult to assume either that the intelligence FAUSTO scholarship depends upon that
to understand is required.

Sufficient, in our view, a culture medium. The comment scholar is useless. All are characterized
mythical characters so well that the ignorant may gain something, Allegan a wealth of scholarship,
whether on to read Faust, acquires and browse a manual dictionary of the fable, but what you learn
in the dictionary added little understanding of the poem.

The same is true of the doctrines cosmological, geological, philosophical etc., that the referred
FAUSTO. What Goethe means what he says in full and no is necessary to turn to other books to
explain, unless you want to know who the took or why he said. In this case it is possible that
the same scholar commented that the philosophical namely, that the comment be as much as the
Faust in Don Quixote. Also in Don Quixote there are those who investigate whether this passage
was taken from the Orlando or Amadis, if such a story or sentence comes from Conon sophist or
Golden Legend.

Now, it is simply not what is supposed or discerned in Faust, but what is said and this figure
in short and brief, because we fear being labeled as neat. For more promptly and clearly,
we will mark each of the five acts in this second tragedy is divided.

ACT I. - The fate of Faust can not close in the Margarita. Fausto is still very long career.
It aims at all, and to fulfill their aspirations has many powers.

Mephistopheles has, that is, in the spirit of cunning and conduct for life, which and returned the
youth and may even give you wealth, power, fame and material pleasures. And it counts on the
summit of Mephistopheles, because the natural magic touch points higher than the magic black
or witchcraft, with science, which will reveal the secrets of the universe, and poetry and art,
which made him the ideal for beauty.

Fausto No sooner recovers from his violent emotions, thanks to a magic sleep, lulled by songs
of genius and nymphs, in a fertile and pleasant garden, the above
aspirations begin to take place on, as far as the finite nature of
Faust and the world consent.

Fausto shines in the court of the Emperor and finds that she can be whatever he pleases, through
its own merit and the devil.

This, however, not satisfied.

The ladies there is not one that will make printing and falls in love with Elena, a personification
of the perfect body beauty.

The devil has no power to give Helen. Full of trepidation speaks of Mothers, or say to yourself
copies of the ideas of the pure forms before joining the raw material and produce various beings,
which mothers whose mysteries the devil you do not understand, live in a vacuum eternal, beyond
time and space, and only through very profound and lonely contemplation, concentrated in meditation,
and throwing in horrible depths, can them a daring mood.

The company is such that the devil himself would not dare to undertake
it.

Faust, however, the rush, and from the devil is in awe, and doubt again dark breast, infinitely
deeper than hell, where he has launched.

In this journey of Faust to see Mother is the key to the poem, the core of the second part. We believe
that the devil is right, and that Goethe does not. Fausto does not return reality. Vivo and human
Faust, Dr. melancholy, rejuvenated by the magic drink, the lover of nature, as are all the lovers
of natural, real and living Margarita, remains the Mothers out there, and only turns his shadow,
the pure idea, a symbol, as an allegory transparent and clear, that more can not be.

Hence, the entire second half is poetry, under the beautiful style of the poet, lyrical and gnomic
wealth that poured in a thousand beauties of all genres who knows Share in the details, but
on the whole, the second part, or is not poetry or poetry is the opposite.

No doubt the poet, back in ancient times, inspired unconscious, with estrus divine, agitated by a furor
that comes from heaven, create characters and actions involving and symbolize very great truths.
Later comes the critical, dialectical thinker, man cool and thoughtful, and stripping of the symbol
is in the hidden truths and reverses poetry and creates science.

This, in our opinion, is the natural process.

But Goethe comes the opposite way. In the second part of Faust is a poet in reverse shows practically
what at first we said that the epic momentous and comprehensive is impossible now: it is madness
to want to do it.

For these reasons, both the cruelty astounds us that many of unintelligible
censored The second part of Faust.

The defect seems to us that is the opposite: it is understood surplus, in which everything is
symbolic, as it is a long parable of thousands of verses that none of those interesting characters we
can and because they are such characters, but allegorical figures representing religious thoughts,
moral, philosophical, physical, chemical and geological author. And frankly, a parable, an allegory
as continuous would be unbearable if not for Goethe. Seems also a
vexed and tired childish. What do these images, such mysteries, this
figurative style, to expose doctrines? Although see clearly under
the transparent veil of allegory, even look better without the veil.

Poetry
is similar to that in religion. Imagine for a moment, and God will
forgive him, that of Christ is as Hegel explains. It will thus be
very philosophical, very deep, very interesting but as soon as they
accept the explanation of Hegel, a clever dialectic will work and
what is religion not have. Hegel, however, has the right (meaning
that we Supporters of the absolute freedom of thinking); Hegel can
rationally explain all dogmas, and reduce them to philosophy.

The
absurdity would be then undertaken the same walk in reverse, agarrásemos
the Idea, the Self, the Not-Self, the Self, the Not-Being, Get-to-Be,
the itching, Will, Life Death, the One and All, and turning them into
people, fraguásemos religion of the future and with the philosophies
of Hegel, and with those of Hartmann, and with those of any other.
Who 'd like to believe in religion? What apostles, which confessors,
what would martyrs? And this is not to deny that science, doctrine,
claim, stripped of the useless symbol, superimposed and anachronistic,
it can not have them.

We agree that in religion, for reasons long
to expose here, highlights the absurdity of most take the opposite
these ways, we agree that poetry fits into the allegorical, and be
imaginative, as clever game, and even as a graphic medium that make
the printing truths mood, and even as a mnemonic device to last more
persistently and distinction in memory. In the midst of his good fortune he never ceased lamenting her, and grieved that he could
hear no tidings of her, especially in a country where she must necessarily have come on her
way to his father's court after their separation. He would have suspected something had the
Princess Badoura still gone by the name of Camaralzaman, but on her accession to the throne
she changed it, and took that of Armanos, in honour of the old king her father-in-law. She
was now known only by the name of the young King Armanos. There were very few courtiers who
knew that she had ever been called Camaralzaman, which name she assumed when she arrived at
the court of the Isle of Ebony, nor had Camaralzaman so much acquaintance with any of them
yet as to learn more of her history.

The princess fearing he might do so in time, and desiring that he should owe the discovery
to herself only, resolved to put an end to her own torment and his; for she had observed that
as often as she discoursed with him about the affairs of his office, he fetched such deep sighs
as could be addressed to nobody but her. She herself also lived under such constraint that
she could endure it no longer.

The Princess Badoura had no sooner made this decision with the Princess Haiatalnefous, than
she took Prince Camaralzaman aside, saying, 'I must talk with you about an affair, Camaralzaman,
which requires much consideration, and on which I want your advice. Come hither in the evening,
and leave word at home that you will not return; I will take care to provide you a bed.'

Camaralzaman came punctually to the palace at the hour appointed by the princess; she took
him with her into the inner apartment, and having told the chief chamberlain, who was preparing
to follow her, that she had no occasion for his service, and that he should only keep the door
shut, she took him into a different apartment.

When the prince and princess entered the chamber she shut the door, and, taking the talisman
out of a little box, gave it to Camaralzaman, saying, 'It is not long since an astrologer presented
me with this talisman; you being skilful in all things, may perhaps tell me its use.'

Camaralzaman took the talisman, and drew near a lamp to look at it. As soon as he recollected
it, with an astonishment which gave the princess great pleasure, 'Sire,' said he to the princess,
'your majesty asked me what this talisman is good for. Alas! it is only good to kill me with
grief and despair, if I do not quickly find the most charming and lovely princess in the world
to whom it belonged, whose loss it occasioned by a strange adventure, the very recital of which
will move your majesty to pity such an unfortunate husband and lover, if you would have patience
to hear it.'

'You shall tell me that another time,' replied the princess; 'I am very glad to tell you I
know something of it already; stay here a little, and I will return to you in a moment.'

At these words she went into her dressing-room, put off her royal turban, and in a few minutes
dressed herself like a woman; and having the girdle round her which she wore on the day of
their separation, she entered the chamber.

Prince Camaralzaman immediately knew his dear princess, ran to her, and tenderly embraced her,
crying out, 'How much I am obliged to the king, who has so agreeably surprised me!'

'Do not expect to see the king any more,' replied the princess, embracing him in her turn,
with tears in her eyes; 'you see him in me: sit down, and I will explain this enigma to you.'

They sat down, and the princess told the prince the resolution she came to, in the field where
they encamped the last time they were together, as soon as she perceived that she waited for
him to no purpose; how she went through with it till she arrived at the Isle of Ebony, where
she had been obliged to marry the Princess Haiatalnefous, and accept the crown which King Armanos
offered her as a condition of the marriage: how the princess, whose merit she highly extolled,
had kept the secret, and how she found the talisman in the pots of olives mingled with the
gold dust, and how the finding it was the cause of her sending for him to the city of the idolaters.

The Princess Badoura and Prince Camaralzaman rose next morning as soon as it was light, but
the princess would no more put on her royal robes as king; she dressed herself in the dress
of a woman, and then sent the chief chamberlain to King Armanos, her father-in- law to desire
he would be so good as to come to her apartment.

When the king entered the chamber, he was amazed to see there a lady who was unknown to him,
and the high treasurer with her, who was not permitted to come within the inner palace. He
sat down and asked where the king was.

The princess answered, 'Yesterday I was king, sir, and to-day I am the Princess of China, wife
of the true Prince Camaralzaman, the true son of King Schahzaman. If your majesty will have
the patience to hear both our stories, I hope you will not condemn me for putting an innocent
deceit upon you.' The king bade her go on, and heard her discourse from the beginning to the
end with astonishment. The princess on finishing it said to him, 'Sir, in our religion men
may have several wives; if your majesty will consent to give your daughter the Princess Haiatalnefous
in marriage to Prince Camaralzaman, I will with all my heart yield up to her the rank and quality
of queen, which of right belongs to her, and content myself with the second place. If this
precedence was not her due, I would, however, give it her, after she has kept my secret so
generously.'

King Armanos listened to the princess with astonishment, and when she had done, turned to Prince
Camaralzaman, saying, 'Son, since the Princess Badoura your wife, whom I have all along thought
to be my son-in-law, through a deceit of which I cannot complain, assures me that she is willing,
I have nothing more to do but to ask you if you are willing to marry my daughter and accept
the crown, which the Princess Badoura would deservedly wear as long as she lived, if she did
not quit it out of love to you.'

'Sir,' replied Prince Camaralzaman, 'though I desire nothing so earnestly as to see the king
my father, yet the obligation I am under to your majesty and the Princess Haiatalnefous are
so weighty, I can refuse her nothing.' Camaralzaman was proclaimed king, and married the same
day with all possible demonstrations of joy.

Not long afterwards they all resumed the long interrupted journey to the Isles of the Children
of Khaledan, where they were fortunate enough to find the old King Schahzaman still alive and
overjoyed to see his son once more; and after several months' rejoicing, King Camaralzaman
and the two queens returned to the Island of Ebony, where they lived in great happiness for
the remainder of their lives.

               THE STORY OF ZOBEIDE TOLD BY HERSELF

The following story is one of the strangest that ever was heard. Two black dogs long dwelt
with me in my house, and were very affectionately disposed towards me. These two black dogs
and myself were sisters, and I shall acquaint you by what strange accident they came to be
metamorphosed. After our father's death, the estate that he left was equally divided among
us. My two sisters and myself stayed with our mother, who was still alive, and when she died
she left each of us a thousand sequins. As soon as we received our portions, the two elder
(for I am the youngest), being married, followed their husbands and left me alone. Some time
after, my eldest sister's husband sold all that he had, and with that money and my sister's
portion they both went into Africa, where her husband, by riotous living, spent all; and finding
himself reduced to poverty, he found a pretext for divorcing my sister, and sent her away.

She returned to this city, and, having suffered incredible hardships by the way, came to me
in so lamentable a condition that it would have moved the hardest heart to compassion. I received
her with all the tenderness she could expect, and on my inquiring into the cause of her sad
condition, she told me with tears how inhumanly her husband had dealt with her. I was so much
concerned at her misfortune that it drew tears from my eyes: I clothed her with my own apparel,
and spoke to her thus: 'Sister, you are the elder, and I esteem you as my mother: during your
absence, God has blessed the portion that fell to my share, and the employment I follow of
feeding and bringing up silk-worms. Assure yourself that there is nothing I have but is at
your service, and as much at your disposal as my own.'

We lived very comfortably together for some months; and one day as we were discoursing together
about our third sister, and wondering we heard no news of her, she came home in as bad a condition
as the elder; her husband had treated her after the same manner: and I received her likewise
with the same affection as I had done the other.

Some time after, my two sisters, on the ground that they would not be an expense to me, told
me they intended to marry again. I answered them, that if their putting me to expense was all
the reason they might lay those thoughts aside, and be very welcome to stay with me; for what
I had would be sufficient to maintain us all three in a manner suitable to our condition. 'But,'
said I, 'I rather believe you have a mind to marry again. If you do, I am sure it will very
much surprise me: after the experience you have had of the small satisfaction there is in marriage,
is it possible you dare venture a second time? You know how rare it is to meet with a husband
that is a really honest man. Believe what I say, and let us live together as comfortably as
we can.' All my persuasion was in vain; they were resolved to marry, and so they did. But after
some months were past they came back again, and begged my pardon a thousand times for not following
my advice. 'You are our youngest sister,' said they, 'and much wiser than we; but if you will
vouchsafe to receive us once more into your house and account us your slaves, we shall never
commit such a fault again.' My answer was, 'Dear sisters, I have not altered my mind with respect
to you since we last parted from one another; come again and take part of what I have.' Upon
this I embraced them again, and we lived together as we did formerly.

We continued thus a whole year in perfect love and tranquillity; and seeing that God had increased
my small stock, I projected a voyage by sea, to hazard somewhat by trade. To this end I went
with my two sisters to Balsora, where I bought a ship ready fitted for sea, and laded her with
such merchandise as I brought from Bagdad. We set sail with a fair wind, and soon cleared the
Persian gulf; and when we got into the ocean we steered our course to the Indies, and on the
twentieth day saw land. It was a very high mountain, at the foot of which we saw a great town,
and having a fresh wind we soon reached the harbour, where we cast anchor.

I had not patience to stay till my sisters were ready to go with me, but went ashore in the
boat by myself; and, making directly for the gate of the town, I saw there a great number of
men on guard, some sitting and others standing, with sticks in their hands; and they had all
such dreadful countenances that it frightened me; but perceiving they had no motion, not so
much as with their eyes, I took courage, and went nearer, and then found they were all turned
into stone. I entered the town and passed through the several streets, wherein men stood everywhere
in various attitudes, but all motionless and petrified. On that side where the merchants lived
I found most of the shops shut, and in such as were open I likewise found the people petrified.
I looked up to the chimneys, but saw no smoke; which made me conjecture that the inhabitants
both within and without were all turned into stone.

Being come into a vast square in the heart of the city, I perceived a great gate covered with
plates of gold, the two doors of which stood open, and a curtain of silk stuff seemed to be
drawn before it; I also saw a lamp hanging over the gate. After I had well considered, I made
no doubt but that it was the palace of the prince who reigned over that country; and being
very much astonished that I had not met with one living creature, I went thither in hopes to
find some one. I entered the gate, and was still more surprised when I saw none but the guards
in the porches, all petrified, some standing, some sitting, and some lying.

I crossed over a large court where I saw a stately building just before me, the windows of
which were enclosed with gates of massive gold: I supposed it to be the queen's apartment,
and went into a large hall, where there stood several black chamberlains turned into stone.
I went from thence into a room richly hung and furnished, where I perceived a lady. I knew
it to be the queen by the crown of gold that hung over her head, and a necklace of pearls about
her neck, each of them as big as a nut; I went up close to her to view it, and never beheld
a finer sight.

I stood some time and admired the riches and magnificence of the room; but above all, the footcloth,
the cushions and the sofas, which were all lined with Indian stuff or gold, with pictures of
men and beasts in silver admirably executed.

I went out of the chamber where the petrified queen was, and passed through several other apartments
richly furnished, and at last came into a vast room, where was a throne of massive gold, raised
several steps above the floor and enriched with large emeralds, and a bed upon the throne of
rich stuff embroidered with pearls. What surprised me more than all the rest was a sparkling
light which came from above the bed. Being curious to know from whence it came, I mounted the
steps, and lifting up my head, I saw a diamond, as big as the egg of an ostrich, lying upon
a low stool; it was so pure that I could not find the least blemish in it, and it sparkled
so brightly that I could not endure the lustre of it when I saw it by daylight. 

Cautísimo to the end, Mr. Eleazar never wrote a letter of his own hand, limited to sign what he dictated,
not without careful to always read the manuscript before signing that we presented.

In trade, Mr. Eleazar was considered a privateer. And I got attacked by enemy but when not finding
opponents who attack, or when he wanted to ensure success a dangerous operation, had no kind of
inconvenience to consummate acts of real piracy, without losing the venerable and majestic appearance
of his countenance, and even crying and covering their hawks with words of humility that seemed to
come from the bottom of his soul.

That happened not infrequently in times of stock market turmoil, that the corridor behind started
to sell their titles, came out another door a second in order to make up; and in the afternoon,
when either returned to account for its operations, Mr. Eleazar took
the floor and spoke in the language and accent of a holy man and convinced:

-
So, Don Thomas, so, as they have wanted, they are well spent.

Since you know, sir, I do not like to hurt anyone! But what can a man honest in these times
of bad faith? It is necessary to protect us! You see, sir, I have Indeed many charities in
this country, when he was how to make them, there is one of those I want to ruin, I will not
be all that is. I have always been the same them have lost two fortunes help! Two fortunes,
sir, and I only need am compelled to defend myself.

And when Don Eleazar neared the end of his speech, he opened his snuff
box, inviting the caller and then drew from his deep pouches a long
scarf of India which blew his nose and covered his face, to more expressive
in their lamentations.

In the internal order of the desktop, Don Eleazar was of a severity
bordering on cruelty never leave a respite, a break for their dependents.

It worked there day and night without rest, under the immediate direction of Don Anselmo, the
alter ego of Don Eleazar; a Spanish boy, forty years, shrewd, alert and cunning for business
as a capeador to circumvent the bull, and without which rarely Don Eleazar held business conferences
delicate and important.

Don Eleazar never appeared in theaters, dances and outings.

Came the morning of the fifth in his classic coupe gateados pulled by two horses, gentle and
calm returning to lead afternoon or evening, if the demands of work demanded his presence on the desktop
after eating. But if Mr. Eleazar did not walk in society, his name and influence were felt in a thousand
different ways: in the elections was always part in the two sides without giving his name,
and was attending effectively to win both games with heavy amounts money.

He knew well that those who can negotiate on policy, this good mother
gives back the loan with principal and compound interest, and as for
him as they were the nationalist and autonomist the Buenos Aires and
the provinces, the federal and unitary, with all promiscuous, because
in the vineyard of the Lord in worth for him to be Jewish and Christian.



'My dear lady,' said the young man, 'have patience for a moment.' At these words he shut the
Koran, put it into a rich case, and laid it in the niche. I took that opportunity of observing
him, and perceived so much good-nature and beauty in him that I felt strange emotion. He made
me sit down by him; and before he began his discourse I could not forbear saying to him, 'Sir,
I can scarcely have patience to wait for an account of all those wonderful things that I have
seen since the first time I came into your city; and my curiosity cannot be satisfied too soon:
therefore pray, sir, let me know by what miracle you alone are left alive among so many persons
that have died in so strange a manner.'

'Madam,' said the young man, 'you have given me to understand that you have a knowledge of
the true God by the prayer you have just now addressed to Him. I will acquaint you with the
most remarkable effect of His greatness and power. You must know that this city was the metropolis
of a mighty kingdom, over which the king, my father, did reign. He, his whole court, the inhabitants
of the city, and all his other subjects were magi, worshippers of fire, and of Nardoun, the
ancient king of the giants, who rebelled against God.

'And though I had an idolatrous father and mother, I had the good fortune in my youth to have
a governess who was a good Mussulman; I learned the Koran by heart, and understood the explanation
of it perfectly. "Dear prince," would she oftentimes say, "there is but one true God; take
heed that you do not acknowledge and adore any other." She taught me to read Arabic, and the
book she gave me to practice upon was the Koran. As soon as I was capable of understanding
it, she explained to me all the heads of this excellent book, and infused piety into my mind,
unknown to my father or anybody else. She happened to die, but not before she had instructed
me in all that was necessary to convince me of the truth of the Mussulman religion. After her
death I persisted with constancy in this belief; and I abhor the false god Nardoun, and the
adoration of fire.

'It is about three years and some months ago that a thundering voice was heard, all of a sudden,
so distinctly, through the whole city that nobody could miss hearing it. The words were these:
"Inhabitants, abandon the worship of Nardoun, and of fire, and worship the only God that shows
mercy."

'This voice was heard for three years successively, but nobody was converted: so on the last
day of the year, at four o'clock in the morning, all the inhabitants were changed in an instant
into stone, every one in the same condition and posture they happened to be then in. The king,
my father, had the same fate, for he was metamorphosed into a black stone, as he is to be seen
in this palace; and the queen, my mother, had the like destiny.

'I am the only person that did not suffer under that heavy judgment, and ever since I have
continued to serve God with more fervency than before. I am persuaded, dear lady, that He has
sent you hither for my comfort, for which I render Him infinite thanks; for I must own that
this solitary life is very unpleasant.'

'Prince,' said I, 'there is no doubt that Providence hath brought me into your port to present
you with an opportunity of withdrawing from this dismal place. The ship that I came in may
in some measure persuade you that I am in some esteem at Bagdad, where I have also left a considerable
estate; and I dare engage to promise you sanctuary there, until the mighty Commander of the
Faithful, who is vice-regent to our Prophet, whom you acknowledge, shows you the honour that
is due to your merit. This renowned prince lives at Bagdad, and as soon as he is informed of
your arrival in his capital, you will find that it is not vain to implore his assistance. It
is impossible you can stay any longer in a city where all the objects you see must renew your
grief: my vessel is at your service, where you may absolutely command as you think fit.' He
accepted the offer, and we discoursed the remaining part of the night about our sailing.

As soon as it was day we left the palace, and came aboard my ship, where we found my sisters,
the captain, and the slaves, all very much troubled at my absence. After I had presented my
sisters to the prince, I told them what had hindered my return to the vessel the day before,
how I had met with the young prince, his story, and the cause of the desolation of so fine a city.

The seamen were taken up several days in unlading the merchandise I had brought with me, and
embarking instead all the precious things in the palace, jewels, gold and money. We left the
furniture and goods, which consisted of an infinite quantity of plate, etc., because our vessel
could not carry it, for it would have required several vessels more to carry all the riches
to Bagdad that we might have chosen to take with us.

After we had laden the vessel with what we thought fit, we took such provisions and water aboard
as were necessary for our voyage (for we had still a great deal of those provisions left that
we had taken in at Balsora): at last we set sail with a wind as favourable as we could wish.

The young prince, my sisters and myself enjoyed ourselves for some time very agreeably; but
alas! this good understanding did not last long, for my sisters grew jealous of the friendship
between the prince and me, and maliciously asked me one day what we should do with him when
we came to Bagdad. I perceived immediately why they put this question to me; therefore, resolving
to put it off with a jest, I answered them, 'I will take him for my husband'; and upon that,
turning myself to the prince, 'Sir,' said I, 'I humbly beg of you to give your consent; for
as soon as we come to Bagdad I design to do you all the service that is in my power and to
resign myself wholly to your commands.'

The prince answered, 'I know not, madam, whether you be in jest or no; but for my own part
I seriously declare, before these ladies your sisters, that from this moment I heartily accept
your offer, as my lady and mistress. Nor will I pretend to have any power over your actions.'
At these words my sisters changed colour, and I could perceive afterwards that they did not
love me as formerly.

We had come into the Persian Gulf, not far from Balsora, where I hoped, considering the fair
wind, we might arrive the day following; but in the night, when I was asleep, my sisters watched
their time and threw me overboard. They did the same to the prince, who was drowned. I swam
for some minutes in the water; but by good fortune, or rather miracle, I soon felt ground.
I went towards a black place, that, so far as I could discern in the dark, seemed to be land,
and actually was a flat on the coast. When day came, I found it to be a desert island, lying
about twenty miles from Balsora. I soon dried my clothes in the sun; and as I walked along
I found several sorts of fruit, and likewise fresh water, which gave me some hope of preserving
my life.

I laid myself down in the shade and soon after I saw a winged serpent, very large and long,
coming towards me, wriggling to the right and to the left, and hanging out his tongue, which
made me think he was ill. I arose, and saw a larger serpent following him, holding him by the
tail, and endeavouring to devour him. I had compassion on him, and instead of flying away,
I had the boldness and courage to take up a stone that by chance lay by me, and threw it with
all my strength at the great serpent, whom I hit on the head, and killed him. The other, finding
himself at liberty, took to his wings and flew away. I looked a long while after him in the
air, as an extraordinary thing; but he flew out of sight, and I lay down again in another place
in the shade, and fell asleep.

When I awoke, judge how surprised I was to see by me a black woman, of lively and agreeable
looks, who held, tied together in her hand, two dogs of the same colour. I sat up and asked
her who she was. 'I am,' said she, 'the serpent whom you delivered not long since from my mortal
enemy. I knew not how to acknowledge the great kindness you did me, but by doing what I have
done. I knew the treachery of your sisters, and, to revenge you on them, as soon as I was set
at liberty by your generous assistance I called several of my companions together, fairies
like myself. We have carried into your storehouses at Bagdad all your lading that was in your
vessel, and afterwards sunk it.

'These two black dogs are your sisters, whom I have transformed into this shape. But this punishment
is not sufficient; for I will have you treat them after such a manner as I shall direct.'

At those words the fairy took me fast under one of her arms, and the two dogs in the other,
and carried me to my house in Bagdad, where I found in my storehouses all the riches which
were laden on board my vessel. Before she left me she delivered the two dogs, and told me,
'If you will not be changed into a dog as they are, I order you to give each of your sisters
every night a hundred lashes with a rod, for the punishment of the crime they have committed
against your person and the young prince whom they drowned.' I was forced to promise that I
would obey her order. For many months I whipped them every night, though with regret. I gave
evidence by my tears with how much sorrow and reluctance I must perform this cruel duty.

Now the fairy had left with me a bundle of hair, saying withal that her presence would one
day be of use to me; and then, if I only burnt two tufts of this hair, she would be with me
in a moment, though she were beyond Mount Caucasus.

Desirous at length to see the fairy and beg her to restore the two black dogs, my sisters,
to their proper shape, I caused fire one day to be brought in, and threw the whole bundle of
hair into it. The house began to shake at that very instant, and the fairy appeared in the
form of a lady very richly dressed.

I besought her, with every form of entreaty I could employ, to restore my sisters to their
natural shape, and to release me from the cruel duty that I had always unwillingly performed.

The fairy at length consented, and desired a bowl of water to be brought; she pronounced over
it some words which I did not understand, and then sprinkled the water upon the dogs. They
immediately became two ladies of surprising beauty, and I recognised in them the sisters to
whose human form I had so long been a stranger. They soon after married the sons of kings,
and lived happily for the rest of their lives.

                   THE STORY OF THE KING'S SON.

I was scarcely past my infancy when the king my father perceived that I was endowed with a
great deal of sense, and spared nothing in improving it; he employed all the men in his dominions
that excelled in science and art to be constantly about me. No sooner was I able to read and
write than I learned the Koran from the beginning to the end by heart; that admirable book
which contains the foundation, the precepts, and the rules of our religion; and that I might
be thoroughly instructed in it, I read the works of the most approved authors, by whose commentaries
it had been explained. I added to this study that of all the traditions collected from the
mouth of our Prophet by the great men that were contemporary with him. I was not satisfied
with the knowledge of all that had any relation to our religion, but made also a particular
search into our histories. I made myself perfect in polite learning, in the works of poets,
and in versification. I applied myself to geography, chronology, and to speak our Arabic tongue
in its purity. But one thing which I was fond of and succeeded in to a special degree was to
form the characters of our written language, wherein I surpassed all the writing masters of
our kingdom that had acquired the greatest reputation.

Fame did me more honour than I deserved, for she not only spread the renown of my talents through
all the dominions of the king my father, but carried it as far as the Indian court, whose potent
monarch, desirous to see me, sent an ambassador with rich presents to demand me of my father,
who was extremely glad of this embassy for several reasons; he was persuaded that nothing could
be more commendable in a prince of my age than to travel and visit foreign courts, and he was
very glad to gain the friendship of the Indian sultan. I departed with the ambassador, but
with no great retinue, because of the length and difficulty of the journey. 

But Don Eleazar has found his match, while their agents, divided into two gangs operating in
the opposite direction, preparing his coup, he did not expect that in this land of paper money,
a new issue is small matter, and the tightrope with he had imprisoned his debtor, become loose,
the new issue has been done and lo that the decline has taken place more frightening.

In this situation, Mr. Eleazar has decided not to reorganize its operations. He has reason to
certain point, demands fair play, as the British fighters. In the house of the stock, everything
is allowed as in war, playing up publicly and covertly to fall; launch a cat, give notice of
sensation, ensuring that the war with Chile is a fact that our squad is in a dreadful state, that
our army will be defeated if a battle; in short, spread terror, regardless of any kind by patriotism,
but double play with guns loaded, no. That does not, it never! ... Don Eleazar in these matters
is most correct, and especially when rather than he who aims happens that is against him against
whom become the mouths of cannons. But worst of all, my friend, is not it. The worst thing is
that Don Eleazar, taking advantage of his misfortune, because it is capable of fully exploiting
and Take advantage of all, has decided not to pay anyone. A besieging him from starvation,
but he will cuts off water and bread, and with the same rope to hang him, he attempts to hang
her adversaries.

- Means that I am on the street - told the hear to end their relationship.

- Oh, no! Do you think man Don Eleazar is fired for such petty things? ... No. Your bankruptcy
is a bankruptcy that does not spoil or takes it to court, everything is solved for him in not
paying the debts are not debts Exchange, and in the case of Mr. Eleazar has not spent more or
less what happens in a bad home game when the lights go out, every player defend the fist that
can, and I assure you that your employer will know hold their own.

No panic: not lose the job.

- It alarmed me, Don Benito, by so little - I replied laughing heartily
.-- I who I resolve not to return to the desk of Don Eleazar!

I do not add up neither man nor employment.

- You do well, my friend, that honors him.

- No, Don Benito, and I honor or dishonor me, do not do a quixotic,
and would be entitled to it.

Don Eleazar has been good to me, I religiously paid my salary and has had the good sense not
to impose their business.

- What are you doing?

- Do not know, but tomorrow I'll know. Since then have you in my room: we must part!

- Separate Us?

Never! - I answered the old man craning his noble head and accompanying
his words with a strong signal that denoted a deep feeling that had
caused my resolution .-- Separate Us?

Never! - I repeat - look, July ... Look, my son - said, - let me tute you, my gray hairs I am entitled
to do so, is it true?

And as a sign I did so, continued shaky

- I have observed to date the resolution of your uncle, but I must confess that I have suffered
the see you at Don Eleazar. Such use does not love you, and I do not understand is how Ramon
has placed you there ...

- My aunt, you know ...

- Yes, that governs like a spin, but that is no reason for you to neglect. Look - I said, - today
I'll take care of you. What the hell! I am old, but I have a young soul yet: I'll be your
father and your brother at the same time. I have a bad reputation in the world: women misia
Medea hate me because I do not believe in political gods, and men like Don Eleazar also I can
go, because I can not do business that they do. We will live together, from when then hear
in my room a woman's voice ... What you want! ... I am a man ... súfreme these aberrations.
Women drive me crazy, so I had the good sense not to go crazy for one: I've gone mad for all
and I'm not married with any, I hope not into temptation to do so
in the years that I have.

I'm smiling, carefree and frank live without mysteries I take life as it is. Back in my youth
I read a lot, but I was reading one advantage of all that I have
done: there is next to the bedside: Rabelais.

When you're my age and you run the world, you'll see he was right: it is the only book help them
to die, so I despise the Jesuits.

I have no children, or rather, not I know if I have, because if they knew for sure, do not deny
a father, but doubt, you well know that it is better to abstain,
for it to take as their own works others, is a minor.

And I fled the mostly ridiculous.

I have no friends of my age: my friends are young people of yours,
I live with them, fall in love with them and scandalized this room
also with them in Buenos Aires there are many beautiful women and
so stupid that the leads.

And at the end, Don Benito wrung me in his arms and against his chest, and I do not could contain
the tears that sprang to my eyes.

The next day I showed up at the Don Eleazar, tomorrow.

The courtyard was crowded they whispered and gesticulated with animation:
Desktop doors closed.

I went and hit the glass: to open up Don Anselmo, who recognized
me, two or three people patio door fell upon the desk with the intention
of entering.

- Excuse me, can not you go ...-- Anselmo said, and
gave almost the door in his face.

And I could see that one of them raised his fist in a threatening manner.

In two words don Anselmo realized my decision to leave the house.

- Well, well, have you also been bitten by the tarantula?

- I do
not bitten any tarantula, nor I, nor I have nothing to do with those
who protest outside or against those who shut themselves in, I come
to thank Don Eleazar the honor has already made me tell my resolution.

Can I do you advertise?

- If you can not receive you ...-- Anselmo said, shaking his head.

- See if you can ... I want to fulfill what I consider a must.

Don Anselmo went on to the next room, which was that of Don Eleazar, and after a while back.

-
Don Eleazar says that can happen - he said.

I went resolutely. I will never forget the picture presented to my sight. Almost in the middle
of the room, next to a very high desk, where Mr. Anselmo used to written under the dictation
of Mr. Eleazar, skeleton sitting on a chair, was it, breakfasting in front of a table little
bigger than the dish I ate. A servant served non-stop Galician dish after dish, and Don Eleazar
ate to the severity of a bear who devours his ration.

In a corner of the room, standing, three men witnessed this collation morning in complete silence.

-
Between you, Don Julio, "We also leave you in the days of trial? ...

I explained the reasons for my resignation, trying to convince him that she was completely foreign trade
to the recent disaster, but Don Eleazar, moved, despite the appetite devouring their meats, it was
contrived to lament with words that broke their heart.

- Well, young man, since you solved it, Let us part, but you will do me some justice day ... You
see the situation that I am reduced! I lost everything! From now live the love of my family,
yes, sir, charity of the family ... Here you have me prisoner, I caught in this country who
have lavished benefits!

Do not you see, sir, that even authority is plotting against me! You see, sir, all those men
who come the glass and threatening me, are completely unknown to me! I have never had dealings
with them! I do not know! And follow me, sir, follow me to death! You see a I'm small! A not to
eat these snacks at home, they are even able to poison!

And if not for my faithful John (exclaimed looking expressively Galician that served lunch),
if not for him, who knows what would have happened to me!

But I will reward you someday ... you know that everything I lost,
I have nothing that therefore I can not fulfill my commitments!

Say, John, at all, it is possible than you might think you are! ... Say you, Young, secure,
you know my business, all are clear, as public as legitimate!

... You know, gentlemen ... I have been a victim of people (adding faced with Don Anselmo answered
with an affirmative sign) without law and principles! ... You know, Don Anselmo, you know all
my business, she knows my house!

... I can not meet, and do not feel much for me, but so wonderful person who I have to injure, against
all my feelings!

... You see, you see how threatening these men! It I believe I stayed
with some of them!

... Thanks, John, thank you, my son, pour me tea, I have no appetite! ... Try it yourself first,
see if you have bad taste!

... Ah, gentlemen, I have a conscience! ...

And while Don Eleazar complained, all I heard in silence, as appalled
by the horrible disaster of that providential man who swallowed like
a shark, in the midst of catastrophe of his fortune.

FUEM necessary to cut a blow that eternal farewell elegy and forever
from that den that had been eight months.

What is wrong with the world!

Upon leaving the creditors of the courtyard that the foaming mouth, said Don Eleazar had made
five hundred thousand dollars of profit and that they lived on the
street.

Who could believe it?

XI

Strictly wearing ties in white, with a fraction of Poole and a pair
of pumps by Thomas, Don Benito penetrated one night in my room, elegant
young as a boy of twenty years.

I dressed slowly, that night I made my debut at the club. The club! ... It is not necessary say
it is the Progress Club of which I speak, and that dance is a dance perspective July: the
great attraction of the season in Buenos Aires.

- Are you still
in that state told me I ?...-- complicated preparations for his shirt
- is one almost!

...

- Ah! What do you think? Is serious prepare a shirt ... I remember you opening.

- Ca! an elegant man is not made, born ... Look at me - I said - Picture in the middle of room.

-
Well, be patient, I'm not you ... I'm not smart ...

- Yes, but you Blanquita block, right?

... And I guess you tend to come on as a woo, look who is a woman so loose and light as the
mother ... and I want to know.

- Do not kid with Whitey, and I know that White block and I have a girlfriend ...

- Okay, marry it, but it falls to ... Do not be silly ...

- What
if my advice?

- Do not!

The mother loves you and the mother is the protector of that child.

- Oh! Fernanda known me lad was twenty years old when I was ten or twelve but the daughter ...

- The daughter is like the mother, both are women of courage and breakdown,
pretty as a dove and dangerous as two wolves.

- Tonight will be radiant,
are the queens of the dance, Mr. Montifiori will shine his legation
vacancy.

- Montifiori!

    ... What kind of man is Montifiori?

...

- I'll tell you later ... go, tie the tie soon.

- Will right? Very big the bow, right? ...

- No, it is well, women do not look at it, the neck of men are indifferent.

Well, put on your coat, excellent! You're a lord. If I had your body and your years and you
my experience! ...

- Always the old proverb, Don Benito! ... Ah! nothing is complete in the world.

I wandered through my room, I took my gloves, put the half-light gas
and left me and my old partner.

It was cold all the devils, but Coupe Don Benito was at the door; lock ourselves into it and
started to slide on the rails of the tramway to everyday use. In five minutes we were on the
block from Club del Progreso, we had to wait a few minutes more so that you come to our carriage
approaching the turn, and finally got off at the door among a group
of men and women coming up the stairs softly upholstered hastily and
adorned with flowers and green wreaths.

Who does not know the Club for a night of dancing? The entrance is certainly no input Elysee Palace
and the ladder is not a marvel of architecture.

However, for the old Buenos Aires who has never left Buenos Aires, or the young provincial who
just arrived from the province, the Club is or was at one time, something like a dream mansion whose
chronicle is full of prestigious romances and which is not as penetrating
to all mortals.

Don Benito knew the house from its foundation and enjoyed it a unique influence. Al come, young
and old greeted him affectionately as an old friend.

The good old, putting his left arm back, took me to the glass booth
where we took the overcoats and we consulted a moment the figure on
the mirrors.

At that time the orchestra played the last part of the gangs of Carmen ...

Toreador, en garde toreador ...

and Bizet's music is saturated, so to speak, in the very blood of Merimee, distributed the
body of the women who made the paintings, the warm tones that the young master been rhyme that
strange love poem commoners and low revenge.

The lounge, hybrid, where the refined taste of a clubman race would have much to scratch, disappear
before the compact mass of men and women who filled.

My old friend gave me his arm and together we take our place at the Buenos Aires bouquet that way
every year in July with the accuracy with which they celebrated an anniversary.

It is a dance club where Progress can be studied in stages thirty years of Buenos Aires social
life: there have made their first steps by today's grandparents.

The gilded youth of the center founded 52 years of good tone, mainly Creole, which has not
nor ever had the distinction aristocratic English club or one of the chic clubs Paris. However,
being of the Club del Progreso, even back in 70, was chic, as was be corny Club del Plata,
with forgiveness after their partners.

The entrance was something hard, did not enter either: he had to be the best whipped cream
social and political bourgeoisie to tread the soft carpets of the
great room or sit play a game of whist in the classic games of the
portraits is at the forefront of the street Victoria.

In this last room, long and cold as a vestibule, which has been papered it a hundred times less than
green or light blue and has spent fifty different items casings what's Iturriaga, born a generation
which are being very few representatives.

There has bitten the urban gossip revelers players, husbands skulls a dissolute and dissipated
youth, and every bite of indignant mom has made havoc of smallpox
in the moral portrait of the victims.

The slander of the large village is like slander of the Barber of Seville: the passing of Hurricane
VENTICELL and woe to him who is involved in the blast!

The Progress Club has been the pepinera of many public men who have studied in their Banquet constitutional
law, literature easy to learn without books, burn the midnight lamp on a chess table, and I do
not know why, it strikes me that some of the portraits May the men
who witness this group of thinkers, makes a face every time a chicken
accompanied by a discourse on freedom of suffrage with a blow that
sits on the checkerboard a queen check by the mob of survivors pawns!

Missing father's portrait there Castañeda! And above all, lack the spirit! Also twenty thirty
years, to do the same!

Until recently, the library was not very heavy so to speak.

Many memory, much Register Official on condition of not being ever when asked, and at the table reading
Buenos Aires all day, empty and sterile as sheets of a nun, wearing
article editorial front, long lead track, in order to avail myself
of a biblical figure, fatigue horses of the imagination.

At the table reading the Illustrated London and New Revue (Would be almost useless to add des
Deux Mondes, if not to talk in the club), the Revue in which M. of Mazade Article bourgeois occurs at
a time and Lanfrey Forcade signed and some French newspapers almost
always serve as decoration, as these branches dry rot in forgotten
rooms for servants.

Despite this, anyone would think it reads ... None of that!

There he speaks: in the group of kids happy and spiritual, which falls at 12 pm, repeating
the last note of Tamagno, not missing a copy of dense bourgeois gargantuan,
gourmet night owl, fattened and enriched by the free womb of his cows
that right there made to serve a sausage per night, while the deep
disdain Gross happy, sloppy dress, stripped to the ill-content, look
what surrounds you with a satisfied apathy, putting his hand to blackish
hair and dander that dredging inert mollera with the sharp nail of
the index.

Not lacking either the village idiot, Magin decomposed, the candidate of crooks, victim village
jokes, crazy ideas about philanthropy, gasping with admiration and
blinking with one eye palsy suffering from intermittent, while the
pupil of another comes out as the pit of a peach Prisco.

Neither Tenorio suburb that does not change, that is seen today as yesterday, with beads altar
and fixed-price items, healthy, tame, inoffensive, good and forgotten
mortified by those who still believe that it is fashionable to censure
or ridicule of the innocent.

And between this company and colorless Hybrid Memory of a minister, my friend Don Benito, purge
and noble whose honesty is confounded by the contemporary positivism
sleep a dreamer, he would suddenly explode with noble sarcasm, probably
feeling how sterile have been the misfortunes of the past and how
fate has dealt unfairly favors its in the present.

But the club is the club that night, violins, laughing under the bowstrings,
conveyed the joy and excitement of music unique to every face.

Standing in front of the door that leads to the grand staircase from
the dining room, I followed the flight coiled couples impelled by
the hot breath of a waltz by Metra. I do not know why these fascinating
waltzes, compliments and undulating phrases that seem drawn into the
ether magic baton by the teacher, gave me a deep melancholy, bringing
me to remember Hugo verses that provides, through the windows fogged
by the cold of the night, the body of his beloved bound by the arm
of an opponent happy.

But several show! 

Much ideal and attractive
woman under the loving story of these modern fabrics, accomplices
meat and contour this materialistic century woven with bird wings
or petals exotic flowers! How disgusting to be grotesque ugliness
of painful stunting, jumping graceless, marking shrill note of ridicule!

What
a contrast!

How many foreign faces, necks hanged for outdated, wearing
ties satin dove, Byzantine enfracada with trousers in the form of
pipe and boorish Brazilian booty!

How old cock free picks, struggling
against time in vain, with weak arms the unguents! How to be tasteless,
gasping and withering satisfied with your treatment unbearable so
many beautiful and reckless woman seeking without finding your ideal!

Mom
much flattened at the people passing, serving on the sofas Cairn Lamp
cream!

How tolerant husband who gives his woman hawks claw and is
in the buffet with the practicality of a believer!

How old fool,
dying from head to toe, turned on a page, who reeks of mint from further
and install their claims intolerable to any beautiful woman, so that
will curdle the tasty world renowned lucky! How happy boy and philosopher,
chickens the village, who know the village and taking the game with
the good humor of the disbelievers!

The dance was at its height,
when I heard about a whisper. Two women in the big world entered the
room and couples parted to give way. Don Benito accompanied a of them,
and the other against the strictest rule of our rooms, walking alone
on the side. Don Benito came straight to where I was talking to a
group of friends.

- Julio! - Told me with the most perfect and aristocratic
manners: - Fernanda! - And turning around and pointing to the youngest,
he repeated, as any presentation: - White!

I leaned revere and look
up, I tuck my partner eighteen years has theater! ...

- I think we
are old friends - Fernanda told me .-- And as if to reassure, Added:
- But you're a man!

- Lady ... Miss !....

And a fine view of Don
Benito, almost imperceptible, I extended my arm and White hung him
with a frank and sweet abandon.

The wind that succeeded the calm was gentle and favourable, and did not change for fifty days,
but brought us safe to the port of a fine city, well peopled, and of great trade, the capital
of a powerful State, where we came to anchor.

Our vessel was speedily surrounded with an infinite number of boats full of people, who came
to congratulate their friends upon their safe arrival, or to inquire for those they had left
behind them in the country from whence they came, or out of curiosity to see a ship that came
from a far country.

Amongst the rest, some officers came on board, desiring to speak with the merchants in the
name of the sultan. The merchants appearing, one of the officers told them, 'The sultan, our
master, hath commanded us to acquaint you that he is glad of your safe arrival, and prays you
to take the trouble, every one of you, to write some lines upon this roll of paper. You must
know that we had a prime vizier who, besides having a great capacity to manage affairs, understood
writing to the highest perfection. This minister is lately dead, at which the sultan is very
much troubled; and since he can never behold his writing without admiration, he has made a
solemn vow not to give the place to any man but to him who can write as well as he did. Many
people have presented their writings, but, so far, nobody in all this empire has been judged
worthy to supply the vizier's place.'

Those merchants that believed they could write well enough to aspire to this high dignity wrote
one after another what they thought fit. After they had done, I advanced, and took the roll
out of the gentleman's hand; but all the people, especially the merchants, cried out, 'He will
tear it, or throw it into the sea,' till they saw how properly I held the roll, and made a
sign that I would write in my turn; then they were of another opinion, and their fear turned
into admiration. However, since they had never seen an ape that could write, nor could be persuaded
that I was more ingenious than other apes, they tried to snatch the roll out of my hand; but
the captain took my part once more. 'Let him alone,' said he; 'suffer him to write. If he only
scribbles the paper, I promise you that I will punish him on the spot. If, on the contrary,
he writes well, as I hope he will, because I never saw an ape so clever and ingenious and so
quick of apprehension, I do declare that I will own him as my son; I had one that had not half
the wit that he has.' Perceiving that nobody opposed my design, I took the pen and wrote six
sorts of hands used among the Arabians, and each specimen contained an extemporary verse or
poem in praise of the sultan. My writing did not only excel that of the merchants, but, I venture
to say, they had not before seen any such fair writing in that country. When I had done, the
officers took the roll, and carried it to the sultan.

The sultan took little notice of any of the other writings, but he carefully considered mine,
which was so much to his liking that he said to the officers, 'Take the finest horse in my
stable, with the richest harness, and a robe of the most sumptuous brocade to put upon that
person who wrote the six hands, and bring him hither to me.' At this command the officers could
not forbear laughing. The sultan grew angry at their boldness, and was ready to punish them,
till they told him, 'Sir, we humbly beg your majesty's pardon; these hands were not written
by a man, but by an ape.'

'What do you say?' said the sultan. 'Those admirable characters, are they not written by the
hands of a man?'

'No, sir,' replied the officers; 'we do assure your majesty that it was an ape, who wrote them
in our presence.'

The sultan was too much surprised at this not to desire a sight of me, and therefore said,
'Bring me speedily that wonderful ape.'

The officers returned to the vessel and showed the captain their order, who answered that the
sultan's commands must be obeyed. Whereupon they clothed me with that rich brocade robe and
carried me ashore, where they set me on horseback, whilst the sultan waited for me at his palace
with a great number of courtiers, whom he gathered together to do me the more honour.

The cavalcade having begun, the harbour, the streets, the public places, windows, terraces,
palaces, and houses were filled with an infinite number of people of all sorts, who flocked
from all parts of the city to see me; for the rumour was spread in a moment that the sultan
had chosen an ape to be his grand vizier; and after having served for a spectacle to the people,
who could not forbear to express their surprise by redoubling their shouts and cries, I arrived
at the palace of the sultan.

I found the prince on his throne in the midst of the grandees; I made my bow three times very
low, and at last kneeled and kissed the ground before him, and afterwards sat down in the posture
of an ape. The whole assembly admired me, and could not comprehend how it was possible that
an ape should understand so well how to pay the sultan his due respect; and he himself was
more astonished than any one. In short, the usual ceremony of the audience would have been
complete could I have added speech to my behaviour: but apes never speak, and the advantage
I had of having been a man did not allow me that privilege.

The sultan dismissed his courtiers, and none remained by him but the chief of the chamberlains,
a young slave, and myself. He went from his chamber of audience into his own apartment, where
he ordered dinner to be brought. As he sat at table he gave me a sign to come near and eat
with them: to show my obedience I kissed the ground, stood up, sat down at table, and ate with
discretion and moderation.

Before the table was uncovered, I espied a writing-desk, which I made a sign should be brought
me: having got it, I wrote upon a large peach some verses after my way, which testified my
acknowledgment to the sultan, which increased his astonishment. When the table was uncovered,
they brought him a particular liquor, of which he caused them to give me a glass. I drank,
and wrote upon it some new verses, which explained the state I was reduced to after many sufferings.
The sultan read them likewise, and said, 'A man that was capable of doing so much would be
above the greatest of men.'

The sultan caused them to bring in a chess-board, and asked me, by a sign, if I understood
the game, and would play with him. I kissed the ground, and laying my hand upon my head, signified
that I was ready to receive that honour. He won the first game, but I won the second and third;
and perceiving he was somewhat displeased at it, I made a poem to pacify him; in which I told
him that two potent armies had been fighting furiously all day, but that they made up a peace
towards the evening, and passed the remaining part of the night very peaceably together upon
the field of battle.

So many circumstances appearing to the sultan far beyond whatever any one had either seen or
known of the cleverness or sense of apes, he determined not to be the only witness of those
prodigies himself; but having a daughter, called the Lady of Beauty, on whom the chief of the
chamberlains, then present, waited, 'Go,' said the sultan to him, 'and bid your lady come hither:
I am desirous she should share my pleasure.'

The chamberlain went, and immediately brought the princess, who had her face uncovered; but
she had no sooner come into the room than she put on her veil, and said to the sultan, 'Sir,
your majesty must needs have forgotten yourself: I am very much surprised that your majesty
has sent for me to appear among men.'

'Nay, daughter,' said the sultan, 'you do not know what you say: here is nobody but the little
slave, the chamberlain your attendant and myself, who have the liberty to see your face; and
yet you lower your veil, and blame me for having sent for you hither.'

'Sir,' said the princess, 'your majesty shall soon understand that I am not in the wrong. That
ape you see before you, though he has the shape of an ape, is a young prince, son of a great
king; he has been metamorphosed into an ape by enchantment. A genie, the son of the daughter
of Eblis, has maliciously done him this wrong, after having cruelly taken away the life of
the Princess of the Isle of Ebony, daughter to the King Epitimarus.'

The sultan, astonished at this discourse, turned towards me and asked no more by signs, but
in plain words if it was true what his daughter said? Seeing I could not speak, I put my hand
to my head to signify that what the princess spoke was true. Upon this the sultan said again
to his daughter, 'How do you know that this prince has been transformed by enchantments into
an ape?'

'Sir,' replied the Lady of Beauty, 'your majesty may remember that when I was past my infancy,
I had an old lady to wait upon me; she was a most expert magician, and taught me seventy rules
of magic, by virtue of which I can transport your capital city into the midst of the sea in
the twinkling of an eye, or beyond Mount Caucasus. By this science I know all enchanted persons
at first sight. I know who they are, and by whom they have been enchanted. Therefore do not
be surprised if I should forthwith relieve this prince, in spite of the enchantments, from
that which hinders him from appearing in your sight what he naturally is.'

'Daughter,' said the sultan, 'I did not believe you to have understood so much.'

'Sir,' replied the princess, 'these things are curious and worth knowing, but I think I ought
not to boast of them.'

'Since it is so,' said the sultan, 'you can dispel the prince's enchantment.'

'Yes, sir,' said the princess, 'I can restore him to his first shape again.'

'Do it then,' said the sultan; 'you cannot do me a greater pleasure, for I will have him to
be my vizier, and he shall marry you.'

'Sir,' said the princess, 'I am ready to obey you in all that you may be pleased to command me.'

The princess, the Lady of Beauty, went into her apartment, from whence she brought in a knife,
which had some Hebrew words engraven on the blade; she made the sultan, the master of the chamberlains,
the little slave, and myself, go down into a private court of the palace, and there left us
under a gallery that went round it. She placed herself in the middle of the court, where she
made a great circle, and within it she wrote several words in Arabic characters, some of them
ancient, and others of those which they call the characters of Cleopatra.

When she had finished and prepared the circle as she thought fit, she placed herself in the
centre of it, where she began spells, and repeated verses out of the Koran. The air grew insensibly
dark, as if it had been night and the whole world about to be dissolved; we found ourselves
struck with a panic, and this fear increased the more when we saw the genie, the son of the
daughter of Eblis, appear on a sudden in the shape of a lion of a frightful size.

As soon as the princess perceived this monster, 'You dog,' said she, 'instead of creeping before
me, dare you present yourself in this shape, thinking to frighten me?'

'And thou,' replied the lion, 'art thou not afraid to break the treaty which was solemnly made
and confirmed between us by oath, not to wrong or to do one another any hurt?'

'Oh! thou cursed creature!' replied the princess, 'I can justly reproach thee with doing so.'

The lion answered fiercely, 'Thou shalt quickly have thy reward for the trouble thou hast given
me to return.' With that he opened his terrible throat, and ran at her to devour her, but she,
being on her guard, leaped backward, got time to pull out one of her hairs and, by pronouncing
three or four words, changed it into a sharp sword, wherewith she cut the lion through the
middle in two pieces.

The two parts of the lion vanished, and the head only was left, which changed itself into a
large scorpion. Immediately the princess turned herself into a serpent, and fought the scorpion,
who finding himself worsted, took the shape of an eagle, and flew away; but the serpent at
the same time took also the shape of an eagle that was black and much stronger, and pursued
him, so that we lost sight of them both.

Some time after they had disappeared, the ground opened before us, and out of it came forth
a cat, black and white, with her hair standing upright, and mewing in a frightful manner; a
black wolf followed her close, and gave her no time to rest. The cat, being thus hard beset,
changed herself into a worm, and being nigh to a pomegranate that had accidentally fallen from
a tree that grew on the side of a canal which was deep but not broad, the worm pierced the
pomegranate in an instant, and hid itself. The pomegranate swelled immediately, and became
as big as a gourd, which, mounting up to the roof of the gallery, rolled there for some space
backwards and forwards, fell down again into the court, and broke into several pieces.

The wolf, which had in the meanwhile transformed itself into a cock, fell to picking up the
seeds of the pomegranate one after another, but finding no more, he came towards us with his
wings spread, making a great noise, as if he would ask us whether there were any more seeds.
There was one lying on the brink of the canal, which the cock perceived as he went back, and
ran speedily thither, but just as he was going to pick it up, the seed rolled into the river,
and turned into a little fish.

The cock jumped into the river and was turned into a pike that pursued the small fish; they
continued both under water for over two hours, and we knew not what had become of them. All
of a sudden we heard terrible cries, which made us tremble, and a little while after we saw
the genie and princess all in flames. They threw flashes of fire out of their mouths at each
other, till they came to close quarters; then the two fires increased, with a thick burning
smoke, which mounted so high that we had reason to fear it would set the palace on fire. But
we very soon had a more urgent reason for fear, for the genie, having got loose from the princess,
came to the gallery where we stood, and blew flames of fire upon us. We should all have perished
if the princess, running to our assistance, had not by her cries forced him to retire, and
defend himself against her; yet, notwithstanding all her exertions, she could not hinder the
sultan's beard from being burnt, and his face spoiled, nor the chief of the chamberlains from
being stifled and burnt on the spot. The sultan and I expected nothing but death, when we heard
a cry of 'Victory, victory!' and on a sudden the princess appeared in her natural shape, but
the genie was reduced to a heap of ashes.

The princess came near to us that she might not lose time, called for a cupful of water, which
the young slave, who had received no damage, brought her. She took it, and after pronouncing
some words over it, threw it upon me, saying, 'If thou art become an ape by enchantment, change
thy shape, and take that of a man, which thou hadst before.' These words were hardly uttered
when I became a man as I was before.

I was preparing to give thanks to the princess, but she prevented me by addressing herself
to her father, thus: 'Sir, I have gained the victory over the genie, as your majesty may see;
but it is a victory that costs me dear. I have but a few minutes to live, and you will not
have the satisfaction of making the match you intended; the fire has pierced me during the
terrible combat, and I find it is consuming me by degrees. This would not have happened had
I perceived the last of the pomegranate seeds, and swallowed it as I did the others, when I
was changed into a cock; the genie had fled thither as to his last entrenchment, and upon that
the success of the combat depended, without danger to me. This slip obliged me to have recourse
to fire, and to fight with those mighty arms as I did between heaven and earth, in your presence;
for, in spite of all his redoubtable art and experience, I made the genie know that I understood
more than he. I have conquered and reduced him to ashes, but I cannot escape death, which is
approaching.'

The sultan suffered the princess, the Lady Or Beauty, to go on with the recital of her combat,
and when she had done he spoke to her in a tone that sufficiently testified his grief: 'My
daughter,' said he, 'you see in what condition your father is; alas! I wonder that I am yet
alive!' He could speak no more, for his tears, sighs and sobs made him speechless; his daughter
and I wept with him.

In the meantime, while we were vieing with each other in grief the princess cried, 'I burn!
I burn!' She found that the fire which consumed her had at last seized upon her whole body,
which made her still cry 'I burn,' until death had made an end of her intolerable pains. The
effect of that fire was so extraordinary that in a few moments she was wholly reduced to ashes,
like the genie.

How grieved I was at so dismal a spectacle! I had rather all my life have continued an ape
or a dog than to have seen my benefactress thus miserably perish. The sultan, being afflicted
beyond all that can be imagined, cried out piteously, and beat himself on his head, until being
quite overcome with grief, he fainted away, which made me fear for his life. The marriage had embellished giving
the full kind of the female form, making her beautiful golden spring and wonderful summer. The
same maternity, without removing or defacing cool your body, it lent a soft, protective majesty.
Then the sovereign pleasure, art, or rather, with I knew adapt the color and shape of the dress
to the tone of her flesh and changes operating in nature, gave prominence to this exquisite
and lovable.

Of course, the whole house revolved around her. As a goddess worshiped and feared, his spirit
moved all human figures sheltering towers puppets. To Dona Paula, who had actually face in the
first months of marriage, had slipped back into slavery. She did not abuse that domain. Let all your taste
fulfilled, except when directly or indirectly going against him. For example, no one knew
when to Sarrió would make, but it. The no cook food arranged without consulting her. The driver
went up to ask every day if I wanted to walk. The gardener did not move a pot without asking
the permission. In contrast no he cared little or much that her husband come out. Once saw
him ready to leave Cecilia, he said, smiling in the presence of these
and others:

- Great friends you are going by you and Cecilia.

Look, I celarme.

And the time to say, fell upon him one of those looks that expressed belief sovereign depths of
his domain. Gonzalo, even moving away, I could not break the chain again soft and submissive
to his feet, like the comet that crosses giddy spaces and to an immeasurable
distance from the sun feel the brake and he becomes docile to his
forehead.

Gonzalo paid that look to other absolute return. Cecilia had been slightly pale and smiling
to hide his embarrassment.

- Come on, gone, gone!

Do not want to see ahead - added .-- If you are hitting me, too bad you, it'll take a revenge
sounded.

The joke was not delicate, bearing in mind what had mediated between Cecilia and Gonzalez. But Venturita
woman was not repaired much to unlock.

In early December moved to Sarrió. A month after giving birth Ventura a beautiful girl, white and
blonde like her. Gonzalo was so in love with his wife, who received with joy, yes, but not
with the joy and eagerness with which men usually welcome their first child. His concern was
primarily the health of his wife, who does not supervene incident. Everything became enter and
leave the room, taking the pulse and grind to questions Don Rufo.

In view of this, Ventura could raise no objection to his daughter. She was a girl sturdy, well
made. Only when children do very greedy, freshness and beauty the mother usually fade a little.
In this event, she was filled with fear and opposed, first disguised, then in no uncertain
terms, to breastfeed the child. Gonzalo was convinced then and even found that a reasonable objection.
Instead Dona Paula was greatly angered, but only expressed his displeasure at the back of Ventura.

Cecilia was so caring, so vigilant in the care of the creature, which soon fully seized of it. Placed
in his room a bed for the mother and the cradle girls, with the pretext that it was ill Venturita
he passed a bad night. She withstood two and three sailing without any alteration. And indeed,
as the girl cried, was the first that jumped out of bed to give to
the nurse.

If it could not silence it Tomabal in arms, and walked with her for hours, to sleep.

With this, the young couple were able to sleep together again with the same freedom and neglect in
the early days of dating. When morning had the baby to his mother, Cecilia and had bathed in warm
water and brought it wrapped in clean diapers. Played with her for a while. When it came time
to enter the toilet gave it back to her sister.

Similarly, though with some diffidence, born from the desire not to offend your sister and be
contrast to her, Cecilia was involved in the care of clothing Gonzalo, and in accordance his office.
He concluded by giving the keys to the cabinets .-- "Cecilia, I get dressed." The girl ran
into the room and returned a few moments, saying: - "You got it all." Gonzalo was, in effect, folded
clothes on the bed, his shirt buttons posts, polished boots, next to the nightstand .-- "Cecilia,
I have been a bit tattered lining his coat.

"When I was putting it ere it sewn. And she was neglected Asaz renew their dresses, like her
brother extremely wears the latest fashion, no consented under any circumstances, that he wandered
one day even with a boot or tie chopped dirty. Enjoyed to see him go out with a sleek new suit.
From the balcony, raising a little shade, followed him with her eyes when she went to coffee with
a cigarette in his mouth. And then that he turned the corner, still watching, until it dissipates
in the air, last puff of smoke was released.

One day, Gonzalo, angry with himself for what he spent without substance, gave the key money
.-- "Look, you keep that key, or Ventura or art I have to manage the rooms. When you ask for money,
as outlined in this notebook and you let us know what we spent in the month. Maybe this way we will
moderate a bit. "Turned into quartermaster general, the couple soon realized some improvement in their
business. Gonzalo when he got some account, the servant said, smiling: - "Stuff you administrator."
The servant smiled too and took her to Cecilia.

This intimacy, this unique rapport in-laws in almost all acts of life, had fathered an unlimited
trust between them, mostly by Gonzalo. Nothing happened to it in the street, in coffee, not Cecilia
came to tell who was paying tireless attention. His wife, but neither cared nor wanted to hear
even talk about the chase, of their disputes, the occurrences of his friends. Everything that
was not fashion, dance, Descriptions of Madrid soirées, weddings of the largest in Spain, slightly interested.
What most excited his curiosity was as it related to the kings and the royal family. Avidly
read the story palace receptions, knew the label as well as a gentleman of the bedchamber, how
to greet kings, how he kissed their hands, when he had to speak in his presence, how he had to retire.
He knew the names and biographies of each of the members of the royal family and also the most
distinguished nobles of the court. Novels, and a Mrs. Queen stewardess who had been taking baths
in Sarrió, had suggested aspirations fantasy, a longing to live in that atmosphere brilliant.
The majesty of princes touched her, the foreclosure of submission, that she was unable to humiliate
anyone! And that gallant life of the court gave him a glare and the glow of a happy dream. When
I had been in Madrid, the quality of provincial America, had not consented to enjoy rather than
theaters, car rides down the Castellana, shops and streets. Of the court, their soirees and
rejoicing, had remained as distant as Sarrió. And But she was well convinced, and he was right,
that could shine in any part. Her beauty and alive and funny imagination was endowed, had made
it noted immediately in the highest society. Sometimes walking in with her landau husband,
had been carefully noticing her eyes and lust of the Duke of S. .. of Marquis de C. .. of towering
political figures. Once he had heard the Duchess of Medina as they cross the carriages, tell
your partner will be married this girl :--«¿ as cute? "In those three months in Madrid, had been
a poetic vision, a memory confusion of their pleasures, and some itching to imitate with the
poor means at its disposal in the town to swanky ladies of the court, whose customs he only knew by
hearsay .. Thus, For example, he left home, which was infrequently used to do in a carriage,
especially if he went to theater. The custom of the car came to wait for the conclusion of
the function Sarrió had caused some surprise and no little grumbling. Costumes with that presented
public were always fanciful, entirely different from the other ladies wearing of the population.
These generally, used to ride home with the clothes' in any fascist "as they say. Ventura operated
a revolution, seen from the morning with new clothes and appropriate at that hour. Not surprised
her again, or even withdrawal of his cabinet, without all the gadgets and ornaments typical of
the time.

Their gowns colored silk always off, their lace bonnets never seen before, her slippers velvet,
was the astonishment of the population. There were many ladies who were to visit only touched
by news of his home.

Gonzalo, seeing her engrossed in reading the journals of rooms, hearing described as if I had seen,
a dance palace, cried laughing :--«¿ you know the name of medicine that hobby of yours? ... Delusions
of grandeur. " She was angry. Like all characters mocking, deeply
wounded him ridicule.

With his sister the young man laughed a few times, others showed irritation of those extravagances
of his wife, which he described as stupid and cheesy. Cecilia tried to calm him down, blaming
a few years, the fickle nature of Ventura: - "You'll see - you said, - within a few months
not remember such nonsense. "

Cecilia was her shoulder to cry on, his confidant in all marital troubles. Never let's get out
of his mouth some useful advice, some comforting words to calm down its strong and sudden anger.
It had been so accustomed to those confidences when after a scuffle with Ventura was not his sister
at home, put the hat and ran to look for walks, to church or where it was. The long spent together
these reliefs also uninvited. Ventura did not want to leave. And Don Rufo demanded that the girl
take the outdoors, Cecilia was responsible for accompanying the mother. Gonzalo accompanied
them to both the mother with the girl before, he and Cecilia back.

In those long walks he confided all his secrets, he neatly explained their fears, their joys,
their hopes. Sometimes, listening to reason with as much insight into moral matters, I used to
cry with little gallantry :--«¡ Ventura Too bad your character has no sensible and sensible!
"

She, however, remained impenetrable to him, as for all the world. Or because he did not secrets
to tell, or too quiet temperament, the eldest of Belinchón fleeing to talk about herself with extraordinary
care. Neither their joys and their sorrows were unrecognizable. Only a very fine observer could,
by force of habit, out vaguely stirred the emotions. Gonzalo was not. In his childhood self
healthy and muscular man, had come to see her sister as a passive, reasonable and cool, admirable
advise and lead others, a higher being, if you will, but unable to feel those anger, those joys,
those foolish passions that altered the weak characters like yours. However, sometimes, in jest, had
tried to get the body their little secrets. I knew that three or four young men of the people aspiring
to her hand. To some of them had caught more than once walking the streets. On stage with the arrow
twins.

And although he noted with some disgust Gonzalo that he must have in that worship more desire
for the dowry that true love speaking it sought to flatter their suitors. She shrank from the
conversation with stubborn silence, smiling vaguely so as not to
betray his thought, until after it looked precisely to talk about
something else.

On one occasion, however, Gonzalo took the matter more seriously and persistently. A childhood
friend, engineer, spoke to Cecilia, and asked for his protection interested in their favor.
The frankness and sincerity of his speech was very pleased the boy.

- Gonzalo - he said - I'm already old and ready to get married. I did not want to do in Madrid
or Seville, where I intended, because I distrust women who do not know far back. Men should marry
at home with young people who have seen it grow to his side. Determined to marry a girl of the population,
I've noticed your sister, and I honestly tell you my thoughts. Cecilia is not pretty or ugly,
is a woman passable. I always believe that they are more calculated to wives. In the four
or five times I've spoken to her home of Saldana, I found it very nice and very reasonable,
honest and modest. Her friends all speak well of her. It is an important fact that men do not take
into account enough to marry. Because friends tend to be ruthless the one for the other, and
seek the tickling that is a blessing ... Besides, your sister have a good luck tomorrow, and
this, why should not I tell you? also other data that should be considered. I do not know why
they have to marry men for system with poor women.

The man needs created by marriage, are many: children may become too high, and everything
should look. I do not need to marry for interest. I have a pretty lucrative career. My parents
also have to leave some hacienda ... Want to ask if I have been unsympathetic in the few times
I've talked to her, and I agree that if present in your home?

Gonzalo promised to bring their influence, he hinted more or less reluctantly clear, flattering success,
boasting of the power exercised over it.

Until then all indications that did, had been addressed .-- "I think
if I do not get carried to auction the company, no one else can try
it "- he concluded by saying in a fit expansion and pride.

That night seized the moment when Cecilia came to inflame the lamp
at the office, to say it smiling:

- Do you have something to do now,
Cecilia?

... No? ... Then sit down a moment, I'll confess.

The girl looked at him with big blue eyes and soft, where he painted
the surprise.

Gonzalo forced her to sit.

- Do you have a boyfriend? - The asked sharply.

- What a question
- she said smiling face, without shame.

- Do not talk about boyfriend.

If you had and I would be aware. I just want to know if between youth award new one is interested
to have achieved more or less.

- What do you want to know that?

- Answer.

Cecilia shook his head.

- Well then I take the liberty to speak of one, who has begged me ... It This is my friend Paco
Flores, whom I know. I have been asked to recommend to you, asking while if the few times you have
spoken you had been unfriendly.

- Nasty? - Asked with surprise .--
Why?

I do not dislike anyone until it is committed any rudeness.

- After you begged me to ask if you consent to be presented at this
house.

- That's another thing - getting suddenly serious answered
.-- I can not stop it presented here, but as my consent could mean
that I have pleasure in visiting us, I'm not willing to give.

- It
is not you accept it by boyfriend - was quick to say only want .--
Gonzalo let him treat you any time, and if after you consider worthy
of your hand, is granted, and if not, deny it.

- Well, of course
denied, and without treatment - the young woman replied firmly.

-
It is too early - Gonzalo said smiling to hide his irritation that
this sudden response had occurred.

- I think in these matters the
more sincere we are, the better.

Why has bothering to visit the boy in a long time to receive the response that I can give
right now?

- Well, well, proceed slowly. If you Paco is not unpleasant, as you confess, you can not ensure
that after six or eight months or a year does not fall in love with
him.

- I am incapable of falling in love - with a bitter smile she
said that her brother did not understand.

- Love comes when least
expected - he said .-- We sententiously years and years without feeling,
and one day, poof! heart skips a beat.

Have we found our soulmate.

These words as candid as cruel, removed the few drops of gall Cecilia
kept in his chest.

With quick sentence and looking hard at one of the arms of the chair where was sitting, said:

-
Well, I'm sure my heart will not poof! any day.

- Why should ensure that, Cecilia?

Women more than men, are made for love for the enjoyment it provides, for family life. You could
say that the only destination of women on earth is marriage, because it is responsible to hold onto
it life. Its physical layout, all body organs are built for the production of this life ...

Gonzalo
advocated by his friend Paco, appealing, as it looks, even physiology. Cecilia listened in silence,
his face stern, staring into space.

The words of his brother rang in his soul as an accent of despair. Yes, it was true, unfortunately
was all true! When finished making the apology of love, was his friend Paco Flores a young
man so clear, so formal, the son of a good family, brilliant career, etc., etc.

Cecilia dryly persisted in refusing his consent to come home.

Then Gonzalo, a little irritated by the dispute, and wounded his pride for having boasted no
Paco right in front of its influence on the young, let out some harsh words: "Why seemed little
chance for her?
 There I immediately gave great alms to the poor, and lived honourably
upon the vast riches I had gained with so much fatigue.

              THE THIRD VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR.

The pleasures of the life which I then led soon made me forget the risks I had run in my two
former voyages; but, being then in the flower of my age I grew weary of living without business;
and hardening myself against the thought of any danger I might incur, I went from Bagdad, with
the richest commodities of the country, to Balsora: there I embarked again with the merchants.
We made a long voyage, and touched at several ports, where we drove a considerable trade. One
day, being out in the main ocean, we were attacked by a horrible tempest, which made us lose
our course. When we had furled our sails the captain told us that this and some other neighbouring
islands were inhabited by hairy savages, who would speedily attack us; and though they were
but dwarfs, yet our misfortune was that we must make no resistance, for they were more in number
than the locusts; and if we happened to kill one of them they would all fall upon us and destroy
us.

This discourse of the captain put the whole company into a great consternation; and we found
very soon, to our cost, that what he had told us was but too true; an innumerable multitude
of frightful savages, covered all over with red hair, and about two feet high, came swimming
towards us, and in a little time encompassed our ship. They spoke to us as they came near,
but we understood not their language; they climbed up the sides of the ship with an agility
that surprised us. We beheld all this with mortal fear, without daring to offer to defend ourselves,
or to speak one word to divert them from their mischievous design. In short, they took down
our sails, cut the cable, and, hauling to the shore, made us all get out, and afterwards carried
the ship into another island, from whence they had come. All travellers carefully avoided that
island where they left us, it being very dangerous to stay there, for a reason you shall hear
anon; but we were forced to bear our affliction with patience.

We went forward into the island, where we found some fruits and herbs to prolong our lives
as long as we could; but we expected nothing but death. As we went on we perceived at a distance
a great pile of building, and made towards it. We found it to be a palace, well built, and
very lofty, with a gate of ebony with double doors, which we thrust open. We entered the court,
where we saw before us a vast apartment with a porch, having on one side a heap of men's bones,
and on the other a vast number of roasting spits. We trembled at this spectacle, and, being
weary with travelling, our legs failed under us: we fell to the ground, seized with deadly
fear, and lay a long time motionless.

The sun had set, and whilst we were in the lamentable condition just mentioned, the gate of
the apartment opened with a great noise, and there came out the horrible figure of a black
man, as high as a tall palm tree.

At last we came to ourselves, and saw him sitting in the porch, looking at us. For our parts,
it was not possible for us to enjoy any rest; so that we passed the night in the most cruel
fear that can be imagined. Day being come, the giant awoke, got up, went out, and left us in
the palace.

When we thought him at a distance, we broke the melancholy silence we had kept all night, and
every one grieving more than another, we made the palace resound with our complaints and groans.
Though there were a great many of us, and we had but one enemy, we had not at first the presence
of mind to think of delivering ourselves from him by his death.

We thought of several other things, but determined nothing; so that, submitting to what it
should please God to order concerning us, we spent the day in running about the island for
fruit and herbs to sustain our lives. When evening came, we sought for a place to lie down
in, but found none; so that we were forced, whether we would or not, to return to the palace.

The giant failed not to come back, and supped once more upon one of our companions; after which
he slept, and snored till day, and then went out and left us as formerly. Our condition was
so very terrible that several of my comrades designed to throw themselves into the sea, rather
than die so strange a death. Those who were of this mind argued with the rest to follow their
example; upon which one of the company answered that we were forbidden to destroy ourselves;
but even if it were lawful, it was more reasonable to think of a way to rid ourselves of the
barbarous tyrant who designed so cruel a death for us.

Having thought of a project for that end, I communicated the same to my comrades, who approved
it. 'Brethren,' said I, 'you know there is a great deal of timber floating upon the coast;
if you will be advised by me, let us make several rafts that may carry us, and when they are
done, leave them there till we think fit to make use of them. In the meantime we will execute
the design to deliver ourselves from the giant, and if it succeed, we may stay here with patience
till some ship pass by to carry us out of this fatal island; but if it happen to miscarry,
we will speedily get to our rafts, and put to sea. The old White
thought he could not take, you could hear the voices and the revelry of the last masks who withdrew,
and a distant orchestra, perhaps the club, played the last gallop. All those details increased
the cruel situation of the elderly afflicted, almost motionless, a prey a terrible fever. In
that state he crawled across the floor always probing the furniture: Finally, put his hand
on a sofa, occupying the space between the balcony and the door leading to her daughter's
room and an intimate joy rose, boosted Graciana to the starting gate was left ajar and entered
the room, crazy, turbulent, inattentive. But the room was full of smoke, there had burned something:
he remembered his dream, this sudden light had hurt her eyes and cry that seemed pervasive that
even hear and fell back in terrible despair. The smoke from the room began to suffocate and
a cold and indescribable terror closed her lips and stopped her movements instinctive fear not permitted
to move, preferring the doubt, immobility, before accelerating the awful outcome that night of abandonment
and insomnia. In such a situation she called shy, kindly, Gratian, but, as before, no one answered.

Prostrate
on the floor in a corner of the room, always surrounded by complete darkness, he heard that a carriage
had stopped under the balconies, and soon to be opened with great
care and closed the front door, then felt the grand staircase steps:
wanted to speed up call to those who came, but the words choked in
his throat and had to wait, heard the footsteps in the hall and a
few seconds later the sound of a key in lock the bedroom door that
was, the door opened and gave way to someone: the frou-frou Silk told
him that White was coming back.

Suddenly blazed a phosphorus and continuous act violent gas light lit up the room.

Then the box was presented to the view of those who were there, it was terrible at one end of
the stay, the home of the girl covered in soot, the curtains were on, the fire had invaded the
clothes, the unfortunate creature was dead burned Graciana by neglect, which bewildered by
the flight, had left the candle within walking distance of the crib.
 We rejoiced yesterday at having escaped from the cruelty of a giant
and the rage of the waves, and now are we fallen into another danger altogether as terrible.'

As we walked about we saw a large tall tree, upon which we designed to pass the following night,
for our security; and having satisfied our hunger with fruit, we mounted it accordingly. A
little while after, the serpent came hissing to the root of the tree, raised itself up against
the trunk of it, and meeting with my comrade, who sat lower than I, swallowed him at once,
and went off.

I staid upon the tree till it was day, and then came down, more like a dead man than one alive,
expecting the same fate as my two companions. This filled me with horror, so that I was going
to throw myself into the sea; but nature prompting us to a desire to live as long as we can,
I withstood this temptation to despair, and submitted myself to the will of God, who disposes
of our lives at His pleasure. Having done thus, when the evening came I shut myself up within
this circle, with this melancholy piece of satisfaction, that I had neglected nothing which
could preserve me from the cruel destiny with which I was threatened.

I was fatigued with the toil he had put me to, and suffered so much from his poisonous breath
that, death seeming preferable to me than the horror of such a condition. I came down from
the tree, and not thinking on the resignation I had made to the will of God the preceding day,
I ran towards the sea, with a design to throw myself into it headlong.

God took compassion on my desperate state, for just as I was going to throw myself into the
sea, I perceived a ship at a considerable distance. I called as loud as I could, and taking
the linen from my turban, displayed it that they might observe me. This had the desired effect;
all the crew perceived me, and the captain sent his boat for me. As soon as I came aboard,
the merchants and seamen flocked about me to know how I came to that desert island; and after
I had told them of all that befell me, the oldest among them said they had several times heard
of the giants that dwelt in that island, that they were cannibals and ate men raw as well as
roasted; and as to the serpents, he added, there were abundance in the isle that hid themselves
by day and came abroad by night. After having testified their joy at my escaping so many dangers,
they brought me the best of what they had to eat; and the captain, seeing that I was all in
rags, was so generous as to give me one of his own suits.

We were at sea for some time, touched at several islands, and at last landed at that of Salabat,
where there grows sanders, a wood of great use in physic. We entered the port, and came to
anchor. The merchants began to unload their goods, in order to sell or exchange them. In the
meantime the captain came to me, and said, 'Brother, I have here a parcel of goods that belonged
to a merchant who sailed some time on board this ship; and he being dead, I intend to dispose
of them for the benefit of his heirs, when I know them.' The bales he spoke of lay on the deck,
and showing them to me, he said, 'There are the goods; I hope you will take care to sell them,
and you shall have a commission.' I thanked him that he gave me an opportunity to employ myself,
because I hated to be idle.

The clerk of the ship took an account of all the bales, with the names of the merchants to
whom they belonged; and when he asked the captain in whose name he should enter those he gave
me the charge of, 'Enter them,' said the captain, 'in the name of Sinbad the sailor.' I could
not hear myself named without some emotion, and looking steadfastly on the captain, I knew
him to be the person who, in my second voyage, had left me in the island where I fell asleep
by a brook, and set sail without me, and without sending to look for me. But I could not remember
him at first, he was so much altered since I saw him.

And as for him, who believed me to be dead, I could not wonder at his not knowing me. 'But,
captain,' said I, 'was the merchant's name to whom those goods belonged Sinbad?'

'Yes,' replied he, 'that was his name; he came from Bagdad, and embarked on board my ship at
Balsora. One day, when we landed at an island to take in water and other refreshments, I know
not by what mistake I set sail without observing that he did not re-embark with us; neither
I nor the merchants perceived it till four hours after. We had the wind in our stern and so
fresh a gale that it was not then possible for us to tack about for him.'

'You believe him then to be dead?' said I.

'Certainly,' answered he.

'No, captain,' said I; 'look upon me, and you may know that I am Sinbad, whom you left in that
desert island. I fell asleep by a brook, and when I awoke I found all the company gone.'

The captain, having considered me attentively, knew me at last embraced me, and said, 'God
be praised that fortune has supplied my defect. There are your goods, which I always took care
to preserve and to make the best of at every port where I touched. I restore them to you, with
the profit I have made on them.' I took them from him, and at the same time acknowledged how
much I owed to him.

From the Isle of Salabat we went to another, where I furnished myself with cloves, cinnamon,
and other spices. As we sailed from that island we saw a tortoise that was twenty cubits in
length and breadth. We observed also a fish which looked like a cow, and gave milk, and its
skin is so hard that they usually make bucklers of it. I saw another which had the shape and
colour of a camel. In short, after a long voyage, I arrived at Balsora, and from thence returned
to this city of Bagdad, with so much riches that I knew not what I had. I gave a great deal
to the poor, and bought another great estate in addition to what I had already.

              THE FOURTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR.

The pleasures I took after my third voyage had not charms enough to divert me from another.
I was again prevailed upon by my passion for traffic and curiosity to see new things. I therefore
settled my affairs, and having provided a stock of goods fit for the places where I designed
to trade, I set out on my journey. I took the way of Persia, of which I travelled over several
provinces, and then arrived at a port, where I embarked. We set sail, and having touched at
several ports of the mainland and some of the eastern islands, we put out to sea, and were
overtaken by a sudden gust of wind that obliged the captain to furl his sails, and to take
all other necessary precautions to prevent the danger that threatened us. But all was in vain;
our endeavours had no effect, the sails were torn into a thousand pieces, and the ship was
stranded; so that a great many of the merchants and seamen were drowned, and the cargo lost.
We stayed all night near the place where the sea cast us ashore, without consulting what we
should do, our misfortune had dispirited us so much.

Next morning, as soon as the sun was up, we walked from the shore, and advancing into the island,
saw some houses, to which we went; and as soon as we came thither we were encompassed by a
great number of black men, who seized us, shared us among them, and carried us to their respective
habitations.

I and five of my comrades were carried to one place; they made us sit down immediately, and
gave us a certain herb, which they made signs to us to eat. My comrades, not taking notice
that the black men ate none of it themselves, consulted only the satisfying of their own hunger,
and fell to eating with greediness: but I, suspecting some trick, would not so much as taste
it, which happened well for me; for in a little time I perceived my companions had lost their
senses, and that when they spoke to me they knew not what they said.

The black men fed us afterwards with rice, prepared with oil of cocoanuts, and my comrades,
who had lost their reason, ate of it greedily. I ate of it also, but very sparingly. The black
men gave us that herb at first on purpose to deprive us of our senses, that we might not be
aware of the sad destiny prepared for us; and they gave us rice on purpose to fatten us, for,
being cannibals, their design was to eat us as soon as we grew fat. They did accordingly eat
my comrades, who were not aware of their condition; but my senses being entire, you may easily
guess that instead of growing fat, as the rest did, I grew leaner every day. The fear of death
under which I laboured turned all my food into poison. I fell into a languishing illness which
proved my safety, for the black men having killed and eaten up my companions, seeing me to
be withered, lean, and sick, deferred my death till another time. 

The apprehended no answer, and seemed determined to use the most studied reserve your correspondent,
who showed keen interest in locking relationship.

- Is telescope that? - Insisted the unofficial.

The owner of the telescope did not answer.

Semiavergonzado the questioner, voyeur everyone we surrounded the
lord of the telescope, looking like a geeky guy who confesses to a
false position.

But our man was not to assign individual strains and two relapsed.

- Do I want to leave to look for a moment?

The owner of the telescope did not answer this time.

- Hey, mister! - Timidly repeated touching on the arm - I want to stop looking?

The telescope took his eyes of glass, turned to see who spoke and
answered dryly:

- No!

The snubbed tried to forge a smile to hide.

Meanwhile, had won seats at the gate of the seawall where we were, a lady fat, with a style of bananas
on which hung a Spanish mantilla sheet, tucking side by all the obstacles that had found its
way, the face lit by a layer recently applied rouge, distributed a perennial smile everywhere,
and tucked in a green dress Moiree, inflated by a moving and oscillating crinoline appeared Balloon
in a time of rising.

A mole with hair on the lower face of our new arrival was a roguish air coquette withdrawal.

He was accompanied two undistinguished-looking girls, but plenty of
cuddles and perendengues, bodies with a well designed, and a bust
in which nature or art had abused with some insolence of a marked
inclination to the exuberance.

The two girls, coming from the neighborhood of Montserrat probably
verged on the 20 or 22 years and entered our group, which was narrowing,
putting an unusual cacophony of screams and laughter which I could
not explain causes.

- Look, Mom - said the eldest, - this gentleman
is so friendly, that will let you look through the telescope.

- By
God, Rachel! do not bother this man ... What to say about us! - Answered
with a tone of reproach Mrs. apparent.

- Sir, sir!

Will you let us see out there? - Hinted the other girl.

- Ah, no, by God, not bother you! ... Judith, by God, shut up - repeated
the mother a continuous head wiggle.

The telescope remained impassive as a statue, as if no one spoke.

-
There is smoke, there are - shouted one nearby.

The human wave was stirred and an eddy, the people were grouped in the rail, everyone wanted to
see. I, pinned Alexander, perched on their shoulders, dominated the height.

- Oh, I wrinkle! --- Cried the mother of Rachel and Judith, without the help crinoline up .-- Oh,
my dress, I spoil it all! I do not see Judit!

Judit, Judith, Judiiit!

Judith, who was nearby, and whom the mother could not find, talking to a young slouch hat, black
shiny material of alpaca coat and starched white trousers, without
saving distances that is, bound to him by a close unused.

- Oh, my
daughter, my daughter!

Where is my daughter? I have lost my daughter! Judith Judiiit! - Exclaimed Mrs. prolonging
the scream.

- Here I am, Mom, no fuss, here I am - finally answered Judith, making it possible to loosen the
hand of her beau, which held firmly to her not to go.

- Do not move
from here, hussy, do not separate me.

You come too, Raquel. Oh, Jesus! Well I said your father! Do not mess much among people with
the girls, Donata; sight not bold miss your hands in the brawl and
that you too have to handle: What people, by God, what people!

What lack of respect with the ladies! How much better would not been going to the heights of Columbus!
...

But the crowd pulled him moving around. Uploaded by Alexander, who with his arm it was free, he
made his way as a Hercules, we went to take another position.

Yo, from the shoulders elevated my driver, saw the poor Dona Donata
and her two biblical creatures, victims of the prognosis of her husband
and manhandled by the mob undisciplined between the lad who had pirated
it rude daughters and undid him bananas and tore his splendid parrot-colored
dress, supreme admiration Montserrat district in a mass.

- I have
anchored, moored vessels have already! - Screaming around us .-- You
see, sir, - I said a black gentleman petizón, tiptoe in vain to see,
- see, there there - and pointed his index finger.

- Where?

Where? - Questioned the other impatiently, standing on tiptoe.

- There are, there has anchored the waterfall, there the Pampero, behind the Hercules who comes
walking is still the Pintos, and the other two boats are sailing
left, the San Juan Bautista and the Rio Bamba.

- Che! and you how
you know the ship - said Alexander.

- Oh! I do not see the lower,
friend - said the black .-- Look - added, - the destination for gigs
to seek officers, and the whale to land the troops.

Bomb! Pas! That is the Cordoba ago saved.

And indeed, a sudden white cloud enveloped the ship's sides and the echo of cannon dilated echoing
dully through the spaces.

It was three in the afternoon of that sweltering day, the church bells cast in flight, rockets
and bombs bursting in air without interruption. As the troops landed, the battalions were formed in
the spring column. While this operation took place, Alejandro and I beheld from afar, leaning
over the fence, because we had left pass kiosks, entry forward.

On the beach, and at the foot of the seawall where we were, several rounds of Bass, in evening
gown, had gathered to hear two of them, one armed with a guitar heavily ribbed white and blue,
and one with an accordion, singing songs chauvinistic one of those tunes compadrito characteristics
of Buenos Aires.

- You sing the ring! - Shouted one of the listeners.

- Your godmother! - Then said the guitarist, who actually had his
eyes more twisted than a crossroads.

- Sing what you arreglao ché
pa National Guard.

The guitar with the accordion attacked a vulgar air, but rhythmic,
ancestor straight from the milonga of the day, and behind the air,
the nasal voice said ferrule and shocking the following couplet:

Our
National Guard in Cepeda and Pavón, bravely unparalleled was launched
on the barrel the federal coward.

- Lindo, Don Polybius!

      If you Naide verseador race
    and wins. Even the gringos
    of the whaling were drooling
    when you sing.
    

The shrill wheeze of the accordion would have followed, along with the wailing of the guitar
if military bands had not announced that the column, formed already
got underway along the waterfront.

That was when the crowd blocked the entrance, snatched by a row of
guards armed, in charge of opening streets, swirled and fell back,
compact, to tighten against the walls of the neighboring houses, a
troop of horsemen came from the town, occupied abandoned space.

Gold dazzled me gals, white feathers and blue elastics agitated by the wind, the bright colors of
the uniforms. Alexander I lifted up so that he could see well, but barely had time to descry an elastic
covering a long and rich mane of locks falling on an indolent and spacious front lead-colored
eyes, all this supported on a body that would not have disdained to Doré Lafayette in drafting
a distance. I wanted to see more, but the riders did prance their horses, the first row of
the column appeared, and just came to my ear the echo of Olympic accents a proclamation but nice to
be extinguished in unison roar of applause taxed for twenty thousand hands. I also cheered
and clapped his hands.

- Why applauds - Alejandro told me, in a bad mood - if you hear nothing?

- Oh - I said - do you need to understand? How also applaud all the
others without understand?

VIII

At night, my uncles, as I promised, I was taken to the Victoria Theatre. Delgado García company
sang the National Anthem and representing the flower of a day, Camprodón. Oh, flower of a day!
Oh, Pavón Spanish dramatic theater! Why is my fantasy Eccentric see you disappear in the past,
in the same grave that swallowed the crinolines and banana hair? Was not Lola the loveliest
and most romantic of women? Did not Diego had the outline poetic lover and the Marquis de
Montero grave picture of a baritone zarzuela sad?

Why have to be a nonsense, oh legitimate daughter of Don Francisco Camprodón adopted by every
theater in Latin America? You have done an entire continent from tears Vera Cruz to Buenos Aires!

You
have died with the white robe, for, as well as suede gloves, long
and wrinkled, on thin, nervous arm of Sarah Bernhardt has given his
brushwork to Frou-Frou, and the white robe with blue belt, made you,
Lola made the prototype of all women of your time!

What the devil! You have had your own place in the century of Hernani! ... Presidents and ministers,
generals and great lawyers of Argentina, have believed in you as the Republic had believed
in them! Your octosyllabic murmuring stirred over night chest of the Virgin and the theater was
not just your domain! It was also the family, home, for all assailed him from the room of my Aunt
Medea to the Academy of blacks and mulattoes was my brown hawk Alejandro. I still remember
the gesture scandalously irreverent Voltaire Dr. Velez that mocked you one night, giving discordant
note in all your generation literature. I argue and argue as long as you have done to many of
our poets: and enough to reflect a bit to notice that every social event seemed you in those
days.

Phone lines became classics. Gravely cited in the editorial by journalists contemporaries and
the Chamber of Deputies for novice speakers with the same respect that in citing the statistical
restoration of Boileau.

The day of the country belonged to you; you all owned the day a national holiday! Until you patriotic
drama made by the author of your life without knowing it!

Some of your phrases as: "Do you have your sword tip?" Were enshrined as the Di quella pyre and
the donna e mobile from Verdi.

There was so realistic, Mr. Pickwick had not crossed the Atlantic, was presiding over his club
Bath, Nana was a microbe; Artagnan was professor of history, the Girondins taught politics.
It was the time of the Cavatina, cracked rudimentary accompaniments; Lohengrin drinking glasses
emblazoned Moselle in Bavaria, the Troubadour was the opera and Tamberlick Mirati, you were the drama
with Rodriguez and Bigon, with Love and Vilardebó. Theatre de la Victoria was your field!

Oh, my good and brave comedians that night were all!

My imagination conjures up, parade Sleep like the ghosts of the past and enter the dark and forgotten
pantheon of glory Argentine art, there I will get up a monument with the remains of wardrobe Dagnino,
they had everything, forming the base hull Gonzalo de Cordoba, covered by the blanket wool mottled
ermine Isabel the Catholic, Don Juan Tenorio vola on Earthquake Martinique while Almudaina Bell
plays the alarm by hanging of the steps of a gallows.

But on this pyramidal tomb, built at the Talma and Keen of the large village, three figures rise:
Lola, Diego and the Marquis, singing the national anthem prior to having their naive poem of
jealousy and love to a room full, where the most beautiful women shine of those days. Come in,
oh shadows!

       

* * * * *

We occupied a stage-right balcony, that old beam immediately bleached supporting the roof and
its thickness defied the forces of Samson himself.

My aunt had been accompanied by Miss Fernanda, I was accustomed to seeing frequently at home.
Fernanda was eighteen years old, pale, clear eyes and big, cold and as bewildered among the dense shaded
circles that, in his thick lips that drew a mouth that could be called great without injustice, trazábase
not know what vague smile on a shrewd observer would have found love and contempt together in a consortium
inexplicable; the head was noble and proud, however. At that time, which was an epic hairstyles
of rollers and stuffed his Fernanda had such a simple, bordering on great elegance: her hair, a
blond mate, collected and held by two strips of blue Moiree, were to finish in the most beautiful
woman's neck. His little heart, had, however, I do not know how appealing seduction, dilated by
the softness around her bust, that grace her face radiated apathetic indolent the brush of Veronese
printed on the face of Venetian patrician. Was in short, that woman a set of coldness and
eloquence, beauty and flaws that irresistibly attracted, and the
originality of gesture and look aroused in me a deep and greedy curiosity.

Fernanda,

leaning over the railing, standing hear the anthem, and when he finished, he left carelessly dropped
on his chair and opened her huge white feather fan, with a flourish full of innate sensuality.
What a contrast was that delicate creature with my aunt Medea! A distinction was personified,
the wrapping, the steam perfumed elegance an and good tone. The other was a faun obese, his
voice thick, its short neck, his chest invasive a mighty mustache, mustache was already almost,
made it a chimera, in which both sexes blur. That night was truly studded with diamonds from
head to fingers, and as it had, and very good, one of their pride was hung for display.

Restless and talkative, kept a real telegram of greetings to the entire theater with the boxes,
with the bowl, with the audience, everyone knew everyone greeted francachonamente with the fan.

Suddenly,
a murmur of sympathy spread throughout the entire room and all eyes
converged the central stage of the facet: many characters, dressed
in the strictest etiquette, taking seat.

My aunt began to name them all.

- Saluda, Ramon, compliments - I
told my uncle.

- If you come here, Medea ...

- Yes you are, greet
you say - and my aunt, at the same time ordering him to my uncle who
salute, was repeated head movements towards the central stage, without
being noticed by their occupants.

- Who are they, madam? - Asked
Fernanda.

But my aunt did not answer, determined to put your greeting in the
faces of their idols and that her husband also places him physically
shot it the arm and told him to wait for the occasion propitious to
move the neck.

Suddenly it seemed that they looked.

- That looks don Buenaventura!

There you see the doctor told Trevexo ...--, - now!

... greets, Ramón.

They both nodded urgently, made her a visual balance to hunt the adversary,
but oh, mishap!

A look vague and indecisive, which I had a vague idea, crossed the
line of the boxes without stopping at my aunt's brilliant, and greeting
was a greeting in a vacuum.

My uncle coughed to hide the disappointment. My aunt put the blame, claiming that he had taken the
lead, my uncle wanted to rectify, but was ordered to be silent, and
obeyed.

 The other roc, to our misfortune, threw the stone so
exactly upon the middle of the ship that it split into a thousand pieces. The mariners and
passengers were all killed by the stone, or sunk. I overcame that difficulty however, and got
ashore.

I sat down upon the grass, to recover myself a little from my fatigue, after which I got up,
and went into the island to view it. It seemed to be a delicious garden. I found trees everywhere,
some of them bearing green and others ripe fruits, and streams of fresh pure water, with pleasant
windings and turnings. I ate of the fruits, which I found excellent, and drank of the water,
which was very pleasant.

Night being come, I lay down upon the grass in a convenient place enough, but I could not sleep
for an hour at a time, my mind was so disturbed with the fear of being alone in so desert a
place. Thus I spent the best part of the night in fretting, and reproached myself for my imprudence
in not staying at home, rather than undertaking this last voyage. These reflections carried
me so far, that I began to form a design against my own life, but daylight dispersed these
melancholy thoughts, and I got up, and walked among the trees, but not without apprehensions
of danger.

When I was a little advanced into the island, I saw an old man who appeared very weak and feeble.
He sat upon the bank of a stream, and at first I took him to be one who had been shipwrecked
like myself. I went towards him and saluted him, but he only bowed his head a little. I asked
him what he did there, but instead of answering he made a sign for me to take him upon my back
and carry him over the brook, signifying that it was to gather fruit.

Notwithstanding my fainting, the ill-natured old fellow kept fast about my neck, but opened
his legs a little to give me time to recover my breath. When I had done so, he thrust one of
his feet against my stomach, and struck me so rudely on the side with the other, that he forced
me to rise up against my will. Having got up, he made me walk under the trees, and forced me
now and then to stop, to gather and eat fruit such as we found. You may judge then what trouble
I was in, to be loaded with such a burden as I could by no means rid myself of.

The old man, perceiving the effect which this drink had upon me, and that I carried him with
more ease than I did before, made a sign for me to give him some of it. I gave him the calabash,
and the liquor pleasing his palate, he drank it all off. He became drunk immediately, and the
fumes getting up into his head he began to sing after his manner, and to dance upon my shoulders.

I was extremely rejoiced to be freed thus for ever from this cursed old fellow, and walked
along the shore of the sea, where I met the crew of a ship that had cast anchor to take in
water to refresh themselves. They were extremely surprised to see me, and to hear the particulars
of my adventures. 'You fell,' said they, 'into the hands of the old man of the sea, and are
the first that has ever escaped strangling by him. He never left those he had once made himself
master of till he destroyed them, and he has made this island famous for the number of men
he has slain; so that the merchants and mariners who landed upon it dared not advance into
the island but in numbers together.'

After having informed me of these things they carried me with them to the ship; the captain
received me with great satisfaction when they told him what had befallen me. He put out again
to sea, and after some days' sail we arrived at the harbour of a great city, where the houses
were built of good stone.

One of the merchants of the ship, who had taken me into his friendship, asked me to go along
with him, and took me to a place appointed as a retreat for foreign merchants. He gave me a
great bag, and having recommended me to some people of the town, who were used to gather cocoa-nuts,
he desired them to take me with them to do the like: 'Go,' said he, 'follow them, and do as
you see them do, and do not separate from them, otherwise you endanger your life.' Having thus
spoken, he gave me provisions for the journey, and I went with them.

We came to a great forest of trees, extremely straight and tall, their trunks so smooth that
it was not possible for any man to climb up to the branches that bore the fruit. All the trees
were cocoa-nut trees, and when we entered the forest we saw a great number of apes of all sizes,
that fled as soon as they perceived us, and climbed up to the top of the trees with surprising
swiftness.

The merchants with whom I was gathered stones, and threw them at the apes on the top of the
trees. I did the same, and the apes, out of revenge, threw cocoa-nuts at us as fast and with
such gestures as sufficiently testified their anger and resentment: we gathered up the cocoa-nuts,
and from time to time threw stones to provoke the apes; so that by this stratagem we filled
our bags with cocoa- nuts, which it had been impossible for us to do otherwise.

When we had gathered our number, we returned to the city, where the merchant who sent me to
the forest gave me the value of the cocoa- nuts I had brought; 'Go on,' said he, 'and do the
like every day, until you have money enough to carry you home.' I thanked him for his good
advice, and gathered together as many cocoa-nuts as amounted to a considerable sum.

The vessel in which I came sailed with merchants who loaded her with cocoa-nuts. I expected
the arrival of another, whose merchants landed speedily for the like loading. I embarked on
board the same all the cocoa-nuts that belonged to me, and when she was ready to sail I went
and took leave of the merchant who had been so kind to me; but he could not embark with me
because he had not finished his business.

We set sail towards the islands where pepper grows in great plenty. From thence we went to
the Isle of Comari, where the best sort of wood of aloes grows, and whose inhabitants have
made it an inviolable law to drink no wine themselves, nor to suffer any kind of improper conduct.
I exchanged my cocoa-nuts in those two islands for pepper and wood of aloes, and went with
other merchants pearl- fishing. I hired divers, who fetched me up those that were very large
and pure. Then I embarked joyfully in a vessel that happily arrived at Balsora; from thence
I returned to Bagdad, where I made vast sums by my pepper, wood of aloes, and pearls. I gave
the tenth of my gains in alms, as I had done upon my return from other voyages, and endeavoured
to ease myself from my fatigue by diversions of all sorts.

              THE SIXTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD THE SAILOR. 

Far from being a horrible monster, but with all the majesty of God who was near, and with all the
hubris of those who aspired to defeat him, far from being a revolutionary titanic almost anti-God
and the Satan of Milton, just really bad. Is a rascal, a Galopin, bufonzuelo and a little more.
The Eternal Father confesses that he hates him, he tolerates and until have fun with it. Instead
of believing harmful, it is considered useful for men, which they would turn to sleep and not
do anything memorable or poetic, if not surrender to the devil frequency. Mephistopheles, like
God, like to hear his epigrams and jokes and he employs in his plans to promote high human activity,
anda good terms with God, usually do visits, and leave very happy that God treated with courtesy
and confidence.

As seen, the poet is bad for our bad guy and is subordinated to the good which concurs, in spite
of himself. So Mephistopheles is the devil child.

Although known and may well, is in a relatively lowly position in the hierarchy of spirits.

Goethe was discerned that God includes top of nature, and filling and infusing all in her the
beauty and life. For this or anything else you need to ministers, but it is richer , and magnificence
them, and so are spirits, minds and spirits, about monads powerful, united by bonds of divine
love, that create, move and change worlds and how in them. Any of these geniuses and can be worth
a thousand times more than Lucifer and all its hell. It is the genius of the Universe, the Macrocosm
is the Spirit which appears Faust. He who gives in to his recall and he appears is only the spirit
of our small planet. And yet this spirit is so superior, so inadequate to the weakness of the
spirit more brave and courageous man, Faust, to sit, terrified, is
about to die and recognizes that it can enter into relationship with
him. Whereas in all other places rivers
run from their channels into the sea, here a great river of fresh water runs out of the sea
into a dark cave, whose entrance is very high and large. What is most remarkable in this place
is that the stones of the mountain are of crystal, rubies, or other precious stones. Here is
also a sort of fountain of pitch or bitumen, that runs into the sea, which the fishes swallow,
and then vomit up again, turned into ambergris; and this the waves throw up on the beach in
great quantities. Here also grow trees, most of which are wood of aloes, equal in goodness
to those of Comari.

To finish the description of this place, which may well be called a gulf, since nothing ever
returns from it--it is not possible for ships to get away again when once they come near it.
If they are driven thither by a wind from the sea, the wind and the current ruin them; and
if they come into it when a land-wind blows, which might seem to favour their getting out again,
the height of the mountain stops the wind, and occasions a calm, so that the force of the current
runs them ashore, where they are broken to pieces, as ours was; and that which completes the
misfortune is that there is no possibility to get to the top of the mountain, or to get out
any manner of way.

We continued upon the shore, like men out of their senses, and expected death every day. At
first we divided our provisions as equally as we could, and thus everyone lived a longer or
shorter time, according to their temperance, and the use they made of their provisions.

Those who died first were interred by the rest; and, for my part, I paid the last duty to all
my companions. 

II

- In vain I waited, my son, make you a paragon of holiness and
patience, that over time you became my successor in the government
of the abbey.

I know everything that happened and I dare not to blame. The affront that you have done was difficult,
almost impossible to tolerate. Is seen, God does not love you for the contemplative life.
Is also impossible for you to stay and not an hour in this holy house, where a scandal has promoted
fierce, but excusable. Moreover, the young man whom he fought is powerful by birth and wealth
and you you can not go on living where he is. I have no other recourse than to force you to leave
immediately from the abbey. But do not go out without wearing helpless and my affection for
you. The abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this
bag full of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my harnessed the best
horses in our stables there. Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding
tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said goodbye to Plácido the abbot and he
embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and trail just trite, who was meandering
along the banks of a stream, between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim.

In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido thousand ideas. The childhood memories arose in his
mind with unusual clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another nursing home and toughness severely sick
different. From his childhood, from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories grew
up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the mountain. The Castle was
at a height near the coast. From there, now leaving D. Fruela with good shot people on horseback
to penetrate and cut Moorish lands and plunder as he could, now embarked its satellites in
some whips and galleys of his property, and was to hack or hunt to more cruel pirates who infested
those seas and invaded and ravaged often coasts of Spain, were idolaters
Norman of Norway and the last Tule. All this
while I ate nothing but what was just necessary to support nature; yet, notwithstanding this
frugality, all my provisions were spent. Then a pleasing sleep fell upon me. We saw something
floating upon the water, went speedily to find out what it was, and perceiving your raft, one
of us swam into the river, and brought it hither, where we fastened it, as you see, until you
should awake. Pray tell us your history, for it must be extraordinary; how did you venture
into this river, and whence did you come?'

I begged of them first to give me something to eat, and then I would satisfy their curiosity.
They gave me several sorts of food; and when I had satisfied my hunger, I gave them a true
account of all that had befallen me, which they listened to with wonder. 

Not this time or this site to the biography of Lucio Vicente Lopez, who - for be exact - would
step comprising a whole period of our political history, the their performance so closely linked.
 I told them I was ready to do whatever they pleased.

They immediately sent for a horse, which was brought in a little time; and having made me get
upon him, some of them walked before me to show me the way, and the rest took my raft and cargo,
and followed me.

We marched thus altogether, till we came to the city of Serendib, for it was in that island
I landed. The blacks presented me to their king; I approached his throne, and saluted him as
I used to do the kings of the Indies; that is to say, I prostrated myself at his feet, and
kissed the earth. The prince ordered me to rise up, received me with an obliging air, and made
me come up, and sit down near him. He first asked me my name, and I answered, 'They call me
Sinbad the sailor, because of the many voyages I have undertaken, and I am a citizen of Baghdad.'

'But,' replied he, 'how came you into my dominions, and from whence came you last?'

I concealed nothing from the king; I told him all that I have now told you, and his majesty
was so surprised and charmed with it, that he commanded my adventure to be written in letters
of gold, and laid up in the archives of his kingdom. At last my raft was brought in, and the
bales opened in his presence: he admired the quantity of wood of aloes and ambergris; but,
above all, the rubies and emeralds, for he had none in his treasury that came near them.

Observing that he looked on my jewels with pleasure, and viewed the most remarkable among them
one after another, I fell prostrate at his feet, and took the liberty to say to him, 'Sir,
not only my person is at your majesty's service, but the cargo of the raft, and I would beg
of you to dispose of it as your own.'

He answered me with a smile, 'Sinbad, I will take care not to covet anything of yours, nor
to take anything from you that God has given you; far from lessening your wealth, I design
to augment it, and will not let you go out of my dominions without marks of my liberality.'

All the answer I returned was prayers for the prosperity of this prince, and commendations
of his generosity and bounty. The extension considered in us is an idea and a primary fact.

CHAPTER III. Scientific fruitfulness of the idea of ​​extension.

Four propositions. It is the basis of geometry.

Natural sciences. It is necessary to measures. Evidence and examples. Simplicity of the idea of
​​extension.

CHAPTER IV. Reality extension.

This reality is necessary, if not to destroy the reality of the outside
world.

Reality the extension and geometry.

CHAPTER V. The geometric accuracy made in nature.

The reality is geometric. Tests. Examination of two minds about the divisibility of matter. The
same result both cases.

CHAPTER VI. Clarifications on extension.

The extension and bodies. More clarification on the inseparability
of these two ideas.

If know the essence of the extension.

CHAPTER VII. Space-anything.

Importance of questions about space. Great difficulties. This raises
the question.

There is nothing in the distance.

Reasons against those who support them, denying the reality space.

CHAPTER VIII. Review of Descartes and Leibniz on space.

Doctrine of Descartes. Contestation. Doctrine of Leibnitz.

A remark on it.

Invalidity of an argument that he contends.

Real trouble against.

CHAPTER X. Opinion of those who believe that space is the immensity of God.

Clarke doctrine. Contestation.

Dangerous consequences. Newton. Review of Leibnitz.

A observation.

CHAPTER XI.

Review of Fenelon.

A remarkable passage. A doctrine of theologians on the perfections
of God.

It examines Fenelon doctrine. Is inadmissible. Doubt about the true meaning of his words.

CHAPTER XII. It explains what the space.

Analysis of the generation of the idea. Some propositions summarizing the doctrine. Uncertainty
inseparable from these materials.

CHAPTER XIII. New challenges.

The extent and location. What is change of place. A single body can
not move.

Movement is essentially relative.

Priori demonstration of the impossibility of certain figures in a single body. A perfect geometric
surface.

CHAPTER XIV. An important consequence.

Priori demonstration of universal gravitation.

Not sufficient to explain the existence of movement, and its regularity.

CHAPTER XV. Illusion of fixed points in space.

It examines the fixity of the four cardinal points. All situations
are a related ideas.

If God could give to a single body movement. Explanation. Vacuum.
Opinion Descartes and Leibnitz. Benefits to include the idea of ​​space
in the extension abstract or generalized.

CHAPTER XVI. Comments on
the opinion of Kant.

Doctrine of this philosopher. Confusion of ideas.
He made the discovery that it contained. Tests. We must not confuse
the imagination of space with his idea. Limits of these two things.
Examples.

Their tendencies to idealism. System gives rise to Fichte.
Kant in contradiction with some of his disciples on idealism.

CHAPTER
XVIII. The problem of sensory experience.

What is the problem of
experience. Five issues of the Transcendental Aesthetic. Resolve the
first four. This raises the final.

CHAPTER XIX. Considerations on
the abstracted extension of phenomena.

The extension is not one of
the things that enter the extended thing. Analysis of the extension.
What is continuity. Uselessness of the definitions used to explain
that. The phenomenal extension and geometric extension. Conjecture.
Doctrine of St. Thomas on sensible representations.

CHAPTER XX. If
absolute magnitudes.

Considerations on the fixity of the measures.
Range of vision. Microscopic eyes. Futility of touch to a fixed size.
Example. Agreement of art and science.

CHAPTER XXI. Pure intelligibility
vast world. 

The reality and appearances. What is the corporeal world
in the eyes of a pure spirit. Two geometries. The pure and the empirical.
Pure geometry is separable from sensible. What is extension is stripped
of all sensitive. Why we find it difficult to conceive of intelligibility
pure corporeal world. Failure geometry. Necessity of metaphysics.
Failure of philosophy that reduces the world to movements and figures.

CHAPTER
XXII. Infinite divisibility.

Counter-arguments. The body of mathematical
and natural body. Failure of this distinction to resolve the difficulty.

CHAPTER
XXIII. Unextended points.

Two opposing arguments. Towards one based
on mathematical considerations. Reply. Non-subsistence which is based
on the parity of the number generated by the unit.

CHAPTER XXIV.
A conjecture on the transcendental notion of the extension.

A mistake
that is suffered in the investigations into the first elements of
the extension. You have nothing to
do but to go to the Isle of Serendib, and deliver the commission which I give you. After that
you are at liberty to return. But you must go; for you know it would be indecent, and not suitable
to my dignity, to be indebted to the king of that island.' Perceiving that the caliph insisted
upon it, I submitted, and told him that I was willing to obey. He was very well pleased at
it, and ordered me a thousand sequins for the expense of my journey.

I prepared for my departure in a few days, and as soon as the caliph's letter and present were
delivered to me, I went to Balsora, where I embarked, and had a very happy voyage. I arrived
at the Isle of Serendib, where I acquainted the king's ministers with my commission, and prayed
them to get me speedy audience. They did so, and I was conducted to the palace in an honourable
manner, where I saluted the king by prostration, according to custom. That prince knew me immediately,
and testified very great joy to see me. 'O Sinbad,' said he, 'you are welcome; I swear to you
I have many times thought of you since you went hence; I bless the day upon which we see one
another once more.' I made my compliment to him, and after having thanked him for his kindness
to me, I delivered the caliph's letter and present, which he received with all imaginable satisfaction.
He sent him also a rich table, which, according to tradition, belonged to the great Solomon.
The caliph's letter was as follows:

 'Greeting in the name of the Sovereign Guide of the Right Way, to
the potent and happy Sultan, from Abdallah Haroun Alraschid, whom
God hath set in the place of honour, after his ancestors of happy
memory:

'We received your letter with joy, and send you this from the council of our port, the garden
of superior wits. We hope, when you look upon it, you will find our good intention, and be
pleased with it. Farewell.'

The King of Serendib was highly pleased that the caliph returned his friendship. A little time
after this audience, I solicited leave to depart, and had much difficulty to obtain it. I obtained
it, however, at last, and the king, when he dismissed me, made me a very considerable present.
Some of the crew offered resistance, which cost them their lives. But as for me and the rest,
who were not so imprudent, the pirates saved us on purpose to make slaves of us.

We were all stripped, and instead of our own clothes they gave us sorry rags, and carried us
into a remote island, where they sold us.

I fell into the hands of a rich merchant, who, as soon as he bought me, carried me to his house,
treated me well, and clad me handsomely for a slave. Some days after, not knowing who I was,
he asked me if I understood any trade. I answered that I was no mechanic, but a merchant, and
that the pirates who sold me had robbed me of all I had.

'But tell me,' replied he, 'can you shoot with a bow?'

I answered that the bow was one of my exercises in my youth, and I had not yet forgotten it.
Then he gave me a bow and arrows, and, taking me behind him upon an elephant, carried me to
a vast forest some leagues from the town. We went a great way into the forest, and where he
thought fit to stop he bade me alight; then showing me a great tree, 'Climb up that tree,'
said he, 'and shoot at the elephants as you see them pass by, for there is a prodigious number
of them in this forest, and, if any of them fall, come and give me notice of it.' Having spoken
thus, he left me victuals, and returned to the town, and I continued upon the tree all night.

I saw no elephant during that time, but next morning, as soon as the sun was up, I saw a great
number: I shot several arrows among them, and at last one of the elephants fell; the rest retired
immediately, and left me at liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my booty. When I had
told him the news, he gave me a good meal, commended my dexterity, and caressed me highly. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However Enganabanle
appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use microscopes.

CHAPTER
VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as the
organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential
to consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something
equivalent to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought not,
little does, which were falling in love? ? Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying
a word, or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a syllogism?
My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries. I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe or deny any
thing, try to look these insects, and runs later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered, and
drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what one of her thumb made the point a kind
of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an ear, the circumference funnel took the
ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers were introduced circular one, so that,
through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well the buzz of our insects abaxo
here, and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding after the French. So
did the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers, on hearing about
quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes that he was
dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf is
feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without being
overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very
tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his
knees and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all
these precautions and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator
is pleased to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because
impenetrable secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but I despise anyone,
and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable
to hit upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors,
and forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon who was
speaking to them. I stayed with him until the monsoon; and during that time
we made so many journeys to the hill that we filled all our warehouses with ivory. The other
merchants who traded in it did the same thing, for it could not be long concealed from them.

The ships arrived at last, and my patron himself having made choice of the ship wherein I was
to embark, he loaded half of it with ivory on my account, laid in provisions in abundance for
my passage, and obliged me besides to accept as a present, curiosities of the country of great
value. After I had returned him a thousand thanks for all his favours, I went on board. We
set sail, and as the adventure which procured me this liberty was very extraordinary, I had
it continually in my thoughts.

We stopped at some islands to take in fresh provisions. Our vessel being come to a port on
the main land in the Indies, we touched there, and not being willing to venture by sea to Balsora,
I landed my proportion of the ivory, resolving to proceed on my journey by land. 

When he entered the courtyard of the Hospital, the Tartaneros jumped from his seat, and stroking her
horse waited in vain to come down that pair of drunks.

Was to open, and saw that the stirrup iron wires slid blood.

- Help! Help! - Opening shouted at once.

Light came on inside the
trap. Blood everywhere. One on the floor with head near the door.
The other fell on the sidewalk with the knife and paper-white face
chewed. That prince told me he had been uneasy,
by reason that I was so long in returning, but that he always hoped God would preserve me.
When I told him the adventure of the elephants, he seemed to be much surprised at it, and would
never have given any credit to it had he not known my sincerity. He reckoned this story, and
the other narratives I had given him, to be so curious that he ordered one of his secretaries
to write them in characters of gold, and lay them up in his treasury. Had entered his service when he still lived with Ernestina, was the eternal witness
of his adventures he was faithful and obedient, in all the raids of her widowhood, but I thought
with envy over the past days, staying up all night wanting less.