If the cabinetry of New England is a digression, it is perhaps excusable on the ground of its
close connection with the crewel work of New England, of which we are treating, and to which
we shall have something of a sense of novelty in returning, since at least the complexion of
our colonial embroidery has experienced a change. The color of his face was terrible, American color, tint fever
and fatigue in the hot humidity of the Mexican Gulf, trademark or logo of the apostolate settler, life
and health of so many noble workers, is carving the powerful Future civilizations Hispanic-American
world.

Knight always saw a strong physical constitution, half in bitter struggles with losing Nature
and man, a strong evidence billion spent on health, a beautiful toast
the sun. This was the fortune of the "blue-and-white," which not only created a style, but has
achieved persistence and has broken out in revivals all along the history of American embroidery.
It has been somewhat identified with domestic weaving, for the loom has always been a member
of the New England family, the great home-built loom, standing in the far end of the kitchen,
capable of divers miracles of creation between dawn and sunset.

On this much-to-be-prized background of homespun linen the different shades of indigo blue
could be, and were, very effectively used, and it is worthy of note that it repeated the simple
contrasts of the Canton china or the "blue Canton" which were the prized gifts brought to their
families by the returning New England seamen in the profitable "India trade," which soon became
a commercial fact.

"Blue-and-white" had at first been evolved by tight-bound circumstances. Excellent practice
in shades of blue had given it a certified place in the embroidery art of America, but we do
not find it in collections of old English embroidery. It is one of the small monuments which
mark the path of the woman colonist, narrowed by circumstances, which created a recognized
style. It is not to be wondered at that blue-and-white crewelwork made a place for itself in
the history of embroidery which was a permanent one. The circumstances of Puritan life being
so simple and direct would induce a corresponding simplicity of taste, and simplicity is apt
to seize upon first principles.

Every colorist knows that strong but peaceful contrast is one of the first laws of color arrangement,
and the unconscious yoking of white and blue placed one of the strongest color notes against
unprotesting and receptive white. This made a new manner or style of embroidery. Its permanence
may have been influenced by the art of one of the oldest peoples of the world, and as we have
said, the prevalence of Canton china upon the dressers and filling the mantel closets and serving
the tables of the rich, was beginning to appear in all houses of growing prosperity, even where
pewter ware and dishes carved from wood still held the place of actual service.

The Puritan housewife could arrange her grades of blue according to the Chinese colors of this
oldest domestic art of the world, and be correspondingly happy in the result. Chinese design,
however, had no influence in the growing practice of embroidery, and here also an instinctive
law prevailed. She recognized that even the highly artificial landscape art of her idolized
plates would not suit the flexible and broken surfaces of her equally cherished linen, or the
surroundings of her life.

It was small wonder that this became a favorite style of embroidery and has in it the seeds
of permanence. A table setting of snow-white or cream-white homespun, scalloped and embroidered
in lines of blue crewels, shining with the precious Canton blue, was, and would be even at
this day, a thing to admire.

The first deviation from the habitual crewelwork is to be found in the "blue-and-white," for
although the same stitch was employed, it was more often in outline than solid. The designs
were sketches instead of "patterns" as had formerly been the case. Although this variety of
work comes under the head of colonial crewelwork, there was in it the beginning of the changes
and variety effected by differing circumstances and influences--those vital circumstances which
leave their traces constantly along the history of needlework. It was owing to various reasons
that outline embroidery largely took the place of solid crewelwork.

The question of design must have been a rather difficult one, as there were no designs, and
almost no sources of design for needlework, and at this stage of the art in New England original
design seems not to have suggested itself. It would certainly have been quite natural to have
copied pine trees and broken outlines of hills, but as this class of embroidery was almost
entirely used for hangings and decorative furnishings, the Pilgrim mothers seem to have had
an instinctive sense that such design was incongruous. Consequently they copied English models.
We find designs of crewelwork of the period in English museums identically the same as in the
New England work, thorned roses and voluminously doubled pinks, held together in borders of
long curved lines or scattered at regular intervals in groups and bunches. And he did not tell him that Rita was not without some
enredillo .... About Carmen and Manolita not need reason, well see what was happening. But Rita
....

No close friend Don Pedro was in Santiago, although several known, earned in the walk in the house
of his uncle or the Casino, where I used to go tomorrow night and, by dint of good Spanish
idle. There he was teased a lot with his cousin, talking also unreasonable passion Carmen
by the student and continued perch on the veranda, with the worshiper bet front. Always on,
the gentleman studying the tone and accent with which they named Rita. In two or three times he
seemed to sense a touch of irony, and perhaps not wrong, because in small towns where no event
is forgotten or erased, which perpetually turns conversation on these issues, which bulges the trivial
and serious takes on proportions epic, often has a girl lost to fame before honor, and minor indiscretions,
glossed and censored for years and years, leading to its author with palm to the grave. In addition,
girls of Lage, for his ancestry, by the fumes of his aristocratic father, and the kind of halo
that sought to surround them, their beauty, were the target of many envidillas and gossip: when they
are not accused of being proud, they resorted to condemn it as flirty.

Lucia Casino between his battered sofa unfurnished an outmoded percha, gala Cabinet Reading:
sofa gallery might be called slanderers, for there they met three of the most sharp scissors have
cut tunics in the world, worthy of more detailed triumvirate sketch and which towered an eminent
character, master of the science of evil knowledge. Scholars and pride themselves on not ignore
the least particularly concerning remote historical times, this guy was bragging to say, without
missing point or comma what income they enjoyed, what they ate, what they said and even what they
thought the twenty viso or thirty families that enclosed the compound of Santiago. Man was
to deliver with great formality and great rest:

- Yesterday, Lage
house have been put on the table two principles: croquettes and stewed
meat.

The salad was cauliflower, and desserts are served quince jelly of the nuns.

Verifying the accuracy of such details, were strictly true.

As well informed guy got more suspicious light in the mind of Mr. suspicious de Ulloa, it being
sufficient a few little words, the kind that taken at face value have no malice, but seen against
the light can mean everything .... Commending the Rita salt shaker, and the beauty of Rita, and
good body conformation anatomical Rita he said casually:

- It's
a girl .... the first order And here you would hardly boyfriend.

Girls for Rita style always find their soulmate in an outsider.

-XI-

One month before Don Manuel Pardo asked himself: "When the boy
is determined Rita asking me?

".

Who would ask, did not hesitate a moment. The situation of the Marquis in the house was tacitly the
groom accepted. The friends of the family were allowed Lage overt allusions to the upcoming wedding,
the servants in the kitchen, and calculated how much amount the propineja Bridal. When collected,
her sisters Rita gave rattle. A fraternity laugh all the time with his cousin and a burst of
youthful joy bartered the ancient sprawling home aviary.

Headed an afternoon nap the Marquis, came knocking at the door with a big clap. Opened: it was Rita,
blouse with a silk scarf tied to the gigs, wearing her beautiful
throat discovered. It was certainly a proper distinction, as the flat of
crewel was not capable of shadow and was more inherently a part of the textile, as much so,
indeed, as a stamped or woven decoration would have been.

It was not long before the over-and-over stitch demanded silks and flosses instead of crewels
for its exercise, and silk or satin for the background of its exploits. There were satin bags
covered with the most delicate stitchery, and black silk aprons with wreaths of myrtle done
with silks or flosses, and, finally, satin pelerines exquisitely embroidered in designs of
carefully shaded roses. Although nothing remarkable or epoch-making happened in the art of
embroidery, it retained an even more than respectable existence. The skill, taste, and love
for the creation of beauty, which were the heritage of the race, were kept alive.

CHAPTER III -- SAMPLERS AND A WORD ABOUT QUILTS

A chapter upon Samplers, by right, should precede the discussion of colonial embroidery, although
the practice of mothers in crewelwork was simultaneous with it. Is it OK and
the tie? Go a few niceties. Marvel's what I say: I lived fifteen years without seeing a mirror,
or whatever it is, without seeing the face and not knowing how I am.

- Jesus, what a man ... And finally one day and said you looked like
Caspe: "Other than God, I know that face ...».

Do you hear, Amparo?

They both laughed.

Agustin Caballero was no longer young, but without
the fatigue and toil of a hard life party were over the years in physical
decline, expressing his face. The loving pride of the mother
in the child's accomplishment also tended to the care and preservation of the first work of
the small hands. Others were left spellbound watching her sweet and ineffable smile, and then Julian always
remember the images of the Virgin Mother, stunned her miraculous motherhood. More love the
quiet moments were brief, and continuing the startle, painful tenderness.
 My box held a tiny thimble and spools of green and red
sewing silk, and I tucked it under alternate knees for safety.

