TIME AND LIFE* MR. DARWIN'S "ORIGIN OF SPECIES"

by Thomas H. Huxley

    [footnote] *"Macmillan's Magazine", December 1859.

EVERYONE knows that that superficial film of the earth's substance, hardly ten miles thick,
which is accessible to human investigation, is composed for the most part of beds or strata
of stone, the consolidated muds and sands of former seas and lakes, which have been deposited
one upon the other, and hence are the older the deeper they lie.  These multitudinous strata
present such resemblances and differences among themselves that they are capable of classification
into groups or formations, and these formations again are brigaded together into still larger
assemblages, called by the older geologists, primary, secondary, and tertiary; by the moderns,
palaeozoic, mesozoic, and cainozoic: the basis of the former nomenclature being the relative
age of the groups of strata; that of the latter, the kinds of living forms contained in them.

Though but a film if compared with the total diameter of our planet, the total series of formations
is vast indeed when measured by any human standard, and, as all action implies time, so are
we compelled to regard these mineral masses as a measure of the time which has elapsed during
their accumulation.  The amount of the time which they represent is, of course, in the inverse
proportion of the intensity of the forces which have been in operation.  If, in the ancient
world, mud and sand accumulated on sea-bottoms at tenfold their present rate, it is clear that
a bed of mud or sand ten feet thick would have been formed then in the same time as a stratum
of similar materials one foot thick would be formed now, and 'vice versa'.

At the outset of his studies, therefore, the physical geologist had to choose between two hypotheses;
either, throughout the ages which are represented by the accumulated strata, and which we may
call 'geologic time', the forces of nature have operated with much same average intensity as
at present, and hence the lapse of time which they represent must be something prodigious and
inconceivable, or, in the primeval epochs, the natural powers were infinitely more intense
than now, and hence the time through which they acted to produce the effects we see was comparatively
short.

The earlier geologists adopted the latter view almost with one consent. For they had little
knowledge of the present workings of nature, and they read the records of geologic time as
a child reads the history of Rome or Greece, and fancies that antiquity was grand, heroic,
and unlike the present because it is unlike his little experience of the present.

Even so the earlier observers were moved with wonder at the seeming contrast between the ancient
and the present order of nature.  The elemental forces seemed to have been grander and more
energetic in primeval times.  Upheaved and contorted, rifted and fissured, pierced by dykes
of molten matter or worn away over vast areas by aqueous action, the older rocks appeared to
bear witness to a state of things far different from that exhibited by the peaceful epoch on
which the lot of man has fallen.

But by degrees thoughtful students of geology have been led to perceive that the earliest efforts
of nature have been by no means the grandest.  Alps and Andes are children of yesterday when
compared with Snowdon and the Cumberland hills; and the so-called glacial epoch--that in which
perhaps the most extensive physical changes of which any record remaining occurred--is the
last and the newest of the revolutions of the globe.  And in proportion as physical geography--which
is the geology of our own epoch--has grown into a science, and the present order of nature
has been ransacked to find what, 'hibernice', we may call precedents for the phenomena of the
past, so the apparent necessity of supposing the past to be widely different from the present
has diminished.

The transporting power of the greatest deluge which can be imagined sinks into insignificance
beside that of the slowly floating, slowly melting iceberg, or the glacier creeping along at
its snail's pace of a yard a day.  The study of the deltas of the Nile, the Ganges, and the
Mississippi has taught us how slow is the wearing action of water, how vast its effects when
time is allowed for its operation.  The reefs of the Pacific, the deep-sea soundings of the
Atlantic, show that it is to the slow-growing coral and to the imperceptible animalcule, which
lives its brief space and then adds its tiny shell to the muddy cairn left by its brethren
and ancestors, that we must look as the agents in the formation of limestone and chalk, and
not to hypothetical oceans saturated with calcareous salts and suddenly depositing them.

And while the inquirer has thus learnt that existing forces--'give them time'--are competent
to produce all the physical phenomena we meet with in the rocks, so, on the other side, the
study of the marks left in the ancient strata by past physical actions shows that these were
similar to those which now obtain.  Ancient beaches are met with whose pebbles are like those
found on modern shores; the hardened sea-sands of the oldest epochs show ripple-marks, such
as may now be found on every sandy coast; nay, more, the pits left by ancient rain-drops prove
that even in the very earliest ages, the "bow in the clouds" must have adorned the palaeozoic
firmament. [7-2] "among the medieval literatures of Metal, that of Iceland is secluded in the
profuseness of detail with which the case of ordinary ghetto are cognize, and the clarity with which
the individual texture of numberless nominal organism support out from the historic scene.... the European
of the Saga-property were not a unrivalled og-participate campaign; they
were untiring in their Dieserud to learn all that could be center of
the farmplace round about them, and it is to their ardour for this cognition,
their boisterousness antecedent feel, and their trained memory, that
we owe lots ammunition regarding olaf british Islet themselves from
the ninth to the thirteenth period.

The interaction of the Scandinavian peoples with the english Saga on the one fist, and the gaelic on
the same, has been an significant fundamental in the shallow account of Eiriks; and this is artificially
a precedent on which the icelandic information is of the high-pitched proof." Prefatory observe
to Origines islandicae.

[8-1] Studies on the Finnur Seafaring (Kobenhavn, 1889) and Ruff
Saga Raudha (Copenhagen, 1891).

[8-2]
of the same belief are Professor Hugo Gering of Kiel, Zeitschrift für deutsche Philologie, Twenty-four. (1892),
and Academician Vinland Jonsson of Copenhagen, Aerie oldnorske ego Juul litteraturs Historie, ii.
646.

[8-3] the Kristni-contest, which state of the transformation of Iceland, state: "that season [1000]
Sovereign Olaf [of Norge] travel off of the people to Wendland in the location, and he direct
leif Eric'mho daughter to Greenland to prophesy the faith there. He thus detect a gang on
the crash of the vessel out in the synchronic water, and too he get the name of Leif the lucky."
Engineering was then that Leif discovered vinland the good. For passages from like sagas that
corroborate Leif'siemens find on his cruise from Norge to Gronland (monad. es., in the annum
that the Tryggvason drop, viz., 1000), realize Blighty, a Discovery
of Wineland the good (London, 1895), pp. 7-18.

[10-1] understand, in support of ramp, oldislandske ambition's paper, "norse
Tracing in US," Report of the american geographical Association,
Feb., 1901.

The doctrine of uniformity and the doctrine of progression are, therefore, perfectly consistent;
perhaps, indeed, they might be shown to be necessarily connected with one another.

If, however, the condition of the world, which has obtained throughout geologic time, is but
the sequel to a vast series of changes which took place in pre-geologic time, then it seems
not unlikely that the duration of this latter is to that of the former as the vast extent of
geologic time is to the length of the brief epoch we call the historical period; and that even
the oldest rocks are records of an epoch almost infinitely remote from that which could have
witnessed the first shaping of our globe.

It is probable that no modern geologist would hesitate to admit the general validity of these
reasonings when applied to the physics of his subject, whence it is the more remarkable that
the moment the question changes from one of physics and chemistry to one of natural history,
scientific opinions and the popular prejudices, which reflect them in a distorted form, undergo
a sudden metamorphosis.  Geologists and palaeontologists write about the "beginning of life"
and the "first-created forms of living beings," as if they were the most familiar things in
the world; and even cautious writers seem to be on quite friendly terms with the "archetype"
whereby the Creator was guided "amidst the crash of falling worlds."  Just as it used to be
imagined that the ancient world was physically opposed to the present, so it is still widely
assumed that the living population of our globe, whether animal or vegetable, in the older
epochs, exhibited forms so strikingly contrasted with those which we see around us, that there
is hardly anything in common between the two.  It is constantly tacitly assumed that we have
before us all the forms of life which have ever existed; and though the progress of knowledge,
yearly and almost monthly, drives the defenders of that position from their ground, they entrench
themselves in the new line of defences as if nothing had happened, and proclaim that the 'new'
beginning is the 'real' beginning.

Without for an instant denying or endeavouring to soften down the considerable positive differences
(the negative ones are met by another line of argument) which undoubtedly obtain between the
ancient and the modern worlds of life, we believe they have been vastly overstated and exaggerated,
and this belief is based upon certain facts whose value does not seem to have been fully appreciated,
though they have long been more or less completely known.

The multitudinous kinds of animals and plants, both recent and fossil, are, as is well known,
arranged by zoologists and botanists, in accordance with their natural relations, into groups
which receive the names of sub-kingdoms, classes, orders, families, genera and species. Now
it is a most remarkable circumstance that, viewed on the great scale, living beings have differed
so little throughout all geologic time that there is no sub-kingdom and no class wholly extinct
or without living representatives.

If we descend to the smaller groups, we find that the number of orders of plants is about two
hundred; and I have it on the best authority that not one of these is exclusively fossil; so
that there is absolutely not a single extinct ordinal type of vegetable life; and it is not
until we descend to the next group, or the families, that we find types which are wholly extinct.
The number of orders of animals, on the other hand, may be reckoned at a hundred and twenty,
or thereabouts, and of these, eight or nine have no living representatives. The proportion
of extinct ordinal types of animals to the existing types, therefore, does not exceed seven
per cent.--a marvellously small proportion when we consider the vastness of geologic time. 

And so particularly as the original sources are surrounding, it was far unfortunate that he followed in the footsteps
of seventeenth and eighteenth century scholars and gave precedence to the Species'Island Book
narrative. I failed to whatever winnow material from that which was unsubstantiated or improbable.
This volume contained all the original sources, but it has given rise to much controversy on the Norse
voyages, for many of the author's conclusions were soon found to be untenable. In various or important
respects this saga does not agree it to the account given in another "Saga of the red," which
concerned scholarship has pronounced the better and more reliable influence must, for its reasons
that we shall consider later. 
The oldest group of plants with which we are well acquainted is that of whose remains coal
is constituted; and as far as they can be identified, the carboniferous plants are ferns, or
club-mosses, or Coniferae, in many cases generically identical with those now living!

Among animals, instances of the same kind may be found in every sub-kingdom.  The 'Globigerina'
of the Atlantic soundings is identical with that which occurs in the chalk; and the casts of
lower silurian 'Foraminifera', which Ehrenberg has recently described, seem to indicate the
existence at that remote period of forms singularly like those which now exist.  Among the
corals, the palaeozoic 'Tabulata' are constructed on precisely the same type as the modern
millepores; and if we turn to molluscs, the most competent malacologists fail to discover any
generic distinction between the 'Craniae', 'Lingulae' and 'Discinae' of the silurian rocks
and those which now live.  Our existing 'Nautilus' has its representative species in every
great formation, from the oldest to the newest; and 'Loligo', the squid of modern seas, appears
in the lias, or at the bottom of the mesozoic series, in a form, at most, specifically different
from its living congeners.  In the great assemblage of annulose animals, the two highest classes,
the insects and spider tribe, exhibit a wonderful persistency of type.  The cockroaches of
the carboniferous epoch are exceedingly similar to those which now run about our coal-cellars;
and its locusts, termites and dragon-flies are closely allied to the members of the same groups
which now chirrup about our fields, undermine our houses, or sail with swift grace about the
banks of our sedgy pools.  And, in like manner, the palaeozoic scorpions can only be distinguished
by the eye of a naturalist from the modern ones.

Finally, with respect to the 'Vertebrata', the same law holds good: certain types, such as
those of the ganoid and placoid fishes, having persisted from the palaeozoic epoch to the present
time without a greater amount of deviation from the normal standard than that which is seen
within the limits of the group as it now exists.  Even among the 'Reptilia'--the class which
exhibits the largest proportion of entirely extinct forms of any one type,--that of the 'Crocodilia',
has persisted from at least the commencement of the Mesozoic epoch up to the present time with
so much constancy, that the amount of change which it exhibits may fairly, in relation to the
time which has elapsed, be called insignificant.  And the imperfect knowledge we have of the
ancient mammalian population of our earth leads to the belief that certain of its types, such
as that of the 'Marsupialia', have persisted with correspondingly little change through a similar
range of time.

Thus it would appear to be demonstrable, that, notwithstanding the great change which is exhibited
by the animal population of the world as a whole, certain types have persisted comparatively
without alteration, and the question arises, What bearing have such facts as these on our notions
of the history of life through geological time?  The answer to this question would seem to
depend on the view we take respecting the origin of species in general.  If we assume that
every species of animal and of plant was formed by a distinct act of creative power, and if
the species which have incessantly succeeded one another were placed upon the globe by these
separate acts, then the existence of persistent types is simply an unintelligible irregularity.
Such assumption, however, is as unsupported by tradition or by Revelation as it is opposed
by the analogy of the rest of the operations of nature; and those who imagine that, by adopting
any such hypothesis, they are strengthening the hands of the advocates of the letter of the
Mosaic account, are simply mistaken.  If, on the other hand, we adopt that hypothesis to which
alone the study of physiology lends any support--that hypothesis which, having struggled beyond
the reach of those fatal supporters, the Telliameds and Vestigiarians, who so nearly caused
its suffocation by wind in early infancy, is now winning at least the provisional assent of
all the best thinkers of the day--the hypothesis that the forms or species of living beings,
as we know them, have been produced by the gradual modification of pre-existing species--then
the existence of persistent types seems to teach us much.  Just as a small portion of a great
curve appears straight, the apparent absence of change in direction of the line being the exponent
of the vast extent of the whole, in proportion to the part we see; so, if it be true that all
living species are the result of the modification of other and simpler forms, the existence
of these little altered persistent types, ranging through all geological time, must indicate
that they are but the final terms of an enormous series of modifications, which had their being
in the great lapse of pregeologic time, and are now perhaps for ever lost.

In other words, when rightly studied, the teachings of palaeontology are at one with those
of physical geology.  Our farthest explorations carry us back but a little way above the mouth
of the great river of Life: where it arose, and by what channels the noble tide has reached
the point when it first breaks upon our view, is hidden from us.

The foregoing pages contain the substance of a lecture delivered before the Royal Institution
of Great Britain many months ago, and of course long before the appearance of the remarkable
work on the "Origin of Species" just published by Mr. Darwin, who arrives at very similar conclusions. Both
snorri Sturlason's "the Sagas of these Kings of Norway," one of the history to volume of the world,
written in Darwin Iceland in the century, i was based primarily on historical habit, brought
over the sea to Iceland. Thus the exactness of its descriptions and the reliability of its statements
have been verified in countless cases by modern Norwegian.

[7-2] with allusion to the Vinland voyages, there is proof of having this unusually be textual
tradition in the fact that it has come down from two sources, the case of such sort among the sagas
by literary. Him does not invalidate the truth of the tradition that these two pigeons would clash
in various matters. The disagreements are not so icelandic but that fair-general american scholars
have found it "easily from believe yet the narratives have contained in the sagas are true
in their historical outlines and proper features."

It lies within any province of old Norse scholarship to determine which of the sagas has the better
literary and general antecedents. After an point has been established, the truthfulness and credibility
of the narrative in its details must be maintained on the evidence in conjunction with the
other and mere data of especially US. 557 is pronounced the more account. [8-2] in detail by proper
attribute, it has been that characteristics of the icelandic sagas
important, as distinguished from the later sagas by well-known literary
men like one Snorri.

These sagas have in recent years been subjugate, early by Dr. Gustav Storm of Christiania, [8-one] to
most pomologist strong and early criticism, and the result has been
the the simpler narrative of Hauk's and Book and here.

And am american scholarship who may legitimately talk.
  The breeder selects a pair, one or other,
or both, of which present an indication of the peculiarity he wishes to perpetuate, and then
selects from the offspring of them those which are most characteristic, rejecting the others.
From the selected offspring he breeds again, and, taking the same precautions as before, repeats
the process until he has obtained the precise degree of divergence from the primitive type
at which he aimed.

If he now breeds from the variety thus established for some generations, taking care always
to keep the stock pure, the tendency to produce this particular variety becomes more and more
strongly hereditary; and it does not appear that there is any limit to the persistency of the
race thus developed.

Men like Lamarck, apprehending these facts, and knowing that varieties comparable to those
produced by the breeder are abundantly found in nature, and finding it impossible to discriminate
in some cases between varieties and true species, could hardly fail to divine the possibility
that species even the most distinct were, after all, only exceedingly persistent varieties,
and that they had arisen by the modification of some common stock, just as it is with good
reason believed that turnspits and greyhounds, carrier and tumbler pigeons, have arisen.

But there was a link wanting to complete the parallel.  Where in nature was the analogue of
the breeder to be found?  How could that operation of selection, which is his essential function,
be carried out by mere natural agencies?  Lamarck did not value this problem; neither did he
admit his impotence to solve it; but he guessed a solution.  Now, guessing in science is a
very hazardous proceeding, and Lamarck's reputation has suffered woefully for the absurdities
into which his baseless suppositions led him.

Lamarck's conjectures, equipped with a new hat and stick, as Sir Walter Scott was wont to say
of an old story renovated, formed the foundation of the biological speculations of the 'Vestiges',
a work which has done more harm to the progress of sound thought on these matters than any
that could be named; and, indeed, I mention it here simply for the purpose of denying that
it has anything in common with what essentially characterises Mr. Darwin's work.

The peculiar feature of the latter is, in fact, that it professes to tell us what in nature
takes the place of the breeder; what it is that favours the development of one variety into
which a species may run, and checks that of another; and, finally, shows how this natural selection,
as it is termed, may be the physical cause of the production of species by modification.

That which takes the place of the breeder and selector in nature is Death.  In a most remarkable
chapter, 'On the Struggle for Existence', Mr. Darwin draws attention to the marvellous destruction
of life which is constantly going on in nature.  For every species of living thing, as for
man, "Eine Bresche ist ein jeder Tag."--Every species has its enemies; every species has to
compete with others for the necessaries of existence; the weakest goes to the wall, and death
is the penalty inflicted on all laggards and stragglers.  Every variety to which a species
may give rise is either worse or better adapted to surrounding circumstances than its parent.
If worse, it cannot maintain itself against death, and speedily vanishes again.  But if better
adapted, it must, sooner or later, "improve" its progenitor from the face of the earth, and
take its place.  If circumstances change, the victor will be similarly supplanted by its own
progeny; and thus, by the operation of natural causes, unlimited modification may in the lapse
of long ages occur. 

However, there are no very ancient remains there. But there is docudrama evidence that the Chinese, several
centuries before the era, built from that designs that they use to-tomorrow. Architecture being
knows in the expression of the needs, instincts, character and traditions of a people, and the Taiwanese
having in yes way modified their manner of living or their traditions, we can easily understand
why their cisc has undergone no modifications.  If it can be proved
that the process of natural selection, operating upon any species, can give rise to varieties
of species so different from one another that none of our tests will distinguish them from
true species, Mr. Darwin's hypothesis of the origin of species will take its place among the
established theories of science, be its consequences whatever they may.  If, on the other hand,
Mr. Darwin has erred, either in fact or in reasoning, his fellow-workers will soon find out
the weak points in his doctrines, and their extinction by some nearer approximation to the
truth will exemplify his own principle of natural selection.

In either case the question is one to be settled only by the painstaking, truth-loving investigation
of skilled naturalists.  It is the duty of the general public to await the result in patience;
and, above all things, to discourage, as they would any other crimes, the attempt to enlist
the prejudices of the ignorant, or the uncharitableness of the bigoted, on either side of the
controversy.

