But George felt now that he did not care who looked at him, who commiserated him. The will
was all right. He did not at that moment wish it to be other than that the old man had made
it. After all their quarrels, all their hot words and perverse thoughts towards each other,
it was clear to him now that his uncle had, at any rate, appreciated him. He could hear the
remainder of it quite unmoved.

There were some other legacies to various people in the City, none of them being considerable
in amount. Five hundred pounds to one, one thousand pounds to another, fifty pounds to a third,
and so on. And then came the body of the will--the very will indeed.

And so Mr. George Bertram willed, that after the payment of all his just debts, and of the
legacies above recapitulated, his whole property should be given to his executors, and by them
expended in building and endowing a college and alms-house, to be called "The Bertram College,"
for the education of the children of London fishmongers, and for the maintenance of the widows
of such fishmongers as had died in want. Now Mr. Bertram had been a member of the Honourable
Company of Fishmongers.

And that was the end of the will. And Mr. Stickatit, having completed the reading, folded it
up, and put it back into the envelope. Sir Henry, the moment the reading was over, again dashed
his fist upon the table. "As heir-at-law," said he, "I shall oppose that document."

"I think you'll find it all correct," said Mr. Stickatit, with a little smile.

"And I think otherwise, sir," said the late solicitor-general, in a voice that made them all
start. "Very much otherwise. That document is not worth the paper on which it is written. And
now, I warn you two, who have been named as executors, that such is the fact."

Sir Lionel began to consider whether it would be better for him that the will should be a will,
or should not be a will. Till he had done so, he could not determine with which party he would
side. If that were no will, there might be a previous one; and if so, Bertram might, according
to that, be the heir. "It is a very singular document," said he; "very singular."

But Sir Henry wanted no allies--wanted no one in that room to side with him. Hostility to them
all was his present desire; to them and to one other--that other one who had brought upon him
all this misfortune; that wife of his bosom, who had betrayed his interests and shattered his
hopes.

"I believe there is nothing further to detain us at the present moment," said Mr. Stickatit.
"Mr. Bertram, perhaps you can allow me to speak to you somewhere for five minutes?"

"I shall act," said George.

"Oh, of course. That's of course," said Stickatit. "And I also."

"Stop one moment, gentlemen," shouted Harcourt again. "I hereby give you both warning that
you have no power to act."

"Perhaps, sir," suggested Stickatit, "your lawyer will take any steps he may think necessary?"

"My lawyer, sir, will do as I bid him, and will require no suggestion from you. And now I have
another matter to treat of. Mr. Bertram, where is Lady Harcourt?"

Bertram did not answer at once, but stood with his back still against the chimney-piece, thinking
what answer he would give.

"Where, I say, is Lady Harcourt? Let us have no juggling, if you please. You will find that
I am in earnest."

"I am not Lady Harcourt's keeper," said George, in a very low tone of voice.

"No, by G----! Nor shall you be. Where is she? If you do not answer my question, I shall have
recourse to the police at once."

