"He is the old type of Methodist," he said. "He is the kind of man who believes that the whale
swallowed Jonah. He has the same concept of religion that he had as a child. I differ with
his policies, his politics, his mental methods, but I don't think anybody here doubts that
he is trying, not only to do the moral thing himself, but to force others to adopt, as rules
for public conduct, the exact code in which he personally believes, and which he certainly
follows. His mental processes are often crude, yet he has much native shrewdness and the ability
to grasp situations as they arise.

"He does not come of the aristocratic class, which probably accounts for his failure, when
he first became secretary, to perceive the necessity for discipline in the navy, and the benefits
of naval tradition.

"He was an ardent follower--I might say swallower--of Bryan, gobbling whole all of the "Great
Commoner's" vagaries. It has been said, more or less humorously, but doubtless with a foundation
of fact, that he was "Secretary of War in all of Bryan's cabinets." That shows where Bryan
placed him. Yet when Bryan broke with Wilson and made his exit from the Cabinet, Daniels found
it perfectly simple, apparently, to drop the Bryanism which had, hitherto, been the very essence
of his life, and become a no less ardent supporter of the President.

"When he was first taken into the cabinet he evidently regarded the finer social amenities
as matters of no consequence, or even as effeminacies. He had but little sense of the fitness
of things, and was, in consequence, continually making faux pas; but he is observant; he has
learned a great deal in the course of his life as a cabinet member, both as to his work in
the Department, and as to the niceties of formal social life."

At the time of our visit to Raleigh I had not met Mr. Daniels, nor heard him speak. Since that
time I have heard him several times and have talked with him. Also I have talked of him with
a number of men who have been thrown more or less closely in contact with him. As is well known,
naval officers detested him with peculiar unanimity. This was true up to the time of our entering
the War. Whether matters have changed greatly since then I am unable to say. One officer, well
known in the navy, said to me quite seriously that he believed the navy would be better off
without its two best dreadnoughts if in losing them it could also lose Mr. Daniels. Such sentiments
were peculiarly unanimous among officers. On the other hand, however, a high officer, who has
been quite close to the Secretary, informs me that it is indeed true that he has improved as
experience has come to him. This officer stated that when Mr. Daniels first took office he
seemed to be definitely antagonistic to officers of the navy. "He appeared to suspect them
of pulling political wires and working in their own interests. That was in the days when he
seemed almost to encourage insubordination among the enlisted men, by his attitude toward them,
in contrast to his attitude towards their superiors. Of course it was demoralizing to the service.
But there has been a marked change in the Secretary since Bryan left the Cabinet." From several
sources I have heard the same evidence. I never heard any one say that Mr. Daniels was really
an able Secretary of the Navy, but I have heard many say that he improved.

Personally he is a very likable man. His face is kind and gentle; his features are interestingly
irregular and there are heavy wrinkles about his mouth and eyes--the former adding something
to the already humorous twinkle of the eyes. His voice has a timbre reminding me of George
M. Cohan's voice. He is hardly an orator in the sense that Bryan is, yet he is not without
simple oratorical tricks--as for example a tremolo, as of emotion, which I have heard him use
in uttering such a phrase as "the grea-a-a-at Daniel Web-ster!" Also, he wears a low turnover
collar and a black string tie--a fact which would not be worth noting did these not form a
part of what amounts almost to a uniform worn by politicians of more or less the Bryan type.
Almost invariably there seems to be something of the minister and something of the actor in
such men.

Once I asked one of the famous Washington correspondents what manner of man Mr. Daniels was.

"He's a man," he said, "that you'd like to go with on a hunting trip in his native North Carolina.
He would be a good companion and would have a lot of funny stories. He is full of kind intentions.
Had you known him before the War, and had he liked you, and had you wished to take a ride upon
a battleship, he would be disposed to order up a battleship and send you for a ride, even if,
by doing so, he muddled up the fleet a little. That would be in line with his fixing it for
moving picture people to act scenes on a battleship's deck--which he permitted. He saw no reason
why that was not proper, and the kind of people who admire him most are those who, likewise,
see no reason why it was not proper. The great lack in his nature is that of personal dignity--or
even the dignity which should be his because of his position. If you are sitting beside him
and he is amiably disposed toward you, he may throw his arm over your shoulder, or massage
your knee while talking with you.

"But if some friend of his were to go to him and convince him that he lacked dignity, he is
the kind of man who, in my judgment, would become so much the worse. That is, if he attempted
to attain dignity he would not achieve it, but would merely grow arbitrary. That, to my mind,
shows his great ineradicable weakness, for it not only reveals him as a man too little for
his job, but prevents his comprehending the basic thing upon which naval discipline is founded.
Nevertheless, as a man you like him. It is as Secretary of the Navy, and particularly as a
War Secretary, that you very definitely don't."

Some time after our visit to Raleigh my companion and I heard Secretary Daniels speak in Charleston.
He told a funny story and talked generalities about the navy. That was before the United States
entered the War. I do not know what he meant the speech for, but what it actually was, was
a speech against preparedness. So was the speech made on the same occasion by Lemuel P. Padgett,
chairman of the House Committee on Naval Affairs. It was a disingenuous speech, a speech to
lull the country into confidence, a speech which, alone, should have been sufficient to prove
Mr. Padgett's unfitness to serve on that committee. Mr. Daniels argued that "Germany's preparedness
had not kept Germany out of war"; that seemed enough, but there was one thing he said which
utterly dumbfounded me. It was this:

"The Southern statesman who serves his section best, serves the country best."

Let the reader reflect for a moment upon such an utterance. Carried a little farther what would
it mean? Would it not be equally logical to say that the man who serves himself best serves
the country best? It is the theory of narrow sectionalism, and by implication, at least, the
theory of individualism as well. And sectionalism and individualism are two of the great curses
of the United States.

Compare with Mr. Daniels' words those of John Hay who, veiling fine patriotism beneath a web
of delicate humor, said:

"In my bewilderment of origin and experience I can only put on an aspect of deep humility in
any gathering of favorite sons, and confess that I am nothing but an American."

Or again, compare with them the famous words of Patrick Henry:

"I am not a Virginian, but an American."

Clearly, one point of view or the other is wrong. Perhaps Mr. Daniels has more light on sectional
questions than had Patrick Henry or John Hay. At all events, the Charleston audience applauded.

CHAPTER XXVII

ITEMS FROM "THE OLD NORTH STATE"

Two of the most interesting things we saw in Raleigh were the model jail on the top floor of
the new County Court House, where a lot of very honest looking rustics were confined to await
trial for making "blockade" (otherwise moonshine) whisky, and the North Carolina Hall of History,
which occupies a floor in the fine new State Administration Building, opposite the Capitol.
At the head of the first stair landing in the Administration Building is a memorial tablet
to William Sidney Porter ("O Henry"), who was born in Greensboro, North Carolina, with a bust
of the author, in relief, by Lorado Taft. Porter, it may be mentioned, was a connection of
Worth Bagley, the young ensign who was the only American naval officer killed in the Spanish-American
War. Bagley was a brother of Mrs. Josephus Daniels. A monument to him stands in the park before
the Capitol. Aside from Porter, the only author well known in our time whom I heard mentioned
in connection with North Carolina, was the Rev. Thomas Dixon, whose name is most familiar,
perhaps, in connection with the moving-picture called "The Birth of a Nation," taken from one
of his novels. Mr. Dixon was born in the town of Shelby, North Carolina, and was for some years
pastor of the Tabernacle Baptist Church, Raleigh.

The Hall of History, containing a great variety of State relics, is one of the most fascinating
museums I ever visited. Too much praise cannot be given Colonel Fred A. Olds and Mr. Marshall
De Lancey Haywood, of the North Carolina Historical Society, for making it what it is. As with
the Confederate Museum in Richmond, so, here, it is impossible to give more than a faint idea
of the interest of the museum's contents. Among the exhibits of which I made note, I shall,
however, mention a few. There was a letter written from Paris in the handwriting of John Paul
Jones, requesting a copy of the Constitution of North Carolina; there was the Ku Klux warning
issued to one Ben Turner of Northampton County; and there was an old newspaper advertisement
signed by James J. Selby, a tailor, dated at Raleigh, June 24, 1824, offering a reward of ten
dollars for the capture and return of two runaways: "apprentice boys, legally bound, named
William and Andrew Johnson." The last named boy was the same Andrew Johnson who later became
a distinctly second-rate President of the United States. Also there was a peculiarly tragic
Civil War memento, consisting of a note which was found clasped in the dead hand of Colonel
Isaac Avery, of the 6th North Carolina Regiment, who was killed while commanding a brigade
on the second day at Gettysburg.

     Tell my father I died with my face to the enemy.

These words were written by the fallen officer with his left hand, his right arm having been
rendered useless by his mortal wound. For ink he used his own life blood.

Also in the museum may be seen the chart-book of Blackbeard, the pirate, who, one of the curators
of the museum informed me, was the same person as Edward Teach. Blackbeard, who is commemorated
in the name of Blackbeard's Island, off the coast of South Georgia, met his fate when he encountered
a cruiser fitted out by Governor Spotswood of Virginia and commanded by Lieutenant Maynard.
Maynard found Blackbeard's ship at Okracoke Inlet, on the North Carolina coast. Before he and
his men could board the pirate vessel the pirates came and boarded them. Severe fighting ensued,
but the pirates were defeated, Maynard himself killing Blackbeard in single combat with swords.
The legend around Okracoke is that Blackbeard's bad fortune on this occasion came to him because
of the unlucky number of his matrimonial adventures, the story being that he had thirteen wives.
It is said also that his vanquishers cut off his head and hung it at the yard-arm of their
ship, throwing his body into the sea, and that as soon as the body struck the water the head
began to call, "Come on, Edward!" whereupon the headless body swam three times around the ship.
Personally I think there may be some slight doubt about the authenticity of this part of the
story. For, while from one point of view we might say that to swim about in such aimless fashion
would be the very thing a man without a head might do, yet from another point of view the question
arises: Would a man whose head had just been severed from his body feel like taking such a
long swim?

And what a rich lot of other historic treasures!

Did you know, for instance, that Flora Macdonald, the Scottish heroine, who helped Prince Charles
Edward to escape, dressed as a maidservant, after the Battle of Culloden, in 1746, came to
America with her husband and many relatives just before the Revolutionary War and settled at
Cross Creek (now Fayetteville), North Carolina? When General Donald Macdonald raised the Royal
standard at the time of the Revolution, her husband and many of her kinsmen joined him, and
these were later captured at the Battle of Moore's Creek Bridge, in 1776, and taken as prisoners
to Philadelphia. Yes; and Flora Macdonald's garter-buckles are now in the museum at Raleigh.

A portrait of Captain James J. Waddell, C.S.N., who was a member of a famous North Carolina
family, recalls the story of his post-bellum cruise, in command of the Shenandoah, when, not
knowing that the War was over, he preyed for months on Federal commerce in the South Seas.

The museum of course contains many uniforms worn by distinguished soldiers of the Confederacy
and many old flags, among them one said to be the original flag of the Confederacy. This flag
was designed by Orren R. Smith of Louisburg, North Carolina, and was made in that town. The
journals of the Confederate Congress show that countless designs for a flag were submitted,
that the Committee on a Flag reported that all designs had been rejected and returned, the
committee having adopted one of its own; nevertheless Mr. Smith's claim to have designed the
flag finally adopted is so well supported that the Confederate Veterans, at their General Reunion
held in Richmond in 1915, passed a resolution endorsing it.

Also in the museum is the shot-riddled smokestack of the Confederate ram Albemarle, which was
built on the farm of Peter E. Smith, on Roanoke River, and is said to have been the first vessel
ever launched sidewise. The Albemarle, after a glorious career, was sunk by Lieutenant Cushing,
U.S.N., in his famous exploit with a torpedo carried on a pole at the bow of a launch. It will
be remembered that the launch was sunk by the shock and that only Cushing and one member of
his crew survived, swimming away under fire.

North Carolina also claims--and not without some justice--that the first English settlement
on this continent was not that at Jamestown, but the one made by Sir Walter Raleigh's expedition,
under Amadas and Barlowe, which landed at Roanoke Island, August 4, 1584, and remained there
for some weeks. The Jamestown Colony, say the North Carolinians, was merely the first to stick.

Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, across the sound from Roanoke Island, is the site of the first
flight of a man in an aeroplane, the Wright brothers having tried out their first crude plane
there, among the Kill-Devil sand dunes. A part of the original plane is preserved in the museum.
Nor must I leave the museum without mentioning the bullet-riddled hat of General W.R. Cox,
and his gray military coat, with a blood-stained gash in front, where a solid shell ripped
across. General Cox's son, Mr. Albert Cox, was with us in the museum when we stopped to look
at this grim souvenir. "It tore father open in front," he said, "spoiled a coat which had cost
him $550, Confederate, and damaged his watchchain. Nevertheless he lived to take part in the
last charge at Appomattox, and the watchchain wasn't so badly spoiled but what, with the addition
of some new links, it could be worn." And he showed us where the chain, which he himself was
wearing at the time, had been repaired.

I must say something, also, of the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts,
an institution doing splendid work, and doing it efficiently, both in its own buildings and
through extension courses. Fifty-two per cent. of the students at this college earn their way
through, either wholly or in part. And better yet, eighty-three per cent. of the graduates
stick to the practical work afterwards--an unusually high record.

The president of the college, Dr. D.H. Hill, is a son of the Confederate general of the same
name, who has been called "the Ironsides of the South."

There are a number of other important educational institutions in and about Raleigh, and there
is one which, if not important, is at all events, a curio. This is "Latta University," consisting
of a few flimsy shacks in the negro village of Oberlin, on the outskirts of Raleigh.

"Professor" Latta is one of the rare negroes who combines the habit with white folks of the
old fashioned southern darky, and the astuteness of the "new issue" in high finance. Years
ago he conceived the idea of establishing a negro school near Raleigh, to which he gave the
above mentioned name. He had no funds, no credit and little or no education. Nevertheless he
had ideas, the central one of which was that New England was the land of plenty. With the "university"
in his head, and with a miscellaneous collection of photographs, he managed to make a tour
of northern cities, and came back with his pockets lined. As a result he procured a little
land, put up frame buildings, gathered a few youths about him, and was fully launched on his
career as a university president.

So long as the money held out, Latta was content to drift along with his school. When he came
to the bottom of the bag he invested the last of his savings in another ticket north and, armed
with his title of "president," made addresses to northern audiences and replenished his finances
with their contributions.

Finally, as the great act of his career, Latta managed to get passage to Europe and was gone
for several months. When he came back he had added a manuscript to his possessions: "The History
of My Life and Work," which he published, and which is one of the most curious volumes I have
ever seen.

It is illustrated--largely with photographs of the author. One of the pictures is entitled,
"Rev. M.L. Latta when he first commenced to build Latta University." This shows Latta with
the tips of his fingers resting on a small table. Another picture shows him posed with one
hand raised and the other resting on what is unmistakably the same little table. The latter
picture, however, has the caption, "Rev. M.L. Latta making a speech in Pawtucket, R.I., at
Y.M.C.A." Both pictures were all too clearly taken in a photographer's studio. Another page
shows us, "Rev. M.L. Latta and three of his Admirable Presidents." In this case Latta merely
takes for himself the upper right-hand corner, the other eminent persons pictured being ex-Presidents
Roosevelt, McKinley and Cleveland. The star illustration, however, is a "made up" picture,
in which a photograph of Latta, looking spick-and-span, has been pasted onto what is very obviously
a painted picture of a hall full of people in evening dress, all of them gazing at Latta, who
stands upon the stage, dignified, suave, impressive, and all dressed-up by the brush of the
"re-toucher." This picture is called: "In the Auditorium at London, in 1894." Similar artfulness
is shown in pictures of the "university" buildings, where the same frame structure, photographed
from opposite ends, appears in one case as, "Young Ladies' Dormitory," and in the other as,
"Chapel and Young Men's Dormitory."

In his autobiography, Latta tells how, in the course of getting his own schooling, he raised
money by teaching a district school during vacation. He says:

     After paying my expenses, I had nearly a hundred dollars to return
     to school with. When I returned I was able to dress very neatly
     indeed, and the young ladies received me very cordially on the
     green during social hour. Before I taught school it was a common
     saying among the young ladies and young men "Latta"; but after I
     returned with a hundred dollars it was "Mr. Latta" all over the
     campus. I would hear the young ladies saying among themselves, "I
     bet Mr. Latta will not go with you--he will correspond with me this
     afternoon." I paid no attention to it. I said to myself, "Don't you
     see what a hundred dollars will do?"

In another place the Professor reveals how he came to write his book: "Professor King, one
of the teachers at Latta University said to me, 'If I had done what you have done I would have
wrote a history of my life several years ago.'"

The best part of the book, however, gives us Latta's account of his doings in London:

     Just before I left the city of London I was invited by a
     distinguished friend, a close relation to Queen Victoria, to make a
     speech. He told me there would be a meeting in one of the large
     halls in that city. I can't just think of the name of the hall. He
     invited me to be present. The distinguished friend that I have just
     mentioned presided over the meeting. There was an immense audience
     present. If memory serves me right, I was the only Negro in the
     hall. The gentleman came to me and asked if I would make a speech.
     I told him I had already delivered one address, besides several
     sermons I had preached, and I thought that I would not speak again
     during my stay. I accepted the invitation, however, and spoke.

The Professor then tells how he was introduced as one whose addresses were "among the ablest
ever delivered in London." Also he gives his speech in full. Great events followed. His distinguished
unnamed friend, the "close relation of the Queen," came to him soon after, he says, and asked
him if he had "ever been to the palace."

Continues Latta:

     He said to me, "If you will come over before you leave the city,
     and call to see me, I will take you to the palace with me and
     introduce you to the Queen." I told him I would do so, that I had
     heard a good deal about the royal throne, and I would be very much
     interested to see the palace. He said he thought I would, because
     the government was very different from ours.

     I called at his residence as I had promised, and he went with me to
     the palace. The Queen knew him, of course. He was received very
     cordially. Everything shined so much like gold in the palace that I
     had to stop and think where I was. He introduced me to the Queen,
     and told her I was from North America. He told her that I spoke at
     a meeting he presided over, and he enjoyed my speech very much. He
     told her we had an immense audience, and all the people were well
     pleased with the speech. The Queen said she was more than glad to
     meet me, and she would have liked very much to have been present,
     and heard the speech that her cousin said I made.... She told me
     she hoped that would not be the last visit I would make to their
     city. I shook hands with her and bade her good-bye. The
     distinguished friend carried me and showed me the different
     departments of the palace, and I bade him good-bye.

