 He stretched the wet Grass and
his pitiful meow all the mice had to scare when the rain was not considered would have done.
- Last fell silent again this Miau; Rosaurus was paralyzed and impotent consciousness and
everything was gone from him. 

Meanwhile, Joly had died - he had too good of food and how Lisi said that from the constant Anger
over Rosaurus get the diamond and had become so disgusting that you find the necessary stopped him
dead to shoot, of which the princess could certainly learn nothing. Soon they brought her another
dog, which looked similar to the Joly, only younger and more fun. Now came the turn of Rosaurus
to be jealous and he was so violent and merciless against the small animal, he had learned so little
from the magnanimity of the lion, that he the new Joly little scratching out once with a powerful
blow of his paw an eye.

Accordingly Rosaurus was banished into the hall and the small and
Joly was the Schooßhund the constant companion of the princess.

Once they got two charming little birds, they were green and they were called the Lovebirds because
they were always very close to each other and the image of a good marriage . Charges They came from America,
where they are native. The princess was delighted at the small animals. - Rosaurus saw her one
day and seemed to think that it merely because of him had come so far, and he rushed her to the
farmer and said his claws into the Drathgitter to get them out, fortunately just Lisi came in
and raised a terrible cries. - Rosaurus was chased and saved the lives of young birds. The might
have been fear but be very large and beautiful green feathers were
flying in the cage around, and here and there was bleeding a place
where a sharp claw had scratched the skin.

After this iniquity Rosaurus fell completely from favor, and as a young Mademoiselle Gogo Teacher
made way, as she begged for a transfer because of ill health to retire took her Rosaurus to which
they had become accustomed to with in her apartment, where they him with great Used to love
and care. The Princess had her a big soft velvet cushion for this Boyfriend gift, it was Rosaurus
and was still a nice old boy.

He That really nothing to eat and purr as - and the spin of the wheel
Mile Gogo purring with him about the bet.

       
           
       Pressure of the printing press club in Leipzig.

  
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
    
  ERRATA
  
  The little Diana [unchanged: always later "Diane"]
  Princess wanted to know all these names
  nothing. [Original has excess "at the end] if they
  give us nothing, we take it. "[missing] Promises of biscuit and treat
    [Orig Pisquit] if we wanted
  to take it with us. "[missing] following report. "They [" never comes]
enjoy such good things should. "[missing] Are you still angry with
me that I'll broke his arm in my pocket. [Unchanged: error. for?]
"If you have loved me [missing] Because I was not born there suddenly died, I had the sublime feet sat, so certainly I
would also like you was present at his Nirvana. And I would be as you are .-- But come, Vasitthi
- while we are still thoughts and ideas do this to me love. Describe me exactly the accomplished,
that I see him in spirit and thus achieve what was not permitted on the earth will certainly
give me the peace. "

"Gladly, my friend," replied Vasitthi.

And they told him the appearance of perfection, Train to train, not
the least forgetful.

But sullenly said Kamanita:

"Oh, what good descriptions, what are you saying that everything could just as well on those
old Ascetics fit, which I told you I was with him in the hall to Rajagaha Hafner spent one night,
and he was not so foolish indeed, as I believed I, for he has yet,
as I realize now, to tell some things right.

Well, Vasitthi say me nothing but put you in the spirit before the
perfected until you see him, as you have seen him face to face, and
as a result of our spiritual community I will perhaps take part in
this vision.

"

"Gladly, my friend."

Vasitthi and introduced himself to the accomplished, as he was about
to enter into Nirvana.

"Do you see him, my dear?"

"Not yet, Vasitthi."

"I have this fantasy image sensualize," thought Vasitthi.

And she looked around the vast space around where the Brahma world was on the extinction.

Just as some big brass founder, when he finished the shape of a glorious
divine image has, and he breaks off of ore to fill this form, is now
looking around in his workshop; and what about when everything is
in small idols, figurines, vases and vessels, all his Property, the
work of his life - which he gladly and willingly throws everything
into the melting furnace to this is to cast a magnificent idol perfect:

So
looked around in boundless spaces Vasitthi:

and what all is left
of paling light and dissolving forms of the Brahma World was that
they went through their spiritual power in itself, depopulated the
entire room, and banished them whole mass of astral substance in the
forms of their imagination and created in space, a colossal shining
image of perfection, as he was about to enter into Nirvana.

And how they saw this picture in front of, and rose up in her no affection, no sadness.

For even the great saints Upagupta when he carried the art of magic Maras, of evil, to see long-dead
figure of the Buddha was, there arose in him affection, so that he
worshiped the false appearance before prostrated and overwhelmed with
sadness lamented: "Woe About this relentless volatility in that it
dissolves so wonderful creatures!

For the so-glorious body of the great saints is subject to decay
and destruction succumbed.

"

But not so Vasitthi.

Unmoved, she looked concentrated mind the appearance, as an artist
his work, only anxious to share the same Kamanita.

"Now I'm beginning to see a figure," said the latter. "Oh, it maintained, let them still clearer
light up! "

Since Vasitthi looked around again in space.

In its center was still red hot, zornesblitzende glory of a hundred
thousand times the Brahma remained.

And Vasitthi tore through their mental powers this supreme deity and banished from their site
them into the shape of the Buddha appearance.

As this lively and enlightened, as One who enjoys an invigorating
drink.

"Now I see it already clear," said Kamanita.

Since it seemed Vasitthi as if the Buddha spoke to her:

"So have you come, my daughter are.

You with your award to an end?"

And how to respond to his dream image, said Vasitthi:

"I'm so over, sir."

"Well done, my daughter and the long road has not labored up? You still needs help of perfection?
"

"No, sir, I no longer need the help of the Perfect."

"Well done, my daughter did! If you yourself taken refuge, even in
your own You will rest, Vasitthi.

"

"My self I know, O Lord.

How the leaf sheath of a Pisangstammes rolls up and it does not find a core of wood, from the
rooms to a solid support would, therefore, have I know because my self: a bunch of varying designs,
in which nothing eternal is, which one could rest.

And I give this to my self: 'I'm not the one nicht' me - so I judge it. "

"Well done, my daughter only to the doctrine do you think you fixed yet."

"The doctrine, O Lord, has brought me to the goal. As one who by means of a raft a Current has crossed
when he enters the other side, the raft variable does not hold with
drags himself: so I do not consider myself more firmly to the doctrine,
the doctrine let go.

"

"Well done, my daughter such a way nowhere devoted adherent, you will most places with me rise
of peace.

"

"'Resurrection,' you said, Lord," that is not true.

Not raised, this is true not to. " And this doctrine, that neither is true resurrection rise
not even - even which is no longer correct. Nothing more is true, and least true of nothing.
So I have now understood. "

Since the Buddha smiled a bright smile appearance.

"Now I am also aware of the trains," said Kamanita. "As a reflection in running Water I know vaguely.
Oh, hold it firmly, confirm it, Vasitthi! "

Vasitthi looked around in space.

The room was empty.

Since Vasitthi threw her body into the astral their mass into the phenomenon.

Kamanita noticed how Vasitthi vanished. But leaving a legacy of a dying man, Vasitthi so had bequeathed
to him now the Buddha image that remained with him alone in space, and he now clearly recognized.

"That
old ascetic, with whom I spent the night in Rajagaha and I scolded foolish, it was yes the
Perfect! O me of fools! Was there ever a bigger fools than me? What I, as the highest salvation,
as salvation itself desired, this I have already been billions of Years possessed! "

As he approached the phenomenon as a contracting the cloud and wrapped it in a shiny Mist.

XLV. WORLD NIGHT AND WORLD GRAY

As in a hard court, when all the torches and lamps are extinguished, is in a corner of a sacred image
of a lamp still burning remains, therefore, remained in the world Kamanita night alone back.

For as his physicality was wrapped in the astral substance that Buddha appearance, was his soul
entirely enveloped by the Buddha thought: and that was the oil which
the flame This lamp supplied.

The whole conversation he in the lobby of the potter to Rajagaha had with the sublime had increased sentence
by sentence, word for word in his memory on.

After it just over gone through, he began all over again.

And every sentence he was there as a gate in the new way of thinking is opened, which in turn
led to another. And he wandered all of them, leisurely pace, and nothing was there, what was it
dark.

And while his mind because in this way into the Buddha mind spun in and processed, called his physicality
more and more of the surrounding astral mist, so that this finally
became transparent.

And the darkness of the night world began to be a delicate to show blue, which was always dark.

Then
thought Kamanita:

"Outside, now there is the immense darkness of the world overnight. Once but time will come, as
the day dawns and a new Brahma world into existence occurs.

If my thoughts and wishes now would be aimed to be a hundred thousand times Brahma, call of this
world to life is, I do not know who I could run the place since.

For while all the creatures that Brahma world in a faint and not-have
sunk, I'm here alive and mentally strong to Place.

Yes, I could if I wanted at that moment the being all call into existence each in his place,
and the new Weltentag start. But one thing I could: Vasitthi I could never get back into existence.
Vasitthi went away in that vanishing, the existence of germs can not, no God, no Brahma can
find them. But what should my life without Vasitthi that was the most beautiful and best in
life? And what shall I have a Brahmasein, can go beyond what man? What to me is the temporality,
if there is a Eternity there?

"There is an eternity and a path to eternity. Once I was an old Waldbrahmane taught that are woven
around the heart hundred fine veins through which the soul in the
can wander all over the body, a single vein but there would that lead
to the crown, and by this the soul leave the body.

Thus there are hundreds, thousands and even hundreds of thousands
Paths that lead around in this world, by various disease sites, lengthy
and kurzwierige, beautifully furnished and equipped ugly: heaven and
human world and animal kingdom and hells.

But there is one way to leading out completely from this world. This is the way into eternity,
the way to the virgin. In this way I am now. Well, I it will come to an end. "

And he thought of the Buddha thought the roads leading to the destruction
of suffering continues.

And always, the dark blue of the transparent world overnight.

How the same thing but started to become almost black, shining on the new Brahma, a hundred thousand
times Brahma, the enlightened one hundred thousand worlds and replaced.

And

Brahma who issued the happy wake-up call:

"Wake up, its essence all of you this whole world through the night
in the bosom of nothingness can rest!

Here to form the new world of Brahman, to enjoy the new Weltentag, each in its Place, each according
to his power! "

And the creatures and worlds out of non-emerged out of darkness, star to star, and how joyful
shout of a hundred thousand voices and sound of hundreds of thousands
of drums and conches rang:

"Hail to the hundreds of thousands of
Brahma, who calls us to the new world days!

Our salvation, we are called to enjoy the Weltentag with him, his
divine splendor reflect blessed!

"

As Kamanita saw this and knew he was seized with deep pity.

"These beings and worlds rejoice, these star gods and Brahma himself a hundred thousand times
the World Day against, are enjoying life. And why? Because they do not know. "

By this is not compassion for the world, with the gods and the supreme
God overcame Kamanita the last remnant of self-love.

But now he was considering:

"During this World Day will indeed appear perfect Buddhas, which the truth . Proclaim If now
hear these deities, the saving truth and remember that they In the
first dawn of the World Day has seen a creature that looked out from
the world, then they will flourish to the benefit of this memory.

'Even one from our midst, as it a part of us is preceded on that
way, 'they will say and they will redound to salvation.

So I help Allen, as I help myself. For no one can Truth help yourself without helping Allen. "

As soon noticed now a few, then more and more of the star gods that someone was there who do not
as the other more and more clearly illuminated, but declined to shine.

And

she called to him:

"Hey, brother! But look at the great, the hundreds of thousands of
Brahma, that your glory to refresh, that thou mayest shine like us!

You too, brother, are so called, the Glory of the Most High God reflect saved. "

When the gods phoned him so, neither Kamanita looked back, nor listening.

And the gods who saw him still be cloudy, were very concerned about
him at all.

And they turned at Brahma:

"Great Brahma!

Illuminator and Sustainer Oh but see this poor creature who is too
weak to mitzufolgen, decreases its splendor, instead of increasing!

O judge, but your attention him to enlighten him, refresh it!

He, too, have you even called, so he thy divine Shine reflected saved. "

And the great Brahma, full of care for nature, his attention turned to Kamanita to refresh and strengthen
it.

But the gloss Kamanita went away from rapidly.

As it is now the great Brahma more annoyed that this is a creature could not shed light on him and
did not reflect his glory, as it pleased him that a hundred thousand worlds basking in his light
and praised him joyously.

 
 And he drew much of its divine brilliance of the previous worlds - luminosity
 enough to ignite a thousand worlds - and pointed it at Kamanita.

But
 the gloss Kamanita always took off still, as if he would receive the complete
 extinction.
 
 Now, Brahma was greatly fear, in great concern:

"This removes an
in my power - I'm not as omnipotent Nought I see? the way he does
- so I'm not as omniscient?

For those not extinguished, as the Being extinguished in death to be reborn, depending on
the works, not how the worlds go out in the Brahma night in order to ignite again. What light is lit
for him that he despised the mine? So there is a light, brighter than mine? So there So there
a way to mine the opposite - a way into untrodden? I'll probably own ever embark on this path - the
path to the untraversed "?

And the star-gods all came in great fear, in great concern:

"This removes an the power of the great Brahma - so is it not the great Brahma powerful? Which
light is probably him that he spurned the one of the great Brahma? It is because a light more
glorious than the divine, we reflect saved? So there So there a way opposite to ours - a way
into untrodden? We will probably ever embark on this path - the path to the untraversed "?

Now considered a hundred thousand times Brahma:

"Well, I'll keep my brightness, which is now widespread in the space to retreat and all these
worlds will once again sink into the dark night of Brahma. And in a single beam is collected
I will set my light on the being to make it for this my Brahma world
still be saved. "

And the hundred thousand times Brahma took his
now widespread in the space of luminosity is back, so that all the
worlds sank back into the dark night of Brahma. And by His light into
a single beam, collected he set it on Kamanita.

"Now we must shine
at this point, the brightest star of all my Brahma world!" he thought.

Then
she took a hundred thousand times that Brahma single beam, with enough
luminosity to a hundred thousand to ignite worlds, back and spread
again its light across the room.

At the point, however, where he
hoped to shine the brightest star visible, was only a smoldering spark
to discover.

And while the vast space worlds and jubilation to the
new worlds of lighting up Brahma days crowded out, went the pilgrims
Kamanita entirely, like a lamp goes out if it has consumed the last
in the absorbed their wick oil drops. 

End

NOTE

With the exception
of the encounter of the Buddha and the pilgrim in the lobby of the
potter (Majjhimanikayo No. 140, where, however, understands and recognizes
the pilgrimage to the Buddha) and the conversion Angulimala [1] the
events narrated in this book I made up - what I perceive, therefore,
because some readers believed the manuscript, I would have handled
any Indian legend. Only the description of the ball game I have taken
from Dandin amendment garland Daçakumaracaritam; also in the brilliant
introduction of the German translation of this work - by JJ Meyer
- was I many a good sign. I coloring book of the cultural milieu and
historical works of older recent - before all the Jatakas - have used,
is understood well by itself, of modern Works, there was Richard Schmidt's
"Contributions to Indian erotic" is mentioned as extensive mine (Lotus-Verlag,
Leipzig 1902, is published in the same publishers Daçakumaracaritam).

[1]
XXXIV. The chapter details the legend Majjh. No. 86. But is frustrated
archery added by me. The hell image is not found there, too, but no.
50; the fact is entity will judge the hell out No. 130 taken, then
the following scale of the many and the few parts of one another the
canon of (Anguttara Nikayo - by KE Neumann, "Buddhist Anthology, 'p.
104 ff).

The words are real Buddha for their style easily recognizable
as such - although some imitation (p. 140 to 144) can be confused
with them. They are mostly the great Translation works of Dr. Charles
E. Neumann "The speeches Buddhos (Majjhimanikayo) removed. But and
the epoch-making works and still unrivaled Prof. Oldenberg ("Buddha")
owe I have some important points.

It need hardly be remarked that
the few passages of the Upanishads (p. 36 ff., 129, 141) to Prof.
Deussen "Sixty Upanishads of the Veda" are cited. The second major
translation works this excellent and tireless researcher, "The sutras
of the Vedanta" owes my tenth Chapter its origin. If this curious
piece of content is a representation of the Indian Superman is - as
the extreme opposition to Buddhism - as it is in its form meticulous
replica of the Vedantic Sutrastils, with the enigmatic brevity of
Text, the actual principle - recognized as Deussen has correctly -
is to just keywords for memory, but not give the sense of the important
words, one could fixed without danger in writing the text as it was
understood by none but to which the Teachers do not verbally told
the comment that it is usually so pedantic complicated precipitated.
However, these potassium sutras - as the whole Vajaçavas - a humorous
fiction of me - but then, I think, admit of any connoisseur of ancient
India is that they within the bounds of possibility - indeed, the
probable - holds. And he added impetus to the teaching
taken. On happiness and heaven delights was the longing and striving of his heart directed. The
pilgrim Kamanita, my disciples, is in Sukhavati, in the Paradise of the West, back into existence
came to enjoy a thousand and a thousand years of heaven delights. "

XXII. THE PARADISE OF THE WEST

When the Blessed One in the hall of the potter to Rajagaha spoke these words awoke the pilgrims
Kamanita in the Paradise of the West. Dressed in a red coat, the soft and shiny as a petal
in rich folds gushed about him, he found himself with folded Legs, on a powerful, like-colored
lotus flower sitting the middle of a large Swimming pools. were on the wide expanse of water
seen everywhere these lotus flowers, red, blue and white, some still buds than others, although quite
developed, but still closed but open as to his countless, and almost
every one was enthroned a human Figure whose wrinkled dress up the
petals seemed to grow out.

On the sloping banks of the pond, in the greenest grass, laughed of flowers, as if all the gems
the earth would be reborn here in flower shape, illuminated by its brilliance and its colors
retained, but the hard shell, which they carried in their earthly life, against the soft,
cuddly, living plant cell walls exchange.

Such was also the fragrance they exhaled, mightier than the glorious essence, each enclosed
in a crystal bottle was, and yet had all the savory freshness of the natural flower fragrance.

From
this intriguing Ufersaum now the delighted gaze wandered on between high and wide quality tops, emerald-leaved
flowering trees and jewel, which soon brought individually to sometimes in groups stood together,
now formed deep groves, across to the most graceful rock hills which soon showed their naked
crystal, marble and alabaster forms soon with dense Scrub-covered or draped with fragrant flower
florescence.

At one point, but deviated groves rocks and completely to the side to give space to a beautiful
river, which is still, like a Stream of starlight, poured into the pond.

Over the whole area is a vaulted sky, the ultramarine blue down to
yet more was lower, and under this dome floating white clouds concentrated,
lovely to which Genii were stored their instruments the whole room
with the magic sounds of delightful ways fulfilled.

But in this sky no sun was visible, yet it took such a status. Because of the Clouds and the spirits
of rocks and flowers, from water and the lotus flowers in the Robes of the saints, but even more
from their faces radiated a strange light. And as it was light from bright light, but not in
the least to hide, it was the soft, fragrant heat saturated by the
constant touch of the water refreshes, and you the air was a pleasure
to breathe, nothing equals the earth.

As Kamanita the first sight of these wonders had twisted so far that she not overwhelmed, but
began to subordinate as its natural environment, he turned his attention to those other beings
who, like himself, to round the floating lotus thrones were sitting. He soon noticed that the red-clad
men, the dressed in white were females, while of the blue coats wrapped in figures he thought, some
of this, some that belonged to race.

But all of them were inter- they, in full bloom of youth, and all seemed to be filled with the
kindest disposition.

A neighbor in a blue coat inspired him with great confidence, and
desire, a conversation encouraged to engage him, in him.

"To ask whether it concerns well by itself and without being asked
these venerable?" he thought.

"Not to much I would like to know where I am."

To his great surprise the answer was immediately, silently and without
the Blue the lips would have only moved quietly

"You are in Sukhavati,
the abode of bliss."

Involuntarily asked Kamanita more in mind:

"You were here, venerable, when I opened my eyes because my eyes fell
immediately on up.

Are you awake, perhaps simultaneously with me or have you been here long? "

"Since time immemorial, I'm here," said the Blue, "and I would believe that I am eternally here
would be if I had not seen so often, like a lotus flower is opened and a new system came to
light -. and if not the smell of the coral tree would be "

"What's wrong with this scent?"

"You'll soon discover themselves.

The coral tree is the greatest miracle of this paradise."

The music of the heavenly spirits who accompany themselves on how this silent conversation seemed,
with their ways and sounds are clinging to every sentence, as if
its the same to deepen meaning and to make clear what could not believe
the words wove in this Words, a strange mystical clay, and it seemed
the listening Kamanita as if in infinite depths of his mind opened,
in whose shadow is formless memories excited to wake up without can.

"The greatest miracle!" he said after a pause. "I thought of everything here is wonderful the most
wonderful of those beautiful stream that flows into our pond. "

"The heavenly Ganga," nodded the blue.

"The heavenly Ganga" - Kamanita repeated dreamily, and again came
over him, just in increasingly, that feeling of something, he must
know and yet do not know, could while the mysterious sounds in the
deepest depths of his own self, the sources that stream to look for
tracks.

XXIII. BLESSED REIGEN

With surprise Kamanita noticed now, as a not far from him, perched on their Lotus Rose white figure
suddenly rose into the air. The accumulated mass of the square jacket folds developed themselves
apart until the dress hung in a straight line from shoulder to hem golden. And this was no longer
touched the petals - the figure floated freely over the Pond out on up the bank and disappeared
among the trees and behind bushes.

"How wonderful it must be!" - Thought Kamanita. "But that's a very difficult art, although it looks
as if it were nothing.

I wonder if I can ever get well? "

"You can already, if you want," said the blue, to the last question was addressed.

Buy Kamanita had the feeling as if something was picking his body into the air. He floated
even across the pond to the shore, and soon he was surrounded by
greenery.

Where he's Desiring gaze, there are flight went quickly or slowly, depending on demand. He saw other
Lotus ponds, just as glorious as the one he had just left, roamed
lovely groves, where colorful birds hopped from branch to branch,
and their melodious chirping with the faint sound of the top mixed
stressed out over flower-filled meadows, where cute antelope drove
their game, without in the least afraid of him, and was finally on
the gentle slope of a hill down.

Between trees and flowering bushes, he saw the corner a pond where the water glittered around the large lotus
flowers with flowers Throne here and there wore a blessed shape,
while several empty even of the whole unfolded were.

Because it was obviously just a moment of general swarming. As a warm Summer evening, the fireflies
among the trees and bushes around the circle back and forth, a quiet,
bright bustle, so here the blessed figures floated individually and
in pairs, in whole Groups or lines through the woods and around the
rocks.

Here it was seen their faces and eyes in that they vividly engaged
in conversation and you sensed the invisible threads of Conversation,
located between the drifting silently over and over tighten.

In sweet, wonderful partiality Kamanita enjoyed this delightful spectacle. was gradually in him a
desire to converse with those who rejoice.

Immediately he was surrounded by a whole society that welcomed him
warmly as the new arrivals, the newly awakened.

Kamanita was very surprised and asked if the rumor of its birth itself
had spread throughout Sukhavati.

"Oh, when a lotus opens, rain all the lotus flowers in paradise ponds,
and each Being feels when awakened somewhere a new being to salvation.

"

"But how can you know that now I'm new?"

The hover over him smiling sweetly.

"You're not so very awake."

"You look at us as if you saw a dream and figures in front of you
were afraid that they suddenly could disappear and that a harsh reality
around you again want to.

"

Kamanita shook his head.

"I do not quite understand.

What a dream figures?"

"You forget," said a White-Clad "that he certainly was not at the Coral Tree."

"No, I was not there.

But I've already heard of him.

My neighbor in the pool I said it, the tree will be such a miracle.

What is it then with him? "

But they all smiled mysteriously, glancing at each other and shaking his head.

"I would like to down immediately. Will no one show me the way?"

"The way you can find it myself when the time has come."

Kamanita passed his hand across his forehead.

"Another wonderful thing was there, which he said .... Yes .... The heavenly Ganga It will
send our pond fed. Is yours with the so well? "

The White-Clad pointed to the clear river, which wound around the foot of the hill and in lazy bends
to the pond zuschlängelte.

"This is our influx through the barrel. Innumerable such veins these fields, and also what you
have seen is only one such, albeit a larger one.

But the heavenly Ganga itself Sukhavati encloses the whole. "

"Have you seen it yourself?"

The White shook his head.

"So because you can not get there?"

"You can already," they all answered. "But none of us was there. Why should we? Nowhere, it may be
better than here. Some others were certainly there - but they never are flew again. "

"Why not?"

The White pointed to the ponds:

"You see the red there, almost on the other side - he was there, it
is long, long time will.

We ask him if he is later flown again to the shore of the Ganga? "

"Never," sounded at once the response of the Reds.

"And why not?"

"Fly himself back and get you an answer."

"Shall we? With you I should have."

"I should like to point - but not now."

From a nearby grove floated a train out of blessed figures, wrapped into a round dance bushes around
the meadow, and as the series expanded, took the extreme form - a
light blue - the hand of whites.

This invitation gave her other hand Kamanita.

He thanked her with a smile, but shook his head softly: -

"I still
would like to see better."

"Yes, just calm and awake. Goodbye!"

And moved away from the light blue gently, she floated away from the airy grass dance.

And also the other covered with a friendly, encouraging greeting like
to rest him for the collection to give.

XXIV THE CORAL TREE

Kamanita followed them with the long view and wondered. And then he wondered about his miracles.
"How is it that everything me so strange happened to sound? If I here belong, it seems to me
then why not all, of course - but each new phenomenon here is a mystery to me and put me in astonishment.
For example, this scent that suddenly blowing past me.

As he is so different from all other flower scents here - a lot full and powerful, attractive
and disturbing. Where can he come from?

... But where I may well come from yourself? It seems like I recently nothing I have been. Or I
did have a life, not just here? But then where? And how am I come here? "

While these questions rose in him, had to his body, without his noticing it, from the Lawn detached,
and he was seen already on - but in none of the directions which the others were followed. Kamanita
rose up against a saddle on the summit of the hill.

When he in obedience to her, he was an even stronger whiff of that new, strange odor received.

Kamanita
flew.

Beyond the hill, the area lost some charm. The flower-beds, was sparse, the dark bushes, the dense
trees, and rocks, rugged and higher. Herds of gazelles grazed there, but only very occasionally,
there was a blissful form.

The valley narrowed and resulted in a gap. Please enter here the smell was even stronger. Faster
and faster his flight was always naked, steeper and more joined together the rock walls, to
see was nowhere to be an output.

The canyon took a few sharp turns and suddenly opened.

To Kamanita spread of an enclosed sky-aspiring Malachitfelsen basin, and the middle of this was
the miracle tree.

Trunk and branches were of bright, red coral, a little yellow was
the redness of the curly Foliage, from which glowed the deep scarlet
flowers.

About rock pinnacles and treetops stretched the sky dark blue, without a single Clouds could be seen.
Also permeated the music of the little geniuses here - which was still trembling in the air, was
like a memory of long belonged melodies.

Only three colors were there, the ultramarine blue of the sky, the malachite green of the rocks, the
Coral of the tree. And just like perfume - that mysterious, all other dissimilar fragrance of crimson
flowers, Kamanita had led here.

And immediately was now the Wunderart this fragrance:

When inhaled Kamanita him here, where it condenses the whole kettle
filled, expanded suddenly his mind and flooded and broke through the
barrier, which so far behind his Awakening had been built in the ponds.

His

previous life lay open before him:

He saw the hall of the potter, where he was sitting with that foolish Buddha Monk in conversation
and he saw the lane in Rajagaha he hurried through, and meet him
storming cow - then dismayed Faces all around and the yellow-robed
monks ....

And he saw the woods and country roads of his pilgrimage,
his palace and his two Women, courtesans Ujjenis, the robbers, the
grove and the terrace of the Krishna Sorrowless with Vasitthi, the
parents and the nursery ....

And behind it, he saw another life and
another and another one - and still others, such as If the row of
trees provides a road until the trees are to points and the points
in a single shadow stripes merge.

At the sight of him dizzy. And now he was back in the gap, like a Sheet, which is driven by the wind.
For the first time no one has the scent of the Coral Tree long, and the survival instinct takes
away any of the first vertigo.

When he calmer floated through the open valley, considered Kamanita:

"Now
I understand why the whites said I was probably not yet been to the
Coral Tree.

Of course, I could not then understand what they meant by 'dream
characters', and now but I know it, because in another life I've seen
those.

And now I understand that, why I'm here. I wanted the mango groves at Rajagaha visit the Buddha.
Course was frustrated by my sudden, violent death, but my good will
is me been counted, so I have come to this place of bliss, as if I
to his feet would sit and died in his blessed doctrine.

So is not my pilgrimage have been in vain. "

Kamanita and soon reached the pond and sat down on his red lotus flower, like a bird that seeks its
nest.

XXV. THE BUD OPENS

Suddenly, it seemed Kamanita as if the
bottom of the ponds is a living thing moving. In the crystal Depth,
it was vaguely aware of a rising shadow. The water seethed and surged,
and a large lotus bud with red tip shot like a fish out of the flood
up to then floating on the water surface to weigh the corrugated first
and then in circles for a long time then trembled and glittered as
fragmented, brightly sparkling, as if the pond with flowing Diamonds
were filled, while the reflection of the water Blinke like small flames
on the Lotus leaves, the clothes and the faces of the blessed figures
fluttered aloft.

And the mind Kamanita trembled and shone in all
its hidden colors, including over his heart seemed to be a reflection
of added joyful dance movements with ease.

"What was that?" asked
his view the blue neighbor.

"Deep down, in the wide world far, on
the muddy ground, was at that moment a human Soul, their heart's desire
directed to appear here in Sukhavati back into existence. Now we will
also observe whether the bud is well developed and come into bloom.
For many a soul, her desire towards the place of pure bliss, but can
not, to live by it, but caught up again in unholy passions, sinks
into the Lust of the flesh is filth and adhere to the earth. But then
stunted the bud and last disappears entirely. This time it is, as
you see a male soul. A this comes in the colorful world forcing from
easier ways of heaven, why do you also notice will see that, although
the red and white at about the same number will be considered under
the the lighter blue, feminine, are by far the most. "

With this
release, the heart trembled Kamanita quite unusual, as if suddenly
painful Joy and pleasure it hurt giving birth in swaying motion set,
and his eyes rested with counsel puzzle on a closed lotus flower,
the white, like the breast of a swan, close to him to in the still
quiet water moving gracefully rocked.

"Can you remember also that
you have ever seen, like the bud of my Lotus rose from the depths,
"he asked the experienced neighbor.

"Certainly, for she appeared
so together with this white flower that you look now. And the pair
I have always observed, sometimes not without concern. Because pretty
soon started your bud, it's clear to shrink and she was almost completely
under the water surface sunk, when they suddenly rose, full and bright
and was then did splendidly developed to unfold. The white but grew
slowly, gradually and steadily meet their development - but then she
was suddenly attacked by a disease. But she recovered quickly and
was such a beautiful flower, they like you now in front of you see.
"

These words rose up in Kamanita such a joyous movement that wanted
to seem him when he was still only a dreary guest on a cloudy spot
been, - so now seemed Everything around him to shine, sweet perfume
and sound. 

And as if his glance rested intently on the white lotus,
a magic wand would be a hidden to raise resources, was stirring the
tip of the flower, the leaves turned their edges forward and bowed
to all sides, and sieh' - in their midst sat Vasitthi wide open Eyes,
whose sweet smile came across his, the Buck.

And Kamanita Vasitthi
and simultaneously stretched out his arms to each other, and their
hands into each other dramatically, they flew to the pond on the shore.

Kamanita
saw that Vasitthi it still did not recognize, but only to him involuntarily
turned, as the sunflower the sun. How would she know him well should,
because no one immediately when he awoke in his previous life remembered
- even if in the Depths of their minds at the sight of dark forebodings
might rain, as before him, speaking as a neighbor of the celestial
Ganga.

He pointed out the bright river which flowed quietly into
the pond:

"To feed the silvery waves of the celestial Ganga all Lotus
ponds in the fields of Blessed. "

"The heavenly Ganga?" she repeated
questioning and ran his hand across his forehead.

"Come, let us go
to the coral tree."

"There, but the trees and bushes is so lovely,
and they play there such a cheerful games," Vasitthi said, pointing
in another direction. My dear friend, from my heart I thank you; for
you have done me a kindness, in that you have given me a real, undeniable proof, that my words
have penetrated your heart, and that I do not live on for nothing: and treasure it up in your
heart, that you have caused real joy to one who is often, very often, weighed down with heaviness
and sorrow. Accordingly, the question of the admissibility of private
Punishment of the pirates by the respective scope of positive self-help law intended.

Whether such self-help right there, was not Grotius for his time, undoubtedly. For a Christian, he
teaches, whether it concern [47] "poenam sumere de improbo quoquam, praesertim capitale, quanquam
id jure gentium nonnunquam permitti diximus: laudandus unde est eorum mos populorum, apud Quos navigaturi
instruuntur mandatis a publication potestate ad persequendos piratas Quo in mari si repererint:
ut uti possint data occasione, non quasi suopte exer sed ut publice
jussi "(L. II, XX, 14) [48].

The little younger Loccenius is not for the contents of this Council, as the States granted represent
the law (de jure maritimo, 1651, p. 963, published by the Heineccius "Scriptorum de jure nautico
fasciculus", Hall 1740). This is the self-help procedures a public procedure replaced. In that
moment comes the power of the authorized Merchant ships in the effective seizure of the pirates
in the foreground, in addition to the previously Rights of the punishment
took for granted no highlighting (see Grotius and Pufendorf in the
text), and the imposition of penalty is reserved for the courts [49].

It must be assumed that the modern literature, if they have a right of private Punishment of the pirates
is assumed [50] the idea of ​​self-help law, if the admissibility seizure of private teaching,
[51] the condition of pertinent government authorization is based. Since self-help rights
with magisterial powers of individual persons can be derived only
from the domestic legal system, it is clear that the whole question
is a purely national terms.

[52]

This finding raises the question of the power of the merchant vessels triggers the arrest and
punishment of pirates in the applicable law in a way that the assertion of such a right as being
an integral part of general international law is not correct, but no less the general non-existence [53]
of such powers. State law can help themselves rights and provide transfer the exercise of police
powers, who appears to him good. A comparison of the German and North American law proves the
positivity of the developed thesis; one [54] is the authorization
of merchant ships to track pirates alien to the others [55], it can
be.

[56]

FOOTNOTES:

[38] Thus France, arrêté du Gouvernement (Kapereireglement) of 22 May 1803 Article 51 and 52, Law of
10 April 1825 Articles 10 and 16; see Pistoye et Duverdy, Traité prises of 1858 P. 33 f, the concept
of piracy in this respect is necessary narrower than the penalties the Act of 1825 (Art. 1-4) underlying
(especially in regard to Article 4, mutiny); for in Articles 1-3 of the Act, such cases are on the record,
the ship declared good prize (Dalloz, "Maritime Organization" in Volume 34 of the Répertoire de
législation, 1869, 946, 955).

Furthermore, Spain, ordinance of 20 Article 28th June 1801 So also Bluntschli, international
law 3. Ed 346, 347 Comparable to the provisions of the Brussels and
Quintuplevertrages General Act concerning the awarding of the withdrawn
vessels to the Open to ship.

[39] In Italy, confiscation of the ship
by the verdict, then sold and treatment of the proceeds as if it were
declared good prize, Cod per la mar. merc. Art. 334 para 2 (Text above n. 19). Portug. Code from the late 15th Century Book II, Title XXII a.
E. (pardessus VI p. 311). See also especially Schuback ibid. 203 f. According to the law Charles
XI. from Sweden in 1667 Part V Section 1 (pardessus III p. 169) is the associated flotsam Pirates forfeited
to the king, so also Französ. Ordinance of 1681, Book IV, Tit IX Article 18, the latter Provision
is still in force. Stranding the modern is the whole exception unknown.

§ 4

Legal opinion on the war remains applicable laws.

1. Angry pirate ships are subject to various countries all over, [38] in other individual Relations
[39] Enterprise legal treatment.

The difference of this law of the state those States that the fate of the pirate ship, only the criminal make
rules to decide on confiscation, is a not only formal, since according to him the loss of property is not
subject to a criminal offense [40].

2. The trial is one of the piratical acts in several states within the jurisdiction of military
courts.

[41] That this scheme only as a historical reminder, not as derived from factual considerations
explain is obtained, with security of their immediate execution in the French and Austrian rights.
[42] In contrast, rests the few existing expertise of the highest Land Court on political,
[43], the historical responsibility of the Admiralty [44] on local and technical considerations.

3.
The penalties against piratical acts are generally characterized by an extraordinary Hardness. However,
these explained in view of the most damaging of piracy for economic life and its underlying
anti-social attitude to Sufficient for purely criminal policy considerations. Only the Austrian
law, the Navy introduced pirates indiscriminately punished with death, and the consideration
the specific manifestation of the crime, guilt or participation, completion or Attempt to explicitly
rejects, [45] seems the view of the Pirates as a non-through the laws of war protected enemy are
not very far, especially against pirates, whose it has become lay
hands otherwise than by the Navy, the much milder Provisions of the
general criminal laws apply (StGB.

§ 190 et seq.) Similarly draconian Provisions of the English and American law have been removed in
recent times [46].

4. A very common view in the literature teaches that there is a correlate of hostility Pirates
of the human race against a power of any commercial vessel does - without State Empowerment
- taking captured and punished under certain conditions even.

This Teaching is doubly wrong, is not it such a power, but if there were, so they would not
be one of the conserved elements of the legal war piracy law to understand.

A brief look at the root of the doctrine seems to refute the most
appropriate way of it. It goes back to Grotius: "Manet tamen vetus
naturalis libertas, primum in locis, ubi judicia nulla sunt, ut in
mari. ... Idem locum habebit desertis in locis, ubi aut Nomadum more
vivitur " (De jure belli ac pacis L. II, XX, 8). But this
was only a small obstacle in relation to the horror at the thought of my parents overcame the dangers
of the road. Also heard from you and always with terrible deeds Angulimala, and I can not deny
that I am much coveted, once again in his Hands to fall. to leave a message after Kosambi
go, there was that time fully no way, so I had to make do with because of memory and confidence
in solid on the loyalty of my adored Vasitthi me put off until better times.

This came at last, too. One day, flew like wildfire the message through the city, is again of the
terrible Angulimala Satagira, the son of the minister in Kosambi, Principal beaten, slaughtered
or dispersed the gang, but the chief with many of the most outstanding Robbers were captured and executed.

Now
my parents could not resist my stormy requests.

You had in Indeed good reason to believe that now free for a long time the streets would be,
and my Father was not unwilling to try again with a caravan of his fortune. Since I was overcome
a sudden illness, and when I got back from camp, was the rainy season already so close moved
in that they only had to wait. Then I left nothing standing but also more contrary.
 Without it grows no grass, no
corn. On the hand lying upon the book there fell a bright sunbeam. Ordinance of 20 June 1801.

[59] Essay on Kaper, 1795. The numerous, often tendentious, contemporary writings on the subject
reached Martens' paper neither complete nor to penetration of the
Material.

§ 2

The state of the law.

1. Piracy and privateering.

The historical and otherwise the state-systematic opposition of privateering and piracy is that privateering
operated on the basis of a specific government authorization, as a feasible within the international
community of modern military action State power, and therefore constitutes as a political enterprise.
[60] The definition of "privateering without authorization, "contains a contradiction in terms.

Vessels
that enter war without state authorization against the enemy on Seebeute, are then under the general
law piracy. Restrict them to their hostility vehicles enemy nationality, they can not be regarded as
pirates. [61] thereto may on condition that they keep within the limits of political action,
including by not Change that they exercise over the rights of neutral
ships of belligerents.

The war opponents they must under international law of freedom to account, their actions state
law described as piracy [62], the home state is connected by international law, their action to prevent.
[63] Third States are not entitled to an intervention [64].

A ship that can be authorized by both the belligerent States to privateering
can not be regarded as a privateer, as his action of an objectified
in their political purpose completely lacking. His hostility is directed
against all nations in principle, if it is limited to neutral states
on its depredations on the capture of Kriegskontrebande, then obviously
the intent is only to enable a longer undisturbed progress of the
driver. By the way, Kolita, there are But
for one who endures to him, no return. No return after death in this World, much less during
the life after this house. This house but I'm in your Care, for you have proved faithful unto
death. Manage the house and property, to my Son reaches manhood. Greetings to my father and
my women, and Fare thee well! "

After having thus spoken, and my hand that covered the good Kolita
with kisses and tears, had cleared, I walked to the gate. A few armed horsemen to the teeth followed, then
came a man, the other decided to head taller, and finally other horsemen that strange, so inexplicable
elevator. Two of these were as a guard at the door back, the others came up to me. It struck me
that the giant in their midst could walk only with difficulty, and that at every step an uncanny
Clink and rattle sounded.

At that moment hung down a saffron Asokablume and stopped right in front of my Feet are. But
I had ceased to count with astonishment, and did not therefore determine whether they had fallen
before or after the number hundred.