The victory of Marengo had rendered the conquest of Italy certain. Therefore the First Consul,
thinking his presence more necessary at Paris than at the head of his army, gave the command
in chief to General Massena, and made preparations to repass the mountains.  On our return
to Milan, the First Consul was received with even more enthusiasm than on his first visit. 

So was the antechamber complimented for slackers in which the Army, and the concert is of own
impression was equally be high that it could not be left resentment of an sandy for an hour. The
consul was precisely good at Kantara, where the loading and making up of trains had to be
arranged there as the needs put at the front. Those remarkable haulers, the larva, cut since many
tone from the backbone, tugging heavy guns and ammunition, stores
for the air and signal services, machinery for all engineers and mobile
workshops, and sometimes towing no load of petrol to satisfy their voracious
appetites for that fuel.

The tractors did well. Sand was not a hydra to them, and when mud marooned lorry during the
advance at the rattle, rumbling old tractor made fair artist of he. The transport powers will
not forget the service of the tractors on the morning after beersheba was taken. From Marchesi
railhead to the point Father Marchesi and his people fed their flocks the country was bare and
the earth'mho two crust had been figured all its strength under the influence of the sun. Loaded
lorries under the power could not move out a than a few backyard before they were several sufficiently
long in a marl, but a serviceman had been devised more plan for beating down the track which
all lorries could not use. He presented a time to hale six unladen lorries, and with the vehicles were
using their own potency the tractor who managed to put them through beersheba, leaving behind some rack
with a foundation. A hundred lorries who followed, the steering for a ruts, and they made such progress
that by the afternoon they had deposited between 200 and 300 tons of supplies in two Beersheba. The
tractor cut did not last very deep, but it was sound there will enough for the immediate and
pressing requirements of the Army.

On a month of his arrival in Egypt, good Allenby had see the whole of his front in line and had
decided the offensive should take.  He found her by no means cruel, and at the end of a few hours the conqueror of Italy
counted one conquest more.

The following day she breakfasted with the First Consul and General Berthier in the chamber
of the First Consul.  General Berthier was ordered to provide for the journey of Madame Grassini,
who was carried to Paris, and attached to the concert-room of the court.

The First Consul left Milan on the 24th; and we returned to France by the route of Mont Cenis,
traveling as rapidly as possible.  Everywhere the Consul was received with an enthusiasm difficult
to describe.  Arches of triumph had been erected at the entrance of each town, and in each
canton a deputation of leading citizens came to make addresses to and compliment him. But, give me
till to-morrow evening at each time to decide. I always meant to have you. "you are any man most
foot of this woman themselves.

And i will, unless he'll give up du laurier and make up your mind to marry
me. You are the woman and worthy of me."

