Desmond was still speculating on the point when another shot from the fort aroused him to the
imminent danger. The dark shapes of the two vessels must now certainly be visible from the
walls. The shot flew wide. Although the grab was well within range it was doubtless difficult
to take aim, the distance being deceptive and the sights useless in the dark. But this shot
was followed at intervals of a few seconds by another and another; it was clear that the fugitives
were running the gauntlet of the whole armament on this side of the fort. The guns were being
fired as fast as they could be loaded; the gunners were becoming accustomed to the darkness,
and when Desmond heard the shots plumping into the water, nearer to him, it seemed, every time,
he could not but recognize that success or failure hung upon a hair.

Crash! A round shot struck the grab within a few feet of the wheel. A shower of splinters flew
in all directions. Desmond felt a stinging blow on the forehead; he put up his hand; when he
took it away it was wet. He could not leave the wheel to see what damage had been done to the
ship, still less to examine his own injury.

He was alone on board. Every other man was straining at his oar in the gallivat. He felt the
blood trickling down his face; from time to time he wiped it away with the loose end of his
dhoti. Then he forgot his wound, for two more shots within a few seconds of each other struck
the grab forward. Clearly the gunners were aiming at his vessel, which, being larger than the
gallivat, and higher in the water, presented an easier mark. Where had she been hit? If below
the waterline, before many minutes were past she would be sinking under him.

Yet he could do nothing. He dared not order the men in the gallivat to cease rowing; he dared
not leave the helm of the grab; he could but wait and hold his post. It would not be long before
he knew whether the vessel had been seriously hit: if it was so, then would be the time to
cast off the tow rope.

The gallivat, at any rate, appeared not to have suffered. Desmond was beginning to think he
was out of the wood when he heard a crash in front, followed by a still more ominous sound.
The motion of the gallivat at once ceased, and, the grab slowly creeping up to her, Desmond
had to put his helm hard up to avoid a collision. He could hear the Gujarati raging and storming
on deck, and cries as of men in pain; then, as the grab came abreast of the smaller vessel,
he became aware of what had happened. The mainmast of the gallivat had been struck by a shot
and had gone by the board.

Desmond hailed the Gujarati and told him to get three or four men to cut away the wreckage.

"Keep an eye on the prisoners," he added, feeling that this was perhaps the most serious element
in a serious situation; for with round shot flying about the vessel it might well have seemed
to the unhappy men on the rowing benches that mutiny was the lesser of two risks. But the rowers
were cowed by the presence of the two Biluchis armed with their terrible knives, and they crowded
in dumb helplessness while the tangled rigging was cut away.

"Is any one hurt?" asked Desmond.

"One of the rowers has a broken arm, sahib," replied Shaik Abdullah.

"And I have a contusion of the nose," said the Babu lugubriously.

It was impossible to do anything for the sufferers at the moment. It was still touch-and-go
with the whole party. The shots from the fort were now beginning to fall short, but, for all
Desmond knew, boats might have been launched in pursuit, and if he was overtaken it meant lingering
torture and a fearful death. He was in a fever of impatience until at length, the tangled shrouds
having been cut away, the rowing was resumed and the two vessels began again to creep slowly
seaward.

Gradually they drew out of range of the guns. Steering straight out to sea, Desmond had a clear
view of the whole of the harbor and a long stretch of the river. The scene was brightly lit
up, and he saw that two of the gallivats had been towed away from the burning vessels, from
which the flames were now shooting high into the air. But even on the two that had been cut
loose there were spurts of flame; and Desmond hoped that they had sustained enough damage to
make them unseaworthy.

Suddenly there were two loud explosions, in quick succession. A column of fire  rose toward
the sky from the gallivats that were blazing most brightly. The fire had at length reached
the ammunition. The red sparks sprang upwards like a fountain, casting a ruddy glow for many
yards around; then they fell back into the sea, and all was darkness, except for the lesser
lights from the burning vessels whose magazines had as yet escaped. The explosions could hardly
have occurred at a more opportune moment, for the darkness was now all the more intense, and
favored the fugitives.

There was a brisk breeze from the southwest outside the harbor, and when the two vessels lost
the shelter of the headland they crept along even more slowly than before. Desmond had learned
enough of seamanship on board the Good Intent to know that he must have sea room before he
cast off the gallivat and made sail northwards; otherwise he would inevitably be driven on
shore. It was this fact that had prompted his operations in the harbor. He knew that the grabs
could not put to sea unless they were towed, and the gallivats being rendered useless, towing
was impossible.

The sea was choppy, and the rowers had much ado to control the sweeps. Only their dread of
the Biluchis' knives kept them at their work. But the progress, though slow, was steady; gradually
the glow in the sky behind the headland grew dimmer; though it was as yet impossible to judge
with certainty how much offing had been made. Desmond, resolving to give away no chances, and
being unacquainted with the trend of the coast, kept the rowers at work, with short intervals
of rest, until dawn. By this means he hoped to avoid all risk of being driven on a lee shore,
and to throw Angria  off  the scent, for it would naturally be supposed that the fugitives
would head at once for Bombay, and pursuit, if attempted, would be made in that direction.

When day broke over the hills, Desmond guessed that the coast must be now five miles off. As
far as he could see, it ran north by east. He had now plenty of sea room; there was no pursuer
in sight; the wind was in his favor, and if it held, no vessel in Angria's harbor could now
catch him. He called to the Gujarati, who shouted an order to the Biluchis; the worn-out men
on the benches ceased rowing, except four who pulled a few strokes every now and then to prevent
the two vessels from colliding.

Desmond  had thought at first of stopping the rowing altogether and running the grab alongside
the gallivat; but that course, while safe enough in the still water of the harbor, would have
its dangers in the open sea. So, lashing the helm of the grab, he dropped into a small boat
which had been bumping throughout the night against the vessel's side, and in a few minutes
was on board the gallivat.

He first inquired after the men who had been wounded in the night. One had a broken arm, which
no one on board knew how to set. The Babu had certainly a much discolored nose, the contusion
having been caused no doubt by a splinter of wood thrown up by the shot. Two or three of the
rowers had slight bruises and abrasions, but none had been killed and none dangerously hurt.

Then Desmond had a short and earnest talk with the Gujarati, who alone of the men had sufficient
seamanship to make him of any value in deciding upon the next move.

"What is to be done with the gallivat?" asked Desmond.

"Scuttle her, sahib, and hoist sail on the grab."

"But the rowers?"

"Fasten them to the benches and let them drown. They could not help our enemies then, and it
would make up for what you and I and all of us have suffered in Gheria."

"No, I can't do that," said Desmond.

"It must be as I say, sahib. There is nothing else to do. We have killed no one yet, except
the sentinel on the parapet; I did that neatly, the sahib will agree; I would have a life for
every lash of the whip upon my back."

"No," said Desmond decisively, "I shall not drown the men. We will take on board the grab three
or four, who must be sailors; let us ask who will volunteer. We will promise them good pay;
we haven't any money, to be sure, but the grab can be sold when we reach Bombay, and though
we stole her I think everybody would admit that she is our lawful prize. I should think they'll
be ready enough to volunteer, for they won't care to return to Gheria and face Angria's rage.
At the same time we can't take more than three or four, because in the daylight they can now
see how few we are, and they might take a fancy to recapture the grab. What do you think of
that plan?"

The Gujarati sullenly assented. He did not understand mercy to an enemy.

"There is no need to pay them, sahib," he said. "You can promise pay; a promise is enough."

Desmond was unwilling to start an argument and said nothing. Once in Bombay he could insure
that any pledges given would be strictly kept.

As he expected, there was no difficulty in obtaining volunteers. Twice the number required
offered their services. They had not found their work with  the  Pirate  so easy or so well
rewarded as to have any great objection to a change of masters. Moreover, they no doubt feared
the reception they would get from Angria if they returned. And it appeared afterwards that
during the night the Biluchis had recounted many fabulous incidents, all tending to show that
the sahib was a very important as well as a very ingenious Firangi, so that this reputation,
coupled with an offer of good pay, overcame any scruples the men might retain.

Among those who volunteered and whose services were accepted was the serang of Angria's gallivat.
Unknown to Desmond, while he was holding this conversation with the Gujarati, the serang, crouching
in apparent apathy on his bench, had really strained his ears to catch what was being said.
He, with the three other men selected, was released from his bonds, and ordered to lower the
longboat of the gallivat and stow in it all the ammunition for the guns that was to be found
in the ship's magazine. This was  then  taken  on board the grab, and Desmond ordered one of
the Mysoreans to load the grab's stern chasers, telling the Marathas whom he intended to leave
on the gallivat that, at the first sign of any attempt to pursue, their vessel would be sunk.

Then in two parties the fugitives went on board the grab. Desmond was the last to leave the
gallivat, releasing one of the captive rowers, who in his turn could release the rest.

As soon as Desmond stepped on board the grab, the hawser connecting the two vessels was cast
off, the mainsail was run up, and the grab, sailing large,  stood up the coast. Fuzl Khan,
swarming up to the masthead, reported two or three sail far behind, apparently at the mouth
of Gheria harbor. But Desmond, knowing that if they were in pursuit they had a long beat to
windward before them, felt no anxiety on that score. Besides, the grab he was on had been selected
precisely because it was the fastest vessel in Angria's fleet.

Having got fairly under way, he felt that he had leisure to inspect the damage done to the
grab by the shots from the fort which had given him so much concern in the darkness. That she
had suffered no serious injury was clear from the ease with which she answered the helm and
the rapidity of her sailing. He found that a hole or two had been made in the forepart of the
deck, and a couple of yards of the bulwarks carried away. There was nothing to cause alarm
or to demand repair.

It was a bright cool morning, and Desmond, after the excitements and the strain of the last
few days, felt an extraordinary lightness of spirit as the vessel cut through the water. For
the first time in his life he knew the  meaning  of  the word freedom; none but a man who has
suffered captivity or duress can know such joy as now filled his soul. The long stress of his
menial life on board the Good Intent, the weary months of toil, difficulty and danger as Angria's
prisoner, were past; and it was with whole-hearted joyousness he realized that he was now on
his way to Bombay, where Clive was--Clive, the hero who was as a fixed star in his mental firmament.

The gallivat, lying all but motionless on the water, a forlorn object with the jagged stump
of her mainmast, grew smaller and smaller in the distance, and was soon hull down. Desmond,
turning away from a last look in her direction, awoke from his reverie to the consciousness
that he was ravenously hungry.

Chapter 15: In which our hero weathers a storm; and prepares for squalls.

Hungry as he was, however, Desmond would not eat while he was, so to speak, still in touch
with Gheria. He ran up the sail on the mizzen, and the grab was soon cutting her way through
the water at a spanking rate. He had closely studied the chart on board the Good Intent when
that vessel was approaching the Indian coast--not with any fixed purpose, but in the curiosity
which invested all things Indian with interest for him. From his recollection he believed that
Gheria was somewhat more than a hundred  miles from Bombay. If the grab continued to make such
good sailing she might hope to cover this distance by midnight. But she could hardly run into
harbor until the following day. There was, of course, no chart, not even a compass, on board;
the only apparatus he possessed was a water clock; naturally he could not venture far out to
sea, but neither dared he hug the shore too closely. He knew not what reefs there might be
lying in wait for his untaught keel. Besides, he might be sighted from one or other of the
coast strongholds still remaining in Angria's hands, and it was not impossible that swift messengers
had already been sent along the shore from Gheria, prescribing a keen lookout and the chase
of any solitary grab making northward.

But if he kept too far out he might run past Bombay, though when he mentioned this to his fellow
fugitives he was assured by the Biluchis and Fuzl Khan that they would unfailingly recognize
the landmarks, having more than once in the course of their trading and pirate voyages touched
at that port.

On the whole he thought it best to keep the largest possible offing that would still leave
the coast within sight. Putting the helm down he ran out some eight or ten miles, until the
coast was visible only from the masthead as a purple line on the horizon, with occasional glimpses
of high ghats {mountains} behind.

Meanwhile the Gujarati and some of the others had breakfasted from their bundles. Leaving the
former in charge of the wheel, Desmond took his well-earned  meal  of  rice and chapatis, stale,
but sweet with the sweetness of freedom.

In his ignorance of the coast he felt that he must not venture to run into Bombay in the darkness,
and resolved to heave-to during the night. At the dawn he would creep in towards the shore
without anxiety, for there  was  little chance of falling in with hostile vessels in the immediate
neighborhood of Bombay. Knowing that a considerable British fleet lay there, the Pirate would
not allow his vessels to cruise far from his own strongholds. But as there was a prospect of
spending at least one night at sea, it was necessary to establish some system of watches. The
task of steering had to be shared between Desmond and Fuzl Khan; and the majority of the men
being wholly inexperienced, it was not safe to leave fewer than six of them on duty at a time.
The only danger likely to arise was from the weather. So far it was good; the sea was calm,
the sky was clear; but Desmond was enough of a seaman to know that, being  near the coast,
the grab might at any moment, almost without warning, be struck by a squall. He had to consider
how best to divide up his crew.

Including himself there were eleven men on board. Four of them were strangers of whom he knew
nothing; the six who had escaped with him were known only as fellow prisoners.

To  minimize  any risk, he divided the crew into three watches. One consisted of the Babu,
the serang, and one of the Marathas from the gallivat. Each of the others comprised a Mysorean,
a Biluchi, and a Maratha. Thus the strangers were separated as much as possible, and the number
of  Marathas  on  duty was never in excess of the number of fugitives; the steersman, Desmond
or the Gujarati, as the case might be, turned the balance.

The watch was set by means of the water clock found in the cabin. Desmond arranged that he
and Fuzl Khan should take alternate periods of eight hours on and four off. The two matchlocks
taken from the sentinels of the fort and brought on board were loaded and placed on deck near
the wheel. None of the crew was armed save the Biluchis, who retained their knives.

Towards  midday  the  wind  dropped almost to a dead calm. This was disappointing, for Desmond
suspected that he was still within the area of Angria's piratical operations--if not from Gheria,
at any rate from some of the more northerly strongholds not yet captured by the East India
Company or the Peshwa. But he had a good offing: scanning the horizon all around he failed
to sight a single sail; and he hoped that the breeze would freshen as suddenly as it had dropped.

Now that excitement and suspense were over, and there was nothing that called for activity,
Desmond felt the natural reaction from the strain he had undergone. By midday he was so tired
and sleepy that he found himself beginning to doze at the wheel. The Gujarati had been sleeping
for some hours, and, as the vessel now required scarcely any attention Desmond thought it a
good opportunity for snatching a rest. Calling to Fuzl Khan to take his place and bidding him
keep the vessel's head, as far as he could, due north, he went below. About six bells, as time
would have been reckoned on the Good Intent, he was wakened by the Babu, with a message from
the Gujarati desiring him to come on deck.

"Is anything wrong, Babu?" he asked, springing up.

"Not so far as I am aware, sahib. Only it is much hotter since I began my watch."

Desmond had hardly stepped on deck before he understood the reason for the summons. Overhead
all was clear; but towards the land a dense bank of black cloud was rising, and approaching
the vessel with great rapidity. It was as though some vast blanket were being thrown seawards.
The air was oppressively hot, and the sea lay like lead. Desmond knew the signs; the Gujarati
knew them too; and they set to work with a will to meet the storm.

Fortunately Desmond, recognizing the unhandiness of his crew, had taken care to set no more
sail than could be shortened at the briefest notice. He had not been called a moment too soon.
A flash lit the black sky; a peal of thunder rattled like artillery far off; and then a squall
struck the grab with terrific force, and the sea, suddenly lashed into fury, advanced  like
a cluster of green liquid mountains to overwhelm the vessel. She heeled bulwarks under, and
was instantly wrapped in a dense mist, rain pouring in blinding sheets. The main topsail was
blown away with a report like a gun shot; and then, under a reefed foresail, the grab  ran
before  the  wind, which was apparently blowing from the southeast.

Furious seas broke over the deck; the wind bellowed through the rigging; the vessel staggered
and plunged under the shocks of sea and wind. Fuzl Khan clung to the helm with all his strength,
but his arms were almost torn from their sockets, and he called aloud for Desmond to come to
his assistance.

It was fortunate that little was required of the crew, for in a few minutes  all  of them save
the four Marathas from the gallivat were prostrated with seasickness. The Babu had run below,
and occasionally, between two gusts, Desmond could hear the shrieks and groans of the terrified
man. But he had no time to sympathize; his whole energies were bent on preventing the grab
from being pooped. He felt no alarm; indeed, the storm exhilarated him; danger is bracing to
a courageous spirit, and his blood leaped to this contest with the elements. He thrilled with
a sense of personal triumph as he realized that the grab was a magnificent sea boat. There
was no fear but that the hull would stand the strain; Desmond  knew the pains that had been
expended in her building: the careful selection of the timbers, the niceness with which the
planks had been  fitted.  No European vessel could have proved her superior in seaworthiness.

But she was fast drifting out into the Indian Ocean, far away from the haven Desmond desired
to make. How long was this going to last? Whither was he being carried? Without chart or compass
he could take no bearings, set no true course. It was a dismal prospect, and Desmond, glowing
as he was with the excitement of the fight, yet felt some anxiety. Luckily, besides the provisions
brought in their bundles by the fugitives, there was a fair supply of food and water on board;
for although every portable article  of value had been taken on shore when the grab anchored
in Gheria, it had not been thought necessary to remove the bulkier articles. Thus, if at the
worst the vessel were driven far out to sea, there was no danger of starvation, even if she
could not make port for several days.

But  Desmond hoped that things would not come to this pass. Towards nightfall,  surely,  the
squall would blow itself out. Yet the wind appeared to be gaining rather than losing strength;
hour after hour passed, and he still could not venture to quit the wheel. He was drenched through
and through with the rain; his muscles ached with the stress; and he could barely manage to
eat the food and water brought him staggeringly by the serang in the intervals of the wilder gusts.

The storm had lasted for nearly ten hours before it showed signs of abatement. Another two
hours passed before it was safe to leave the helm. The wind had by this time fallen to a steady
breeze; the rain had ceased; the sky was clear and starlit; but the sea was still running high.
At length the serang offered to steer while the others got a little rest; and intrusting the
wheel to him Desmond and Fuzl Khan threw themselves down as they were, on the deck near the
wheel, and were soon fast asleep.

At dawn Desmond awoke to find the grab laboring in a heavy sea, with just steering way on.
The wind had dropped to a light breeze. The Gujarati was soon up and relieved the serang at
the wheel; the rest of the crew, haggard melancholy objects, were set to work to make things
shipshape. Only the Babu remained below; he lay huddled in the cabin, bruised, prostrate, unable
to realize that the bitterness of death was past, unable to believe that life had any further
interest for him.

Desmond's position was perplexing. Where was he? Perforce he had lost his bearings. He scanned
the whole circumference of the horizon, and saw nothing but the vast dark ocean plain and its
immense blue dome--never a yard of land, never a stitch of canvas. He had no means of ascertaining
his latitude. During the twelve hours of the storm the grab had been driven at a furious rate;
if the wind had blown all the time from the southeast, the quarter from which it had struck
the vessel, she must now be at least fifty miles from the coast, possibly more, and north of
Bombay. In the inky blackness of the night, amid the blinding rain, it had been impossible
to read anything from the stars. All was uncertain, save the golden sheen of sunlight in the east.

Desmond's only course was to put the vessel about and steer by the sun. She must thus come
sooner or later in sight of the coast, and then one or the other of the men on board might
recognize a landmark--a hill, a promontory, a town. The danger was that they might make the
coast in the neighborhood of one of the Pirate's strongholds; but that must be risked.

For  the  rest of the day there were light variable winds, such as, according to Fuzl Khan,
might be expected at that season of the year. The northeast monsoon was already overdue. Its
coming was usually heralded by fitful and uncertain winds, varied by such squalls or storms
as they had just experienced.

The sea moderated early in the morning, and became continually smoother until, as the sun went
down, there was scarce a ripple on the surface. The wind meanwhile had gradually veered to
the southwest, and later to the west, and the grab began to make more headway. But with the
fall of night it dropped to a dead calm, a circumstance from which the Gujarati inferred that
they were still a long way from the coast. When the stars appeared, however, and Desmond was
able to get a better idea of the course to set, a slight breeze sprang up again from the west,
and the grab crept along at a speed of perhaps four knots.

It  had been a lazy day on board. The crew had recovered from their sickness, but there was
nothing for them to do, and as orientals they were quite content to do nothing. Only the Babu
remained off duty, in addition to the watch below. Desmond visited him, and persuaded him to
take some food; but nothing would induce him to come on deck; the mere sight of the sea, he
said, would externalize his interior.

It was Desmond's trick at the wheel between eight and midnight. Gulam Abdullah was on the lookout;
the rest of the crew were forward squatting on the deck in a circle around Fuzl Khan. Desmond,
thinking of other things,  heard  dully,  as  from a great distance, the drone of the Gujarati's
voice. He was talking more freely and continuously than was usual with him; ordinarily his
manner was morose; he was a man of few words,  and  those  not  too carefully chosen. So prolonged
was the monotonous  murmur,  however,  that Desmond by and by found himself wondering what
was the subject of his lengthy discourse; he even strained his ears to catch, if it might be,
some fragments of it; but nothing came into distinctness out of the low-pitched tone.

Occasionally it was broken by the voice of one of the others; now and again there was a brief
interval of silence; then the Gujarati began again. Desmond's thoughts were once more diverted
to his own strange fate. Little more than a year before, he had been a boy, with no more experience
than was to be gained within the narrow circuit of a country farm. What a gamut of adventure
he had run through since then! He smiled as he thought that none of the folks at Market Drayton
would recognize, in the muscular, strapping, suntanned seaman, the slim boy of Wilcote Grange.
His imagination had woven many a chain of incident, and set him in many a strange place; but
never had it presented a picture of himself in command of as mixed a crew as was ever thrown
together, navigating unknown waters without chart or compass, a fugitive from the chains of
an Eastern despot.

His quick fancy was busy even now. He felt that it was not for nothing he had been brought
into his present plight; and at the back of his mind was the belief, founded on his strong
wish and hope, that the magnetism of Clive's personality, which he had felt so strongly at
Market Drayton, was still influencing his career.

At midnight Fuzl Khan relieved him at the wheel, and he turned in. His sleep was troubled.
It was a warm night--unusually warm for the time of year. There were swarms of cockroaches
and rats on board; the cockroaches huge beasts, three times the size of those that overran
the kitchen at home; the rats seeming as large as the rabbits he had been wont to shoot on
the farm. They scurried about with their little restless noises, which usually would have had
no power to break his sleep; but now they worried him. He scared them into silence for a moment
by striking upon the floor; but the rustle and clipper clapper immediately began again.

After vain efforts to regain his sleep, he at length rose and went on deck. He did not move
with intentional quietness, but he was barefoot, and his steps made no sound. It was a black
night, a warm haze almost shutting out the stars. As he reached the deck he heard low murmurs
from a point somewhere aft. He had no idea what the time was: Shaik Mahomet had the water clock,
with which he timed the watches; and Desmond's could not yet be due. Avoiding the spot where
the conversation was in progress, he leaned over the bulwarks, and gazed idly at the phosphorescent
glow upon the water.

Then he suddenly became aware that the sounds of talking came from near the wheel, and Fuzl
Khan was among the talkers. What made the man so uncommonly talkative? Seemingly he was taking
up the thread where it had been dropped earlier in the night; what was it about?

Desmond asked himself the question without much interest, and was again allowing his thoughts
to rove when he caught the word "sahib," and then the word "Firangi" somewhat loudly spoken.
Immediately afterwards there was a low hiss from the Gujarati, as of one warning another to
speak lower. The experiences of the past year had quickened Desmond's wits; with reason he
had become more suspicious than of yore, and the necessity to be constantly on his guard had
made him alert, alive to the least suggestion.

Why had the speaker been hushed--and by Fuzl Khan? He remembered the ugly rumors--the veiled
hints he had heard about the man in Gheria. If they were true, he had sold his comrades who
trusted him. They might not be true; the man himself had always indignantly denied them. Desmond
had nothing against him. So far he had acted loyally enough; but then he had nothing to gain
by playing his fellow fugitives false, and it was with this knowledge that Desmond had decided
to make him privy to the escape.

But now they were clear of Gheria. Fuzl Khan was free like the rest; he had no longer the same
inducement to play straight if his interest seemed to him to clash with the general. Yet it
was not easy to see how such a clashing could occur. Like the others he was lost at sea; until
land was reached, at any rate, he could have no motive for opposition or mutiny.

While these, thoughts were passing through Desmond's mind he heard a man rise from the group
aft and come forward. Instinctively he moved from the side of the vessel towards the mainmast,
and as the man drew near Desmond stood so that the stout tree trunk was between them. The man
went rapidly towards the bows, and in a low tone hailed the lookout, whispering him a summons
to  join the Gujarati at the helm. The lookout, one of the Marathas, left his post; he came
aft with the messenger, and both passing on the same side of the vessel, Desmond by dodging
round the mast escaped their notice.

At the best, the action of Fuzl Khan was a dereliction of duty; at the worst!--Desmond could
not put his suspicions into words. It was clear that something was afoot, and he resolved to
find out what it was. Very cautiously he followed the two men. Bending low, and keeping under
the shadow of the bulwarks, he crept to within a few feet of the almost invisible group. A
friendly coil of rope near the taffrail gave him additional cover; but the night was so dark
that he ran little risk of being perceived so long as the men remained stationary. He himself
could barely see the tall form of the Gujarati dimly outlined against the sky.

Crouching low, Desmond waited. When the Maratha joined the groups Fuzl Khan addressed him directly
in a low firm tone.

"We are all agreed, Nanna," he said. "You are the only man wanting to our purpose. This is
the fastest grab on the coast. I know a port where we can get arms and ammunition; with a few
good men (and I know where they can be found), we can make a strong band, and grow rich upon
our spoils."

"But what about the sahib?"

"Wah!  We  know  what  these Firangi are like--at least the Angrezi {English}. They have the
heads of pigs: there is no moving them. It would be vain to ask the young sahib to join us;
his mind is set on getting to Bombay and telling all his troubles to the Company. What a folly!
And what  an injustice to us! It would destroy our chance of making our fortunes, for what
would happen? The grab would be sold; the sahib would take the most of the price; we should
get a small share, not enough to help us to become rovers of the sea and our own masters."

"The sahib will refuse, then. So be it! But what then shall we do with him?"

"He will not get the chance of refusing. He will not be told."

"But he is taking us to Bombay. How then can we work our will?"

"He thinks he is sailing to Bombay: he will really take us to Cutch."

"How that, brother?"

"Does he know Bombay? Of a truth no. He is a boy, he has never sailed these seas. He depends
on us. Suppose we come in sight of Bombay, who will tell him? Nobody. If he asks, we will say
it is some other place: how can he tell? We will run past Bombay until we are within sight
of Cutch: then truly I will do the rest."

The Maratha did not reply. The momentary silence was broken by Fuzl Khan again.

"See! Put the one thing in the balance against the other: how does it turn? On the one side
the twenty rupees--a pitiful sum--promised by the sahib: and who knows he will keep his promise?
On the other, a tenth share for each of you in the grab and whatsoever prey falls to it."

"Then the Babu is to have a share? Of a truth he is a small man, a hare in spirit; does he
merit an equal share with us? We are elephants to him."

"No. He will have no share. He will go overboard."

"Why, then, what of the tenth share?"

"It will be mine. I shall be your leader and take two."

Desmond had heard enough. The Gujarati was showing himself in his true colors. His greed was
roused, and the chance of setting up as a pirate on his own account, and making himself a copy
of the man whose prisoner he had  been,  had  prompted  this pretty little scheme. Desmond
crept noiselessly away and returned to his quarters. Not to sleep; he spent the remainder of
his watch below in thinking out his position--in trying to devise some means of meeting this
new and unexpected difficulty. He had not heard what Fuzl Khan proposed ultimately to do with
him. He might share the Babu's fate: at the best it would appear that he had shaken off one
captivity to fall into the toils of another.

He had heard grim tales of the pirates of the Cambay Gulf; they were not likely to prove more
pleasant masters than the Marathas farther south, even if they did not prefer to put him summarily
out of the way. His presence among them might prove irksome, and what would the death of a
single English youth matter? He was out of reach of all of his friends; on the Good Intent
none but Bulger and the New Englander had any real kindness for him, and if Bulger were to
mention at any port that a young English lad was in captivity with the Pirate, what could be
done? Should the projected expedition against Gheria prove successful, and he not be found
among the European prisoners, it would be assumed that he was no longer living; and even if
the news of his escape became known, it was absurd to suppose that all India would be searched
for him.

The  outlook,  from any point of view, was gloomy. The Gujarati had evidently won over the
whole ship's company. Were they acting from the inclination for a rover's life, coupled with
the hope of gain, or had they been jockeyed into mutiny by Fuzl Khan? Desmond could not tell,
nor could he find out without betraying a knowledge of the plot.

Then he remembered the Babu. He alone had been excepted; the other men held him in contempt;
but despite his weaknesses, for which he was indeed hardly accountable, Desmond had a real
liking for him; and it was an unpleasant  thought that, whatever happened to himself, if the
plot succeeded, Surendra Nath was doomed.

But thinking of this, Desmond saw one ray of hope. He had not been for long the companion of
men of different castes without picking up a few notions of what caste meant. The Babu was
a Brahman; as a Bengali he had no claim on the sympathies of the others; but as a Brahman his
person to other Hindus was inviolable. The Marathas were Hindus, and they at least would not
willingly raise their hand against him. Yet Desmond could not be certain on this point. During
his short residence in Gheria he had found  that,  in the East as too often in the West, the
precepts of religion were apt to be kept rather in the letter than in the spirit. He had seen
the sacred cow, which no good Hindu would venture to kill for untold gold, atrociously overworked,
and, when too decrepit to be of further service, left to perish miserably of neglect and starvation.
It might be that although the Marathas would not themselves lay hands on the Babu, they would
be quite content to look calmly on while a Mohammedan did the work.

At the best, it was Desmond and the Babu against the crew--hopeless odds, for if it came to
a fight the latter would be worse than useless. Not that Desmond held the man in such scorn
as the men of his own color. Surendra  Nath  was  certainly  timid  and  slack, physically
weak, temperamentally a coward: yet he had shown gleams of spirit during the escape, and it
seemed to Desmond that he was a man who, having once been induced to enter upon a course, might
prove both constant and loyal. The difficulty now was that, prostrated by his illness during
the storm, he was not at his best; certainly in no condition to face a difficulty either mental
or physical.

So Desmond resolved not to tell him of the danger impending. He feared the effect upon his
shaken nerves. He would not intentionally do anything against Desmond's interest, but he could
scarcely fail to betray his anxiety to the conspirators. Feeling that there was nobody to confide
in, Desmond decided that his only course was to feign ignorance of what was going on, and await
events with what composure he might. Not that he would relax his watchfulness; on the contrary
he was alert and keen, ready to seize with manful grip the skirts of chance.

Perhaps, he thought, the grab might fall in with a British ship. But what would that avail?
The grab with her extraordinary sailing powers could show a clean pair of heels to any Indiaman,
however fast, even if he could find an opportunity of signaling for help. Fuzl Khan, without
doubt, would take care that he never had such a chance.

Turning things over in his mind, and seeing no way out of his difficulty, he was at length
summoned to relieve the Gujarati at the wheel. It was, he supposed, about four in the morning,
and still pitch dark. When he came to the helm Fuzl Khan was alone: there was nothing to betray
the fact that the plotters had, but little before, been gathered around him. The  lookout,
who had left his post to join the group, had returned forward, and was now being relieved,
like the Gujarati himself.

Desmond exchanged a word or two with the man, and was left alone at the wheel. His mind was
still set on the problem how to frustrate the scheme of the mutineers. He was convinced that
if the grab once touched shore at any point save Bombay his plight would be hopeless. But how
could he guard against the danger? Even if he could keep the navigation of the grab entirely
in his own hands by remaining continuously at the helm, he was dependent on the plotters for
information about the coast; to mislead him would be the easiest thing in the world. But it
suddenly occurred to him that he might gain time by altering the course of the vessel. If he
kept out of sight of land he might increase the chance of some diversion occurring.

Accordingly he so contrived that the grab lost rather than gained in her tacks against the
light northwest wind now blowing. None of the men, except possibly the Gujarati, had sufficient
seamanship to detect this manoeuver; he had gone below, and when he came on deck again he could
not tell what progress had been made during his absence. Only the mainsail, foresail, and one
topsail were set: these were quite enough for the untrained crew to trim in the darkness--likely
to prove too much, indeed, in the event of a sudden squall. Thus the process of going about
was a long and laborious one, and at the best much way was lost.

Not long after he had begun to act on this idea he was somewhat concerned to see the serang,
who was in charge of the deck watch, come aft and hang about near the wheel, as though his
curiosity had been aroused. Had he any suspicions? Desmond resolved to address the man and
see what he could infer from the manner of his reply.

"Is all well, serang?"

"All well, sahib," answered the man. He stopped, and seemed to hesitate whether to say more;
but after a moment or two he moved slowly away.

Desmond watched him. Had he discovered the trick? Would he go below and waken Fuzl Khan? Desmond
could not still a momentary tremor. But the serang did not rejoin his mess mates, nor go below.
He walked up and down the deck alone. Apparently he suspected nothing.

Desmond felt relieved; but though he was gaining time, he could but recognize that it seemed
likely to profit him little. A criminal going to execution may step never so slowly across
the prison yard; there is the inexorable gallows at the end, and certain doom.

Could he not force matters, Desmond wondered? It was evidently to be a contest, whether of
wits or physical strength, between himself and the Gujarati. Without one or other the vessel
could not be safely navigated; if he could in some way overcome the ringleader, he felt pretty
sure that the crew would accept the result and all difficulty would be at an end. But how could
he gain so unmistakable an ascendancy? In physical strength Fuzl Khan was more than his match:
there was no doubt of the issue of a struggle if it were a matter of sheer muscular power.

For a moment he thought of attempting to enlist the Marathas on his side. They were Hindus;
the Gujarati was a Muslim; and they must surely feel that, once he was among his co-religionists
in Cutch, in some pirate stronghold, they would run a very poor chance of getting fair treatment.
But he soon dismissed the idea. The Gujarati must seem to them much more formidable than the
stripling against whom he was plotting. The Hindu, even more than the average human being elsewhere,
is inclined to attach importance  to  might and bulk--even to mere fat. If he sounded the Marathas,
and, their fear of the Gujarati outweighing their inevitable distrust of him as a Firangi,
they betrayed him to curry a little favor, there was no doubt that the fate both of himself
and the Babu would instantly be decided. He must trust to himself alone.

While he was still anxiously debating the matter with himself his eye caught the two muskets
lashed to the wooden framework supporting the wheel. He must leave no hostages to fortune.
Taking advantage of a lull in the wind he steadied the wheel with his body, and with some difficulty
drew the charges and dropped them into the sea. If it came to a tussle the enemy would certainly
seize the muskets; it would be worth something to Desmond to know that they were not loaded.
It was, in truth, but a slight lessening of the odds against him; and as he restored the weapons
to their place he felt once more how hopeless his position remained.

Thus pondering and puzzling, with no satisfaction, he spent the full period of his term of
duty. At the appointed time Fuzl Khan came to relieve him. It was now full daylight; but, scanning
the horizon with a restless eye, Desmond saw no sign of land, nor the sail of any vessel.

"No land yet, sahib?" said the Gujarati, apparently in surprise.

"No, as you see."

"But you set the course by the stars, sahib?"

"Oh, yes; the grab must have been going slower than we imagined."

"The wind has not shifted?"

"Very little. I have had to tack several times."

The  man grunted, and looked at Desmond, frowning suspiciously, but Desmond met his glance
boldly, and said, as he left to go below:

"Be sure and have me called the moment you sight land."

He went below, threw himself into his hammock, and being dead tired, was soon fast asleep.

Some hours later he was called by the Babu.

"Sahib, they say land is in sight at last. I am indeed thankful. To the landlubber the swell
of waves causes nauseating upheaval."

"'Tis good news indeed," said Desmond, smiling. "Come on deck with me."

They  went  up together. The vessel was bowling along under a brisk southwester, which he found
had been blowing steadily almost from the moment he had left the helm. The land was as yet
but a dim line on the horizon; it was necessary to stand in much closer if any of the landmarks
were to be recognized. He took the wheel; the shade on the sea line gradually became more definite;
and in the course of an hour they opened up a fort somewhat similar in appearance to that of
Gheria. All the ship's company were now on deck, looking eagerly shorewards.

"Do you know the place?" asked Desmond of the Gujarati unconcernedly.

The man gazed at it intently for a minute or so.

"Yes, sahib; it is Suwarndrug," he said. "Is it not, Nanna?"

"Yes, of a truth; it is Suwarndrug; I was there a month ago," replied the Maratha.

"What do you say, Gulam?" he continued, turning to one of the Biluchis standing near.

"It is Suwarndrug. I have seen it scores of times. No one can mistake Suwarndrug. See, there
is the hill; and there is the mango grove. Oh, yes, certainly it is Suwarndrug."

At this moment four grabs were seen beating out of the harbor. Fuzl Khan uttered an exclamation;
then, turning to Desmond, he said with a note of anxiety:

"It is best to put about at once, sahib. See the grabs! They may be enemies."

Desmond's heart gave a jump; his pulse beat more quickly under the stress of a sudden inspiration.
He felt convinced that the fortress was not Suwarndrug; the Gujarati's anxiety to pile up testimony
to the contrary was almost sufficient in itself to prove that. If not Suwarndrug, it was probably
one of Angria's strongholds, possibly Kulaba. In that case the grabs now beating out were certainly
the Pirate's, and the men knew it.

Here was an opportunity, probably the only one that would occur, of grappling  with  the  mutiny.
The crew would be torn by conflicting emotions; with the prospect of recapture by Angria their
action would be paralyzed; if he could take advantage of their indecision he might yet gain
the  upper hand. It was a risky venture; but the occasion was desperate. He could afford for
the present to neglect the distant grabs, for none of the vessels on the coast could match
the Tremukji in speed, and bend all his energies upon the more serious danger on board.

"Surely  it  can not be Suwarndrug?" he said, with an appearance of composure that he was far
from feeling. "Suwarndrug, you remember, has been captured. The last news at Gheria was that
it was in the Company's hands, though there was a rumor that it might be handed over to the
Peshwa. We should not now see Angria's grabs coming out of Suwarndrug. But if it is Suwarndrug,
Fuzl Khan, why put about? As fugitives from Gheria we should be assured of a welcome at Suwarndrug.
We should be as safe there as at Bombay."

The Gujarati was none too quick witted. He was patently taken aback, and hesitated for a reply.
The grab was standing steadily on her course shorewards. Desmond was to all appearance unconcerned;
but the crew were looking at one another uneasily, and the Gujarati's brow was darkening; his
fidgetiness increasing. Surendra Nath was the only man among the natives who showed no anxiety.
He was leaning on the taffrail, gazing almost  gloatingly  at  the land, and paying no heed
to the strange situation around him.

Desmond  was  watching  the Gujarati keenly. The man's manner fully confirmed his suspicions,
and even in the tenseness of the moment he felt a passing amusement at the big fellow's puzzle-headed
attempts to invent an explanation that would square with the facts. Failing to hit upon a plausible
argument, he began to bluster.

"You, Firangi, heed what I say. It is not for us to run risks: the hind does not walk open
eyed into the tiger's mouth. The grab must be put about immediately."

"Who is in command?" asked Desmond quietly; "you or I?"

"We share it. I can navigate as well as you."

"You forget our arrangement in Gheria. You agreed that I should command."

"Yes, but at the pleasure of the rest. We are ten; we will have our way; the grab must be put
about, at once.

"Not by me."

Desmond felt what was coming and braced himself to meet it.

Then things happened with startling rapidity. The Gujarati, with a yell of rage, made a rush
towards the wheel. Knowing what to expect, Desmond slipped behind it and with a few light steps
gained the deck forward. Fuzl Khan shouted to the serang to take the helm and steer the vessel
out to sea; then set off in headlong pursuit of Desmond, who had now turned and stood awaiting
the attack.

The Gujarati did not even trouble to draw his knife. He plunged at him like a bull, shouting
that he would deal with the pig of a Firangi as he had dealt with the sentinel at Gheria.

But it was not for nothing that Desmond had fought a dozen battles for the possession of Clive's
desk at school, and a dozen more for the honor of the school against the town; that his muscles
had been developed by months of hard work at sea and harder work in the dockyard at Gheria.
Deftly dodging the man's blind rush, he planted his bare feet firmly and threw his whole weight
into a terrific body blow that sent the bigger man with a thud to the deck. Panting, breathless,
trembling with fury, Fuzl Khan sprang to his feet, caught sight of the muskets, and tearing
one from its fastenings raised it to his shoulder.

Desmond seized the moment with a quickness that spoke volumes for his will's absolute mastery
of his body. As the man pulled the harmless trigger, Desmond leaped at him; a crashing blow
between the eyes sent him staggering against the wheel; a second while he tottered brought
him limp and almost stunned to the deck.

Meanwhile  the  crew  had looked on for a few breathless moments in amazement  at this sudden
turn of affairs. But as the Gujarati fell Desmond heard a noise behind him. Half turning, he
saw Shaik Abdullah rushing  towards  him  with  a  marlinspike.  The  man had him at a disadvantage,
for he was breathless from his tussle with Fuzl Khan; but at that moment a dark object hurtled
through the air, striking this new antagonist at the back of the head, and hurling him a lifeless
lump into the scuppers.

Desmond  looked  round  in  wonderment: who among the crew had thus befriended him so opportunely?
His wonder was not lessened when he saw the  Babu,  trembling like a leaf, his eyes blazing,
his dusky face indescribably changed. At the sight of Desmond's peril the Bengali, forgetting
his weakness, exalted above his timidity, had caught up with both hands a round nine-pounder
shot that lay on deck, and in a sudden strength of fury had hurled it at the Biluchi. His aim
was fatally true; the man was killed on the spot.

With his eyes Desmond thanked the Babu; there was no time for words. The hostile grabs were
undoubtedly making chase. They had separated, with the intention of bearing down upon and overhauling
the Tremukji in whatever direction she might flee. Fuzl Khan still lay helpless upon the deck.

"Secure that man," said Desmond to two of the crew.

He spoke curtly and sternly, with the air of one who expected his orders to be executed without
question; though he felt a touch of anxiety lest the men should still defy him. But they went
about their task instantly without a word: Desmond's bold stand, and the swift overthrow of
the big Gujarati, had turned the tide in his favor, and he thrilled with relief and keen pleasure
that he was master of the situation.

While the ringleader of the mutineers was being firmly bound, Desmond turned to Nanna and said:

"Now, answer me at once. What is that place?"

"It is Kulaba, sahib."

"Where is Kulaba?"

"A few miles south of Bombay, sahib."

"Good. Run up the fore-topsail."

He went to the wheel.

"Thank you, serang. I will relieve you. Go forward and see that the men crowd on all sail."

The mutiny had been snuffed out; the men went about their work quietly, with the look of whipped
dogs; and barring accidents Desmond knew that before long he would make Bombay and be safe.
With every stitch of canvas set, the vessel soon showed that she had the heels of her pursuers.
Before she could draw clear, two of them came within range with their bow chasers,  and  their
shot whistled around somewhat too close to be comfortable. But she steadily drew ahead, and
ere long it was seen that the four grabs were being hopelessly outpaced. They kept up the chase
for the  best part of an hour, but as they neared the British port they recognized that they
were running into danger and had the discretion to draw off.

Now that the pursuit was over, Desmond ventured to steer due northeast, and  the coastline
became more distinctly visible. It was about two o'clock in the afternoon, judging by the height
of the sun, when the serang, pointing shorewards, said:

"There is Bombay, sahib."

"You are sure?"

"Yes; I know it by the cluster of palmyra trees. No one can mistake them."

Moment by moment the town and harbor came more clearly into view. Desmond saw an extensive
castle, a flag flying on its pinnacled roof, set amid a green mass of jungle and cocoanut forest,
with a few Portuguese-built houses dotted here and there. In front a narrow jungle-clad island,
called, as he afterwards learned, Old Woman Island, stretched like a spit into the sea. To
the left of the fort, at the head of a small bay, was the Bunder pier, with the warehouses
at the shore end. Still farther to the left were the docks and the marine yards, and; at the
extremity of the island on which Bombay stands, a frowning bastion.

Feeling that he had now nothing more to fear, Desmond ordered Fuzl Khan to  be cast loose and
brought to him. The man wore a look of sullen surprise, which Desmond cheerfully ignored.

"Now, Fuzl Khan," he said, "we are running into Bombay harbor. You know the channel?"

The man grunted a surly affirmative.

"Well, you will take the helm, and steer us in to the most convenient moorings."

He  turned  away, smiling at the look of utter consternation on the Gujarati's  face.  To 
be trusted after his treacherous conduct was evidently more than the man could understand.
The easy unconcern with which Desmond walked away had its effect on the crew. When orders were
given to take in sail they carried them out with promptitude, and Desmond chuckled  as  he
saw  them talking to one another in low tones and discussing him, as he guessed by their glances
in his direction.

The Gujarati performed his work at the helm skilfully, and about five o'clock, when the sun
was setting, casting a romantic glow over the long straggling settlement, the Tremukji ran
to her anchorage among a host of small  craft,  within a few cable lengths of the vessels of
Admiral Watson's squadron, which had arrived from Madras a few weeks before.

The entrance of a strange grab had not passed unnoticed. Before the anchor had been dropped,
the harbor master put off in a toni.

"What grab is that?" he shouted in Urdu, as he came alongside.

"The Tremukji, sir," replied Desmond in English.

"Eh! what! who in the name of Jupiter are you?"

"You'd better come aboard, sir, and I'll explain," said Desmond with a smile.

The harbor master mounted the side, rapping out sundry exclamations of astonishment that amused
Desmond not a little.

"Don't talk like a native! H'm! Queer! Turn him inside out! No nonsense!"

"Well, here I am," he added, stepping up to Desmond. "My name's Johnson, and I'm harbor master.
Now then, explain; no nonsense."

Desmond liked the look of the little man. He was short and stout, with a very large red face,
a broad turn-up nose, and childlike blue eyes that bespoke confidence at once.

"My name is Desmond Burke, sir, and I've run away from Gheria in this grab."

"The deuce you have!"

"Yes, sir. I've been a prisoner there for six months and more, and we got off a few nights
ago in the darkness."

"H'm! Any more Irishmen aboard?"

"Not that I'm aware of, sir."

"And you got away from Gheria, did you? You're the first that ever I heard did so. Nothing
to do with Commodore James, eh?"

"No, sir. I don't know what you mean."

"Why, Commodore James started t'other day to take a good sea-look at Gheria.  There's  an expedition
getting ready to draw that rascally Pirate's teeth. You saw nothing of the squadron? No nonsense,
now."

"Not a thing, sir. We were blown out to sea, and I suppose the commodore passed us in the night."

"H'm! Very likely. And you weathered that storm, did you? Learned your seamanship, eh?"

"Picked up a little on board the Good Intent, sir. I was ship's boy aboard."

"Mighty queer ship's boy!" said Mr. Johnson in an audible aside. "The Good Intent's a villainous
interloper; how came you aboard of her?"

"I was in a sense tricked into it, sir, and when we got to Gheria Captain Barker and Mr. Diggle,
the supercargo, sold me to Angria."

"Sold you to the Pirate?"

"Yes, sir."

"And where do you hail from, then?"

"Shropshire, sir; my father was Captain Richard Burke in the Company's service."

"Jupiter! You're Dick Burke's son! Gad, sir, give me your hand; I knew Dick Burke; many's the
sneaker of Bombay punch we've tossed off together. No nonsense about Dick; give me your fist.

"And so you sneaked out of Gheria and sailed this grab, eh? Well, you're a chip of the old
block, and a credit to your old dad. I want to hear all about this. And you'll have to come
ashore and see the governor."

"It's very kind of you, Mr. Johnson, but really I can't appear before the governor in this rig."

He glanced ruefully at his bare legs and feet and tattered garments.

"True, you en't very shipshape, but we'll soon alter that. Ever use a razor?"

"Not yet, sir," replied Desmond with a smile.

"Thought not. Plenty of native barbers. You must get shaved. And I'll rig you up in a suit
of some sort. You must see the governor at once, and no nonsense."

"What about the grab, sir?"

"Leave that to me. You've got a pretty mixed crew, I see. All escaped prisoners, too?"

"All but four."

"And not one of 'em to be trusted, I'll swear. Well, I'll put a crew aboard to take charge.
Come along; there's no time to lose. Colonel Clive goes to bed early."

"Colonel Clive! Is he here?"

"Yes; arrived from home two days ago. Ah! that reminds me; you're a Shropshire lad; so's he;
do you know him?"

"No, sir; I've seen him; I--I--"

Desmond stammered, remembering his unfortunate encounter with Clive in Billiter Street.

"Well, well," said the harbor master, with a quizzical look; "you'll see him again. Come along."

Desmond accompanied Mr. Johnson on shore. A crowd had gathered. There were Sepoys in turban,
cabay {cloak}, and baggy drawers; bearded Arabs; Parsis in their square caps; and a various
assortment of habitues of the shore--crimps, landsharks, badmashes {bad characters}, bunder
{port} gangs. Seeing Desmond hold his nose at the all-prevailing stench of fish, Mr. Johnson
laughed.

"You'll soon get used to that," he said. "'Tis all fish oil and bummaloes {small fish the size
of smelt, known when dried as 'Bombay duck'} in Bombay."

Having sent a trustworthy crew on board the Tremukji, the harbor master led Desmond to his
house near the docks. Here, while a native barber plied his dexterous razor on Desmond's cheeks
and chin, Mr. Johnson searched through a miscellaneous hoard of clothes in one of his capacious
presses for an outfit. He found garments that proved a reasonable fit, and Desmond, while dressing,
gave a rapid sketch of his adventures since he left the prison shed in Gheria.

"My wigs, but you've had a time of it. Mutiny and all! Dash my buttons, here's a tale for the
ladies! Let me look at you. Yes, you'll do now, and faith you're a pretty fellow. And Dick
Burke's son! You've got his nose to a T; no nonsense about that. Now you're ready to make your
bow to Mr. Bourchier. He's been a coursing match with Colonel Clive and Mr. Watson {it was
customary to use the title Mr. in speaking to or of both naval and military officers} up Malabar
Hill, and we'll catch him before he sits down to supper.

"How do you feel inside, by the way? Ready for a decent meal after the Pirate's pig's wash, eh?"

"I'm quite comfortable inside," said Desmond, smiling, "but, to tell you the truth, Mr. Johnson,
I feel mighty uneasy outside. After six months of the dhoti these breeches and things seem
just like bandages."

"It en't the first time you've been swaddled, if you had a mother. Well now, if you're ready.
What! That rascal gashed you! Tuts! 'tis a scratch. Can't wait to doctor that. Come on."

The two made their way into the fort inclosure, and walked rapidly to the Government House
in the center. In answer to Mr. Johnson the darwan {doorkeeper} at the door said that the governor
would not return that night. After the coursing match he was giving a supper party at his country
house at Parell.

"That's a nuisance. But we can't have any nonsense. The governor's a bit of an autocrat; too
much starch in his shirt, I say; but we'll go out to Parell and beard him, by Jove! 'Tis only
five miles out, and we'll drive there in under an hour."

Turning away he hurried out past the tank house on to the Green, and by good luck found an
empty shigram {carriage like a palanquin on wheels} waiting  to  be  hired.  Desmond mounted
the vehicle with no little curiosity. These great beasts with their strange humps would surely
not cover five miles in less than an hour. But he was undeceived when they started. The two
sturdy oxen trotted along at a good pace in obedience to the driver's goad, and the shigram
rattled across Bombay Green, past the church  and  the whitewashed houses of the English merchants,
their oyster-shell windows already lit up; and in some forty-five minutes entered a long avenue
leading to Mr. Bourchier's country house. Twice during  the course of the journey Desmond was
interested to see the shigramwallah {wallah is a personal affix, denoting a close connection
between  the  person  and  the  thing  described  by the main word. Shigramwallah thus is carriage
driver} pull his team up, dismount, and, going to their heads, insert his hand in their mouths.

"What does he do that for?" he asked.

"To clear their throats, to be sure. When the beasts go at this pace they make a terrible lot
of foam, and if he didn't swab it out they'd choke, and no nonsense.

"Well, here we are. Dash my wig, won't his Excellency open his eyes!"

Since their departure from the fort the sky had become quite dark. At the end of the avenue
they could see the lights of Governor Bourchier's bungalow, and by and by caught sight of figures
sitting on the veranda. Desmond's heart beat high; he made no doubt that one of them was Clive;
the moment to which he had looked forward so eagerly was at last at hand. He was in no dream
land; but his dream had come true. He felt a little nervous at the prospect of meeting men
so famous, so immeasurably above him, as Clive and Admiral Watson; but with Clive he felt a
bond of union in his birthplace, and it was with recovered confidence that he sprang out of
the cart and accompanied Mr. Johnson to the bungalow. He was further reassured by a jolly laugh
that rang out just as he reached the steps leading up to the veranda.

"Hullo, Johnson," said a voice, "what does this mean?"

"I've come to see the governor, Captain."

"Then you couldn't have come at a worse time. The supper's half an hour late, and you know
what that means to the governor."

Mr. Johnson smiled.

"He'll  forget his supper when he has heard my news. 'Tis about the Pirate."

"What's that?" said another voice. "News of the Pirate?"

"Yes, Mr. Watson. This young gentleman--"

But he was interrupted by the khansaman {butler}, who came out at this moment and with a salaam
announced that supper was served.

"You'd better come in, Johnson," said the first speaker. "Any news of the Pirate will be sauce
to Mr. Bourchier's goose."

The gentlemen rose from their seats, and went into the house, followed by Desmond and the harbor
master. In a moment Desmond found himself in a large room brilliantly lighted with candles.
In the center was a round table, and Mr. Bourchier, the governor, was placing his guests. He
did not look very pleasant, and when he saw Mr. Johnson he said:

"You come at a somewhat unseasonable hour, sir. Can not your business wait till the morning?"

"I made bold to come, your Excellency, because 'tis a piece of news the like  of  which  no
one in Bombay has ever heard before. This young gentleman, Mr. Desmond Burke, son of Captain
Burke, whom you'll remember, sir, has escaped from Gheria."

The governor and his guests were by this time seated, and instantly all eyes were focused on
Desmond, and exclamations of astonishment broke from their lips.

"Indeed! Bring chairs, Hossain."

One of the native attendants left the room noiselessly, and returning with chairs placed them
at the table.

"Sit down, gentlemen. This is amazing news, as you say, Mr. Johnson. Perhaps Mr. Burke will
relate his adventure as we eat."

Desmond took the chair set for him. The guests were five. Two of them wore the laced coats
of admirals; the taller, a man of handsome presence, with a round chubby face, large eyes,
small full lips, his head crowned by a neat curled wig, was Charles Watson, in command of the
British fleet; the other was his second, Rear Admiral Pocock. A third was Richard King, captain
of an Indiaman, in a blue coat with velvet lappets and gold embroidery, buff waistcoat and
breeches. Next him sat a jolly red-faced gentleman in plain attire, and between him and the
governor was Clive himself, whose striking face--the lawyer's brow, the warrior's nose and
chin, the dreamer's mouth--would have marked him out in any company.

Desmond began his story. The barefooted attendants moved quietly about with the dishes, but
the food was almost neglected as the six gentlemen listened to the clear low voice telling
of the escape from the fort, the capture of the grab, and the eventful voyage to Bombay harbor.

"By George! 'tis a famous adventure," exclaimed Admiral Watson, when the story was ended. "What
about this Pirate's den? Gheria fort is said to be impregnable; what are the chances if we
attack, eh? The approaches to the harbor, now; do you know the depth of the water?"

"Vessels can stand in to three fathoms water, sir. Seven fathoms is within point-blank shot
of the fort. The walls are about fifty feet high; there are twenty-seven bastions, and they
mount more than two hundred guns."

"And the opposite shore?"

"A flat tableland, within distance for bombarding. A diversion might be made from there while
the principal attack could be carried on in the harbor, or from a hill south of the fort."

"Is the landing easy?"

"Yes, sir. There are three sandy bays under the hill, without any surf to make landing difficult.
One is out of the line of fire from the fort."

"And what about the land side? There's a town, is there not?"

"On  a neck of land, sir. There's a wall, but nothing to keep out a considerable force. If
an attack were made from that side the people would, I think, flock into the fort."

"And is that as strong as rumor says?"

"'Tis pretty strong, sir; there are double walls, and thick ones; they'd stand a good battering."

"It seems to me, Admiral," said the red-faced gentleman with a laugh, "that you've learned
all you sent Commodore James to find out.

"What do you say, Mr. Clive?"

"It seems so, Mr. Merriman. But I think, Mr. Watson, in our eagerness to learn something of
Gheria, we must seem somewhat cavalier to this lad, whose interest in our plans cannot be equal
to our own.

"You have shown, sir," he added, addressing Desmond, "great spirit and courage, not less ingenuity,
in your daring escape from the Pirate. But I want to go farther back. How came you to fall
into the Pirate's hands? You have told us only part of your story."

"Yes, indeed," said Mr. Bourchier. "If you are not tired, we shall be vastly pleased to hear
more, Mr. Burke."

"Your name is Burke?" interrupted Clive. "I had not before caught it. May I ask what part of
Ireland you come from, sir? Pardon me, but your accent smacks more of Shropshire than of County
Dublin."

"'Tis Shropshire, sir; I come from Market Drayton."

("Like yourself!" his glowing cheeks and flashing eyes seemed to say. This was the proudest
moment in Desmond's life as yet.)

"I was not mistaken," said Clive. "I remember a schoolfellow of mine of your name; let me see--"

"Richard Burke, sir, my brother; my father was Captain Burke in the Company's service."

"Sure I have it now. I remember him: a tall, fine old sea dog whom I saw at times in Market
Drayton when I was a child. I had a great awe of Captain Burke--i'faith, the only man I was
afraid of. And you are his son!--But come, I am interrupting your story."

Desmond spoke of his longing for adventure, which had led him to leave home in search of fortune.
He glossed over his brother's ill treatment. He told how he had been inveigled on board the
Good Intent, and handed over to Angria when the vessel arrived at Gheria. He mentioned no names
except that of Captain Barker, though he could not have explained his motive in keeping silence
about Diggle.

"Barker is a villain, ripe for the gallows," said Captain King. "But, Mr. Burke, I don't understand
how you came to be so hoodwinked in London. Sure you must have known that a boy without an
ounce of experience would never be made supercargo. Had you any enemies in London?"

"I didn't know that I had, sir, till the Good Intent had sailed. I was deceived, but the man
who promised me the berth was very friendly, and I didn't suspect him."

"It was not Barker, then?"

"No, sir; it was a man I met at Market Drayton."

"At Market Drayton?" said Clive. "That's odd. What was his name?"

"His name was Diggle, and--"

"A stranger? I remember no one of that name," said Clive.

"I thought he was a stranger, sir; but of late I have begun to suspect he was not such a stranger
as he seemed."

"How did you meet him?"

"Accidentally, sir, the night of your banquet in Market Drayton."

"Indeed! 'Tis all vastly curious. Was he lodging in the town?"

"He came in from Chester that night and lodged at the Four Alls."

"With that disreputable sot Grinsell!" Clive paused. "Did he tell you anything about himself?"

"Very little, sir, except that he'd been unlucky. I think he mentioned once that he was a fellow
at a Cambridge college, but he spoke to me most about India."

As he put his questions Clive leaned forward, and seemed to become more keenly interested with
every answer. He now turned and gave a hard look at the bluff man whom he had called Mr. Merriman.
The rest of the company were silent.

"Do you happen to know whether he went up to the Hall?" asked Clive.

"Sir Willoughby's? I met him several times walking in that neighborhood, but I don't think
he went to the Hall. He did not appear to know Sir Willoughby.--And  yet,  sir, I remember
now that I heard Diggle and Grinsell talking about the squire the night I first saw them together
at the Four Alls."

"And you were with this--Diggle, in London, Mr. Burke?"

"Yes, sir."

Desmond began to feel uncomfortable. Clive had evidently not recognized him before, and he
was hoping that the unfortunate incident in Billiter Street would not be recalled. Clive's
next words made him wish to sink into the floor.

"Do you remember, Mr. Burke, in London, throwing yourself in the way of a gentleman that was
in pursuit of your friend Mr. Diggle, and bringing him to the ground?"

"Yes, sir, I did, and I am sorry for it."

Desmond did not like the grim tone of Clive's voice; he wished he would address him as "my
lad" instead of "Mr. Burke."

"That was a bad start, let me say, Mr. Burke--an uncommonly bad start."

"Oh come, Mr. Clive!" broke in Mr. Merriman, "say no more about that. The boy was in bad company:
'twas not his fault. In truth, 'twas my own fault: I am impetuous; the sight of that scoundrel
was too much for me.

"I bear you no grudge, my lad, though I had a bump on my head for a week afterwards. Had you
not tripped me I should have run my rapier through the villain, and there would like have been
an end of me."

"Shall I tell the boy, Mr. Merriman?" said Clive.

"Not now, not now," said Merriman quickly.

The  other gentlemen, during this dialogue, had been discussing the information they had gained
about Gheria fort.

"Well," said Clive, "you are lucky, let me tell you, Mr. Burke, to be out of this Diggle's
clutches. By the way, have you seen him since he sold you to the Pirate?"

"He came a few days before I escaped, and wanted me to come here as a spy. Angria promised
me my freedom and a large sum of money."

"What's that?" cried Merriman. "Wanted you to come as a spy?"

"Yes, sir."

"And what did you say?"

"I told him he might do it himself."

"A palpable hit!" said Merriman with a grim laugh, "and a very proper answer. But he'll have
more respect for his skin."

"Gentlemen," said Mr. Bourchier, "we have kept Mr. Burke talking so much that he hasn't had
a mouthful of food. I think we might go out on the veranda and smoke our cigars while he takes
some supper.

"Mr. Johnson, you've done most justice to my viands, I think. Perhaps you will join us."

The harbor master became purple in the face. He had in fact been eating and drinking with great
gusto, taking advantage of the preoccupation of the company to insure that the excellent fare
should not be wasted. He rose  hurriedly  and, with a sheepish look that scarcely fitted his
cheerful features, followed his sarcastic host to the veranda. All the guests save Mr. Merriman
accompanied Mr. Bourchier.

"They all want to talk shop; this expedition against the Pirate," said Mr. Merriman. "You and
I can have a little chat."

Desmond was attracted by the open face of his new acquaintance, slightly disfigured, as he
noticed, by a long scar on the left temple.

"You're plucky and lucky," continued Merriman, "and in spite of what Mr. Clive calls your bad
start in bowling me over, you'll do well."

His face clouded as he went on.

"That man Diggle: why should he have sold you to the Pirate: what had he against you?"

"I can not imagine, sir."

"You are lucky to have escaped him, as Mr. Clive said. I think--yes, I will tell you about
him. His name is not Diggle; it is Simon Peloti. He is a nephew of Sir Willoughby's. His mother
married a Greek, against her brother's wish; the man died when the child was a year old. As
a boy Peloti was as charming a little fellow as one could wish: handsome, high spirited, clever.
He did well at school, and afterwards at Cambridge: won a fellowship there. Then he went to
the dogs--not all at once; men never do. He was absolutely without principle, and thought of
nothing but his own  ease  and  success.  One thing led to another; at last, in the forty-five--"

He paused. After a moment he went on:

"I had a brother, my lad--"

He stopped again, his face expressing poignant grief.

"I know, sir," said Desmond. "Sir Willoughby told me."

"He told you! He did not mention Peloti?"

"No,  sir; but I see it all now. It was Diggle--Peloti, I mean--who betrayed your brother.
I understand now why the squire took no steps against Grinsell. His accomplice was Diggle."

He related the incident of the house breakers.

"Yes," said Merriman, "that throws a light on things. Peloti, I imagine, had previously seen
the squire, and tried to get money from him. Sir Willoughby  refused: he gave him a thousand
pounds ten years ago on condition he left the country and did not return. So the villain resolved
to rob him. 'Twas fortunate indeed you appeared in time. That is the reason for his hating you."

"There was another, sir," said Desmond with some hesitation. "He thought I was hankering after
the squire's property--aiming at becoming his heir. 'Twas ridiculous, sir; such an idea never
entered my head."

"I see. Peloti came to India and got employment in the Company's service at Madras. But he
behaved so badly that he had to be turned out--he said Mr. Clive hounded him out. What became
of him after that I don't know. But let us leave the miserable subject. Tell me, what are your
ideas? What are you going to do, now that you are a free man once more? Get another berth as
supercargo?"

His eyes twinkled as he said this.

"No, thank you, sir; once bit twice shy. I haven't really thought of anything  definite,  but
what I should like best of all would be a cadetship under Colonel Clive."

"Soho! You're a fighter, are you? But of course you are; I have reason to know that. Well,
we'll see what my friend Mr. Clive says. You've no money, I suppose?"

"Not a half penny, sir; but if the governor will admit that the grab is my lawful prize, I
thought of selling her; that will bring me a few pounds."

"Capital idea. Punctilio won't stand in the way of that, I should think. Well now, I'll speak
to Mr. Clive for you, but don't build too much on it. He cannot give you a commission, I fear,
without the authority of the governor  of  Madras;  and though no doubt a word from him would
be effectual, he's a very particular man, and you'll have to prove you're fit for a soldier's life.

"Meanwhile, what do you say to this? I've taken a fancy to you. I'm a merchant; trade pays
better than soldiering, in general. I've got ships of my own, and I dare say I could find a
berth for you on one of them. You seem to know something of navigation?"

"Very little, sir; just what I picked up on the Good Intent."

"Well, that's a beginning. I've no doubt that Admiral Watson will wish you to go to Gheria
with him: your knowledge of the place will be useful. He won't start for a month or two: why
not occupy the time in improving your navigation, so that if there are difficulties about a
cadetship you'll be competent for a mate's berth? Nothing like having two strings to your bow.
What do you say to that?"

"'Tis very good of you, sir; I accept with pleasure."

"That's right. Now when you've finished that curry we'll go out on the veranda. Before you
came they were talking of nothing but their dogs; but I wager 'tis nothing but the Pirate now."

They soon rejoined the other gentlemen.

"Come, Mr. Burke," said Admiral Watson, "we've been talking over the information you've given
us. You've nothing to do, I suppose?"

"I've just suggested that he should read up navigation, Mr. Watson," said Merriman.

"You're a wizard, Mr. Merriman. I was proposing to engage Mr. Burke to accompany us on our
expedition against the Pirate. He can make himself useful when we get to Gheria. We'll see
how James' information tallies with his.

"You won't object to serve his Majesty, Mr. Burke?"

"'Tis what I should like best in the world, sir."

"Very well. Meanwhile learn all you can; Captain King here will take charge of you, I've no doubt."

"Certainly, Mr. Watson."

"You will give Mr. Burke quarters for the present, Mr. Johnson?" said Merriman.

"To be sure. And as 'tis late we'd better be going.

"Good night, your Excellency; good night, gentlemen."

Early next day Admiral Watson himself rode down to the harbor to inspect the grab. He was so
much pleased with her that he offered to buy her for the service. Before the day was out Desmond
found himself in possession of seven thousand rupees. After paying the Marathas the wages agreed
upon, he proceeded to divide the balance. He retained two shares for himself, and gave each
of the men who had escaped with him an equal part.

No one was more surprised than Fuzl Khan when he received his share in full. He had expected
to get the punishment he knew he well deserved. But Desmond, against the advice of the harbor
master, determined to overlook the man's misconduct. He went further. At his request Admiral
Watson gave him  a  place  on the grab. The Gujarati seemed overwhelmed by this generosity
on  the part of a man he had wronged, and for the nonce breaking through his usual morose reserve,
he thanked Desmond, awkwardly indeed, but with manifest sincerity.

The other men were no less delighted with their good fortune. The sums they received made them
rich men for life. None was more elated than Surendra Nath. It happened that Mr. Merriman came
on board to see the grab at the moment when Desmond was distributing the prize money. Desmond
noticed a curious expression on the Babu's face, and he was compelled to laugh  when  the man,
after a moment's hesitation, walked up to Mr. Merriman, and with a strange mixture of humility
and importance said:

"I wish you a very good morning, your Honor."

"Good gad!--Surendra Nath Chuckerbutti! I'm uncommonly glad to see you."

He shook hands warmly, a mark of condescension which made the Babu beam with gratification.

"Why," continued Merriman, "we'd given you up for dead long ago. So you're the plucky and ingenious
fellow who did so much to help Mr. Burke in the famous escape!

"Surendra Nath was one of my best clerks, Mr. Burke. His father is my head clerk for Company's
business.

"He hasn't been the same man since you disappeared. You must tell me your story. Come up to
Mr. Bowman's house on the Green tonight; I am staying there."

"I shall be most glad to return to my desk in Calcutta, your Honor," said the Babu. "But I
do not like the sea. It has no sympathy with me. I think of accomplishing the journey by land."

"Good heavens, man! it would take you a year at the least, if you weren't swallowed by a tiger
or strangled by a Thug on the way. You'll have to go by water, as you came."

The Babu's face fell.

"That is the fly in the ointment, your Honor. But I will chew majum and bestow myself in the
cabin; thus perhaps I may avoid squeamishness. By the  kindness of Burke Sahib I have a modicum
of money, now a small capital; and I hope, with your Honor's permission, to do trifling trade
for myself."

"Certainly," said Merriman with a laugh. "You'll be a rich man yet, Surendra Nath. Well, don't
forget; you'll find me at Mr. Bowman's on the Green at eight o'clock."

Time sped quickly. Desmond made the best use of his opportunities of learning navigation under
Captain King and the harbor master, and before two months had expired was pronounced fit to
act as mate on the finest East Indiaman afloat. He took this with a grain of salt. The fact
was that his adventures, the modesty with which he deprecated all allusions to his part in
the escape from Gheria, and the industry with which he worked, won him the goodwill of all;
he was a general favorite with the little European community of Bombay.

Apart  from his study, he found plenty to interest him in his spare moments. The strange mixture
of people, the temples and pagodas, the towers of silence on which the Parsees exposed their
dead, the burning pyres of the Hindus on the beach, the gaunt filthy fakirs {religious mendicant
(Mohammedan)} and jogis who whined and told fortunes in the streets  for  alms, the exercising
of the troops, the refitting and careening of Admiral Watson's ships--all this provided endless
matter for curiosity and amusement.

One thing disappointed him. Not once during the two months did he come in contact with Clive.
Mr. Merriman remained in Bombay, awaiting the arrival of a vessel of his from Muscat; but Desmond
was loath to ask him whether he had sounded Clive about a cadetship. As a matter of fact Mr.
Merriman had mentioned the matter at once.

"Patience,  Merriman,"  was  Clive's  reply.  "I have my eye on the youngster."

And with that the merchant, knowing his friend, was very well content; but he kept his own counsel.

At length, one day in the first week of February, 1756, Desmond received a summons to visit
the admiral. His interview was brief. He was directed to place himself under the orders of
Captain Latham on the Tyger; the fleet was about to sail.

It was a bright, cool February morning; cool, that is, for Bombay, when the vessels weighed
anchor and sailed slowly out of the harbor. All Bombay lined the shores: natives of every hue
and every mode of attire; English  merchants;  ladies fluttering white handkerchiefs. Such
an expedition had never been undertaken against the noted Pirate before, and the report of
Commodore James, confirming the information brought by Desmond,  had given the authorities
good hope that this pest of the Malabar coast was at last to be destroyed.

It was an inspiriting sight as the vessels, rounding the point, made under full sail to the
south. There were six line-of-battle ships, six Company's vessels, five bomb ketches, four
Maratha grabs--one of them Angria's own grab, the Tremukji, on which Desmond had escaped--and
forty gallivats. The Tyger led the van. Admiral Watson's flag was hoisted on the Kent, Admiral
Pocock's on the Cumberland. On board the fleet were two hundred  European soldiers, three hundred
Sepoys, and three hundred Topasses--mainly half-caste Portuguese in the service of the Company,
owing their name to the topi {hat} they wore. To cooperate with this force a land army of twelve
thousand Marathas, horse and foot, under the command of Ramaji Punt, one of the Peshwa's generals,
had been for some time investing the town of Gheria.

At this time of year the winds were so slight and variable that it was nearly a week before
the fleet arrived off Gheria. When the bastions of the fort hove into sight Desmond could not
help contrasting his feelings with those of two months before.

"Like the look of your cage, Mr. Burke?" asked Captain Latham at his elbow.

"I was just thinking of it, sir," said Desmond. "It makes a very great difference when you're
outside the bars."

"And we'll break those bars before we're much older, or I'm a Dutchman."

But at this moment the signal to heave-to was seen flying at the masthead of the Kent. Before
the vessels had anchored one of the grabs left the main fleet and ran into the harbor. It bore
a message from Admiral Watson to Tulaji Angria, summoning him to surrender. The answer returned
was that if the admiral desired to be master of the fort he must take it by force, as Angria
was resolved to defend it to the last extremity.

The ships remained at anchor outside the harbor during the night. Next morning a boat put off
from the town end of the fort conveying several of Angria's relatives and some officers of
Ramaji Punt's army. It by and by became known that Tulaji Angria, leaving his brother in charge
of the fort, had given himself up to Ramaji Punt, and was now a prisoner in his camp. The visitors
had come ostensibly to view the squadron, but really to  discover what were Admiral Watson's
intentions in regard to the disposal of the fort, supposing it fell into his hands. The admiral
saw through the device, which was no doubt to hand the fort over to the Peshwa's general, and
so balk the British of their legitimate prize.

Admiral Watson made short work of the visitors. He told them that if Angria would surrender
his fort peaceably he and his family would be protected; but that the fort he must have. They
pleaded for a few days' grace, but the admiral declined to wait a single day. If the fort was
not immediately given up he would sail in and attack it.

It was evident that hostilities could not be avoided. About one in the afternoon Captain Henry
Smith of the Kingfisher sloop was ordered to lead the way, and Desmond was sent to join him.

"What is the depth under the walls, Mr. Burke?" the captain asked him.

"Three and a half fathoms, sir--deep enough to float the biggest of us."

The sloop weighed anchor, and stood in before the afternoon breeze. It was an imposing sight
as the fleet formed in two divisions and came slowly in their wake. Each ship covered a bomb
ketch, protecting the smaller vessels from the enemy's fire. Desmond himself was kept very
busy, going from ship to ship as ordered by signals from the Kent, and assisting each captain
in turn to navigate the unfamiliar harbor.

It was just two o'clock when the engagement began with a shot from the fort at the Kingfisher.
The shot was returned, and a quarter of an hour later, while the fleet was under full sail,
the Kent flew the signal for a general action. One by one the vessels anchored at various points
opposite the fortifications, and soon a hundred and fifty guns were blazing away at the massive
bastions and curtains, answered vigorously by Angria's two hundred and fifty.

Desmond was all excitement. The deafening roar of the guns, the huge columns  of smoke that
floated heavily over the fort, and sometimes enveloped the vessels, the bray of trumpets, the
beating of tom toms, the shouts of men, set his blood tingling: and though he afterwards witnessed
other stirring scenes, he never forgot the vivid impression of the fight at Gheria.

About three o'clock a shell set fire to one of the Pirate's grabs--one that  had  formerly
been taken by him from the Company. Leaving its moorings, it drifted among the main pirate
fleet of grabs which still lay lashed together where Desmond had last seen them by the blaze
of the burning gallivats. They were soon alight. The fire spread rapidly to the dockyard, caught
the unfinished grabs on the stocks, and before long the whole of Angria's shipping was a mass
of flame.

Meanwhile  the  bombardment  had  made  little  impression  on  the fortifications,  and it
appeared to the admiral that time was being wasted. Accordingly he gave orders to elevate the
guns and fire over the walls into the interior of the fort. A shell from one of the bomb ketches
fell plump into one of the outhouses of the palace and set it on fire. Fanned  by  the west
wind, the flames spread to the arsenal and the storehouse, licking up the sheds and smaller
buildings until they reached the outskirts of the city. The crackling of flames was now mingled
with the din of artillery, and as dusk drew on, the sky was lit up over a large space with
the red glow of burning. By half-past six the guns on the bastions had been silenced, and the
admiral gave the signal to cease fire.

Some time before this a message reached Captain Smith ordering him to send Desmond at once
on board the Kent. When he stepped on deck he found Admiral Watson in consultation with Clive.
It appeared that during the afternoon  a cloud of horsemen had been observed hovering on a
hill eastward of the city, and being by no means sure of the loyalty of the Maratha allies,
Clive had come to the conclusion that it was time to land his troops. But it was important
that the shore and the neck of land east of the fort should be reconnoitered before the landing
was attempted. The groves might, for all he knew, be occupied by the Pirate's troops or by
those of Ramaji Punt, and Clive had had enough experience of native treachery to be well on
his guard.

"I am going to send you on a somewhat delicate mission, Mr. Burke," he said. "You know the
ground. I want you to go quickly on shore and see first of all whether there is safe landing
for us, and then whether the ground between the town and the fort is occupied. Be quick and
secret; I need waste no words. Mr. Watson has a boat's crew ready."

"I think, sir," said Desmond, "that it will hardly be necessary, perhaps not advisable, to
take a boat's crew from this ship. If I might have a couple  of natives, there would be a good
deal less risk in getting ashore."

"Certainly. But there is no time to spare; indeed, if you are not back in a couple of hours
I shall land at once. But I should like to know what we have to expect. You had better get
a couple of men from the nearest grab."

"The Tremukji is only a few cable lengths away, sir, and there's a man on board who knows the
harbor. I will take him, with your permission."

"Very well. Good luck go with you."

Desmond saluted, and stepping into the boat which had rowed him to the Kent, he was quickly
conveyed to the grab. In a few minutes he left this in a skiff accompanied only by Fuzl Khan
and a lascar. Not till then did he explain what he required of them. The Gujarati seemed overcome
by the selection of himself for this mission.

"You are kind to me, sahib," he said. "I do not deserve it; but I will serve you to my life's end."

There was in the man's tone a fervency which touched Desmond at the time, and which he had
good cause afterwards to remember.

A quarter of an hour after Desmond quitted the deck of the Kent, he was put ashore at a sandy
bay at the farther extremity of the isthmus, hidden from the fort by a small clump of mango trees.

"Now, Fuzl Khan," he said, "you will wait here for a few minutes till it is quite dark, then
you will row quickly along the shore till you come to within a short distance of the jetty.
I am going across the sand up toward the fort, and will come round to you."

He stepped over the soft sand towards the trees and was lost to sight. The bombardment had
now ceased, and though he heard a confused noise from the direction of the fort, there was
no sound from the town, and he concluded that the people had fled either into the fort or away
into the country. It appeared at present that the whole stretch of land between the town and
the fort was deserted.

He had not walked far when he was startled by hearing, as he fancied, a stealthy footstep following
him. Gripping in his right hand the pistol he had brought as a precaution, and with the left
loosening his sword in its scabbard, he faced round with his back to the wall of a shed in
which Angria's ropes were made, and waited, listening intently. But the sound, slight as it
was, had ceased. Possibly it had been made by some animal, though that seemed scarcely likely:
the noise and the glare from the burning buildings must surely have scared away all the animals
in the neighborhood. Finding that the sound was not repeated, he went on again. Some minutes
later, his ears on the stretch, he fancied he caught the same soft furtive tread: but when
he stopped and listened and heard nothing, he believed that he must have been mistaken, and
set it down as an echo of his own excitement.

Stepping  warily,  he  picked his way through the darkness, faintly illuminated by the distant
glow of the conflagration. He skirted the dockyard, and drew nearer to the walls of the courtyard
surrounding the fort, remembering how, nearly twelve months before, he had come almost the
same way from the jetty with the decoy message from Captain Barker. Then he had been a source
of amusement to crowds of natives as he passed on his way to the palace; now the spot was deserted,
and but for the noises that reached him from distant quarters he might have thought himself
the sole living creature in that once populous settlement.

He had now reached the outer wall, which was separated from the fort only by the wide compound
dotted here and there with palm trees. It was clear that no force, whether of the Pirate's
men or of Ramaji Punt's, held the ground between the shore and the fort. All the fighting men
had without doubt been withdrawn within the walls. His mission was accomplished.

It had been his intention to make his way back by a shorter cut along the outer wall, by the
west side of the dockyard, until he reached the shore near the jetty. But standing for a moment
under the shade of a palm tree, he hesitated to carry out his plan, for the path he meant to
follow must be lit up along its whole course by a double glare: from the blazing buildings
inside the fort, and from the burning gallivats in the dockyard and harbor.

He was on the point of retracing his steps when, looking over the low wall  towards the fort,
he saw two dark figures approaching, moving swiftly from tree to tree, as if wishing to escape
observation. It was too late to move now; if he left the shelter of the palm tree he would
come distinctly into view of the two men, and it would be unwise to risk anything that would
delay his return to Clive. Accordingly he kept well in the shadow and waited. The stealthy
movements of the men suggested that they were fugitives, eager to get away with whole skins
before the fort was stormed.

They came to the last of the palm trees within the wall, and paused there for a brief space.
A few yards of open ground separated them from the gate. Desmond watched curiously, then with
some anxiety, for it suddenly struck him that the men were making for him, and that he had
actually been shadowed from his landing place by someone acting, strange as it seemed, in collusion
with them. On all accounts it was necessary to keep close.

Suddenly he saw the men leave the shelter of their tree and run rapidly across the ground to
the gate. Having reached it, they turned aside into the shadow of the wall and stood as if
to recover breath. Desmond had kept his eyes upon them all the time. Previously, in the shade
of the trees, their faces had not been clearly distinguishable; but while now invisible from
the fort, they were lit up by the glow from the harbor. It was with a shock of surprise that
he recognized in the fugitives the overseer  of the dockyard, whose cruelties he had so good
reason to remember, and Marmaduke Diggle, as he still must call him.

The sight of the latter set his nerves tingling; his fingers itched to take some toll for the
miseries he had endured through Diggle's villainy. But  he  checked  his impulse to rush forward
and confront the man. Single-handed he could not cope with both the fugitives; and though,
if he had been free, he might have cast all prudence from him in his longing to bring the man
to book, he recollected his duty to Clive and remained in silent rage beneath the tree.

All at once he heard a rustle behind him, a low growl like that of an animal enraged; and almost
before he was aware of what was happening a dark figure sprang past him, leaped over the ground
with the rapidity of a panther, and threw himself upon the overseer just as with Diggle he
was beginning to move towards the town. There was a cry from each man, and the red light falling
upon the face of the assailant, Desmond saw with amazement that it was the Gujarati, whom he
had supposed to be rowing along the shore to meet him.

He had hardly recognized the man before he saw that he was at deadly grips with the overseer,
both snarling like wild beasts. There was no time for thought, for Diggle, momentarily taken
aback by the sudden onslaught, had recovered himself and was making with drawn sword toward
the two combatants, who in their struggle had moved away from him.

Desmond no longer stayed to weigh possibilities or count risks. It was clear that Fuzl Khan's
first onslaught had failed; had he got home, the overseer, powerful as he was, must have been
killed on the spot. In the darkness the Gujarati's knife had probably missed its aim. He had
now two enemies to deal with, and but for intervention he must soon be overcome and slain.

Drawing his sword, Desmond sprang from the tree and dashed across the open, reaching the scene
of the struggle just in the nick of time to strike up Diggle's weapon ere it sheathed itself
in the Gujarati's side. Diggle turned with a startled oath, and seeing who his assailant was,
he left his companion to take care of himself, and faced Desmond, a smile of anticipated triumph
wreathing his lips.

No word was spoken. Diggle lunged, and Desmond at that moment knew that he was at a perilous
crisis of his life. The movements of the practised swordsman could not be mistaken; he himself
had little experience; all that he could rely on was his quick eye and the toughness of his
muscles. He gave back, parrying the lunge, tempted to use his pistol upon his adversary. But
now that the cannonading had ceased the shot might be heard by some of the Pirate's men, and
before he could escape he might be beset by a crowd of ruffians against whom he would have
no chance at all. He could but defend himself with his sword and hope that Diggle might overreach
himself in his fury and give him an opportunity to get home a blow.

Steel  struck  upon steel; the sparks flew; and the evil smile upon Diggle's face became fixed
as he saw that Desmond was no match for him in swordsmanship.  But  it changed when he found
that though his young opponent's science was at fault, his strength and dexterity, his wariness
in avoiding a close attack, served him in good stead. Impatient to finish the fight, he took
a step forward, and lunged so rapidly that Desmond could hardly have escaped his blade but
for an accident. There was a choking sob to his right, and just as Diggle's sword was flashing
towards him a heavy form fell against the blade and upon Desmond. In the course of their deadly
struggle the Gujarati and the overseer had shifted their ground, and at this moment, fortunately
for Desmond, Fuzl Khan had driven his knife into his old oppressor's heart.

But  the  same  accident  that  saved Desmond's life gave Diggle an opportunity of which he
was quick to avail himself. Before Desmond could recover his footing, Diggle shortened his
arm and was about to drive his sword through the lad's heart. The Gujarati saw the movement.
Springing in with uplifted knife, he attempted to turn the blade. He succeeded; he struck it
upwards; but the force with which he had thrown himself between the two swordsmen was his undoing.
Unable to check his rush, he received the point of Diggle's sword in his throat. With a terrible
cry he raised his  hands to clutch his assailant; but his strength failed him; he swayed, tottered,
and fell gasping at Desmond's feet, beside the lifeless overseer.

Desmond saw that the turn of fortune had given the opportunity to him. He sprang forward as
Diggle tried to recover his sword; Diggle gave way: and before he could lift his dripping weapon
to parry the stroke, Desmond's blade was through his forearm. Panting with rage, he sought
with his left hand to draw his pistol; but Desmond was beforehand with him. He caught his 
arm,  wrenched  the  pistol from him, and, breathless with his exertions, said:

"You are my prisoner."

"'Tis fate, my young friend," said Diggle, with all his old blandness; Desmond  never  ceased
to  be  amazed  at the self command of this extraordinary man. "I have let some blood, I perceive;
my sword arm is for the time disabled; but my great regret at this moment--you will understand
the feeling--is that this gallant friend of yours lies low with the wound intended for another.
So Antores received in his flank the lance hurled at Lausus: infelix alieno volnere."

"I dare say, Mr. Diggle," interrupted Desmond, "but I have no time to construe Latin."

Covering  Diggle  with his pistol, Desmond stooped over Fuzl Khan's prostrate body and discovered
in a moment that the poor fellow's heart had ceased to beat. He rose, and added: "I must trouble
you to come with me; and quickly, for you perceive you are at my mercy."

"Where do you propose to take me, my friend?"

"We will go this way, and please step out."

Diggle scowled, and stood as though meditating resistance.

"Come, come, Mr. Diggle, you have no choice. I do not wish to have to drag you; it might cause
you pain."

"Surely you will spare a moment to an old friend! I fear you are entirely mistaken. 'Tis pity
that with the natural ebullition of your youthful spirit you should have set upon a man whom--"

"You can talk as we go, Mr. Diggle, if you talk low enough. Must I repeat it?"

"But where are we going? Really, Mr. Burke, respect for my years should prompt a more considerate
treatment."

"You see yonder point?" said Desmond impatiently; "yonder on the shore. You will come with
me there."

Diggle looked around as if hoping that even now something might happen in his favor. But no
one was in sight; Desmond stood over him with sword still drawn; and recognizing his helplessness
the man at length turned towards the shore and began to walk slowly along, Desmond a foot or
so in the rear.

"'Twas a most strange chance, surely," he said, "that brought you to this spot at the very
moment when I was shaking the dust of Gheria from my feet. How impossible it is to escape the
penalty of one's wrongdoing! Old Horace knew it: Raro antecedentem scelestum--you remember
the rest. Mr. Burslem drubbed our Latin into us, Mr. Burke. I am a fellow townsman of yours,
though  you did not know it: aye, a boy in your old school, switched by your old master. I
have treated you badly. I admit it; but what could I do? Your brother slandered you; I see
now how he deceived me; he wished you out of his way. Here I acted under pressure of Angria;
he was bent on sending you to Bombay; I could not defy him. I was wrong; what  you  said when
I saw you last made a deep impression on me; I repented, and, as Tully, I think, put it, 'a
change of plan is the best harbor  to a penitent man.' I was indeed seeking that refuge of
the repentant, and altering my whole plan of life; and if you will but tarry a moment--"

"Keep on, Mr. Diggle," said Desmond, as the man, who had been talking over his shoulder, half
stopped; "my point is sharp."

"I was leaving the fort, as you saw. Not from any fear; you will acquit me of that, and as
you know, the fort is impregnable, and I might have remained there in perfect safety. No, I
was quitting it because I was wearied,  disgusted  with  Angria  and  his  ways.  'Twas  under
a misapprehension I for a time consorted with him; I am disabused, and it is by the mere malignity
of Fate that at this turning point of my career I encounter one whom, I acknowledge, I have
wronged. I am beaten; I do not blink that; and by a better man. But youth is generous; and
you, Mr. Burke, are not the man to press your advantage against one who all his life has been
the sport of evil circumstance. I was bound for farther India; I know a little port to the
south where I should have taken ship, with strong hope of getting useful and honorable employment
when my voyage was ended. Perchance you have heard of Alivirdi Khan; if you would but pause
a moment--"

"Go on, Mr. Diggle," said Desmond inexorably; "and it will be well to mend your pace."

"Alivirdi Khan," resumed Diggle, speaking more rapidly; the waters of the harbor, glowing red,
were in sight: "Alivirdi Khan is sick unto death. He is wealthy beyond all imaginings. His
likeliest heir, Sirajuddaula, soon to be Subah {viceroy} of Bengal, is well known to me, and
indeed beholden to  me  for  services rendered in the past. Mr. Burke, I make you a proposition--it
is worth considering. Why not come with me? Wipe off old scores, throw in your lot with mine.
Together, what could we not do--I with my experience, you with your youthful vigor! See, here
is an earnest of my sincerity."

He took from his fob a large diamond which flashed in the red light of the conflagration.

"Accept this; in the treasuries of Alivirdi there are thousands like it, each worth a king's
ransom. Come with me, and I promise you that within two years you shall be rich beyond your
wildest dreams."

"Put up your diamond, Mr. Peloti. You may repeat your offer when we reach Colonel Clive."

Diggle stopped as if shot. He looked with startled eyes at the boy, who had known him only
as Diggle.

"You are going to Colonel Clive!" he exclaimed. The smoothness of his manner was gone; his
tone expressed mortal anxiety. "But--but--he is a personal enemy; he will--I beseech you think
again; I--"

He broke off, and with a suddenness that took Desmond by surprise he sprang away, making towards
the grove of mangoes that stood between him and the shore. Desmond was instantly in pursuit.
If Diggle gained the shelter of the trees he might escape in the darkness. But the race was
short. Weak from fear and loss of blood, the elder was no match in speed for the younger. In
less than a hundred yards he was overtaken, and stood panting, quivering, unnerved. Desmond
gripped his uninjured arm, and with quickened footsteps hurried him towards the shore. There
was the boat, the lascar resting motionless on his oar. Ten minutes later Diggle was assisted
up the side of the Kent, and handed over to the officer of the watch. Then Desmond made his
report to Clive.

"All the enemy are withdrawn within the fort, sir. The whole ground between the fort and the
shore is clear. There is nothing to obstruct your landing."

"I thank you. You have exceeded your time by ten minutes. Who is that man who came aboard with
you?"

"It was he who delayed me, sir. It is Mr. Diggle, or Peloti, I should say."

"The deuce he is!"

"He  was stealing out of the fort; it came to a scuffle, and he was wounded--so I brought him
along."

"Mr. Speke," said Clive, turning to the captain, "may I ask you to see this man safe bestowed?
I will deal with him when our business here is concluded.

"Mr. Burke, you will come with me."

By nine o'clock Clive had landed his troops. They bivouacked on the shore, in expectation of
storming the fort next day. At daybreak an officer  was  sent into the fort with a flag of
truce to demand its surrender. This being refused, the admiral ordered his ships to warp within
a cable's length of the walls in three fathoms and a quarter water,  and the attack was renewed
by sea and land, Clive gradually advancing  and worrying the enemy with his cannon. At two
o'clock a magazine in the fort blew up, and not long after, just as Clive was about to give
the order to storm, a white flag was seen fluttering at one of the bastions.

A messenger was sent to the governor to arrange the capitulation, but when he was met by prevarication
and pleas for delay the bombardment was once more resumed. A few minutes of this sufficed to
bring the defenders to reason, and by five o'clock the English flag flew upon the walls.

Clive postponed his entry until dawn on the following morning.

"By Jove, Mr. Burke," he said to Desmond, who showed him the way to the palace, "if we had
been within these walls I think we could have held out till doomsday."

All  the  English  officers  were  impressed by the strength of the fortifications. Besides
Angria's two hundred and fifty cannon, an immense quantity of stores and ammunition fell into
the hands of the captors. In the vaults of the palace were found silver rupees to the value
of one hundred thousand pounds, and treasure worth thirty thousand pounds more. The capture
had been effected with the loss of only twenty killed and wounded.

Desmond took the earliest opportunity of seeking the body of Fuzl Khan. Fortunately the fires
and the noises of the night had preserved it from mangling by wild beasts. The poor man lay
where he had fallen, near the body of the overseer.

"Poor fellow!" thought Desmond, looking at the strong, fierce face and the gigantic frame now
stiff and cold. "Little he knew, when he said he'd serve me to his life's end, that the end
was so near."

He had the body carried into the town, and reverently buried according to Mohammedan rites.
From the lascar he had learned all that he ever knew of the motives of the Gujarati's action.
Desmond had hardly left the boat when the man sprang quickly after him, saying briefly:

"I go to guard the sahib."

It was like the instinctive impulse of a faithful dog; and Desmond often regretted  the  loss
of the man who had shown himself so capable of devotion.

That evening Clive summoned Desmond to attend him in the palace. When he entered  the  durbar
hall he saw, seated on the dais, a small group consisting  of  Clive, Admiral Watson, and two
or three subordinate officers. Standing in front of them was Diggle, in the charge of two marines.

"How many European prisoners have been released, Mr. Ward?" the admiral was saying.

"Thirteen, sir; ten English and three Dutch."

"Is that correct, Mr. Burke? Was that the number when you were here?"

"Yes, sir, that is correct."

"Then you may go, Mr. Ward, and see that the poor fellows are taken on board the Tyger and
well looked after."

As the officer saluted and withdrew the admiral turned to Clive.

"Now for this white pirate," he said: "a most unpleasant matter, truly."

Signing to the marines to bring forward their prisoner, he threw himself back upon the divan,
leaving the matter in Clive's hands. Clive was gazing hard at Diggle, who had lost the look
of terror he had worn two nights before, and stood before them in his usual attitude of careless
ease.

"You captured this man," said Clive, turning to Desmond, "within the precincts of the fort?"

His hard level tone contrasted strongly with the urbaner manner of the admiral.

"Yes, sir," replied Desmond.

"He is the same man who inveigled you on board the interloper Good Intent and delivered you
to the Pirate?"

"And he was to your knowledge associated with the Pirate, and offered you inducements to spy
upon his Majesty's forces in Bombay?"

"Yes, sir."

"Have you anything to say for yourself, Mr. Peloti?"

"Pardon me, Mr. Clive; Diggle--Marmaduke Diggle."

"Diggle, if you like," said Clive with a shrug. "You will hang as well in that name as another."

One of the officers smiled at the grim jest, but there was no smile on Clive's stern set face.

"You asked me if I had anything to say for myself," said Diggle quietly. "Assuredly; but it
seems your Honors have condemned me already. Why should I waste your time, and my breath? I
bethink me 'twas not even in Rome the custom to judge a matter before learning the facts--prius
rem dijudicare--but  it  is a long time, Mr. Clive, since we conned our Terence together."

Desmond could not but admire the superb insouciance and the easy smile with which Diggle played
his card. Seeing that Clive for an instant hesitated, the intrepid prisoner continued:

"But there, Mr. Clive, you never excelled in the Latin. 'Twas a sore point with poor Mr. Burslem."

"Come, come," cried Clive, visibly nettled, "this is no time for quips. You fail to appreciate
your position. You are caught red handed. If you have no defense to make you will meet the
fate of other pirates before you. Have you anything to say?"

"Yes. You accuse me of piracy; I have a complete answer to that charge; but as an Englishman
I claim an Englishman's right--a fair trial before a jury of my countrymen. In any case, Mr.
Clive, it would be invidious to give me worse treatment than Monaji Angria and his officers.
As for the rest, it depends on the evidence of this single witness."

Here Admiral Watson bent forward and said to Clive in an undertone, inaudible to the others:

"I think we had better defer this. If, as you suppose, the fellow has knowledge of the French
plans, it would be only politic to give Mr. Bourchier an opportunity of inquiring into the
matter. No doubt he richly deserves hanging, but dead men tell no tales."

Clive frowned, and, drumming upon the divan impatiently with his fingers, seemed for the moment
to be lost in thought. Then he said:

"Yes, Mr. Watson, I think you are right."

"Take the prisoner back to your ship," said the admiral, "and put him under double guard.

"Thank you, Mr. Burke; we shall require your evidence in Bombay. One word before you go. I
am vastly indebted to you for your services; you have been  of the greatest use to myself and
my captains. Your name will frequently appear in our ships' logs, and I shall take care to
show your work in the proper light when I make my report. Meanwhile, when the division of prize
money is made, you will receive a lieutenant's share. Good night, sir."

And Desmond's face, as he left the room, bore a flush of happiness and pride.

Chapter 19: In which the scene changes; the dramatis personae remaining the same.

A few days after the capture, the Tyger left Gheria, having on board the men  wounded  in the
attack and the European prisoners who had been rescued. Desmond also sailed in it, with an
official report from Admiral Watson to Governor Bourchier.

The arrival of the Tyger at Bombay, with the first news of the success of the expedition and
the fall of the fortress so long deemed impregnable, was the occasion of a great demonstration
of rejoicing. The trading community, whether European or native, was enthusiastic over the
ruin of the notorious Pirate; and Desmond, as one who had had a share in the operations, came
in for a good deal of congratulation which he laughingly protested ought to have been reserved
for better men.

Mr. Merriman was among the crowd that welcomed the Tyger, and as soon as Desmond had delivered
his report to Mr. Bourchier, the genial merchant carried  him off to the house on the Green
where he was staying and insisted on having a full account of his experiences. When he learned
that  Diggle  had been captured and would shortly reach Bombay as a prisoner,  his  jolly 
face assumed as intense a look of vindictive satisfaction as it was capable of expressing.

"By thunder! that's the best of your news for me. The villain will get his deserts at last.
I'm only sorry that I shall not be here to serve on the jury."

"Are you leaving Bombay then?"

"Yes, and I wanted you to come with me. My ship the Hormuzzeer came to port  two  days  ago,
and I had to dismiss the second mate, who was continually at odds with the lascars. I hoped
you would accept his berth, and sail with me. I want to get back to Calcutta. We had advices
the other day that things are not looking well in Bengal. Alivirdi Khan is dying; and there
is sure to be some bother about the succession. All Bengal may be aflame. My wife and daughter
are in Calcutta, and I don't care about being away from them if danger is threatening. I want
to get away as soon as possible, and thought of taking passage in an Indiaman; but the Hormuzzeer
being here I'll sail in that; she'll make direct for the Hugli; an Indiaman would put in at
Madras, and goodness knows how long I might be delayed."

"'Tis a pity," said Desmond. "I should have liked of all things to accept your offer, but I'm
bound to stay for Diggle's trial, and that can't be held until the fleet return."

"How long will that be?"

"I heard the admiral say he expected it would take a month to settle everything at Gheria.
He wants to keep the place in our hands, but Ramaji Punt claims it for the Peshwa, and Captain
Speke of the Kent told me that it'll be very lucky if they come to an arrangement within a month."

"It's uncommonly vexatious. I can't wait a month. It'll take a week or more  to clean the Hormuzzeer's
hull, and another to load her; in a fortnight  at the outside I hope to be on my way. Well,
it can't be helped. What will you do when the trial is over?"

"I don't know."

"Did Mr. Clive say anything about a cadetship?"

"Not a word. He only said that I should get a share of the Gheria prize money."

"That's something to the good. Use it wisely. I came out to Calcutta twenty years ago with
next to nothing, and I've done well. There's no reason why you should not make your fortune,
too, if your health will stand the climate. We'll have a talk over things before I sail."

A week later the Bridgewater arrived from Gheria, with Diggle on board. He  was  imprisoned
in the fort, being allotted far too comfortable quarters to please Mr. Merriman. But Merriman's
indignation at what he considered the governor's leniency was changed to hot rage three days
later when it became known that the prisoner had disappeared. Not a trace of him could be discovered.
He had been locked in as usual one night, and next morning his room was empty. Imprisonment
was much less stringent in those days than now; the prisoner was allowed to see visitors and
to live more or less at ease. The only clue to Diggle's escape was afforded by the discovery
that, at the same time that he disappeared, there vanished also a black boy, who had been brought
among the prisoners from Gheria and was employed in doing odd jobs about the harbor.

Desmond had no doubt that this was Diggle's boy Scipio Africanus. And when he mentioned the
connection between the two, it was supposed that the negro had acted as go-between for his
master with the friends in the town by whose aid the escape had been arranged. Among the large
native population of Bombay there were many who were suspected of being secret agents of the
French, and as Diggle was well provided with funds it was not at all unlikely that his jailer
had been tampered with.

Merriman's wrath was very bitter. He had been waiting for years, as he told Desmond, for the
punishment of Peloti. It was gall and wormwood to him that the villain should have cheated
the gallows.

Diggle's  escape,  however,  gave Merriman an opportunity to secure Desmond's services. The
culprit being gone, the evidence was no longer required. Finding that Desmond was still ready
to accept the position of mate on the Hormuzzeer, Merriman consulted Mr. Bourchier, who admitted
that he saw no reason for detaining the lad. Accordingly, the first week in March, when the
vessel stood out of Bombay harbor, Desmond sailed with her.

The  weather  was calm, but the winds not wholly favorable, and the Hormuzzeer made a somewhat
slow passage. Mr. Merriman was impatient to reach Calcutta, and Desmond was surprised at his
increasing uneasiness. He had believed that the French and Dutch were the only people in Bengal
who gave the Company trouble, and as England was at peace with both France and the Netherlands,
there was nothing, he thought, to fear from them.

"You are mistaken," said Mr. Merriman, in the course of a conversation one day. "The natives
are a terrible thorn in our side. At best we are in Bengal on sufferance; we are a very small
community--only a hundred or two Europeans in Calcutta: and since the Marathas overran the
country some years ago we have felt as though sitting on the brink of a volcano. Alivirdi wants
to keep us down; he has forbidden us to fight the French even if war does break out between
us at home; and though the Mogul has granted us charters--they call them firmans here--Alivirdi
doesn't care a rap for such things, and must have us under his heel. Only his trading profits
and his fear of the Mogul keep him civil."

"But you said he was dying."

"So he is, and that makes matters worse, for his grandson, Sirajuddaula, who'll probably succeed
him, is no better than a tiger. He lives at Murshidabad, about one hundred miles up the river.
He's a vain, peacocky, empty-headed youth, and as soon as the breath is out of his granddad's
body he'll want to try his wings and take a peck or two at us. He may do it slyly, or go so
far as to attack us openly."

"But if he did that, sure Calcutta is defended; and, as Mr. Clive said to me in Gheria, British
soldiers behind walls might hold out forever."

"Clive doesn't know Calcutta then! That's the mischief! At the Maratha invasion the Bengalis
on our territory took fright, and at their own expense began a great ditch round Calcutta--we
call it the Maratha ditch; but the Nawab bought the Marathas off, the work was stopped, the
walls of the fort are now crumbling to ruins, and the cannon lie about unmounted and useless.
Worst of all, our governor, Mr. Drake, is a quiet soul, an excellent worthy man, who wouldn't
hurt a fly. We call him the Quaker. Quakers are all very well at home, where they can 'thee'
and 'thou' and get rich and pocket affronts without any harm; but they won't do in India. Might
is right with the natives; they don't understand anything else; and as sure as they see any
sign of weakness in us they'll take advantage of it and send us all to kingdom come.

"And I'm thinking of the womenfolk: India's no place for them at the best; and I did all I
could to persuade my wife and daughter to remain at home. But they would come out with me when
I returned last year; and glad as I am to have them with me I sometimes get very anxious; I
can't bear them out of my sight, and that's a fact."

Mr.  Merriman showed his relief when, on the thirtieth of April, he noticed the yellow tinge
in the water, which indicated that the vessel was approaching the mouth of the Hugli. Next
day the vessel arrived at Balasore, where a pilot was taken on board, and entered the river.
Mr. Merriman pointed out to Desmond the island of Sagar, whither in the late autumn the jogis
came down in crowds to purify themselves in the salt water, "and provide a meal for the tiger,"
he added. At Kalpi a large barge, rowed by a number of men dressed in white, with pink sashes,
came to meet the Hormuzzeer.

"That's my budgero," said Merriman. "We'll get into it and row up to Calcutta in half the time
it would take the ship. Each of us merchants has his own budgero, and instead of putting our
men in buttons with our arms and all that nonsense, we give them colored sashes--and don't
our women squabble about the colors, my boy, just don't they!"

In the budgero they passed the Dutch factory at Fulta, and the Subah's forts at Budge Budge
and Tanna. At Gobindpur's reach, Merriman pointed out  the  pyramid  of  stone that marked
the limit of the Company's jurisdiction. Soon the gardens of the British merchants came in
sight, then the Company's docks, and at last the town of Calcutta, where the Company's landing
stage was thronged with people awaiting the arrival of the budgero in the hope of getting news
from home.

"There's Surendra Nath and his father," said Mr. Merriman, as they came near the steps.

His jolly face beamed when he stepped on to the ghat {landing stage}.

"Hullo, Babu!" he said, "glad to see you again."

He shook hands with both the men; the elder was much like his son, a slightly-built Bengali,
with white hair and very bright eyes. Both were clad in dhotis of pure white; their legs were
bare from the knee, their feet shod with sandals. When the greeting had passed between them
and their master, the old man moved towards Desmond, put his hands together, and made a deep
salaam.

"I have heard what the sahib did for my son. I thank the sahib," he said.

"Yes, 'twas excellent good fortune for Surendra Nath," said Mr. Merriman. "I knew you would
be overjoyed to see your son again. But how is the bibi {lady}, and the chota {young} bibi?"

"They were well, sahib, when last I heard. They are on a visit to Watts Sahib, at Cossimbazar."

Merriman's face fell, but he had no time to say more, for he was accosted by a friend.

"Glad  to see you back, Mr. Merriman. I've wanted your voice on the Council for some time past."

"Is anything wrong, Mr. Holwell?" asked Merriman anxiously.

"Everything is wrong. Alivirdi died a fortnight ago; Sirajuddaula has stepped into his shoes;
and Drake has made a mess of everything, with Manningham's and Frankland's assistance. I want
you to come and dine with me this evening; we must have a serious talk; I've asked two or three
men of our sort in anticipation of your consent."

"Very well. Let me present my friend, Mr. Burke. He escaped from Gheria; you've heard that
Colonel Clive captured the place?"

"Yes; we had despatches from Admiral Watson some days ago. I had heard of Mr. Burke's adventures--

"Your servant, sir; I am delighted to meet you--

"Well, Merriman, three o'clock; I will not detain you now; you'll want to get home."

Mr. Merriman's bearers were at hand with his palanquin; he got into it; the men set off at
a swinging pace, warning the bystanders with their cry of "Tok! Tok!" and Desmond walked by
the side of the chair, amused to watch the self-important airs of the peon who went in front.
They passed the fort and the Company's house, and arrived at length at a two-story flat-roofed
house with a veranda, the windows filled, not with oyster shells as at Bombay, but with thin
screens of reeds.

"Here we are," said Merriman with a sigh of relief.

"Now I'll hand you over to the baniya {factotum}; he'll show you to your room. I'm vexed that
my wife is not here; of course she didn't know when to expect me; and Mrs. Watts is an old
friend of hers. 'Tis a relief in one way; for Mr. Watts is a shrewd fellow--he's head of our
factory at Cossimbazar, and senior member of Council here--and he would have sent the ladies
away if he scented danger. Sorry I shall have to leave you; I must dine with Mr. Holwell; he's
our zamindar--judge of the Cutcheri court and collector of taxes: a fine fellow, the most cool-headed
man on the Council. But the khansaman will give you something to eat: and I'll be back as soon
as I can. You can take it easy on the veranda, and you'll find a hookah if you care to try it."

"No, thanks," said Desmond with a smile; "I've no fancy that way."

Shortly afterwards Mr. Merriman left the house in his palanquin, wearing the short white calico
jacket that was then de rigueur at dinner parties. It was late before he returned. There was
an anxious and worried look on his face, but he said cheerily:

"Well, how have you been getting on?"

"I've been reading, sir: I found a volume of Mr. Fielding's Amelia, and 'twas a change to read
after eighteen months without setting eyes on a book. I hope you had a good dinner."

"'Pon my soul, I don't know. None of us knows, I warrant. We had too much to talk about to
think about our appetites. Two or three members of Council were there, and Captain Minchin,
the military commandant. Things are looking black, Desmond. Alivirdi is dead, and, as I expected,
his scoundrel  of  a  grandson,  Sirajuddaula, is the new Subah. He has imprisoned one of his
rivals, his aunt, and is marching against another, his cousin Shaukat Jung; and 'tis the common
talk that our turn will come next."

"But why should he be at odds with us?"

"Why, to begin with, he's a native and hates us; thinks we're too rich, and though he's rich
enough he would like to get what we have and turn us out. Then our president Mr. Drake has
acted in the weakest possible way; the very way to encourage the Subah. Instead of siding with
Sirajuddaula from the first, as he might well have done, because the rivals never had the ghost
of a chance, he shilly shallied. Then he offended him by giving shelter to a fellow named Krishna
Das, who came in a month ago with fifty sacks of treasure from Murshidabad; it really belonged
to the Subah's aunt, but the Subah had an eye on it and he's furious at losing it. That wasn't
enough. Mr. Watts at Cossimbazar had warned the Council here of the new Subah's unfriendliness;
they talk at Murshidabad of our weak defenses and how easy it would be to overcome us. He advised
Mr. Drake to keep on good terms with the Subah; but what must he do but turn out of the place
a man named Narayan Das, the brother of the new Nawab's chief spy."

"Sure you don't allow the enemy's spies to live in Calcutta?"

"Sure we can't help ourselves. The place is full of them--spies of the Subah, and of the French
too. We can't do anything. We may suspect, but if we raised a hand we should stir up a hornets'
nest, as indeed Mr. Drake appears to be doing.

"But that isn't all. The Company's ship Delaware came in a fortnight ago with the news that
a French fleet is fitting out under Count Lally, at Brest; 'tis supposed war will break out
again and the fleet is intended to attack us here. So that we may have the Subah making common
cause with the French to crush us. He'll turn against the French then, but that won't save
us. On top of that comes a fakir from Murshidabad demanding in the Subah's name that we should
stop work on our fortifications; the insolence of the wretch passes all bounds. Mr. Drake properly
refused the demand; he said we were repairing our defenses in case we needed 'em against the
French; but he undertook not to start any new works, which was a mistake.

"Altogether, Desmond, things are in a pretty mess. I'm afraid Mr. Drake is not the man to cope
with a grave situation; but he has the majority of the Council with him, and we can't alter
it. Now I think we had better turn in; perhaps I shall feel better after a good sleep; I am
certainly far from easy in mind."

Desmond slept like a top on his light mattress, enveloped in his mosquito curtains. In the
morning he accompanied Mr. Merriman to his daftarkhanah {office}, where he found a large staff
under the superintendence of the muhri {chief clerk}, Surendra Nath's father. He returned to
the house for tiffin, spent the afternoon indoors over his novel, and after the three o'clock
dinner  accompanied his host in a walk through the English quarter.

As they returned, Mr. Merriman suggested that they should walk down to Mr. Watts' house near
the river to see if any news had arrived from Cossimbazar. On the way they passed a large pakka
{substantial} house, surrounded by a compound and a low wall.

"We were talking yesterday about spies," said Merriman. "In that house lives  a  man  who 
in  my  belief  is  a  spy,  and  a treacherous scoundrel--actually living next door to Mr.
Lyre, the keeper of our military stores. He's a Sikh named Omichand, and the richest merchant
in the city. He owns half of it; he's my landlord, confound him! For forty years he was the
contractor for supplying the Company with cloth, but we found out that he was cheating us right
and left, and dismissed him. Yet he's very friendly to us, which is a bad sign. 'Twas he who
brought Krishna Das with his treasure into the place, and my belief is, he did it merely to
embroil us with the Subah. Mr. Drake is disposed to pooh-pooh the idea, but I incline to Mr.
Holwell's opinion, that Omichand's a schemer and a villain, ready to betray us to French, Dutch,
or Gentoos as it suits him."

"Why don't you turn him out, then?" asked Desmond.

"My dear boy, he's far too powerful. And we'd rather keep him in sight. While he's here we
can tell something of what is going on; his house is pretty well watched; but if he were away
he might try all manner of tricks and we should never learn anything about them. Our policy
is to be very sweet to him--to make friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, as Mr. Bellamy,
our padre, puts it. You're bound to see him one of these days, the hoary-headed old villain."

Though Mr. Merriman fully relied on Mr. Watts' discretion to send his visitors back to Calcutta
if there were the least sign of danger, he was so anxious to have his wife and daughter with
him that next day he sent a special messenger up the river asking them to return as soon as
they could. He could not fetch them, public affairs not allowing him to leave Calcutta at once,
but he promised to meet them somewhere on the way.

He spent the day in making himself acquainted with the business that had been done during his
absence. A valuable consignment of silks, muslins, and taffeties was expected from Cossimbazar,
he learned, and as soon as it arrived the Hormuzzeer would be able to sail for Penang.

"A  private  venture,"  he said to Desmond, "nothing to do with the Company."

Desmond expressed his surprise that the Company's officials were at liberty to engage in private
trading.

"Why, bless you, how could we live otherwise? Do you imagine I got rich on the Company? What
do you suppose my salary is as member of Council? 'Tis just forty pounds. The factors get fifteen
and the writers five: Colonel Clive began at five pounds a year: so you may guess that we have
to do something to keep flesh on our bones.

"And that reminds me of a proposal I wished to make to you. You have a little money from the
sale of the Pirate's grab, and you'll have more by and by when the Gheria prize money is distributed.
Why not put some of it into the Hormuzzeer? Let me buy some goods for you, and send 'em to
Penang: they'll fetch top prices there, especially in the present state of trade. 'Twill be
an excellent investment."

"Thank you, sir, I'll be glad to follow your advice."

"That's right. I'll see about it at once, and the sooner these things come from Cossimbazar
the better. The delay is vexing, and I fear I'll have to change my agent there."

Mr. Merriman being so much occupied with business and public affairs, Desmond had much time
to himself. He soon made friends among the junior merchants and factors, and in their company
went about Calcutta.

Fort William was built near the river, the factory house in the center of the inclosure. Around
it on three sides were the houses of individual merchants and officers. A wide avenue known
as the Lal Bazar led from the ravelin of the fort past the courthouse to the native part of
the town. On one side of the avenue was the Park or Lal Bagh, with a great tank by which a
band played in the evening. Around the town was the incomplete Maratha ditch.

Desmond became the object of much kindly attention from the Company's servants and their families.
Everyone was eager to hear from his own lips the story of his adventures, and invitations to
dinners and routs and card parties poured upon him. He accepted one or two and politely excused
himself from the rest, not from any want of sociability, but from motives of prudence. His
kind host had already given him a friendly warning; some of the writers and younger servants
of the Company were wild spirits, and spent more time than was good for them in cards and revels.

On the evening of the third day after his arrival he went down to the river to watch the arrival
of some country vessels. There was the usual crowd at the ghat, and as Desmond gradually worked
his way through it he suddenly  saw,  just in front of him, two men whose backs were very familiar.
They were in the dress of seamen: one was tall and thin, the other broad and brawny, and Desmond
did not need his glimpse of the iron hook to be sure that the men were none other than his
old friend Bulger and Mr. Toley, the melancholy mate. They were standing side by side watching
in silence the arrival of the boats.

Desmond  edged  his way to them until he was within arm's length of Bulger's hook. He stood
for a moment looking at them, imagining their surprise when they saw him, wondering if their
pleasure would be as keen as his own. Both appeared rather battered; Mr. Toley's expression
was never merry, and he was neither more nor less melancholy than usual; but Bulger's habitual
cheerfulness seemed to have left him; his air was moody and downcast.

How came they here? The Good Intent being an interloper, it was not at all likely that she
had ventured to put in at Calcutta.

By and by Bulger seemed to become aware that someone was gazing at him, for  he  turned  round
slowly.  Desmond could not but smile at his extraordinary change of expression. His first look
of blank amazement quickly gave place to one of almost boyish delight, and taking an eager
step forward he exclaimed:

"By thunder, 'tis Mr. Burke or his ghost! Bless my heart! Ho! shake hands, matey; this is a
sight for bad eyes!"

"Glad to see you, Bulger," said Desmond quietly; "and you, too, Mr. Toley."

Mr. Toley had shown no surprise; but then, nothing ever surprised Mr. Toley.

"Sure I'm rejoiced," he said. "We had given you up for lost."

His hearty hand grip was more convincing than his words, though, indeed, Desmond had good reason
to know the real kindliness that always lay behind his outward solemnity of manner.

"You're better in togs than when I seed you last, sir," said Bulger, gripping his hand again.
"Which you look quite the gentleman; got a berth as supercargo, sir?"

"Not yet, Bulger," replied Desmond, laughing. "How's Captain Barker?"

Bulger spat out a quid of tobacco and hitched up his breeches.

"I don't know how Captain Barker is, and what's more, I don't care," he said. "Me and Barker
en't friends: leastways, not on speakin' terms; which I will say, hang Captain Barker, topsy
versy, any way you like; and I don't care who hears me."

"What has happened?"

"Happened! Why, sir, Mr. Toley'll tell you what happened. He knows the thus, therefore, and
whereupon of it."

The good fellow was itching to tell, but as in duty bound deferred to his superior officer.

"Go on, Bulger," said the American, "you've got a looser tongue than me."

"Which I don't deny, sir. Two days ago--'twas at Chandernagore, where the Good Intent's been
laid up for a matter a' weeks--the captain he went an' forgot hisself, sir; clean forgot hisself,
an' lifted his hand to Mr. Toley; ay, hit him, sir. Wunst it was, sir, on'y wunst; then 'twas
Mr. Toley his turn. Ah, an' I warrant Captain Barker's in his bunk today. Never did I see sich
a sight all the years I've been afloat, an' that's saying something. There was captain spread
out on deck, sir, with his eyes bunged up an' a tooth or two that had lost their bearin's,
and all his bones wonderin' if they was ever goin' to get joined again.

"That's the why and wherefore of it, sir. Well, in course, 'twas no kiss-an'-be-friends arter
that; so, bein' in a mounseer's place, Mr. Toley took French leave, which I did the same, and
here we are a-lookin' for a job.

"But Lor' bless me! what's happened to you, Mr. Burke? When you didn't come aboard at that
there Gheria, Captain Barker he says, 'Log that there knave Burke a deserter,' says he. But
I says to Mr. Toley, 'I may be wrong, sir,' says I, 'but I lay my whiskers that Diggle has
been an' sold him to the Pirate, an' that's the last we shall ever see of as nice a young fellow
as ever hauled on a hawser.' How did you get out of the Pirate's den, sir?"

"That's a long story, Bulger. I'll tell you all in good time. You're looking for a job, are
you? Well, I happen to know of a skipper here--a good man: maybe he'll have a berth for a seasoned
salt like you. I'll present you to him, and I know he'll do what he can for you."

Before he left the men, Desmond took Mr. Toley aside.

"Mr. Toley," he said, "my friend Mr. Merriman wants a mate for one of his vessels, as I happen
to know. You would be willing to sign on?"

"I would, sir. I'm a man of few words."

"Very well; come up to Mr. Merriman's house by the Rope Walk and we'll see what he says."

That same day Mr. Merriman invited the American to dinner, and engaged him, to Desmond's surprise,
as first mate for the Hormuzzeer, with Bulger as bo'sun.

"Don't look so blue," he said to Desmond when Mr. Toley had gone. "He will, of course, take
your place. The fact is, I've taken a fancy to you, and I think you can do better than by serving
as mate on a coasting vessel. Look in at the daftarkhanah sometimes, and get Surendra Nath
to explain something of our business methods."

He said no more at that time, and Desmond felt no little curiosity about his host's intentions.

One evening Desmond was sitting alone on the veranda, reading, awaiting Mr. Merriman's return
from a meeting of the Council to which he had been hastily summoned. Hearing a footstep, he
looked up, and was surprised to see, instead of Mr. Merriman, as he expected, Bulger hastening
up with an air of excitement.

"Mr. Burke, sir, what d'you think I've seed? I could hardly believe my own eyes. I was walkin'
down towards the fort when I seed two men goin' into a big house. They was Englishmen, leastways
white men, and I may be wrong, but I bet my boots one on 'em was that there soft-speakin' villain
Diggle."

"Diggle!"  exclaimed  Desmond, springing up. "You must be mistaken, Bulger."

"I may be wrong, sir, but I never remembers any time when I was."

"What house did he go into?"

"That I can't tell you, sir, not bein' sure o' my bearin's."

"But you could point it out?"

"'Course I could. Rather. Just so."

"Then I'll came along with you, and you can show me. If it is Diggle, we must have him arrested."

"True, an' I'll knot the rope for his neck."

"How long ago was this?"

"Not a quarter of an hour, sir. I comed up at once."

The  two  set off together. They quickly reached the house; Desmond recognized it as Omichand's.
The evening was closing in, but no lights were visible through the chiks {hanging screens made
of thin strips of bamboo} that covered the windows. While Desmond was considering, two figures
stepped down from the veranda and walked rapidly across the compound towards the gate in the wall.

At the first glance Desmond saw that Bulger had not been mistaken. The taller of the two figures
was disguised, but it was impossible to mistake the gloved right hand. It was Diggle to a certainty.

"Are you game to capture them?" said Desmond.

Bulger grunted and gave a twist to his hook.

"I'll take Diggle," added Desmond: "you go for the other man."

They waited in the shadow of the wall. The gate opened, the two men came out, and in an instant
Desmond and his companion dashed forward. Taken by surprise, the men had no time to defend
themselves. With his left hand Desmond caught at Diggle's sword arm, and, pointing his rapier
at his heart, said:

"You are my prisoner, Mr. Diggle."

At the same moment Bulger had caught the second man by the throat, and raising his formidable
hook, cried:

"Heave to, matey, or I'll spoil your mug for you."

The man uttered an exclamation in French, which ended in a wheeze as Bulger's strong fingers
clutched his windpipe.

But the next moment an unlooked-for diversion occurred. Attracted by the sound  of  the rapid
scuffle, a number of natives armed with lathis {bludgeons} rushed across the compound into
the street, and came swiftly to the rescue. Desmond and his companion had perforce to release
their prisoners and turn to defend themselves. With their backs against the wall they met the
assailants, Desmond with his rapier, Bulger with his hook, each dexterously warding off the
furious blows of the excited natives.  Diggle  and  the  Frenchman took instant advantage of
the opportunity to slip away, and the Englishmen had already got home more than one shrewd
blow, provoking yells of pain from the attackers, when the onslaught suddenly ceased, and the
natives stood rigid, as if under a spell. Looking round, Desmond saw at the gate a bent old
figure with dusky, wrinkled face and prominent eyes. He wore a turban in which a jewel sparkled,
and his white garment was girt with a yellow sash.

"What is this, sahib?" he said severely in careful English, addressing Desmond.

"'Tis pretty plain what it is," said Desmond somewhat hotly; "we have been set upon by these
six ruffians."

The newcomer motioned with his hand, and the men slunk away.

"I regret, sahib. The men are badmashes; Calcutta is unhappily in a disturbed state."

"Badmashes or not, they came from your house--if this is your house."

"It is my house, sahib. My name is Omichand. I must inquire how the badmashes came to be in
my compound. I fear my darwan {doorkeeper} is at fault."

"And what about the two men?"

"The two men, sahib?"

"Yes, the two Europeans who came first from the house, and were protected by these ruffians?"

"You must be mistaken, sahib. English sahibs do not visit at the houses of Indian gentlemen.
If the sahib had been longer in Calcutta he would know that."

A  smile flickered on the Indian's face, but it was gone instantly. Desmond was nonplussed.
It was useless to contradict the merchant; he was clearly not disposed to give any information;
Diggle was gone. All he could do was to return and report the matter to Mr. Merriman.

"Come along, Bulger," he said, with an unceremonious gesture to Omichand. "We can do no good here."

"The old Ananias!" growled Bulger, as they walked away. "What in thunder is Diggle's game here?
I'd give a year's 'baccy to have a chanst o' usin' my hook on him."

Mr. Merriman looked grave when he heard what had happened.

"To think of that villain once more escaping our clutches! The other fellow was a Frenchman,
you say? There's mischief brewing. Sure if I was president I'd be tempted to arrest that wily
old Omichand. Not that it would be of much use, probably. Peloti is a bold fellow to venture
here. You are sure 'twas he?"

"Absolutely. His disguise was good: he has altered his face in some way, and his dress is altogether
changed; but I couldn't mistake the covered hand."

"'Tis an odd thing, that mitten. Probably it conceals some defect; the man's as vain as a peacock.
The mitten is a thing by which he may be traced, and I'll send my peons to start inquiries
tomorrow. But I've something to say to you: something to propose. The Hormuzzeer is ready to
sail, save for that consignment at Cossimbazar I mentioned. My agent there is an Armenian named
Coja Solomon; I've employed him for some years, and found him trustworthy; but I can't get
delivery of these goods. I've sent two or three messengers to him, asking him to hurry, but
he  replies that there is some difficulty about the dastaks--papers authorizing the despatch
of goods free from customs duty.

"Now, will you go up the river and see what is causing the delay? I'll give you an introduction
to Mr. Watts; he will do all he can for you, though no doubt his hands are full. You can take
Surendra Nath with you to interpret; and you had better have some armed peons as an escort,
and perhaps a number of men we can trust to work the boat if you can release the goods. Are
you willing?"

"I  will  gladly  do  anything  I can, sir. Indeed, I wished for an opportunity to see something
of the country."

"You may see too much! I'd say beware of tigers, but Surendra Nath is so desperately  timid
that you can depend on him not to lead you into danger."

"The Hormuzzeer will not sail until I return?"

"Not till the goods arrive. Why do you ask?"

"I should like to take Bulger with me. He's a good companion, with a shrewd head."

"And a useful hook. I have no objection. You will be ready to start tomorrow, then. You must
be up early: traveling will be impossible in the heat of the day."

"At dawn, sir."

At sunrise next morning Desmond found his party awaiting him at the Causeway beyond the Maratha
ditch. The natives salaamed when he came up in company with Mr. Merriman, and Bulger pulled
his forelock.

"Mornin', sir; mornin'; I may be wrong, but 'tis my belief we're goin' to have a bilin' hot
day, and I've come accordin'."

He was clad in nothing but shirt and breeches, with his coat strapped to his back, and a hat
apparently improvised out of cabbage leaves. The natives were all in white, with their employer's
pink ribbons. Some were armed with matchlocks and pikes; others carried light cooking utensils;
others, groceries for the Englishmen's use; for their own food they depended on the villages
through which they would pass.

"Well, I wish you a good journey," said Mr. Merriman, who appeared to be in better spirits
than for many a day. "I'm glad to tell you, Burke, that I got a letter from Mr. Watts this
morning, saying that my wife and daughter  are  on  their way down the river with Mrs. Watts
and her children. They've got Mr. Warren Hastings to escort them: trust 'em to find a handsome
man! The road follows the river, and if you look out I dare  say you will see them. You'll
recognize our livery. Introduce yourself if you meet 'em. You have your letter from Mr. Watts?
That's all right. Goodby, and good luck to you."

The party set off. The old road by which they were to travel ran at a short  distance from
the left bank of the Hugli, passing through an undulating country, interspersed with patches
of low wood and scattered trees. The scenery was full of charm for Desmond: the rich vegetation;
antelopes darting among the trees; flamingoes and pelicans standing motionless at the edge
of the slow-gliding river; white-clad figures coming down the broad steps of the riverside
ghats to bathe; occasionally the dusky corpse of some devotee consigned by his relations to
the bosom of the holy river.

The first halt was called at Barrackpur, where, amid a luxuriant grove of palms and bamboos,
stood some beautiful pagodas, built of the unburnt brick of the country, and faced with a fine
stucco that gleamed in the sunlight  like polished marble. Here, under the shade of the palms,
Desmond lay through the hot afternoon, watching the boats of all shapes and sizes that floated
lazily down the broad-bosomed stream. In the evening the march was resumed; the party crossed
the river by a ford at Pulta Ghat, and following the road on the other bank came at sundown
to the outskirts of the French settlement at Chandernagore. There they camped for the night.
Desmond was for some time tormented by the doleful yells of packs of jackals roaming abroad
in search of food. Their cries so much resembled those of human beings in dire agony that he
shivered on his mattress; but falling asleep at length, he slept soundly and woke with the dawn.

He started again soon after sunrise. Just beyond Chandernagore Bulger pointed out the stripped
spars of the Good Intent, lying far up a narrow creek.

"Wouldn't I just like to cut her out?" said Bulger. "But 'spose we can't stop for that, sir?"

"Certainly not. And you'd have the French about our ears."

Passing the Dutch settlement at Chinsura, he came into a country of rice fields, now bare,
broken by numerous nullahs worn by the torrents in the rainy season, but now nearly dry. Here
and there the party had to ford a jhil--an extensive shallow lake formed by the rains. Desmond
tried a shot or two at the flights of teal that floated on these ponds; but they were so wild
that he could never approach within range. Towards evening, after passing the little village
of Amboa, they came to a grove of peepuls filled with green parrots and monkeys screaming and
jabbering as though engaged in a competition. A few miles farther on they arrived at the larger
village of Khulna, where they tied up for the night.

Next morning Desmond was wakened by Surendra Nath.

"Sahib," he said, "the bibi and the chota bibi are here."

"Mrs. Merriman?"

"Yes. They arrived last night by boat, and are pursuing their journey today."

"I should like to see them before they go. But I'm afraid I am hardly presentable."

"Believe me, sahib, you will not offend the bibi's punctilio."

"Well, send one of the peons to say that I shall have the pleasure of waiting on Mrs. Merriman
in half an hour, if she will permit me."

Having shaved and bathed, and donned a change of clothes, Desmond set off accompanied by Surendra
Nath to visit the ladies. He found them on a long shallow boat, in a cabin constructed of laths
and mats filling one end of the light craft. The Babu made the introduction, then effaced himself.

A lady, whose voice seemed to waken an echo in Desmond's memory, said:

"How do you do, Mr. Burke? I have heard of you in my husband's letters. Is the dear man well?"

"He is in good health, ma'am, but somewhat anxious to have you back again."

"Dear man! What is he anxious about? Mr. Watts seemed anxious also to get rid  of  us. He was
vexed that Mrs. Watts is too much indisposed to accompany us. And Mr. Warren Hastings, who
was to escort us, was quite angry because he had to go to one of the out-factories instead.
I do not understand why these gentlemen are so much disturbed."

Desmond saw that Mrs. Merriman had been deliberately kept in ignorance of the grounds of the
Englishmen's anxiety, and was seeking on the spur of the moment for a means to divert her from
the subject, when he was spared the necessity. Miss Merriman had been looking at him curiously,
and she now  turned to her mother and said something in a tone inaudible to Desmond.

"La! you don't say so, my dear," exclaimed the lady.

"Why. Mr. Burke, my daughter tells me that we have met you before."

His vague recollection of Mrs. Merriman's voice being thus so suddenly confirmed, he recalled,
as from a far distant past, a scene upon Hounslow Heath;  a coach that stood perilously near
the ditch, a girl at the horses' heads, a lady stamping her foot at two servants wrestling
in drunken stupidity on the ground.

"You  never gave us an opportunity of thanking you," continued Mrs. Merriman. "'Twas not kind
of you, Mr. Burke, to slip away thus without a word after doing two poor lone women such a
service."

"Indeed, ma'am, 'twas with no discourteous intention, but seeing you were safe with your friends
I--I--in short, ma'am--"

Desmond stopped in confusion, at a loss for a satisfactory explanation. The ladies were smiling.

"You thought to flee our acknowledgments," said Mrs. Merriman. "La, la, I know; I have a young
brother of my own. But you shall not escape them now, and what is more, I shall see that Merriman,
poor man, adds his, for I am sure he has forgiven you your exploit."

The younger lady laughed outright, while Desmond looked from one to the other. What did they mean?

"Indeed, ma'am," he said, "I had no idea--"

"That there was need for forgiveness?" said the lady, taking him up. "But indeed there was-eh,
Phyllis?

"Mr. Burke," she added, with a sudden solemnity, "a few minutes after you left  us at Soho
Square Merriman rode up, and I assure you I nearly swooned, poor man! and hardly had strength
to send for the surgeon. It needed three stitches--and he such a handsome man, too."

A horrid suspicion flashed through Desmond's mind. He remembered the scar on Mr. Merriman's
brow, and that it was a scarcely healed wound when he met him with Clive on that unfortunate
occasion in Billiter Street.

"Surely, ma'am, you don't mean--the highwayman?"

"Indeed I do. That is just it. Your highwayman was--Mr. Merriman. Fancy the hurt to his feelings,
to say nothing of his good looks. Fie, fie, Mr. Burke!"

For a moment Desmond did not know whether embarrassment or amazement was uppermost with him.
It was bad enough to have tripped Mr. Merriman up in the muddy street; but to have also dealt
him a blow of which he would retain the mark to his dying day--"This is terrible!" he thought.
Still there was an element of absurdity in the adventure that appealed to his sense of the
ridiculous. But he felt the propriety of being apologetic, and was about to express his regret
for his mistake when Mrs. Merriman interrupted him with a smile:

"But there, Mr. Burke, he bears you no grudge, I am sure. He is the essence of good temper.
It was a mistake; he saw that when I explained; and when he had vented his spleen on the coachman
next day he owned that it was a plucky deed in you to take charge of us, and indeed he said
that you was a mighty good whip; although," she added laughing, "you was a trifle heavy in hand."

Desmond felt bound to make a full confession. He related the incident of his encounter with
Merriman in London--how he had toppled him over in the mud--wondering how the ladies would
take it. He was relieved when they received his story with a peal of laughter.

"Oh, mamma; and it was his new frock!" said Phyllis.

"La, so it was, just fresh from Mr. Small's in Wigmore Street--forty guineas and no less!"

"Well, ma'am, I'm already forgiven for that; I trust that with your good favor my earlier indiscretion
will be forgiven."

"Indeed it shall be, Mr. Burke, I promise you. Now tell me: what brings you here?"

Desmond explained his errand in a few words. The ladies wished him a prosperous journey, and
said they would hope to see him in a few days on his return. He left them, feeling that he
had gained friends, and with a new  motive,  of  which  he was only vaguely conscious, to a
speedy accomplishment of his business.

On the evening of the sixth day after leaving Calcutta there came into sight a church of considerable
size, which Surendra Nath explained was the temple of the Armenian colony of Cossimbazar. Passing
this, and leaving a maze of native dwellings and the French factory on the left, the travelers
reached the Dutch factory, and beyond this the English settlement and fort.

Leaving the Babu to arrange quarters for the peons in the native part of the town, Desmond
hastened on past the stables and the hospital to the factory. It was a rough oblong in shape,
defended at each corner by a bastion mounted with ten guns, the bastions being connected by
massive curtains. In the south curtain, windowed for the greater part of its length, was the
gateway. Desmond was admitted by a native servant, and in a few minutes found himself in the
presence of the chief, Mr. William Watts.

Mr. Watts was a tall man of near forty years--of striking presence, with firm chin, pleasant
mouth, and eyes of peculiar depth and brilliance. He was clad in a long purple-laced coat,
with ruffles at the wrists and a high stock, and wore the short curled wig of the period. He
welcomed Desmond with great cordiality, and, glancing over Mr. Merriman's letter, said:

"My friend Mr. Merriman needlessly disturbs himself, I think. I apprehend no immediate difficulty
with the new Subah, although 'tis true there have been  little vexations. As to the goods,
they are in Coja Solomon's godown; they were delivered some time ago and paid for; what the
reason of the delay is I cannot tell. One thing I may mention--it appears that Mr. Merriman
is ignorant of it: Coja Solomon has lately become the agent of Omichand, whose peons have been
seen to visit him, then passing on to Murshidabad. I happen to know also that he has communicated
with Coja Wajid: do you know anything of him?"

"No, sir; I have never heard his name."

"He's a rich Armenian trader in Hugli, and acts as agent between the Nawab  and  the  French
and  Dutch.  We suspect him of encouraging Sirajuddaula against us; but of course we can't
prove anything. My advice to you is, be wary and be quick; don't trust any of these fellows
further than you can see them. But you can't do anything tonight. You will allow me to give
you a bed: in the morning you can make a call on Coja Solomon. What has become of your peons?"

"A Babu I brought with me is looking after them. But I have an English seaman also: can you
tell me what to do with him?"

"Sure he can lodge with Sergeant Bowler close by--near the southeast bastion. The sergeant
will be glad of the company of a fellow countryman; your man will be a change after the Dutchmen
and topasses he has to do with."

Early next morning Desmond, accompanied by Surendra Nath, went to find Coja Solomon. He lived
in a house not far from the Armenian church, between it and the river. The Armenian was at
home. He received Desmond with great politeness, assuring him with much volubility that he
had but one  interest  in  life, and that was the business of his honorable employer, Mr. Merriman.
He invited Desmond to accompany him to the godown near the river where the goods were stored--muslins
of Dacca, both plain and flowered, Bengal raw silk, and taffeties manufactured in Cossimbazar.

"You have not been long in the country, sir," said Coja Solomon, with a shrewd look at Desmond,
"and therefore you will find it hard to believe, perhaps, that these goods, so insignificant
in bulk, are worth over two lakhs of rupees. A precious load indeed, sir. This delay is naturally
a cause of vexation to my distinguished superior, but it is not due to any idleness  or inattention
on my part. It is caused by the surprising difficulty of getting the dastaks countersigned
by the Faujdar {officer in command of troops, and also a magistrate}--Without his signature,
as you know, the goods can not be removed. I dare not venture."

"But why didn't the Faujdar sign the papers?"

"That  I cannot tell. I send messengers to him: they come back: the Faujdar is much occupied
with the Nawab's business, but he will attend to this  little matter as soon as he has leisure.
He calls it a little matter; and so it is, perhaps, if we remember that the Nawab's wealth
is reckoned by millions; but it is not a little matter to Mr. Merriman, and I deeply deplore
the unfortunate delay."

"Well, be good enough to send another message at once. Represent to the Faujdar that Mr. Merriman's
ship is prevented from sailing until the goods reach Calcutta, and that this causes great inconvenience
and loss."

Here the Babu whispered in his ear.

"Yes, and add--you will know how to put it--that if the dastaks are sent off immediately, the
Faujdar will receive from Mr. Merriman a suitable gratification."

The Armenian rubbed his hands and smilingly assented; but Desmond, who had had some practice
in reading faces since he left Market Drayton eighteen months before, felt an uneasy suspicion
that Coja Solomon was a scamp. Returning to the factory, he acquainted Mr. Watts with the result
of his interview and his opinion of the agent. The chief's eye twinkled.

"You haven't been long reckoning him up, Mr. Burke. I'm afraid you're right. I'll see what
I can do for you."

Calling "Qui hai {'Is there any one?'--used as a summons}!" he ordered the  peon  who appeared
in answer to his summons to go to the black merchants' houses, a row of two-story buildings
some forty yards from the southwest bastion, and bring back with him Babu Joti Lal Chatterji.

In less than ten minutes the man returned with an intelligent-looking young Bengali. Mr. Watts
addressed the latter in Hindustani, bidding him hasten to Murshidabad and find out quietly
what the Faujdar was doing with the dastaks. When he had gone, Mr. Watts showed Desmond over
the fort, introduced him to his wife, and then took him round the English settlement.

Next day Joti Lal Chatterji returned from Murshidabad with the news that the dastaks, duly
signed by the Faujdar, had been delivered to Coja Solomon a fortnight before.

"'Tis rather worse than I expected," said Mr. Watts gravely. "There is something  in  this
that I do not understand. We will send for Coja Solomon."

No one could have seemed more genuinely surprised than the Armenian when informed  of  what
had been learned. He had received no dastaks, he declared;  either  a  mistake had been made,
or the papers had been intercepted, possibly by some enemy who had a grudge against him and
wished to embroil him with his employer. It was annoying, he agreed; and he offered to go to
Murshidabad himself and, if necessary, get other dastaks signed.

"Very well," said Mr. Watts, from whose manner no one could have guessed that he suspected
his visitor. "We shall look for you tomorrow."

The man departed. Nothing was heard of him for two days. Then a letter arrived, saying that
he remained in Murshidabad, awaiting the return of the Faujdar, who had been summoned to Rajmahal
by the Nawab Sirajuddaula. Three more days slipped by, and nothing further was heard from Coja
Solomon.

Desmond became more and more impatient. Bulger suggested that they should break into the godown
and remove the goods without any ceremony--a course that Desmond himself was not disinclined
to adopt; but when he hinted at it to Mr. Watts that gentleman's look of horror could not have
been more expressive if his consent had been asked to commit a crime.

"Why, Mr. Burke, if we acted in that impetuous way we'd have all Bengal at our throats. Trade
must pass through the usual channels; to convey goods  from  here  to  Calcutta  without  a
dastak would be a grave misdemeanor, if not high treason; and it would get us into very hot
water with the Nawab. I can only advise patience."

One morning, Desmond had just finished breakfast with Mr. Watts and his wife,  when  Lieutenant
Elliott,  in command of the garrison, came unceremoniously into the room.

"Mr.  Watts," he said, "the fat's in the fire. A lot of the Nawab's Persian cavalry have come
into the town during the night. They have surrounded the French and Dutch factories and are
coming on here."

"Don't be alarmed, my dear," said the chief, as his wife started up in a state of panic; "'tis
only one of the Nawab's tricks. He has used that means of extorting money before. We'll buy
them off, never fear."

But  it  was soon seen that the troops had come with a more serious purpose. They completely
invested the factory, and next day withdrew the guards  that had been placed around the French
and Dutch forts, and confined their whole attention to the British. Mr. Watts withdrew all
the garrison  and officials behind the bastioned walls of the fort, and fearing that an attack
in force would be made upon him, despatched a kasid {courier} to Calcutta with an urgent request
for reinforcements.

While waiting anxiously for the reply, he took stock of his position. His garrison numbered
only fifty men all told, half of them being Dutch deserters and the remainder half-caste topasses,
with only two English officers, Lieutenant Elliott and Sergeant Bowler. The guns of the fort
were old; and within a few yards of the walls were houses that would afford excellent cover
to the enemy. Without help resistance for any length of time was impossible, and to resist
at all meant a declaration of war against the Nawab, and would entail serious consequences--possibly
involve  the total ruin of the Company in Bengal. In this difficult position Mr. Watts hoped
that an opportunity of making an arrangement with the besiegers would offer itself. Meanwhile,
pending the arrival of instructions from Calcutta, he gave orders that any attempt to force
an entrance to the fort was to be repelled.

But no letters came from Calcutta. Though several were despatched, none of them reached Cossimbazar.
On June first Ridurlabh, in command of the besiegers, received orders from the Nawab, now at
Murshidabad, to take the  fort.  He came to the gate and tried to force an entrance, but hurriedly
withdrew when he met Sergeant Bowler's gleaming bayonet and saw the gunners standing by with
lighted matches in their hands.

By and by he sent a messenger asking Mr. Watts to come out and parley. and offering a betel,
the usual native pledge of safe conduct. Against the advice of Lieutenant Elliott, Mr. Watts
decided to leave the fort and visit  the  Nawab himself. Next day, therefore, with Mr. Forth,
the surgeon, and two servants, he departed, cheerfully declaring that he would make all right
with Sirajuddaula. Mr. Forth returned a day later with the news that on reaching the Nawab's
tent both he and Mr. Watts had had their arms bound behind their backs and been led as prisoners
into Sirajuddaula's presence. The Nawab had demanded their signatures to a document   binding
the  English  at  Calcutta  to  demolish  their fortifications. Mr. Watts explained that the
signatures of two other members of his Council were required, hoping that the delay would allow
time for help to reach him from Calcutta. After some hesitation two gentlemen left the fort
with the surgeon.

The same evening Mr. Forth once more returned to inform the garrison that the members of Council
had likewise been imprisoned, and that Mr. Watts recommended Lieutenant Elliott to deliver
up the fort and ammunition.

The merchants in the factory were aghast; Lieutenant Elliott fumed with indignation; but they
saw that they had no alternative. Their chief had been  removed by treachery; to resist was
hopeless; and though such submission  to  a native was galling they could but recognize their
helplessness and make the best of a bad situation. Desmond, besides sharing in their anger,
had a further cause for concern in the almost certain loss of Mr. Merriman's goods. But the
fort would not be given up till next day, and before he retired to rest he received a message
that turned his thoughts into another channel and made him set his wits to work.

During the siege natives had been allowed to go freely in and out between the fort and the
settlement; Ridurlabh was confident in his superior numbers and could afford to regard with
indifference the despatch of messages to Calcutta. A messenger came to Desmond in the evening
from Surendra Nath, to say that Coja Solomon had returned to Cossimbazar, and was now loading
up Mr. Merriman's goods in petalas {cargo boats}, their destination being Murshidabad. Desmond
saw at once that the Armenian was taking advantage of the disturbance to make away with the
goods for his own behoof. He could always pretend afterwards that his godown had been plundered.
It was pretty clear, too, that his long detention of the goods must be due to his having had
a hint of the Nawab's plans.

This news reached Desmond just after Mr. Forth had brought orders for the surrender of the
fort. He kept his own counsel. After his experience at Gheria he was resolved not to be made
a prisoner again; but he would not be content with merely saving his own skin. Mr. Merriman's
goods were valuable; it touched Desmond's self esteem to think he should be bested by a rascally
Armenian. If there had been any prospect of a fight in defense of the fort he would have stayed
to take his part in it; but as the factory was to be given up without a struggle he saw no
reason for considering anything except the interests of Mr. Merriman and himself.

Only one thing gave him a slight qualm. The equities of the case were perfectly clear; but
he had some doubt as to the issue if it should become known that he had forcibly made off with
the goods. The relations between the Nawab and the Company were so strained, and the circumstances
of the moment so dangerous, that such action on his part might prove the spark to a train of
gunpowder. But he could not help thinking that the Nawab  was  in any case bent on picking
a quarrel with the Company; anything that Desmond might do would be but one petty incident
in a possible campaign; meanwhile the goods were worth two lakhs of rupees, a serious loss
to Mr. Merriman if Coja Solomon's plans succeeded; an effort to save them was surely worth
the risk, and they could only be saved if he  could  secure  them before the Armenian's boats
had started for Murshidabad.

He did not take long to decide upon a plan. Calling the native who had attended  him  in  the
fort, he sent him out to Surendra Nath with instructions to prepare his peons for instant action.
Bulger was with them; he had been absent from Bowler's house when the order came to retire
to the fort, and only just succeeded in joining Surendra Nath before the investment began.

From Joti Lal Chatterji, the man whom Mr. Watts had employed to make inquiries in Murshidabad,
the servant was to get a dress such as would be worn by a khitmatgar {table servant}, and some
material for staining the skin. In the darkness Desmond hoped that he might pass without question
for a native so long as disguise was necessary. Within an hour the man returned, bringing the
articles required.

The short twilight was thickening into darkness when Desmond, with face, legs, and arms stained
brown, slipped out of the fort in native dress and walked slowly towards the houses of the
native merchants. In his hand he carried a small bundle. Reaching the house where his party
was staying, kept by one Abdul Kader, he almost betrayed himself by forgetting to slip off
his sandals as he entered. But he bethought himself in time and was admitted without question.

He found that he was not a moment too soon. Bulger had taken up his quarters there with a very
bad grace, the arrival of the Nawab's army having aroused in him the fighting spirit of the
sturdy British tar. But when the news ran through the settlement that the fort was to be given
up his feelings overcame him, and it was only with the greatest difficulty that Surendra Nath
had persuaded him to wait patiently for orders from Desmond. Then the Babu himself had quitted
the house, and Bulger was left without the restraint of anyone who could speak English. He
was on the point of casting off all prudence and stalking out, like Achilles from his tent,
when Desmond arrived.

"By thunder, sir!" he said, when he had recovered from his astonishment at seeing Desmond in
native dress, "I en't a-goin' to surrender to no Moors, sure as my name's Bulger. 'Tis a downright
scandalous shame; that's what I call it."

"Well, you can tell Mr. Watts so if ever you see him. At present we have no time to waste in
talk. Where is Surendra Nath?"

"Gone to keep his weather eye on the codger's godown, sir."

"Which shows he's a man of sense. Are all the men here?"

"So far as I know, sir. I may be wrong."

"Well, they'll make their way in small parties down to the river. 'Tis dark enough now; they
will not be noticed, and they can steal along the bank under the trees until they come near
Coja Solomon's ghat. You must come with me."

"Very good, sir," replied Bulger, hitching up his breeches and drawing his hanger.

"But not like that. You'll have to get those black whiskers of yours shaved, my man. If they
grew all over you'd pass perhaps for a Moor; but not with a fringe like that. And you must
stain your face; I have the stuff in this bundle; and we'll borrow a dhoti and sandals from
Abdul Kader. We'll dress you up between us."

Bulger looked aghast.

"Dash my buttons, sir, I'll look like a November guy! What would my mates say, a-seein' me
dressed up like a stuffed Moor at Smithfield fair--a penny a shy, sir?"

"Your mates are not here to see you, and if you hold your tongue they'll never know it."

"But what about this little corkscrew o' mine, sir? I don't see any ways o' dressin' that up."

"You can stick it into your dhoti. Now here are soap and a razor; I give you ten minutes to
shave and get your face stained; Abdul Kader will help. Quick's the word, man."

A  quarter of an hour later Desmond left the house with Bulger, the latter, in spite of the
darkness, looking very much ashamed of himself. The  other members of the party had already
gone towards the river. Walking  very slowly until they had safely cleared the lines of the
investing troops, the two hurried their pace and about half-past eight reached the Armenian
godown. The three boats containing Mr. Merriman's goods were moored at the ghat. A number of
men were on board, and bales were still being carried down by the light of torches. It appeared
that Coja Solomon had no intention of leaving until the factory was actually in Rai Durlabh's
hands.

Desmond had already decided that, to legalize his position, he must gain possession of the
dastaks. Not that they would help him much if, as was only too probable, Coja Solomon should
be backed up by the Nawab. As soon as it was discovered that the goods had been carried off,
kasids would undoubtedly be sent along the banks, possibly swift boats would set off down the
river in pursuit, and, dastaks or no dastaks, the goods would be impounded at Khulna or Hugli
and himself arrested. It was therefore of the first importance that the loss of the boats should
not be discovered until he was well on his way, and to insure this he must secure the person
of Coja Solomon. If that could be done there was a chance of delaying the pursuit, or preventing
it altogether.

Desmond  kept  well in the shelter of the palm trees as he made his observation of the ghat.
He wondered where Surendra Nath was, but could not waste time in looking for him. Retracing
his steps with Bulger for a little distance, he came to a spot on the river bank where the
rest of his party were waiting in a boat, moored to an overhanging tree. He ordered the men
to land; then, leaving Bulger in charge of them, he selected three of the armed peons and with
them made his way across paddy {rice} fields toward the Armenian's house, a hundred yards or
so from the bank.

Light came through the reed-screened window. Bidding the men remain outside and rush in if
he called them, he left the shelter of the trees and, approaching the door, stumbled over the
darwan lying across the threshold.

"Hai, darwan!" he said, with the bluntness of servant addressing servant; "sleeping  again!
Go  and  tell your master I'm here to see him: a khitmatgar from the fort."

The  man rose sleepily and preceded him into the house. He made the announcement, salaamed
and retired. Desmond went in.

In a little room on the ground floor Coja Solomon reclined on a divan, smoking his hubblebubble.
A small oil lamp burnt on a bracket above his head. He looked up as Desmond entered; if he
thought that his visitor was somewhat better set-up than the average khitmatgar, he did not
suspect any disguise. The light was dim, and Coja Solomon was old.

"Good evening, Khwaja," said Desmond quietly.

The man jumped as if shot.

"No, don't get up, and don't make a noise. My business with you will not take long. I will
ask you to hand over Mr. Merriman's dastaks. I know that they are in your possession. I have
come to get them, and to take away the goods--Mr. Merriman's goods."

The Armenian had meanwhile removed the mouthpiece of his hubblebubble, and was bending over
as if to replace it by one of several that lay on a shelf at his right hand. But Desmond noticed
that beneath the shelf stood a  small  gong. He whipped out a pistol, and pointed it full at
the merchant.

"Don't touch that," he said curtly. "I have not come unprepared, as you see. Your plans are
known to me. If you value your life you will do as I wish, without delay or disturbance. My
men are outside; a word from me will bring them swarming in. Now, the dastaks!"

Coja  Solomon was an Armenian and a merchant; in neither capacity a fighting man. In a contest
of wits he could be as cool and as ready as any man in Bengal; but he had no skill in arms
and no physical courage. There was an air of determination about his visitor that impressed
him; and he felt by no means comfortable within point-blank range of the pistol covering him
so completely. If his thoughts had been read, they would  have  run  somewhat thus: "Pistols
have been known to go off accidentally. What will the goods profit me if such an accident happen
now? Besides, even if I yield there may still be a chance of saving them. It is a long way
to Calcutta: the river is low: God be praised the rains have not begun! There are shallows
and rocks along its course: the boats must go slowly: and the Nawab's horsemen can soon outstrip
them on the banks. The dog of an Englishman thinks he has outwitted me: we shall see. And he
is only a youth: let us see if Coja Solomon is not a match for him."

Rising to his feet, he smiled and shrugged, and spread out his hands deprecatingly.

"It  is true the dastaks are here," he said suavely, "but they only reached me yesterday, and
indeed, as soon as I received them, I had the goods put on board the boats for transit to Calcutta."

"That is very fortunate," said Desmond. "It will save my time. As Mr. Merriman's representative
I will take over the goods--with the dastaks."

"If you will excuse me, I will fetch them."

"Stay!"  said Desmond, as the man moved toward the door. He had not lowered the pistol. "Where
are they?"

"They are in my office beside the godown."

"Very well. It would be a pity to trouble you to bring them here. I will go with you. Will
you lead the way?"

He knew it was a lie. Valuable papers would not be left in a hut of an office, and he had already
noticed a curiously wrought almara {cabinet} at one end of the room--just the place to keep
documents.

There  was  the  shadow  of a scowl on the Armenian's face. The man hesitated;  then walked
towards the door: stopped as if at a sudden recollection; and turned to Desmond with a bland smile.

"I was forgetting," he said, "I brought the papers here for safety's sake."

He went to the almara, searched for a moment, and handed two papers to Desmond.

"There,  sir,"  he said, with a quite paternal smile; "you take the responsibility. In these
unfortunate circumstances"--he waved his hand in the direction of the factory--"it is, believe
me, a relief to me to see the last of these papers.

"That is well."

But Desmond, as he took the papers, felt himself in a quandary. Though he could speak, he could
not read Hindustani! The papers might not be the dastaks after all. What was he to do?

The peons were not likely to be able to read. He scanned the papers. There was the name Merriman
in English characters, but all the rest was in native script. The smile hovering on the Armenian's
face annoyed Desmond, and he was still undecided what to do when a voice at his elbow gave
him welcome relief.

"Babu Surendra Nath Chuckerbutti," announced the darwan.

The Babu entered.

"Come and tell me if these are our dastaks," said Desmond.

The Babu ran his eyes over the papers, and declared:

"Yes, sir, they are the identical papers, and I perceive the signature of the Faujdar is dated
three weeks ago."

"Thank you," said Desmond.

"Now, Coja Solomon, I must ask you to come with me."

"Why, sir--" began the Armenian, no longer smiling.

"I will explain to you by and by.--

"What is it, Surendra Nath?"

The Babu whispered a word or two in his ear.

"A happy thought!" said Desmond. "Surendra Nath suggests that I should borrow that excellent
robe I see yonder, Khwaja; and your turban also. They will become me better than this khitmatgar's
garb, I doubt not."

Coja  Solomon  looked on helplessly as Desmond exchanged his meaner garments for the richer
clothes of his unwilling host.

"Now we will go. You will tell the darwan that you have gone down to the ghat,  so  that if
a question is asked he will be at no loss for an answer."

In the faint light of the rising moon the barrel of the pistol gleamed as they came into the
open. The Armenian marched between Desmond and the Babu. Behind came the three peons, moving
as silently as ghosts.

"The Khwaja," said Desmond to them in the Armenian's hearing, as they reached the ghat, "is
coming a little way with us down the river.

"You, Kristodas Das, will go and tell Bulger Sahib that I wish him to follow the Khwaja's boats
at a few yards' distance, and to be prepared to board at any moment.

"You," turning to the other two peons, "will come with me. The Khwaja will send word to his
durwan that he is going to Murshidabad by river and will not return tonight; his house is to
be locked up. The Khwaja will, I am sure, give these orders correctly, for Surendra Nath will
understand better than I what he says."

With the Babu, the two peons, and Coja Solomon, who was now obviously ill at ease, Desmond
went down the ghat to the place where the crews of the petalas were assigned to him. The man
dared not depart by a jot from the words put into his mouth. One of his coolies left with the
message, the rest followed their employer on board with Desmond and his companions, and in
a few minutes the three boats were cast off and stood upstream. As they started Desmond saw
the boat containing Bulger and his men slip from the shade of the trees and begin to creep
after them.

The boats had not gone more than a couple of hundred yards upstream when Coja Solomon, at Desmond's
orders, bade the men row toward the opposite shore and turn the boats' heads round, explaining
that he had decided after all to convey the goods to Hugli. There was some grumbling among
the crew, who had expected to go to Murshidabad, and did not relish the prospect of the longer
voyage. But the Armenian, knowing that every word was overheard by Desmond's men, made haste
to pacify the boatmen.

It was by no means easy work getting down the river. The boats were flat bottomed and drew
very little water; but the stream being very low, they stuck fast time after time in the shallows.
By day the boatmen might have picked their way more carefully, but the moon was new and shed
too little light for river navigation. More than once they had to leap overboard and, wading,
shove and haul until the boats came off the mud banks into practicable water again. They rowed
hard when the course was clear, encouraged by promises of liberal bakshish made by their employer
at Desmond's prompting. But the interruptions were so frequent that the dawn found the boats
only some thirty miles from their starting-point. The river being here a little deeper, Desmond
could afford to let the rowers take a much-needed rest, while the boats floated down with the
stream.

But as the day wore on the river again played them false, and progress was at times reduced
to scarcely more than two miles an hour. Things had been uncomfortable in the night, but the
discomforts were increased tenfold in the day. It was the hottest season of the year; out of
the clear sky the sun's rays beat down with pitiless ferocity; the whole landscape was a-quiver
with heat; all things seemed to swoon under the oppression. The petalas, being cargo boats,
were not provided with any accommodation or conveniences for passengers; and Desmond's thoughts
as he lay panting on his mat, haggard from want of sleep, faint from want of food--for though
there was rice on board, and the men ate freely, he had no appetite for that--reverted to the
worst period of his imprisonment in Gheria, and he recalled the sufferings he had endured there.

Here at least he was free. His journey had so far been unmolested, and he hoped that the happy
chance that had favored him at Cossimbazar would not fail him now.

He was in a fever of impatience; yet the men were doing their best. They passed the mud walls
of Cutwa; another stage of the journey was safely completed; but twelve miles lower down there
was a post at Path; and with every mile the danger grew.

Desmond talked over the situation with the Babu. Surendra Nath agreed that by nightfall, if
no unforeseen delay occurred, they might hope to be in the neighborhood of Khulna, and arrive
there before any messenger carrying news of the escape.

But there was little or no chance of the same good fortune at Hugli. The prize was so valuable
that every effort would certainly be made to stop them. A whole day or more might pass before
the reason of Coja Solomon's absence was discovered. But when the discovery was made fast runners
would be sent to Khulna and Hugli, and by relays the distance between Cossimbazar and Hugli
could be covered in twenty-four hours. Supposing such a messenger started at nightfall on June
fifth, nearly twenty-four hours after Coja Solomon's disappearance, he might well get to Hugli
long before the fugitive boats, even if they were rowed all night without cessation; and the
men were already so much fatigued that such continuous exertion could hardly be expected of them.

There was a further danger. If the news of the capture of Cossimbazar Fort had preceded him,
he might be stopped at any of the riverside places without any reference to Coja Solomon's
abduction, pending orders from the Nawab. Desmond's anxiety would have been largely increased
had he known that Sirajuddaula, before his men had actually marched into the fort, had already
started with the bulk of his forces on his fateful march to Calcutta.

Desmond was still in conversation with the Babu when the little flotilla came in sight of Patli.
Its approach was observed. A boat put off from the ghat, and awaited the arrival of Desmond's
boat in midstream. As it came alongside an official ordered the men to cease rowing and demanded
to know who was the owner of the goods on board and to see the dastaks. The Babu, to whom Desmond
had intrusted the papers, showed them to the man; he scanned them, said that he was satisfied,
and rowed back to the ghat.

Evidently he had no suspicions. During the short colloquy Desmond kept close beside the Armenian,
who was well known to the riverside official; but Coja Solomon was thoroughly scared, and had
not the presence of mind to do anything more than to acknowledge the customary salaam.

Desmond  breathed  freely  once  more now that Path was passed. But two-thirds of the journey
still remained to be completed, and he dare not hope that at his slow rate of progress he would
be able always to keep ahead of information from Cossimbazar. Seeing that he could not hasten
his journey, he wondered whether it was possible to put pursuers off the scent. After thinking
for a while he said to the Babu, out of hearing of the Armenian:

"I have an idea, Surendra Nath: tell me what you think of it. Did you not tell me as we came
up that there is a gumashta {agent} of the Company at Santipur?"

"Certainly I did, sir."

"Well, as we are, I fear, sure to be cut off by water, may we not take to the land? Could not
the gumashta get us a dozen hackeris {bullock carts}? We could transfer the goods to them and
elude our pursuers perhaps long enough for help to arrive from Calcutta."

"That is good counsel, sir; why should we not do so?"

Accordingly, when they came to the spot where the high road crossed the river by a ford, Desmond
ordered his men to row in to the left bank. Selecting two men who knew the country, he bade
them land and make the best speed in carrying out instructions which he proceeded to give them.

"You,  Mohun Lal," he said, "will go to Santipur, quickly, avoiding observation, and request
the gumashta in Merriman Sahib's name to have twelve hackeris, or as many as he can collect,
ready to receive loads two or  three  hours  before tomorrow's dawn. He must get them from
the villages, not from Khulna or Amboa, and he must not tell anyone why he requires the carts.

"You, Ishan, will go on to Calcutta, find Merriman Sahib, and ask him to send a body of armed
men along the Barrakpur road towards Santipur. You will tell him what we have done, and also
that Cossimbazar Fort is in the hands of the Nawab, and Watts Sahib a prisoner. He may know
this already. You both understand?"

The men salaamed and started on their journey.

Chapter 22: In which is given a full, true, and particular account of the Battle of the Carts.

Desmond  expected that Mohun Lal would reach Santipur shortly after nightfall. He himself might
hope to arrive there, if not intercepted at Khulna  or  Amboa,  at any time between midnight
and three o'clock, according to the state of the river.

It was approaching dusk when he drew near to Khulna. The boats having been tied up to the bank,
as the custom was, Desmond sent the Babu to find out from the Company's gumashta there whether
news of the capture of Cossimbazar Fort had reached the bazar, and if any runner had come in
from the north. In an hour the Babu returned. He said that there was great excitement in the
bazar: no official messenger had arrived, but everybody was saying that the Nawab had captured
the English factory at Cossimbazar, and was going to drive all the Firangi out of Bengal.

Desmond decided to take a bold course. Official news not having arrived, he might seize the
moment to present his dastaks and get away before the customs officers found any pretext for
stopping him. Everything happened as he hoped. He met with no more difficulty than at Path,
and informing the official who examined the dastaks that he would drop down to Amboa before
tying up for the night, he drew out again into the stream.

He spent some time in consultation with the serang. In a rather desolate reach of the Hugli,
he learned that in the middle of the stream there was a small island, uninhabited save by teal
and other waterfowl, and not known to be the haunt of tigers or other beasts of prey. Reaching
this islet about ten o'clock at night, when all river traffic had ceased, he rowed in, and
landed the Armenian with his crews.

"I thank you for your company, Coja Solomon," he said blandly. 'We must here  part, to my regret,
for I should like to have the pleasure of witnessing your meeting with Mr. Merriman. The nights
are warm, and you will, I am sure, be quite comfortable till the morning, when no doubt a passing
boat will take you off and convey you back to your business at Cossimbazar."

"I will not stay here," protested the Armenian, his face livid with anger.

"Believe me, you have no choice. Let me remind you that had you behaved honestly  there  would
have  been no reason for putting you to the inconvenience of this tiring journey. You have
brought it on yourself."

Coja  Solomon sullenly went up the shore. Desmond then paid the men handsomely:  they  had
indeed worked well, and they were abundantly satisfied with the hire they received.

Leaving Coja Solomon to his bitter reflections, Desmond dropped down to Santipur, arriving
there about two o'clock in the morning. Just before dawn ten hackeris, each yoked with two
oxen, drew up near the Company's ghat. They were accompanied by a crowd of the inhabitants,
lively with curiosity about the engagement of so many vehicles. The gumashta came up with the
first cart, his face clouded with anxiety. He recognized the Babu at once, and said that while
he had fulfilled the order he had received on Mr. Merriman's behalf, he had done it in fear
and trembling. The whole country knew that Cossimbazar Fort was in possession of the Nawab,
and, more than that, the Nawab had on the previous day set out with an immense army for Calcutta.
Santipur was not on the high road, and the Company was respected there; yet the gumashta feared
the people would make an attack on the party if they suspected that they carried goods belonging
to an Englishman.

Hitherto Desmond had kept himself in the background. But now he had an idea inspired by confidence
in his costume. Introducing himself to the gumashta, he asked him to give out that the party
was in command of a Firangi  in the service of the Nawab, and was conveying part of the Nawab's
private equipage in advance to Baraset, a few miles north of Calcutta,  there to await the
arrival of the main army. To make the imposition more effective, he called for the lambadar
of the village and ordered him in the Nawab's name to despatch a flotilla of twenty-five wollacks
{barges} to Cutwa to convey the official baggage.

The trick proved effective. Desmond found himself regarded as a person of importance; the natives
humbly salaamed to him; and, taking matters with a high hand, he impressed a score of the village
idlers into the work of transferring his precious bales from the boats to the hackeris. The
work was accomplished in half an hour.

"Bulger," said Desmond, when the loading was done, "you will consider yourself in charge of
this convoy. The Babu will interpret for you. You will hurry on as fast as possible toward
Calcutta. I shall overtake you by and by. The people here believe that I am a Frenchman, so
you had better pass as that, too, for of course your disguise will deceive no native in the
daylight."

"Well I knows it." said Bulger. "They've been starin' at me like as if I was  a prize pig this
half hour and more, and lookin' most uncommon curious at my little button hook. But, sir, I
don't see any call for me to make out I'm a mounseer. 'T'ud make me uneasy inside, sir, the
very thought of eatin' what the mounseers eat."

"My good man, there's no need to carry it too far. Do as you please, only take care of the goods."

Except Desmond and four men whom he retained, the whole party moved off with the hackeris towards
Calcutta. The road was an unmade track, heavy with dust, rough, execrably bad; and at the gumashta's
suggestion Desmond had arranged for three extra teams of oxen to accompany the carts, to extricate
them  in  case  of  necessity from holes or soft places. Fortunately the weather was dry: had
the rains begun--and they were overdue--the road would have been a slough of mud and ooze,
and the journey would have been impossible.

When  the convoy had set off, Desmond with three men, including the serang, returned to the
empty boats. The lookers-on stared to see the craft  put off and drop down the river with a
crew of one man each: Desmond in the first, and the smaller boat that had contained Bulger
and his party trailing behind. Floating down some four or five miles with the stream, Desmond
gave the order to scuttle the three petalas, and rowed ashore in the smaller boat. On reaching
land he got the serang to knock a hole in the bottom of the boat, and shoved it off towards
midstream, where it rapidly filled and sank.

It was full daylight when Desmond and his party of three struck off inland in a direction that
would bring them upon the track of the carts. He had a presentiment that his difficulties were
only beginning. By this time, no doubt, the news of his escapade had been carried through the
country by the swift kasids of the Nawab. His passing at Khulna and Amboa would  be  reported,
and a watch would be kept for him at Hugli. If perchance a kasid or a chance traveler entered
Santipur, the trick he had practised there would be immediately discovered; but if the messenger
only touched at the places on the direct route on the other bank, he might hope that some time
would elapse before the authorities there suspected that he had left the river. They must soon
learn that three petalas lay wrecked in the stream below Amboa; but they could not satisfy
themselves without examination that these were the vessels of which they were in search.

Tramping across two miles of fields newly sown with maize and sorghum, he at length descried
the trail of his convoy and soon came up with it. If pursuers were indeed upon his track, only
by the greatest good fortune could he escape them. The carts creaked along with painful slowness;
the wheels halfway to the axles in dust; now stopping altogether, now rocking like ships in
a stormy sea.

With his arrival and the promise of liberal bakshish the hackeriwallahs urged the laboring
oxen with their cruel goads till Desmond, always tender with animals, could hardly endure the
sight. By nine o'clock the morning had become stiflingly hot. There was little or no breeze,
and Desmond, unused of late to active exercise, found the heat terribly trying. But Bulger
suffered still more. A stout, florid man, he toiled along, panting, streaming with sweat, in
difficulties so manifest, that Desmond, eying him anxiously, feared lest a stroke of apoplexy
should bring him to an untimely end.

The country was so flat that a string of carts could not fail to be seen from a long distance.
If noticed from the towers of Hugli across the river, curiosity, if not suspicion, would be
aroused, and it would not take long to send over by a ford a force sufficient to arrest and
capture the party. To escape observation it was necessary to make wide detours. At several
small hamlets on the route Desmond managed to get fresh oxen, but not enough for complete changes
of team.

So, through all the broiling heat of the day, at hours when no other Europeans in all Bengal
were out of doors, the convoy struggled on, making its own road, crossing the dry beds of pools,
skirting or laboring over rugged nullahs.

At nightfall Desmond learned from one of the drivers that they were still six miles short of
being opposite to Hugli. The patient Bengalis could endure no more; the oxen were done up,
the men refused to go farther without a rest. Halting at a hamlet some five miles from the
river, they rested  and  fed  till  midnight, then set off again. It was not so insufferably
hot at night, but on the other hand they were less able to avoid obstructions: and the rest
had not been long enough to make up for the terrible exertions of the day.

By daybreak they were some distance past Hugli, still keeping about five miles from the river.
Desmond was beginning to congratulate himself that the worst was over; Barrackpur was only
about twelve miles away. But a little after dawn he caught sight of a European on horseback
crossing their track towards the river. He was going at a walking pace, attended by two syces
{grooms}. Attracted, apparently, by the sight, unusual at this time of year, of a string of
hackeris, he wheeled his horse and cantered towards the tail of the convoy, which was under
Bulger's charge.

"Hai, hackeriwallah," he said in Urdu to the rearmost driver, "to whom do these hackeris belong?"

"To the great Company, huzur. The sahib will tell you."

"The sahib--what sahib?" asked the rider in astonishment.

"The sahib yonder," replied the man, pointing to Bulger.

Bulger had been staring at the horseman, and growing more and more red in the face. Catching
the rider's surprised look, he could contain himself no longer.

"By thunder! 'tis that villain Diggle!" he shouted, and rushed forward to drag him from his horse.

But Diggle was not taken unawares. Setting spurs to his steed, he caused it to spring away.
Bulger raised his musket, but ere he could fire Diggle was out of range. Keeping a careful
distance he rode leisurely along the whole convoy, and a smile of malignant pleasure shone
upon his face as he took stock of its contents.

Meanwhile Bulger, already repenting of his hasty action, hurried forward to acquaint Desmond
with what had happened. Diggle's smile broadened; he halted and took a long look at the tall
figure in native dress to whom Bulger  was  so  excitedly speaking. Then, turning his horse
in the direction of the river, he spoke over his shoulder to his syces and galloped away, followed
by them at a run.

"You were a fool, Bulger," said Desmond testily. "This may lead to no end of trouble."

Bulger looked penitent, and wrathful, and overwhelmed.

"We must try to hurry," added Desmond to Surendra Nath. "Promise the men more bakshish: don't
stint."

For two hours longer they pushed on with all the speed of which the jaded beasts were capable.
Every now and again Desmond looked anxiously back, hoping against hope that they would not
be pursued. But he knew that Diggle had recognized him, and being prepared for the worst, he
began to rack his brains for some means of defense.

Misfortune seemed to dog him. Two of the oxen collapsed. It was necessary to distribute the
loads of their hackeris among the others. The march was delayed, and when the convoy was again
under way, its progress was slower than ever.

It had, indeed, barely started, when in the distance Desmond spied a horseman cantering towards
them. A few minutes revealed him as Diggle. He rode up almost within musket shot, then turned
and trotted back.

What was the meaning of his action? Desmond, from his position near the foremost hackeri, could
see nothing more. But, a few yards ahead of him, to the right of the track, there was a low
artificial mound, possibly the site of an ancient temple, standing at the edge of a nullah,
its top some ten or twelve feet above the surrounding plain. Hastening to this he gained the
summit, and, looking back, saw a numerous body of men on foot advancing rapidly from the direction
in which the horseman had come. In twenty minutes they would have come up with the convoy.
He must turn at bay.

He  glanced anxiously around. He was in the midst of an almost bare sun-baked plain, the new-sown
fields awaiting the rains to spring into verdure. Here and there were clumps of trees--the
towering palmyra with its  fan-shaped foliage, the bamboo with its feathery branches, the plantain,
throwing its immense leaves of vivid green into every fantastic form. There was no safety on
the plain.

But below him was the nullah, thirty feet deep, eighty yards wide, soon to be a swollen torrent
dashing towards the Hugli, but now dry. Its sides were in parts steep, and unscalable in face
of determined resistance. In a moment Desmond saw the utmost of possibility.

Running back to the convoy, he turned its head towards the mound, and, calling every man to
the help of the oxen, he dragged the carts one by one to the top. There he caused the beasts
to be unyoked, and placed the hackeris, their poles interlocked, so as to form a rough semicircular
breastwork around the summit of the mound. For a moment he hesitated in deciding what to do
with the cattle. Should he keep them within his little intrenchment? If they took fright they
might stampede and do mischief; in any case they would be in the way, and he resolved to send
them all off under charge of such of the drivers as were too timid to remain. He noticed that
the Babu was quivering with alarm.

"Surendra Nath," he said, "this is no place for you. Slip away quietly; go towards Calcutta;
and if you meet Mr. Merriman coming in response to my message, tell him the plight we are in
and ask him to hasten to our help."

"I do not like to show the white feather, sir," said the Babu.

"Not at all, Babu, we must have a trustworthy messenger: you are the man. Now get away as fast
as you can."

The Babu departed on his errand with the speed of gladness and relief.

The ground sloped sharply outward from the carts, and the rear of the position was formed by
the nullah. The last two hackeris were being placed in position when the vanguard of the pursuers,
with Diggle at their head, came to a point just out of range. The party was larger than Desmond
had estimated it to be at his first hasty glance. There were some twenty men armed with matchlocks,
and forty with swords and lathis. All were natives.

His heart sank as he measured the odds against him. What was his dismay when he saw, half a
mile off, another body following up. And these were white men! Was Diggle bringing the French
of Chandernagore into the fray?

Desmond posted his twelve armed peons behind the hackeris. He gave them strict  orders to fire
only at the word of command, and as they had undergone some discipline in Calcutta he hoped
that, if only in self preservation, they would maintain a certain steadiness. Behind them he
placed twelve sturdy boatmen armed with half pikes, instructing them to take the place of the
peons when they had fired. Bulger stood at the midpoint of the semicircle; his rough square
face was a deep purple with a  rim  of  black; his dhoti had become loosened, leaving his great
shoulders and brawny chest bare; his turban was awry; his eyes, bloodshot with the heat, were
as the eyes of Mars himself, burning with the fire of battle.

The pursuers had halted. Diggle came forward, trotting his horse up to the base of the mound.
The peons fingered their matchlocks and looked expectant; Bulger growled; but Desmond gazed
calmly at his enemy.

"Your disguise is excellent," said Diggle in his smoothest tones; "but I believe I speak to
Mr. Desmond Burke."

"Yes, Mr. Diggle," said Desmond, stepping forward.

"I am glad to have overtaken you. Sure you have encamped early. I have a message  from  my
friend  the  Faujdar of Hugli. By some mistake a consignment of merchandise has been illegally
removed from Cossimbazar, and the Faujdar, understanding that the goods are contained in these
carts, bids me ask you to deliver them up to his men, whom you see here with me."

Desmond was anxious to gain time. He thought out his plan of action while Diggle was speaking.
His impulsiveness prompted a flat defiance in few words; policy counseled a formality of utterance
equal to Diggle's.

"These carts certainly contain merchandise, Mr. Diggle," he said. "It is the property of Mr.
Edward Merriman, of Calcutta; I think you know him? It was removed from Cossimbazar; but not,
I assure you, illegally. I have the dastaks authorizing its removal to Calcutta; they are signed
by the Faujdar of Murshidabad. Has the Faujdar of--where did you say?"

"Of Hugli."

"Has the Faujdar of Hugli power to countermand what the Faujdar of the capital has done?"

"Why discuss that point?" said Diggle with a smile. "The Faujdar of Hugli is an officer of
the Nawab; hoc sat est tibi--blunt language, but the phrase is Tully's."

"Well, I waive that. But I am not satisfied that you, an Englishman, have authority to act
for the Faujdar of Hugli. The crowd I see before me--a rabble of lathiwallahs--clearly cannot
be the Faujdar's men."

At this point he heard an exclamation from Bulger. The second body of men had come up and ranked
themselves behind the first.

"And  may I ask," added Desmond, with a slight gesture to Bulger to restrain himself--he too
had recognized the newcomers--"since when the Nawab has taken into his service the crew of
an interloping English merchantman?"

"I shall give you full information, Mr. Burke," said Diggle suavely, "when we stand together
before my friend the Faujdar. In the meantime you will, if I may venture to advise, consult
your interest best in yielding to superior numbers and delivering up the goods."

"And what about myself, Mr. Diggle?"

"You, of course, will accompany me to the Faujdar. He will be incensed, I make no doubt, at
your temerity, and not unjustly; but I will intercede for you, and you will be treated with
the most delicate attentions."

"You speak fair, Mr. Diggle," said Desmond, still bent upon gaining time; "but that is your
way. What assurance have I that you will, this time, keep your word?"

"You persist in misjudging me," said Diggle regretfully. "As Cicero says in the play, you construe
things after your fashion, clean from the purpose of the things themselves. My interest in
you is undiminished; nay rather, it is increased and mixed with admiration. My offers still
hold good: join hands with me, and I promise you that you shall soon be a persona grata at
the court of Murshidabad, with wealth and honors in your grasp."

"Your offer is tempting, Mr. Diggle, to a poor adventurer like me, and if only my own interests
were involved, I might strike a bargain with you. I have had such excellent reasons to trust
you in the past! But the goods are not mine; they are Mr. Merriman's; and the utmost I can
do at present is to ask you to draw your men off and wait while I send a messenger to Calcutta.
When he returns with Mr. Merriman's consent to the delivery of the goods, then--"

The sentence remained unfinished. Diggle's expression had been becoming blacker and blacker
as Desmond spoke, and seeing with fury that he was being played with he suddenly wheeled round,
and, cantering back to his men, gave the order to fire. At the same moment Desmond called to
his men to lie flat on the ground and aim at the enemy from behind the solid wooden wheels
of the hackeris. Being on the flat top of the mound, they were to some extent below the line
of fire from the plain, and when the first  volley was delivered no harm was done to them save
for a few scratches made by flying splinters struck from the carts.

But the crack of the matchlocks struck terror into the pale hearts of some  of the hackeriwallahs.
Several sprang over the breastwork and scuttled away like scared rabbits. The remainder stood
firm, grasping their lathis in a manner that showed the fighting instinct to be strong, even
in the Bengali.

Many anxious looks were bent upon Desmond, his men expecting the order to fire. But he bade
them remain still, and through the interval between two carts he watched for the rush that
was coming. The crew of the Good Intent, headed by Sunman, the cross-eyed mate, and Parmiter,
had come up behind the natives. These, having emptied their matchlocks, were now retiring to
reload. Diggle had dismounted, and was talking earnestly with the mate. They walked together
to the edge of the nullah, and looked up and down it, doubtless canvassing the chances of an
attack in the rear; but the sides were steep; there was no hope of success in this direction;
and they rejoined the main body.

Evidently they had decided on making a vigorous direct attack over the carts. Dividing his
troop into two portions, Diggle put himself at the head  of  the  one,  Sunman at the head
of the other. Arranged in a semicircle concentric with the breastwork, at the word of command
all the men with firearms discharged their pieces; then, with shrill cries from the natives,
and a hoarse cheer from the crew of the Good Intent, they charged in a close line up the slope.

Behind the barricade the men's impatience had only been curbed by the quiet  imperturbable
manner  of their young leader. But their self restraint was on the point of breaking down when,
short, sharp and clear, the long-awaited command was given. Their matchlocks flashed; the volley
told with deadly effect at the short range of thirty paces; four or five men dropped; as many
more staggered down the slope; the rest halted indecisively, in doubt whether to push forward
or turn tail.

"Blockheads! cowards!" shouted Diggle in a fury. "Push on, you dogs; we are four to one!"

He  was  now a very different Diggle from the man Desmond had known hitherto. His smile was
gone; all languor and indolence was lost; his eyes flashed, his lips met in a hard cruel line;
his voice rang out strong and metallic. That he was no coward Desmond already knew. He put
himself in the forefront of the line, and, as always happens, a brave leader never lacks followers.

The whole of the seamen and many of the Bengalis surged forward after him. Behind the breastwork
all the men were now mixed up--musketeers with pikemen  and lathiwallahs. Upon these came the
swarming enemy, some clambering over the carts, others wriggling between the wheels. There
was a babel of cries; the exultant bellow of the born fighter, British or native; a few pistol
shots; the scream of the men mortally hit; the "Wah! wah!" of the Bengalis applauding their
own prowess.

As Diggle had said, the odds were four to one. But the defenders had the advantage of position,
and for a few moments they held the yelling mob at bay.  The  half pikes of the boatmen were
terrible weapons at close quarters, more formidable than the cutlasses of the seamen balked
by the breastwork, or the loaded bamboo clubs of the lathiwallahs.

Sunman, the mate, was one of the first victims; he fell to a shot from Bulger. But Parmiter
and Diggle, followed by half a dozen of the sailors, and a score of the more determined lathiwallahs
and musketeers with clubbed muskets, succeeded in clambering to the top of the carts and prepared
to jump down among the defenders, most of whom were busily engaged in jabbing at the men swarming
in between the wheels. Desmond saw that if his barricade was once broken through the issue
of the fight must be decided by mere weight of numbers.

"Bulger, here!" he cried, "and you, Hossain."

The men sprang to him, and, following his example, leaped on to the cart next to that occupied
by Diggle and Parmiter. Desmond's intention was to take them in flank. Jumping over the bales
of silk, he swung over his head a matchlock he had seized from one of his peons, and brought
it down with  a  horizontal  sweep.  Two of the Bengalis among the crowd of lathiwallahs, who
were hanging back out of reach of the boatmen's pikes, were swept off the cart. But the violence
of his blow disturbed Desmond's own balance; he fell on one knee; his matchlock was seized
and jerked out of his hand; and in a second three men were upon him. Bulger and the serang,
although a little late, owing to want of agility in scaling the cart, were close behind.

"Belay there!" roared Bulger, as he flung himself upon the combatants.

The bullet head of one sturdy badmash cracked like an eggshell under the butt of the bold tar's
musket; a second received the terrible hook square in the teeth; and a third, no other than
Parmiter himself, was caught round the neck at the next lunge of the hook, and flung, with
a mighty heave, full into the midst of the defenders. Bulger drew a long breath.

At the same moment Diggle, attacked by the serang, was thrown from his perch on the hackeri
and fell among his followers outside the barricade. There was a moment's lull while both parties
recovered their wind. Firing had  ceased;  to load a matchlock was a long affair, and though
the attackers might have divided and come forward in relays with loaded weapons, they would
have run the risk of hitting their own friends.

It was to be again a hand-to-hand fight. Diggle was not to be denied. Desmond, who had jumped
down inside the barricade when the pressure was relieved by Bulger, could not but admire the
spirit and determination of his old enemy, though it boded ill for his own chance of escape.
He was weary;  worn out by want of rest and food; almost prostrated by the terrible heat. Looking
round his little fort, he felt a tremor as he saw that five out of his twenty-four men were
more or less disabled. True, there were now more than a dozen of the enemy in the same or a
worse plight; but they could afford their losses, and Desmond indeed wondered why  Diggle 
did not sacrifice a few men in one fierce overwhelming onslaught.

"A hundred rupees to the man who kills the young sahib, two hundred to the man who takes him
alive!" cried Diggle to his dusky followers, as though in answer to Desmond's thought.

Then, turning to the discomfited crew of the Good intent, he said: "Sure, my men, you will
not be beaten by a boy and a one-armed man. There's a fortune for all of you in those carts.
At them again, my men; I'll show you the way."

He was as good as his word. He snatched a long lathi from one of the Bengalis and rushed up
the slope to the hackeri nearest the nullah. Finding a purchase for one end of his club in
the woodwork of the wagon, he put forth all his strength in the effort to push it over the
edge. Owing to the length of the lathi he was out of reach of the half pikes in the hands of
the boatmen, who had to lunge either over or under the carts.

His unaided strength would have been unequal to the task of moving the hackeri, heavily laden
as it was, resting on soft soil, and interlocked with the next. But as soon as his followers
saw the aim of his movements, and especially when they found that the defenders could not touch
him without exposing themselves, he gained as many eager helpers as could bring their lathis
to bear upon the two carts.

Meanwhile the defense at this spot was weak, for the men of the Good Intent had swarmed up
to the adjoining carts and were threatening at any moment to force a way over the barricade.
They were more formidable enemies than the Bengalis.

Slowly the two hackeris began to move, till the wheels of one hung over the  edge of the nullah.
One more united heave, and it rolled over, dragging the other cart with it and splitting itself
into a hundred fragments  on  the rocky bottom. Through the gap thus formed in the barricade
sprang Diggle, with half a dozen men of the Good Intent and a score of Bengalis.

Desmond  gathered  his little band into a knot in the center of the inclosure. Then the brazen
sun looked down upon a Homeric struggle. Bulger, brawny warrior of the iron hook, swung his
musket like a flail, every now and again shooting forth his more sinister weapon with terrible
effect. Desmond, slim and athletic, dashed in upon the enemy with his half pike as they recoiled
before Bulger's whirling musket. The rest, now a bare dozen, Bengalis though they were, presented
still an undaunted front to the swarm that surged into the narrow space. The hot air grew hotter
with the fight.

To avoid being surrounded, the little band instinctively backed towards the edge of the nullah.
Diggle exulted as they were pressed remorselessly to the rear. Not a man dreamed of surrender;
the temper of the assailants was indeed so savage that nothing but the annihilation of their
victims would now satisfy them. Yet Diggle once again bethought himself that Desmond might
be worth to him more alive than dead, and in the midst of the clamor Desmond heard him repeat
his offer of reward to the man who should capture him.

Diggle himself resolved to make the attempt. Venturing too near, he received an ugly gash from
Desmond's pike, promising a permanent mark from brow to chin. This was too much for him. Beside
himself with fury, he yelled a command to his men to sweep the pigs over the brink, and, one
side of his face livid with rage, the other streaming with blood, he dashed forward at Bulger,
who had come up panting to engage him.

He had well timed his rush, for Bulger's musket was at the far end of its pendulum  swing,
but the old seaman saw his danger in time. With a movement of extraordinary agility in a man
of his bulk, he swung on his heel, presenting his side to the rapier that flashed in Diggle's
hand. Parrying the thrust with his hook, he shortened his stump and lunged at Diggle below
the belt. His enemy collapsed as if shot; but his followers swept forward over his prostrate
body, and it seemed as if, in one brief half minute, the knot of defenders would be hurled
to the bottom of the nullah.

But, at this critical moment, assailants and defenders were stricken into quietude  by  a 
tumultuous cheer, the cheer of Europeans, from the direction of the gap in the barricade. Weapons
remained poised in mid air; every man stood motionless, wondering whether the interruption
came from friend or foe. The question was answered on the instant.

"Now, men, have at them!"

With a thrill Desmond recognized the voice. It was the voice of Silas Toley. There was nothing
of melancholy in it, nor in the expression of the New Englander as he sprang, cutlass in hand,
through the gap. Slow to take fire, when Toley's anger was kindled it blazed with a devouring
flame. The crowd of assailants dissolved as if by magic. Before the last of the crew of the
Hormuzzeer, lascars and Europeans, had passed into the inclosure, the men of the Good Intent
and their Bengali allies were streaming over and under the carts toward the open.

Diggle at the first shock had staggered to his feet and stumbled toward the barricade. As he
reached it, a black boy, springing as it were out of the earth, hastened to him and helped
him to crawl between the wheels of a cart and down the slope. On the boy's arm he limped toward
his horse, tethered to a tree. A wounded wretch was clumsily attempting to mount. Him Diggle
felled; then he crawled painfully into the saddle and galloped away, Scipio Africanus leaping
up behind.

By this time his followers were dispersing in all directions--all but eight luckless men who
would never more wield cutlass or lathi, and a dozen who lay on one side or other of the barricade,
too hard hit to move.

Diggle's escape passed unnoticed until it was too late to pursue him. At the sight of Toley
and his messmates of the Hormuzzeer, Bulger had let fall his musket and dropped to the ground,
where he sat mopping his face and crying, "Go it, mateys!" Desmond felt a strange faintness,
and leaned dizzily against one of the hackeris. But, revived by a draft from Mr. Toley's flask,
he thanked the mate warmly, and wanted to hear how he had contrived to come up in time.

When Desmond's messenger arrived in Calcutta, Mr. Merriman was away up the river, engaged in
very serious business. The messenger had applied to the governor, to members of the Council,
to Captain Minchin and other officers,  and the reply of one and all was the same: they could
do nothing; it was more important that every man should be employed in strengthening the defenses
of Calcutta than in going upcountry on what might prove a vain and useless errand. But Toley
happened to be in the town, and learning of the difficulties and perils of his friend Burke,
with the captain's consent he had hastily collected the crew of the Hormuzzeer, that still
lay off the fort, and led them, under the guidance of the messenger, to support him. Meeting
Surendra Nath, and learning from him that a fight was imminent, he had pushed on with all speed,
the Babu leading the way.

"It was well done," said Desmond warmly. "We owe our lives to you, and Mr. Merriman his goods.
But what was the business that took Mr. Merriman from Calcutta at this time of trouble?"

"Trouble of his own, Burke," said Mr. Toley. "I guess he'd better have let the Nawab keep his
goods and sent you to look after his womenfolk."

"What do you mean? I left the ladies at Khulna; what has happened to them?"

"'Tis what Mr. Merriman would fain know. They've disappeared, gone clean out of sight."

"But the peons?"

"Gone, too. Nothing heard or seen of them."

This serious news came as a shock to Desmond. If he had only known! How willingly he would
have let Coja Solomon do what he pleased with the goods, and hastened to the help of the wife
and daughter Mr. Merriman held so dear! While in Cossimbazar, he had heard from Mr. Watts terrible
stories of the Nawab's villainy, which no respect of persons held in check. He feared that
if Mrs. Merriman and Phyllis had indeed fallen into Sirajuddaula's hands, they were lost to
their family and friends forever.

But, eager as he was to get back to Calcutta and join Mr. Merriman in searching for them, he
had a strange certainty that it was not to be. The faintness that he had already felt returned.
His head was burning and throbbing; his ears buzzed; his limbs ached; his whole frame was seized
at moments with paroxysms of shivering which no effort could control. Unknown to himself the
seeds of malarial fever had found a lodgment in his system. While listening to Toley's story,
he had reclined on the ground. When he tried to rise, he was overcome by giddiness and nausea.

"I am done up," he continued. "Mr. Toley, you must take charge and get these goods conveyed
to Calcutta. Lose no time."

Surendra Nath recognized the symptoms of the disease, and immediately had a litter improvised
for Desmond out of the linen covering of one of the carts and a couple of muskets. Mr. Toley
at once made preparations for moving on with the convoy. The hackeriwallahs who had driven
off the cattle had not gone far; they had waited in the hope of getting the bakshish promised
them--if not from the young sahib, at least from the leader of the attacking party, which from
its numbers they believed would gain the day.

The oxen were soon yoked up. Mr. Toley would not wait to recover the loads of the carts that
had toppled into the nullah, nor would he leave men for that purpose, lest another attack should
be made on them from Hugli. He set off as soon as the teams were ready. Half an hour after
they started, Bulger, walking beside the litter, saw to his dismay that Desmond had lost consciousness.

It was nearly a fortnight later when Desmond came to himself in his old bunk on board the Hormuzzeer.
He was alone. Lying on his back, feebly trying to adjust his thoughts to his surroundings,
he heard the faint boom of guns. What was happening? He tried to rise, but all power was gone
from him; he could hardly lift an arm. Even the slight effort was too much for him, and he
swooned again.

When he once more recovered consciousness, he saw a figure by his side. It was Mr. Toley. Again
the distant thunder of artillery fell upon his ears.

"What is happening?" he asked feebly.

"Almighty be praised!" said Toley fervently, "you're coming safe to port. Hush! Lie you still.
You'll want nussin' like a babby. Never you heed the popguns; I'll tell you all about them
when you're stronger. Food, sleep, and air; that's my catechism, larned from the surgeon. Bless
you, Burke, I feared you was a done man."

With this Desmond had to be for the time content. But every day he heard firing, and every
day, as he slowly regained strength, he became more and more anxious to know what it meant.
Toley seemed to have left the ship; Desmond was tended only by natives.

From them he learned that the Nawab was attacking Calcutta. How were the defenders  faring?
They  could not tell. He knew how small was the garrison,  how  weak the fortifications; but,
with an English lad's unconquerable faith in his countrymen's valor, he could not believe that
they could fail to hold their own.

One day, however, he heard no more firing. In the afternoon Mr. Toley came to his bunk, bringing
with him Mr. Merriman himself. The merchant had his head bound up, and wore his left arm in
a sling. He was pale, haggard, the shadow of his former self.

"What has happened, sir?" cried Desmond the instant he saw him. "Are the ladies safe?"

"God pity us, Desmond! I shall never see them again. My poor Dora! my sweet Phyllis! They are
lost! All is lost! The Nawab has taken the fort. We are beaten, shamed, ruined!"

"How did it happen? I heard the firing. Tell me; it can not be so bad as that. Sure something
can be done!"

"Nothing, nothing; we did all we could. 'Twas little; would that Drake had  heeded our advice!
But I am rejoiced to see you on the road to recovery, dear boy; 'twould have been another nail
in my coffin to know that you had lost your life in doing a service for me. I thank God for
that, from the bottom of my heart."

He pressed Desmond's hand affectionately.

"But tell me, sir; I want to know what has happened. How came you to be wounded? Sure I am
strong enough to hear now; it will do me no harm."

"It cuts me to the heart, Desmond, but you shall know. I was absent when you were carried to
my house--searching for my dear ones. But Dr. Gray tended you; alas! the good man is now a
prisoner. I returned three days after, driven back from up the river by the advance of the
Nawab's army. I was worn out, distraught; not a trace had I found of my dear wife; she had
vanished; nor of my daughter; nor even of my peons; all had gone.

"And there was trouble enough in Calcutta for me and for all. 'Twas the very day I returned
that the news came of Sirajuddaula's approach. And a letter from his chief spy was intercepted,
addressed to Omichand, bidding him escape while there was yet time and join the Subah. That
seemed to Mr. Drake clear proof that Omichand was in league with our enemies, and he had him
arrested and thrown into the fort prison. But Mr. Drake never acts till 'tis too late. He gave
orders next to arrest Krishna Das. The man  barricaded  himself  in his house and beat our
peons off, till Lieutenant Blagg and thirty Europeans drove in his gates. They found a vast
quantity of arms collected there. They stormed Omichand's house also, where three hundred armed
domestics made a stout fight against 'em. When our men got in--'tis a horrid story--the head
jamadar with his own hands stabbed all his master's women and children, to prevent em falling
into our hands, and then set fire to the place.

"Our men had already been driven out of Tanna fort by Manik Chand, who had come up with two
thousand men and a couple of field pieces. Then came up Mir Jafar, the Nawab's bakshi {commander
in chief}, and began firing from the Chitpur gate. We got all our women into the fort; the
poor creatures left all they had but their clothes and their bedding. You may guess the confusion.
The natives were flocking out of the town; most of our servants fled with them; all our cooks
were gone, so that though we had a great stock of food we were like to starve in the midst
of plenty.

"But we filled their places with some of the Portuguese who came crowding into the fort. Two
thousand of 'em, men, women, and children, filled the courtyard, sitting among their bundles
of goods, so that we could scarce move for 'em. The enemy was in the town; they had set light
to the Great Bazaar, and were burning and plundering in the native parts. We fired the bastis
to the east and south, to deprive 'em of cover; and you may imagine the scene, Desmond--the
blazing sky, the tears and screams of the women, the din of guns. We wrote to the French at
Chandernagore begging 'em to lend us some ammunition, for the most of ours was useless; but
they sent us a genteel reply saying they'd no more than sufficient for their own needs; yet
the wretches made the Nawab a present of two hundred chests of powder, 'tis said.

"Next day we were besieged in earnest. The Nawab had, we learned, nigh fifty thousand men,
with one hundred and fifty elephants and camels, and two hundred and fifty Frenchmen working
his artillery. Against 'em we had about five hundred in all, only half of 'em Europeans. What
could so few do against so many? Our officers were all brave enough, but they've had a slack
time, and few of 'em are fit for the work. Ensign Picard, sure, did wonders, and Lieutenant
Smyth defended the north battery with exceeding skill; but we had not men enough to hold our
positions, and step by step we were driven back.

"'Twas clear we could not hold out long, and on Friday night we held a council of war, and
decided to send the women on board the ships in the river, to get 'em out of harm's way. Then
by heaven! Desmond, two of the Council shamed 'emselves for ever. Mr. Manningham and Mr. Frankland,
special friends of Mr. Drake, attended the ladies to the ship--'twas the Dodalay, of which
they are owners--and they stayed on board with 'em--the cowards, to set such an infamous example!
And well 'twas followed. 'Tis scarce credible, but Captain Minchin, our gallant commander,
and Mr. Drake, our noble president, went down to the ghat and had 'emselves rowed off to the
shipping and deserted us: good God! do they deserve the name of Englishmen? One of our gentlemen
standing on the steps was so enraged that he sent a bullet after the cravens; others did the
same, and I would to heaven that one of their shots had took effect on the wretches! We made
Mr. Holwell governor in the Quaker's place; and I tell you, Desmond, had we done so before,
there would have been a different story to tell this day.

"Mr. Holwell saw 'twas impossible to withstand the Nawab's hordes much longer, and spoke for
an orderly retreat; but he was overrid by some of the military officers; and besides, retreat
was cut off, for the ships that had lain in the river moved away, and though we hung out signals
from the fort asking 'em to come back and take us off, they paid no heed; nay, they stood farther
off, leaving us to our fate. What could we do? Mr. Holwell sent to Omichand in his prison and
offered to release him if he would treat with the Nawab for us. But the Gentoo refused. All
he would do was to write a letter to Manik Chand asking him to intercede for us. Mr. Holwell
threw the letter over the wall among the enemy, and by heaven! Desmond, never did I suppose
Englishmen would be reduced to such a point of humiliation.

"But 'twas of no effect. The enemy came on with the more determination, and brought bamboos
to scale the walls. We drove 'em off again, but with frightful loss; twenty-five of our bravest
men were killed outright and sixty wounded. 'Twas there I got my wounds, and 'twould have been
all over with me but for that fine fellow Bulger; he turned aside with his hook a slashing
blow from a scimitar and gave my assailant his quietus. Bulger fought like a hero, and the
very look of him, black with powder and stained with blood, seemed to drive all the fight out
of the Moors that came his way.

"All this time the shots of the Nawab's cannon annoyed us, not to much harm, for they were
most villainously served; their fire arrows did us more mischief, flying into the thick of
the crowds of screaming women and children. It made my heart sick to think of the poor innocent
people suffering through the weakness and incompetence and the guilty neglect of our Council.
The heat and the glare, the want of food, the uproar and commotion--may I never see or hear
the like again!

"Yesterday there was a lull in the fighting about midday. The enemy were still outside the
fort, though they had possession of all the houses around. They showed a flag of truce, whereupon
Mr. Holwell writ a letter asking 'em for terms. But 'twas a trick to deceive us. While we were
resting, waiting the result of the parley, the Moors poured out of their hiding places and
swarmed upon the eastern gate of the fort and the pallisadoes on the southwest. In the interval
many of our common men had fallen asleep; some, alas! were drunk, so that we had no force to
resist the invaders, who scaled the roof of the godowns on the north wall with the aid of their
bamboos and swept over into the fort.

"Most of us Europeans who were left collected in the veranda in front of the barracks--you
know, between the great gate and the southeast bastion. Scarce a man of us but was wounded.
There we were unmolested, for the enemy, as soon as they burst into our private rooms, made
busy with their spoil; and, as it appeared, the Nawab had given orders that we were to be spared.

"At five o'clock he came into the fort in a gay litter and held a durbar in our Council room,
Mir Jafar salaaming before him and making fulsome compliments on his great victory. Then the
wretch sent for Mr. Holwell. We bade him farewell; sure we thought we should never see him
more. But he returned to us presently, and told us the Nawab was vastly enraged at the smallness
of the treasure he had found; the stories of the French had led him to expect untold wealth.
Omichand and Krishna Das had been took out of prison, and treated with great affability, and
presented by the Nawab with siropas--robes of honor, a precious token of his favor. But the
Nawab. Mr. Holwell told us, had promised no harm should befall us. A guard of five hundred
gunmen was set over us with matches lighted, and the sun being now nigh setting, men came with
torches, though sure they were not needed, a great part of the factory being in flames, so
that indeed we feared we should be suffocated. But we were shortly afterwards told to go into
the barracks, nigh the veranda where we stood.

"Then it was that I, by the mercy of God, was enabled to escape. I was at the end of the veranda,
farthest from the barracks. Just as I was about to move off after the rest, one of the guards
came in front of me, and whispered me to hide behind the last of the thick pillars till he
came for me. I recognized the man: 'twas an old peon of mine. Thank God for a faithful servant!
More dead than alive I did what he said. For hours I lay there, fearing I know not what, not
daring to stir lest some eye should see me, and suffering agonies from my untended wounds.
At last the man came to me.

"'Sahib,'  he  said,  'you were good to me. I shall save you. Come, quickly.'

"I got up and stumbled after him. He led me by dark ways out of the fort, past the new godown,
across the burying ground, down to Chandpal ghat. There I found Mr. Toley awaiting me with
a boat, and 'tis thanks to my old peon and him I now find myself safe."

"And do you know what became of Bulger?" asked Desmond.

"He is with the rest, sorely battered, poor man."

"What will happen to the prisoners? How many are there?"

"There are nigh a hundred and fifty. The Nawab has promised they shall suffer no harm, and
after a night in barracks I suppose he will let 'em go. We shall drop down the river till we
reach the other vessels at Surman's, and then, by heaven! I shall see what I can do to bring
Mr. Drake to a sense of his duty, and persuade him to come back and take off the Europeans.

"Sure  this action of Sirajuddaula's will not go unavenged. We have already sent letters to
Madras, and within two months, I hope, succor will reach us from thence, and we shall chastise
this insolent young Nawab."

"Do you think he will keep his word?--I mean, to do the prisoners no harm."

"I think so. He has done no harm to Mr. Watts, whom he brought with him from Cossimbazar; and
our people will be more valuable to him alive than dead. Yes; by this time tomorrow I trust
Mr. Holwell and the others will be  safe on board the ships, and I do not envy Mr. Drake his
bitter experience when the men he has deserted confront him."

While Mr. Merriman was telling his story, the Hormuzzeer was slowly drifting down the river.
At Surman's garden, about five miles south of Calcutta, it joined the other vessels belonging
to British owners, and dropped anchor. Several gentlemen came on board, eager to learn what
had been the last scene in the tragic drama. Mr. Merriman told them all he knew, and every
one drew a long breath of relief when they learned that though prisoners, Mr. Holwell and the
gallant few who had stuck to their posts had been assured of good treatment. During the day
the vessel dropped still lower down the river to Budge Budge, running the gauntlet of a brisk
but ineffective fire from Tanna Fort, now in the hands of the Nawab's troops.

When the Hormuzzeer lay at anchor at Budge Budge, Mr. Merriman explained to Desmond the plans
he had formed for him. The vessel now had her full cargo, and would sail immediately for Penang.
Mr. Merriman proposed that Desmond should make the voyage. In his weak state the climate of
Fulta, where the Europeans intended to stay until help reached them from Madras, might prove
fatal to him; while the sea air would complete his cure.

His share of the sale price of the Tremukji, together with the Gheria prize money, amounted
to more than a thousand pounds, and this had been invested for him by his friend.

"For myself," added Merriman, "I shall remain. My wounds are not severe; I am accustomed to
the climate; and though India is now odious to me, I shall not leave Indian soil until I find
traces of my dear wife and daughter. God grant that by the time you return I shall have some
news of them."

Desmond would have liked to remain with the merchant, but he knew that in his  weakness  he
could do him no service, and he acquiesced in the arrangement.

That same evening the fugitives received news that made their blood run cold. Two Englishmen,
Messrs. Cooke and Lushington, who had remained staunchly by Mr. Holwell's side, came from the
shore in a small boat and boarded the Dodalay. Their appearance struck every one with amazement
and horror. Mr. Cooke was a merchant, aged thirty-one; Mr. Lushington a writer in the Company's
service, his age eighteen; but the events of one night had altered them almost beyond recognition.
They said that when the order had been given to confine them in the barracks, the prisoners
had all expected to pass the night in comparative comfort. What was their amazement when they
were escorted to the Black Hole, a little chamber no more than eighteen feet square, which
was only used as a rule for the confinement of one or two unruly prisoners. In vain they protested;
their brutal guards forced them, a hundred and forty-six in number, into the narrow space,
and locked the door upon them. It was one of the hottest nights of the year; there was but
one small opening in the wall, and before long the want of air and the intense heat drove the
poor people to fury. They trampled each other down in their mad attempts to get near the opening
for air and the water which one of their jailers, less brutal than the rest, handed in to them.

The  horror  of  the  scenes that passed in that small room baffles description. Men and women
in the agonies of thirst and suffocation fought like tigers. Many prayed their guards to shoot
them and end their sufferings, only to meet with jeers and laughter. Some of the native officers
took pity on them and would have opened the door, but none durst move without the Nawab's permission,
or brave his fury if they roused him from his sleep. From seven in the evening till six in
the morning the agony continued, and when at length the order came for their release, only
twenty-three of the hundred and forty-six tottered forth, the ghastliest wrecks of human beings.

Mr. Holwell and three others were then conveyed as prisoners in a bullock cart to Omichand's
garden, and thence to Murshidabad; the rest were bidden to go where they pleased.

The news was kept from Desmond. It was not till weeks after that he heard of the terrible tragedy.
Then, with the horror and pity he felt, there was mingled a fear that Bulger had been among
those who perished. The seaman, he knew, had taken a stout part in the defense of the fort;
Mr. Merriman had not mentioned him as being among the prisoners; it was possible that he had
escaped; but the thought that the brave fellow had perhaps died in that awful hole made Desmond
sick at heart.

Though the season was now at its hottest, the fresh sea air proved a wonderful tonic to him,
and he rapidly regained his strength. The voyage was slow. The Hormuzzeer beat down the Bay
of Bengal against the monsoon now beginning, and it was nearly two months before she made Penang.
She unloaded there: her cargo was sold at great profit, she being the only vessel that had
for some time left the Hugli; and Desmond found his capital increased by nearly a hundred per
cent. She then took on a cargo for Madras, where she arrived in the first week of September.

Desmond took the earliest opportunity of going on shore. The roads were studded with Admiral
Watson's fleet, and he learned that Clive was in the town preparing an expedition to avenge
the wrong suffered by the English in Calcutta. He hastened to obtain an interview with the colonel.

"'Tis no conventional speech when I say I am glad to see you alive and well, Mr. Burke," said
Clive. "Have you come direct from Calcutta?"

"No, sir. I left there some ten weeks ago for Penang."

"Then I have later news of my friend Merriman than you. Poor fellow! He is distraught at the
loss of his wife and girl. I have received several letters  from him. He spoke of you; told
me of what you had done at Cossimbazar. Gad, sir, you did right well in defending his goods;
and I promise myself if ever I lay hands on that villain Peloti he shall smart for that piece
of rascaldom and many more. Are you still minded to take service with me?"

"I should like nothing better, sir, but I doubt whether I can think of it until I see Mr. Merriman."

"Tut, man, that is unnecessary. 'Twas arranged between Mr. Merriman and me in Bombay that he
would release you as soon as a vacancy occurred in the Company's military establishment. There
are several such vacancies now, and I shall be glad to have a Shropshire man as a lieutenant.
I trow you are not averse to taking a hand in this expedition?"

"No one who knows what happened in Calcutta can be that, sir."

"That is settled, then. I appoint you a cadet in the Company's service."

"Thank you indeed, sir," said Desmond, flushing with pleasure. "I have longed all my life to
serve under you."

"You may find me a hard taskmaster," said Clive, setting his lips in the grim way that so many
had cause to fear.

"When do we start, sir?"

"That I can't say. 'Tis not by my wish we have delayed so long. I will let you know when I
require your services. Meanwhile, make yourself acquainted with the officers."

Desmond learned from his new comrades that there was some disagreement among the Madras Council
about the command of the expedition. Clive had volunteered  to lead it as soon as the news
of the fall of Calcutta arrived;  but  he  was inferior in rank to Colonel Adlercron of the
Thirty-ninth Regiment, and that officer was a great stickler for military etiquette. The Council
had some reason for anxiety. They were expecting to hear, from outcoming ships, of the outbreak
of war between France and England; and as the French were strong in Southern India, it required
much moral courage to weaken the force disposable for the defense of Madras.

One day, before the matter of the command had been definitely settled, Desmond received a summons
from Clive. He found the great soldier alone.

"You have heard of the discussions in the Council, Mr. Burke," began Clive without ceremony.
"I tell you this: I and no other will command this expedition. In that confidence I have sent
for you. What I have heard of you speaks well for your readiness and resource, and I think
you could be more useful to me in the Hugli than waiting here until our respected  Council
can  make  up their minds. The men here are not acquainted with Bengal. You are: you know the
country from Calcutta to Murshidabad, at all events, and you speak Hindustani with some fluency.
You can serve me best by picking up any information you can get regarding the enemy's movements.
You are willing, I take it, to run some risks?"

"I'll do anything you wish, sir."

"As I expected. Well, you will go at once to Fulta. Not to Mr. Drake: I've no confidence in
him and the other old women who are conducting the Company's affairs in Bengal. Major Killpatrick,
an excellent officer, left here in June with a small reinforcement. He is now at Fulta. You
will join him. I shall ask him to give you a free hand in going and coming and collecting information.
You understand that in a sense you are on  secret  service.  I want you to keep an eye particularly
on the movements of the French. 'Tis reported that they are in league with Sirajuddaula: find
out whether that's the case: and gad, sir, if it is, I'll not be satisfied till I've turned
'em neck and crop out of Bengal. You'll want money: here are five thousand rupees; if you want
more, ask Major Killpatrick. Now, when can you start?"

"The Hormuzzeer is sailing in ballast tomorrow, sir. She'll go light, and aboard her I should
get to Fulta as quickly as on any other vessel."

"Very well. I trust you: much depends on your work; go on as you have begun and I promise you
Robert Clive won't forget it. Goodby.

"By the way, your duties will take you through the parts where Mrs. Merriman disappeared. Your
first duty is to me, and through me to your king and country, remember that. But if you can
get any news of the missing ladies, so much the better. Mrs. Merriman is a cousin of my wife's,
and I am deeply concerned about her fate."

Next day the Hormuzzeer sailed, and by the middle of September Desmond had reached Fulta, and
reported himself both to Major Killpatrick and to Mr. Merriman there.

Chapter 24: In which the danger of judging by appearance is notably exemplified.

"Sure 'tis a most pleasant engaging young man," said Mrs. Merriman, as her boat dropped down
the river towards Chandernagore. "Don't you think so, Phyllis?"

"Why, mamma, it does seem so. But 'tis too soon to make up my mind in ten minutes."

"Indeed, miss! Let me tell you I made up my mind about your father in five. La, how Merriman
will laugh when he hears 'twas Mr. Burke gave him that scar--

"What is the matter, Munnoo Khan?"

The boat had stopped with a jerk, and the boatmen were looking at one another with some anxiety.
The serang explained that ill luck had caused the boat to strike a snag in the river, and she
was taking in water.

"You clumsy man! The Sahib will be angry with you. Make haste, then; row harder."

"Mamma, 'tis impossible!" cried Phyllis in alarm. "See, the water is coming in fast; we shall
be swamped in a few minutes!"

"Mercy me. 'Tis as you say! Munnoo Khan, row to the nearest ghat; you see it there! Sure 'tis
a private ghat, belonging to the house of one of the French merchants. He will lend us a boat.
'Twill be vastly annoying if we do not reach home before dark."

The men just succeeded in reaching the ghat, on the left bank of the river about a mile below
Chandernagore, before the boat sank. When the party had landed, Mrs. Merriman sent her jamadar
up to the house to ask for the loan of a boat, or for shelter while one was being obtained
from Chandernagore.

"Tell the Sahib 'tis the bibi of an English sahib," she said. "He will not refuse to do English
ladies a service."

The jamadar shortly returned, followed by a tall dark-featured European in white clothes. He
bowed and smiled pleasantly when he came down to the ghat, and addressed Mrs. Merriman in French.

"I am happy to be of service, Madam. Alas! I have no boat at hand, but I shall send instantly
to Chandernagore for one. Meanwhile, if you will have the goodness to come to my house, my
wife will be proud to offer you refreshments, and we shall do our best to entertain you until
the boat arrives.

"Permit me, Madam."

He offered his left hand to assist the lady up the steps.

"I  had  the  mischance  to injure my right hand the other day," he explained. "It is needful
to keep it from the air."

It was thrust into the pocket of his coat.

"The Frenchman is vastly polite," said Mrs. Merriman to her daughter, as they preceded him
up the path to the house. "But there, that is the way with their nation."

"Hush, mamma!" said Phyllis, "he may understand English.

"I do not like his smile," she added in a whisper.

"La, my dear, it means nothing; it comes natural to a Frenchman. He looks quite genteel, you
must confess; I should not be surprised if he were a somebody in his own land."

As if in response to the implied question, the man moved to her side, and, in a manner of great
deference, said:

"Your jamadar named you to me, Madam; I feel that I ought to explain who I  am. My name is
Jacques de Bonnefon--a name, I may say it without boasting, once even better known at the court
of his Majesty, King Louis the Fifteenth, than in Chandernagore. Alas, Madam fortune is a fickle
jade. Here I am now, in Bengal, slowly retrieving by honest commerce a patrimony of which my
lamented father was not too careful."

"There! What did I say?" whispered Mrs. Merriman to her daughter as Monsieur de Bonnefon went
forward to meet them on the threshold of his veranda. "A noble in misfortune! I only hope his
wife is presentable."

They entered the house and were shown into a room opening on the veranda.

"You will pardon my leaving you for a few moments, Mesdames," said their obliging  host.  "I
shall bring my wife to welcome you, and send to Chandernagore for a boat."

With a bow he left them, closing the door behind him.

"Madame  de  Bonnefon  was taken by surprise, I suppose," said Mrs. Merriman, "and is making
her toilet. The vanity of these French people, my dear!"

Minutes  passed. Evening was coming on apace; little light filtered through the chiks. The
ladies sat, wondering why their hostess did not appear.

"Madame takes a long time, my dear," said Mrs. Merriman.

"I  don't like it, mamma. I wish we hadn't come into the stranger's house."

"Why, my love, what nonsense! The man is not a savage. The French are not at war with us, and
if they were, they do not war on women. Something has happened to delay Monsieur de Bonnefon."

"I can't help it, mamma; I don't like his looks; I fear something, I don't know what. Oh, I
wish father were here!"

She  got  up and walked to and fro restlessly. Then, as by a sudden impulse, she went quickly
to the door and turned the handle, She gave a low cry under her breath, and sprang round.

"Mamma! Mamma!" she cried. "I knew it! The door is locked."

Mrs. Merriman rose immediately.

"Nonsense, my dear! He would not dare do such a thing!"

But the door did not yield to her hand, though she pulled and shook it violently.

"The insolent villain!" she exclaimed.

She had plenty of courage, and if her voice shook, it was with anger, not fear. She went to
the window opening on the veranda, loosed the bars, and looked out.

"We  can  get  out  here,"  she  said.  "We  will walk instantly to Chandernagore, and demand
assistance from the governor."

But the next moment she shrank back into the room. Two armed peons stood in the veranda, one
on each side of the window. Recovering herself, Mrs. Merriman went to the window again.

"They will not dare to stop us," she said.

"Let me pass, you men; I will not be kept here."

But the natives did not budge from their post. Only, as the angry lady flung open one of the
folding doors, they closed together and barred the way with their pikes. Accustomed to absolute
subservience from her own peons, Mrs. Merriman saw at once that insistence was useless. If
these men did not obey instantly they would not obey at all.

"I cannot fight them," she said, again turning back. "The wretches! If only your father were here!"

"Or Mr. Burke," said Phyllis. "Oh, how I wish he had come with us!"

"Wishing is no use, my dear. I vow the Frenchman shall pay dearly for this insolence. We must
make the best of it."

Meanwhile Monsieur de Bonnefon had gone down to the ghat. But he did not send  a  messenger
to Chandernagore as he had promised. He told the jamadar, in Urdu, that his mistress and the
chota bibi would remain at his house for the night. They feared another accident if they should
proceed in the darkness. He bade the man bring his party to the house, where they would all
find accommodation until the morning.

In the small hours of that night there was a short sharp scuffle in the servants' quarters.
The Merriman boatmen and peons were set upon by a score of sturdy men who promptly roped them
together, and, hauling them down to the ghat and into a boat, rowed them up to Hugli. There
they were thrown into the common prison.

In the morning a charge of dacoity {gang robbery} was laid against them. The story was that
they had been apprehended in the act of breaking into the house of Monsieur Sinfray. Plenty
of witnesses were forthcoming to give evidence against them; such can be purchased outside
any cutcherry in India for a few rupees. The men were convicted. Some were given a choice between
execution and service in the Nawab's army; others were sentenced  offhand  to a term of imprisonment,
and these considered themselves lucky in escaping with their lives. In vain they protested
their innocence and pleaded that a messenger might be sent to Calcutta; the Nawab was known
to be so much incensed against the English that the fact of their being Company's servants
would probably avail them nothing.

About the same time that the men were being condemned, a two-ox hackeri, such as was used for
the conveyance of pardarnishin {literally, sitting behind screens} women, left the house of
Monsieur de Bonnefon and drove inland for some five miles. The curtains were closely drawn,
and the people who met it on the road wondered from what zenana the ladies thus screened from
the public gaze had come. The team halted at a lonely house surrounded by a high wall, once
the residence of a zamindar, now owned by Coja  Solomon  of  Cossimbazar,  and leased to a
fellow Armenian of Chandernagore. It had been hired more than once by Monsieur Sinfray, the
secretary to the Council at Chandernagore and a persona grata with the Nawab, for al fresco
entertainments got up in imitation of the fetes at Versailles. But of late Monsieur Sinfray
had had too much important business on hand to spare time for such delights. He was believed
to be with Sirajuddaula at Murshidabad, and the house had remained untenanted.

The hackeri pulled up at the gate in the wall. The curtains were drawn aside; a group of peons
surrounded the cart to fend off prying eyes; and the passengers descended--two ladies clad
in long white saris {garment in one piece, covering the body from head to foot} and closely
veiled. A sleek Bengali had already got out from a palanquin which had accompanied the hackeri;
in a second palanquin sat Monsieur de Bonnefon, who did not take the trouble to alight.

With many salaams the Bengali led the ladies through the gate and across the compound towards
the house. They both walked proudly erect, with a gait very different from that of the native
ladies who time and again had followed the same path. They entered the house; the heavy door
was shut; and from behind the screens of the room to which they were led they heard the hackeri
rumbling away.

Monsieur de Bonnefon, as his palanquin was borne off, soliloquized, ticking off imaginary accounts
on the fingers of his left hand; the right hand  was partly hidden by a black velvet mitten.
His reckoning ran somewhat as follows:

"In account with Edward Merriman:

"Credit--to the hounding out of the Company by his friend Clive: nominal: I made more outside;
to scurrilous abuse in public and private: mere words; say fifty rupees; to threat to hang
me: mere words again: say fifty rupees. Total credit, say a hundred rupees.

"Debit--to ransom for wife and daughter: two lakhs.

"Balance in my favor, say a hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred rupees.

"In  a  few  weeks,  Mr. Edward Merriman, I shall trouble you for a settlement."

On arriving at Fulta, Desmond found that the European fugitives from Calcutta were living for
the most part on board the country ships in the river,  while the military were cantoned in
huts ashore, on a plain eastward of the town. The avenues leading to their camp were occupied
by Sepoys. Desmond lost no time in making his way to Major Killpatrick's hut and presenting
his credentials.

"Very glad to make your acquaintance," said the major heartily. "Oh yes, I know all about you.
Mr. Merriman has told me of the way you brought his cargo through from Cossimbazar, and the
plucky stand you made against odds. By Jove, sir, 'twas an amazing good piece of work. You
deserved a commission if any youngster ever did, and I'm glad Mr. Clive has done the right
thing. Let me tell you, Mr. Clive don't make mistakes--in military matters, that is to say.
And Gheria, now: egad, sir, you must have a head on your shoulders; and that en't flattery;
we soldiers en't in the habit of laying on the butter.

"You did well; and sure you'll be of the greatest use to us here. We need a few men as are
able to keep their heads in a warm place: and, begad, if they'd such men in Bengal these last
months we wouldn't be rotting here in this fever-haunted place. Why, I've lost thirty-two officers
and men in less than a couple of months, and I'll be lucky if I've fifty fit for service by
the time Mr. Clive arrives. When may we expect him, sir?"

"He couldn't tell me, sir. The Madras Council can't make up their minds who is to command the
expedition, and they're waiting for ships from home."

Major Killpatrick laughed.

"Why, I know how that will end. With Mr. Stringer Lawrence laid up there is only one man fit
to do this job, and that's Mr. Clive, and the sooner the gentlemen on their office stools at
Madras see that, the better in the end for everybody.

"Now you're strong again, eh? Got rid of that touch of fever?"

"Yes, sir; I'm as well as ever."

"And want to be doing something, I'll be bound. Well, 'twill need some thinking, what you've
to do. We're badly served with news. We've got spies, of course; but I don't set much store
by native spies in this country. We've information by the bushel, but when you come to sift
it out there's precious little of it you can trust. And the enemy has got spies, too--hundreds
of 'em. I'll bet my boots there's a regular system of kasids for carrying news of us to Manik
Chand and from him to the Nawab. If the truth was known, I dare say that rascal knows how many
hairs I have on my bald crown under my wig--if that's any interest to him.

"Well, I suppose you'll join Mr. Merriman on board one of the ships. Better chance of escaping
the fever there. I'll turn over a thing or two I have in my mind and send for you when I've
done turning."

On the way back to the shore Desmond met the serang who had accompanied him down the river
from Cossimbazar. The man explained that after the capture of Calcutta his brother Hubbo, the
Company's syr serang {head boatman},  had been impressed into the service of the Nawab, and
he himself  had  been sent by Hubbo to Fulta to assist the Council and merchants of the Company.
He had there met Mr. Merriman, whom in common with many others he had believed to be dead.
Mr. Merriman, having no immediate need for his services, had willingly permitted him to take
his brother's place in the employment of the Company.

Mr.  Merriman  welcomed  Desmond with quite fatherly affection, and congratulated him heartily
on his appointment. The Hormuzzeer being unlikely, owing to the complete cessation of trade,
to make another voyage for some months to come, he decided to take up his quarters on board,
and Desmond lived with him as a matter of course.

Desmond was shocked to see the change wrought on his friend by the loss of  his wife and daughter.
All his gay spirits had left him; he had thinned perceptibly, and his eyes had that strained
look which only a great sorrow can cause.

"I have been thinking it over, Desmond," he said as they sat in the cabin,  "and  I can only
conclude that this is one more of Peloti's villainies. Good God! had he not done me and mine
harm enough? Who else would be so dead to all sense of right, of decency, as to seize upon
two helpless women? My brother was hanged, Desmond; hanging is too good for that  scoundrel;
but we cannot touch him; he laughs at us; and I am helpless--helpless!"

"Like you, sir, I have come to believe that you owe this terrible sorrow to Diggle--I must
always call him that. Don't give up heart, sir. What his motive is, if he has indeed captured
the ladies, I cannot tell. It may be to use them as hostages in case he gets into trouble with
us; it is impossible to see into the black depths of his mind. But I believe the ladies are
safe, and, please God, I shall learn something about them and maybe bring them back to you."

Desmond waited a couple of days in the hope of receiving a definite task from Major Killpatrick.
But that officer, while an excellent soldier, was not fertile in expedients. The process of
"turning things over in his mind" did not furnish him with an inspiration.

He came on board the Hormuzzeer one afternoon, and confessed that he didn't see how Desmond
could possibly get up and down the river. Mr. Merriman reminded him that in the early days
of the stay at Fulta, Mr. Robert Gregory had gone up with requests to the French and Dutch
for assistance. Under cover of a storm he passed Tanna and Calcutta unnoticed by the Nawab's men.

"The French were very polite, but wouldn't move a finger for us," added Mr.  Merriman.  "The
Dutch  were more neighborly, and sent us some provisions--badly needed, I assure you. Mr. Gregory
is still with them at Chinsura."

"If he got through, why shouldn't I?" asked Desmond.

"My dear boy," said Killpatrick, "the river is narrowly watched. The Moors know that Gregory
outwitted them; sure no other Englishman could repeat the trick. And if you were caught, there's
no saying how Manik Chand might serve you. He seems disposed to be friendly, to be sure: he's
made governor of Calcutta now, and wants to feel his feet. But he's a weak man, by all accounts;
and weak men, when they are afraid, are always cruel. If he caught an Englishman spying out
the land he'd most probably treat him after oriental methods.

"In fact, the situation between him and us is such," concluded the major with a laugh, "that
he'd be quite justified in stringing you up."

Major Killpatrick left without offering any suggestion. When he had gone Desmond spent an hour
or two in "turning things over in his mind." He felt that the major was well disposed and would
probably jump at any reasonable scheme that was put before him.

After a period of quiet reflection he sought out Hossain, the serang, and had a long talk with
him. At the conclusion of the interview he went to see Mr. Merriman. He explained that Hossain
wished to return to the service of a former employer, a native grain merchant in Calcutta,
who did a large trade along the Hugli from the Sandarbands to Murshidabad. The consent of the
Council was required, and Desmond wished Mr. Merriman to arrange the matter without giving
any explanation.

The merchant was naturally anxious to know why Desmond interested himself in the man, and what
he learned drew from him an instant promise to obtain the Council's consent without delay.
Then Desmond made his way to Major Killpatrick's hut, and remained closeted with that genial
officer till a late hour.

Six weeks later a heavily-laden petala, with a dinghy trailing behind, was dropping down the
river above Hugli. Its crew numbered four. One was Hossain, the serang, who had left Fulta
with Desmond on the day after his interview with Major Killpatrick. Two were dark-skinned boatmen,
Bengalis somewhat stupid in appearance. The fourth, who was steering, was rather lighter in
hue, as well as more alert and energetic in mien: a lascar, as Hossain explained in answer
to inquiries along the river. He had lately been employed on one of the Company's vessels,
but it had been sunk in the Hugli during the siege of Calcutta. He was a handy man in a boat,
and very glad to earn a few pice in this time of stagnant trade. Things were not looking bright
for boatmen on the Hugli; as only a few vessels had left the river from Chandernagore and Chinsura
since the troubles began there was little or no opening for men of the shipwrecked crew.

The petala made fast for the night near the bank, at a spot a little below Hugli, between that
place and Chinsura. When the two Bengalis had eaten their evening rice, Hossain told them that
they might, if they pleased, take the dinghy and attend a tamasha {entertainment} that was
being held in Chinsura that night in honor of the wedding of one of the Dutch Company's principal
gumashtas. The Bengalis, always ready for an entertainment of this kind, slipped overboard
and were soon rowing down to Chinsura. Their orders were to be back immediately after the second
watch of the night. Only the lascar and Hossain were left in the boat.

Ten minutes after the men had disappeared from view, the serang lit a small oil lamp in the
tiny cabin. He then made his way to the helm, whispered a word in the lascar's ear, and took
his place. The latter nodded and went into the cabin. Drawing the curtains, he squatted on
a mattress, took from a hiding place in the cabin a few sheets of paper and a pencil, and,
resting the paper on the back of a tray, began to write.

As he did so he frequently consulted a scrap of paper he kept at his left hand; it was closely
covered with letters and figures, these latter not Hindustani characters, but the Arabic figures
employed by Europeans.

The first line of what he wrote himself ran thus:

29 19 28 19 36 38 32 20 21 39 23 34 19 29 29 35 32 38 24 38 23 32 {constructed from the cipher
actually used by Mr. Watts at Murshidabad}.

The letter or message upon which he was engaged was not a lengthy one, but it took a long time
to compose. When it was finished the lascar went over it line by line, comparing it with the
paper at his left hand. Then he folded it very small, sealed it with a wafer, and, returning
to the serang, said a few words. Whereupon Hossain made a trumpet of his hands, and, looking
toward the left bank, sounded a few notes in imitation of a bird's warble. The shore was fringed
here with low bushes. As if in answer to the call a small boat darted out from the shelter
of a bush; a few strokes brought it alongside of the petala; and the serang, bending over,
handed the folded paper to the boatman, and whispered a few words in his ear. The man pushed
off, and the lascar watched the boat float silently down the stream until it was lost to sight.

Dawn was hardly breaking when Major Killpatrick, awakened by his servant, received from his
hands a folded paper which by the aid of a candle he began to pore over, laboriously comparing
it with a small code similar to that used by the lascar. One by one he penciled on a scrap
of paper certain letters, every now and then whistling between his teeth as he spelt out the
words they made. The result appeared thus:

Magazines for ammunition and stores of grain being prepared Tribeni and Hugli. Bazaar rumor
Nawab about to march with army to Calcutta. Orders issued Hugli traffic to be strictly watched.
Dutch phataks {gate or barrier} closed. Forth unable leave Chinsura. Tanna Fort 9 guns; opposite
Tanna 6 guns; Holwell's garden 5 guns; 4 each Surman's and Ganj; 2 each Mr. Watts' house, Seth's
ghat, Maryas ghat, carpenter's yard.

"Egad!" he exclaimed, on a second reading of the message, "the boy's a conjurer. This is important
enough to send to Mr. Clive at once. But I'll make a copy of it first in case of accident."

Having made his copy and sealed the original and his first transcription, he  summoned his
servant and bade him send for the kasid. To him he intrusted the papers, directing him to convey
them without loss of time to Clive Sahib, whom he might expect to find at Kalpi.

It was December thirteenth. Two months before, the fleet containing Colonel Clive and the troops
destined for the Bengal expedition had sailed from Madras. The force consisted of two hundred
and seventy-six king's troops, six hundred and seventy-six of the Company's, about a thousand
Sepoys, and two hundred and sixty lascars. They were embarked on five of the king's ships,
with Admiral Watson in the Kent, and as many Company's vessels.

Baffling winds, various mishaps, and the calms usual at this time of the year had protracted
the voyage, so seriously that the men had to be put on a two-thirds allowance of rations. Many
of the European soldiers were down with scurvy, many of the Sepoys actually died of starvation,
having consumed all their rice, and refusing to touch the meat provided for the British soldiers,
for fear of losing caste. When the admiral at length arrived at Fulta, he had only six of the
ten ships with which he started, two that had parted company arriving some ten days later,
and two being forced to put back to Madras, under stress of weather.

While the Kent lay at Kalpi Clive received the message sent him by Major Killpatrick,  and
was visited by Mr. Drake and other members of the Council, from whom he heard of the sickness
among the troops. On arriving at Fulta he at once went on shore and visited the major.

"Sorry to hear of your sad case, Mr. Killpatrick," he said. "We're very little better off.
But we must make the best of it. I got your note. 'Twas an excellent greeting. Young Burke
is a capital fellow; I have not mistook his capacity."

"Faith, 'twas what I told him, sir. I said Colonel Clive never mistook his men."

"Well,  if  that's  true,  what  you said won't make him vain. This information is valuable:
you see that. Have you heard anything more from the lad?"

"Nothing, sir."

"And you can't communicate with him?"

"No, 'twas a part of his scheme never to let me know his whereabouts, in case the messages
miscarried."

"So; 'twas his scheme, not yours?"

"Egad, sir, I've no head for that sort of thing," said Killpatrick with a laugh. "Give me a
company, and a wall to scale or a regiment to charge, and--"

"My dear fellow," interrupted Clive, "we all know the king has no better officer. Credit where
credit is due, major, and you're not the man to grudge this youngster his full credit for an
uncommonly daring and clever scheme. Did you see him in his disguise?"

"I did, sir, and at a distance he took in both Mr. Merriman and myself."

"Well, he's a boy to keep an eye on, and I only hope that tigers or dacoits or the Nawab's
Moors won't get hold of him; he's the kind of lad we can't spare. Now, let me know the state
of your troops."

When he had sent off his note to Major Killpatrick, Desmond enjoyed a short spell on deck preparatory
to turning in. Hossain was placidly smoking his hubblebubble; from the far bank of the Hugli
came the mingled sounds of tom toms and other instruments; near the boat all was quiet, the
wavelets of the stream lapping idly against the sides, the stillness broken only by the occasional
howl of a jackal prowling near the bank in quest of the corpses of pious Hindus consigned to
the sacred waters of the Ganges.

Desmond was half dozing when he was startled into wakefulness by a sudden clamor from the native
town. He heard shots, loud cries, the hideous blare of the Bengal trumpets. For half an hour
the shouts continued intermittently; then they gradually died away.

Wondering whether the tamasha had ended in a tumult, Desmond was about to seek his couch, when,
just beneath him, as it seemed, he heard a voice--a feeble cry for help. He sprang up and looked
over the side. Soon a dark head appeared on the water. With a cry to the serang to cast loose
and row after him, Desmond took a header into the stream, and with a few strokes gained the
drowning man's side.

He was clearly exhausted. Supporting him with one arm, Desmond struck out with the other, and
being a strong swimmer he reached the stern of the boat even before the serang had slipped
his moorings. With Hossain's aid he lifted the man into the boat, and carried him to the cabin.
He was all but unconscious.

A mouthful of arrack {fermented liquor made from rice or the juice of the palm} from the serang's
jar revived him. No sooner was he in command of his breath than he implored his rescuers for
their help and protection. He had escaped, he said, from Hugli Fort, not without a gunshot
wound behind his shoulder. He spoke in Bengali. Seeing that he was too much exhausted and agitated
to tell his story that night, Desmond bade the serang assure him of his safety. Then they made
shift to tend his wound, and, comforting him with food and drink, left him to sleep and recover.

The two Bengalis who had been to Chinsura returned before they were expected. They had been
alarmed by the uproar. As soon as they were aboard Desmond decided to drop a mile or two farther
down the river. The boat coming to a ghat below Chandernagore, the serang ordered the men to
pull in, and tied up for the night.

In the morning the Bengalis were despatched on some errand along the bank, and the coast being
clear Desmond went with the serang to the wounded man to learn particulars of the escape. The
Bengali had now almost wholly recovered, and was very voluble in his gratitude for his rescue.
Happening to glance towards the bank, he suddenly uttered an exclamation of fear, and begged
the serang with frantic waving of the hands to leave the spot at once.

"Why, O brother, this fear?" asked Hossain.

"I will tell you. It is a great fear. Just before the coming of the rains I was at Khulna.
There I was hired by the head serang of a lady traveling to Calcutta. She was the wife of a
burra sahib of the great Company, and with  her  was  her  daughter.  All  went  well  until
we came near Chandernagore; we struck a snag; the boat sprang a leak; we feared the bibis would
be drowned. We rowed to this very ghat; a sahib welcomed the ladies; they went into his house
yonder. Presently he sent for us; we lodged with his servants; but in the night we were set
upon, bound, and carried to Hugli. False witnesses accused us of being dacoits; we were condemned;
and I was confined with others in the prison.

"Always since then have I looked for a chance of escape. It came at last. Some of the jailers
went last night to the tamasha at Chinsura. I stole out and got away. A sentry fired upon me,
and hit me; but I am a good swimmer and I plunged into the river. You know all that happened
then, O serang, and I beseech you leave this place; it is a dreadful place; some harm will
come to us all."

Desmond's knowledge of Bengali was as yet slight, and he caught only portions of the man's
narrative. But he understood enough to convince him that he was at last on the track of the
missing ladies; and when, shortly afterwards,  Hossain  gave  him  in Urdu the whole of the
story, he determined at once to act on the information.

On the return of the two Bengalis, he arranged with the serang to set them at work on some
imaginary repairs to the boat: that pretext for delay  was  as  good as another. Then, Hossain
having reassured the fugitive, he himself landed and made his way up to the house.

It was closed. There was no sign of its being inhabited. But about a hundred yards from the
gate Desmond saw a basti {block of native huts}, and from one of the huts smoke was issuing.
He sauntered up. Before the door, lolling in unstudied dishabille, squatted a bearded, turbaned
Mohammedan, whom from his rotundity Desmond guessed to be the khansaman of the big house.

"Salaam aleikam {peace be with you!}, khansaman!" said Desmond suavely. "Pardon the curiosity
of an ignorant sailor from Gujarat. What nawab owns the great house yonder?"

The khansaman, beaming in acknowledgment of the implied compliment to his own importance, replied:

"To Sinfray Sahib, worthy khalasi."

"The great Sinfray Sahib of Chandernagore? Surely that is a strange thing!"

"Strange! What is strange? That Sinfray Sahib should own so fine a house? You should see his
other house in Chandernagore: then indeed you might lift your eyes in wonder."

"Nay, indeed, I marveled not at that, for Sinfray Sahib is indeed a great man. We who dwell
upon the kala pani know well his name. Is it not known in the bazaars in Pondicheri and Surat?
But I marvel at this, khansaman: that  on one day, this day of my speaking to you, I should
meet the sahib's most trusty servant, as I doubt not you are, and also the man who has  sworn
revenge upon the owner of this house--ay, and on all the household."

"Bismillah! {'in the name of Allah!'--a common exclamation}" exclaimed the khansaman, spitting
out his betel. He was thoroughly interested, but as yet unconcerned. "What do you mean, khalasi?"

"I parted but now, on the river, from a fellow boatman who of late has lain in prison at Hugli,
put there, they say, by order of Sinfray Sahib. He is not a dacoit; no man less so; but false
witnesses rose up against him. And, I bethink me, he said that the sahib's khansaman was one
of these men with lying lips.

"Surely he was in error; for your face, O khansaman, is open as the sun, your lips are fragrant
with the very attar of truth. But he is filled with rage and fury; in his madness he will not
tarry to inquire. If he should meet you--well, it is the will of Allah: no man can escape his
fate."

The khansaman, as Desmond spoke, looked more and more distressed; and at the last words his
face was livid.

"It is not true," he said. "But I know the blind fury of revenge. Do thou entreat him for me.
I will pay thee well. I have saved a few pice {coin, value one-eighth of a penny}. It will
be worth five rupees to thee; and to make amends to the madman, I will give him fifty rupees,
even if it strips me of all I have. Allah knows it was not my doing; it was forced upon me."

"How could that be, khansaman?" said Desmond, letting pass the man's contradictory statements.

"It is not necessary to explain; my word is my word."

"No doubt; but so enraged is the khalasi I speak of that unless I can explain to him fully
he will not heed me. Never shall I dissuade him from his purpose."

"It is the will of Allah!" said the khansaman resignedly. "I will tell you. It was not Sinfray
Sahib at all. He was at the Nawab's court at Murshidabad. He had lent his house to a friend
while he was absent. The friend had a spite against Merriman Sahib, the merchant at Calcutta;
and when the bibi and the chota bibi came down the river he seized them. Sinfray Sahib believes
there was an attack by dacoits; but the bibi's peons were carried away by the sahib's friend:
it was he that brought the evidence against them. The Angrezi Sahib induced me to swear falsely
by avouching that Sinfray Sahib was also an enemy of Merriman Sahib; but when the judge had
said his word the sahib bade me keep silence with my master, for he was ignorant of it all.
The Angrezi Sahib is a terrible man: what could I do? I was afraid to speak."

"And what was the name of the Angrezi Sahib?"

"His name?--It was Higli--no, Digli Sahib--accursed be the day I first saw him."

Desmond drew a long breath.

"And what became of the bibi and the chota bibi?"

"They were taken away."

"Whither?"

"I do not know."

The answer was glib; Desmond thought a little too glib.

"Why then, khansaman," he said, "I fear it would be vain for me to reason with the man I spoke
of. He has eaten the salt of Merriman Sahib; his lord's injury is his also. But you acted for
the best. Allah hafiz! that will be a morsel of comfort even if this man's knife should find
its way between your ribs. Not every dying man has such consolation. Live in peace, good khansaman."

Desmond, who had been squatting in the oriental manner--an accomplishment he had learned with
some pains at Gheria--rose to leave. The khansaman's florid cheeks again put on a sickly hue,
and when the seeming lascar had gone a few paces he called him back.

"Ahi, excellent khalasi. I think--I remember--I am almost sure I can discover where the two
bibis are concealed."

"Inshallah!  {'please  God!'--a  common exclamation} That is indeed fortunate," said Desmond,
turning back. "There lies the best chance of averting the wrath of this much-wronged man."

"Wait but a little till I have clad myself duly; I will then go to a friend yonder and inquire."

He went into his hut and soon returned clothed in the garments that befitted his position.
Walking to a hut at the end of the block, he made pretense, Desmond suspected, of inquiring.
He was soon back.

"Allah is good!" he said. "The khitmatgar yonder tells me they were taken to a house three
coss {the coss is nearly two miles} distant, belonging to the great faujdar Manik Chand. It
is rented from him by Digli Sahib, who is a great friend of his Excellency."

"Well, khansaman, you will show me the way to the house."

But the khansaman appeared to have donned, with his clothes, a sense of his own importance.
The authoritative tone of the lascar offended his dignity.

"Who are you, scum of the sea, that you tell a khansaman of Bengal what he shall do? Hold your
tongue, piece of seaweed, or by the beard of the Prophet--"

The threat was never completed, for Desmond, stepping up close to the man, caught him by the
back of the neck and shook him till his teeth rattled in his head.

"Quick! Lead the way! Foolish khansaman, do you want your fat body shaken to a jelly? That
is the way with us khalasis from Gujarat. Quick, I say!"

"Hold, khalasi!" panted the khansaman; "I will do what you wish. Believe me, you are the first
khalasi from Gujarat I have seen--"

"Or you would not have delayed so long. Quick, man!"

With a downcast air the man set off. The sun was getting high; being fat and soft, the khansaman
was soon in distress. But Desmond allowed him no respite. In about two hours they arrived at
the house he had mentioned. The gate was ajar; the door broken open. Hastily entering, Desmond
knew instinctively by the appearance of the place that it was deserted.

He went through the house from bottom to top. Not a living person was to be seen. But in one
of the rooms his quick eye caught sight of a small hairpin such as only a European woman would
use. He picked it up. In another room a cooking pot had been left, and it was evident that
it had but lately been used. The simple furniture was in some disorder.

The khansaman had with much labor managed to mount the stairs.

"Allah is Allah!" he said. "They are gone!"

Chapter 26: In which presence of mind is shown to be next best to absence of body.

The khansaman's surprise was clearly genuine, and Desmond refrained from visiting on him his
disappointment. Bitter as that was, his alarm was still  more  keen.  What had become of the
ladies! With all his old impulsiveness he had come to rescue them, never pausing to think of
what risks he himself might run. And now they were gone! Could Diggle have suspected that his
carefully-hidden tracks were being followed up, and have removed the prisoners to some spot
remoter from the river? It was idle to speculate; they were gone; and there was no obvious
clue to their whereabouts.

The khansaman, limp and damp after his unwonted exercise, had squatted on the floor and was
fanning himself, groaning deeply. Desmond went to the window of the room and looked out over
the country; wondering, longing, fearing. As he gazed disconsolately before him, he caught
sight of a party of horsemen rapidly approaching. Bidding the khansaman stifle his groans,
he watched them eagerly through the chiks of the window. Soon a dozen native horsemen cantered
up to the front gate and drew rein.

One of them, clad in turban of gold tissue, short blue jacket lavishly decorated with gold,
and crimson trousers, bade the rest dismount. He was a tall man, a handsome figure in his fine
array. He wore a sword with hilt inlaid with gold, the scabbard covered with crimson velvet;
and in his girdle was stuck a knife with agate handle, and a small Moorish dagger ornamented
with gold and silver.

He stood for a time gazing as in perplexity at the broken gateway. His face was concealed by
his turban from Desmond, looking from above. But when he directed his glance upward, Desmond,
peering through the chiks, could scarcely believe his eyes. The features were those of Marmaduke
Diggle. His heart thumped against his ribs. Never, perhaps, in the whole course  of  his  adventures,
had he been in such deadly peril. The appearance of the party had been so sudden, and he had
been so deeply engrossed with his musings, that he had not had time to think of his own situation.

"Come, son of a pig," said Diggle at length, throwing himself from his horse and beckoning
to his syce, "we will search the place. There must be something to show who the dacoits were."

He strode into the compound, followed by his trembling servant.

"Indeed, huzur," said the man in shrill tones of excuse, "we did our best. But they were many:
our livers were as water."

"Chup {shut up}, pig! Wait till you are spoken to," exclaimed Diggle, turning angrily upon him.

"Achha, sahib! bahut achha, sahib {good, sahib--very good, sahib}!"

A vicious kick cut short his protestations, and the two passed out of hearing of the two watchers
above, the khansaman having brought his quivering flabbiness to Desmond's side. Diggle passed
into the entrance hall, the native horsemen waiting like statues at the gate.

"It is the sahib!" whispered the shaking khansaman to Desmond: "Digli Sahib. He will kill me.
He is a tiger."

"Silence, fool!" said Desmond sternly: "there must be a way out.

"Jeldi jao {go quickly}! we shall be too late."

The man seemed glued to the spot with fear. The footsteps of Diggle could be heard in the rooms
below. In a few minutes he would reach the upper story; then it would indeed be too late to
flee. If they could gain the back staircase they might slip down and hide in the garden. But
fright appeared to have bereft the khansaman of all power of movement.

Yet Desmond, for more than one reason, was unwilling to leave him. He knew  what  Diggle's
tender mercies were; but he also knew that the khansaman, if discovered, would certainly try
to purchase his safety by betraying his companion. So, without more ado, seizing him by the
neck, Desmond shook him vigorously.

"Come!" he said in a fierce whisper, "or I shall leave you to face the sahib alone."

This summary treatment shocked the man from his stupor. Stepping on tiptoe he darted across
the room, through the door communicating with a room beyond, into a narrow passageway at the
rear of the house. Here was a second staircase leading downwards to the servants' quarters.

"Wait there," said Desmond when they were halfway down. "If you hear any one coming up, rejoin
me above."

He himself crept noiselessly back to the upper floor. No sooner had he reached the top than
he heard Diggle moving in the room he had recently left. He darted to a khashkas {a fragrant
plant whose roots are used for making screens} curtain, through the meshes of which he could
see into the two intercommunicating rooms. Diggle was carefully searching the apartment; he
clearly knew it was the one lately occupied by the ladies.

As he stooped to pick up a cushion that lay on the floor beside a divan, his eye was caught
by a scrap of crumpled paper. He snatched at it like a hawk and with quick fingers straightened
it out--the fingers of the mittened hand that Desmond knew so well. On the paper was writing;
the characters were English, but Diggle appeared to have some difficulty in making them out.

"'Your servant Surendra Nath Chuckerbutti,'" he said slowly, aloud.

"Who is Surendra Nath Chuckerbutti?" he asked his man, standing behind.

"Truly, huzur, I know not. It is a common name in Bengal--a vile Hindu; an unbeliever--"

"How did this paper come here?" cried Diggle impatiently.

"How should I know, sahib? I am a poor man, an ignorant man; I do not read--"

"Come with me and search the back of the house," said Diggle, turning away with an oath.

Desmond stepped noiselessly across the floor and joined the khansaman. They made their way
out stealthily down the stairs, through the garden at the back, into a mango grove. There they
remained hidden until Diggle, finding his search fruitless, remounted with his men and galloped
away.

Desmond felt in a maze of bewilderment. It was clear that Diggle was ignorant of the whereabouts
of the ladies; where had they been spirited to, and by whom? Apparently there had been an attack
on the house, and they had been carried away: was it by friends or foes? What was the meaning
of the paper found by Diggle? Had the Babu had any hand in the latest disappearance, or was
it his letter that had put someone else on their track? Desmond had heard nothing of Surendra
Nath or his father since the sack of Calcutta.

There  was no clue to the solution of the problem. Meanwhile it was necessary to get back to
Calcutta. The journey had been delayed too long already, and Hossain's employer, the grain
merchant, would have good reason for complaint if he felt that his business was being neglected.

"We must go, khansaman," said Desmond in sudden determination.

The  man was nothing loath. They returned by the way they had come. Desmond left the man some
distance short of Sinfray's house, promising, in return for his assistance, to use his best
offices with the irate manjhi {steersman} on his behalf. Then he struck off for the point lower
down the river where his boat was moored. As soon as he arrived they got under way, and late
that evening reached Tanna Fort, where they had to deliver their cargo of rice for the use
of the Nawab's garrison.

In the dead of night they were surprised by a visit from Hubbo, the serang's brother. He had
seen them as they passed from one of the sloops that lay in the river opposite the fort. Though
chief in command of the Nawab's  vessels  at that point, he was still secretly loyal to the
Company, and was anxious to serve their interests to the best of his power.

He had now brought important news. The three sloops and two brigantines that lay off the fort
were, he said, filled with earth. On the approach of  Admiral Watson's fleet they were to be
scuttled and sunk in the fairway. A subahdar {equivalent to colonel of infantry} of Manik Chand's
force was at present on board one of the sloops, to superintend the work of scuttling. The
signal would be given by the subahdar himself from his sloop.

"Very well, Hubbo," said Desmond, "that signal must not be given."

"But how prevent it, sahib? I wish well to the Company; have I not eaten their salt? But what
can one man do against many? The subahdar is a very fierce man; very zabburdasti {masterful}.
When he gives the word it will be death to disobey."

Desmond sat for some time with his chin in his hands, thinking. Then he asked:

"Do you know where the British fleet is at present?"

"Yes, sahib. I was in the bazaar today; it was said that this morning the ships were still
at Fulta. The sepoys are recovering from the privations of the voyage."

"We shall drop down the river tomorrow as soon as we have unloaded our cargo. You may expect
us back ahead of the fleet, so keep a good lookout for us. I shall take care that Mr. Drake
is informed of your fidelity, and you will certainly be well rewarded."

Early in the morning the cargo was unloaded; then, under pretense of taking in goods at Mayapur,
the petala dropped down the river and gained Fulta under cover of night.

Next morning Desmond, having resumed his ordinary attire, sought an interview with Clive.

"The very man I wished to see," said Clive, shaking hands. "Your scouting is  the  one  ray
of light in the darkness that covers the enemy's arrangements. You have done remarkably well,
and I take it you would not be here unless you had something to tell me."

Desmond gave briefly the information he had learned from Hubbo.

"That's the game, is it?" said Clive. "A pretty scheme, egad! 'Twill be fatal to us if carried
out. 'Twould put a spoke in the admiral's wheel and throw all the work on the land force. That's
weak enough, what with Mr. Killpatrick's men dying off every day--he has only thirty left--and
my own Sepoys mostly skeletons. And we haven't proved ourselves against the Nawab's troops;
I suppose they outnumber us thirty to one, and after their success at Calcutta they'll be very
cock-a-hoop. Yet 'tis so easy to sink a few ships, especially if preparations have been made
long in advance, as appears to be the case."

"I think, sir, it might be prevented."

Clive, who had been pacing up and down in some perturbation of mind, his head bent, his hands
clasped behind him, halted, looked up sharply, and said:

"Indeed! How?"

"If we could get hold of the subahdar."

"By bribing him? He might not be open to bribery. Most of these native officials are, but there
are some honest men among them, and he may be one.  He wouldn't have been selected for his
job unless Manik Chand thought  him  trustworthy.  Besides,  how  are we going to get into
communication with him? And even if we did, and filled him to the brim with  rupees, how are
we to know he wouldn't sell us in turn to the enemy?"

"But there are other ways, sir. We can depend on Hubbo, and if I might suggest, it would pay
to promise him a rich reward if he managed to keep the passage clear."

"Yes, I agree. What reward would be most effective?"

"A few hundred rupees and the post of syr serang in the Company's service when Calcutta is
retaken."

"Not too extravagant! Well, I shall see Mr. Drake; the offer had better come from him and reach
Hubbo through his brother."

"And then, sir, it ought not to be impossible to secure the subahdar himself when the moment
arrives."

Clive looked at the bright eager countenance of the boy before him.

"Upon my word, my lad," he said, "I believe you can do it. How, I don't know; but you have
shown so much resource already that you may be able to help us in this fix--for fix it is,
and a bad one. 'Tis the will that counts; if one is only determined enough no difficulty is
insuperable--a lesson that our friends from Calcutta might take to heart. But have you a plan?"

"Not at present, sir. I should like to think it over; and if I can hit on anything that seems
feasible I should be glad of your leave to try."

"By all means, my lad. If you fail--well, no one will be more sorry than I, for your sake.
If you succeed, you will find that I shall not forget.

"There's  one thing I want to ask you before you go. Have you heard anything of my friend Merriman's
ladies?"

"Yes,  sir;  and,  as I suspected, Diggle is at the bottom of their disappearance."

He related the series of incidents up the river.

"Dressed like a native, was he? And looked like a risaldar {officer commanding a troop of horse}?
There's no end to that fellow's villainy. But his day of reckoning will come; I am sure of
it, and the world will be none the worse for the loss of so vile a creature. If you take my
advice you'll say nothing to Mr. Merriman of this discovery. 'Twould only unsettle the poor
man. He had better know nothing until we can either restore the ladies to him or tell him that
there is no hope."

"I don't give up hope, sir. They're alive, at any rate; and Diggle has lost them. I feel sure
we shall find them."

"God grant it, my lad."

Chapter 27: In which an officer of the Nawab disappears; and Bulger reappears.

"This will be my last trip, sahib, for my present master. He says I waste too much time on
the river. He also complains that I go to places without leave and without reason. He heard
we were at Mayapur, and wanted to know why. I made excuses, sahib; I said whatever came into
my head; but he was not satisfied, and I leave his service in a week."

"That is a pity, Hossain. Unless we are in the service of some well-known banya we cannot go
up and down the river without exciting suspicion. However, let us hope that before the week
is out the fleet will be here."

Desmond  looked  a  little  anxious. The success of his project for preventing the fouling
of the passage at Tanna Fort was more than ever doubtful. The petala was moored opposite the
Crane ghat at Calcutta, taking  in a cargo of jawar {millet} for Chandernagore. The work of
loading had been protracted to the utmost by the serang; for Desmond did not wish to leave
the neighborhood of Calcutta at the present juncture, when everything turned upon their being
on the spot at the critical moment.

While they were talking, a man who had every appearance of a respectable banya approached the
plank over which the coolies were carrying the jawer on board. He stood idly watching the work,
then moved away, and squatted on a low pile of bags which had been emptied of their contents.
For a time the serang paid no apparent heed to him; but presently, while the coolies were still
busy, he sauntered across the plank and strolling to the onlooker exchanged a salaam and squatted
beside him. Passers by might have caught a word or two about the grain market; the high prices;
the difficulties of transit; the deplorable slackness of trade; the infamous duplicity of the
Greek merchants. At last the banya rose, salaamed, and walked away.

As he did so the serang carelessly lifted the bag upon which the banya had been sitting, and,
making sure that he was not observed, picked up a tiny ball of paper scarcely bigger than a
pea. Waiting a few moments, he rose and sauntered back on board. A minute or two later the
lascar in the after part of the boat was unobtrusively examining the scrap of paper. It contained
three words and an initial:

Tomorrow about ten.--C.

A change had been made in the composition of Hossain's crew since the incident  at  Sinfray's
house. One day Desmond had found one of the Bengalis rummaging in the corner of the cabin where
he was accustomed to keep his few personal belongings. Hossain had dismissed the man on the
spot. The man saved from the river had been kept on the boat and proved a good  worker,  eager,
and willing to be of use. He was an excellent boatman,  a  handy  man generally, and, for a
Bengali, possessed of exceptional physical strength. At Desmond's suggestion Hossain offered
him the vacant place, and he at once accepted it.

Since his rescue he had shown much gratitude to Desmond. He was quick witted, and had not been
long on board before he felt that the khalasi was not quite what he appeared to be. His suspicion
was strengthened by the deference, slight but unmistakable, paid by the serang to the lascar;
for though Desmond had warned Hossain to be on his guard, the man had been unable to preserve
thoroughly the attitude of a superior to an inferior.

On receiving the short message from Clive, Desmond had a consultation with Hossain. The coolies
had finished their work and received their pay, and there was nothing unusual in the sight
of the boatmen squatting on deck before loosing their craft from its moorings.

"If we are to do what we wish to do, Hossain," said Desmond, "we shall require a third man
to help us. Shall we take Karim into our confidence?"

"That is as you please, sahib. He is a good man, and will, I think, be faithful."

"Well, send the other fellow on shore; I shall speak to the man."

The  serang  gave the second of the two Bengalis who had formed his original crew an errand
on shore. Desmond beckoned up the new man.

"Are  you willing to undertake a service of risk, for a big reward, Karim?" he asked.

The man hesitated.

"It will be worth a hundred rupees to you."

Karim's eyes sparkled; a hundred rupees represented a fortune to a man of his class; but he
still hesitated.

"Am I to be alone?" he asked at length.

"No," said Desmond; "we shall be with you."

"Hai! If the sahib"--the word slipped out unawares--"is to be there it is fixed. He is my father
and mother: did he not save me from the river? I would serve him without reward."

"That is very well. All the same the reward shall be yours--to be paid to you if we succeed,
to your family if we fail. For if we fail it will be our last day: they will certainly shoot
us. There is time to draw back."

"If the sahib is to be there I am not afraid."

"Good. You can go aft. We shall tell you later what is to be done. And remember, on this boat
I am no sahib. I am a khalasi from Gujarat."

"I shall remember--sahib."

Desmond  told  the serang that the help of the man was assured, and discussed with him the
enterprise upon which he was bent. He had given his word to Clive that the blocking of the
river should be prevented, and though the task bade fair to be difficult he was resolved not
to fail. The vessels that were to be sunk in the fairway were moored opposite the fort  at
a distance of about a ship's length from one another. The subahdar was on the sloop farthest
down the river, Hubbo on the next. With the subahdar there were three men. The signal for the
scuttling of the vessels was to be the waving of a green flag by the subahdar; this was to
be repeated by Hubbo, then by the serang on the sloop above him, and so on to the end. The
vessels were in echelon, the one highest up the river lying well over to the left bank and
nearest to the fort, the rest studding the fairway so that if they sank at their moorings it
would be impossible for a ship of any size to thread its way between them. It did not appear
that anything had been done to insure their sinking broadside to  the  current, the reason
being probably that, whatever might be attempted  with this design, the river would have its
will with the vessels as soon as they sank.

"Our only chance," said Desmond, "is to get hold of the subahdar. If we can only capture him
the rest should be easy--especially as Hubbo is on the next sloop, which screens the subahdar's
from the rest. It is out of speaking distance from the fort, too--another piece of luck for
us. I shall think things over in the night, Hossain; be sure to wake me, if I am not awake,
at least a gharri {half an hour} before dawn."

It was the first of January, 1757. At half-past seven in the morning a heavily-laden petala
was making its way slowly against the tide down the Hugli. Four men were on board; two were
rowing, one was at the helm, the fourth stood looking intently before him. The boat had passed
several vessels lying opposite Tanna Fort, at various distances from the bank, and came abreast
of the last but one. There the rowers ceased pulling at an order from the man standing, who
put his hand to his mouth and hailed the sloop.

An answer came from a man on deck inviting the caller to come on board. With a few strokes
of the oars the petala was run alongside, and Hossain joined his brother.

"Is it well, brother?" he said.

"It is well," replied Hubbo.

Desmond at the helm of the petala looked eagerly ahead at the last sloop of the line. He could
see the subahdar on deck, a somewhat portly figure in resplendent costume. A small dinghy was
passing between his vessel and the shore. It contained a number of servants, who had brought
him his breakfast from the fort. The crews of the other vessels had prepared their food on board.

After a time a dinghy was let down from Hubbo's sloop. Hubbo himself stepped into it with one
of his crew, and was rowed to the subahdar's vessel. Desmond, watching him narrowly, saw him
salaam deeply as he went on board.

"Salaam,  huzur!"  said Hubbo. "Your Excellency will pardon me, but bismillah! I have just
discovered a matter of importance. Our task, huzur, has lain much on my mind; we have never
done anything of the sort before, and seeing on yonder petala a man I know well, who has spent
many years on the kala pani, I ventured to ask if he knew what time would be needed to sink
a ship with several holes drilled in the hull."

"That depends on the size of the holes, fool!" said the subahdar with a snort.

"True, huzur; that is what the serang said. But he went on to tell me of a case like your Excellency's.
His ship was once captured by the pirates of the Sandarbands. They drilled several holes in
the hull, and rowed away, leaving my friend and several of the crew to sink with the vessel.
But the holes were not big enough. When the pirate had disappeared, the men on the ship, using
all their strength, managed to run her ashore, filled up the holes at low tide, and floated
her off when the tide came in again."

A look of concern crept over the subahdar's face as he listened. He was a man without experience
of ships, and became uneasy at the suggestion that anything might mar the execution of his
task. Manik Chand would not lightly overlook a failure.

"Hearing this, huzur," Hubbo continued, "I venture to mention the matter to your Excellency,
especially as it seemed to me, from what the serang said, that the holes drilled by the pirates
were even larger than those made by the mistris {head workmen} sent from the fort."

The subahdar looked still more concerned.

"Hai!" he exclaimed, "it is very disturbing. And there is no time to do anything; the Firangi's
ships are reported to be on their way up the river; the dogs of Kafirs {unbelievers} may be
here soon."

He bit his fingers, frowned, looked anxiously down the river, then across to the brick fort
at Tanna, then to the new mud fort at Aligarh on the other bank, as if wondering whether he
should send or signal a message to one or the other. Hubbo was silent for a moment, then he said:

"Have I the huzur's leave to speak?"

"By the twelve imams {high priests descending from Ali, the son-in-law of Mahomet}, yes! but
quickly."

"There is a mistri on board the serang's boat who is used to working in ships--a  khalasi from
Gujarat. He might do something on board your Excellency's  ship. If this vessel sank, according
to the plan, the Firangi would not be able to get aboard the others, and they would have time
to sink slowly."

"Barik allah {bravo!}! It is a good idea. Bid the mistri come aboard at once."

Hubbo sent a long hail over the water. The serang cast off the rope by which he had made fast
to the sloop, and the petala came slowly down until it was abreast of the subahdar's vessel.
Hossain, Desmond, and Karim stepped aboard, the last carrying a small box of tools. Only the
Bengali was left in the boat. All salaamed low to the subahdar.

"This, huzur, is my friend," said Hubbo, presenting his brother. "This is the mistri, and this
his assistant."

"Good!" said the subahdar. "Go down into the hold, mistri: look to the holes; if they are not
large enough make them larger, and as quickly as you can."

Desmond with Karim dived down into the hold. It was filled with earth, except where a gangway
shored up with balks of timber had been left to give access to the holes that had been drilled
and temporarily stopped. After a few words from the subahdar, Hubbo and his brother followed
Desmond below.

Half an hour later, Hubbo climbed up through the hatchway and approached the subahdar, who
was pacing the deck, giving many an anxious glance down the river.

"The mistri has bored another hole, huzur. He said the more holes the better. Perhaps your
Excellency will deign to see whether you regard it as sufficient."

"Nay, I should defile my clothes," said the subahdar, not relishing the thought of descending
into the malodorous depths.

"As your Excellency pleases," said Hubbo, salaaming.

Then  the gravity of his charge appeared to overcome the subahdar's scruples. Gathering his
robes close about him, he stepped to the hatchway and lowered himself into the hold.

"We must hasten," he said. "The ships of the Firangi may appear at any moment, and I must be
on the lookout.

"Meantime," he added to Hubbo, "you keep watch."

For a man of his build he was fairly active. Dropping on to the loose earth, he scrambled over
it towards the oil lamp by whose light the mistri and his assistant were working.

"This, huzur," said Hossain, pointing to a circular cut in the planking of the vessel, "is
the new hole. It is not yet driven through, but if your Excellency thinks it sufficient--"

The subahdar craned forward to examine it. "Khubber dar {look out}!" said Desmond in a low voice.

Hossain had only waited for this signal. He threw himself on the stooping subahdar and bore
him to the floor, at the same time stuffing a gag between  his  teeth.  In a couple of minutes
he was lying bound and helpless. His ornate garment was but little sullied. It had been stripped
from  him  by the mistri, who hastily donned it over his own scanty raiment, together with
the subahdar's turban.

"How will that do, Hossain?" asked Desmond with a smile.

The serang held up the oil lamp to inspect him. With his other hand he slightly altered the
set of the turban and rearranged the folds of the robe.

"That is excellent, sahib," he said. "A little more girth would perhaps have been better, but
in the distance no one will notice."

Then calling to Hubbo, he said that all was ready. Hossain clambered through the hatchway,
leaving Desmond concealed behind a large timber upright, supporting the deck. As soon as the
serang had reached his side, Hubbo called to the men on watch and said:

"Hai, Ali, Chedi, come here!"

"Jo hukm {as ordered}!" replied one of the men. Two of the three hurried aft, and at Hubbo's
bidding, swung down into the hold. The serang ordered them to go towards the lamp. They groped
their way in that direction; Desmond sprang up through the hatchway; it was clapped down and
firmly secured, and the subahdar with two-thirds of his crew was a prisoner in the hold. The
third man at the far end of the boat had not seen or heard anything of what had happened.

So far the plot had succeeded admirably. Whatever order might reach the waiting vessels, it
would not be given by the subahdar. The question now was, how to prevent the men in charge
of the vessels and the authorities in  Tanna  Fort  from  becoming suspicious. The latter would
not be difficult. Manik Chand would gain nothing by blocking the fairway unless it were absolutely
necessary to do so, and, in common with other of the Nawab's lieutenants, he had an overweening
confidence in the power of the forts to repel an attack from the English ships. For this reason
it was advisable to make the minds of the other men easy, and Desmond soon hit on a plan.

"You had better return to your sloop, Hubbo," he said. "Send a message to the men on the other
vessels that I--the subahdar, you know--have made up my mind to allow one of the enemy's ships
to pass me before giving the signal. I shall thus capture one at least, and it may be the admiral's."

Hubbo set off, and when he reached his own vessel he sent a boat with a message to each of
the ships in turn. Meanwhile, thinking the appearance of a petala alongside of the subahdar's
sloop might awaken suspicion or at least curiosity in the fort, Desmond decided to send it
down the river in charge of Hossain. He was thus left alone on deck with the subahdar's third man.

For a time the man, standing far forward, was unaware of the striking change in the personality
garbed in the subahdar's clothes. But glancing back at length, he started, looked a second
time, and after a moment's hesitation walked down the deck.

"Go back to your post," said Desmond sternly, "and see that you keep a good lookout for the
Firangi's ships."

The man salaamed and returned to the prow in manifest bewilderment. More than  once he looked
back as he heard strange knockings from below. Desmond only smiled. If the sound was heard
from the forts, it would be regarded merely as a sign that the preparations for sinking the
vessel were not yet completed.

Time passed on, and ever and anon Desmond looked eagerly down the river for a sign of the oncoming
fleet. At last, somewhere about midday, he observed signs of excitement in Tanna Fort, and
almost simultaneously saw a puff of smoke and heard a report from one of its guns.

Shortly afterwards he observed the spars of a British-built ship slowly approaching upstream.
In full confidence that the scheme for blocking the river was now frustrated, he awaited with
patience the oncoming of the fleet, wondering whether the forts would make a determined resistance.

Slowly the vessel drew nearer. Another shot was fired from the fort, with what result Desmond
could not tell. But immediately afterwards he heard the distant report of a heavy gun, followed
by a crash near at hand, and a babel of yells. A shot from the British ship had plumped right
in the center  of  Tanna  Fort.  At the same moment Desmond recognized the figurehead.

"'Tis the Tyger!" he said to himself with a smile. "Won't Captain Latham grin when he sees
me in this rig!"

Then he laughed aloud, for the valiant defenders of Tanna Fort had not waited for a second
shot. They were swarming helter skelter out of harm's way, rushing at the top of their speed
up the river and leaving their fortress to its fate. On the other bank the garrison of Aligarh
Fort had also taken flight, and were streaming along with excited cries in the direction of
Calcutta.

The man in the bows of the sloop looked amazedly at the new subahdar. Why did he laugh? Why
did he not wave the green flag that lay at his hand? When were the men who had gone below going
to knock out the stoppings of the holes and take to the boat with himself and their commander?
But the subahdar still stood laughing.

All at once Desmond, remembering the real subahdar below, asked himself: what if he drove out
the bungs and scuttled the vessel? But the question brought a smile to his lips. He could not
conceive of the Bengali's playing such a heroic part, and he possessed his soul in peace.

Now  the  Tyger  was  in full sight, and behind her Desmond saw the well-remembered Kent, Admiral
Watson's flagship. The stampede from the forts had evidently been observed on board, for firing
had ceased, and boats were already being lowered and filled with men.

Desmond waited. The Tyger's boats, he saw, were making for Tanna Fort: the Kent's for Aligarh.
But one of the latter was heading straight for the sloop. Desmond could not resist the temptation
to a joke. Making himself look as important as he could, he stood by the gunwale watching with
an air of dignity the oncoming of the boat. It was in command of a young lieutenant. The men
bent to their oars with a will, and Desmond could soon hear the voice of the officer as he
called to his crew.

But his amusement was mingled with amazement and delight when, in the big form sitting in the
bow of the boat, he recognized no other than his old messmate, his old comrade in the Fight
of the Carts--William Bulger. The joke would be even better than he had expected.

The boat drew closer: it was level with the nose of the sloop; and the lieutenant sang out
the command, "Ship oars!" It came alongside.

"Bulger," cried the lieutenant, "skip aboard and announce us to that old peacock up on deck."

"Ay, ay, sir," replied Bulger, "which his feathers will be plucked, or my name en't Bulger."

At the side of the sloop lay the dinghy intended to convey the subahdar and his men ashore
when the work of sinking had been started. It was made fast to the vessel by a rope. Bulger
sprang into the dinghy and then began an ascent so clever, and at the same time so comical,
that Desmond had much ado not to spoil his joke by a premature explosion of laughter. The burly
seaman swarmed up the rope like a monkey, clasping it with his legs as he took each upward
grip. But the comedy of his actions was provided by his hook. Having only one arm--an arm,
it is true, with the biceps of a giant--he could not clutch the rope in the ordinary way. But
at each successive spring he dug his hook into the side of the vessel, and mounted with amazing
rapidity, talking to himself all the time.

"Avast, there!" he shouted, as with a final heave upon the hook dug into the gunwale he hoisted
himself on deck. "Haul down your colors, matey, which they make a pretty pictur', they do."

He came overpoweringly towards Desmond, his arm and stump spread wide as if to embrace him.

"I  may  be  wrong,"  said Desmond, "but have I not the pleasure of addressing Mr. William Bulger?"

Bulger started as if shot. His broad face spelled first blank amazement, then incredulity,
then surprised belief. Spreading his legs wide and bending his knees, he rested his hand on
one and his hook on the other, shut one eye, and stuck his tongue out at the corner of his mouth.

"By the Dutchman!" he exclaimed, "if it don't beat cock fighting! Sure, 'tis Mr. Burke himself!
Anna Maria! But for why did you go for to make yourself sich a Guy Faux guy, sir?"

"How  are you, old fellow?" said Desmond heartily. "I am a bit of a scarecrow, no doubt, but
we've won the trick, man. The real guy is down below, dead from fright by this time, I expect.

"Sorry  to give you the trouble of boarding, sir," he added, as the lieutenant came over the
side. "If you'll take me into your boat I'll be glad to report to the admiral or to Colonel Clive."

"By jimmy, Mr. Burke!" said the lieutenant, laughing, "you've got a way of your own of popping
up at odd times and in odd places. Come with me, by all means--just as you are, if you please.
The admiral wouldn't miss the look of you for anything. By George! 'tis a rare bit of play
acting. Did I hear you say you've got some natives under hatchways?"

"Yes; the owner of this finery is below with two of his men. You can hear him now."

There was a violent and sustained knocking below deck.

"I'll send my man to release him. The fleet are all coming up, sir?"

"Yes; the Bridgewater and Kingfisher are close in our wake. Come along; we'll catch the admiral
before he goes ashore."

Desmond received a warm welcome both from Admiral Watson and Colonel Clive. His account of
the manner in which he had defeated Manik Chand's scheme for blocking the river was received
with shouts of laughter, while his ingenuity and courage were warmly commended by both officers.
Indeed, the admiral, always more impulsive than Clive, offered him on the spot a lieutenancy
in the fleet, and was not very well pleased when Desmond politely declined the honor. He caught
a gleam of approval in Clive's eyes, and later in the day, when he saw his hero alone, he felt
well rewarded.

"A naval lieutenant ranks higher than a lieutenant in the army--I suppose you know that, Burke?"
said Clive.

"Yes, sir."

"And you're only a cadet. From today you are a lieutenant, my lad. I am pleased with you, and
whatever his enemies say of Bob Clive, no one ever said of him that he forgot a friend."

The forces proceeded to Calcutta next day, and retook the town with surprising ease. Manik
Chand was so much alarmed by seeing the effect of the big guns of the fleet that he abandoned
the place almost without striking a blow, and when the British troops entered they were too
late even to make any prisoners save a few of the ragtag and bobtail in the rear.

Mr. Merriman returned to Calcutta a few days later. Desmond was grieved to observe how rapidly
he was aging. In spite of Clive's recommendation to keep silence he could not refrain from
telling his friend what he had discovered about the missing ladies; and he did not regret it,
for the knowledge that they were alive and, when last heard of, out of Peloti's clutches, acted
like a tonic. Merriman was all eagerness to set off and search for them himself; but Desmond
pointed out the danger of such a course,  and he reluctantly agreed to wait a little longer,
and see whether any news could be obtained during the operations which Clive was planning against
the Nawab.

Meanwhile, Desmond learned from Bulger what had happened to him since the fall of Calcutta.
He was one of the hundred and forty-six thrown into the Black Hole.

"'Tis  only  by  the mercy of the Almighty I'm here today," he said solemnly. "I saw what 'twould
be as soon as the door of that Black Hole was locked, and me and some others tried to force
it. 'Tweren't no good. Mr. Holwell--he's a brave man, an' no mistake--begged an' prayed of
us all to be quiet; but Lor' bless you, he might ha' saved his breath. 'Twas a hot night; we
soon began to sweat most horrible an' feel a ragin' thirst. We took off most of our clothes,
an' waved our hats to set the air a-movin'; which 'twas hard enough work, 'cos we was packed
so tight. I en't a-goin' to tell you all the horrors o' that night, sir; I'd like uncommon
to forget 'em, though I don't believe I never shall. 'Twas so awful that many a poor wretch
begged of the Moors outside to fire on 'em. Worst was when the old jamadar put skins o' water
in at the window. My God! them about me fought like demons, which if I hadn't flattened myself
against the wall I should ha' been crushed or trodden to death, like most on 'em. For me, I
couldn't get near the water; I sucked my shirt sleeves, an' 'tis my belief 'twas on'y that
saved me from goin' mad. A man what was next me took out his knife an' slit a vein, 'cos he
couldn't bear the agony no longer. Soon arter, I fell in a dead faint, an' knowed no more till
I found myself on my back outside, with a Moor chuckin' water at me. They let me go, along
with some others; and a rotten old hulk I was, there en't no mistake about that. Why, bless
you, my skin come out all boils as thick as barnacles on a hull arter a six months' voyage,
all 'cos o' being in sich bad air without water. And then the fever came aboard, an' somehow
or other I got shipped to the mounseers' hospital at Chandernagore, which they was very kind
to me, sir; there en't no denyin' that. I may be wrong, but I could take my oath, haffidavy,
an' solemn will an' testament that a mounseer's got a heart inside of his body arter all, which
makes him all the better chap to have a slap at if you come to think of the why an' wherefore
of it."

"But how came you on board the Tyger?"

"Well, when my boils was gone an' the fever slung overboard, I got down to Fulta an' held on
the slack there; an' when the ships come up, they sent for me, 'cos havin' sailed up an' down
the river many a time, they thought as how I could do a bit o' pilotin', there not bein' enough
Dutch pilots to go round. An' I ha' had some fun, too, which I wonder I can laugh arter that
Black Hole and all. By thunder! 'tis a merry sight to see the Moors run. The very look of a
cutlass a'most turns 'un white, and they well-nigh drops down dead if they see a sailor man.
Why, t'other day at Budge Budge--they ought to call it Fudge Fudge now, seems to me--the Jack
tars went ashore about nightfall to help the lobsters storm the fort in the dark. But Colonel
Clive he was dog tired, an' went to his bed, sayin' as how he'd lead a boardin' party in the
mornin'. That warn't exactly beans an' bacon; nary a man but would ha' took a big dose o' fever
if they'd laid out on the fields all night.

"Anyways, somewhere about eleven, an' pitch dark, a Jack which his name is Strahan--a Scotchman,
by what they say--went off all alone by himself, to have a sort of private peep at that there
fort. He was pretty well filled up wi' grog, or pr'aps he wouldn't ha' been quite so venturesome.
Well, he waded up to his chin in a ditch o' mud what goes round the fort, with his pistols
above his head. When he gets over, bang goes one pistol, an'  he  sets  up  a  shout:  'One
and  all, my boys! one and all, hurray!'--a-dreamin' I s'pose as he was captain of a boardin'
party an a crew o' swabs behind him. Up he goes, up the bastion; bang goes t'other pistol;
then he outs with his cutlass, a-roarin' hurray with a voice like a twelve pounder; down goes
three o' them Moors; another breaks Jack's cutlass with his simitar; bless you, what's he care?
don't care a straw, which his name is Strahan; he've got a fist, he have, an' he dashes it
in the Moor's face, collars his simitar, cuts his throat and sings out, 'Ho, mateys! this 'ere
fort's mine!'

"Up comes three or four of his mates what heard his voice; they swings round the cannon on
the bastion an' turns it on the enemy; bang! bang! and bless your heart, the Moors cut and
run, an' the fort was ourn."

At the moment Desmond thought that Bulger was drawing the long bow. But meeting Captain Speke
of the Kent a little later, he asked how much truth there was in the story.

"'Tis all true," said the captain, laughing, "but not the whole truth. The  day after Strahan's
mad performance the admiral sends for him: discipline must be maintained, you know. 'What's
this I hear about you?' says Mr. Watson, with a face of thunder. Strahan bobbed, and scratched
his head, and twirled his hat in his hand, and says: 'Why to be sure, sir, 'twas I took the
fort, and I hope there ain't no harm in it!' By George! 'twas as much as the admiral could
do to keep a straight face. He got the fellow to tell us about it: we had our faces in our
handkerchiefs all the time. Then Mr. Watson gave him a pretty rough wigging, and wound up by
saying that he'd consult me as to the number of lashes to be laid on.

"You should have seen the fellow's face! As he went out of the cabin I heard him mutter: 'Well,
if I'm to be flogged for this 'ere haction, be hanged if I ever take another fort alone by
myself as long as I live!'"

"Surely he wasn't flogged?" said Desmond, laughing heartily.

"Oh, no! Mr. Watson told us as a matter of form to put in a plea for the fellow, and then condescended
to let him off. Pity he's such a loose fish!"

