'Farewell, then,' said the Baron, wringing the minister's hand, and adding, almost to himself,
'Alas! I am weary of these shifts!' and weary indeed he seemed, for as the ground became so
steep that the beck danced noisily down its channel, he could not keep up the needful speed,
but paused, gasping for breath, with his hand on his side. 'Beranger was off his pony in an
instant, assuring Follet that it ought to be proud to be ridden by his father, and exhaling
his own exultant feelings in caresses to the animal as it gallantly breasted the hill. The
little boy had never been so commended before! He loved his father exceedingly; but the Baron,
while ever just towards him, was grave and strict to a degree that the ideas even of the sixteenth
century regarded as severe. Little Eustacie with her lovely face, her irrepressible saucy grace
and audacious coaxing, was the only creature to whom he ever showed much indulgence and tenderness,
and even that seemed almost against his will and conscience. His son was always under rule,
often blamed, and scarcely ever praised; but it was a hardy vigorous nature, and respectful
love throve under the system that would have crushed or alienated a different disposition.
It was not till the party had emerged from the wood upon a stubble field, where a covey of
partridges flew up, and to Beranger's rapturous delight furnished a victim for Ysonde, that
M. de Ribaumont dismounted from the pony, and walking towards home, called his son to his side,
and asked him how he had learnt the intentions of the Count and the Chevalier. Beranger explained
how Eustacie had come to warn him, and also told what she had said of Diane de Ribaumont, who
had lately, by her father's request, spent a few weeks at the chateau with her cousins.

'My son,' said the Baron, 'it is hard to ask of babes caution and secrecy; but I must know
from thee what thy cousin may have heard of our doings?'

'I cannot tell, father,' replied Beranger; 'we played more than we talked. Yet, Monsieur, you
will not be angry with Eustacie if I tell you what she said to me to-day?'

'Assuredly not, my son.'

'She said that her father would take her away if he knew what M. le Baron read, and what he sung.'

'Thou hast done well to tell me, my son. Thinkest thou that this comes from Diane, or from
one of the servants?'

'Oh, from Diane, my father; none of the servants would dare to say such a thing.'

'It is as I suspected then,' said the Baron. 'That child was sent amongst us as a spy.' Tell
me, Beranger, had she any knowledge of our intended journey to England?'

'To England! But no, father, I did not even know it was intended. To England--to that Walwyn
which my mother takes such pains to make us speak rightly. Are we then, going?'

'Listen, my son. Thou hast to-day proved thyself worthy of trust, and thou shalt hear. My son,
ere yet I knew the truth I was a reckless disobedient youth, and I bore thy mother from her
parents in England without their consent. Since, by Heaven's grace, I have come to a better
mind, we have asked and obtained their forgiveness, and it has long been their desire to see
again their daughter and her son. Moreover, since the accession of the present Queen, it has
been a land where the light is free to shine forth; and though I verily believe what Maitre
Gardon says, that persecution is a blessed means of grace, yet it is grievous to expose one's
dearest thereto when they are in no state to count the cost. Therefore would I thither convey
you all, and there amid thy mother's family would we openly abjure the errors in which we have
been nurture. I have already sent to Paris to obtain from the Queen-mother the necessary permission
to take my family to visit thy grand-father, and it must now be our endeavour to start immediately
on the receipt of the reply, before the Chevalier's information can lead to any hindrance or
detention of Eustacie.'

'Then Eustacie will go with us, Monsieur?'

'Certainly. Nothing is more important than that her faith should be the same as yours! But
discretion, my son: not a word to the little one.'

'And Landry, father? I had rather Landry went than Eustacie. And Follet, dear father, pray
take him.'

After M. de Ribaumont's grave confidence to his son and heir, he was a little scandalized at
the comparative value that the boy's voice indicated for wife, foster-brother, and pony, and
therefore received it in perfect silence, which silence continued until they reached the chateau,
where the lady met them at the door with a burst of exclamations.

'Ah, there you are, safe, my dear Baron. I have been in despair. Here were the Count and his
brother come to call on you to join them in dispersing a meeting of those poor Huguenots and
they would not permit me to send out to call you in! I verily think they suspected that you
were aware of it.'

M. de Ribaumont made no answer, but sat wearily down and asked for his little Eustacie.

'Little vixen!' exclaimed the Baroness, 'she is gone; her father took her away with him.' And
as her husband looked extremely displeased, she added that Eustacie had been meddling with
her jewel cabinet and had been put in penitence. Her first impulse on seeing her father had
been to cling to him and poor out her complaints, whereupon he had declared that he should
take her away with him at once, and had in effect caused her pony to be saddled, and he had
ridden away with her to his old tower, leaving his brother, the Chevalier, to conduct the attack
on the Huguenot conventicle.

'He had no power or right to remove her,' said the Baron. 'How could you let him do so in my
absence? He had made over her wardship to me, and has no right to resume it!'

'Well, perhaps I might have insisted on his waiting till your return; but, you see, the children
have never done anything but quarrel and fight, and always by Eustacie's fault; and if ever
they are to endure each other, it must be by being separated now.'

'Madame,' said the Baron, gravely, 'you have done your utmost to ruin your son's chances of
happiness.'

That same evening arrived the King's passport permitting the Baron de Ribaumont and his family
to pay a visit to his wife's friends in England. The next morning the Baron was summoned to
speak to one of his farmers, a Huguenot, who had come to inform him that, through the network
of intelligence kept up by the members of the persecuted faith, it had become known that the
Chevalier de Ribaumont had set off for court that night, and there was little doubt that his
interference would lead to an immediate revocation of the sanction to the journey, if to no
severer measures. At best, the Baron knew that if his own absence were permitted, it would
be only on condition of leaving his son in the custody of either the Queen-mother or the Count.
It had become impossible to reclaim Eustacie. Her father would at once have pleaded that she
was being bred up in Huguenot errors. All that could be done was to hasten the departure ere
the royal mandate could arrive. A little Norman sailing vessel was moored two evenings after
in a lonely creek on the coast, and into it stepped M. de Ribaumont, with his Bible, Marot's
Psalter, and Calvin's works, Beranger still tenderly kissing a lock of Follet's mane, and Madame
mourning for the pearls, which her husband deemed too sacred an heirloom to carry away to a
foreign land. Poor little Eustacie, with her cousin Diane, was in the convent of Bellaise in
Anjou. If any one lamented her absence, it was her father-in-law.

CHAPTER III. THE FAMILY COUNCIL

     He counsels a divorce
            Shakespeare, KING HENRY VIII.

In the spring of the year 1572, a family council was assembled in Hurst Walwyn Hall. The scene
was a wainscoted oriel chamber closed off by a screen from the great hall, and fitted on two
sides by presses of books, surmounted the one by a terrestrial, the other by a celestial globe,
the first 'with the addition of the Indies' in very eccentric geography, the second with enormous
stars studding highly grotesque figures, regarded with great awe by most beholders.

A solid oaken table stood in the midst, laden with books and papers, and in a corner, near
the open hearth, a carved desk, bearing on one slope the largest copy of the 'Bishops' Bible';
on the other, one of the Prayer-book. The ornaments of the oaken mantelpiece culminated in
a shield bearing a cross boutonnee, i.e. with trefoil terminations. It was supported between
a merman with a whelk shell and a mermaid with a comb, and another like Siren curled her tail
on the top of the gaping baronial helmet above the shield, while two more upheld the main weight
of the chimney-piece on either side of the glowing wood-fire.

In the seat of honour was an old gentleman, white-haired, and feeble of limb, but with noble
features and a keen, acute eye. This was Sir William, Baron of Hurst Walwyn, a valiant knight
at Guingate and Boulogne, a statesman of whom Wolsey had been jealous, and a ripe scholar who
had shared the friendship of More and Erasmus. The lady who sat opposite to him was several
years younger, still upright, brisk and active, though her hair was milk-white; but her eyes
were of undimmed azure, and her complexion still retained a beauteous pink and white. She was
highly educated, and had been the friend of Margaret Roper and her sisters, often sharing their
walks in the bright Chelsea garden. Indeed, the musk-rose in her own favourite nook at Hurst
Walwyn was cherished as the gift of Sir Thomas himself.

Near her sat sister, Cecily St. John, a professed nun at Romsey till her twenty-eight year,
when, in the dispersion of convents, her sister's home had received her. There had she continued,
never exposed to tests of opinion, but pursuing her quiet course according to her Benedictine
rule, faithfully keeping her vows, and following the guidance of the chaplain, a college friend
of Bishop Ridley, and rejoicing in the use of the vernacular prayers and Scriptures. When Queen
Mary had sent for her to consider of the revival of convents, her views had been found to have
so far diverged from those of the Queen that Lord Walwyn was thankful to have her safe at home
again; and yet she fancied herself firm to old Romsey doctrine. She was not learned, like Lady
Walwyn, but her knowledge in all needlework and confectionery was consummate, so that half
the ladies in Dorset and Wilts longed to send their daughters to be educated at Hurst Walwyn.
Her small figure and soft cheeks had the gentle contour of a dove's form, nor had she lost
the conventual serenity of expression; indeed it was curious that, let Lady Walwyn array her
as she would, whatever she wore bore a nunlike air. Her silken farthingales hung like serge
robes, her ruffs looked like mufflers, her coifs like hoods, even necklaces seemed rosaries,
and her scrupulous neatness enhanced the pure unearthly air of all belonging to her.

Eager and lively, fair and handsome, sat the Baronne de Ribaumont, or rather, since the higher
title had been laid aside, Dame Annora Thistlewood. The health of M. de Ribaumont had been
shattered at St. Quentin, and an inclement night of crossing the Channel had brought on an
attack on the lungs, from which he only rallied enough to amaze his English friends at finding
the gay dissipated young Frenchman they remembered, infinitely more strict and rigid than themselves.
He was never able to leave the house again after his first arrival at Hurst Walwyn, and sank
under the cold winds of the next spring, rejoicing to leave his wife and son, not indeed among
such strict Puritans as he preferred, but at least where the pure faith could be openly avowed
without danger.

Sir Marmaduke Thistlewood, the husband to whom Annora Walwyn had been destined before M. de
Ribaumont had crossed her path, was about the same time left a widower with one son and daughter,
and as soon as a suitable interval had passed, she became a far happier wife than she had been
in either the Baron's gay or grave days. Her son had continued under the roof of his grandfather,
to whose charge his father had specially committed him, and thus had been scarcely separated
from his mother, since Combe Manor was not above three miles across the downs from Hurst Walwyn,
and there was almost daily intercourse between the families. Lucy Thistlewood had been brought
to Hurst Walwyn to be something between a maid of honour and a pupil to the ladies there, and
her brother Philip, so soon as he was old enough, daily rode thither to share with Berenger
the instructions of the chaplain, Mr. Adderley, who on the present occasion formed one of the
conclave, sitting a little apart as not quite familiar, though highly esteemed.

With an elbow on the table, and one hand toying with his long riding-whip, sat, booted and
spurred, the jovial figure of Sir Marmaduke, who called out, in his hearty voice, 'A good riddance
of an outlandish Papist, say I! Read the letter, Berenger lad. No, no, no! English it! I know
nothing of your mincing French! 'Tis the worst fault I know in you, boy, to be half a Frenchman,
and have a French name'--a fault that good Sir Marmaduke did his best to remedy by always terming
his step-son Berenger or Berry Ribmount, and we will so far follow his example as henceforth
to give the youth the English form of his Christian name. He was by this time a tall lad of
eighteen, with straight features, honest deep blue eyes, very fair hair cut short and brushed
up to a crest upon the middle of his head, a complexion of red and white that all the air of
the downs and the sea failed to embrown, and that peculiar openness and candour of expression
which seems so much an English birthright, that the only trace of his French origin was, that
he betrayed no unbecoming awkwardness in the somewhat embarrassing position in which he was
placed, literally standing, according to the respectful discipline of the time, as the subject
of discussion, before the circle of his elders. His colour was indeed, deepened, but his attitude
was easy and graceful, and he used no stiff rigidity nor restless movements to mask his anxiety.
At Sir Marmaduke's desire, he could not but redden a good deal more, but with a clear, unhesitating
voice, he translated, the letter that he had received from the Chevalier de Ribaumont, who,
by the Count's death, had become Eustacie's guardian. It was a request in the name of Eustacie
and her deceased father, that Monsieur le Baron de Ribaumont--who, it was understood, had embraced
the English heresy--would concur with his spouse in demanding from his Holiness the Pope a
decree annulling the childish marriage, which could easily be declared void, both on account
of the consanguinity of the parties and the discrepancy of their faith; and which would leave
each of them free to marry again.

'Nothing can be better,' exclaimed his mother. 'How I have longed to free him from that little
shrew, whose tricks were the plague of my life! Now there is nothing between him and a worthy
match!'

'We can make an Englishman of him now to the backbone,' added Sir Marmaduke, 'and it is well
that it should be the lady herself who wants first to be off with it, so that none can say
he has played her a scurvy trick.'

'What say you, Berenger?' said Lord Walwyn. 'Listen to me, fair nephew. You know that all my
remnant of hope is fixed upon you, and that I have looked to setting you in the room of the
son of my own; and I think that under our good Queen you will find it easier to lead a quiet
God-fearing life than in your father's vexed country, where the Reformed religion lies under
persecution. Natheless, being a born liegeman of the King of France, and heir to estates in
his kingdom, meseemeth that before you are come to years of discretion it were well that you
should visit them, and become better able to judge for yourself how to deal in this matter
when you shall have attained full age, and may be able to dispose of them by sale, thus freeing
yourself from allegiance to a foreign prince. And at the same time you can take measures, in
concert with this young lady, for loosing the wedlock so unhappily contracted.'

'O sir, sir!' cried Lady Thistlewood, 'send him not to France to be burnt by the Papists!'

'Peace, daughter,' returned her mother. 'Know you not that there is friendship between the
court party and the Huguenots, and that the peace is to be sealed by the marriage of the King's
sister with the King of Navarre? This is the most suitable time at which he could go.'

'Then, madam,' proceeded the lady, 'he will be running about to all the preachings on every
bleak moor and wet morass he can find, catching his death with rheums, like his poor father.'

There was a general smile, and Sir Marmaduke laughed outright.

'Nay, dame,' he said, 'have you marked such a greed of sermons in our Berry that you should
fear his so untowardly running after them?'

'Tilly-vally, Sir Duke,' quoth Dame Annora, with a flirt of her fan, learnt at the French court.
'Men will run after a preacher in a marshy bog out of pure forwardness, when they will nod
at a godly homily on a well-stuffed bench between four walls.'

'I shall commit that matter to Mr. Adderley, who is good enough to accompany him,' said Lord
Walwyn, 'and by whose counsel I trust that he will steer the middle course between the pope
and Calvin.'

Mr. Adderley bowed in answer, saying he hoped that he should be enable to keep his pupil's
mind clear between the allurements of Popery and the errors of the Reformed; but meanwhile
Lady Thistlewood's mind had taken a leap, and she exclaimed,--

'And, son, whatever you do, bring home the chaplet of pearls! I know they have set their minds
upon it. They wanted me to deck Eustacie with it on that unlucky bridal-day, but I would not
hear of trusting her with it, and now will it rarely become our Lucy on your real wedding-day.'

'You travel swiftly, daughter,' said Lord Walwyn. 'Nor have we yet heard the thoughts of one
who ever thinks wisely. Sister,' he added, turning to Cecily St. John, 'hold not you with us
in this matter?'

'I scarce comprehend it, my Lord,' was the gentle reply. 'I knew not that it was possible to
dissolve the tie of wedlock.'

'The Pope's decree will suffice,' said Lord Walwyn.

'Yet, sir,' still said the ex-nun, 'methought you had shown me that the Holly Father exceeded
his power in the annulling of vows.'

'Using mine own lessons against me, sweet sister?' said Lord Walwyn, smiling; 'yet, remember,
the contract was rashly made between two ignorant babes; and, bred up as they have severally
been, it were surely best for them to be set free from vows made without their true will or
knowledge.'

'And yet,' said Cecily, perplexed, 'when I saw my niece here wedded to Sir Marmaduke, was it
not with the words, 'What God hath joined let no man put asunder'?'

'Good lack! aunt,' cried Lady Thistlewood, 'you would not have that poor lad wedded to a pert,
saucy, ill-tempered little moppet, bred up that den of iniquity, Queen Catherine's court, where
my poor Baron never trusted me after he fell in with the religion, and had heard of King Antony's
calling me the Swan of England.'

At that moment there was a loud shriek, half-laugh, half-fright, coming through the window,
and Lady Thistlewood, starting up, exclaimed, 'The child will be drowned! Box their ears, Berenger,
and bring them in directly.'

Berenger, at her bidding, hurried out of the room into the hall, and thence down a flight of
steps leading into a square walled garden, with a couple of stone male and female marine divinities
accommodating their fishy extremities as best they might on the corners of the wall. The square
contained a bowling-green of exquisitely-kept turf, that looked as if cut out of green velvet,
and was edged on its four sides by a raised broad-paved walk, with a trimming of flower-beds,
where the earliest blossoms were showing themselves. In the centre of each side another paved
path intersected the green lawn, and the meeting of these two diameters was at a circular stone
basin, presided over by another merman, blowing a conch on the top of a pile of rocks. On the
gravelled margin stood two distressed little damsels of seven and six years old, remonstrating
with all their might against the proceedings of a roguish-looking boy of fourteen of fifteen,
who had perched their junior--a fat, fair, kitten-like element of mischief, aged about five--en
croupe on the merman, and was about, according to her delighted request, to make her a bower
of water, by extracting the plug and setting the fountain to play; but as the fountain had
been still all the winter, the plug was hard of extraction, especially to a young gentleman
who stood insecurely, with his feet wide apart upon pointed and slippery point of rock-work;
and Berenger had time to hurry up, exclaiming, 'Giddy pate! Dolly would Berenger drenched to
the skin.'

'And she has on her best blue, made out of mother's French farthingale,' cried the discreet Annora.

'Do you know, Dolly, I've orders to box your ears, and send you in?' added Berenger, as he
lifted his half-sister from her perilous position, speaking, as he did so, without a shade
of foreign accent, though with much more rapid utterance than was usual in England. She clung
to him without much alarm, and retaliated by an endeavour to box his ears, while Philip, slowly
making his way back to the mainland, exclaimed, 'Ah there's no chance now! Here comes demure
Mistress Lucy, and she is the worst mar-sport of all.'

A gentle girl of seventeen was drawing near, her fair delicately-tinted complexion suiting
well with her pale golden hair. It was a sweet face, and was well set off by the sky-blue of
the farthingale, which, with her white lace coif and white ruff, gave her something the air
of a speedwell flower, more especially as her expression seemed to have caught much of Cecily's
air of self-restrained contentment. She held a basketful of the orange pistils of crocuses,
and at once seeing that some riot had taken place, she said to the eldest little girl, 'Ah,
Nan, you had been safer gathering saffron with me.'

'Nay, brother Berry came and made all well,' said Annora; 'and he had been shut up so long
in the library that he must have been very glad to get out.'

'And what came of it?' cried Philip. 'Are you to go and get yourself unmarried?'

'Unmarried!' burst out the sisters Annora and Elizabeth.

'What, laughed Philip, 'you knew not that this is an ancient husband, married years before
your father and mother?'

'But, why? said Elizabeth, rather inclined to cry. 'What has poor Lucy done that you should
get yourself unmarried from her?'

There was a laugh from both brothers; but Berenger, seeing Lucy's blushes, restrained himself,
and said. 'Mine was not such good luck, Bess, but they gave me a little French wife, younger
than Dolly, and saucier still; and as she seems to wish to be quit of me, why, I shall be rid
of her.'

'See there, Dolly,' said Philip, in a warning voice, 'that is the way you'll be served if you
do not mend your ways.'

'But I thought,' said Annora gravely, 'that people were married once for all, and it could
not be undone.'

'So said Aunt Cecily, but my Lord was proving to her out of all law that a contract between
such a couple of babes went for nought,' said Berenger.

'And shall you, indeed, see Paris, and all the braveries there?' asked Philip. 'I thought my
Lord would never have trusted you out of his sight.'

'And now it is to be only with Mr. Adderley,' said Berenger; 'but there will be rare doings
to be seen at this royal wedding, and maybe I shall break a lance there in your honour, Lucy.'

'And you'll bring me a French fan?' cried Bess.

'And me a pouncet-box?' added Annora.

'And me a French puppet dressed Paris fashion?' said Dolly.

'And what shall he bring Lucy?' added Bess.

'I know,' said Annora; 'the pearls that mother is always talking about! I heard her say that
Lucy should wear them on her wedding-day.'

'Hush!' interposed Lucy, 'don't you see my father yonder on the step, beckoning to you?'

The children flew towards Sir Marmaduke, leaving Berenger and Lucy together.

'Not a word to wish me good speed, Lucy, now I have my wish?' said Berenger.

'Oh, yes,' said Lucy, 'I am glad you should see all those brave French gentlemen of whom you
used to tell me.'

'Yes, they will be all at court, and the good Admiral is said to be in high favour. He will
surely remember my father.'

'And shall you see the lady?' asked Lucy, under her breath.

'Eustacie? Probably; but that will make no change. I have heard too much of l'escadron de la
Reine-mere to endure the thought of a wife from thence, were she the Queen of Beauty herself.
And my mother says that Eustacie would lose all her beauty as she grew up--like black-eyed
Sue on the down; nor did I ever think her brown skin and fierce black eyes to compare with
you, Lucy. I could be well content never to see her more; but,' and here he lowered his voice
to a tone of confidence, 'my father, when near his death, called me, and told me that he feared
my marriage would be a cause of trouble and temptation to me, and that I must deal with it
after my conscience when I was able to judge in the matter. Something, too, he said of the
treaty of marriage being a burthen on his soul, but I know not what he meant. If ever I saw
Eustacie again, I was to give her his own copy of Clement Marot's Psalter, and to tell her
that he had ever loved and prayed for her as a daughter; and moreover, my father added,' said
Berenger, much moved at the remembrance it brought across him, 'that if this matter proved
a burthen and perplexity to me, I was to pardon him as one who repented of it as a thing done
ere he had learnt to weigh the whole world against a soul.'

'Yes, you must see her,' said Lucy.

'Well, what more were you going to say, Lucy?'

'I was only thinking,' said Lucy, as she raised her eyes to him, 'how sorry she will be that
she let them write that letter.'

Berenger laughed, pleased with the simplicity of Lucy's admiration, but with modesty and common
sense enough to answer, 'No fear of that, Lucy, for an heiress, with all the court gallants
of France at her feet.'

'Ah, but you!'

'I am all very well here, when you have never seen anybody but lubberly Dorset squires that
never went to London, nor Oxford, nor beyond their own furrows,' said Berenger; 'but depend
upon it, she has been bred up to care for all the airs and graces that are all the fashion
at Paris now, and will be as glad to be rid of an honest man and a Protestant as I shall to
be quit of a court puppet and a Papist. Shall you have finished my point-cuffs next week, Lucy?
Depend upon it, no gentleman of them all will wear such dainty lace of such a fancy as those
will be.'

And Lucy smiled, well pleased.

Coming from the companionship of Eustacie to that of gentle Lucy had been to Berenger a change
from perpetual warfareto perfect supremacy, and his preference to his little sister, as he
had been taught to call her from the first, had been loudly expressed. Brother and sister they
had ever since considered themselves, and only within the last few months had possibilities
been discussed among the elders of the family, which oozing out in some mysterious manner,
had become felt rather than known among the young people, yet without altering the habitual
terms that existed between them. Both were so young that love was the merest, vaguest dream
to them; and Lucy, in her quiet faith that Berenger was the most beautiful, excellent, and
accomplished cavalier the earth could afford, was little troubled about her own future share
in him. She seemed to be promoted to belong to him just as she had grown up to curl her hair
and wear ruffs and farthingales. And to Berenger Lucy was a very pleasant feature in that English
home, where he had been far happier than in the uncertainties of Chateau Leurre, between his
naughty playfellow, his capricious mother, and morose father. If in England his lot was to
be cast, Lucy was acquiesced in willingly as a portion of that lot.

CHAPTER IV. TITHONUS

     A youth came riding towards a palace gate,
     And from the palace came a child of sin
     And took him by the curls and led him in!
     Where sat a company with heated eyes.
                     Tennyson, A VISION OF SIN

It was in the month of June that Berenger de Ribaumont first came in sight of Paris. His grandfather
had himself begun by taking him to London and presenting him to Queen Elizabeth, from whom
the lad's good mien procured him a most favourable reception. She willingly promised that on
which Lord Walwyn's heart was set, namely, that his title and rank should be continued to his
grandson; and an ample store of letter of recommendation to Sir Francis Walsingham, the Ambassador,
and all others who could be of service in the French court, were to do their utmost to provide
him with a favourable reception there.

Then, with Mr. Adderley and four or five servants, he had crossed the Channel, and had gone
first to Chateau Leurre, where he was rapturously welcomed by the old steward Osbert. The old
man had trained up his son Landry, Berenger's foster-brother, to become his valet, and had
him taught all the arts of hair-dressing and surgery that were part of the profession of a
gentleman's body-servant; and the youth, a smart, acuter young Norman, became a valuable addition
to the suite, the guidance of which, through a foreign country, their young master did not
find very easy. Mr. Adderley thought he knew French very well, through books, but the language
he spoke was not available, and he soon fell into a state of bewilderment rather hard on his
pupil, who, though a very good boy, and crammed very full of learning, was still nothing more
than a lad of eighteen in all matters of prudence and discretion.

