"True religion, like all free governments, appeals to the understanding for its support, and
not to the sword.  All systems, whether civil or moral, can only be durable in proportion as
they are founded on truth and calculated to promote the good of mankind.  This will account
to us why governments suited to the great energies of man have always outlived the perishable
things which despotism has erected.  Yes, this will account to us why the stream of Time, which
is continually washing away the dissoluble fabrics of superstitions and impostures, passes
without injury by the adamant of Christianity.

"Those who are versed in the history of their country, in the history of the human race, must
know that rigorous state prosecutions have always preceded the era of convulsion; and this
era, I fear, will be accelerated by the folly and madness of our rulers.  If the people are
discontented, the proper mode of quieting their discontent is, not by instituting rigorous
and sanguinary prosecutions, but by redressing their wrongs and conciliating their affections.
Courts of justice, indeed, may be called in to the aid of ministerial vengeance; but if once
the purity of their proceedings is suspected, they will cease to be objects of reverence to
the nation; they will degenerate into empty and expensive pageantry, and become the partial
instruments of vexatious oppression.  Whatever may become of me, my principles will last forever.
Individuals may perish; but truth is eternal.  The rude blasts of tyranny may blow from every
quarter; but freedom is that hardy plant which will survive the tempest and strike an everlasting
root into the most unfavorable soil.

"Gentlemen, I am in your hands.  About my life I feel not the slightest anxiety: if it would
promote the cause, I would cheerfully make the sacrifice; for if I perish on an occasion like
the present, out of my ashes will arise a flame to consume the tyrants and oppressors of my
country."

Years have passed, and the generation which knew the persecuted reformers has given place to
another.  And now, half a century after William Skirving, as he rose to receive his sentence,
declared to his judges, "You may condemn us as felons, but your sentence shall yet be reversed
by the people," the names of these men are once more familiar to British lips.  The sentence
has been reversed; the prophecy of Skirving has become history.  On the 21st of the eighth
month, 1853, the corner-stone of a monument to the memory of the Scottish martyrs--for which
subscriptions had been received from such men as Lord Holland, the Dukes of Bedford and Norfolk;
and the Earls of Essex and Leicester--was laid with imposing ceremonies in the beautiful burial-place
of Calton Hill, Edinburgh, by the veteran reformer and tribune of the people, Joseph Hume,
M. P.  After delivering an appropriate address, the aged radical closed the impressive scene
by reading the prayer of Joseph Gerrald.  At the banquet which afterwards took place, and which
was presided over by John Dunlop, Esq., addresses were made by the president and Dr. Ritchie,
and by William Skirving, of Kirkaldy, son of the martyr.  The Complete Suffrage Association
of Edinburgh, to the number of five hundred, walked in procession to Calton Hill, and in the
open air proclaimed unmolested the very principles for which the martyrs of the past century
had suffered.

The account of this tribute to the memory of departed worth cannot fail to awaken in generous
hearts emotions of gratitude towards Him who has thus signally vindicated His truth, showing
that the triumph of the oppressor is but for a season, and that even in this world a lie cannot
live forever.  Well and truly did George Fox say in his last days,

                    "The truth is above all."

Will it be said, however, that this tribute comes too late; that it cannot solace those brave
hearts which, slowly broken by the long agony of colonial servitude, are now cold in strange
graves?  It is, indeed, a striking illustration of the truth that he who would benefit his
fellow- man must "walk by faith," sowing his seed in the morning, and in the evening withholding
not his hand; knowing only this, that in God's good time the harvest shall spring up and ripen,
if not for himself, yet for others, who, as they bind the full sheaves and gather in the heavy
clusters, may perchance remember him with gratitude and set up stones of memorial on the fields
of his toil and sacrifices.  We may regret that in this stage of the spirit's life the sincere
and self-denying worker is not always permitted to partake of the fruits of his toil or receive
the honors of a benefactor.  We hear his good evil spoken of, and his noblest sacrifices counted
as naught; we see him not only assailed by the wicked, but discountenanced and shunned by the
timidly good, followed on his hot and dusty pathway by the execrations of the hounding mob
and the contemptuous pity of the worldly wise and prudent; and when at last the horizon of
Time shuts down between him and ourselves, and the places which have known him know him no
more forever, we are almost ready to say with the regal voluptuary of old,  This also is vanity
and a great evil; "for what hath a man of all his labor and of the vexation of his heart wherein
he hath labored under the sun?"  But is this the end?  Has God's universe no wider limits than
the circle of the blue wall which shuts in our nestling-place?  Has life's infancy only been
provided for, and beyond this poor nursery-chamber of Time is there no playground for the soul's
youth, no broad fields for its manhood?  Perchance, could we but lift the curtains of the narrow
pinfold wherein we dwell, we might see that our poor friend and brother whose fate we have
thus deplored has by no means lost the reward of his labors, but that in new fields of duty
he is cheered even by the tardy recognition of the value of his services in the old.  The continuity
of life is never broken; the river flows onward and is lost to our sight, but under its new
horizon it carries the same waters which it gathered under ours, and its unseen valleys are
made glad by the offerings which are borne down to them from the past,--flowers, perchance,
the germs of which its own waves had planted on the banks of Time.  Who shall say that the
mournful and repentant love with which the benefactors of our race are at length regarded may
not be to them, in their new condition of being, sweet and grateful as the perfume of long-
forgotten flowers, or that our harvest-hymns of rejoicing may not reach the ears of those who
in weakness and suffering scattered the seeds of blessing?

The history of the Edinburgh reformers is no new one; it is that of all who seek to benefit
their age by rebuking its popular crimes and exposing its cherished errors.  The truths which
they told were not believed, and for that very reason were the more needed; for it is evermore
the case that the right word when first uttered is an unpopular and denied one. Hence he who
undertakes to tread the thorny pathway of reform--who, smitten with the love of truth and justice,
or indignant in view of wrong and insolent oppression, is rashly inclined to throw himself
at once into that great conflict which the Persian seer not untruly represented as a war between
light and darkness--would do well to count the cost in the outset.  If he can live for Truth
alone, and, cut off from the general sympathy, regard her service as its "own exceeding great
reward;" if he can bear to be counted a fanatic and crazy visionary; if, in all good nature,
he is ready to receive from the very objects of his solicitude abuse and obloquy in return
for disinterested and self-sacrificing efforts for their welfare; if, with his purest motives
misunderstood and his best actions perverted and distorted into crimes, he can still hold on
his way and patiently abide the hour when "the whirligig of Time shall bring about its revenges;"
if, on the whole, he is prepared to be looked upon as a sort of moral outlaw or social heretic,
under good society's interdict of food and fire; and if he is well assured that he can, through
all this, preserve his cheerfulness and faith in man,--let him gird up his loins and go forward
in God's name.  He is fitted for his vocation; he has watched all night by his armor.  Whatever
his trial may be, he is prepared; he may even be happily disappointed in respect to it; flowers
of unexpected refreshing may overhang the hedges of his strait and narrow way; but it remains
to be true that he who serves his contemporaries in faithfulness and sincerity must expect
no wages from their gratitude; for, as has been well said, there is, after all, but one way
of doing the world good, and unhappily that way the world does not like; for it consists in
telling it the very thing which it does not wish to hear.

Unhappily, in the case of the reformer, his most dangerous foes are those of his own household.
True, the world's garden has become a desert and needs renovation; but is his own little nook
weedless?  Sin abounds without; but is his own heart pure?  While smiting down the giants and
dragons which beset the outward world, are there no evil guests sitting by his own hearth-stone?
Ambition, envy, self-righteousness, impatience, dogmatism, and pride of opinion stand at his
door-way ready to enter whenever he leaves it unguarded.  Then, too, there is no small danger
of failing to discriminate between a rational philanthropy, with its adaptation of means to
ends, and that spiritual knight-errantry which undertakes the championship of every novel project
of reform, scouring the world in search of distressed schemes held in durance by common sense
and vagaries happily spellbound by ridicule.  He must learn that, although the most needful
truth may be unpopular, it does not follow that unpopularity is a proof of the truth of his
doctrines or the expediency of his measures.  He must have the liberality to admit that it
is barely possible for the public on some points to be right and himself wrong, and that the
blessing invoked upon those who suffer for righteousness is not available to such as court
persecution and invite contempt; for folly has its martyrs as well as wisdom; and he who has
nothing better to show of himself than the scars and bruises which the popular foot has left
upon him is not even sure of winning the honors of martyrdom as some compensation for the loss
of dignity and self-respect involved in the exhibition of its pains.  To the reformer, in an
especial manner, comes home the truth that whoso ruleth his own spirit is greater than he who
taketh a city.  Patience, hope, charity, watchfulness unto prayer,--how needful are all these
to his success!  Without them he is in danger of ingloriously giving up his contest with error
and prejudice at the first repulse; or, with that spiteful philanthropy which we sometimes
witness, taking a sick world by the nose, like a spoiled child, and endeavoring to force down
its throat the long-rejected nostrums prepared for its relief.

What then?  Shall we, in view of these things, call back young, generous spirits just entering
upon the perilous pathway?  God forbid!  Welcome, thrice welcome, rather.  Let them go forward,
not unwarned of the dangers nor unreminded of the pleasures which belong to the service of
humanity. Great is the consciousness of right.  Sweet is the answer of a good conscience. 
He who pays his whole-hearted homage to truth and duty, who swears his lifelong fealty on their
altars, and rises up a Nazarite consecrated to their holy service, is not without his solace
and enjoyment when, to the eyes of others, he seems the most lonely and miserable.  He breathes
an atmosphere which the multitude know not of; "a serene heaven which they cannot discern rests
over him, glorious in its purity and stillness."  Nor is he altogether without kindly human
sympathies.  All generous and earnest hearts which are brought in contact with his own beat
evenly with it.  All that is good, and truthful, and lovely in man, whenever and wherever it
truly recognizes him, must sooner or later acknowledge his claim to love and reverence.  His
faith overcomes all things.  The future unrolls itself before him, with its waving harvest-fields
springing up from the seed he is scattering; and he looks forward to the close of life with
the calm confidence of one who feels that he has not lived idle and useless, but with hopeful
heart and strong arm has labored with God and Nature for the best.

And not in vain.  In the economy of God, no effort, however small, put forth for the right
cause, fails of its effect.  No voice, however feeble, lifted up for truth, ever dies amidst
the confused noises of time.  Through discords of sin and sorrow, pain and wrong, it rises
a deathless melody, whose notes of wailing are hereafter to be changed to those of triumph
as they blend with the great harmony of a reconciled universe.  The language of a transatlantic
reformer to his friends is then as true as it is hopeful and cheering: "Triumph is certain.
We have espoused no losing cause.  In the body we may not join our shout with the victors;
but in spirit we may even now.  There is but an interval of time between us and the success
at which we aim.  In all other respects the links of the chain are complete.  Identifying ourselves
with immortal and immutable principles, we share both their immortality and immutability. The
vow which unites us with truth makes futurity present with us.  Our being resolves itself into
an everlasting now.  It is not so correct to say that we shall be victorious as that we are
so.  When we will in unison with the supreme Mind, the characteristics of His will become,
in some sort, those of ours.  What He has willed is virtually done.  It may take ages to unfold
itself; but the germ of its whole history is wrapped up in His determination.  When we make
His will ours, which we do when we aim at truth, that upon which we are resolved is done, decided,
born. Life is in it.  It is; and the future is but the development of its being.  Ours, therefore,
is a perpetual triumph.  Our deeds are, all of them, component elements of success." [Miall's
Essays; Nonconformist, Vol. iv.]

THE PILGRIMS OF PLYMOUTH.

From a letter on the celebration of the 250th anniversary of the landing of the Pilgrims at
Plymouth, December 22, 1870.

No one can appreciate more highly than myself the noble qualities of the men and women of the
Mayflower.  It is not of them that I, a descendant of the "sect called Quakers," have reason
to complain in the matter of persecution.  A generation which came after them, with less piety
and more bigotry, is especially responsible for the little unpleasantness referred to; and
the sufferers from it scarcely need any present championship.  They certainly did not wait
altogether for the revenges of posterity.  If they lost their ears, it is satisfactory to remember
that they made those of their mutilators tingle with a rhetoric more sharp than polite.

