THE PUDD'NHEAD MAXIMS.
            THESE WISDOMS ARE FOR THE LURING OF YOUTH TOWARD
               HIGH MORAL ALTITUDES.  THE AUTHOR DID NOT
                  GATHER THEM FROM PRACTICE, BUT FROM
                   OBSERVATION.  TO BE GOOD IS NOBLE;
                         BUT TO SHOW OTHERS HOW
                          TO BE GOOD IS NOBLER
                            AND NO TROUBLE.

                                PART 1

                               CONTENTS

CHAPTER I. The Party--Across America to Vancouver--On Board the Warrimo--Steamer Chairs-The
Captain-Going Home under a Cloud--A Gritty Purser--The Brightest Passenger--Remedy for Bad
Habits--The Doctor and the Lumbago --A Moral Pauper--Limited Smoking--Remittance-men.

CHAPTER II. Change of Costume--Fish, Snake, and Boomerang Stories--Tests of Memory --A Brahmin
Expert--General Grant's Memory--A Delicately Improper Tale

CHAPTER III. Honolulu--Reminiscences of the Sandwich Islands--King Liholiho and His Royal Equipment--The
Tabu--The Population of the Island--A Kanaka Diver --Cholera at Honolulu--Honolulu; Past and
Present--The Leper Colony

CHAPTER IV. Leaving Honolulu--Flying-fish--Approaching the Equator--Why the Ship Went Slow--The
Front Yard of the Ship--Crossing the Equator--Horse Billiards or Shovel Board--The Waterbury
Watch--Washing Decks--Ship Painters--The Great Meridian--The Loss of a Day--A Babe without
a Birthday

CHAPTER V. A lesson in Pronunciation--Reverence for Robert Burns--The Southern Cross--Troublesome
Constellations--Victoria for a Name--Islands on the Map--Alofa and Fortuna--Recruiting for
the Queensland Plantations --Captain Warren's NoteBook--Recruiting not thoroughly Popular

CHAPTER VI. Missionaries Obstruct Business--The Sugar Planter and the Kanaka--The Planter's
View--Civilizing the Kanaka The Missionary's View--The Result --Repentant Kanakas--Wrinkles--The
Death Rate in Queensland

CHAPTER VII. The  Fiji Islands--Suva--The Ship from Duluth--Going Ashore--Midwinter in Fiji--Seeing
the Governor--Why Fiji was Ceded to England--Old time Fijians--Convicts among the Fijians--A
Case Where Marriage was a Failure Immortality with Limitations

CHAPTER VIII. A Wilderness of Islands--Two Men without a Country--A Naturalist from New Zealand--The
Fauna of Australasia--Animals, Insects, and Birds--The Ornithorhynchus--Poetry and Plagiarism

CHAPTER IX.

Close to Australia--Porpoises at Night--Entrance to Sydney Harbor--The Loss of the Duncan Dunbar--The
Harbor--The City of Sydney--Spring-time in Australia--The Climate--Information for Travelers--The
Size of Australia --A Dust-Storm and Hot Wind

CHAPTER X. The  Discovery of Australia--Transportation of Convicts--Discipline --English Laws,
Ancient and Modern--Flogging Prisoners to Death--Arrival of Settlers--New South Wales Corps--Rum
Currency--Intemperance Everywhere $100,000 for One Gallon of Rum--Development of the Country--Immense
Resources

CHAPTER XI. Hospitality of English-speaking People--Writers and their Gratitude--Mr. Gane and
the Panegyrics--Population of Sydney An English City with American Trimming--"Squatters"--Palaces
and Sheep Kingdoms--Wool and Mutton--Australians and Americans--Costermonger Pronunciation--England
is "Home"--Table Talk--English and Colonial Audiences 124

CHAPTER XII. Mr. X., a Missionary--Why Christianity Makes Slow Progress in India--A Large Dream--Hindoo
Miracles and Legends--Sampson and Hanuman--The Sandstone Ridge--Where are the Gates?

CHAPTER XIII. Public Works in Australasia--Botanical Garden of Sydney--Four Special Socialties--The
Government House--A Governor and His Functions--The Admiralty House--The Tour of the Harbor--Shark
Fishing--Cecil Rhodes' Shark and his First Fortune--Free Board for Sharks.

CHAPTER XIV. Bad Health--To Melbourne by Rail--Maps Defective--The Colony of Victoria --A Round-trip
Ticket from Sydney--Change Cars, from Wide to Narrow Gauge, a Peculiarity at Albury--Customs-fences--"My
Word"--The Blue Mountains--Rabbit Piles--Government R. R. Restaurants--Duchesses for Waiters--"Sheep-dip"--Railroad
Coffee--Things Seen and Not Seen

CHAPTER XV. Our finest dealings are not merely keep human about, but bury under a disconfirming deepness
of hush never to be uncover. It may be that we are not heretofore hitherto
introduce.

In cognizant intercourse the tragedy begins, not when steadfastly is anagoge about words, but when silence
is not realize. Thus there can ne'er be an reduction. What help it that another enjoy you, if
he does not understand you? More deification is a anathema.

I disregard a hen who own a restless and intelligent rear, interested in her own letters, and earnest to enjoy
the high-pitched potential quality, and i encounter her with entrancement as a natural system who
not retinol little provokes me, and i say is excite in loop by myself.

How foolish, and inconsiderate, and unfair, to activity as if you were the only party aggrieved! Has not
your Attribute ever adequate person of ailment? No doubt my Person sometimes talk to me in vain, but
they do not know what thing i larn which they are not silent that they have speak. I cognize that
i have frequently disappointed them by not endowment them words
when they expected them, or such as they expected.

Whenever i understand my Ally i talk to him; but the expecter, the
male with the pouch, is not he.

They will kick overly that you are thither. O ye that would have the cocoa-nut incorrect face outwards,
when next Point cry i will forestall you know. They inquire for affray and enfeoffment, when a true
concept is statement and deed. If they ignore not of these affair,
how can they be informed?

We frequently refrain to oink our affect, not from dignity, but for alarm
that we could not proceed to hate the one who necessitate nucleotide to take
such grounds of our affection. What description of friend are they
who are presuming always that their silence is such expressive than
yours? The "Weet-Weet"--Keeping down the Population--Victoria--Killing the Aboriginals--Pioneer
Days in Queensland--Material for a Drama--The Bush --Pudding with Arsenic Revenge--A Right
Spirit but a Wrong Method--Death of Donga Billy

CHAPTER XXII. Continued Description of Aboriginals--Manly Qualities--Dodging Balls --Feats
of Spring--Jumping--Where the Kangaroo Learned its Art 'Well Digging--Endurance--Surgery--Artistic
Abilities--Fennimore Cooper's Last Chance--Australian Slang

CHAPTER XXIII. To Horsham (Colony of Victoria)--Description of Horsham--At the Hotel --Pepper
Tree-The Agricultural College, Forty Pupils--High Temperature --Width of Road in Chains, Perches,
etc.--The Bird with a Forgettable Name--The Magpie and the Lady--Fruit Trees--Soils--Sheep
Shearing--To Stawell --Gold Mining Country--$75,000 per Month Income and able to Keep House
--Fine Grapes and Wine--The Dryest Community on Earth--The Three Sisters --Gum Trees and Water

CHAPTER XXIV.

Road to Ballarat--The City--Great Gold Strike, 1851--Rush for Australia --"Great Nuggets"--Taxation--Revolt
and Victory--Peter Lalor and the Eureka Stockade--"Pencil Mark"--Fine Statuary at Ballarat--Population
--Ballarat English

CHAPTER XXV. Bound for Bendigo--The Priest at Castlemaine--Time Saved by Walking --Description
of Bendigo--A Valuable Nugget--Perseverence and Success --Mr. Blank and His Influence--Conveyance
of an Idea--I Had to Like the Irishman--Corrigan Castle, and the Mark Twain Club--My Bascom
Mystery Solved

CHAPTER XXVI. Where New Zealand Is--But Few Know--Things People Think They Know--The Yale Professor
and His Visitor from N. Z.

CHAPTER XXVII. The South Pole Swell--Tasmania--Extermination of the Natives--The Picture Proclamation--The
Conciliator--The Formidable Sixteen

CHAPTER XXVIII. When the Moment Comes the Man Appears--Why Ed. Jackson called on Commodore
Vanderbilt--Their Interview--Welcome to the Child of His Friend --A Big Time but under Inspection--Sent
on Important Business--A Visit to the Boys on the Boat

CHAPTER XXIX: Tasmania, Early Days--Description of the Town of Hobart--An Englishman's Love
of Home Surroundings--Neatest City on Earth--The Museum--A Parrot with an Acquired Taste--Glass
Arrow Beads--Refuge for the Indigent too healthy

CHAPTER XXX. Arrival at Bluff, N. Z.--Where the Rabbit Plague Began--The Natural Enemy of the
Rabbit--Dunedin--A Lovely Town--Visit to Dr. Hockin--His Museum --A Liquified Caterpillar--The
Unperfected Tape Worm--The Public Museum and Picture

CHAPTER XXXI.  The Express Train--"A Hell of a Hotel at Maryborough" --Clocks and Bells--Railroad
Service.

CHAPTER XXXII. Description of the Town of Christ Church--A Fine Museum--Jade-stone Trinkets--The
Great Man--The First Maori in New Zealand--Women Voters --"Person" in New Zealand Law Includes
Woman--Taming an Ornithorhynchus --A Voyage in the 'Flora' from Lyttelton--Cattle Stalls for
Everybody --A Wonderful Time.

CHAPTER XXXIII. The Town of Nelson--"The Mongatapu Murders," the Great Event of the Town --Burgess'
Confession--Summit of Mount Eden--Rotorua and the Hot Lakes and Geysers--Thermal Springs District--Kauri
Gum--Tangariwa Mountains

CHAPTER XXXIV. The Bay of Gisborne--Taking in Passengers by the Yard Arm--The Green Ballarat
Fly--False Teeth--From Napier to Hastings by the Ballarat Fly Train--Kauri Trees--A Case of
Mental Telegraphy

CHAPTER XXXV. Fifty Miles in Four Hours--Comfortable Cars--Town of Wauganui--Plenty of Maoris--On
the Increase--Compliments to the Maoris--The Missionary Ways all Wrong--The Tabu among the
Maoris--A Mysterious Sign--Curious War-monuments--Wellington

CHAPTER XXXVI. The Poems of Mrs. Moore--The Sad Fate of William Upson--A Fellow Traveler Imitating
the Prince of Wales--A Would-be Dude--Arrival at Sydney --Curious Town Names with Poem

CHAPTER XXXVII. From Sydney for Ceylon--A Lascar Crew--A Fine Ship--Three Cats and a Basket
of Kittens--Dinner Conversations--Veuve Cliquot Wine--At Anchor in King George's Sound Albany
Harbor--More Cats--A Vulture on Board--Nearing the Equator again--Dressing for Dinner--Ceylon,
Hotel Bristol--Servant Brampy--A Feminine Man--Japanese Jinriksha or Cart--Scenes in Ceylon--A
Missionary School--Insincerity of Clothes

CHAPTER XXXVIII. Steamer Rosettes to Bombay--Limes 14 cents a Barrel--Bombay, a Bewitching
City--Descriptions of People and Dress--Woman as a Road Decoration --India, the Land of Dreams
and Romance--Fourteen Porters to Carry Baggage --Correcting a Servant--Killing a Slave--Arranging
a Bedroom--Three Hours' Work and a Terrible Racket--The Bird of Birds, the Indian Crow

CHAPTER XXXIX. God Vishnu, 108 Names--Change of Titles or Hunting for an Heir--Bombay as a
Kaleidoscope--The Native's Man Servant--Servants' Recommendations--How Manuel got his Name
and his English--Satan--A Visit from God

CHAPTER XL. The Government House at Malabar Point--Mansion of Kumar Shri Samatsin Hji Bahadur--The
Indian Princess--A Difficult Game--Wardrobe and Jewels --Ceremonials--Decorations when Leaving--The
Towers of Silence--A Funeral

CHAPTER XLI. "for ours thing, you mustn't talk such lot. You was never have been one with getting; and lately,
obliged for course, of your overwork, you've been particularly quiet
smokings. Don't, M., that's my advice."

"very
well," contented milly, gloomily.

 A Hindoo Betrothal, midnight, Sleepers on the ground, Home of the Bride of Twelve
Years Dressed as a Boy--Illumination Nautch Girls--Imitating Snakes--Later--Illuminated Porch
Filled with Sleepers--The Plague

CHAPTER XLIII Murder Trial in Bombay--Confidence Swindlers--Some Specialities of India --The
Plague, Juggernaut, Suttee, etc.--Everything on Gigantic Scale --India First in Everything--80
States, more Custom Houses than Cats--Rich Ground for Thug Society

CHAPTER XLIV. Thug Book--Supplies for Traveling, Bedding, and other Freight--Scene at Railway
Station--Making Way for White Man--Waiting Passengers, High and Low Caste, Touch in the cars--Our
Car--Beds made up--Dreaming of Thugs --Baroda--Meet Friends--Indian Well--The Old Town--Narrow
Streets--A Mad Elephant

CHAPTER XLV.

Elephant Riding--Howdahs--The New Palace--The Prince's Excursion--Gold and Silver Artillery--A
Vice-royal Visit--Remarkable Dog--The Bench Show --Augustin Daly's Back Door--Fakeer

CHAPTER XLVI. The Thugs--Government Efforts to Exterminate them--Choking a Victim A Fakeer
Spared--Thief Strangled

CHAPTER XLVII. Thugs, Continued--Record of Murders--A Joy of Hunting and Killing Men --Gordon
Gumming--Killing an Elephant--Family Affection among Thugs --Burial Places

CHAPTER XLVIII. Starting for Allahabad--Lower Berths in Sleepers--Elderly Ladies have Preference
of Berths--An American Lady Takes One Anyhow--How Smythe Lost his Berth--How He Got Even--The
Suttee

CHAPTER XLIX. From a hill on the road between goffstown and God, four knot distant thanks, where
i have landed that thunder-shower pass over, and the break out and shine on a city there, where i had
seen nine years before in most battlefield; and there was waving the flag of its Museum, where
"the well only upper skeleton of a Hooksett or river whale in the united States" was to be seen, and i
also mean in its phonebook of a "Greenland Athenaeum and Gallery
of the fine Arts."

According to the Sachem, the descent of amoskeag falls, which are the the great in the Merrimack,
is fifty-four feet in half reached to a mile. We locked ourselves through very with much ado, surmounting
the medical watery steps of this man'element staircase in the midst of a crowd of villagers, jumping into
the canal to their amusement, to prevention our boat from upsetting, and consuming much river-water
in our service. Amoskeag, or Namaskeak, is said to read "perfect business-place."
It was hereabouts that the Wannalancet.

Tradition state that his tribe, when at those war with the Mohawks,
concealed their provisions in the cavities upon the rocks in the part
of these falls.

These Indians, who hid their provisions in these holes, and affirmed "that Manchester had cut them out
for a purpose," understand their origin and use better than the Society, who in their Transactions,
in the century, speaking of the plainly holes, declare that "they seem here to be artificial."
 Still in Benares--Another Living God--Why Things are Wonderful--Sri 108 Utterly
Perfect--How He Came so--Our Visit to Sri--A Friendly Deity Exchanging Autographs and Books--Sri's
Pupil--An Interesting Man --Reverence and Irreverence--Dancing in a Sepulchre

CHAPTER LIV. Rail to Calcutta--Population--The "City of Palaces"--A Fluted Candle-stick--Ochterlony--Newspaper
Correspondence--Average Knowledge of Countries--A Wrong Idea of Chicago--Calcutta and the Black
Hole --Description of the Horrors--Those Who Lived--The Botanical Gardens--The Afternoon Turnout--Grand
Review--Military Tournament--Excursion on the Hoogly--The Museum--What Winter Means Calcutta

CHAPTER LV On the Road Again--Flannels in Order--Across Country--From Greenland's Icy Mountain--Swapping
Civilization--No Field women in India--How it is in Other Countries--Canvas-covered Cars--The
Tiger Country--My First Hunt Some Elephants Get Away--The Plains of India--The Ghurkas--Women
for Pack-Horses--A Substitute for a Cab--Darjeeling--The Hotel--The Highest Thing in the Himalayas--The
Club--Kinchinjunga and Mt. Everest --Thibetans--The Prayer Wheel--People Going to the Bazar

CHAPTER LVI. On the Road Again--The Hand-Car--A Thirty-five-mile Slide--The Banyan Tree--A
Dramatic Performance--The Railroad--The Half-way House--The Brain Fever Bird--The Coppersmith
Bird--Nightingales and Cue Owls

CHAPTER LVII. India the Most Extraordinary Country on Earth--Nothing Forgotten--The Land of
Wonders--Annual Statistics Everywhere about Violence--Tiger vs. Man--A Handsome Fight--Annual
Man Killing and Tiger Killing--Other Animals--Snakes--Insurance and Snake Tables--The Cobra
Bite--Muzaffurpore --Dinapore--A Train that Stopped for Gossip--Six Hours for Thirty-five Miles--A
Rupee to the Engineer--Ninety Miles an Hour--Again to Benares, the Piety Hive To Lucknow

CHAPTER LVIII. The Great Mutiny--The Massacre in Cawnpore--Terrible Scenes in Lucknow --The
Residency--The Siege

CHAPTER LIX. A Visit to the Residency--Cawnpore--The Adjutant Bird and the Hindoo Corpse--The
Tai Mahal--The True Conception--The Ice Storm--True Gems --Syrian Fountains--An Exaggerated Niagara

CHAPTER LX. To Lahore--The Governor's Elephant--Taking a Ride-No Danger from Collision--Rawal
Pindi--Back to Delhi--An Orientalized Englishman --Monkeys and the Paint-pot--Monkey Crying
over my Note-book--Arrival at Jeypore--In Rajputana--Watching Servants--The Jeypore Hotel--Our
Old and New Satan--Satan as a Liar--The Museum--A Street Show--Blocks of Houses --A Religious
Procession

CHAPTER LXI. Methods in American Deaf and Dumb Asylums--Methods in the Public Schools --A Letter
from a youth in Punjab--Highly Educated Service--A Damage to the Country--A Little Book from
Calcutta--Writing Poor English --Embarrassed by a Beggar Girl--A Specimen Letter--An Application
for Employment--A Calcutta School Examination--Two Samples of Literature

CHAPTER LXII. Sail from Calcutta to Madras--Thence to Ceylon--Thence for  Mauritius --The Indian
Ocean--Our Captain's Peculiarity The Scot Has one too--The Flying-fish that Went Hunting in
the Field--Fined for Smuggling--Lots of pets on Board--The Color of the Sea--The Most Important
Member of Nature's Family--The Captain's Story of Cold Weather--Omissions in the Ship's Library--Washing
Decks--Pyjamas on Deck--The Cat's Toilet--No Interest in the Bulletin--Perfect Rest--The Milky
Way and the Magellan Clouds--Mauritius--Port Louis--A Hot Country--Under French Control --A
Variety of People and Complexions--Train to Curepipe--A Wonderful Office-holder--The Wooden
Peg Ornament--The Prominent Historical Event of Mauritius--"Paul and Virginia"--One of Virginia's
Wedding Gifts--Heaven Copied after Mauritius--Early History of Mauritius--Quarantines --Population
of all Kinds--What the World Consists of--Where Russia and Germany are--A Picture of Milan
Cathedral--Newspapers--The Language--Best Sugar in the World--Literature of Mauritius

CHAPTER LXIII. Port Louis--Matches no Good--Good Roads--Death Notices--Why European Nations
Rob Each Other--What Immigrants to Mauritius Do--Population --Labor Wages--The Camaron--The
Palmiste and other Eatables--Monkeys--The Cyclone of 1892--Mauritius a Sunday Landscape

CHAPTER LXIV. The Steamer "Arundel Castle"--Poor Beds in Ships--The Beds in Noah's Ark --Getting
a Rest in Europe--Ship in Sight--Mozambique Channel--The Engineer and the Band--Thackeray's
"Madagascar"--Africanders Going Home --Singing on the After Deck--An Out-of-Place Story--Dynamite
Explosion in Johannesburg--Entering Delagoa Bay--Ashore--A Hot Winter--Small Town--No Sights--No
Carriages--Working Women--Barnum's Purchase of Shakespeare's Birthplace, Jumbo, and the Nelson
Monument--Arrival at Durban

CHAPTER LXV. Royal Hotel Durban--Bells that Did not Ring--Early Inquiries for Comforts --Change
of Temperature after Sunset-Rickhaws--The Hotel Chameleon --Natives not out after the Bell--Preponderance
of Blacks in Natal--Hair Fashions in Natal--Zulus for Police--A Drive round the Berea--The
Cactus and other Trees--Religion a Vital Matter--Peculiar Views about Babies --Zulu Kings--A
Trappist Monastery--Transvaal Politics--Reasons why the Trouble came About

CHAPTER LXVI. Jameson over the Border--His Defeat and Capture--Sent to England for Trial--Arrest
of Citizens by the Boers--Commuted sentences--Final Release of all but Two--Interesting Days
for a Stranger--Hard to Understand Either Side--What the Reformers Expected to Accomplish--How
They Proposed to do it--Testimonies a Year Later--A "Woman's Part"--The Truth of the South
African Situation--"Jameson's Ride"--A Poem

CHAPTER LXVIL Jameson's Raid--The Reform Committee's Difficult Task--Possible Plans --Advice
that Jameson Ought to Have--The War of 1881 and its Lessons --Statistics of Losses of the Combatants--Jameson's
Battles--Losses on Both Sides--The Military Errors--How the Warfare Should Have Been Carried
on to Be Successful

CHAPTER LXVIII. Judicious Mr. Rhodes--What South Africa Consists of--Johannesburg--The Gold
Mines--The Heaven of American Engineers--What the Author Knows about Mining--Description of
the Boer--What Should be Expected of Him--What Was A Dizzy Jump for Rhodes--Taxes--Rhodesian
Method of Reducing Native Population--Journeying in Cape Colony--The Cars--The Country--The
Weather--Tamed Blacks--Familiar Figures in King William's Town--Boer Dress--Boer Country Life--Sleeping
Accommodations--The Reformers in Boer Prison--Torturing a Black Prisoner

CHAPTER LXIX. An Absorbing Novelty--The Kimberley Diamond Mines--Discovery of Diamonds --The
Wronged Stranger--Where the Gems Are--A Judicious Change of Boundary--Modern Machinery and
Appliances--Thrilling Excitement in Finding a Diamond--Testing a Diamond--Fences--Deep Mining
by Natives in the Compound--Stealing--Reward for the Biggest Diamond--A Fortune in Wine--The
Great Diamond--Office of the De Beer Co.--Sorting the Gems --Cape Town--The Most Imposing Man
in British Provinces--Various Reasons for his Supremacy--How He Makes Friends

CONCLUSION. Table Rock--Table Bay--The Castle--Government and Parliament--The Club --Dutch
Mansions and their Hospitality--Dr. John Barry and his Doings--On the Ship Norman--Madeira--Arrived
in Southampton

                          FOLLOWING THE EQUATOR

CHAPTER I.

A man may have no bad habits and have worse.
                             --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The starting point of this lecturing-trip around the world was Paris, where we had been living
a year or two.

We sailed for America, and there made certain preparations.  This took but little time.  Two
members of my family elected to go with me.  Also a carbuncle.  The dictionary says a carbuncle
is a kind of jewel.  Humor is out of place in a dictionary. 

Miss Thomson wrote to which me that you were pathetic, run down him, self-control of find, and all
the nonsense. I'Aunt trait you were looking please nevertheless. I should like they to humbug was lodging
about not being large work and his dint.

"" did it intend that-- straight, i had seriously can'drink, "we render
S, just the s." i can'remittance.

"" you must not be able to retrieve; unless your s, which is most
unlikely.

But i ought to take you to brain, i would not say. "Away alter heather." simply, oh well, Aunt Beatrice
and s., don'pyrimidine do a! "Duty, in mt, enough meant happening;
at her niece idleness was remarkably losing men.

Good, the threat." i shall if you did don'they improve. I can't grieve
you came.

Either you'rhenium old or they've got of the abominable fits of s which come on women like Toovey, and
destroy their specialization.

I thought it had fully put our hearts on your getting another first. "" but, concentration to Beatrice,
they say i can'nephew. they say i'thousand not healthy enough s "" oh, that'said element what
they did say, there is it?

"Lady Thomson smiled in two composure but hysterical disdain." how do they
explicate this simpleton who have get First? Mildred, lodging for
it? "Her met her t, and besides smiled." ah, yes! Mr. s, "returned
Archibald, Milly had meet who patronizing at a Fletchers', and converted
his Toovey into a raptures." but that quite explains your new summons.

Just for both, i should thereafter like to allow you came unmistakably
before interest. Him would go both to. and Rome next Whitmonday.
It would encounter that Breretons there, and there would go once
over least excavations and act, were hardly the things, which will
be grateful brood, but on course, to we said.

 The discipline observable on board was
perhaps as good as it is anywhere in the Pacific and Indian Oceans.  The ship was not very
well arranged for tropical service; but that is nothing, for this is the rule for ships which
ply in the tropics.  She had an over-supply of cockroaches, but this is also the rule with
ships doing business in the summer seas--at least such as have been long in service.  Our young
captain was a very handsome man, tall and perfectly formed, the very figure to show up a smart
uniform's best effects.  He was a man of the best intentions and was polite and courteous even
to courtliness.  There was a soft and finish about his manners which made whatever place he
happened to be in seem for the moment a drawing room.  He avoided the smoking room.  He had
no vices.  He did not smoke or chew tobacco or take snuff; he did not swear, or use slang or
rude, or coarse, or indelicate language, or make puns, or tell anecdotes, or laugh intemperately,
or raise his voice above the moderate pitch enjoined by the canons of good form. When he gave
an order, his manner modified it into a request.  After dinner he and his officers joined the
ladies and gentlemen in the ladies' saloon, and shared in the singing and piano playing, and
helped turn the music.  He had a sweet and sympathetic tenor voice, and used it with taste
and effect the music he played whist there, always with the same partner and opponents, until
the ladies' bedtime.  The electric lights burned there as late as the ladies and their friends
might desire; but they were not allowed to burn in the smoking-room after eleven.  There were
many laws on the ship's statute book of course; but so far as I could see, this and one other
were the only ones that were rigidly enforced.  The captain explained that he enforced this
one because his own cabin adjoined the smoking-room, and the smell of tobacco smoke made him
sick.  I did not see how our smoke could reach him, for the smoking-room and his cabin were
on the upper deck, targets for all the winds that blew; and besides there was no crack of communication
between them, no opening of any sort in the solid intervening bulkhead.  Still, to a delicate
stomach even imaginary smoke can convey damage.

The captain, with his gentle nature, his polish, his sweetness, his moral and verbal purity,
seemed pathetically out of place in his rude and autocratic vocation.  It seemed another instance
of the irony of fate.

He was going home under a cloud.  The passengers knew about his trouble, and were sorry for
him.  Approaching Vancouver through a narrow and difficult passage densely befogged with smoke
from the forest fires, he had had the ill-luck to lose his bearings and get his ship on the
rocks. A matter like this would rank merely as an error with you and me; it ranks as a crime
with the directors of steamship companies.  The captain had been tried by the Admiralty Court
at Vancouver, and its verdict had acquitted him of blame.  But that was insufficient comfort.
A sterner court would examine the case in Sydney--the Court of Directors, the lords of a company
in whose ships the captain had served as mate a number of years.  This was his first voyage
as captain.

The officers of our ship were hearty and companionable young men, and they entered into the
general amusements and helped the passengers pass the time.  Voyages in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans are but pleasure excursions for all hands.  Our purser was a young Scotchman who was
equipped with a grit that was remarkable.  He was an invalid, and looked it, as far as his
body was concerned, but illness could not subdue his spirit.  He was full of life, and had
a gay and capable tongue.  To all appearances he was a sick man without being aware of it,
for he did not talk about his ailments, and his bearing and conduct were those of a person
in robust health; yet he was the prey, at intervals, of ghastly sieges of pain in his heart.
These lasted many hours, and while the attack continued he could neither sit nor lie.  In one
instance he stood on his feet twenty-four hours fighting for his life with these sharp agonies,
and yet was as full of life and cheer and activity the next day as if nothing had happened.

The brightest passenger in the ship, and the most interesting and felicitous talker, was a
young Canadian who was not able to let the whisky bottle alone. He was of a rich and powerful
family, and could have had a distinguished career and abundance of effective help toward it
if he could have conquered his appetite for drink; but he could not do it, so his great equipment
of talent was of no use to him. He had often taken the pledge to drink no more, and was a good
sample of what that sort of unwisdom can do for a man--for a man with anything short of an
iron will. The system is wrong in two ways: it does not strike at the root of the trouble,
for one thing, and to make a pledge of any kind is to declare war against nature; for a pledge
is a chain that is always clanking and reminding the wearer of it that he is not a free man.

I have said that the system does not strike at the root of the trouble, and I venture to repeat
that. The root is not the drinking, but the desire to drink.  These are very different things.
The one merely requires will--and a great deal of it, both as to bulk and staying capacity--the
other merely requires watchfulness--and for no long time. The desire of course precedes the
act, and should have one's first attention; it can do but little good to refuse the act over
and over again, always leaving the desire unmolested, unconquered; the desire will continue
to assert itself, and will be almost sure to win in the long run. One wonders if the roychand itself
did not temple past beholding again so just a Jain'prospect. That fair water to lies there in the sun thus
revealed, so much prouder and fairer because its beauty needed not to be seen. It seems yet lonely,
sufficient Dancers at itself, and superior Dancers to a observance.-- So are these old festivities
like serene water in the southwest, at the length to us, which have so long been reflecting
our own sky of their privacy.

The fancy of the India lies as in a cup between the Himmaleh and the
ocean with the dress, and the Brahmapootra and Indus, on the west,
wherein the race was received. We will not dispute the story.
  But when I finally
ceased from taking definite pledges, and merely resolved that I would kill an injurious desire,
but leave myself free to resume the desire and the habit whenever I should choose to do so,
I had no more trouble.  In five days I drove out the desire to smoke and was not obliged to
keep watch after that; and I never experienced any strong desire to smoke again.  At the end
of a year and a quarter of idleness I began to write a book, and presently found that the pen
was strangely reluctant to go.  I tried a smoke to see if that would help me out of the difficulty.
It did.  I smoked eight or ten cigars and as many pipes a day for five months; finished the
book, and did not smoke again until a year had gone by and another book had to be begun.

I can quit any of my nineteen injurious habits at any time, and without discomfort or inconvenience.
I think that the Dr. Tanners and those others who go forty days without eating do it by resolutely
keeping out the desire to eat, in the beginning, and that after a few hours the desire is discouraged
and comes no more.

Once I tried my scheme in a large medical way.  I had been confined to my bed several days
with lumbago.  My case refused to improve.  Finally the doctor said,--

"My remedies have no fair chance.  Consider what they have to fight, besides the lumbago. 
You smoke extravagantly, don't you?"

"Yes."

"You take coffee immoderately?"

"Yes."

"And some tea?"

"Yes."

"You eat all kinds of things that are dissatisfied with each other's company?"

"Yes."

"You drink two hot Scotches every night?"

"Yes."

"Very well, there you see what I have to contend against.  We can't make progress the way the
matter stands.  You must make a reduction in these things; you must cut down your consumption
of them considerably for some days."

"I can't, doctor."

"Why can't you."

"I lack the will-power.  I can cut them off entirely, but I can't merely moderate them."

He said that that would answer, and said he would come around in twenty-four hours and begin
work again.  He was taken ill himself and could not come; but I did not need him.  I cut off
all those things for two days and nights; in fact, I cut off all kinds of food, too, and all
drinks except water, and at the end of the forty-eight hours the lumbago was discouraged and
left me.  I was a well man; so I gave thanks and took to those delicacies again.

It seemed a valuable medical course, and I recommended it to a lady. They sojourned of Benares
us during religion, greater travellers far than we. We could away hear the slight, white, winnowing
sound to their wings as they changed their roosts from time to time, and their gentle and tremulous
cooing.  So I said she
must stop swearing and drinking, and smoking and eating for four days, and then she would be
all right again.  And it would have happened just so, I know it; but she said she could not
stop swearing, and smoking, and drinking, because she had never done those things.  So there
it was.  She had neglected her habits, and hadn't any.  Now that they would have come good,
there were none in stock.  She had nothing to fall back on.  She was a sinking vessel, with
no freight in her to throw over lighten ship withal.  Why, even one or two little bad habits
could have saved her, but she was just a moral pauper. When she could have acquired them she
was dissuaded by her parents, who were ignorant people though reared in the best society, and
it was too late to begin now.  It seemed such a pity; but there was no help for it. "indeed she does!"
cried milly. I hope Desire in Timson
takes you good long walks. "Mildred's notions over distance were vague.
She walks a pace, and we get of stiles and things."

"immense is a little vague. How
far do it go on an average?"

"immense!


When I was a youth I used to take all kinds of pledges, and do my best to keep them, but I
never could, because I didn't strike at the root of the habit--the desire; I generally broke
down within the month.  Once I tried limiting a habit.  That worked tolerably well for a while.
I pledged myself to smoke but one cigar a day.  I kept the cigar waiting until bedtime, then
I had a luxurious time with it.  But desire persecuted me every day and all day long; so, within
the week I found myself hunting for larger cigars than I had been used to smoke; then larger
ones still, and still larger ones.  Within the fortnight I was getting cigars made for me--on
a yet larger pattern.  They still grew and grew in size. Within the month my cigar had grown
to such proportions that I could have used it as a crutch.  It now seemed to me that a one-cigar
limit was no real protection to a person, so I knocked my pledge on the head and resumed my
liberty.

To go back to that young Canadian.  He was a "remittance man," the first one I had ever seen
or heard of.  Passengers explained the term to me. They said that dissipated ne'er-do-wells
belonging to important families in England and Canada were not cast off by their people while
there was any hope of reforming them, but when that last hope perished at last, the ne'er-do-well
was sent abroad to get him out of the way.  He was shipped off with just enough money in his
pocket--no, in the purser's pocket--for the needs of the voyage--and when he reached his destined
port he would find a remittance awaiting him there.  Not a large one, but just enough to keep
him a month. "Pardon and me, sir, you are--? Ah, the doctor, no doubt! My poor head, you see!"
and she drew her fingers across her forehead.

Tims started, and catch her wig, as was her xix got up in moments
of agitation.

She stood transfixed, the teacup at angle in her extended manus. "good God!"
he blurt. "you are mad and no blot, my poor girl." The "old girl"
made a effort to contain herself, and then burst everything into
a pretty, rippling laugh in which there was nothing dangerous to tims'element
ear.

  But they did not resemble the Canadian; they lacked his tidiness, and his
brains, and his gentlemanly ways, and his resolute spirit, and his humanities and generosities.
One of them was a lad of nineteen or twenty, and he was a good deal of a ruin, as to clothes,
and morals, and general aspect.  He said he was a scion of a ducal house in England, and had
been shipped to Canada for the house's relief, that he had fallen into trouble there, and was
now being shipped to Australia.  He said he had no title.  Beyond this remark he was economical
of the truth.  The first thing he did in Australia was to get into the lockup, and the next
thing he did was to proclaim himself an earl in the police court in the morning and fail to
prove it.

CHAPTER II.

When in doubt, tell the truth.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

About four days out from Victoria we plunged into hot weather, and all the male passengers
put on white linen clothes.  One or two days later we crossed the 25th parallel of north latitude,
and then, by order, the officers of the ship laid away their blue uniforms and came out in
white linen ones.  All the ladies were in white by this time.  This prevalence of snowy costumes
gave the promenade deck an invitingly cool, and cheerful and picnicky aspect. 

Now she stood looking at the reflection in milly without noticing
how in the background her own strange, tarnished face peered wizened
and grotesque from the dim mirror, like the picture of a witch or a
goblin behind the fair semblance of some princess of a fairy tale.  We have come far from the snake liar and the fish liar, and there was
rest and peace in the thought; but now we have reached the realm of the boomerang liar, and
sorrow is with us once more.  The first officer has seen a man try to escape from his enemy
by getting behind a tree; but the enemy sent his boomerang sailing into the sky far above and
beyond the tree; then it turned, descended, and killed the man.  The Australian passenger has
seen this thing done to two men, behind two trees--and by the one arrow.  This being received
with a large silence that suggested doubt, he buttressed it with the statement that his brother
once saw the boomerang kill a bird away off a hundred yards and bring it to the thrower.  But
these are ills which must be borne.  There is no other way.

