"There again, now!--That is just so like the Marquis of Roccombole, another dear friend of
mine, that whistles all the time you talk to him--He says he learned it in the Reign of Terror,
when a man was glad to whistle to show his throat was whole. And, talking of great folk, what
do you think of this affair between Lord Etherington and his brother, or cousin, as some folk
call him?"

Jekyl absolutely started at the question; a degree of emotion, which, had it been witnessed
by any of his fashionable friends, would for ever have ruined his pretensions to rank in the
first order.

"What affair?" he asked, so soon as he could command a certain degree of composure.

"Why, you know the news surely? Francis Tyrrel, whom all the company voted a coward the other
day, turns out as brave a fellow as any of us; for, instead of having run away to avoid having
his own throat cut by Sir Bingo Binks, he was at the very moment engaged in a gallant attempt
to murder his elder brother, or his more lawful brother, or his cousin, or some such near relation."

"I believe you are misinformed, sir," said Jekyl dryly, and then resumed, as deftly as he could,
his proper character of a pococurante.

"I am told," continued Touchwood, "one Jekyl acted as a second to them both on the occasion--a
proper fellow, sir--one of those fine gentlemen whom we pay for polishing the pavement in Bond
Street, and looking at a thick shoe and a pair of worsted stockings, as if the wearer were
none of their paymasters. However, I believe the Commander-in-Chief is like to discard him
when he hears what has happened."

"Sir!" said Jekyl, fiercely--then, recollecting the folly of being angry with an original of
his companion's description, he proceeded more coolly, "You are misinformed--Captain Jekyl
knew nothing of any such matter as you refer to--you talk of a person you know nothing of--Captain
Jekyl is----(Here he stopped a little, scandalized, perhaps, at the very idea of vindicating
himself to such a personage from such a charge.)

"Ay, ay," said the traveller, filling up the chasm in his own way, "he is not worth our talking
of, certainly--but I believe he knew as much of the matter as either you or I do, for all that."

"Sir, this is either a very great mistake, or wilful impertinence," answered the officer. "However
absurd or intrusive you may be, I cannot allow you, either in ignorance or incivility, to use
the name of Captain Jekyl with disrespect.--I am Captain Jekyl, sir."

"Very like, very like," said Touchwood, with the most provoking indifference; "I guessed as
much before."

"Then, sir, you may guess what is likely to follow, when a gentleman hears himself unwarrantably
and unjustly slandered," replied Captain Jekyl, surprised and provoked that his annunciation
of name and rank seemed to be treated so lightly. "I advise you, sir, not to proceed too far
upon the immunities of your age and insignificance."

"I never presume farther than I have good reason to think necessary, Captain Jekyl," answered
Touchwood, with great composure. "I am too old, as you say, for any such idiotical business
as a duel, which no nation I know of practises but our silly fools of Europe--and then, as
for your switch, which you are grasping with so much dignity, that is totally out of the question.
Look you, young gentleman; four-fifths of my life have been spent among men who do not set
a man's life at the value of a button on his collar--every person learns, in such cases, to
protect himself as he can; and whoever strikes me must stand to the consequences. I have always
a brace of bull-dogs about me, which put age and youth on a level. So suppose me horsewhipped,
and pray, at the same time, suppose yourself shot through the body. The same exertion of imagination
will serve for both purposes."

So saying, he exhibited a very handsome, highly finished, and richly-mounted pair of pistols.

"Catch me without my tools," said he, significantly buttoning his coat over the arms, which
were concealed in a side-pocket, ingeniously contrived for that purpose. "I see you do not
know what to make of me," he continued, in a familiar and confidential tone; "but, to tell
you the truth, everybody that has meddled in this St. Ronan's business is a little off the
hooks--something of a tête exaltée, in plain words, a little crazy, or so; and I do not affect
to be much wiser than other people."

"Sir," said Jekyl, "your manners and discourse are so unprecedented, that I must ask your meaning
plainly and decidedly--Do you mean to insult me or no?"

"No insult at all, young gentleman--all fair meaning, and above board--I only wished to let
you know what the world may say, that is all."

"Sir," said Jekyl, hastily, "the world may tell what lies it pleases; but I was not present
at the rencontre between Etherington and Mr. Tyrrel--I was some hundred miles off."

"There now," said Touchwood, "there was a rencontre between them--the very thing I wanted to know."

"Sir," said Jekyl, aware too late that, in his haste to vindicate himself, he had committed
his friend, "I desire you will found nothing on an expression hastily used to vindicate myself
from a false aspersion--I only meant to say, if there was an affair such as you talk of, I
knew nothing of it."

"Never mind--never mind--I shall make no bad use of what I have learned," said Touchwood. "Were
you to eat your words with the best fish-sauce, (and that is Burgess's,) I have got all the
information from them I wanted."

"You are strangely pertinacious, sir," replied Jekyl.

"O, a rock, a piece of flint for that--What I have learned, I have learned, but I will make
no bad use of it.--Hark ye, Captain, I have no malice against your friend--perhaps the contrary--but
he is in a bad course, sir--has kept a false reckoning, for as deep as he thinks himself; and
I tell you so, because I hold you (your finery out of the question) to be, as Hamlet says,
indifferent honest; but, if you were not, why necessity is necessity; and a man will take a
Bedouin for his guide in the desert, whom he would not trust with an aspar in the cultivated
field; so I think of reposing some confidence in you--have not made up my mind yet, though."

"On my word, sir, I am greatly flattered both by your intentions and your hesitation," said
Captain Jekyl. "You were pleased to say just now, that every one concerned with these matters
was something particular."

"Ay, ay--something crazy--a little mad, or so. That was what I said, and I can prove it."

"I should be glad to hear the proof," said Jekyl--"I hope you do not except yourself?"

"Oh! by no means," answered Touchwood; "I am one of the maddest old boys ever slept out of
straw, or went loose. But you can put fishing questions in your turn, Captain, I see that--you
would fain know how much, or how little, I am in all these secrets. Well, that is as hereafter
may be. In the meantime, here are my proofs.--Old Scrogie Mowbray was mad, to like the sound
of Mowbray better than that of Scrogie; young Scrogie was mad, not to like it as well. The
old Earl of Etherington was not sane when he married a French wife in secret, and devilish
mad indeed when he married an English one in public. Then for the good folk here, Mowbray of
St. Ronan's is cracked, when he wishes to give his sister to he knows not precisely whom: She
is a fool not to take him, because she does know who he is, and what has been between them;
and your friend is maddest of all, who seeks her under so heavy a penalty:--and you and I,
Captain, go mad gratis, for company's sake, when we mix ourselves with such a mess of folly
and frenzy."

"Really, sir, all that you have said is an absolute riddle to me," replied the embarrassed Jekyl.

"Riddles may be read," said Touchwood, nodding; "if you have any desire to read mine, pray,
take notice, that this being our first interview, I have exerted myself faire les frais du
conversation, as Jack Frenchman says; if you want another, you may come to Mrs. Dods's at the
Cleikum Inn, any day before Saturday, at four precisely, when you will find none of your half-starved,
long-limbed bundles of bones, which you call poultry at the table-d'hôte, but a right Chitty-gong
fowl!--I got Mrs. Dods the breed from old Ben Vandewash, the Dutch broker--stewed to a minute,
with rice and mushrooms.--If you can eat without a silver fork, and your appetite serves you,
you shall be welcome--that's all.--So, good morning to you, good master lieutenant, for a captain
of the Guards is but a lieutenant after all."

So saying, and ere Jekyl could make any answer, the old gentleman turned short off into a path
which led to the healing fountain, branching away from that which conducted to the Hotel.

Uncertain with whom he had been holding a conversation so strange, Jekyl remained looking after
him, until his attention was roused by a little boy, who crept out from an adjoining thicket,
with a switch in his hand, which he had been just cutting,--probably against regulations to
the contrary effect made and provided, for he held himself ready to take cover in the copse
again, in case any one were in sight who might be interested in chastising his delinquency.
Captain Jekyl easily recognised in him one of that hopeful class of imps, who pick up a precarious
livelihood about places of public resort, by going errands, brushing shoes, doing the groom's
and coachman's work in the stables, driving donkeys, opening gates, and so forth, for about
one-tenth part of their time, spending the rest in gambling, sleeping in the sun, and otherwise
qualifying themselves to exercise the profession of thieves and pickpockets, either separately,
or in conjunction with those of waiters, grooms, and postilions. The little outcast had an
indifferent pair of pantaloons, and about half a jacket, for, like Pentapolin with the naked
arm, he went on action with his right shoulder bare; a third part of what had once been a hat
covered his hair, bleached white with the sun, and his face, as brown as a berry, was illuminated
by a pair of eyes, which, for spying out either peril or profit, might have rivalled those
of the hawk.--In a word, it was the original Puck of the Shaws dramaticals.

"Come hither, ye unhanged whelp," said Jekyl, "and tell me if you know the old gentleman that
passed down the walk just now--yonder he is, still in sight."

"It is the Naboab," said the boy; "I could swear to his back among all the backs at the Waal,
your honour."

"What do you call a Nabob, you varlet?"

"A Naboab--a Naboab?" answered the scout; "odd, I believe it is ane comes frae foreign parts,
with mair siller than his pouches can haud, and spills it a' through the country--they are
as yellow as orangers, and maun hae a' thing their ain gate."

"And what is this Naboab's name, as you call him?" demanded Jekyl.

"His name is Touchwood," said his informer; "ye may see him at the Waal every morning."

"I have not seen him at the ordinary."

"Na, na," answered the boy; "he is a queer auld cull, he disna frequent wi' other folk, but
lives upby at the Cleikum.--He gave me half-a-crown yince, and forbade me to play it awa' at
pitch and toss."

"And you disobeyed him, of course?"

"Na, I didna dis-obeyed him--I played it awa' at neevie-neevie-nick-nack."

"Well, there is sixpence for thee; lose it to the devil in any way thou think'st proper."

So saying he gave the little galopin his donative, and a slight rap on the pate at the same
time, which sent him scouring from his presence. He himself hastened to Lord Etherington's
apartments, and, as luck would have it, found the Earl alone.

FOOTNOTES:

[II-6] Forgive me, sir, I was bred in the Imperial service, and must smoke a little.

[II-7] Smoke as much as you please; I have got my pipe, too.--See what a beautiful head!

CHAPTER XII.

DISCUSSION.

    I will converse with iron-witted fools
    And unrespective boys--none are for me
    That look into me with suspicious eyes.

Richard III.

"How now, Jekyl!" said Lord Etherington, eagerly; "what news from the enemy?--Have you seen him?"

"I have," replied Jekyl.

"And in what humour did you find him?--in none that was very favourable, I dare say, for you
have a baffled and perplexed look, that confesses a losing game--I have often warned you how
your hang-dog look betrays you at brag--And then, when you would fain brush up your courage,
and put a good face on a bad game, your bold looks always remind me of a standard hoisted only
half-mast high, and betraying melancholy and dejection, instead of triumph and defiance."

"I am only holding the cards for your lordship at present," answered Jekyl; "and I wish to
Heaven there may be no one looking over the hand."

"How do you mean by that?"

"Why, I was beset, on returning through the wood, by an old bore, a Nabob, as they call him,
and Touchwood by name."

"I have seen such a quiz about," said Lord Etherington--"What of him?"

"Nothing," answered Jekyl, "except that he seemed to know much more of your affairs than you
would wish or are aware of. He smoked the truth of the rencontre betwixt Tyrrel and you, and
what is worse--I must needs confess the truth--he contrived to wring out of me a sort of confirmation
of his suspicions."

"'Slife! wert thou mad?" said Lord Etherington, turning pale; "His is the very tongue to send
the story through the whole country--Hal, you have undone me."

"I hope not," said Jekyl; "I trust in Heaven I have not!--His knowledge is quite general--only
that there was some scuffle between you--Do not look so dismayed about it, or I will e'en go
back and cut his throat, to secure his secrecy."

"Cursed indiscretion!" answered the Earl--"how could you let him fix on you at all?"

"I cannot tell," said Jekyl--"he has powers of boring beyond ten of the dullest of all possible
doctors--stuck like a limpet to a rock--a perfect double of the Old Man of the Sea, who I take
to have been the greatest bore on record."

"Could you not have turned him on his back like a turtle, and left him there?" said Lord Etherington.

"And had an ounce of lead in my body for my pains? No--no--we have already had footpad work
enough--I promise you the old buck was armed, as if he meant to bing folks on the low toby."[II-8]

"Well--well--But Martigny, or Tyrrel, as you call him--what says he?"

"Why, Tyrrel, or Martigny, as your lordship calls him," answered Jekyl, "will by no means listen
to your lordship's proposition. He will not consent that Miss Mowbray's happiness shall be
placed in your lordship's keeping; nay, it did not meet his approbation a bit the more, when
I hinted at the acknowledgment of the marriage, or the repetition of the ceremony, attended
by an immediate separation, which I thought I might venture to propose."

"And on what grounds does he refuse so reasonable an accommodation?" said Lord Etherington--"Does
he still seek to marry the girl himself?"

"I believe he thinks the circumstances of the case render that impossible," replied his confidant.

"What? then he would play the dog in the manger--neither eat nor let eat?--He shall find himself
mistaken. She has used me like a dog, Jekyl, since I saw you; and, by Jove! I will have her,
that I may break her pride, and cut him to the liver with the agony of seeing it."

"Nay, but hold--hold!" said Jekyl; "perhaps I have something to say on his part, that may be
a better compromise than all you could have by teasing him. He is willing to purchase what
he calls Miss Mowbray's tranquillity, at the expense of his resignation of his claims to your
father's honours and estate; and he surprised me very much, my lord, by showing me this list
of documents, which, I am afraid, makes his success more than probable, if there really are
such proofs in existence." Lord Etherington took the paper, and seemed to read with much attention,
while Jekyl proceeded,--"He has written to procure these evidences from the person with whom
they are deposited."

"We shall see what like they are when they arrive," said Lord Etherington.--"They come by post,
I suppose?"

"Yes; and may be immediately expected," answered Jekyl.

"Well--he is my brother on one side of the house, at least," said Lord Etherington; "and I
should not much like to have him lagged for forgery, which I suppose will be the end of his
bolstering up an unsubstantial plea by fabricated documents--I should like to see these same
papers he talks of."

"But, my lord," replied Jekyl, "Tyrrel's allegation is, that you have seen them; and that copies,
at least, were made out for you, and are in your possession--such is his averment."

"He lies," answered Lord Etherington, "so far as he pretends I know of such papers. I consider
the whole story as froth--foam--fudge, or whatever is most unsubstantial. It will prove such
when the papers appear, if indeed they ever will appear. The whole is a bully from beginning
to end; and I wonder at thee, Jekyl, for being so thirsty after syllabub, that you can swallow
such whipt cream as that stuff amounts to. No, no--I know my advantage, and shall use it so
as to make all their hearts bleed. As for these papers, I recollect now that my agent talked
of copies of some manuscripts having been sent him, but the originals were not then forthcoming;
and I'll bet the long odds that they never are--mere fabrications--if I thought otherwise,
would I not tell you?"

"Certainly, I hope you would, my lord," said Jekyl; "for I see no chance of my being useful
to you, unless I have the honour to enjoy your confidence."

"You do--you do, my friend," said Etherington, shaking him by the hand; "and since I must consider
your present negotiation as failed, I must devise some other mode of settling with this mad
and troublesome fellow."

"No violence, my lord," said Jekyl, once more, and with much emphasis.

"None--none--none, by Heaven!--Why, thou suspicious wretch, must I swear, to quell your scruples?--On
the contrary, it shall not be my fault, if we are not on decent terms."

"It would be infinitely to the advantage of both your characters if you could bring that to
pass," answered Jekyl; "and if you are serious in wishing it, I will endeavour to prepare Tyrrel.
He comes to the Well or to the ordinary to-day, and it would be highly ridiculous to make a scene."

"True, true; find him out, my dear Jekyl, and persuade him how foolish it will be to bring
our family quarrels out before strangers, and for their amusement. They shall see the two bears
can meet without biting.--Go--go--I will follow you instantly--go, and remember you have my
full and exclusive confidence.--Go, half-bred, startling fool!" he continued, the instant Jekyl
had left the room, "with just spirits enough to ensure your own ruin, by hurrying you into
what you are not up to.--But he has character in the world--is brave--and one of those whose
countenance gives a fair face to a doubtful business. He is my creature, too--I have bought
and paid for him, and it would be idle extravagance not to make use of him--But as to confidence--no
confidence, honest Hal, beyond that which cannot be avoided. If I wanted a confidant, here
comes a better than thou by half--Solmes has no scruples--he will always give me money's worth
of zeal and secrecy for money."

His lordship's valet at this moment entered the apartment, a grave, civil-looking man, past
the middle age, with a sallow complexion, a dark thoughtful eye, slow, and sparing of speech,
and sedulously attentive to all the duties of his situation.

"Solmes,"--said Lord Etherington, and then stopped short.

"My lord"--There was a pause; and when Lord Etherington had again said, "Solmes!" and his valet
had answered, "Your lordship," there was a second pause; until the Earl, as if recollecting
himself, "Oh! I remember what I wished to say--it was about the course of post here. It is
not very regular, I believe?"

"Regular enough, my lord, so far as concerns this place--the people in the Aultoun do not get
their letters in course."

"And why not, Solmes?" said his lordship.

"The old woman who keeps the little inn there, my lord, is on bad terms with the post-mistress--the
one will not send for the letters, and the other will not dispatch them to the village; so,
betwixt them, they are sometimes lost or mislaid, or returned to the General Post-office."

"I wish that may not be the case of a packet which I expect in a few days--it should have been
here already, or, perhaps, it may arrive in the beginning of the week--it is from that formal
ass, Trueman the Quaker, who addresses me by my Christian and family name, Francis Tyrrel.
He is like enough to mistake the inn, too, and I should be sorry it fell into Monsieur Martigny's
hands--I suppose you know he is in that neighbourhood?--Look after its safety, Solmes--quietly,
you understand; because people might put odd constructions, as if I were wanting a letter which
was not my own."

"I understand perfectly, my lord," said Solmes, without exhibiting the slightest change in
his sallow countenance, though entirely comprehending the nature of the service required.

"And here is a note will pay for postage," said the Earl, putting into his valet's hand a bank-bill
of considerable value; "and you may keep the balance for occasional expenses."

This was also fully understood; and Solmes, too politic and cautious even to look intelligence,
or acknowledge gratitude, made only a bow of acquiescence, put the note into his pocketbook,
and assured his lordship that his commands should be punctually attended to.

"There goes the agent for my money, and for my purpose," said Lord Etherington, exultingly;
"no extorting of confidence, no demanding of explanations, no tearing off the veil with which
a delicate manoeuvre is gazé--all excuses are received as argent comptant, provided only, that
the best excuse of all, the argent comptant itself, come to recommend them.--Yet I will trust
no one--I will out, like a skilful general, and reconnoitre in person."

With this resolution, Lord Etherington put on his surtout and cap, and sallying from his apartments,
took the way to the bookseller's shop, which also served as post-office and circulating library;
and being in the very centre of the parade, (for so is termed the broad terrace walk which
leads from the inn to the Well,) it formed a convenient lounging-place for newsmongers and
idlers of every description.

The Earl's appearance created, as usual, a sensation upon the public promenade; but whether
it was the suggestion of his own alarmed conscience, or that there was some real cause for
the remark, he could not help thinking his reception was of a more doubtful character than
usual. His fine figure and easy manners produced their usual effect, and all whom he spoke
to received his attention as an honour; but none offered, as usual, to unite themselves to
him, or to induce him to join their party. He seemed to be looked on rather as an object of
observation and attention, than as making one of the company; and to escape from a distant
gaze, which became rather embarrassing, he turned into the little emporium of news and literature.

He entered unobserved, just as Lady Penelope had finished reading some verses, and was commenting
upon them with all the alacrity of a femme savante, in possession of something which no one
is to hear repeated oftener than once.

"Copy--no indeed!" these were the snatches which reached Lord Etherington's ear, from the group
of which her ladyship formed the centre--"honour bright--I must not betray poor Chatterly--besides,
his lordship is my friend, and a person of rank, you know--so one would not--You have not got
the book, Mr. Pott?--you have not got Statius?--you never have any thing one longs to see."

"Very sorry, my lady--quite out of copies at present--I expect some in my next monthly parcel."

"Good lack, Mr. Pott, that is your never-failing answer," said Lady Penelope; "I believe if
I were to ask you for the last new edition of the Alkoran, you would tell me it was coming
down in your next monthly parcel."

"Can't say, my lady, really," answered Mr. Pott; "have not seen the work advertised yet; but
I have no doubt, if it is likely to take, there will be copies in my next monthly parcel."

"Mr. Pott's supplies are always in the paullo post futurum tense," said Mr. Chatterly, who
was just entering the shop.

"Ah! Mr. Chatterly, are you there?" said Lady Penelope; "I lay my death at your door--I cannot
find this Thebaid, where Polynices and his brother"----

"Hush, my lady!--hush, for Heaven's sake!" said the poetical divine, and looked towards Lord
Etherington. Lady Penelope took the hint, and was silent; but she had said enough to call up
the traveller Touchwood, who raised his head from the newspaper which he was studying, and,
without addressing his discourse to any one in particular, ejaculated, as if in scorn of Lady
Penelope's geography--

"Polynices?--Polly Peachum.--There is no such place in the Thebais--the Thebais is in Egypt--the
mummies come from the Thebais--I have been in the catacombs--caves very curious indeed--we
were lapidated by the natives--pebbled to some purpose, I give you my word. My janizary thrashed
a whole village by way of retaliation."

While he was thus proceeding, Lord Etherington, as if in a listless mood, was looking at the
letters which stood ranged on the chimney-piece, and carrying on a languid dialogue with Mrs.
Pott, whose person and manners were not ill adapted to her situation, for she was good-looking,
and vastly fine and affected.

"Number of letters here which don't seem to find owners, Mrs. Pott?"

"Great number, indeed, my lord--it is a great vexation, for we are obliged to return them to
the post-office, and the postage is charged against us if they are lost; and how can one keep
sight of them all?"

"Any love-letters among them, Mrs. Pott?" said his lordship, lowering his tone.

"Oh, fie! my lord, how should I know?" answered Mrs. Pott, dropping her voice to the same cadence.

"Oh! every one can tell a love-letter--that has ever received one, that is--one knows them
without opening--they are always folded hurriedly and sealed carefully--and the direction manifests
a kind of tremulous agitation, that marks the state of the writer's nerves--that now,"--pointing
with his switch to a letter upon the chimney-piece, "that must be a love-letter."

"He, he, he!" giggled Mrs. Pott, "I beg pardon for laughing, my lord--but--he, he, he!--that
is a letter from one Bindloose, the banker body, to the old woman Luckie Dods, as they call
her, at the change-house in the Aultoun."

"Depend upon it then, Mrs. Pott, that your neighbour, Mrs. Dods, has got a lover in Mr. Bindloose--unless
the banker has been shaking hands with the palsy. Why do you not forward her letter?--you are
very cruel to keep it in durance here."

"Me forward!" answered Mrs. Pott; "the cappernoity, old, girning alewife, may wait long enough
or I forward it--She'll not loose the letters that come to her by the King's post, and she
must go on troking wi' the old carrier, as if there was no post-house in the neighbourhood.
But the solicitor will be about wi' her one of these days."

"Oh! you are too cruel--you really should send the love-letter; consider, the older she is,
the poor soul has the less time to lose."

But this was a topic on which Mrs. Pott understood no jesting. She was well aware of our matron's
inveteracy against her and her establishment, and she resented it as a placeman resents the
efforts of a radical. She answered something sulkily, "That they that loosed letters should
have letters; and neither Luckie Dods, nor any of her lodgers, should ever see the scrape of
a pen from the St. Ronan's office, that they did not call for and pay for."

It is probable that this declaration contained the essence of the information which Lord Etherington
had designed to extract by his momentary flirtation with Mrs. Pott; for when, retreating as
it were from this sore subject, she asked him, in a pretty mincing tone, to try his skill in
pointing out another love-letter, he only answered carelessly, "that in order to do that he
must write her one;" and leaving his confidential station by her little throne, he lounged
through the narrow shop, bowed slightly to Lady Penelope as he passed, and issued forth upon
the parade, where he saw a spectacle which might well have appalled a man of less self-possession
than himself.

Just as he left the shop, little Miss Digges entered almost breathless, with the emotion of
impatience and of curiosity. "Oh la! my lady, what do you stay here for?--Mr. Tyrrel has just
entered the other end of the parade this moment, and Lord Etherington is walking that way--they
must meet each other.--O lord! come, come away, and see them meet!--I wonder if they'll speak--I
hope they won't fight--Oh la! do come, my lady!"

"I must go with you, I find," said Lady Penelope; "it is the strangest thing, my love, that
curiosity of yours about other folk's matters--I wonder what your mamma will say to it."

"Oh! never mind mamma--nobody minds her--papa, nor nobody--Do come, dearest Lady Pen, or I
will run away by myself.--Mr. Chatterly, do make her come!"

"I must come, it seems," said Lady Penelope, "or I shall have a pretty account of you."

But, notwithstanding this rebuke, and forgetting, at the same time, that people of quality
ought never to seem in a hurry, Lady Penelope, with such of her satellites as she could hastily
collect around her, tripped along the parade with unusual haste, in sympathy, doubtless, with
Miss Digges's curiosity, as her ladyship declared she had none of her own.

Our friend, the traveller, had also caught up Miss Digges's information; and, breaking off
abruptly an account of the Great Pyramid, which had been naturally introduced by the mention
of the Thebais, and echoing the fair alarmist's words, "hope they won't fight," he rushed upon
the parade, and bustled along as hard as his sturdy supporters could carry him. If the gravity
of the traveller, and the delicacy of Lady Penelope, were surprised into unwonted haste from
their eagerness to witness the meeting of Tyrrel and Lord Etherington, it may be well supposed
that the decorum of the rest of the company was a slender restraint on their curiosity, and
that they hurried to be present at the expected scene, with the alacrity of gentlemen of the
fancy hastening to a set-to.

In truth, though the meeting afforded little sport to those who expected dire conclusions,
it was, nevertheless, sufficiently interesting to those spectators who are accustomed to read
the language of suppressed passion betraying itself at the moment when the parties are most
desirous to conceal it.

Tyrrel had been followed by several loiterers so soon as he entered the public walk; and their
number was now so much reinforced, that he saw himself with pain and displeasure the centre
of a sort of crowd who watched his motions. Sir Bingo and Captain MacTurk were the first to
bustle through it, and to address him with as much politeness as they could command.

"Servant, sir," mumbled Sir Bingo, extending the right hand of fellowship and reconciliation,
ungloved. "Servant--sorry that anything should have happened between us--very sorry, on my word."

"No more need be said, sir," replied Tyrrel; "the whole is forgotten."

"Very handsome, indeed--quite the civil thing--hope to meet you often, sir."--And here the
knight was silent.

Meanwhile, the more verbose Captain proceeded, "Och, py Cot, and it was an awfu' mistake, and
I could draw the penknife across my finger for having written the word.--By my sowl, and I
scratched it till I scratched a hole in the paper.--Och! that I should live to do an uncivil
thing by a gentleman that had got himself hit in an honourable affair! But you should have
written, my dear; for how the devil could we guess that you were so well provided in quarrels,
that you had to settle two in one day!"

"I was hurt in an unexpected--an accidental manner, Captain MacTurk. I did not write, because
there was something, in my circumstances at the moment which required secrecy; but I was resolved,
the instant I recovered, to put myself to rights in your good opinion."

"Och! and you have done that," said the Captain, nodding sagaciously; "for Captain Jekyl, who
is a fine child, has put us all up to your honourable conduct. They are pretty boys, these
guardsmen, though they may play a little fine sometimes, and think more of themselves than
peradventure they need for to do, in comparison with us of the line.--But he let us know all
about it--and, though he said not a word of a certain fine lord, with his footpad, and his
hurt, and what not, yet we all knew how to lay that and that together.--And if the law would
not right you, and there were bad words between you, why should not two gentlemen right themselves?
And as to your being kinsmen, why should not kinsmen behave to each other like men of honour?
Only, some say you are father's sons, and that is something too near.--I had once thoughts
of calling out my uncle Dougal myself, for there is no saying where the line should be drawn;
but I thought, on the whole, there should be no fighting, as there is no marriage, within the
forbidden degrees. As for first cousins--Wheugh!--that's all fair--fire away, Flanigan!--But
here is my lord, just upon us, like a stag of the first head, and the whole herd behind him."

Tyrrel stepped forward a little before his officious companions, his complexion rapidly changing
into various shades, like that of one who forces himself to approach and touch some animal
or reptile for which he entertains that deep disgust and abhorrence which was anciently ascribed
to constitutional antipathy. This appearance of constraint put upon himself, with the changes
which it produced on his face, was calculated to prejudice him somewhat in the opinion of the
spectators, when compared with the steady, stately, yet, at the same time, easy demeanour of
the Earl of Etherington, who was equal to any man in England in the difficult art of putting
a good countenance on a bad cause. He met Tyrrel with an air as unembarrassed, as it was cold;
and, while he paid the courtesy of a formal and distant salutation, he said aloud, "I presume,
Mr. Tyrrel de Martigny, that, since you have not thought fit to avoid this awkward meeting,
you are disposed to remember our family connexion so far as to avoid making sport for the good
company?"

"You have nothing to apprehend from my passion, Mr. Bulmer," replied Tyrrel, "if you can assure
yourself against the consequences of your own."

"I am glad of that," said the Earl, with the same composure, but sinking his voice so as only
to be heard by Tyrrel; "and as we may not again in a hurry hold any communication together,
I take the freedom to remind you, that I sent you a proposal of accommodation by my friend,
Mr. Jekyl."

"It was inadmissible," said Tyrrel--"altogether inadmissible--both from reasons which you may
guess, and others which it is needless to detail.--I sent you a proposition, think of it well."

"I will," replied Lord Etherington, "when I shall see it supported by those alleged proofs,
which I do not believe ever had existence."

"Your conscience holds another language from your tongue," said Tyrrel; "but I disclaim reproaches,
and decline altercation. I will let Captain Jekyl know when I have received the papers, which,
you say, are essential to your forming an opinion on my proposal.--In the meanwhile, do not
think to deceive me. I am here for the very purpose of watching and defeating your machinations;
and, while I live, be assured they shall never succeed.--And now, sir--or my lord--for the
titles are in your choice--fare you well."

"Hold a little," said Lord Etherington. "Since we are condemned to shock each other's eyes,
it is fit the good company should know what they are to think of us. You are a philosopher,
and do not value the opinion of the public--a poor worldling like me is desirous to stand fair
with it.--Gentlemen," he continued, raising his voice, "Mr. Winterblossom, Captain MacTurk,
Mr.--what is his name, Jekyl?--Ay, Micklehen--You have, I believe, all some notion, that this
gentleman, my near relation, and I, have some undecided claims on each other, which prevent
our living upon good terms. We do not mean, however, to disturb you with our family quarrels;
and, for my own part, while this gentleman, Mr. Tyrrel, or whatever he may please to call himself,
remains a member of this company, my behaviour to him will be the same as to any stranger who
may have that advantage.--Good morrow to you, sir--Good morning, gentlemen--we all meet at
dinner, as usual.--Come, Jekyl."

So saying, he took Jekyl by the arm, and, gently extricating himself from the sort of crowd,
walked off, leaving most of the company prepossessed in his favour, by the ease and apparent
reasonableness of his demeanour. Sounds of depreciation, forming themselves indistinctly into
something like the words, "my eye, and Betty Martin," did issue from the neckcloth of Sir Bingo,
but they were not much attended to; for it had not escaped the observation of the quicksighted
gentry at the Well, that the Baronet's feelings towards the noble Earl were in the inverse
ratio of those displayed by Lady Binks, and that, though ashamed to testify, or perhaps incapable
of feeling, any anxious degree of jealousy, his temper had been for some time considerably
upon the fret; a circumstance concerning which his fair moiety did not think it necessary to
give herself any concern.

Meanwhile, the Earl of Etherington walked onward with his confidant, in the full triumph of
successful genius.

"You see," he said, "Jekyl, that I can turn a corner with any man in England. It was a proper
blunder of yours, that you must extricate the fellow from the mist which accident had flung
around him--you might as well have published the story of our rencontre at once, for every
one can guess it, by laying time, place, and circumstance together; but never trouble your
brains for a justification. You marked how I assumed my natural superiority over him--towered
up in the full pride of legitimacy--silenced him even where the good company most do congregate.
This will go to Mowbray through his agent, and will put him still madder on my alliance. I
know he looks jealously on my flirtation with a certain lady--the dasher yonder--nothing makes
a man sensible of the value of an opportunity, but the chance of losing it."

"I wish to Heaven you would give up thoughts of Miss Mowbray!" said Jekyl; "and take Tyrrel's
offer, if he has the means of making it good."

"Ay, if--if. But I am quite sure he has no such rights as he pretends to, and that his papers
are all a deception.--Why do you put your eye upon me as fixed as if you were searching out
some wonderful secret?"

"I wish I knew what to think of your real bona fide belief respecting these documents," said
Jekyl, not a little puzzled by the steady and unembarrassed air of his friend.

"Why, thou most suspicious of coxcombs," said Etherington, "what the devil would you have me
say to you?--Can I, as the lawyers say, prove a negative? or, is it not very possible, that
such things may exist, though I have never seen or heard of them? All I can say is, that of
all men I am the most interested to deny the existence of such documents; and, therefore, certainly
will not admit of it, unless I am compelled to do so by their being produced; nor then either,
unless I am at the same time well assured of their authenticity."

"I cannot blame you for your being hard of faith, my lord," said Jekyl; "but still I think
if you can cut out with your earldom, and your noble hereditary estate, I would, in your case,
pitch Nettlewood to the devil."

"Yes, as you pitched your own patrimony, Jekyl; but you took care to have the spending of it
first.--What would you give for such an opportunity of piecing your fortunes by marriage?--Confess
the truth."

"I might be tempted, perhaps," said Jekyl, "in my present circumstances; but if they were what
they have been, I should despise an estate that was to be held by petticoat tenure, especially
when the lady of the manor was a sickly fantastic girl, that hated me, as this Miss Mowbray
has the bad taste to hate you."

"Umph--sickly?--no, no, she is not sickly--she is as healthy as any one in constitution--and,
on my word, I think her paleness only renders her more interesting. The last time I saw her,
I thought she might have rivalled one of Canova's finest statues."

"Yes; but she is indifferent to you--you do not love her," said Jekyl.

"She is any thing but indifferent to me," said the Earl; "she becomes daily more interesting--for
her dislike piques me; and besides, she has the insolence openly to defy and contemn me before
her brother, and in the eyes of all the world. I have a kind of loving hatred--a sort of hating
love for her; in short, thinking upon her is like trying to read a riddle, and makes one make
quite as many blunders, and talk just as much nonsense. If ever I have the opportunity, I will
make her pay for all her airs."

"What airs?" said Jekyl.

"Nay, the devil may describe them, for I cannot; but, for example--Since her brother has insisted
on her receiving me, or I should rather say on her appearing when I visit Shaws-Castle, one
would think her invention has toiled in discovering different ways of showing want of respect
to me, and dislike to my presence. Instead of dressing herself as a lady should, especially
on such occasions, she chooses some fantastic, or old-fashioned, or negligent bedizening, which
makes her at least look odd, if it cannot make her ridiculous--such triple tiaras of various-coloured
gauze on her head--such pieces of old tapestry, I think, instead of shawls and pelisses--such
thick-soled shoes--such tan-leather gloves--mercy upon us, Hal, the very sight of her equipment
would drive mad a whole conclave of milliners! Then her postures are so strange--she does so
stoop and lollop, as the women call it, so cross her legs and square her arms--were the goddess
of grace to look down on her, it would put her to flight for ever!"

"And you are willing to make this awkward, ill-dressed, unmannered dowdy, your Countess, Etherington;
you, for whose critical eye half the town dress themselves?" said Jekyl.

"It is all a trick, Hal--all an assumed character to get rid of me, to disgust me, to baffle
me; but I am not to be had so easily. The brother is driven to despair--he bites his nails,
winks, coughs, makes signs, which she always takes up at cross-purpose.--I hope he beats her
after I go away; there would be a touch of consolation, were one but certain of that."

"A very charitable hope, truly, and your present feelings might lead the lady to judge what
she may expect after wedlock. But," added Jekyl, "cannot you, so skilful in fathoming every
mood of the female mind, divine some mode of engaging her in conversation?"

"Conversation!" replied the Earl; "why, ever since the shock of my first appearance was surmounted,
she has contrived to vote me a nonentity; and that she may annihilate me completely, she has
chosen, of all occupations, that of working a stocking! From what cursed old antediluvian,
who lived before the invention of spinning-jennies, she learned this craft, Heaven only knows;
but there she sits, with her work pinned to her knee--not the pretty taper silken fabric, with
which Jeannette of Amiens coquetted, while Tristram Shandy was observing her progress; but
a huge worsted bag, designed for some flat-footed old pauper, with heels like an elephant--And
there she squats, counting all the stitches as she works, and refusing to speak, or listen,
or look up, under pretence that it disturbs her calculation!"

"An elegant occupation, truly, and I wonder it does not work a cure upon her noble admirer,"
said Jekyl.

"Confound her--no--she shall not trick me. And then amid this affectation of vulgar stolidity,
there break out such sparkles of exultation, when she thinks she has succeeded in baffling
her brother, and in plaguing me, that, by my faith, Hal, I could not tell, were it at my option,
whether to kiss or to cuff her."

"You are determined to go on with this strange affair, then?" said Jekyl.

"On--on--on, my boy!--Clara and Nettlewood for ever!" answered the Earl. "Besides this brother
of hers provokes me too--he does not do for me half what he might--what he ought to do. He
stands on points of honour, forsooth, this broken-down horse-jockey, who swallowed my two thousand
pounds as a pointer would a pat of butter.--I can see he wishes to play fast and loose--has
some suspicions, like you, Hal, upon the strength of my right to my father's titles and estate;
as if, with the tithe of the Nettlewood property alone, I would not be too good a match for
one of his beggarly family. He must scheme, forsooth, this half-baked Scotch cake!--He must
hold off and on, and be cautious, and wait the result, and try conclusions with me, this lump
of oatmeal dough!--I am much tempted to make an example of him in the course of my proceedings."

"Why, this is vengeance horrible and dire," said Jekyl; "yet I give up the brother to you;
he is a conceited coxcomb, and deserves a lesson. But I would fain intercede for the sister."

"We shall see"--replied the Earl; and then suddenly, "I tell you what it is, Hal; her caprices
are so diverting, that I sometimes think out of mere contradiction, I almost love her; at least,
if she would but clear old scores, and forget one unlucky prank of mine, it should be her own
fault if I did not make her a happy woman."

FOOTNOTE:

[II-8] "Rob as a footpad."

CHAPTER XIII.

A DEATH-BED.

    It comes--it wrings me in my parting hour,
    The long-hid crime--the well-disguised guilt.
    Bring me some holy priest to lay the spectre!

Old Play.

The general expectation of the company had been disappointed by the pacific termination of
the meeting betwixt the Earl of Etherington and Tyrrel, the anticipation of which had created
so deep a sensation. It had been expected that some appalling scene would have taken place;
instead of which, each party seemed to acquiesce in a sullen neutrality, and leave the war
to be carried on by their lawyers. It was generally understood that the cause was removed out
of the courts of Bellona into that of Themis; and although the litigants continued to inhabit
the same neighbourhood, and once or twice met at the public walks or public table, they took
no notice of each other, farther than by exchanging on such occasions, a grave and distant bow.

In the course of two or three days, people ceased to take interest in a feud so coldly conducted;
and if they thought of it at all, it was but to wonder that both the parties should persevere
in residing near the Spa, and in chilling, with their unsocial behaviour, a party met together
for the purposes of health and amusement.

But the brothers, as the reader is aware, however painful their occasional meetings might be,
had the strongest reasons to remain in each other's neighbourhood--Lord Etherington to conduct
his design upon Miss Mowbray, Tyrrel to disconcert his plan, if possible, and both to await
the answer which should be returned by the house in London, who were depositaries of the papers
left by the late Earl.

Jekyl, anxious to assist his friend as much as possible, made in the meantime a visit to old
Touchwood at the Aultoun, expecting to find him as communicative as he had formerly been on
the subject of the quarrel betwixt the brothers, and trusting to discover, by dint of address,
whence he had derived his information concerning the affairs of the noble house of Etherington.
But the confidence which he had been induced to expect on the part of the old traveller was
not reposed. Ferdinand Mendez Pinto, as the Earl called him, had changed his mind, or was not
in the vein of communication. The only proof of his confidence worth mentioning, was his imparting
to the young officer a valuable receipt for concocting curry-powder.

Jekyl was therefore reduced to believe that Touchwood, who appeared all his life to have been
a great intermeddler in other people's matters, had puzzled out the information which he appeared
to possess of Lord Etherington's affairs, through some of those obscure sources whence very
important secrets do frequently, to the astonishment and confusion of those whom they concern,
escape to the public. He thought this the more likely, as Touchwood was by no means critically
nice in his society, but was observed to converse as readily with a gentleman's gentleman,
as with the gentleman to whom he belonged, and with a lady's attendant, as with the lady herself.
He that will stoop to this sort of society, who is fond of tattle, being at the same time disposed
to pay some consideration for gratification of his curiosity, and not over scrupulous respecting
its accuracy, may always command a great quantity of private anecdote. Captain Jekyl naturally
enough concluded, that this busy old man became in some degree master of other people's affairs
by such correspondences as these; and he could himself bear witness to his success in cross-examination,
as he had been surprised into an avowal of the rencontre between the brothers, by an insidious
observation of the said Touchwood. He reported, therefore, to the Earl, after this interview,
that, on the whole, he thought he had no reason to fear much on the subject of the traveller,
who, though he had become acquainted, by some means or other, with some leading facts of his
remarkable history; only possessed them in a broken, confused, and desultory manner, insomuch
that he seemed to doubt whether the parties in the expected lawsuit were brothers or cousins,
and appeared totally ignorant of the facts on which it was to be founded.

It was the next day after this éclaircissement on the subject of Touchwood, that Lord Etherington
dropped as usual into the bookseller's shop, got his papers, and skimming his eye over the
shelf on which lay, till called for, the postponed letters destined for the Aultoun, saw with
a beating heart the smart post-mistress toss amongst them, with an air of sovereign contempt,
a pretty large packet, addressed to Francis Tyrrel, Esq. &c. He withdrew his eyes, as if conscious
that even to have looked on this important parcel might engender some suspicion of his purpose,
or intimate the deep interest which he took in the contents of the missive which was so slightly
treated by his friend Mrs. Pott. At this moment the door of the shop opened, and Lady Penelope
Penfeather entered, with her eternal pendante, the little Miss Digges.

"Have you seen Mr. Mowbray?--Has Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's been down this morning?--Do you
know any thing of Mr. Mowbray, Mrs. Pott?" were questions which the lettered lady eagerly huddled
on the back of each other, scarcely giving time to the lady of letters to return a decided
negative to all and each of them.

"Mr. Mowbray was not about--was not coming there this morning--his servant had just called
for letters and papers, and announced as much."

"Good Heaven! how unfortunate!" said Lady Penelope, with a deep sigh, and sinking down on one
of the little sofas in an attitude of shocking desolation, which called the instant attention
of Mr. Pott and his good woman, the first uncorking a small phial of salts, for he was a pharmacopolist
as well as vender of literature and transmitter of letters, and the other hastening for a glass
of water. A strong temptation thrilled from Lord Etherington's eyes to his finger-ends. Two
steps might have brought him within arm's-length of the unwatched packet, on the contents of
which, in all probability, rested the hope and claims of his rival in honour and fortune; and,
in the general confusion, was it impossible to possess himself of it unobserved? But no--no--no--the
attempt was too dreadfully dangerous to be risked; and, passing from one extreme to another,
he felt as if he was incurring suspicion by suffering Lady Penelope to play off her airs of
affected distress and anxiety, without seeming to take that interest in them which her rank
at least might be supposed to demand. Stung with this apprehension, he hastened to express
himself so anxiously on the subject, and to demonstrate so busily his wish to assist her ladyship,
that he presently stood committed a great deal farther than he had intended. Lady Penelope
was infinitely obliged to his lordship--indeed, it was her character in general not to permit
herself to be overcome by circumstances; but something had happened, so strange, so embarrassing,
so melancholy, that she owned it had quite overcome her--notwithstanding, she had at all times
piqued herself on supporting her own distresses, better than she was able to suppress her emotions
in viewing those of others.

"Could he be of any use?" Lord Etherington asked. "She had enquired after Mr. Mowbray of St.
Ronan's--his servant was at her ladyship's service, if she chose to send to command his attendance."

"Oh! no, no!" said Lady Penelope; "I dare say, my dear lord, you will answer the purpose a
great deal better than Mr. Mowbray--that is, provided you are a Justice of Peace."

"A Justice of Peace!" said Lord Etherington, much surprised; "I am in the commission unquestionably,
but not for any Scotch county."

"O, that does not signify," said Lady Penelope; "and if you will trust yourself with me a little
way, I will explain to you how you can do one of the most charitable, and kind, and generous
things in the world."

Lord Etherington's delight in the exercise of charity, kindness, and generosity, was not so
exuberant as to prevent his devising some means for evading Lady Penelope's request, when,
looking through the sash-door, he had a distant glance of his servant Solmes approaching the
Post-office.

I have heard of a sheep-stealer who had rendered his dog so skilful an accomplice in his nefarious
traffic, that he used to send him out to commit acts of felony by himself, and had even contrived
to impress on the poor cur the caution that he should not, on such occasions, seem even to
recognise his master, if they met accidentally.[II-9] Apparently, Lord Etherington conducted
himself upon a similar principle; for he had no sooner a glimpse of his agent, than he seemed
to feel the necessity of leaving the stage free for his machinations.

"My servant," he said, with as much indifference as he could assume, "will call for my letters--I
must attend Lady Penelope;" and, instantly proffering his services as Justice of the Peace,
or in whatever other quality she chose to employ them, he hastily presented his arm, and scarce
gave her ladyship time to recover from her state of languor to the necessary degree of activity,
ere he hurried her from the shop; and, with her thin hatchet-face chattering close to his ear,
her yellow and scarlet feathers crossing his nose, her lean right honourable arm hooking his
elbow, he braved the suppressed titters and sneers of all the younger women whom he met as
they traversed the parade. One glance of intelligence, though shot at a distance, passed betwixt
his lordship and Solmes, as the former left the public walk under the guidance of Lady Penelope,
his limbs indeed obeying her pleasure, and his ears dinned with her attempts to explain the
business in question, but his mind totally indifferent where he was going, or ignorant on what
purpose, and exclusively occupied with the packet in Mrs. Pott's heap of postponed letters,
and its probable fate.

At length an effort of recollection made Lord Etherington sensible that his abstraction must
seem strange, and, as his conscience told him, even suspicious in the eyes of his companion;
putting therefore the necessary degree of constraint upon himself, he expressed, for the first
time, curiosity to know where their walk was to terminate. It chanced, that this was precisely
the question which he needed not to have asked, if he had paid but the slightest attention
to the very voluble communications of her ladyship, which had all turned upon this subject.

"Now, my dear lord," she said, "I must believe you lords of the creation think us poor simple
women the vainest fools alive. I have told you how much pain it costs me to speak about my
little charities, and yet you come to make me tell you the whole story over again. But I hope,
after all, your lordship is not surprised at what I have thought it my duty to do in this sad
affair--perhaps I have listened too much to the dictates of my own heart, which are apt to
be so deceitful."

On the watch to get at something explanatory, yet afraid, by demanding it directly, to show
that the previous tide of narrative and pathos had been lost on an inattentive ear, Lord Etherington
could only say, that Lady Penelope could not err in acting according to the dictates of her
own judgment.

Still the compliment had not sauce enough for the lady's sated palate; so, like a true glutton
of praise, she began to help herself with the soup-ladle.

"Ah! judgment?--how is it you men know us so little, that you think we can pause to weigh sentiment
in the balance of judgment?--that is expecting rather too much from us poor victims of our
feelings. So that you must really hold me excused if I forgot the errors of this guilty and
unhappy creature, when I looked upon her wretchedness--Not that I would have my little friend,
Miss Digges, or your lordship, suppose that I am capable of palliating the fault, while I pity
the poor, miserable sinner. Oh, no--Walpole's verses express beautifully what one ought to
feel on such occasions--

    'For never was the gentle breast
      Insensible to human woes;
    Feeling, though firm, it melts distress'd
      For weaknesses it never knows.'"

"Most accursed of all précieuses," thought his lordship, "when wilt thou, amidst all thy chatter,
utter one word sounding like sense or information!"

But, Lady Penelope went on--"If you knew, my lord, how I lament my limited means on those occasions!
but I have gathered something among the good people at the Well. I asked that selfish wretch,
Winterblossom, to walk down with me to view her distress, and the heartless beast told me he
was afraid of infection!--infection from a puer--puerperal fever! I should not perhaps pronounce
the word, but science is of no sex--however, I have always used thieves' vinegar essence, and
never have gone farther than the threshold."

Whatever were Etherington's faults, he did not want charity, so far as it consists in giving alms.

"I am sorry," he said, taking out his purse, "your ladyship should not have applied to me."

"Pardon me, my lord, we only beg from our friends; and your lordship is so constantly engaged
with Lady Binks, that we have rarely the pleasure of seeing you in what I call my little circle."

Lord Etherington, without further answer, tendered a couple of guineas, and observed, that
the poor woman should have medical attendance.

"Why, so I say," answered Lady Penelope; "and I asked the brute Quackleben, who, I am sure,
owes me some gratitude, to go and see her; but the sordid monster answered, 'Who was to pay
him?'--He grows every day more intolerable, now that he seems sure of marrying that fat blowzy
widow. He could not, I am sure, expect that I--out of my pittance--And besides, my lord, is
there not a law that the parish, or the county, or the something or other, shall pay for physicking
the poor?"

"We will find means to secure the Doctor's attendance," said Lord Etherington; "and I believe
my best way will be to walk back to the Well, and send him to wait on the patient. I am afraid
I can be of little use to a poor woman in a childbed fever."

"Puerperal, my lord, puerperal," said Lady Penelope, in a tone of correction.

"In a puerperal fever, then," said Lord Etherington; "why, what can I do to help her?"

"Oh! my lord, you have forgotten that this Anne Heggie, that I told you of, came here with
one child in her arms--and another--in short, about to become a mother again--and settled herself
in this miserable hut I told you of--and some people think the minister should have sent her
to her own parish; but he is a strange, soft-headed, sleepy sort of man, not over active in
his parochial duties. However, there she settled, and there was something about her quite beyond
the style of a common pauper, my lord--not at all the disgusting sort of person that you give
a sixpence to while you look another way--but some one that seemed to have seen better days--one
that, as Shakspeare says, could a tale unfold--though, indeed, I have never thoroughly learned
her history--only, that to-day, as I called to know how she was, and sent my maid into her
hut with some trifle, not worth mentioning, I find there is something hangs about her mind
concerning the Mowbray family here of St. Ronan's--and my woman says the poor creature is dying,
and is raving either for Mr. Mowbray or for some magistrate to receive a declaration; and so
I have given you the trouble to come with me, that we may get out of the poor creature, if
possible, whatever she has got to say.--I hope it is not murder--I hope not--though young St.
Ronan's has been a strange, wild, daring, thoughtless creature--sgherro insigne, as the Italian
says.--But here is the hut, my lord--pray, walk in."

The mention of the St. Ronan's family, and of a secret relating to them, banished the thoughts
which Lord Etherington began to entertain of leaving Lady Penelope to execute her works of
devoted charity without his assistance. It was now with an interest equal to her own, that
he stood before a most miserable hut, where the unfortunate female, her distresses not greatly
relieved by Lady Penelope's ostentatious bounty, had resided both previous to her confinement,
and since that event had taken place, with an old woman, one of the parish poor, whose miserable
dole the minister had augmented, that she might have some means of assisting the stranger.

Lady Penelope lifted the latch and entered, after a momentary hesitation, which proceeded from
a struggle betwixt her fear of infection, and her eager curiosity to know something, she could
not guess what, that might affect the Mowbrays in their honour or fortunes. The latter soon
prevailed, and she entered, followed by Lord Etherington. The lady, like other comforters of
the cabins of the poor, proceeded to rebuke the grumbling old woman for want of order and cleanliness--censured
the food which was provided for the patient, and enquired particularly after the wine which
she had left to make caudle with. The crone was not so dazzled with Lady Penelope's dignity
or bounty as to endure her reprimand with patience. "They that had their bread to won wi' ae
arm," she said, for the other hung powerless by her side, "had mair to do than to soop hooses;
if her leddyship wad let her ain idle quean of a lass take the besom, she might make the house
as clean as she liked; and madam wad be a' the better of the exercise, and wad hae done, at
least, ae turn of wark at the week's end."

"Do you hear the old hag, my lord?" said Lady Penelope. "Well, the poor are horrid ungrateful
wretches--And the wine, dame--the wine?"

"The wine!--there was hardly half a mutchkin, and puir, thin, fusionless skink it was--the
wine was drank out, ye may swear--we didna fling it ower our shouther--if ever we were to get
good o't, it was by taking it naked, and no wi' your sugar and your slaisters--I wish, for
ane, I had ne'er kend the sour smack o't. If the bedral hadna gien me a drap of usquebaugh,
I might e'en hae died of your leddyship's liquor, for"----

Lord Etherington here interrupted the grumbling crone, thrusting some silver into her grasp,
and at the same time begging her to be silent. The hag weighed the crown-piece in her hand,
and crawled to her chimney-corner, muttering as she went,--"This is something like--this is
something like--no like rinning into the house and out of the house, and geeing orders, like
mistress and mair, and than a puir shilling again Saturday at e'en."

So saying, she sat down to her wheel, and seized, while she spun, her jet-black cutty pipe,
from which she soon sent such clouds of vile mundungus vapour as must have cleared the premises
of Lady Penelope, had she not been strong in purpose to share the expected confession of the
invalid. As for Miss Digges, she coughed, sneezed, retched, and finally ran out of the cottage,
declaring she could not live in such a smoke, if it were to hear twenty sick women's last speeches;
and that, besides, she was sure to know all about it from Lady Penelope, if it was ever so
little worth telling over again.

Lord Etherington was now standing beside the miserable flock-bed, in which lay the poor patient,
distracted, in what seemed to be her dying moments, with the peevish clamour of the elder infant,
to which she could only reply by low moans, turning her looks as well as she could from its
ceaseless whine to the other side of her wretched couch, where lay the unlucky creature to
which she had last given birth; its shivering limbs imperfectly covered with a blanket, its
little features already swollen and bloated, and its eyes scarce open, apparently insensible
to the evils of a state from which it seemed about to be speedily released.

"You are very ill, poor woman," said Lord Etherington; "I am told you desire a magistrate."

"It was Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's, whom I desired to see--John Mowbray of St. Ronan's--the
lady promised to bring him here."

"I am not Mowbray of St. Ronan's," said Lord Etherington; "but I am a justice of peace, and
a member of the legislature--I am, moreover, Mr. Mowbray's particular friend, if I can be of
use to you in any of these capacities."

The poor woman remained long silent, and when she spoke it was doubtfully.

"Is my Lady Penelope Penfeather there?" she said, straining her darkened eyes.

"Her ladyship is present, and within hearing," said Lord Etherington.

"My case is the worse," answered the dying woman, for so she seemed, "if I must communicate
such a secret as mine to a man of whom I know nothing, and a woman of whom I only know that
she wants discretion."

"I--I want discretion!" said Lady Penelope; but at a signal from Lord Etherington she seemed
to restrain herself; nor did the sick woman, whose powers of observation were greatly impaired,
seem to be aware of the interruption. She spoke, notwithstanding her situation, with an intelligible
and even emphatic voice; her manner in a great measure betraying the influence of the fever,
and her tone and language seeming much superior to her most miserable condition.

"I am not the abject creature which I seem," she said; "at least, I was not born to be so.
I wish I were that utter abject! I wish I were a wretched pauper of the lowest class--a starving
vagabond--a wifeless mother--ignorance and insensibility would make me bear my lot like the
outcast animal that dies patiently on the side of the common, where it has been half-starved
during its life. But I--but I--born and bred to better things, have not lost the memory of
them, and they make my present condition--my shame--my poverty--my infamy--the sight of my
dying babes--the sense that my own death is coming fast on--they make these things a foretaste
of hell!"

Lady Penelope's self-conceit and affectation were broken down by this fearful exordium. She
sobbed, shuddered, and, for once perhaps in her life, felt the real, not the assumed necessity,
of putting her handkerchief to her eyes. Lord Etherington also was moved.

"Good woman," he said, "as far as relieving your personal wants can mitigate your distress,
I will see that that is fully performed, and that your poor children are attended to."

"May God bless you!" said the poor woman, with a glance at the wretched forms beside her; "and
may you," she added, after a momentary pause, "deserve the blessing of God, for it is bestowed
in vain on those who are unworthy of it!"

Lord Etherington felt, perhaps, a twinge of conscience; for he said, something hastily, "Pray
go on, good woman, if you really have any thing to communicate to me as a magistrate--it is
time your condition was somewhat mended, and I will cause you to be cared for directly."

"Stop yet a moment," she said; "let me unload my conscience before I go hence, for no earthly
relief will long avail to prolong my time here.--I was well born, the more my present shame!
well educated, the greater my present guilt!--I was always, indeed, poor, but I felt not of
the ills of poverty. I only thought of it when my vanity demanded idle and expensive gratifications,
for real wants I knew none. I was companion of a young lady of higher rank than my own, my
relative however, and one of such exquisite kindness of disposition, that she treated me as
a sister, and would have shared with me all that she had on earth----I scarce think I can go
farther with my story!--something rises to my throat when I recollect how I rewarded her sisterly
love!--I was elder than Clara--I should have directed her reading, and confirmed her understanding;
but my own bent led me to peruse only works, which, though they burlesque nature, are seductive
to the imagination. We read these follies together, until we had fashioned out for ourselves
a little world of romance, and prepared ourselves for a maze of adventures. Clara's imaginations
were as pure as those of angels; mine were--but it is unnecessary to tell them. The fiend,
always watchful, presented a tempter at the moment when it was most dangerous."

She paused here, as if she found difficulty in expressing herself; and Lord Etherington, turning,
with great appearance of interest, to Lady Penelope, began to enquire, "Whether it were quite
agreeable to her ladyship to remain any longer an ear-witness of this unfortunate's confession?--it
seems to be verging on some things--things that it might be unpleasant for your ladyship to hear."

"I was just forming the same opinion, my lord; and, to say truth, was about to propose to your
lordship to withdraw, and leave me alone with the poor woman. My sex will make her necessary
communications more frank in your lordship's absence."

"True, madam; but then I am called here in my capacity of a magistrate."

"Hush!" said Lady Penelope; "she speaks."

"They say every woman that yields, makes herself a slave to her seducer; but I sold my liberty
not to a man, but a demon! He made me serve him in his vile schemes against my friend and patroness--and
oh! he found in me an agent too willing, from mere envy, to destroy the virtue which I had
lost myself. Do not listen to me any more--Go, and leave me to my fate! I am the most detestable
wretch that ever lived--detestable to myself worst of all, because even in my penitence there
is a secret whisper that tells me, that were I as I have been, I would again act over all the
wickedness I have done, and much worse. Oh! for Heaven's assistance, to crush the wicked thought!"

She closed her eyes, folded her emaciated hands, and held them upwards in the attitude of one
who prays internally; presently the hands separated, and fell gently down on the miserable
couch; but her eyes did not open, nor was there the slightest sign of motion in the features.
Lady Penelope shrieked faintly, hid her eyes, and hurried back from the bed, while Lord Etherington,
his looks darkening with a complication of feelings, remained gazing on the poor woman, as
if eager to discern whether the spark of life was totally extinct. Her grim old assistant hurried
to the bedside, with some spirits in a broken glass.

"Have ye no had pennyworths for your charity?" she said, in spiteful scorn. "Ye buy the very
life o' us wi' your shillings and sixpences, your groats and your boddles--ye hae garr'd the
puir wretch speak till she swarfs, and now ye stand as if ye never saw a woman in a dwam before?
Let me till her wi' the dram--mony words mickle drought, ye ken--Stand out o' my gate, my leddy,
if sae be that ye are a leddy; there is little use of the like of you when there is death in
the pot."

Lady Penelope, half affronted, but still more frightened by the manners of the old hag, now
gladly embraced Lord Etherington's renewed offer to escort her from the hut. He left it not,
however, without bestowing an additional gratuity on the old woman, who received it with a
whining benediction.

"The Almighty guide your course through the troubles of this wicked warld--and the muckle deevil
blaw wind in your sails," she added, in her natural tone, as the guests vanished from her miserable
threshold. "A wheen cork-headed, barmy-brained gowks! that wunna let puir folk sae muckle as
die in quiet, wi' their sossings and their soopings."[II-10]

"This poor creature's declaration," said Lord Etherington to Lady Penelope, "seems to refer
to matters which the law has nothing to do with, and which, perhaps, as they seem to implicate
the peace of a family of respectability, and the character of a young lady, we ought to enquire
no farther after."

"I differ from your lordship," said Lady Penelope; "I differ extremely--I suppose you guess
whom her discourse touched upon?"

"Indeed, your ladyship does my acuteness too much honour."

"Did she not mention a Christian name?" said Lady Penelope; "your lordship is strangely dull
this morning!"

"A Christian name?--No, none that I heard--yes, she said something about--a Catherine, I think
it was."

"Catherine!" answered the lady; "No, my lord, it was Clara--rather a rare name in this country,
and belonging, I think, to a young lady of whom your lordship should know something, unless
your evening flirtations with Lady Binks have blotted entirely out of your memory your morning
visits to Shaws-Castle. You are a bold man, my lord. I would advise you to include Mrs. Blower
among the objects of your attention, and then you will have maid, wife, and widow upon your list."

"Upon my honour, your ladyship is too severe," said Lord Etherington; "you surround yourself
every evening with all that is clever and accomplished among the people here, and then you
ridicule a poor secluded monster, who dare not approach your charmed circle, because he seeks
for some amusement elsewhere. This is to tyrannize and not to reign--it is Turkish despotism!"

"Ah! my lord, I know you well, my lord," said Lady Penelope--"Sorry would your lordship be,
had you not power to render yourself welcome to any circle which you may please to approach."

"That is to say," answered the lord, "you will pardon me if I intrude on your ladyship's coterie
this evening?"

"There is no society which Lord Etherington can think of frequenting, where he will not be
a welcome guest."

"I will plead then at once my pardon and privilege this evening--And now," (speaking as if
he had succeeded in establishing some confidence with her ladyship,) "what do you really think
of this blind story?"

"O, I must believe it concerns Miss Mowbray. She was always an odd girl--something about her
I could never endure--a sort of effrontery--that is, perhaps, a harsh word, but a kind of assurance--an
air of confidence--so that though I kept on a footing with her, because she was an orphan girl
of good family, and because I really knew nothing positively bad of her, yet she sometimes
absolutely shocked me."

"Your ladyship, perhaps, would not think it right to give publicity to the story? at least,
till you know exactly what it is," said the Earl, in a tone of suggestion.

"Depend upon it, that it is quite the worst, the very worst--You heard the woman say that she
had exposed Clara to ruin--and you know she must have meant Clara Mowbray, because she was
so anxious to tell the story to her brother, St. Ronan's."

"Very true--I did not think of that," answered Lord Etherington; "still it would be hard on
the poor girl if it should get abroad."

"O, it will never get abroad for me," said Lady Penelope; "I would not tell the very wind of
it. But then I cannot meet Miss Mowbray as formerly--I have a station in life to maintain,
my lord--and I am under the necessity of being select in my society--it is a duty I owe the
public, if it were even not my own inclination."

"Certainly, my Lady Penelope," said Lord Etherington; "but then consider, that, in a place
where all eyes are necessarily observant of your ladyship's behaviour, the least coldness on
your part to Miss Mowbray--and, after all, we have nothing like assurance of any thing being
wrong there--would ruin her with the company here, and with the world at large."

"Oh! my lord," answered Lady Penelope, "as for the truth of the story, I have some private
reasons of my own for 'holding the strange tale devoutly true;' for I had a mysterious hint
from a very worthy, but a very singular man, (your lordship knows how I adore originality,)
the clergyman of the parish, who made me aware there was something wrong about Miss Clara--something
that--your lordship will excuse my speaking more plainly,--Oh, no!--I fear--I fear it is all
too true--You know Mr. Cargill, I suppose, my lord?"

"Yes--no--I--I think I have seen him," said Lord Etherington. "But how came the lady to make
the parson her father-confessor?--they have no auricular confession in the Kirk--it must have
been with the purpose of marriage, I presume--let us hope that it took place--perhaps it really
was so--did he, Cargill--the minister, I mean--say any thing of such a matter?"

"Not a word--not a word--I see where you are, my lord; you would put a good face on't.--

    'They call'd it marriage, by that specious name
    To veil the crime, and sanctify the shame.'

Queen Dido for that. How the clergyman came into the secret I cannot tell--he is a very close
man. But I know he will not hear of Miss Mowbray being married to any one, unquestionably because
he knows that, in doing so, she would introduce disgrace into some honest family--and, truly,
I am much of his mind, my lord."

"Perhaps Mr. Cargill may know the lady is privately married already," said the Earl; "I think
that is the more natural inference, begging your ladyship's pardon for presuming to differ
in opinion."

Lady Penelope seemed determined not to take this view of the case.

"No, no--no, I tell you," she replied; "she cannot be married, for if she were married, how
could the poor wretch say that she was ruined?--You know there is a difference betwixt ruin
and marriage."

"Some people are said to have found them synonymous, Lady Penelope," answered the Earl.

"You are smart on me, my lord; but still, in common parlance, when we say a woman is ruined,
we mean quite the contrary of her being married--it is impossible for me to be more explicit
upon such a topic, my lord."

"I defer to your ladyship's better judgment," said Lord Etherington. "I only entreat you to
observe a little caution in this business--I will make the strictest enquiries of this woman,
and acquaint you with the result; and I hope, out of regard to the respectable family of St.
Ronan's, your ladyship will be in no hurry to intimate any thing to Miss Mowbray's prejudice."

"I certainly am no person to spread scandal, my lord," answered the lady, drawing herself up;
"at the same time, I must say, the Mowbrays have little claim on me for forbearance. I am sure
I was the first person to bring this Spa into fashion, which has been a matter of such consequence
to their estate; and yet Mr. Mowbray set himself against me, my lord, in every possible sort
of way, and encouraged the under-bred people about him to behave very strangely.--There was
the business of building the Belvidere, which he would not permit to be done out of the stock-purse
of the company, because I had given the workmen the plan and the orders--and then, about the
tea-room--and the hour for beginning dancing--and about the subscription for Mr. Rymour's new
Tale of Chivalry--in short, I owe no consideration to Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's."

"But the poor young lady?" said Lord Etherington.

"Oh! the poor young lady?--the poor young lady can be as saucy as a rich young lady, I promise
you.--There was a business in which she used me scandalously, Lord Etherington--it was about
a very trifling matter--a shawl. Nobody minds dress less than I do, my lord; I thank Heaven
my thoughts turn upon very different topics--but it is in trifles that disrespect and unkindness
are shown; and I have had a full share of both from Miss Clara, besides a good deal of impertinence
from her brother upon the same subject."

"There is but one way remains," thought the Earl, as they approached the Spa, "and that is
to work on the fears of this d--d vindictive blue-stocking'd wild-cat.--Your ladyship," he
said aloud, "is aware what severe damages have been awarded in late cases where something approaching
to scandal has been traced to ladies of consideration--the privileges of the tea-table have
been found insufficient to protect some fair critics against the consequences of too frank
and liberal animadversion upon the characters of their friends. So pray, remember, that as
yet we know very little on this subject."

Lady Penelope loved money, and feared the law; and this hint, fortified by her acquaintance
with Mowbray's love of his sister, and his irritable and revengeful disposition, brought her
in a moment much nearer the temper in which Lord Etherington wished to leave her. She protested,
that no one could be more tender than she of the fame of the unfortunate, even supposing their
guilt was fully proved--promised caution on the subject of the pauper's declaration, and hoped
Lord Etherington would join her tea-party early in the evening, as she wished to make him acquainted
with one or two of her protegés, whom, she was sure, his lordship would find deserving of his
advice and countenance. Being by this time at the door of her own apartment, her ladyship took
leave of the Earl with a most gracious smile.

FOOTNOTES:

[II-9] Note I.

[II-10] Note II.

CHAPTER XIV.

DISAPPOINTMENT.

    On the lee-beam lies the land, boys,
      See all clear to reef each course;
    Let the fore-sheet go, don't mind, boys,
      Though the weather should be worse.

The Storm.

"It darkens round me like a tempest," thought Lord Etherington, as, with slow step, folded
arms, and his white hat slouched over his brows, he traversed the short interval of space betwixt
his own apartments and those of the Lady Penelope. In a buck of the old school, one of Congreve's
men of wit and pleasure about town, this would have been a departure from character; but the
present fine man does not derogate from his quality, even by exhibiting all the moody and gentlemanlike
solemnity of Master Stephen.[II-C] So, Lord Etherington was at liberty to carry on his reflections,
without attracting observation.--"I have put a stopper into the mouth of that old vinegar-cruet
of quality, but the acidity of her temper will soon dissolve the charm--And what to do?"

As he looked round him, he saw his trusty valet Solmes, who, touching his hat with due respect,
said, as he passed him, "Your lordship's letters are in your private dispatch-box."

Simple as these words were, and indifferent the tone in which they were spoken, their import
made Lord Etherington's heart bound as if his fate had depended on the accents. He intimated
no farther interest in the communication, however, than to desire Solmes to be below, in case
he should ring; and with these words entered his apartment, and barred and bolted the door,
even before he looked on the table where his dispatch-box was placed.

Lord Etherington had, as is usual, one key to the box which held his letters, his confidential
servant being intrusted with the other; so that, under the protection of a patent lock, his
dispatches escaped all risk of being tampered with,--a precaution not altogether unnecessary
on the part of those who frequent hotels and lodging-houses.

"By your leave, Mr. Bramah," said the Earl, as he applied the key, jesting, as it were, with
his own agitation, as he would have done with that of a third party. The lid was raised, and
displayed the packet, the appearance and superscription of which had attracted his observation
but a short while before in the post-office. Then he would have given much to be possessed
of the opportunity which was now in his power; but many pause on the brink of a crime, who
have contemplated it at a distance without scruple. Lord Etherington's first impulse had led
him to poke the fire; and he held in his hand the letter which he was more than half tempted
to commit, without even breaking the seal, to the fiery element. But, though sufficiently familiarized
with guilt, he was not as yet acquainted with it in its basest shapes--he had not yet acted
with meanness, or at least with what the world terms such. He had been a duellist, the manners
of the age authorized it--a libertine, the world excused it to his youth and condition--a bold
and successful gambler, for that quality he was admired and envied; and a thousand other inaccuracies,
to which these practices and habits lead, were easily slurred over in a man of quality, with
fortune and spirit to support his rank. But his present meditated act was of a different kind.
Tell it not in Bond Street, whisper it not on St. James's pavement!--it amounted to an act
of petty larceny, for which the code of honour would admit of no composition.

Lord Etherington, under the influence of these recollections, stood for a few minutes suspended--But
the devil always finds logic to convince his followers. He recollected the wrong done to his
mother, and to himself, her offspring, to whom his father had, in the face of the whole world,
imparted the hereditary rights, of which he was now, by a posthumous deed, endeavouring to
deprive the memory of the one and the expectations of the other. Surely, the right being his
own, he had a full title, by the most effectual means, whatever such means might be, to repel
all attacks on that right, and even destroy, if necessary, the documents by which his enemies
were prosecuting their unjust plans against his honour and interest.

This reasoning prevailed, and Lord Etherington again held the devoted packet above the flames;
when it occurred to him, that, his resolution being taken, he ought to carry it into execution
as effectually as possible; and to do so, it was necessary to know, that the packet actually
contained the papers which he was desirous to destroy.

Never did a doubt arise in juster time; for no sooner had the seal burst, and the envelope
rustled under his fingers, than he perceived, to his utter consternation, that he held in his
hand only the copies of the deeds for which Francis Tyrrel had written, the originals of which
he had too sanguinely concluded would be forwarded according to his requisition. A letter from
a partner of the house with which they were deposited, stated, that they had not felt themselves
at liberty, in the absence of the head of their firm, to whom these papers had been committed,
to part with them even to Mr. Tyrrel, though they had proceeded so far as to open the parcel,
and now transmitted to him formal copies of the papers contained in it, which, they presumed,
would serve Mr. Tyrrel's purpose for consulting counsel, or the like. They themselves, in a
case of so much delicacy, and in the absence of their principal partner, were determined to
retain the originals, unless called to produce them in a court of justice.

With a solemn imprecation on the formality and absurdity of the writer, Lord Etherington let
the letter of advice drop from his hand into the fire, and throwing himself into a chair, passed
his hand across his eyes, as if their very power of sight had been blighted by what he had
read. His title, and his paternal fortune, which he thought but an instant before might be
rendered unchallengeable by a single movement of his hand, seemed now on the verge of being
lost for ever. His rapid recollection failed not to remind him of what was less known to the
world, that his early and profuse expenditure had greatly dilapidated his maternal fortune;
and that the estate of Nettlewood, which five minutes ago he only coveted as a wealthy man
desires increase of his store, must now be acquired, if he would avoid being a poor and embarrassed
spendthrift. To impede his possessing himself of this property, fate had restored to the scene
the penitent of the morning, who, as he had too much reason to believe, was returned to this
neighbourhood, to do justice to Clara Mowbray, and who was not unlikely to put the whole story
of the marriage on its right footing. She, however, might be got rid of; and it might still
be possible to hurry Miss Mowbray, by working on her fears, or through the agency of her brother,
into a union with him while he still preserved the title of Lord Etherington. This, therefore,
he resolved to secure, if effort or if intrigue could carry the point; nor was it the least
consideration, that, should he succeed, he would obtain over Tyrrel, his successful rival,
such a triumph, as would be sufficient to embitter the tranquillity of his whole life.

In a few minutes, his rapid and contriving invention had formed a plan for securing the sole
advantage which seemed to remain open for him; and conscious that he had no time to lose, he
entered immediately upon the execution.

The bell summoned Solmes to his lordship's apartment, when the Earl, as coolly as if he had
hoped to dupe his experienced valet by such an assertion, said, "You have brought me a packet
designed for some man at the Aultoun--let it be sent to him--Stay,--I will re-seal it first."

He accordingly re-sealed the packet, containing all the writings, excepting the letter of advice,
(which he had burnt,) and gave it to the valet, with the caution, "I wish you would not make
such blunders in future."

"I beg your lordship's pardon--I will take better care again--thought it was addressed to your
lordship."

So answered Solmes, too knowing to give the least look of intelligence, far less to remind
the Earl that his own directions had occasioned the mistake of which he complained.

"Solmes," continued the Earl, "you need not mention your blunder at the post-office; it would
only occasion tattle in this idle place--but be sure that the gentleman has his letter.--And,
Solmes, I see Mr. Mowbray walk across--ask him to dine with me to-day at five. I have a headache,
and cannot face the clamour of the savages who feed at the public table.--And let me see--make
my compliments to Lady Penelope Penfeather--I will certainly have the honour of waiting on
her ladyship this evening to tea, agreeably to her very boring invitation received--write her
a proper card, and word it your own way. Bespeak dinner for two, and see you have some of that
batch of Burgundy." The servant was retiring, when his master added, "Stay a moment--I have
a more important business than I have yet mentioned.--Solmes, you have managed devilish ill
about the woman Irwin!"

"I, my lord?" answered Solmes.

"Yes, you, sir--did you not tell me she had gone to the West Indies with a friend of yours,
and did not I give them a couple of hundred pounds for passage-money?"

"Yes, my lord," replied the valet.

"Ay, but now it proves no, my lord," said Lord Etherington; "for she has found her way back
to this country in miserable plight--half-starved, and, no doubt, willing to do or say any
thing for a livelihood--How has this happened?"

"Biddulph must have taken her cash, and turned her loose, my lord," answered Solmes, as if
he had been speaking of the most commonplace transaction in the world; "but I know the woman's
nature so well, and am so much master of her history, that I can carry her off the country
in twenty-four hours, and place her where she will never think of returning, provided your
lordship can spare me so long."

"About it directly--but I can tell you, that you will find the woman in a very penitential
humour, and very ill in health to boot."

"I am sure of my game," answered Solmes; "with submission to your lordship, I think if death
and her good angel had hold of one of that woman's arms, the devil and I could make a shift
to lead her away by the other."

"Away and about it, then," said Etherington. "But, hark ye, Solmes, be kind to her, and see
all her wants relieved. I have done her mischief enough--though nature and the devil had done
half the work to my hand."

Solmes at length was permitted to withdraw to execute his various commissions, with an assurance
that his services would not be wanted for the next twenty-four hours.

"Soh!" said the Earl, as his agent withdrew, "there is a spring put in motion, which, well
oiled, will move the whole machine--And here, in lucky time, comes Harry Jekyl--I hear his
whistle on the stairs.--There is a silly lightness of heart about that fellow, which I envy,
while I despise it; but he is welcome now, for I want him."

Jekyl entered accordingly, and broke out with "I am glad to see one of your fellows laying
a cloth for two in your parlour, Etherington--I was afraid you were going down among these
confounded bores again to-day."

"You are not to be one of the two, Hal," answered Lord Etherington.

"No?--then I may be a third, I hope, if not second?"

"Neither first, second, nor third, Captain.--The truth is, I want a tête-à-tête with Mr. Mowbray
of St. Ronan's," replied the Earl; "and, besides, I have to beg the very particular favour
of you to go again to that fellow Martigny. It is time that he should produce his papers, if
he has any--of which, for one, I do not believe a word. He has had ample time to hear from
London; and I think I have delayed long enough in an important matter upon his bare assertion."

"I cannot blame your impatience," said Jekyl, "and I will go on your errand instantly. As you
waited on my advice, I am bound to find an end to your suspense.--At the same time, if the
man is not possessed of such papers as he spoke of, I must own he is happy in a command of
consummate assurance, which might set up the whole roll of attorneys."

"You will be soon able to judge of that," said Lord Etherington; "and now, off with you--Why
do you look at me so anxiously?"

"I cannot tell--I have strange forebodings about this tête-à-tête with Mowbray. You should
spare him, Etherington--he is not your match--wants both judgment and temper."

"Tell him so, Jekyl," answered the Earl, "and his proud Scotch stomach will be up in an instant,
and he will pay you with a shot for your pains.--Why, he thinks himself cock of the walk, this
strutting bantam, notwithstanding the lesson I gave him before--And what do you think?--He
has the impudence to talk about my attentions to Lady Binks as inconsistent with the prosecution
of my suit to his sister! Yes, Hal--this awkward Scotch laird, that has scarce tact enough
to make love to a ewe-milker, or, at best, to some daggletailed soubrette, has the assurance
to start himself as my rival!"

"Then, good-night to St. Ronan's!--this will be a fatal dinner to him.--Etherington, I know
by that laugh you are bent on mischief--I have a great mind to give him a hint."

"I wish you would," answered the Earl; "it would all turn to my account."

"Do you defy me?--Well, if I meet him, I will put him on his guard."

The friends parted; and it was not long ere Jekyl encountered Mowbray on one of the public walks.

"You dine with Etherington to-day?" said the Captain--"Forgive me, Mr. Mowbray, if I say one
single word--Beware."

"Of what should I beware, Captain Jekyl," answered Mowbray, "when I dine with a friend of your
own, and a man of honour?"

"Certainly Lord Etherington is both, Mr. Mowbray; but he loves play, and is too hard for most
people."

"I thank you for your hint, Captain Jekyl--I am a raw Scotchman, it is true; but yet I know
a thing or two. Fair play is always presumed amongst gentlemen; and that taken for granted,
I have the vanity to think I need no one's caution on the subject, not even Captain Jekyl's,
though his experience must needs be so much superior to mine."

"In that case, sir," said Jekyl, bowing coldly, "I have no more to say, and I hope there is
no harm done.--Conceited coxcomb!" he added, mentally, as they parted, "how truly did Etherington
judge of him, and what an ass was I to intermeddle!--I hope Etherington will strip him of every
feather!"

He pursued his walk in quest of Tyrrel, and Mowbray proceeded to the apartments of the Earl,
in a temper of mind well suited to the purposes of the latter, who judged of his disposition
accurately when he permitted Jekyl to give his well-meant warning. To be supposed, by a man
of acknowledged fashion, so decidedly inferior to his antagonist--to be considered as an object
of compassion, and made the subject of a good-boy warning, was gall and bitterness to his proud
spirit, which, the more that he felt a conscious inferiority in the arts which they all cultivated,
struggled the more to preserve the footing of at least apparent equality.

Since the first memorable party at piquet, Mowbray had never hazarded his luck with Lord Etherington,
except for trifling stakes; but his conceit led him to suppose that he now fully understood
his play, and, agreeably to the practice of those who have habituated themselves to gambling,
he had every now and then felt a yearning to try for his revenge. He wished also to be out
of Lord Etherington's debt, feeling galled under a sense of pecuniary obligation, which hindered
his speaking his mind to him fully upon the subject of his flirtation with Lady Binks, which
he justly considered as an insult to his family, considering the footing on which the Earl
seemed desirous to stand with Clara Mowbray. From these obligations a favourable evening might
free him, and Mowbray was, in fact, indulging in a waking dream to this purpose, when Jekyl
interrupted him. His untimely warning only excited a spirit of contradiction, and a determination
to show the adviser how little he was qualified to judge of his talents; and in this humour,
his ruin, which was the consequence of that afternoon, was far from seeming to be the premeditated,
or even the voluntary work of the Earl of Etherington.

On the contrary, the victim himself was the first to propose play--deep play--double stakes;
while Lord Etherington, on the other hand, often proposed to diminish their game, or to break
off entirely; but it was always with an affectation of superiority which only stimulated Mowbray
to farther and more desperate risks; and, at last, when Mowbray became his debtor to an overwhelming
amount, (his circumstances considered,) the Earl threw down the cards, and declared he should
be too late for Lady Penelope's tea-party, to which he was positively engaged.

"Will you not give me my revenge?" said Mowbray, taking up the cards, and shuffling them with
fierce anxiety.

"Not now, Mowbray; we have played too long already--you have lost too much--more than perhaps
is convenient for you to pay."

Mowbray gnashed his teeth, in spite of his resolution to maintain an exterior, at least, of
firmness.

"You can take your time, you know," said the Earl; "a note of hand will suit me as well as
the money."

"No, by G--!" answered Mowbray, "I will not be so taken in a second time--I had better have
sold myself to the devil than to your lordship--I have never been my own man since."

"These are not very kind expressions, Mowbray," said the Earl; "you would play, and they that
will play must expect sometimes to lose"----

"And they who win will expect to be paid," said Mowbray, breaking in. "I know that as well
as you, my lord, and you shall be paid--I will pay you--I will pay you, by G--! Do you make
any doubt that I will pay you, my lord?"

"You look as if you thought of paying me in sharp coin," said Lord Etherington; "and I think
that would scarce be consistent with the terms we stand upon towards each other."

"By my soul, my lord," said Mowbray, "I cannot tell what these terms are; and to be at my wit's
end at once, I should be glad to know. You set out upon paying addresses to my sister, and
with your visits and opportunities at Shaws-Castle, I cannot find the matter makes the least
progress--it keeps moving without advancing, like a child's rocking-horse. Perhaps you think
that you have curbed me up so tightly, that I dare not stir in the matter; but you will find
it otherwise.--Your lordship may keep a haram if you will, but my sister shall not enter it."

"You are angry, and therefore you are unjust," said Etherington; "you know well enough it is
your sister's fault that there is any delay. I am most willing--most desirous--to call her
Lady Etherington--nothing but her unlucky prejudices against me have retarded a union which
I have so many reasons for desiring."

"Well," replied Mowbray, "that shall be my business. I know no reason she can pretend to decline
a marriage so honourable to her house, and which is approved of by me, that house's head. That
matter shall be arranged in twenty-four hours."

"It will do me the most sensible pleasure," said Lord Etherington; "you shall soon see how
sincerely I desire your alliance; and as for the trifle you have lost"----

"It is no trifle to me, my lord--it is my ruin--but it shall be paid--and let me tell your
lordship, you may thank your good luck for it more than your good play."

"We will say no more of it at present, if you please," said Lord Etherington, "to-morrow is
a new day; and if you will take my advice, you will not be too harsh with your sister. A little
firmness is seldom amiss with young women, but severity"----

"I will pray your lordship to spare me your advice on this subject. However valuable it may
be in other respects, I can, I take it, speak to my own sister in my own way."

"Since you are so caustically-disposed, Mowbray," answered the Earl, "I presume you will not
honour her ladyship's tea-table to-night, though I believe it will be the last of the season?"

"And why should you think so, my lord?" answered Mowbray, whose losses had rendered him testy
and contradictory upon every subject that was started. "Why should not I pay my respects to
Lady Penelope, or any other tabby of quality? I have no title, indeed; but I suppose that my
family"----

"Entitles you to become a canon of Strasburgh[II-D] doubtless--But you do not seem in a very
Christian mood for taking orders. All I meant to say was, that you and Lady Pen were not used
to be on such a good footing."

"Well, she sent me a card for her blow-out," said Mowbray; "and so I am resolved to go. When
I have been there half an hour, I will ride up to Shaws-Castle, and you shall hear of my speed
in wooing for you to-morrow morning."

CHAPTER XV.

A TEA-PARTY.

The approach of the cold and rainy season had now so far thinned the company at the Well, that,
in order to secure the necessary degree of crowd upon her tea-nights, Lady Penelope was obliged
to employ some coaxing towards those whom she had considered as much under par in society.
Even the Doctor and Mrs. Blower were graciously smiled upon--for their marriage was now an
arranged affair; and the event was of a nature likely to spread the reputation of the Spa among
wealthy widows, and medical gentlemen of more skill than practice. So in they came, the Doctor
smirking, gallanting, and performing all the bustling parade of settled and arranged courtship,
with much of that grace wherewith a turkey-cock goes through the same ceremony. Old Touchwood
had also attended her ladyship's summons, chiefly, it may be supposed, from his restless fidgety
disposition, which seldom suffered him to remain absent even from those places of resort of
which he usually professed his detestation. There was, besides, Mr. Winterblossom, who, in
his usual spirit of quiet epicurism and self-indulgence, was, under the fire of a volley of
compliments to Lady Penelope, scheming to secure for himself an early cup of tea. There was
Lady Binks also, with the wonted degree of sullenness in her beautiful face, angry at her husband
as usual, and not disposed to be pleased with Lord Etherington for being absent, when she desired
to excite Sir Bingo's jealousy. This she had discovered to be the most effectual way of tormenting
the Baronet, and she rejoiced in it with the savage glee of a hackney coachman, who has found
a raw, where he can make his poor jade feel the whip. The rest of the company were also in
attendance as usual. MacTurk himself was present, notwithstanding that he thought it an egregious
waste of hot water, to bestow it upon compounding any mixture saving punch. He had of late
associated himself a good deal with the traveller; not that they by any means resembled each
other in temper or opinions, but rather because there was that degree of difference betwixt
them which furnished perpetual subject for dispute and discussion. They were not long, on the
present occasion, ere they lighted on a fertile source of controversy.

"Never tell me of your points of honour," said Touchwood, raising his voice altogether above
the general tone of polite conversation--"all humbug, Captain MacTurk--mere hair-traps to springe
woodcocks--men of sense break through them."

"Upon my word, sir," said the Captain, "and myself is surprised to hear you--for, look you,
sir, every man's honour is the breath of his nostrils--Cot tamn!"

"Then, let men breathe through their mouths, and be d--d," returned the controversialist. "I
tell you, sir, that, besides its being forbidden, both by law and gospel, it's an idiotical
and totally absurd practice, that of duelling. An honest savage has more sense than to practise
it--he takes his bow or his gun, as the thing may be, and shoots his enemy from behind a bush.
And a very good way; for you see there can, in that case, be only one man's death between them."

"Saul of my body, sir," said the Captain, "gin ye promulgate sic doctrines amang the good company,
it's my belief you will bring somebody to the gallows."

"Thank ye, Captain, with all my heart; but I stir up no quarrels--I leave war to them that
live by it. I only say, that, except our old, stupid ancestors in the north-west here, I know
no country so silly as to harbour this custom of duelling. It is unknown in Africa, among the
negroes--in America."

"Don't tell me that," said the Captain; "a Yankee will fight with muskets and buck-shot, rather
than sit still with an affront. I should know Jonathan, I think."

"Altogether unknown among the thousand tribes of India."

"I'll be tamned, then!" said Captain MacTurk. "Was I not in Tippoo's prison at Bangalore? and,
when the joyful day of our liberation came, did we not solemnize it with fourteen little affairs,
whereof we had been laying the foundation in our house of captivity, as holy writ has it, and
never went farther to settle them than the glacis of the fort? By my soul, you would have thought
there was a smart skirmish, the firing was so close; and did not I, Captain MacTurk, fight
three of them myself, without moving my foot from the place I set it on?"

"And pray, sir, what might be the result of this Christian mode of giving thanks for your deliverance?"
demanded Mr. Touchwood.

"A small list of casualties, after all," said the Captain; "one killed on the spot, one died
of his wounds--two wounded severely--three ditto slightly, and little Duncan Macphail reported
missing. We were out of practice, after such long confinement. So you see how we manage matters
in India, my dear friend."

"You are to understand," replied Touchwood, "that I spoke only of the heathen natives, who,
heathen as they are, live in the light of their own moral reason, and among whom ye shall therefore
see better examples of practical morality than among such as yourselves; who, though calling
yourselves Christians, have no more knowledge of the true acceptation and meaning of your religion,
than if you had left your Christianity at the Cape of Good Hope, as they say of you, and forgot
to take it up when you come back again."

"Py Cot! and I can tell you, sir," said the Captain, elevating at once his voice and his nostrils,
and snuffing the air with a truculent and indignant visage, "that I will not permit you or
any man to throw any such scandal on my character.--I thank Cot, I can bring good witness that
I am as good a Christian as another, for a poor sinner, as the best of us are; and I am ready
to justify my religion with my sword--Cot tamn!--Compare my own self with a parcel of black
heathen bodies and natives, that were never in the inner side of a kirk whilst they lived,
but go about worshipping stocks and stones, and swinging themselves upon bamboos, like peasts,
as they are!"

An indignant growling in his throat, which sounded like the acquiescence of his inward man
in the indignant proposition which his external organs thus expressed, concluded this haughty
speech, which, however, made not the least impression on Touchwood, who cared as little for
angry tones and looks as he did for fine speeches. So that it is likely a quarrel between the
Christian preceptor and the peacemaker might have occurred for the amusement of the company,
had not the attention of both, but particularly that of Touchwood, been diverted from the topic
of debate by the entrance of Lord Etherington and Mowbray.

The former was, as usual, all grace, smiles, and gentleness. Yet, contrary to his wonted custom,
which usually was, after a few general compliments, to attach himself particularly to Lady
Binks, the Earl, on the present occasion, avoided the side of the room on which that beautiful
but sullen idol held her station, and attached himself exclusively to Lady Penelope Penfeather,
enduring, without flinching, the strange variety of conceited bavardage, which that lady's
natural parts and acquired information enabled her to pour forth with unparalleled profusion.

An honest heathen, one of Plutarch's heroes, if I mistake not,[II-E] dreamed once upon a night,
that the figure of Proserpina, whom he had long worshipped, visited his slumbers with an angry
and vindictive countenance, and menaced him with vengeance, in resentment of his having neglected
her altars, with the usual fickleness of a polytheist, for those of some more fashionable divinity.
Not that goddess of the infernal regions herself could assume a more haughty or more displeased
countenance than that with which Lady Binks looked from time to time upon Lord Etherington,
as if to warn him of the consequence of this departure from the allegiance which the young
Earl had hitherto manifested towards her, and which seemed now, she knew not why, unless it
were for the purpose of public insult, to be transferred to her rival. Perilous as her eye-glances
were, and much as they menaced, Lord Etherington felt at this moment the importance of soothing
Lady Penelope to silence on the subject of the invalid's confession of that morning, to be
more pressing than that of appeasing the indignation of Lady Binks. The former was a case of
the most urgent necessity--the latter, if he was at all anxious on the subject, might, he perhaps
thought, be trusted to time. Had the ladies continued on a tolerable footing together, he might
have endeavoured to conciliate both. But the bitterness of their long-suppressed feud had greatly
increased, now that it was probable the end of the season was to separate them, in all likelihood
for ever; so that Lady Penelope had no longer any motive for countenancing Lady Binks, or the
lady of Sir Bingo for desiring Lady Penelope's countenance. The wealth and lavish expense of
the one was no longer to render more illustrious the suit of her right honourable friend, nor
was the society of Lady Penelope likely to be soon again useful or necessary to Lady Binks.
So that neither were any longer desirous to suppress symptoms of the mutual contempt and dislike
which they had long nourished for each other; and whoever should, in this decisive hour, take
part with one, had little henceforward to expect from her rival. What farther and more private
reasons Lady Binks might have to resent the defection of Lord Etherington, have never come
with certainty to our knowledge; but it was said there had been high words between them on
the floating report that his lordship's visits to Shaws-Castle were dictated by the wish to
find a bride there.

Women's wits are said to be quick in spying the surest means of avenging a real or supposed
slight. After biting her pretty lips, and revolving in her mind the readiest means of vengeance,
fate threw in her way young Mowbray of St. Ronan's. She looked at him, and endeavoured to fix
his attention with a nod and gracious smile, such as in an ordinary mood would have instantly
drawn him to her side. On receiving in answer only a vacant glance and a bow, she was led to
observe him more attentively, and was induced to believe, from his wavering look, varying complexion,
and unsteady step, that he had been drinking unusually deep. Still his eye was less that of
an intoxicated than of a disturbed and desperate man, one whose faculties were engrossed by
deep and turbid reflection, which withdrew him from the passing scene.

"Do you observe how ill Mr. Mowbray looks?" said she, in a loud whisper; "I hope he has not
heard what Lady Penelope was just now saying of his family?"

"Unless he hears it from you, my lady," answered Mr. Touchwood, who, upon Mowbray's entrance,
had broken off his discourse with MacTurk, "I think there is little chance of his learning
it from any other person."

"What is the matter?" said Mowbray, sharply, addressing Chatterly and Winterblossom; but the
one shrunk nervously from the question, protesting, he indeed had not been precisely attending
to what had been passing among the ladies, and Winterblossom bowed out of the scrape with quiet
and cautious politeness--"he really had not given particular attention to what was passing--I
was negotiating with Mrs. Jones for an additional lump of sugar to my coffee.--Egad, it was
so difficult a piece of diplomacy," he added, sinking his voice, "that I have an idea her ladyship
calculates the West India produce by grains and pennyweights."

The innuendo, if designed to make Mowbray smile, was far from succeeding. He stepped forward,
with more than usual stiffness in his air, which was never entirely free from self-consequence,
and said to Lady Binks, "May I request to know of your ladyship what particular respecting
my family had the honour to engage the attention of the company?"

"I was only a listener, Mr. Mowbray," returned Lady Binks, with evident enjoyment of the rising
indignation which she read in his countenance; "not being queen of the night, I am not at all
disposed to be answerable for the turn of the conversation."

Mowbray, in no humour to bear jesting, yet afraid to expose himself by farther enquiry in a
company so public, darted a fierce look at Lady Penelope, then in close conversation with Lord
Etherington,--advanced a step or two towards them,--then, as if checking himself, turned on
his heel, and left the room. A few minutes afterwards, and when certain satirical nods and
winks were circulating among the assembly, a waiter slid a piece of paper into Mrs. Jones's
hand, who, on looking at the contents, seemed about to leave the room.

"Jones--Jones!" exclaimed Lady Penelope, in surprise and displeasure.

"Only the key of the tea-caddie, your ladyship," answered Jones; "I will be back in an instant."

"Jones--Jones!" again exclaimed her mistress, "here is enough"--of tea, she would have said;
but Lord Etherington was so near her, that she was ashamed to complete the sentence, and had
only hope in Jones's quickness of apprehension, and the prospect that she would be unable to
find the key which she went in search of.

Jones, meanwhile, tripped off to a sort of housekeeper's apartment, of which she was locum
tenens for the evening, for the more ready supply of whatever might be wanted on Lady Penelope's
night, as it was called. Here she found Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's, whom she instantly began
to assail with, "La! now, Mr. Mowbray, you are such another gentleman!--I am sure you will
make me lose my place--I'll swear you will--what can you have to say, that you could not as
well put off for an hour?"

"I want to know, Jones," answered Mowbray, in a different tone, perhaps, from what the damsel
expected, "what your lady was just now saying about my family."

"Pshaw!--was that all?" answered Mrs. Jones. "What should she be saying?--nonsense--Who minds
what she says?--I am sure I never do, for one."

"Nay, but, my dear Jones," said Mowbray, "I insist upon knowing--I must know, and I will know."

"La! Mr. Mowbray, why should I make mischief?--As I live, I hear some one coming! and if you
were found speaking with me here--indeed, indeed, some one is coming!"

"The devil may come, if he will!" said Mowbray, "but we do not part, pretty mistress, till
you tell me what I wish to know."

"Lord, sir, you frighten me!" answered Jones; "but all the room heard it as well as I--it was
about Miss Mowbray--and that my lady would be shy of her company hereafter--for that she was--she
was"----

"For that my sister was what?" said Mowbray, fiercely, seizing her arm.

"Lord, sir, you terrify me!" said Jones, beginning to cry; "at any rate, it was not I that
said it--it was Lady Penelope."

"And what was it the old, adder-tongued madwoman dared to say of Clara Mowbray?--Speak out
plainly, and directly, or, by Heaven, I'll make you!"

"Hold, sir--hold, for God's sake!--you will break my arm," answered the terrified handmaiden.
"I am sure I know no harm of Miss Mowbray; only, my lady spoke as if she was no better than
she ought to be.--Lord, sir, there is some one listening at the door!"--and making a spring
out of his grasp, she hastened back to the room in which the company were assembled.

Mowbray stood petrified at the news he had heard, ignorant alike what could be the motive for
a calumny so atrocious, and uncertain what he were best do to put a stop to the scandal. To
his farther confusion, he was presently convinced of the truth of Mrs. Jones's belief that
they had been watched, for, as he went to the door of the apartment, he was met by Mr. Touchwood.

"What has brought you here, sir?" said Mowbray, sternly.

"Hoitie toitie," answered the traveller, "why, how came you here, if you go to that, squire?--Egad,
Lady Penelope is trembling for her souchong, so I just took a step here to save her ladyship
the trouble of looking after Mrs. Jones in person, which, I think, might have been a worse
interruption than mine, Mr. Mowbray."

"Pshaw, sir, you talk nonsense," said Mowbray; "the tea-room is so infernally hot, that I had
sat down here a moment to draw breath, when the young woman came in."

"And you are going to run away, now the old gentleman is come in?" said Touchwood--"Come, sir,
I am more your friend than you may think."

"Sir, you are intrusive--I want nothing that you can give me," said Mowbray.

"That is a mistake," answered the senior; "for I can supply you with what most young men want--money
and wisdom."

"You will do well to keep both till they are wanted," said Mowbray.

"Why, so I would, squire, only that I have taken something of a fancy for your family; and
they are supposed to have wanted cash and good counsel for two generations, if not for three."

"Sir," said Mowbray, angrily, "you are too old either to play the buffoon, or to get buffoon's
payment."

"Which is like monkey's allowance, I suppose," said the traveller, "more kicks than halfpence.--Well--at
least I am not young enough to quarrel with boys for bullying. I'll convince you, however,
Mr. Mowbray, that I know some more of your affairs than what you give me credit for."

"It may be," answered Mowbray, "but you will oblige me more by minding your own."

"Very like; meantime, your losses to-night to my Lord Etherington are no trifle, and no secret
neither."

"Mr. Touchwood, I desire to know where you had your information?" said Mowbray.

"A matter of very little consequence compared to its truth or falsehood, Mr. Mowbray," answered
the old gentleman.

"But of the last importance to me, sir," said Mowbray. "In a word, had you such information
by or through means of Lord Etherington?--Answer me this single question, and then I shall
know better what to think on the subject."

"Upon my honour," said Touchwood, "I neither had my information from Lord Etherington directly
nor indirectly. I say thus much to give you satisfaction, and I now expect you will hear me
with patience."

"Forgive me, sir," interrupted Mowbray, "one farther question. I understand something was said
in disparagement of my sister just as I entered the tea-room?"

"Hem--hem--hem!" said Touchwood, hesitating. "I am sorry your ears have served you so well--something
there was said lightly, something that can be easily explained, I dare say;--And now, Mr. Mowbray,
let me speak a few serious words with you."

"And now, Mr. Touchwood, we have no more to say to each other--good evening to you."

He brushed past the old man, who in vain endeavoured to stop him, and, hurrying to the stable,
demanded his horse. It was ready saddled, and waited his orders; but even the short time that
was necessary to bring it to the door of the stable was exasperating to Mowbray's impatience.
Not less exasperating was the constant interceding voice of Touchwood, who, in tones alternately
plaintive and snappish, kept on a string of expostulations.

"Mr. Mowbray, only five words with you--Mr. Mowbray, you will repent this--Is this a night
to ride in, Mr. Mowbray?--My stars, sir, if you would but have five minutes' patience!"

Curses, not loud but deep, muttered in the throat of the impatient laird, were the only reply,
until his horse was brought out, when, staying no farther question, he sprung into the saddle.
The poor horse paid for the delay, which could not be laid to his charge. Mowbray struck him
hard with his spurs so soon as he was in his seat--the noble animal reared, bolted, and sprung
forward like a deer, over stock and stone, the nearest road--and we are aware it was a rough
one--to Shaws-Castle. There is a sort of instinct by which horses perceive the humour of their
riders, and are furious and impetuous, or dull and sluggish, as if to correspond with it; and
Mowbray's gallant steed seemed on this occasion to feel all the stings of his master's internal
ferment, although not again urged with the spur. The ostler stood listening to the clash of
the hoofs, succeeding each other in thick and close gallop, until they died away in the distant
woodland.

"If St. Ronan's reach home this night, with his neck unbroken," muttered the fellow, "the devil
must have it in keeping."

"Mercy on us!" said the traveller, "he rides like a Bedouin Arab! but in the desert there are
neither trees to cross the road, nor cleughs, nor linns, nor floods, nor fords. Well, I must
set to work myself, or this gear will get worse than even I can mend.--Here you, ostler, let
me have your best pair of horses instantly to Shaws-Castle."

"To Shaws-Castle, sir?" said the man, with some surprise.

"Yes--do you not know such a place?"

"In troth, sir, sae few company go there, except on the great ball day, that we have had time
to forget the road to it--but St. Ronan's was here even now, sir."

"Ay, what of that?--he has ridden on to get supper ready--so, turn out without loss of time."

"At your pleasure, sir," said the fellow, and called to the postilion accordingly.

CHAPTER XVI.

DEBATE.

    Sedet post equitem atra cura----

    Still though the headlong cavalier,
    O'er rough and smooth, in wild career,
      Seems racing with the wind;
    His sad companion,--ghastly pale,
    And darksome as a widow's veil,
      CARE--keeps her seat behind.

HORACE.

Well was it that night for Mowbray, that he had always piqued himself on his horses, and that
the animal on which he was then mounted was as sure-footed and sagacious as he was mettled
and fiery. For those who observed next day the print of the hoofs on the broken and rugged
track through which the creature had been driven at full speed by his furious master, might
easily see, that in more than a dozen of places the horse and rider had been within a few inches
of destruction. One bough of a gnarled and stunted oak-tree, which stretched across the road,
seemed in particular to have opposed an almost fatal barrier to the horseman's career. In striking
his head against this impediment, the force of the blow had been broken in some measure by
a high-crowned hat, yet the violence of the shock was sufficient to shiver the branch to pieces.
Fortunately, it was already decayed; but, even in that state, it was subject of astonishment
to every one that no fatal damage had been sustained in so formidable an encounter. Mowbray
himself was unconscious of the accident.

Scarcely aware that he had been riding at an unusual rate, scarce sensible that he had ridden
faster perhaps than ever he followed the hounds, Mowbray alighted at his stable door, and flung
the bridle to his groom, who held up his hands in astonishment when he beheld the condition
of the favourite horse; but, concluding that his master must be intoxicated, he prudently forbore
to make any observations.

No sooner did the unfortunate traveller suspend that rapid motion by which he seemed to wish
to annihilate, as far as possible, time and space, in order to reach the place he had now attained,
than it seemed to him as if he would have given the world that seas and deserts had lain between
him and the house of his fathers, as well as that only sister with whom he was now about to
have a decisive interview.

"But the place and the hour are arrived," he said, biting his lip with anguish; "this explanation
must be decisive; and whatever evils may attend it, suspense must be ended now, at once and
for ever."

He entered the Castle, and took the light from the old domestic, who, hearing the clatter of
his horse's feet, had opened the door to receive him.

"Is my sister in her parlour?" he asked, but in so hollow a voice, that the old man only answered
the question by another, "Was his honour well?"

"Quite well, Patrick--never better in my life," said Mowbray; and turning his back on the old
man, as if to prevent his observing whether his countenance and his words corresponded, he
pursued his way to his sister's apartment. The sound of his step upon the passage roused Clara
from a reverie, perhaps a sad one; and she had trimmed her lamp, and stirred her fire, so slow
did he walk, before he at length entered her apartment.

"You are a good boy, brother," she said, "to come thus early home; and I have some good news
for your reward. The groom has fetched back Trimmer--He was lying by the dead hare, and he
had chased him as far as Drumlyford--the shepherd had carried him to the shieling, till some
one should claim him."

"I would he had hanged him, with all my heart!" said Mowbray.

"How!--hang Trimmer?--your favourite Trimmer, that has beat the whole country?--and it was
only this morning you were half-crying because he was amissing, and like to murder man and
mother's son?"

"The better I like any living thing," answered Mowbray, "the more reason I have for wishing
it dead and at rest; for neither I, nor any thing that I love, will ever be happy more."

"You cannot frighten me, John, with these flights," answered Clara, trembling, although she
endeavoured to look unconcerned--"You have used me to them too often."

"It is well for you then; you will be ruined without the shock of surprise."

"So much the better--We have been," said Clara,

    "'So constantly in poortith's sight,
    The thoughts on't gie us little fright.'

So say I with honest Robert Burns."

"D--n Barns and his trash!" said Mowbray, with the impatience of a man determined to be angry
with every thing but himself, who was the real source of the evil.

"And why damn poor Burns?" said Clara, composedly; "it is not his fault if you have not risen
a winner, for that, I suppose, is the cause of all this uproar."

"Would it not make any one lose patience," said Mowbray, "to hear her quoting the rhapsodies
of a hobnail'd peasant, when a man is speaking of the downfall of an ancient house! Your ploughman,
I suppose, becoming one degree poorer than he was born to be, would only go without his dinner,
or without his usual potation of ale. His comrades would cry 'poor fellow!' and let him eat
out of their kit, and drink out of their bicker without scruple, till his own was full again.
But the poor gentleman--the downfallen man of rank--the degraded man of birth--the disabled
and disarmed man of power!--it is he that is to be pitied, who loses not merely drink and dinner,
but honour, situation, credit, character, and name itself!"

"You are declaiming in this manner in order to terrify me," said Clara: "but, friend John,
I know you and your ways, and I have made up my mind upon all contingencies that can take place.
I will tell you more--I have stood on this tottering pinnacle of rank and fashion, if our situation
can be termed such, till my head is dizzy with the instability of my eminence; and I feel that
strange desire of tossing myself down, which the devil is said to put into folk's heads when
they stand on the top of steeples--at least, I had rather the plunge were over."

"Be satisfied, then; if that will satisfy you--the plunge is over, and we are--what they used
to call it in Scotland--gentle beggars--creatures to whom our second, and third, and fourth,
and fifth cousins may, if they please, give a place at the side-table, and a seat in the carriage
with the lady's maid, if driving backwards will not make us sick."

"They may give it to those who will take it," said Clara; "but I am determined to eat bread
of my own buying--I can do twenty things, and I am sure some one or other of them will bring
me all the little money I will need. I have been trying, John, for several months, how little
I can live upon, and you would laugh if you heard how low I have brought the account."

"There is a difference, Clara, between fanciful experiments and real poverty--the one is a
masquerade, which we can end when we please, the other is wretchedness for life."

"Methinks, brother," replied Miss Mowbray, "it would be better for you to set me an example
how to carry my good resolutions into effect, than to ridicule them."

"Why, what would you have me do?" said he, fiercely--"turn postilion, or rough-rider, or whipper-in?--I
don't know any thing else that my education, as I have used it, has fitted me for--and then
some of my old acquaintances would, I dare say, give me a crown to drink now and then for old
acquaintance' sake."

"This is not the way, John, that men of sense think or speak of serious misfortunes," answered
his sister; "and I do not believe that this is so serious as it is your pleasure to make it."

"Believe the very worst you can think," replied he, "and you will not believe bad enough!--You
have neither a guinea, nor a house, nor a friend;--pass but a day, and it is a chance that
you will not have a brother."

"My dear John, you have drunk hard--rode hard."

"Yes--such tidings deserved to be carried express, especially to a young lady who receives
them so well," answered Mowbray, bitterly. "I suppose, now, it will make no impression, if
I were to tell you that you have it in your power to stop all this ruin?"

"By consummating my own, I suppose?--Brother, I said you could not make me tremble, but you
have found a way to do it."

"What, you expect I am again to urge you with Lord Etherington's courtship?--That might have
saved all, indeed--But that day of grace is over."

"I am glad of it, with all my spirit," said Clara; "may it take with it all that we can quarrel
about!--But till this instant I thought it was for this very point that this long voyage was
bound, and that you were endeavouring to persuade me of the reality of the danger of the storm,
in order to reconcile me to the harbour."

"You are mad, I think, in earnest," said Mowbray; "can you really be so absurd as to rejoice
that you have no way left to relieve yourself and me from ruin, want, and shame?"

"From shame, brother?" said Clara. "No shame in honest poverty, I hope."

"That is according as folks have used their prosperity, Clara.--I must speak to the point.--There
are strange reports going below--By Heaven! they are enough to disturb the ashes of the dead!
Were I to mention them, I should expect our poor mother to enter the room--Clara Mowbray, can
you guess what I mean?"

It was with the utmost exertion, yet in a faltering voice, that she was able, after an ineffectual
effort, to utter the monosyllable, "No!"

"By Heaven! I am ashamed--I am even afraid to express my own meaning!--Clara, what is there
which makes you so obstinately reject every proposal of marriage?--Is it that you feel yourself
unworthy to be the wife of an honest man?--Speak out!--Evil Fame has been busy with your reputation--speak
out!--Give me the right to cram their lies down the throats of the inventors, and when I go
among them to-morrow, I shall know how to treat those who cast reflections on you! The fortunes
of our house are ruined, but no tongue shall slander its honour.--Speak--speak, wretched girl!
why are you silent?"

"Stay at home, brother!" said Clara; "stay at home, if you regard our house's honour--murder
cannot mend misery--Stay at home, and let them talk of me as they will,--they can scarcely
say worse of me than I deserve!"[II-F]

The passions of Mowbray, at all times ungovernably strong, were at present inflamed by wine,
by his rapid journey, and the previously disturbed state of his mind. He set his teeth, clenched
his hands, looked on the ground, as one that forms some horrid resolution, and muttered almost
unintelligibly, "It were charity to kill her!"

"Oh! no--no--no!" exclaimed the terrified girl, throwing herself at his feet; "Do not kill
me, brother! I have wished for death--thought of death--prayed for death--but, oh! it is frightful
to think that he is near--Oh! not a bloody death, brother, nor by your hand!"

She held him close by the knees as she spoke, and expressed, in her looks and accents, the
utmost terror. It was not, indeed, without reason; for the extreme solitude of the place, the
violent and inflamed passions of her brother, and the desperate circumstances to which he had
reduced himself, seemed all to concur to render some horrid act of violence not an improbable
termination of this strange interview.

Mowbray folded his arms, without unclenching his hands, or raising his head, while his sister
continued on the floor, clasping him round the knees with all her strength, and begging piteously
for her life and for mercy.

"Fool!" he said, at last, "let me go!--Who cares for thy worthless life?--who cares if thou
live or die? Live, if thou canst--and be the hate and scorn of every one else, as much as thou
art mine!"

He grasped her by the shoulder, with one hand pushed her from him, and, as she arose from the
floor, and again pressed to throw her arms around his neck, he repulsed her with his arm and
hand, with a push--or blow--it might be termed either one or the other,--violent enough, in
her weak state, to have again extended her on the ground, had not a chair received her as she
fell. He looked at her with ferocity, grappled a moment in his pocket; then ran to the window,
and throwing the sash violently up, thrust himself as far as he could without falling, into
the open air. Terrified, and yet her feelings of his unkindness predominating even above her
fears, Clara continued to exclaim.

"Oh, brother, say you did not mean this!--Oh, say you did not mean to strike me!--Oh, whatever
I have deserved, be not you the executioner!--It is not manly--it is not natural--there are
but two of us in the world!"

He returned no answer; and, observing that he continued to stretch himself from the window,
which was in the second story of the building, and overlooked the court, a new cause of apprehension
mingled, in some measure, with her personal fears. Timidly, and with streaming eyes and uplifted
hands, she approached her angry brother, and, fearfully, yet firmly, seized the skirt of his
coat, as if anxious to preserve him from the effects of that despair, which so lately seemed
turned against her, and now against himself.

He felt the pressure of her hold, and drawing himself angrily back, asked her sternly what
she wanted.

"Nothing," she said, quitting her hold of his coat; "but what--what did he look after so anxiously?"

"After the devil!" he answered, fiercely; then drawing in his head, and taking her hand, "By
my soul, Clara--it is true, if ever there was truth in such a tale!--He stood by me just now,
and urged me to murder thee!--What else could have put my hunting-knife into my thought?--Ay,
by God, and into my very hand--at such a moment?--Yonder I could almost fancy I see him fly,
the wood, and the rock, and the water, gleaming back the dark-red furnace-light, that is shed
on them by his dragon wings! By my soul, I can hardly suppose it fancy--I can hardly think
but that I was under the influence of an evil spirit--under an act of fiendish possession!
But gone as he is, gone let him be--and thou, too ready implement of evil, be thou gone after
him!" He drew from his pocket his right hand, which had all this time held his hunting-knife,
and threw the implement into the court-yard as he spoke, then, with a sad quietness, and solemnity
of manner, shut the window, and led his sister by the hand to her usual seat, which her tottering
steps scarce enabled her to reach. "Clara," he said, after a pause of mournful silence, "we
must think what is to be done, without passion or violence--there may be something for us in
the dice yet, if we do not throw away our game. A blot is never a blot till it is hit--dishonour
concealed, is not dishonour in some respects.--Dost thou attend to me, wretched girl?" he said,
suddenly and sternly raising his voice.

"Yes, brother--yes, indeed, brother!" she hastily replied, terrified even by delay again to
awaken his ferocious and ungovernable temper.

"Thus it must be, then," he said. "You must marry this Etherington--there is no help for it,
Clara--You cannot complain of what your own vice and folly have rendered inevitable."

"But, brother!"--said the trembling girl.

"Be silent. I know all that you would say. You love him not, you would say. I love him not,
no more than you. Nay, what is more, he loves you not; if he did, I might scruple to give you
to him, you being such as you have owned yourself. But you shall wed him out of hate, Clara--or
for the interest of your family--or for what reason you will--But wed him you shall and must."

"Brother--dearest brother--one single word!"

"Not of refusal or expostulation--that time is gone by," said her stern censurer. "When I believed
thee what I thought thee this morning, I might advise you, but I could not compel. But, since
the honour of our family has been disgraced by your means, it is but just, that, if possible,
its disgrace should be hidden; and it shall,--ay, if selling you for a slave would tend to
conceal it!"

"You do worse--you do worse by me! A slave in an open market may be bought by a kind master--you
do not give me that chance--you wed me to one who"----

"Fear him not, nor the worst that he can do, Clara," said her brother. "I know on what terms
he marries; and being once more your brother, as your obedience in this matter will make me,
he had better tear his flesh from his bones with his own teeth, than do thee any displeasure!
By Heaven, I hate him so much--for he has outreached me every way--that methinks it is some
consolation that he will not receive in thee the excellent creature I thought thee!--Fallen
as thou art, thou art still too good for him."

Encouraged by the more gentle and almost affectionate tone in which her brother spoke, Clara
could not help saying, although almost in a whisper, "I trust it will not be so--I trust he
will consider his own condition, honour, and happiness, better than to share it with me."

"Let him utter such a scruple if he dares," said Mowbray--"But he dares not hesitate--he knows
that the instant he recedes from addressing you, he signs his own death-warrant or mine, or
perhaps that of both; and his views, too, are of a kind that will not be relinquished on a
point of scrupulous delicacy merely. Therefore, Clara, nourish no such thought in your heart
as that there is the least possibility of your escaping this marriage! The match is booked--Swear
you will not hesitate."

"I will not," she said, almost breathlessly, terrified lest he was about to start once more
into the fit of unbridled fury which had before seized on him.

"Do not even whisper or hint an objection, but submit to your fate, for it is inevitable."

"I will--submit"--answered Clara, in the same trembling accent.

"And I," he said, "will spare you--at least at present--and it may be for ever--all enquiry
into the guilt which you have confessed. Rumours there were of misconduct, which reached my
ears even in England; but who could have believed them that looked on you daily, and witnessed
your late course of life?--On this subject I will be at present silent--perhaps may not again
touch on it--that is, if you do nothing to thwart my pleasure, or to avoid the fate which circumstances
render unavoidable.--And now it is late--retire, Clara, to your bed--think on what I have said
as what necessity has determined, and not my selfish pleasure."

He held out his hand, and she placed, but not without reluctant terror, her trembling palm
in his. In this manner, and with a sort of mournful solemnity, as if they had been in attendance
upon a funeral, he handed his sister through a gallery hung with old family pictures, at the
end of which was Clara's bedchamber. The moon, which at this moment looked out through a huge
volume of mustering clouds that had long been boding storm, fell on the two last descendants
of that ancient family, as they glided hand in hand, more like the ghosts of the deceased than
like living persons, through the hall and amongst the portraits of their forefathers. The same
thoughts were in the breast of both, but neither attempted to say, while they cast a flitting
glance on the pallid and decayed representations, "How little did these anticipate this catastrophe
of their house!" At the door of the bedroom Mowbray quitted his sister's hand, and said, "Clara,
you should to-night thank God, that saved you from a great danger, and me from a deadly sin."

"I will," she answered--"I will." And, as if her terror had been anew excited by this allusion
to what had passed, she bid her brother hastily good-night, and was no sooner within her apartment,
than he heard her turn the key in the lock, and draw two bolts besides.

"I understand you, Clara," muttered Mowbray between his teeth, as he heard one bar drawn after
another. "But if you could earth yourself under Ben Nevis, you could not escape what fate has
destined for you.--Yes!" he said to himself, as he walked with slow and moody pace through
the moonlight gallery, uncertain whether to return to the parlour, or to retire to his solitary
chamber, when his attention was roused by a noise in the court-yard.

The night was not indeed very far advanced, but it had been so long since Shaws-Castle received
a guest, that had Mowbray not heard the rolling of wheels in the court-yard, he might have
thought rather of housebreakers than of visitors. But, as the sound of a carriage and horses
was distinctly heard, it instantly occurred to him, that the guest must be Lord Etherington,
come, even at this late hour, to speak with him on the reports which were current to his sister's
prejudice, and perhaps to declare his addresses to her were at an end. Eager to know the worst,
and to bring matters to a decision, he re-entered the apartment he had just left, where the
lights were still burning, and, calling loudly to Patrick, whom he heard in communing with
the postilion, commanded him to show the visitor to Miss Mowbray's parlour. It was not the
light step of the young nobleman which came tramping, or rather stamping, through the long
passage, and up the two or three steps at the end of it. Neither was it Lord Etherington's
graceful figure which was seen when the door opened, but the stout square substance of Mr.
Peregrine Touchwood.

CHAPTER XVII.

A RELATIVE.

    Claim'd kindred there, and had his claims allow'd.

Deserted Village.

Starting at the unexpected and undesired apparition which presented itself, in the manner described
at the end of the last chapter, Mowbray yet felt, at the same time, a kind of relief, that
his meeting with Lord Etherington, painfully decisive as that meeting must be, was for a time
suspended. So it was with a mixture of peevishness and internal satisfaction, that he demanded
what had procured him the honour of a visit from Mr. Touchwood at this late hour.

"Necessity, that makes the old wife trot," replied Touchwood; "no choice of mine, I assure
you--Gad, Mr. Mowbray, I would rather have crossed Saint Gothard, than run the risk I have
done to-night, rumbling through your breakneck roads in that d----d old wheelbarrow.--On my
word, I believe I must be troublesome to your butler for a draught of something--I am as thirsty
as a coal-heaver that is working by the piece. You have porter, I suppose, or good old Scotch
two-penny?"

With a secret execration on his visitor's effrontery, Mr. Mowbray ordered the servant to put
down wine and water, of which Touchwood mixed a gobletful, and drank it off.

"We are a small family," said his entertainer; "and I am seldom at home--still more seldom
receive guests, when I chance to be here--I am sorry I have no malt liquor, if you prefer it."

"Prefer it?" said Touchwood, compounding, however, another glass of sherry and water, and adding
a large piece of sugar, to correct the hoarseness which, he observed, his night journey might
bring on,--"to be sure I prefer it, and so does every body, except Frenchmen and dandies.--No
offence, Mr. Mowbray, but you should order a hogshead from Meux--the brown-stout, wired down
for exportation to the colonies, keeps for any length of time, and in every climate--I have
drank it where it must have cost a guinea a quart, if interest had been counted."

"When I expect the honour of a visit from you, Mr. Touchwood, I will endeavour to be better
provided," answered Mowbray; "at present your arrival has been without notice, and I would
be glad to know if it has any particular object."

"This is what I call coming to the point," said Mr. Touchwood, thrusting out his stout legs,
accoutred as they were with the ancient defences, called boot-hose, so as to rest his heels
upon the fender. "Upon my life, the fire turns the best flower in the garden at this season
of the year--I'll take the freedom to throw on a log.--Is it not a strange thing, by the by,
that one never sees a fagot in Scotland? You have much small wood, Mr. Mowbray, I wonder you
do not get some fellow from the midland counties, to teach your people how to make a fagot."

"Did you come all the way to Shaws-Castle," asked Mowbray, rather testily, "to instruct me
in the mystery of fagot-making?"

"Not exactly--not exactly," answered the undaunted Touchwood; "but there is a right and a wrong
way in every thing--a word by the way, on any useful subject, can never fall amiss.--As for
my immediate and more pressing business, I can assure you, that it is of a nature sufficiently
urgent, since it brings me to a house in which I am much surprised to find myself."

"The surprise is mutual, sir," said Mowbray, gravely, observing that his guest made a pause;
"it is full time you should explain it."

"Well, then," replied Touchwood; "I must first ask you whether you have never heard of a certain
old gentleman, called Scrogie, who took it into what he called his head, poor man, to be ashamed
of the name he bore, though owned by many honest and respectable men, and chose to join it
to your surname of Mowbray, as having a more chivalrous Norman sounding, and, in a word, a
gentlemanlike twang with it?"

"I have heard of such a person, though only lately," said Mowbray. "Reginald Scrogie Mowbray
was his name. I have reason to consider his alliance with my family as undoubted, though you
seem to mention it with a sneer, sir. I believe Mr. S. Mowbray regulated his family settlements
very much upon the idea that his heir was to intermarry with our house."

"True, true, Mr. Mowbray," answered Touchwood; "and certainly it is not your business to lay
the axe to the root of the genealogical tree, that is like to bear golden apples for you--Ha!"

"Well, well, sir--proceed--proceed," answered Mowbray.

"You may also have heard that this old gentleman had a son, who would willingly have cut up
the said family-tree into fagots; who thought Scrogie sounded as well as Mowbray, and had no
fancy for an imaginary gentility, which was to be attained by the change of one's natural name,
and the disowning, as it were, of one's actual relations."

"I think I have heard from Lord Etherington," answered Mowbray, "to whose communications I
owe most of my knowledge about these Scrogie people, that old Mr. Scrogie Mowbray was unfortunate
in a son, who thwarted his father on every occasion,--would embrace no opportunity which fortunate
chances held out, of raising and distinguishing the family,--had imbibed low tastes, wandering
habits, and singular objects of pursuit,--on account of which his father disinherited him."

"It is very true, Mr. Mowbray," proceeded Touchwood, "that this person did happen to fall under
his father's displeasure, because he scorned forms and flummery,--loved better to make money
as an honest merchant, than to throw it away as an idle gentleman,--never called a coach when
walking on foot would serve the turn,--and liked the Royal Exchange better than St. James's
Park. In short, his father disinherited him, because he had the qualities for doubling the
estate, rather than those for squandering it."

"All this may be quite correct, Mr. Touchwood," replied Mowbray; "but pray, what has this Mr.
Scrogie, junior, to do with you or me?"

"Do with you or me!" said Touchwood, as if surprised at the question; "he has a great deal
to do with me at least, since I am the very man myself."

"The devil you are!" said Mowbray, opening wide his eyes in turn; "Why, Mr. A--a--your name
is Touchwood--P. Touchwood--Paul, I suppose, or Peter--I read it so in the subscription book
at the Well."

"Peregrine, sir, Peregrine--my mother would have me so christened, because Peregrine Pickle
came out during her confinement; and my poor foolish father acquiesced, because he thought
it genteel, and derived from the Willoughbies. I don't like it, and I always write P. short,
and you might have remarked an S. also before the surname--I use at present P. S. Touchwood.
I had an old acquaintance in the city, who loved his jest--He always called me Postscript Touchwood."

"Then, sir," said Mowbray, "if you are really Mr. Scrogie, tout court, I must suppose the name
of Touchwood is assumed?"

"What the devil!" replied Mr. P. S. Touchwood, "do you suppose there is no name in the English
nation will couple up legitimately with my paternal name of Scrogie, except your own, Mr. Mowbray?--I
assure you I got the name of Touchwood, and a pretty spell of money along with it, from an
old godfather, who admired my spirit in sticking by commerce."

"Well, sir, every one has his taste--Many would have thought it better to enjoy a hereditary
estate, by keeping your father's name of Mowbray, than to have gained another by assuming a
stranger's name of Touchwood."

"Who told you Mr. Touchwood was a stranger to me?" said the traveller; "for aught I know, he
had a better title to the duties of a son from me, than the poor old man who made such a fool
of himself, by trying to turn gentleman in his old age. He was my grandfather's partner in
the great firm of Touchwood, Scrogie, and Co.--Let me tell you, there is as good inheritance
in house as in field--a man's partners are his fathers and brothers, and a head clerk may be
likened to a kind of first cousin."

"I meant no offence whatever, Mr. Touchwood Scrogie."

"Scrogie Touchwood, if you please," said the senior; "the scrog branch first, for it must become
rotten ere it become touchwood--ha, ha, ha!--you take me."

"A singular old fellow this," said Mowbray to himself, "and speaks in all the dignity of dollars;
but I will be civil to him, till I can see what he is driving at.--You are facetious, Mr. Touchwood,"
he proceeded aloud. "I was only going to say, that although you set no value upon your connexion
with my family, yet I cannot forget that such a circumstance exists; and therefore I bid you
heartily welcome to Shaws-Castle."

"Thank ye, thank ye, Mr. Mowbray--I knew you would see the thing right. To tell you the truth,
I should not have cared much to come a-begging for your acquaintance and cousinship, and so
forth; but that I thought you would be more tractable in your adversity, than was your father
in his prosperity."

"Did you know my father, sir?" said Mowbray.

"Ay, ay--I came once down here, and was introduced to him--saw your sister and you when you
were children--had thoughts of making my will then, and should have clapped you both in before
I set out to double Cape Horn. But, gad, I wish my poor father had seen the reception I got!
I did not let the old gentleman, Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's that was then, smoke my money-bags--that
might have made him more tractable--not but that we went on indifferent well for a day or two,
till I got a hint that my room was wanted, for that the Duke of Devil-knows-what was expected,
and my bed was to serve his valet-de-chambre.--'Oh, damn all gentle cousins!' said I, and off
I set on the pad round the world again, and thought no more of the Mowbrays till a year or so ago."

"And, pray, what recalled us to your recollection?"

"Why," said Touchwood, "I was settled for some time at Smyrna, (for I turn the penny go where
I will--I have done a little business even since I came here;)--but being at Smyrna as I said,
I became acquainted with Francis Tyrrel."

"The natural brother of Lord Etherington," said Mowbray.

"Ay, so called," answered Touchwood; "but by and by he is more likely to prove the Earl of
Etherington himself, and t'other fine fellow the bastard."

"The devil he is!--You surprise me, Mr. Touchwood."

"I thought I should--I thought I should--Faith, I am sometimes surprised myself at the turn
things take in this world. But the thing is not the less certain--the proofs are lying in the
strong chest of our house at London, deposited there by the old Earl, who repented of his roguery
to Miss Martigny long before he died, but had not courage enough to do his legitimate son justice
till the sexton had housed him."

"Good Heaven, sir!" said Mowbray; "and did you know all this while, that I was about to bestow
the only sister of my house upon an impostor?"

"What was my business with that, Mr. Mowbray?" replied Touchwood; "you would have been very
angry had any one suspected you of not being sharp enough to look out for yourself and your
sister both. Besides, Lord Etherington, bad enough as he may be in other respects, was, till
very lately, no impostor, or an innocent one, for he only occupied the situation in which his
father had placed him. And, indeed, when I understood, upon coming to England, that he was
gone down here, and, as I conjectured, to pay his addresses to your sister, to say truth, I
did not see he could do better. Here was a poor fellow that was about to cease to be a lord
and a wealthy man; was it not very reasonable that he should make the most of his dignity while
he had it? and if, by marrying a pretty girl while in possession of his title, he could get
possession of the good estate of Nettlewood, why, I could see nothing in it but a very pretty
way of breaking his fall."

"Very pretty for him, indeed, and very convenient too," said Mowbray; "but pray, sir, what
was to become of the honour of my family?"

"Why, what was the honour of your family to me?" said Touchwood; "unless it was to recommend
your family to my care, that I was disinherited on account of it. And if this Etherington,
or Bulmer, had been a good fellow, I would have seen all the Mowbrays that ever wore broad
cloth at Jericho, before I had interfered."

"I am really much indebted to your kindness," said Mowbray angrily.

"More than you are aware of," answered Touchwood; "for, though I thought this Bulmer, even
when declared illegitimate, might be a reasonable good match for your sister, considering the
estate which was to accompany the union of their hands; yet, now I have discovered him to be
a scoundrel--every way a scoundrel--I would not wish any decent girl to marry him, were they
to get all Yorkshire, instead of Nettlewood. So I have come to put you right."

The strangeness of the news which Touchwood so bluntly communicated, made Mowbray's head turn
round like that of a man who grows dizzy at finding himself on the verge of a precipice. Touchwood
observed his consternation, which he willingly construed into an acknowledgment of his own
brilliant genius.

"Take a glass of wine, Mr. Mowbray," he said, complacently; "take a glass of old sherry--nothing
like it for clearing the ideas--and do not be afraid of me, though I come thus suddenly upon
you with such surprising tidings--you will find me a plain, simple, ordinary man, that have
my faults and my blunders like other people. I acknowledge that much travel and experience
have made me sometimes play the busybody, because I find I can do things better than other
people, and I love to see folk stare--it's a way I have got. But, after all, I am un bon diable,
as the Frenchman says; and here I have come four or five hundred miles to lie quiet among you
all, and put all your little matters to rights, just when you think they are most desperate."

"I thank you for your good intentions," said Mowbray; "but I must needs say, that they would
have been more effectual had you been less cunning in my behalf, and frankly told me what you
knew of Lord Etherington; as it is, the matter has gone fearfully far. I have promised him
my sister--I have laid myself under personal obligations to him--and there are other reasons
why I fear I must keep my word to this man, earl or no earl."

"What!" exclaimed Touchwood, "would you give up your sister to a worthless rascal, who is capable
of robbing the post-office, and of murdering his brother, because you have lost a trifle of
money to him? Are you to let him go off triumphantly, because he is a gamester as well as a
cheat?--You are a pretty fellow, Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's--you are one of the happy sheep
that go out for wool, and come home shorn. Egad, you think yourself a millstone, and turn out
a sack of grain--You flew abroad a hawk, and have come home a pigeon--You snarled at the Philistines,
and they have drawn your eye-teeth with a vengeance!"

"This is all very witty, Mr. Touchwood," replied Mowbray; "but wit will not pay this man Etherington,
or whatever he is, so many hundreds as I have lost to him."

"Why, then, wealth must do what wit cannot," said old Touchwood; "I must advance for you, that
is all. Look ye, sir, I do not go afoot for nothing--if I have laboured, I have reaped--and,
like the fellow in the old play, 'I have enough, and can maintain my humour'--it is not a few
hundreds, or thousands either, can stand betwixt old P. S. Touchwood and his purpose; and my
present purpose is to make you, Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's, a free man of the forest.--You
still look grave on it, young man?--Why, I trust you are not such an ass as to think your dignity
offended, because the plebeian Scrogie comes to the assistance of the terribly great and old
house of Mowbray?"

"I am indeed not such a fool," answered Mowbray, with his eyes still bent on the ground, "to
reject assistance that comes to me like a rope to a drowning man--but there is a circumstance"----he
stopped short and drank a glass of wine--"a circumstance to which it is most painful to me
to allude--but you seem my friend--and I cannot intimate to you more strongly my belief in
your professions of regard than by saying, that the language held by Lady Penelope Penfeather
on my sister's account, renders it highly proper that she were settled in life; and I cannot
but fear, that the breaking off the affair with this man might be of great prejudice to her
at this moment. They will have Nettlewood, and they may live separate--he has offered to make
settlements to that effect, even on the very day of marriage. Her condition as a married woman
will put her above scandal, and above necessity, from which, I am sorry to say, I cannot hope
long to preserve her."

"For shame!--for shame!--for shame!" said Touchwood, accumulating his words thicker than usual
on each other; "would you sell your own flesh and blood to a man like this Bulmer, whose character
is now laid before you, merely because a disappointed old maid speaks scandal of her? A fine
veneration you pay to the honoured name of Mowbray! If my poor, old, simple father had known
what the owners of these two grand syllables could have stooped to do for merely ensuring subsistence,
he would have thought as little of the noble Mowbrays as of the humble Scrogies. And, I dare
say, the young lady is just such another--eager to get married--no matter to whom."

"Excuse me, Mr. Touchwood," answered Mowbray; "my sister entertains sentiments so very different
from what you ascribe to her, that she and I parted on the most unpleasant terms, in consequence
of my pressing this man's suit upon her. God knows, that I only did so, because I saw no other
outlet from this most unpleasant dilemma. But, since you are willing to interfere, sir, and
aid me to disentangle these complicated matters, which have, I own, been made worse by my own
rashness, I am ready to throw the matter completely into your hands, just as if you were my
father arisen from the dead. Nevertheless, I must needs express my surprise at the extent of
your intelligence in these affairs."

"You speak very sensibly, young man," said the traveller; "and as for my intelligence, I have
for some time known the finesses of this Master Bulmer as perfectly as if I had been at his
elbow when he was playing all his dog's tricks with this family. You would hardly suspect now,"
he continued, in a confidential tone, "that what you were so desirous a while ago should take
place, has in some sense actually happened, and that the marriage ceremony has really passed
betwixt your sister and this pretended Lord Etherington?"

"Have a care, sir!" said Mowbray, fiercely; "do not abuse my candour--this is no place, time,
or subject, for impertinent jesting."

"As I live by bread, I am serious," said Touchwood; "Mr. Cargill performed the ceremony; and
there are two living witnesses who heard them say the words, 'I, Clara, take you, Francis,'
or whatever the Scottish church puts in place of that mystical formula."

"It is impossible," said Mowbray; "Cargill dared not have done such a thing--a clandestine
proceeding, such as you speak of, would have cost him his living. I'll bet my soul against
a horse-shoe, it is all an imposition; and you come to disturb me, sir, amid my family distress,
with legends that have no more truth in them than the Alkoran."

"There are some true things in the Alkoran, (or rather, the Koran, for the Al is merely the
article prefixed,) but let that pass--I will raise your wonder higher before I am done. It
is very true, that your sister was indeed joined in marriage with this same Bulmer, that calls
himself by the title of Etherington; but it is just as true, that the marriage is not worth
a maravedi, for she believed him at the time to be another person--to be, in a word, Francis
Tyrrel, who is actually what the other pretends to be, a nobleman of fortune."

"I cannot understand one word of all this," said Mowbray. "I must to my sister instantly, and
demand of her if there be any real foundation for these wonderful averments."

"Do not go," said Touchwood, detaining him, "you shall have a full explanation from me; and
to comfort you under your perplexity, I can assure you that Cargill's consent to celebrate
the nuptials, was only obtained by an aspersion thrown on your sister's character, which induced
him to believe that speedy marriage would be the sole means of saving her reputation; and I
am convinced in my own mind it is only the revival of this report which has furnished the foundation
of Lady Penelope's chattering."

"If I could think so"--said Mowbray, "if I could but think this is truth--and it seems to explain,
in some degree, my sister's mysterious conduct--if I could but think it true, I should fall
down and worship you as an angel from heaven!"

"A proper sort of angel," said Touchwood, looking modestly down on his short, sturdy supporters--"Did
you ever hear of an angel in boot-hose? Or, do you suppose angels are sent to wait on broken-down
horse-jockeys?"

"Call me what you will, Mr. Touchwood," said the young man, "only make out your story true,
and my sister innocent!"

"Very well spoken, sir," answered the senior, "very well spoken! But then I understand, you
are to be guided by my prudence and experience? None of your G-- damme doings, sir--your duels
or your drubbings. Let me manage the affair for you, and I will bring you through with a flowing
sail."

"Sir, I must feel as a gentleman,"--said Mowbray.

"Feel as a fool," said Touchwood, "for that is the true case. Nothing would please this Bulmer
better than to fight through his rogueries--he knows very well, that he who can slit a pistol-ball
on the edge of a penknife, will always preserve some sort of reputation amidst his scoundrelism--but
I shall take care to stop that hole. Sit down--be a man of sense, and listen to the whole of
this strange story."

Mowbray sat down accordingly; and Touchwood, in his own way, and with many characteristic interjectional
remarks, gave him an account of the early loves of Clara and Tyrrel--of the reasons which induced
Bulmer at first to encourage their correspondence, in hopes that his brother would, by a clandestine
marriage, altogether ruin himself with his father--of the change which took place in his views
when he perceived the importance annexed by the old Earl to the union of Miss Mowbray with
his apparent heir--of the desperate stratagem which he endeavoured to play off, by substituting
himself in the room of his brother--and all the consequences, which it is unnecessary to resume
here, as they are detailed at length by the perpetrator himself, in his correspondence with
Captain Jekyl.

When the whole communication was ended, Mowbray, almost stupified by the wonders he had heard,
remained for some time in a sort of reverie, from which he only started to ask what evidence
could be produced of a story so strange.

"The evidence," answered Touchwood, "of one who was a deep agent in all these matters, from
first to last--as complete a rogue, I believe, as the devil himself, with this difference,
that our mortal fiend does not, I believe, do evil for the sake of evil, but for the sake of
the profit which attends it. How far this plea will avail him in a court of conscience, I cannot
tell; but his disposition was so far akin to humanity, that I have always found my old acquaintance
as ready to do good as harm, providing he had the same agio upon the transaction."

"On my soul," said Mowbray, "you must mean Solmes! whom I have long suspected to be a deep
villain--and now he proves traitor to boot. How the devil could you get into his intimacy,
Mr. Touchwood?"

"The case was particular," said Touchwood. "Mr. Solmes, too active a member of the community
to be satisfied with managing the affairs which his master intrusted to him, adventured in
a little business on his own account; and thinking, I suppose, that the late Earl of Etherington
had forgotten fully to acknowledge his services, as valet to his son, he supplied that defect
by a small check on our house for L.100, in name, and bearing the apparent signature, of the
deceased. This small mistake being detected, Mr. Solmes, porteur of the little billet, would
have been consigned to the custody of a Bow-street officer, but that I found means to relieve
him, on condition of his making known to me the points of private history which I have just
been communicating to you. What I had known of Tyrrel at Smyrna, had given me much interest
in him, and you may guess it was not lessened by the distresses which he had sustained through
his brother's treachery. By this fellow's means, I have counterplotted all his master's fine
schemes. For example, as soon as I learned Bulmer was coming down here, I contrived to give
Tyrrel an anonymous hint, well knowing he would set off like the devil to thwart him, and so
I should have the whole dramatis personæ together, and play them all off against each other,
after my own pleasure."

"In that case," said Mr. Mowbray, "your expedient brought about the rencontre between the two
brothers, when both might have fallen."

"Can't deny it--can't deny it," answered Scrogie, a little discountenanced--"a mere accident--no
one can guard every point.--Egad, but I had like to have been baffled again, for Bulmer sent
the lad Jekyl, who is not such a black sheep neither but what there are some white hairs about
him, upon a treaty with Tyrrel, that my secret agent was not admitted to. Gad, but I discovered
the whole--you will scarce guess how."

"Probably not easily, indeed, sir," answered Mowbray; "for your sources of intelligence are
not the most obvious, any more than your mode of acting the most simple or most comprehensible."

"I would not have it so," said Touchwood; "simple men perish in their simplicity--I carry my
eye-teeth about me.--And for my source of information--why, I played the eavesdropper, sir--listened--knew
my landlady's cupboard with the double door--got into it as she has done many a time.--Such
a fine gentleman as you would rather cut a man's throat, I suppose, than listen at a cupboard
door, though the object were to prevent murder?"

"I cannot say I should have thought of the expedient, certainly, sir," said Mowbray.

"I did, though," said Scrogie, "and learned enough of what was going on, to give Jekyl a hint
that sickened him of his commission, I believe--so the game is all in my own hands. Bulmer
has no one to trust to but Solmes, and Solmes tells me every thing."

Here Mowbray could not suppress a movement of impatience.

"I wish to God, sir, that since you were so kind as to interest yourself in affairs so intimately
concerning my family, you had been pleased to act with a little more openness towards me. Here
have I been for weeks the intimate of a damned scoundrel, whose throat I ought to have cut
for his scandalous conduct to my sister. Here have I been rendering her and myself miserable,
and getting myself cheated every night by a swindler, whom you, if it had been your pleasure,
could have unmasked by a single word. I do all justice to your intentions, sir; but, upon my
soul, I cannot help wishing you had conducted yourself with more frankness and less mystery;
and I am truly afraid your love of dexterity has been too much for your ingenuity, and that
you have suffered matters to run into such a skein of confusion, as you yourself will find
difficulty in unravelling."

Touchwood smiled, and shook his head in all the conscious pride of superior understanding.
"Young man," he said, "when you have seen a little of the world, and especially beyond the
bounds of this narrow island, you will find much more art and dexterity necessary in conducting
these businesses to an issue, than occurs to a blind John Bull, or a raw Scotchman. You will
be then no stranger to the policy of life, which deals in mining and countermining,--now in
making feints, now in thrusting with forthright passes. I look upon you, Mr. Mowbray, as a
young man spoiled by staying at home, and keeping bad company; and will make it my business,
if you submit yourself to my guidance, to inform your understanding, so as to retrieve your
estate.--Don't--Don't answer me, sir! because I know too well, by experience, how young men
answer on these subjects--they are conceited, sir, as conceited as if they had been in all
the four quarters of the world. I hate to be answered, sir, I hate it. And, to tell you the
truth, it is because Tyrrel has a fancy of answering me, that I rather make you my confidant
on this occasion, than him. I would have had him throw himself into my arms, and under my directions;
but he hesitated--he hesitated, Mr. Mowbray--and I despise hesitation. If he thinks he has
wit enough to manage his own matters, let him try it--let him try it. Not but I will do all
I can for him, in fitting time and place; but I will let him dwell in his perplexities and
uncertainties for a little while longer. And so, Mr. Mowbray, you see what sort of an odd fellow
I am, and you can satisfy me at once whether you mean to come into my measures--only speak
out at once, sir, for I abhor hesitation."

While Touchwood thus spoke, Mowbray was forming his resolution internally. He was not so inexperienced
as the senior supposed; at least, he could plainly see that he had to do with an obstinate,
capricious old man, who, with the best intentions in the world, chose to have every thing in
his own way; and, like most petty politicians, was disposed to throw intrigue and mystery over
matters which had much better be prosecuted boldly and openly. But he perceived at the same
time, that Touchwood, as a sort of relation, wealthy, childless, and disposed to become his
friend, was a person to be conciliated, the rather that the traveller himself had frankly owned
that it was Francis Tyrrel's want of deference towards him, which had forfeited, or at least
abated, his favour. Mowbray recollected, also, that the circumstances under which he himself
stood, did not permit him to trifle with returning gleams of good fortune. Subduing, therefore,
the haughtiness of temper proper to him as an only son and heir, he answered respectfully,
that, in his condition, the advice and assistance of Mr. Scrogie Touchwood were too important,
not to be purchased at the price of submitting his own judgment to that of an experienced and
sagacious friend.

"Well said, Mr. Mowbray," replied the senior, "well said. Let me once have the management of
your affairs, and we will brush them up for you without loss of time.--I must be obliged to
you for a bed for the night, however--it is as dark as a wolf's mouth; and if you will give
orders to keep the poor devil of a postilion, and his horses too, why, I will be the more obliged
to you."

Mowbray applied himself to the bell. Patrick answered the call, and was much surprised, when
the old gentleman, taking the word out of his entertainer's mouth, desired a bed to be got
ready, with a little fire in the grate; "for I take it, friend," he went on, "you have not
guests here very often.--And see that my sheets be not damp, and bid the housemaid take care
not to make the bed upon an exact level, but let it slope from the pillow to the footposts,
at a declivity of about eighteen inches.--And hark ye--get me a jug of barley-water, to place
by my bedside, with the squeeze of a lemon--or stay, you will make it as sour as Beelzebub--bring
the lemon on a saucer, and I will mix it myself."

Patrick listened like one of sense forlorn, his head turning like a mandarin, alternately from
the speaker to his master, as if to ask the latter whether this was all reality. The instant
that Touchwood stopped, Mowbray added his fiat.

"Let every thing be done to make Mr. Touchwood comfortable, in the way he wishes."

"Aweel, sir," said Patrick, "I shall tell Mally, to be sure, and we maun do our best, and--but
it's unco late"----

"And, therefore," said Touchwood, "the sooner we get to bed the better, my old friend. I, for
one, must be stirring early--I have business of life and death--it concerns you too, Mr. Mowbray--but
no more of that till to-morrow.--And let the lad put up his horses, and get him a bed somewhere."

Patrick here thought he had gotten upon firm ground for resistance, for which, displeased with
the dictatorial manner of the stranger, he felt considerably inclined.

"Ye may catch us at that, if ye can," said Patrick; "there's nae post cattle come into our
stables--What do we ken, but that they may be glandered, as the groom says?"

"We must take the risk to-night, Patrick," said Mowbray, reluctantly enough--"unless Mr. Touchwood
will permit the horses to come back early next morning?"

"Not I, indeed," said Touchwood; "safe bind safe find--it may be once away and aye away, and
we shall have enough to do to-morrow morning. Moreover, the poor carrion are tired, and the
merciful man is merciful to his beast--and, in a word, if the horses go back to St. Ronan's
Well to-night, I go there for company."

It often happens, owing, I suppose, to the perversity of human nature, that subserviency in
trifles is more difficult to a proud mind, than compliance in matters of more importance. Mowbray,
like other young gentlemen of his class, was finically rigid in his stable discipline, and
even Lord Etherington's horses had not been admitted into that sanctum sanctorum, into which
he now saw himself obliged to induct two wretched post-hacks. But he submitted with the best
grace he could; and Patrick, while he left their presence, with lifted-up hands and eyes to
execute the orders he had received, could scarcely help thinking that the old man must be the
devil in disguise, since he could thus suddenly control his fiery master, even in the points
which he had hitherto seemed to consider as of most vital importance.

"The Lord in his mercy haud a grip of this puir family! for I, that was born in it, am like
to see the end of it." Thus ejaculated Patrick.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE WANDERER.

    'Tis a naughty night to swim in.

King Lear.

There was a wild uncertainty about Mowbray's ideas, after he started from a feverish sleep
on the morning succeeding this memorable interview, that his sister, whom he really loved as
much as he was capable of loving any thing, had dishonoured him and her name; and the horrid
recollection of their last interview was the first idea which his waking imagination was thrilled
with. Then came Touchwood's tale of exculpation--and he persuaded himself, or strove to do
so, that Clara must have understood the charge he had brought against her as referring to her
attachment to Tyrrel, and its fatal consequences. Again, still he doubted how that could be--still
feared that there must be more behind than her reluctance to confess the fraud which had been
practised on her by Bulmer; and then, again, he strengthened himself in the first and more
pleasing opinion, by recollecting that, averse as she was to espouse the person he proposed
to her, it must have appeared to her the completion of ruin, if he, Mowbray, should obtain
knowledge of the clandestine marriage.

"Yes--O yes," he said to himself, "she would think that this story would render me more eager
in the rascal's interest, as the best way of hushing up such a discreditable affair--faith,
and she would have judged right too; for, had he actually been Lord Etherington, I do not see
what else she could have done. But, not being Lord Etherington, and an anointed scoundrel into
the bargain, I will content myself with cudgelling him to death so soon as I can get out of
the guardianship of this old, meddling, obstinate, self-willed, busybody.--Then, what is to
be done for Clara?--This mock marriage was a mere bubble, and both parties must draw stakes.
She likes this grave Don, who proves to be the stick of the right tree, after all--so do not
I, though there be something lordlike about him. I was sure a strolling painter could not have
carried it off so. She may marry him, I suppose, if the law is not against it--then she has
the earldom, and the Oaklands, and Nettlewood, all at once.--Gad, we should come in winners,
after all--and, I dare say, this old boy Touchwood is as rich as a Jew--worth a hundred thousand
at least--He is too peremptory to be cut up for sixpence under a hundred thousand.--And he
talks of putting me to rights--I must not wince--must stand still to be curried a little--Only,
I wish the law may permit Clara's being married to this other earl.--A woman cannot marry two
brothers, that is certain:--but then, if she is not married to the one of them in good and
lawful form, there can be no bar to her marrying the other, I should think--I hope the lawyers
will talk no nonsense about it--I hope Clara will have no foolish scruples.--But, by my word,
the first thing I have to hope is, that the thing is true, for it comes through but a suspicious
channel. I'll away to Clara instantly--get the truth out of her--and consider what is to be done."

Thus partly thought and partly spoke the young Laird of St. Ronan's, hastily dressing himself,
in order to enquire into the strange chaos of events which perplexed his imagination.

When he came down to the parlour where they had supped last night, and where breakfast was
prepared this morning, he sent for a girl who acted as his sister's immediate attendant, and
asked, "if Miss Mowbray was yet stirring?"

The girl answered, "she had not rung her bell."

"It is past her usual hour," said Mowbray, "but she was disturbed last night. Go, Martha, tell
her to get up instantly--say I have excellent good news for her--or, if her head aches, I will
come and tell them to her before she rises--go like lightning."

Martha went, and returned in a minute or two. "I cannot make my mistress hear, sir, knock as
loud as I will. I wish," she added, with that love of evil presage which is common in the lower
ranks, "that Miss Clara may be well, for I never knew her sleep so sound."

Mowbray jumped from the chair into which he had thrown himself, ran through the gallery, and
knocked smartly at his sister's door; there was no answer. "Clara, dear Clara!--Answer me but
one word--say but you are well. I frightened you last night--I had been drinking wine--I was
violent--forgive me!--Come, do not be sulky--speak but a single word--say but you are well."

He made the pauses longer betwixt every branch of his address, knocked sharper and louder,
listened more anxiously for an answer; at length he attempted to open the door, but found it
locked, or otherwise secured. "Does Miss Mowbray always lock her door?" he asked the girl.

"Never knew her to do it before, sir; she leaves it open that I may call her, and open the
window-shutters."

She had too good reason for precaution last night, thought her brother, and then remembered
having heard her bar the door.

"Come, Clara," he continued, greatly agitated, "do not be silly; if you will not open the door,
I must force it, that's all; for how can I tell but that you are sick, and unable to answer?--if
you are only sullen, say so.--She returns no answer," he said, turning to the domestic, who
was now joined by Touchwood.

Mowbray's anxiety was so great, that it prevented his taking any notice of his guest, and he
proceeded to say, without regarding his presence, "What is to be done?--she may be sick--she
may be asleep--she may have swooned; if I force the door, it may terrify her to death in the
present weak state of her nerves.--Clara, dear Clara! do but speak a single word, and you shall
remain in your own room as long as you please."

There was no answer. Miss Mowbray's maid, hitherto too much fluttered and alarmed to have much
presence of mind, now recollected a back-stair which communicated with her mistress's room
from the garden, and suggested she might have gone out that way.

"Gone out," said Mowbray, in great anxiety, and looking at the heavy fog, or rather small rain,
which blotted the November morning,--"Gone out, and in weather like this!--But we may get into
her room from the back-stair."

So saying, and leaving his guest to follow or remain as he thought proper, he flew rather than
walked to the garden, and found the private door which led into it, from the bottom of the
back-stair above mentioned, was wide open. Full of vague, but fearful apprehensions, he rushed
up to the door of his sister's apartment, which opened from her dressing-room to the landing-place
of the stair; it was ajar, and that which communicated betwixt the bedroom and dressing-room
was half open. "Clara, Clara!" exclaimed Mowbray, invoking her name rather in an agony of apprehension,
than as any longer hoping for a reply. And his apprehension was but too prophetic.

Miss Mowbray was not in that apartment; and, from the order in which it was found, it was plain
she had neither undressed on the preceding night, nor occupied the bed. Mowbray struck his
forehead in an agony of remorse and fear. "I have terrified her to death," he said; "she has
fled into the woods, and perished there!"

Under the influence of this apprehension, Mowbray, after another hasty glance around the apartment,
as if to assure himself that Clara was not there, rushed again into the dressing-room, almost
overturning the traveller, who, in civility, had not ventured to enter the inner apartment.
"You are as mad as a Hamako,"[II-11] said the traveller; "let us consult together, and I am
sure I can contrive"----

"Oh, d--n your contrivance!" said Mowbray, forgetting all proposed respect in his natural impatience,
aggravated by his alarm; "if you had behaved straight-forward, and like a man of common sense,
this would not have happened!"

"God forgive you, young man, if your reflections are unjust," said the traveller, quitting
the hold he had laid upon Mowbray's coat; "and God forgive me too, if I have done wrong while
endeavouring to do for the best!--But may not Miss Mowbray have gone down to the Well? I will
order my horses, and set off instantly."

"Do, do," said Mowbray, recklessly; "I thank you, I thank you;" and hastily traversing the
garden, as if desirous to get rid at once of his visitor and his own thoughts, he took the
shortest road to a little postern-gate, which led into the extensive copsewood, through some
part of which Clara had caused a walk to be cut to a little summer-house built of rough shingles,
covered with creeping shrubs.

As Mowbray hastened through the garden, he met the old man by whom it was kept, a native of
the south country, and an old dependent on the family. "Have you seen my sister?" said Mowbray,
hurrying his words on each other with the eagerness of terror.

"What's your wull, St. Ronan's?" answered the old man, at once dull of hearing, and slow of
apprehension.

"Have you seen Miss Clara?" shouted Mowbray, and muttered an oath or two at the gardener's
stupidity.

"In troth have I," replied the gardener, deliberately; "what suld ail me to see Miss Clara,
St. Ronan's?"

"When, and where?" eagerly demanded the querist.

"Ou, just yestreen, after tey-time--afore ye cam hame yoursell galloping sae fast," said old
Joseph.

"I am as stupid as he, to put off my time in speaking to such an old cabbage-stock!" said Mowbray,
and hastened on to the postern-gate already mentioned, leading from the garden into what was
usually called Miss Clara's walk. Two or three domestics, whispering to each other, and with
countenances that showed grief, fear, and suspicion, followed their master, desirous to be
employed, yet afraid to force their services on the fiery young man.

At the little postern he found some trace of her he sought. The pass-key of Clara was left
in the lock. It was then plain that she must have passed that way; but at what hour, or for
what purpose, Mowbray dared not conjecture. The path, after running a quarter of a mile or
more through an open grove of oaks and sycamores, attained the verge of the large brook, and
became there steep and rocky, difficult to the infirm, and alarming to the nervous; often approaching
the brink of a precipitous ledge of rock, which in this place overhung the stream, in some
places brawling and foaming in hasty current, and in others seeming to slumber in deep and
circular eddies. The temptations which this dangerous scene must have offered an excited and
desperate spirit, came on Mowbray like the blight of the Simoom, and he stood a moment to gather
breath and overcome these horrible anticipations, ere he was able to proceed. His attendants
felt the same apprehension. "Puir thing--puir thing!--O, God send she may not have been left
to hersell!--God send she may have been upholden!" were whispered by Patrick to the maidens,
and by them to each other.

At this moment the old gardener was heard behind them, shouting, "Master--St. Ronan's--Master--I
have fund--I have fund"----

"Have you found my sister?" exclaimed the brother, with breathless anxiety.

The old man did not answer till he came up, and then, with his usual slowness of delivery,
he replied to his master's repeated enquiries, "Na, I haena fund Miss Clara, but I hae fund
something ye wad be wae to lose--your braw hunting-knife."

He put the implement into the hand of its owner, who, recollecting the circumstances under
which he had flung it from him last night, and the now too probable consequences of that interview,
bestowed on it a deep imprecation, and again hurled it from him into the brook. The domestics
looked at each other, and recollecting each at the same time that the knife was a favourite
tool of their master, who was rather curious in such articles, had little doubt that his mind
was affected, in a temporary way at least, by his anxiety on his sister's account. He saw their
confused and inquisitive looks, and assuming as much composure and presence of mind as he could
command, directed Martha, and her female companions, to return and search the walks on the
other side of Shaws-Castle; and, finally, ordered Patrick back to ring the bell, "which," he
said, assuming a confidence that he was far from entertaining, "might call Miss Mowbray home
from some of her long walks." He farther desired his groom and horses might meet him at the
Clattering Brig, so called from a noisy cascade which was formed by the brook, above which
was stretched a small foot-bridge of planks. Having thus shaken off his attendants, he proceeded
himself, with all the speed he was capable of exerting, to follow out the path in which he
was at present engaged, which, being a favourite walk with his sister, she might perhaps have
adopted from mere habit, when in a state of mind, which, he had too much reason to fear, must
have put choice out of the question.

He soon reached the summer-house, which was merely a seat covered overhead and on the sides,
open in front, and neatly paved with pebbles. This little bower was perched, like a hawk's
nest, almost upon the edge of a projecting crag, the highest point of the line of rock which
we have noticed; and had been selected by poor Clara, on account of the prospect which it commanded
down the valley. One of her gloves lay on the small rustic table in the summer-house. Mowbray
caught it eagerly up. It was drenched with wet--the preceding day had been dry; so that, had
she forgot it there in the morning, or in the course of the day, it could not have been in
that state. She had certainly been there during the night, when it rained heavily.

Mowbray, thus assured that Clara had been in this place, while her passions and fears were
so much afloat as they must have been at her flight from her father's house, cast a hurried
and terrified glance from the brow of the precipice into the deep stream that eddied below.
It seemed to him that, in the sullen roar of the water, he heard the last groans of his sister--the
foam-flakes caught his eye, as if they were a part of her garments. But a closer examination
showed that there was no appearance of such a catastrophe. Descending the path on the other
side of the bower, he observed a foot-print in a place where the clay was moist and tenacious,
which, from the small size, and the shape of the shoe, it appeared to him must be a trace of
her whom he sought. He hurried forward, therefore, with as much speed, as yet permitted him
to look out keenly for similar impressions, of which it seemed to him he remarked several,
although less perfect than the former, being much obliterated by the quantity of rain that
had since fallen,--a circumstance seeming to prove that several hours had elapsed since the
person had passed.

