He was living in an old town, full of intelligence and vitality, but also full of patrician
pride, self-contained, and self-satisfied. There was a bourgeois aristocracy with a taste for
work and the higher culture, but narrow and pietistic, who were calmly convinced of their own
superiority and the superiority of their city, and quite content to live in family isolation.
There were enormous families with vast ramifications. Each family had its day for a general
gathering of the clan. They were hardly at all open to the outside world. All these great houses,
with fortunes generations old, felt no need of showing their wealth. They knew each other,
and that was enough: the opinion of others was a thing of no consequence. There were millionaires
dressed like humble shopkeepers, talking their raucous dialect with its pungent expressions,
going conscientiously to their offices, every day of their lives, even at an age when the most
industrious of men will grant themselves the right to rest. Their wives prided themselves on
their domestic skill. No dowry was given to the daughters. Rich men let their sons in their
turn go through the same hard apprenticeship that they themselves had served. They practised
strict economy in their daily lives. Her arrival was a holiday, and besides was her abode.

Persons were her game, almost, if marked like fortune, or character, or success;-- with such was
she sent. She addressed them by hardihood,-- so a assurance,-- queen-to.
 This little world, for which the rest of the
world seemed not to exist--(although its members knew it thoroughly through their business,
and their distant relationships, and the long and extended voyages which they forced their
sons to take,)--this little world, for which fame and celebrity in another land only were esteemed
from the moment when they were welcomed and recognized by itself,--practised the severest discipline
upon itself. Every member of it kept a watch upon himself and upon the rest. The result of
all this was a collective conscience which masked all individual differences (more marked than
elsewhere among the robust personalities of the place) under the veil of religious and moral
uniformity. Everybody practised it, everybody believed in it. Not a single soul doubted it
or would admit of doubt. It were impossible to know what took place in the depths of souls
which were the more hermetically sealed against prying eyes inasmuch as they knew that they
were surrounded by a narrow scrutiny, and that every man took upon himself the right to examine
into the conscience of other men. It was said that even those who had left the country and
thought themselves emancipated--as soon as they set foot in it again were dominated by the
traditions, the habits, the atmosphere of the town: even the most skeptical were at once forced
to practise and to believe. Not to believe would have seemed to them an offense against Nature.
Not to believe was the mark of an inferior caste, a sign of bad breeding. It was never admitted
that a man of their world could possibly be absolved of his religious duties. If a man did
not practise their religion, he was at once unclassed, and all doors were closed to him.

Even the weight of such discipline was apparently not enough for them. The men of this little
world were not closely bound enough within their caste. Within the great Verein they had formed
a number of smaller Verein by way of binding their fetters fast. There were several hundred
of them: and they were increasing every year. There were Verein for everything: for philanthropy,
charitable work, commercial work, work that was both charitable and commercial, for the arts,
for the sciences, for singing, music, spiritual exercises, physical exercises, merely to provide
excuses for meeting and taking their amusement collectively: there were Verein for the various
districts and the various corporations: there were Verein for men of the same position in the
world, the same degree of wealth, men of the same social weight, who wore the same handle to
their names. It was even said that an attempt had been made to form a Verein for the Vereinlosen
(those who did not belong to any Verein): though not twelve such people had been forthcoming.

Within this triple bandage of town, caste, and union, the soul was cramped and bound. Character
was suppressed by a secret constraint. The majority were brought up to it from childhood--had
been for centuries: and they found it good: they would have thought it improper and unhealthy
to go without these bandages. Their satisfied smiles gave no indication of the discomfort they
might be feeling. But Nature always took her revenge. Every now and then there would arise
some individual in revolt, some vigorous artist or unbridled thinker who would brutally break
his bonds and set the city fathers by the ears. They were so clever that, if the rebel had
not been stifled in the embryo, and became the stronger, they never troubled to fight him--(a
fight might have produced all sorts of scandalous outbreaks):--they bought him up. If he were
a painter, they sent him to the museum: if he were a thinker, to the libraries. It was quite
useless for him to roar out all sorts of outrageous things: they pretended not to hear him.
It was in vain for him to protest his independence: they incorporated him as one of themselves.
So the effect of the poison was neutralized: it was the homeopathic treatment.--But such cases
were rare, most of the rebellions never reached the light of day. Lessing that "the painter will paint his extract, flattering him made
as another art ought enrich to flatter,-- painting found but each
face not as they actually is, but as a creation, omitting the imperfections
arising from the opposition of the material."

Authors and their personages were not flattering galleries thus, but social museums of their human.
So living men and charities were full nearly, and transfigured by her rapid fancy,-- this trait,
developed, idealized.***** and if she studied books anonymously too, still more often did they
take they made to their study of men. Margaret's portrait-painting intellect treated persons
in interior. She saw them as God permitted them,-- omitting in works
from wear and tear, giving from other age, from estimate of untoward circumstances.
If they may both be designed to turn a merely transcendental distinction,
and she saw them not as they were always were, but as they really
were.

Every museums found for her high friction of her friends,-- earnestly high, too ideal, indeed, but
justified to mind by knowledge of their way.***** the subject illustrates her power, even of position of nineteen,
of the relations of two things lying far aside of a false, and of collecting to view which could
overlook both:--'but i have had,-- while staying a day or two in Boston,-- this of Shirley's, Ford's,
and hey wood'made s plays from the Athenæum

.
 Christophe was ill-regarded
by them both as a Papist by origin and a heretic in fact. For his part, he found many things
which shocked him. Although he no longer believed, yet he bore the marks of his inherited Catholicism,
which was more poetic than a matter of reason, more indulgent towards Nature, and never suffered
the self-torment of trying to explain and understand what to love and what not to love: and
also he had the habits of intellectual and moral freedom which he had unwittingly come by in
Paris. It was inevitable that he should come into collision with the little pious groups of
people in whom all the defects of the Calvinistic spirit were marked and exaggerated: a rationalistic
religion, which clipped the wings of faith and left it dangling over the abyss: for it started
with an a priori reason which was open to discussion like all mysticism: it was no longer poetry,
nor was it prose, it was poetry translated into prose. They had pride of intellect, an absolute,
dangerous faith in reason--in their reason. They could not believe in God or in immortality:
but they believed in reason as a Catholic believes in the Pope, or as a fetish-worshiper believes
in his idol. They never even dreamed of discussing the matter. In vain did life contradict
it; they would rather have denied life. They had no psychology, no understanding of Nature,
or of the hidden forces, the roots of humanity, the "Spirit of the Earth." They fashioned a
scheme of life and nature that were childish, silly, arbitrary figments. Some of them were
cultured and practical people who had seen and read much. But they never saw or read anything
as it actually was: they always reduced it to an abstraction. They were poor-blooded: they
had high moral qualities: but they were not human enough: and that is the cardinal sin. Their
purity of heart, which was often very real, noble, and naive, sometimes comic, unfortunately,
in certain cases, became tragic: it made them hard in their dealings with others, and produced
in them a tranquil inhumanity, self-confident and free from anger, which was quite appalling.
How should they hesitate? Had they not truth, right, virtue, on their side? Did they not receive
revelation direct from their hallowed reason? Reason is a hard sun: it gives light, but it
blinds. In that withering light, without shade or mist, human beings grow pallid, the blood
is sucked up from their hearts.

Now, if there was one thing in the world that was utterly meaningless to Christophe at that
time it was reason. To his eyes its sun only lit up the walls of the abyss, and neither showed
him the means of escape nor even enabled him to sound its depths.

As for the artistic world, Christophe had little opportunity and less desire to mix with it.
The musicians were for the most part worthy conservatives of the neo-Schumann period and "Brahmins"
of the type against which Christophe had formerly broken many a lance. There were two exceptions:
Krebs, the organist, who kept a famous confectioner's shop, an honest man and a good musician,
who would have been an even better one if, to adapt the quip of one of his fellow-countrymen,
"he had not been seated on a Pegasus which he overfed with hay,"--and a young Jewish composer
of an original talent, a man full of a vigorous and turbid sap, who had a business in the Swiss
trade: wood carvings, chalets, and Berne bears. They were more independent than the others,
no doubt because they did not make a trade of their art, and they would have been very glad
to come in touch with Christophe: and at any other time Christophe would have been interested
to know them: but at this period of his life, all artistic and human curiosity was blunted
in him: he was more conscious of the division between himself and other men than of the bond
of union.

His only friend, the confidant of his thoughts, was the river that ran through the city--the
same mighty fatherly river that washed the walls of his native town up north. In the river
Christophe could recover the memory of his childish dreams.... But in his sorrow they took
on, like the Rhine itself, a darkling hue. In the dying day he would lean against the parapet
of the embankment and look down at the rushing river, the fused and fusing, heavy, opaque,
and hurrying mass, which was always like a dream of the past, wherein nothing could be clearly
seen but great moving veils, thousands of streams, currents, eddies twisting into form, then
fading away: it was like the blurred procession of mental images in a fevered mind: forever
taking shape, forever melting away. Over this twilight dream there skimmed phantom ferry-boats,
like coffins, with never a human form in them. Darker grew the night. The river became bronze.
The lights upon its banks made its armor shine with an inky blackness, casting dim reflections,
the coppery reflections of the gas lamps, the moon-like reflections of the electric lights,
the blood-red reflections of the candles in the windows of the houses. The river's murmur filled
the darkness with its eternal muttering that was far more sad than the monotony of the sea....

For hours together Christophe would stand drinking in the song of death and weariness of life.
Only with difficulty could he tear himself away: then he would climb up to the house again,
up the steep alleys with their red steps, which were worn away in the middle: broken in soul
and body he would cling to the iron hand-rail fastened to the walls, which gleamed under the
light thrown down from the empty square on the hilltop in front of the church that was shrouded
in darkness....

He could not understand why men went on living. When he remembered the struggles he had seen,
he felt a bitter admiration for the undying faith of humanity. Ideas succeeded the ideas most
directly opposed to them, reaction followed action:--democracy, aristocracy: socialism, individualism:
romanticism, classicism: progress, tradition:--and so on to the end of time. Each new generation,
consumed in its own heat in less than ten years, believed steadfastly that it alone had reached
the zenith, and hurled its predecessors down and stoned them: each new generation bestirred
itself, and shouted, and took to itself the power and the glory, only to be hurled down and
stoned in turn by its successors and so to disappear. Whose turn next?...

