The Committee of Directors appointed to watch the measure in Parliament were so determined
to press on the project of a railway, even though it should have to be worked merely by horse-power,
that the bill had scarcely been thrown out ere they met in London to consider their next step.
They called their parliamentary friends together to consult as to future proceedings; and the
result was that they went back to Liverpool determined to renew their application to Parliament
in the ensuing session.

It was not considered desirable to employ Mr. Stephenson in making the new survey.  He had
not as yet established his reputation as an engineer beyond the boundaries of his own district;
and the promoters of the bill had doubtless felt the disadvantages of this in the course of
their parliamentary struggle.  They therefore resolved now to employ engineers of the highest
established reputation, as well as the best surveyors that could be obtained.  In accordance
with these views they engaged Messrs. George and John Rennie to be the engineers of the railway;
and Mr. Charles Vignolles was appointed to prepare the plans and sections.  The line which
was eventually adopted differed somewhat from that surveyed by Mr. Stephenson.  The principal
parks and game-preserves of the district were carefully avoided.  The promoters thus hoped
to get rid of the opposition of the most influential of the resident landowners.  The crossing
of certain of the streets of Liverpool was also avoided, and the entrance contrived by means
of a tunnel and an inclined plane.  The new line stopped short of the river Irwell at the Manchester
end, by which the objections grounded on an illegal interruption to the canal or river traffic
were in some measure removed.  The opposition of the Duke of Bridgewater’s trustees was also
got rid of, and the Marquis of Stafford became a subscriber for a thousand shares.  With reference
to the use of the locomotive engine, the promoters, remembering with what effect the objections
to it had been urged by the opponents of the bill, intimated, in their second prospectus, that
“as a guarantee of their good faith towards the public they will not require any clause empowering
them to use it; or they will submit to such restrictions in the employment of it as Parliament
may impose.”

The survey of the new line having been completed, the plans were deposited, the standing orders
duly complied with, and the bill went before Parliament.  The same counsel appeared for the
promoters, but the examination of witnesses was not nearly so protracted as on the previous
occasion.  The preamble was declared proved by a majority of 43 to 18. On the third reading
in the House of Commons, an animated, and what now appears a very amusing discussion took place.
The Hon. Edward Stanley moved that the bill be read that day six months; and in his speech
he undertook to prove that the railway trains would take ten hours on the journey, and that
they could only be worked by horses.  Sir Isaac Coffin seconded the motion, and in doing so
denounced the project as a most flagrant imposition.  He would not consent to see widows’ premises
invaded; and “What, he would like to know, was to be done with all those who had advanced money
in making and repairing turnpike-roads?  What was to become of coach-makers and harness-makers,
coach-masters and coachmen, inn-keepers, horse-breeders, and horse-dealers?  Was the house
aware of the smoke and the noise, the hiss and the whirl, which locomotive engines, passing
at the rate of 10 or 12 miles an hour, would occasion? Neither the cattle ploughing in the
fields or grazing in the meadows could behold them without dismay.  Iron would be raised in
price 100 per cent., or more probably exhausted altogether!  It would be the greatest nuisance,
the most complete disturbance of quiet and comfort in all parts of the kingdom, that the ingenuity
of man could invent!”

Mr. Huskisson and other speakers, though unable to reply to such arguments as these, strongly
supported the bill; and it was carried on the third reading by a majority of 88 to 41.  The
bill passed the House of Lords almost unanimously, its only opponents being the Earl of Derby
and his relative the Earl of Wilton.

                    [Picture: Surveying on Chat Moss]

CHAPTER X. CHAT MOSS—CONSTRUCTION OF THE RAILWAY.

The appointment of principal engineer to the railway was taken into consideration at the first
meeting of the directors held at Liverpool subsequent to the passing of the Act.  The magnitude
of the proposed works, and the vast consequences involved in their experiment, were deeply
impressed upon their minds; and they resolved to secure the services of a resident engineer
of proved experience and ability.  Their attention was naturally directed to Mr. Stephenson;
at the same time they desired to have the benefit of the Messrs. Rennie’s professional assistance
in superintending the works.  Mr. George Rennie had an interview with the Board on the subject,
at which he proposed to undertake the chief superintendence, making six visits in each year,
and stipulating that he should have the appointment of the resident engineer. But the responsibility
attaching to the direction in the matter of the efficient carrying on of the works, would not
admit of their being influenced by ordinary punctilios on the occasion; and they accordingly
declined this proposal, and proceeded to appoint Mr. Stephenson their principal engineer at
a salary of £1000 per annum.

He at once removed his residence to Liverpool, and made arrangements to commence the works.
He began with the “impossible thing”—to do that which the most distinguished engineers of the
day had declared that “no man in his senses would undertake to do”—namely, to make the road
over Chat Moss!  It was indeed a most formidable undertaking; and the project of carrying a
railway along, under, or over such a material as that of which it consisted, would certainly
never have occurred to an ordinary mind.  Michael Drayton supposed the Moss to have had its
origin at the Deluge.  Nothing more impassable could have been imagined than that dreary waste;
and Mr. Giles only spoke the popular feeling of the day when he declared that no carriage could
stand on it “short of the bottom.”  In this bog, singular to say, Mr. Roscoe, the accomplished
historian of the Medicis, buried his fortune in the hopeless attempt to cultivate a portion
of it which he had bought.

Chat Moss is an immense peat bog of about twelve square miles in extent. Unlike the bogs or
swamps of Cambridge and Lincolnshire, which consist principally of soft mud or silt, this bog
is a vast mass of spongy vegetable pulp, the result of the growth and decay of ages.  The spagni,
or bog-mosses, cover the entire area; one year’s growth rising over another,—the older growths
not entirely decaying, but remaining partially preserved by the antiseptic properties peculiar
to peat.  Hence the remarkable fact that, although a semifluid mass, the surface of Chat Moss
rises above the level of the surrounding country.  Like a turtle’s back, it declines from the
summit in every direction, having from thirty to forty feet gradual slope to the solid land
on all sides.  From the remains of trees, chiefly alder and birch, which have been dug out
of it, and which must have previously flourished upon the surface of soil now deeply submerged,
it is probable that the sand and clay base on which the bog rests is saucer-shaped, and so
retains the entire mass in position. In rainy weather, such is its capacity for water that
it sensibly swells, and rises in those parts where the moss is the deepest.  This occurs through
the capillary attraction of the fibres of the submerged moss, which is from 20 to 30 feet in
depth, whilst the growing plants effectually check evaporation from the surface.  This peculiar
character of the Moss has presented an insuperable difficulty in the way of reclaiming it by
any system of extensive drainage—such as by sinking shafts, and pumping up the water by steam
power, as has been proposed. Supposing a shaft of 30 feet deep to be sunk, it has been calculated
that this would only be effectual for draining a circle of about 100 yards, the water running
down an incline of about 5 to 1; for it was found in the course of draining the bog, that a
ditch 3 feet deep only served to drain a space of less than 5 yards on each side, and two ditches
of this depth, 10 yards apart, left a portion of the Moss between them scarcely affected by
the drains.

The three resident engineers selected by Mr. Stephenson to superintend the construction of
the line, were Joseph Locke, William Allcard, and John Dixon.  The last was appointed to that
portion which lay across the Moss, neither of the other two envying his lot.  On Mr. Dixon’s
arrival, about July, 1826, Mr. Locke proceeded to show him over the length he was to take charge
of, and to instal him in office.  When they reached Chat Moss, Mr. Dixon found that the line
had already been staked out and the levels taken in detail by the aid of planks laid upon the
bog.  The cutting of the drains along each side of the proposed road had also been commenced;
but the soft pulpy stuff had up to this time flowed into the drains and filled them up as fast
as they were cut.  Proceeding across the Moss, on the first day’s inspection, the new resident,
when about halfway over, slipped off the plank on which he walked, and sank to his knees in
the bog.  Struggling only sent him the deeper, and he might have disappeared altogether, but
for the workmen, who hastened to his assistance upon planks, and rescued him from his perilous
position.  Much disheartened, he desired to return, and even thought of giving up the job;
but Mr. Locke assured him that the worst part was now past; so the new resident plucked up
heart again, and both floundered on until they reached the further edge of the Moss, wet and
plastered over with bog-sludge.  Mr. Dixon’s companions endeavoured to comfort him by the assurance
that he might avoid similar perils, by walking upon “pattens,” or boards fastened to the soles
of his feet, as they had done when taking the levels, and as the workmen did when engaged in
making drains in the softest parts of the Moss.  The resident engineer was sorely puzzled in
the outset by the problem of constructing a road for heavy locomotives, with trains of passengers
and goods, upon a bog which he had found incapable of supporting his own weight!

Mr. Stephenson’s idea was, that such a road might be made to float upon the bog, simply by
means of a sufficient extension of the bearing surface.  As a ship, or a raft, capable of sustaining
heavy loads floated in water, so in his opinion, might a light road be floated upon a bog,
which was of considerably greater consistency than water.  Long before the railway was thought
of, Mr. Roscoe had adopted the remarkable expedient of fitting his plough-horses with flat
wooden soles or pattens, to enable them to walk upon the Moss land which he had brought into
cultivation.  These pattens were fitted on by means of a screw apparatus, which met in front
of the foot and was easily fastened.  The mode by which these pattens served to sustain the
horse is capable of easy explanation, and it will be observed that the rationale likewise explains
the floating of a railway train.  The foot of an ordinary farm-horse presents a base of about
five inches diameter, but if this base be enlarged to seven inches—the circles being to each
other as the squares of the diameters—it will be found that, by this slight enlargement of
the base, a circle of nearly double the area has been secured; and consequently the pressure
of the foot upon every unit of ground upon which the horse stands has been reduced one half.
In fact, this contrivance has an effect tantamount to setting the horse upon eight feet instead
of four.

Apply the same reasoning to the ponderous locomotive, and it will be found, that even such
a machine may be made to stand upon a bog, by means of a similar extension of the bearing surface.
Suppose the engine to be 20 feet long and 5 feet wide, thus covering a surface of 100 square
feet, and, provided the bearing has been extended by means of cross sleepers supported on a
matting of heath and branches of trees covered with a few inches of gravel, the pressure of
an engine of 20 tons will be only equal to about 3 pounds per inch over the whole surface on
which it stands. Such was George Stephenson’s idea in contriving his floating road—something
like an elongated raft across the Moss; and we shall see that he steadily kept it in view in
carrying the work into execution.

The first thing done was to form a footpath of ling or heather along the proposed road, on
which a man might walk without risk of sinking.  A single line of temporary railway was then
laid down, formed of ordinary cross-bars about 3 feet long and an inch square, with holes punched
through them at the ends and nailed down to temporary sleepers.  Along this way ran the waggons
in which were conveyed the materials requisite to form the permanent road.  These waggons carried
about a ton each, and they were propelled by boys running behind them along the narrow iron
rails.  The boys became so expert that they would run the 4 miles across at the rate of 7 or
8 miles an hour without missing a step; if they had done so, they would have sunk in many places
up to their middle.  A comparatively slight extension of the bearing surface being found sufficient
to enable the bog to bear this temporary line, the circumstance was a source of increased confidence
and hope to our engineer in proceeding with the formation of the permanent roadway alongside.

The digging of drains had been proceeding for some time along each side of the intended line;
but they filled up almost as soon as dug, the sides flowing in, and the bottom rising up. 
It was only in some of the drier parts of the bog that a depth of three or four feet could
be reached. The surface-ground between the drains, containing the intertwined roots of heather
and long grass, was left untouched, and upon this was spread branches of trees and hedge-cuttings.
In the softest places, rude gates or hurdles, some 8 or 9 feet long by 4 feet wide, interwoven
with heather, were laid in double thicknesses, their ends overlapping each other; and upon
this floating bed was spread a thin layer of gravel, on which the sleepers, chairs, and rails
were laid in the usual manner. Such was the mode in which the road was formed upon the Moss.

It was found, however, after the permanent way had been thus laid, that there was a tendency
to sinking at those parts where the bog was softest. In ordinary cases, where a bank subsides,
the sleepers are packed up with ballast or gravel; but in this case the ballast was dug away
and removed in order to lighten the road, and the sleepers were packed instead with cakes of
dry turf or bundles of heath.  By these expedients the subsided parts were again floated up
to the level, and an approach was made towards a satisfactory road.  But the most formidable
difficulties were encountered at the centre and towards the edges of the Moss; and it required
no small degree of ingenuity and perseverance on the part of the engineer successfully to overcome
them.

The Moss, as already observed, was highest in the centre, and it there presented a sort of
hunchback with a rising and falling gradient.  At that point it was found necessary to cut
deeper drains in order to consolidate the ground between them on which the road was to be formed.
But, as at other places, the deeper the cutting the more rapid was the flow of fluid bog into
the drain, the bottom rising up almost as fast as it was removed.  To meet this emergency,
numbers of empty tar-barrels were brought from Liverpool; and as soon as a few yards of drain
were dug, the barrels were laid down end to end, firmly fixed to each other by strong slabs
laid over the joints, and nailed.  They were then covered over with clay, and thus formed an
underground sewer of wood instead of bricks.  This expedient was found to answer the purpose
intended, and the road across the centre of the Moss having been so prepared, it was then laid
with the permanent materials.

The greatest difficulty was, however, experienced in forming an embankment upon the edge of
the bog at the Manchester end.  Moss as dry as it could be cut, was brought up in small waggons,
by men and boys, and emptied so as to form an embankment; but the bank had scarcely been raised
three or four feet in height, when the stuff broke through the heathery surface of the bog
and sank out of sight.  More moss was brought up and emptied with no better result; and for
weeks the filling was continued without any visible embankment having been made.  It was the
duty of the resident engineer to proceed to Liverpool every fortnight to obtain the wages for
the workmen employed under him; and on these occasions he was required to colour up, on a section
drawn to a working scale suspended against the wall of the directors’ room, the amount of excavation
and embankment from time to time executed.  But on many of these occasions, Mr. Dixon had no
progress whatever to show for the money expended on the Chat Moss embankment.  Sometimes, indeed,
the visible work done was less than it had appeared a fortnight or a month before!

The directors now became seriously alarmed, and feared that the evil prognostications of the
eminent engineers were about to be fulfilled. The resident engineer was even called upon to
supply an estimate of the cost of forming an embankment of solid stuff throughout, as also
of the cost of piling the roadway, and in effect constructing a four mile viaduct of timber
across the Moss, from twenty to thirty feet high from the foundation.  The expense appalled
the directors, and the question arose, whether the work was to be proceeded with or abandoned!

Mr. Stephenson afterwards described the alarming position of affairs at a public dinner at
Birmingham (23rd December, 1837), on the occasion of a piece of plate being presented to his
son, upon the completion of the London and Birmingham Railway.  He related the anecdote, he
said, for the purpose of impressing upon the minds of those who heard him the necessity of
perseverance.

“After working for weeks and weeks,” said he, “in filling in materials to form the road, there
did not yet appear to be the least sign of our being able to raise the solid embankment one
single inch; in short we went on filling in without the slightest apparent effect.  Even my
assistants began to feel uneasy, and to doubt of the success of the scheme.  The directors,
too, spoke of it as a hopeless task: and at length they became seriously alarmed, so much so,
indeed, that a board meeting was held on Chat Moss to decide whether I should proceed any further.
They had previously taken the opinion of other engineers, who reported unfavourably.  There
was no help for it, however, but to go on.  An immense outlay had been incurred; and great
loss would have been occasioned had the scheme been then abandoned, and the line taken by another
route.  So the directors were compelled to allow me to go on with my plans, of the ultimate
success of which I myself never for one moment doubted.”

During the progress of this part of the works, the Worsley and Trafford men, who lived near
the Moss, and plumed themselves upon their practical knowledge of bog-work, declared the completion
of the road to be utterly impracticable.  “If you knew as much about Chat Moss as we do,” they
said, “you would never have entered on so rash an undertaking; and depend upon it, all you
have done and are doing will prove abortive.  You must give up the idea of a floating railway,
and either fill the Moss hard from the bottom, or deviate so as to avoid it altogether.”  Such
were the conclusions of science and experience.

In the midst of all these alarms and prophecies of failure, Stephenson never lost heart, but
held to his purpose.  His motto was “Persevere!” “You must go on filling in,” he said; “there
is no other help for it. The stuff emptied in is doing its work out of sight, and if you will
but have patience, it will soon begin to show.”  And so the filling in went on; several hundreds
of men and boys were employed to skin the Moss all round for many thousand yards, by means
of sharp spades, called by the turf cutters “tommy-spades;” and the dried cakes of turf were
afterwards used to form the embankment, until at length as the stuff sank and rested upon the
bottom, the bank gradually rose above the surface, and slowly advanced onwards, declining in
height and consequently in weight, until it became joined to the floating road already laid
upon the Moss.  In the course of forming the embankment, the pressure of the bog turf tipped
out of the waggons caused a copious stream of bog-water to flow from the end of it, in colour
resembling Barclay’s double stout; and when completed, the bank looked like a long ridge of
tightly pressed tobacco-leaf.  The compression of the turf may be imagined from the fact that
670,000 cubic yards of raw moss formed only 277,000 cubic yards of embankment at the completion
of the work.

At the western, or Liverpool end of the Chat Moss, there was a like embankment; but, as the
ground there was solid, little difficulty was experienced in forming it, beyond the loss of
substance caused by the oozing out of the water held by the moss-earth.

At another part of the Liverpool and Manchester line, Parr Moss was crossed by an embankment
about 1½ mile in extent.  In the immediate neighbourhood was found a large excess of cutting,
which it would have been necessary to “put out in spoil-banks” (according to the technical
phrase); but the surplus clay, stone, and shale, were tipped, waggon after waggon, into Parr
Moss, until a solid but concealed embankment, from fifteen to twenty-five feet high, was formed,
although to the eye it appears to be laid upon the level of the adjoining surface, as at Chat Moss.

The road across Chat Moss was finished by the 1st January, 1830, when the first experimental
train of passengers passed over it, drawn by the “Rocket;” and it turned out that, instead
of being the most expensive part of the line, it was about the cheapest.  The total cost of
forming the line over the Moss was £28,000, whereas Mr. Giles’s estimate was £270,000!  It
also proved to be one of the best portions of the railway. Being a floating road, it was smooth
and easy to run upon, just as Dr. Arnott’s water-bed is soft and easy to lie upon—the pressure
being equal at all points.  There was, and still is, a sort of springiness in the road over
the Moss, such as is felt in passing along a suspended bridge; and those who looked along the
line as a train passed over it, said they could observe a waviness, such as precedes and follows
a skater upon ice.

During the progress of these works the most ridiculous rumours were set afloat.  The drivers
of the stage-coaches who feared for their calling, brought the alarming intelligence into Manchester
from time to time, that “Chat Moss was blown up!”  “Hundreds of men and horses had sunk; and
the works were completely abandoned!”  The engineer himself was declared to have been swallowed
up in the Serbonian bog; and “railways were at an end for ever!”

In the construction of the railway, Mr. Stephenson’s capacity for organising and directing
the labours of a large number of workmen of all kinds eminently displayed itself.  A vast quantity
of ballast-waggons had to be constructed, and implements and materials collected, before the
army of necessary labourers could be efficiently employed at the various points of the line.
There were not at that time, as there are now, large contractors possessed of railway plant,
capable of executing earth-works on a large scale.  The first railway engineer had not only
to contrive the plant, but to organise and direct the labour.  The labourers themselves had
to be trained to their work; and it was on the Liverpool and Manchester line that Mr. Stephenson
organised the staff of that mighty band of railway navvies, whose handiworks will be the wonder
and admiration of succeeding generations.  Looking at their gigantic traces, the men of some
future age may be found to declare of the engineer and of his workmen, that “there were giants
in those days.”

Although the works of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway are of a much less formidable character
than those of many lines that have since been constructed, they were then regarded as of the
most stupendous description.  In deed, the like of them had not before been executed in England.
It had been our engineer’s original intention carry the railway from the north end of Liverpool,
round the red-sandstone ridge on which the upper part of the town is built, and also round
the higher rise of the coal formation at Rainhill, by following the natural levels.  But the
opposition of the landowners having forced the line more to the south, it was rendered necessary
to cut through the hills, and go over the high grounds instead of round them.  The first consequence
of this alteration in the plans was the necessity for constructing a tunnel under the town
of Liverpool 1½ mile in length; the second, a long and deep cutting through the red-sandstone
rock at Olive Mount; and the third and most serious of all, was the necessity for surmounting
the Whiston and Sutton hills by inclined planes of 1 in 96.  The line was also, by the same
forced deviation, prevented passing through the Lancashire coal-field, and the engineer was
compelled to carry it across the Sankey valley, at a point where the waters of the brook had
dug out an excessively deep channel through the marl-beds of the district.

The principal difficulty was experienced in pushing on the works connected with the formation
of the tunnel under Liverpool, 2200 yards in length.  The blasting and hewing of the rock were
vigorously carried on night and day; and the engineer’s practical experience in the collieries
here proved of great use to him.  Many obstacles had to be encountered and overcome in the
formation of the tunnel, the rock varying in hardness and texture at different parts.  In some
places the miners were deluged by water, which surged from the soft blue shale found at the
lowest level of the tunnel.  In other places, beds of wet sand were cut through; and there
careful propping and pinning were necessary to prevent the roof from tumbling in, until the
masonry to support it could be erected.  On one occasion, while the engineer was absent from
Liverpool, a mass of loose moss-earth and sand fell from the roof, which had been insufficiently
propped.  The miners withdrew from the work; and on Stephenson’s return, he found them in a
refractory state, refusing to re-enter the tunnel.  He induced them, however, by his example,
to return to their labours; and when the roof had been secured, the work went on again as before.
When there was danger, he was always ready to share it with the men; and gathering confidence
from his fearlessness, they proceeded vigorously with the undertaking, boring and mining their
way towards the light.

                      [Picture: Olive Mount Cutting]

The Olive Mount cutting was the first extensive stone cutting executed on any railway, and
to this day it is one of the most formidable.  It is about two miles long, and in some parts
80 feet deep.  It is a narrow ravine or defile cut out of the solid rock; and not less than
480,000 cubic yards of stone were removed from it.  Mr. Vignolles, afterwards describing it,
said it looked as if it had been dug out by giants.

The crossing of so many roads and streams involved the necessity for constructing an unusual
number of bridges.  There were not fewer than 63, under or over the railway, on the 30 miles
between Liverpool and Manchester.  Up to this time, bridges had been applied generally to high
roads where inclined approaches were of comparatively small importance, and in determining
the rise of his arch the engineer selected any headway he thought proper.  Every consideration
was indeed made subsidiary to constructing the bridge itself, and the completion of one large
structure of this sort was regarded as an epoch in engineering history.  Yet here, in the course
of a few years, no fewer than 63 bridges were constructed on one line of railway!  Mr. Stephenson
early found that the ordinary arch was inapplicable in certain cases, where the headway was
limited, and yet the level of the railway must be preserved.  In such cases he employed simple
cast-iron beams, by which he safely bridged gaps of moderate width, economizing headway, and
introducing the use of a new material of the greatest possible value to the railway engineer.
The bridges of masonry upon the line were of many kinds; several of them askew bridges, and
others, such as those at Newton and over the Irwell at Manchester, straight and of considerable
dimensions; but the principal piece of masonry was the Sankey viaduct.

                        [Picture: Sankey Viaduct]

This fine work is principally of brick, with stone facings.  It consists of nine arches of
fifty feet span each.  The massive piers are supported on two hundred piles driven deep into
the soil; and they rise to a great height,—the coping of the parapet being seventy feet above
the level of the valley, in which flow the Sankey brook and canal.  Its total cost was about
£45,000.

By the end of 1828 the directors found they had expended £460,000 on the works, and that they
were still far from completion.  They looked at the loss of interest on this large investment,
and began to grumble at the delay.  They desired to see their capital becoming productive;
and in the spring of 1829 they urged the engineer to push on the works with increased vigour.
Mr. Cropper, one of the directors, who took an active interest in their progress, said to Stephenson
one day, “Now, George, thou must get on with the railway, and have it finished without further
delay; thou must really have it ready for opening by the first day of January next.”  “Consider
the heavy character of the works, sir, and how much we have been delayed by the want of money,
not to speak of the wetness of the weather: it is impossible.”  “Impossible!” rejoined Cropper;
“I wish I could get Napoleon to thee—he would tell thee there is no such word as ‘impossible’
in the vocabulary.”  “Tush!” exclaimed Stephenson, with warmth; “don’t speak to me about Napoleon!
Give me men, money, and materials, and I will do what Napoleon couldn’t do—drive a railway
from Liverpool to Manchester over Chat Moss!”

The works made rapid progress in the course of the year 1829.  Double sets of labourers were
employed on Chat Moss and at other points, by night and day, the night shifts working by torch
and fire light; and at length, the work advancing at all points, the directors saw their way
to the satisfactory completion of the undertaking.

It may well be supposed that Mr. Stephenson’s time was fully occupied in superintending the
extensive, and for the most part novel works, connected with the railway, and that even his
extraordinary powers of labour and endurance were taxed to the utmost during the four years
that they were in progress.  Almost every detail in the plans was directed and arranged by
himself.  Every bridge, from the simplest to the most complicated, including the then novel
structure of the “skew bridge,” iron girders, siphons, fixed engines, and the machinery for
working the tunnel at the Liverpool end, had to be thought out by his own head, and reduced
to definite plans under his own eyes.  Besides all this, he had to design the working plant
in anticipation of the opening of the railway.  He must be prepared with waggons, trucks, and
carriages, himself superintending their manufacture.  The permanent road, turntables, switches,
and crossings,—in short, the entire structure and machinery of the line, from the turning of
the first sod to the running of the first train of carriages upon the railway,—were executed
under his immediate supervision.  And it was in the midst of this vast accumulation of work
and responsibility that the battle of the locomotive engine had to be fought,—a battle, not
merely against material difficulties, but against the still more trying obstructions of deeply-rooted
mistrust and prejudice on the part of a considerable minority of the directors.

He had no staff of experienced assistants,—not even a staff of draughtsmen in his office,—but
only a few pupils learning their business; and he was frequently without even their help. 
The time of his engineering inspectors was fully occupied in the actual superintendence of
the works at different parts of the line; and he took care to direct all their more important
operations in person.  The principal draughtsman was Mr. Thomas Gooch, a pupil he had brought
with him from Newcastle.  “I may say,” writes Mr. Gooch, “that nearly the whole of the working
and other drawings, as well as the various land-plans for the railway, were drawn by my own
hand.  They were done at the Company’s office in Clayton Square during the day, from instructions
supplied in the evenings by Mr. Stephenson, either by word of mouth, or by little rough hand-sketches
on letter-paper.  The evenings were also generally devoted to my duties as secretary, in writing
(mostly from his own dictation) his letters and reports, or in making calculations and estimates.
The mornings before breakfast were not unfrequently spent by me in visiting and lending a helping
hand in the tunnel and other works near Liverpool,—the untiring zeal and perseverance of George
Stephenson never for an instant flagging and inspiring with a like enthusiasm all who were
engaged under him in carrying forward the works.” {189}

The usual routine of his life at this time—if routine it might be called—was, to rise early,
by sunrise in summer and before it in winter, and thus “break the back of the day’s work” by
mid-day.  While the tunnel under Liverpool was in progress, one of his first duties in a morning
before breakfast was to go over the various shafts, clothed in a suitable dress, and inspect
their progress at different points; on other days he would visit the extensive workshops at
Edgehill, where most of the “plant” for the line was in course of manufacture.  Then, returning
to his house, in Upper Parliament Street, Windsor, after a hurried breakfast, he would ride
along the works to inspect their progress, and push them on with greater energy where needful.
On other days he would prepare for the much less congenial engagement of meeting the Board,
which was often a cause of great anxiety and pain to him; for it was difficult to satisfy men
of all tempers, and some of these not of the most generous sort.  On such occasions he might
be seen with his right-hand thumb thrust through the topmost button-hole of his coat-breast,
vehemently hitching his right shoulder, as was his habit when labouring under any considerable
excitement.  Occasionally he would take an early ride before breakfast, to inspect the progress
of the Sankey viaduct.  He had a favourite horse, brought by him from Newcastle, called “Bobby,”—so
tractable that, with his rider on his back, he would walk up to a locomotive with the steam
blowing off, and put his nose against it without shying.  “Bobby,” saddled and bridled, was
brought to Mr. Stephenson’s door betimes in the morning; and mounting him, he would ride the
fifteen miles to Sankey, putting up at a little public house which then stood upon the banks
of the canal.  There he had his breakfast of “crowdie,” which he made with his own hands. 
It consisted of oatmeal stirred into a basin of hot water,—a sort of porridge,—which was supped
with cold sweet milk.  After this frugal breakfast, he would go upon the works, and remain
there, riding from point to point for the greater part of the day.  When he returned before
mid-day, he examined the pay-sheets in the different departments, sent in by the assistant
engineers, or by the foremen of the workshops.  To all these he gave his most careful personal
attention, requiring when necessary a full explanation of the items.

After a late dinner, which occupied very short time and was always of a plain and frugal description,
he disposed of his correspondence, or prepared sketches of drawings, and gave instructions
as to their completion.  He would occasionally refresh himself for this evening work by a short
doze, which, however, he would never admit had exceeded the limits of “winking,” to use his
own term.  Mr. Frederick Swanwick, who officiated as his secretary, after the appointment of
Mr. Gooch as Resident Engineer to the Bolton and Leigh Railway, has informed us that he then
remarked—what in after years he could better appreciate—the clear, terse, and vigorous style
of Mr. Stephenson’s dictation.  There was nothing superfluous in it; but it was close, direct,
and to the point,—in short, thoroughly businesslike.  And if, in passing through the pen of
the amanuensis, his meaning happened in any way to be distorted or modified, it did not fail
to escape his detection, though he was always tolerant of any liberties taken with his own
form of expression, so long as the words written down conveyed his real meaning.

His letters and reports written, and his sketches of drawings made and explained, the remainder
of the evening was usually devoted to conversation with his wife and those of his pupils who
lived under his roof, and constituted, as it were, part of the family.  He then delighted to
test the knowledge of his young companions, and to question them upon the principles of mechanics.
If they were not quite “up to the mark” on any point, there was no escaping detection by evasive
or specious explanations.  These always brought out the verdict, “Ah! you know nought about
it now; but think it over again, and tell me when you understand it.”  If there were even partial
success in the reply, it was at once acknowledged, and a full explanation given, to which the
master would add illustrative examples for the purpose of impressing the principle more deeply
upon the pupil’s mind.

It was not so much his object and purpose to “cram” the minds of the young men committed to
his charge with the results of knowledge, as to stimulate them to educate themselves—to induce
them to develop their mental and moral powers by the exercise of their own free energies, and
thus acquire that habit of self-thinking and self-reliance which is the spring of all true
manly action.  In a word, he sought to bring out and invigorate the character of his pupils.
He felt that he himself had been made stronger and better through his encounters with difficulty;
and he would not have the road of knowledge made too smooth and easy for them.  “Learn for
yourselves,—think for yourselves,” he would say:—“make yourselves masters of principles,—persevere,—be
industrious,—and there is then no fear of you.”  And not the least emphatic proof of the soundness
of this system of education, as conducted by Mr. Stephenson, was afforded by the after history
of these pupils themselves.  There was not one of those trained under his eye who did not rise
to eminent usefulness and distinction as an engineer.  He sent them forth into the world braced
with the spirit of manly self-help—inspired by his own noble example; and they repeated in
their after career the lessons of earnest effort and persistent industry which his daily life
had taught them.

Stephenson’s evenings at home were not, however, exclusively devoted either to business or
to the graver exercises above referred to.  He would often indulge in cheerful conversation
and anecdote, falling back from time to time upon the struggles and difficulties of his early
life. The not unfrequent winding up of his story addressed to the young men about him, was,
“Ah! ye young fellows don’t know what wark is in these days!”  Mr. Swanwick takes pleasure
in recalling to mind how seldom, if ever, a cross or captious word, or an angry look, marred
the enjoyment of those evenings.  The presence of Mrs. Stephenson gave them an additional charm:
amiable, kind-hearted, and intelligent, she shared quietly in the pleasure of the party; and
the atmosphere of comfort which always pervaded her home contributed in no small degree to
render it a centre of cheerful, hopeful intercourse, and of earnest, honest industry.  She
was a wife who well deserved, what she through life retained, the strong and unremitting affection
of her husband.

When Mr. Stephenson retired for the night, it was not always that he permitted himself to sink
into slumber.  Like Brindley, he worked out many a difficult problem in bed; and for hours
he would turn over in his mind and study how to overcome some obstacle, or to mature some project,
on which his thoughts were bent.  Some remark inadvertently dropped by him at the breakfast-table
in the morning, served to show that he had been stealing some hours from the past night in
reflection and study. Yet he would rise at his accustomed early hour, and there was no abatement
of his usual energy in carrying on the business of the day.

On his return from Edinburgh College in the summer of 1823, he had assisted in the survey of
the Stockton and Darlington line; and when the Locomotive Engine Works were started in Forth
Street, Newcastle, he took an active part in that concern.  “The factory,” he says, “was in
active operation early in 1824; I left England for Colombia in June of that year, having finished
drawing the designs of the Brusselton stationary engines for the Stockton and Darlington Railway
before I left.” {193}

Speculation was very rife at the time; and amongst the most promising adventures were the companies
organised for the purpose of working the gold and silver mines of South America.  Great difficulty
was experienced in finding mining engineers capable of carrying out those projects, and young
men of even the most moderate experience were eagerly sought after. The Columbian Mining Association
of London offered an engagement to young Stephenson, to go out to Mariquita and take charge
of the engineering operations of that company.  Robert was himself desirous of accepting it,
but his father said it would first be necessary to ascertain whether the proposed change would
be for his good.  His health had been very delicate for some time, partly occasioned by his
rapid growth, but principally because of his close application to work and study.  Father and
son together called upon Dr. Headlam, the eminent physician of Newcastle, to consult him on
the subject.  During the examination which ensued, Robert afterwards used to say that he felt
as if he were upon trial for life or death.  To his great relief, the doctor pronounced that
a temporary residence in a warm climate was the very thing likely to be most beneficial to
him.  The appointment was accordingly accepted, and, before many weeks had passed, Robert Stephenson
set sail for South America.

After a tolerably prosperous voyage he landed at La Guayra, on the north coast of Venezuela,
on the 23rd July, from thence proceeding to Caraccas, the capital of the district, about 15
miles inland.  There he remained for two months, unable to proceed in consequence of the wretched
state of the roads in the interior.  He contrived, however, to make occasional excursions in
the neighbourhood, with an eye to the mining business on which he had come.  About the beginning
of October he set out for Bogota, the capital of Columbia or New Granada.  The distance was
about 1200 miles, through a very difficult region, and it was performed entirely upon mule-back
after the fashion of the country.

In the course of the journey Robert visited many of the districts reported to be rich in minerals,
but he met with few traces except of copper, iron, and coal, with occasional indications of
gold and silver. He found the people ready to furnish information, which, however, when tested,
usually proved worthless.  A guide whom he employed for weeks, kept him buoyed up with the
hope of richer mining quarters than he had yet seen; but when he professed to be able to show
him mines of “brass, steel, alcohol, and pinchbeck,” Stephenson discovered him to be an incorrigible
rogue, and immediately dismissed him.  At length our traveller reached Bogota, and after an
interview with Mr. Illingworth, the commercial manager of the mining Company, he proceeded
to Honda, crossed the Magdalena, and shortly after reached the site of his intended operations
on the eastern slopes of the Andes.

Mr. Stephenson used afterwards to speak in glowing terms of this his first mule-journey in
South America.  Everything was entirely new to him. The variety and beauty of the indigenous
plants, the luxurious tropical vegetation, the appearance, manners, and dress of the people,
and the mode of travelling, were altogether different from everything he had before seen. 
His own travelling garb also must have been strange even to himself.  “My hat,” he says, “was
of plaited grass, with a crown nine inches in height, surrounded by a brim of six inches; a
white cotton suit; and a ruana of blue and crimson plaid, with a hole in the centre for the
head to pass through.  This cloak is admirably adapted for the purpose, amply covering the
rider and mule, and at night answering the purpose of a blanket in the net-hammock, which is
made from fibres of the aloe, and which every traveller carries before him on his mule, and
suspends to the trees or in houses, as occasion may require.”  The part of the journey which
seems to have made the most lasting impression on his mind was that between Bogota and the
mining district in the neighbourhood of Mariquita.  As he ascended the slopes of the mountain-range,
and reached the first step of the table-land, he was struck beyond expression with the noble
view of the valley of the Magdalena behind him, so vast that he failed in attempting to define
the point at which the course of the river blended with the horizon.  Like all travellers in
the district, he noted the remarkable changes of climate and vegetation, as he rose from the
burning plains towards the fresh breath of the mountains.  From an atmosphere as hot as that
of an oven he passed into delicious cool air; until, in his onward and upward journey, a still
more temperate region was reached, the very perfection of climate.  Before him rose the majestic
Cordilleras, forming a rampart against the western skies, at certain times of the day looking
black, sharp, and, at their summit, almost as even as a wall.

Our engineer took up his abode for a time at Mariquita, a fine old city, though then greatly
decayed.  During the period of the Spanish dominion, it was an important place, most of the
gold and silver convoys passing through it on their way to Cartagena, there to be shipped in
galleons for Europe.  The mountainous country to the west was rich in silver, gold, and other
metals, and it was Mr. Stephenson’s object to select the best site for commencing operations
for the Company.  With this object he “prospected” about in all directions, visiting long-abandoned
mines, and analysing specimens obtained from many quarters.  The mines eventually fixed upon
as the scene of his operations were those of La Manta and Santa Anna, long before worked by
the Spaniards, though, in consequence of the luxuriance and rapidity of the vegetation, all
traces of the old workings had become completely overgrown and lost.  Everything had to be
begun anew.  Roads had to be cut to the mines, machinery to be erected, and the ground opened
up, in course of which some of the old adits were hit upon.  The native peons or labourers
were not accustomed to work, and at first they usually contrived to desert when they were not
watched, so that very little progress could be made until the arrival of the expected band
of miners from England.  The authorities were by no means helpful, and the engineer was driven
to an old expedient with the object of overcoming this difficulty.  “We endeavour all we can,”
he says, in one of his letters, “to make ourselves popular, and this we find most effectually
accomplished by ‘regaling the venal beasts.’” {196}  He also gave a ball at Mariquita, which
passed off with éclat, the governor from Honda, with a host of friends, honouring it with their
presence.  It was, indeed, necessary to “make a party” in this way, as other schemers were
already trying to undermine the Colombian company in influential directions.  The engineer
did not exaggerate when he said, “The uncertainty of transacting business in this country is
perplexing beyond description.”

At last, his party of miners arrived from England, but they gave him even more trouble than
the peons had done.  They were rough, drunken, and sometimes altogether ungovernable.  He set
them to work at the Santa Anna mine without delay, and at the same time took up his abode amongst
them, “to keep them,” he said, “if possible, from indulging in the detestable vice of drunkenness,
which, if not put a stop to, will eventually destroy themselves, and involve the mining association
in ruin.”  To add to his troubles, the captain of the miners displayed a very hostile and insubordinate
spirit, quarrelled and fought with the men, and was insolent to the engineer himself.  The
captain and his gang, being Cornish men, told Robert to his face, that because he was a North-country
man, and not born in Cornwall it was impossible he should know anything of mining.  Disease
also fell upon him,—first fever, and then visceral derangement, followed by a return of his
“old complaint, a feeling of oppression in the breast.”  No wonder that in the midst of these
troubles he should longingly speak of returning to his native land.  But he stuck to his post
and his duty, kept up his courage, and by a mixture of mildness and firmness, and the display
of great coolness of judgment, he contrived to keep the men to their work, and gradually to
carry forward the enterprise which he had undertaken.  By the beginning of July, 1826, we find
that quietness and order had been restored, and the works were proceeding more satisfactorily,
though the yield of silver was not as yet very promising.  Mr. Stephenson calculated that at
least three years’ diligent and costly operations would be needed to render the mines productive.

In the mean time he removed to the dwelling which had been erected for his accommodation at
Santa Anna.  It was a structure speedily raised after the fashion of the country.

           [Picture: Robert Stephenson’s Cottage at Santa Anna]

The walls were of split and flattened bamboo, tied together with the long fibres of a dried
climbing plant; the roof was of palm-leaves, and the ceiling of reeds.  When an earthquake
shook the district—for earthquakes were frequent—the inmates of such a fabric merely felt as
if shaken in a basket, without sustaining any harm.  In front of the cottage lay a woody ravine,
extending almost to the base of the Andes, gorgeously clothed in primeval vegetation—magnolias,
palms, bamboos, tree-ferns, acacias, cedars; and, towering over all, the great almendrons,
with their smooth, silvery stems, bearing aloft noble clusters of pure white blossom.  The
forest was haunted by myriads of gay insects, butterflies with wings of dazzling lustre, birds
of brilliant plumage, humming-birds, golden orioles, toucans, and a host of solitary warblers.
But the glorious sunsets seen from his cottage-porch more than all astonished and delighted
the young engineer; and he was accustomed to say that, after having witnessed them, he was
reluctant to accuse the ancient Peruvians of idolatry.

But all these natural beauties failed to reconcile him to the harassing difficulties of his
situation, which continued to increase rather than diminish.  He was hampered by the action
of the Board at home, who gave ear to hostile criticisms on his reports; and, although they
afterwards made handsome acknowledgment of his services, he felt his position to be altogether
unsatisfactory.  He therefore determined to leave at the expiry of his three years engagement,
and communicated his decision to the directors accordingly.  On receiving his letter, the Board,
through Mr. Richardson, of Lombard street, one of the directors, communicated with his father
at Newcastle, representing that if he would allow his son to remain in Colombia the Company
would make it “worth his while.”  To this the father gave a decided negative, and intimated
that he himself needed his son’s assistance, and that he must return at the expiry of his three
years’ term,—a decision, writes Robert, “at which I feel much gratified, as it is clear that
he is as anxious to have me back in England as I am to get there.” {199}  At the same time,
Edward Pease, a principal partner in the Newcastle firm, privately wrote Robert to the following
effect, urging his return home:—“I can assure thee that thy business at Newcastle, as well
as thy father’s engineering, have suffered very much from thy absence, and, unless thou soon
return, the former will be given up, as Mr. Longridge is not able to give it that attention
it requires; and what is done is not done with credit to the house.”  The idea of the manufactory
being given up, which Robert had laboured so hard to establish before leaving England, was
painful to him in the extreme, and he wrote to the manager of the Company, strongly urging
that arrangements should be made for him to leave without delay.  In the mean time he was again
laid prostrate by another violent attack of aguish fever; and when able to write in June, 1827,
he expressed himself as “completely wearied and worn down with vexation.”

At length, when he was sufficiently recovered from his attack and able to travel, he set out
on his voyage homeward in the beginning of August.  At Mompox, on his way down the river Magdalena,
he met Mr. Bodmer, his successor, with a fresh party of miners from England, on their way up
the country to the quarters which he had just quitted.  Next day, six hours after leaving Mompox,
a steamboat was met ascending the river, with Bolivar the Liberator on board, on his way to
St. Bogota; and it was a mortification to our engineer that he had only a passing sight of
that distinguished person.  It was his intention, on leaving Mariquita, to visit the Isthmus
of Panama on his way home, for the purpose of inquiring into the practicability of cutting
a canal to unite the Atlantic and Pacific—a project which then formed the subject of considerable
public discussion; but his presence being so anxiously desired at home, he determined to proceed
to New York without delay.

Arrived at the port of Cartagena, he had to wait some time for a ship. The delay was very irksome
to him, the more so as the city was then desolated by the ravages of the yellow fever.  While
sitting one day in the large, bare, comfortless public room at the miserable hotel at which
he put up, he observed two strangers, whom he at once perceived to be English.  One of the
strangers was a tall, gaunt man, shrunken and hollow-looking, shabbily dressed, and apparently
poverty-stricken.  On making inquiry, he found it was Trevithick, the builder of the first
railroad locomotive!  He was returning home from the gold-mines of Peru penniless.  He had
left England in 1816, with powerful steam-engines, intended for the drainage and working of
the Peruvian mines.  He met with almost a royal reception on his landing at Lima.  A guard
of honour was appointed to attend him, and it was even proposed to erect a statue of Don Ricardo
Trevithick in solid silver.  It was given forth in Cornwall that his emoluments amounted to
£100,000 a year, {201} and that he was making a gigantic fortune.  Great, therefore, was Robert
Stephenson’s surprise to find this potent Don Ricardo in the inn at Cartagena, reduced almost
to his last shilling, and unable to proceed further.  He had indeed realised the truth of the
Spanish proverb, that “a silver-mine brings misery, a gold-mine ruin.”  He and his friend had
lost everything in their journey across the country from Peru.  They had forded rivers and
wandered through forests, leaving all their baggage behind them, and had reached thus far with
little more than the clothes upon their backs. Almost the only remnant of precious metal saved
by Trevithick was a pair of silver spurs, which he took back with him to Cornwall.  Robert
Stephenson lent him £50 to enable him to reach England; and though he was afterwards heard
of as an inventor there, he had no further part in the ultimate triumph of the locomotive.

But Trevithick’s misadventures on this occasion had not yet ended, for before he reached New
York he was wrecked, and Robert Stephenson with him.  The following is the account of the voyage,
“big with adventures,” as given by the latter in a letter to his friend Illingworth:—“At first
we had very little foul weather, and indeed were for several days becalmed amongst the islands,
which was so far fortunate, for a few degrees further north the most tremendous gales were
blowing, and they appear (from our future information) to have wrecked every vessel exposed
to their violence.  We had two examples of the effects of the hurricane; for, as we sailed
north we took on board the remains of two crews found floating about on dismantled hulls. 
The one had been nine days without food of any kind, except the carcasses of two of their companions
who had died a day or two previously from fatigue and hunger.  The other crew had been driven
about for six days, and were not so dejected, but reduced to such a weak state that they were
obliged to be drawn on board our vessel by ropes.  A brig bound for Havannah took part of the
men, and we took the remainder.  To attempt any description of my feelings on witnessing such
scenes would be in vain.  You will not be surprised to learn that I felt somewhat uneasy at
the thought that we were so far from England, and that I also might possibly suffer similar
shipwreck; but I consoled myself with the hope that fate would be more kind to us.  It was
not so much so, however, as I had flattered myself; for on voyaging towards New York, after
we had made the land, we ran aground about midnight.  The vessel soon filled with water, and,
being surrounded by the breaking surf, the ship was soon split up, and before morning our situation
became perilous.  Masts and all were cut away to prevent the hull rocking; but all we could
do was of no avail.  About 8 o’clock on the following morning, after a most miserable night,
we were taken off the wreck, and were so fortunate as to reach the shore.  I saved my minerals,
but Empson lost part of his botanical collection.  Upon the whole, we got off well; and, had
I not been on the American side of the Atlantic, I ‘guess’ I would not have gone to sea again.”

After a short tour in the United States and Canada, Robert Stephenson and his friend took ship
for Liverpool, where they arrived at the end of November, and at once proceeded to Newcastle.
The factory was by no means in a prosperous state.  During the time Robert had been in America
it had been carried on at a loss; and Edward Pease, much disheartened, wished to retire, but
George Stephenson was unable to buy him out, and the establishment had to be carried on in
the hope that the locomotive might yet be established in public estimation as a practical and
economical working power.  Robert Stephenson immediately instituted a rigid inquiry into the
working of the concern, unravelled the accounts, which had fallen into confusion during his
father’s absence at Liverpool; and he soon succeeded in placing the affairs of the factory
in a more healthy condition.  In all this he had the hearty support of his father, as well
as of the other partners.

The works of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway were now approaching completion.  But, singular
to say, the directors had not yet decided as to the tractive power to be employed in working
the line when opened for traffic.  The differences of opinion among them were so great as apparently
to be irreconcilable.  It was necessary, however, that they should come to some decision without
further loss of time; and many Board meetings were accordingly held to discuss the subject.
The old-fashioned and well-tried system of horse haulage was not without its advocates; but,
looking at the large amount of traffic which there was to be conveyed, and at the probable
delay in the transit from station to station if this method were adopted, the directors, after
a visit made by them to the Northumberland and Durham railways in 1828, came to the conclusion
that the employment of horse power was inadmissible.

Fixed engines had many advocates; the locomotive very few: it stood as yet almost in a minority
of one—George Stephenson.  The prejudice against the employment of the latter power had even
increased since the Liverpool and Manchester Bill underwent its first ordeal in the House of
Commons. In proof of this, we may mention that the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway Act was conceded
in 1829, on the express condition that it should not be worked by locomotives, but by horses only.

Grave doubts existed as to the practicability of working a large traffic by means of travelling
engines.  The most celebrated engineers offered no opinion on the subject.  They did not believe
in the locomotive, and would scarcely take the trouble to examine it.  The ridicule with which
George Stephenson had been assailed by the barristers before the Parliamentary Committee had
not been altogether distasteful to them. Perhaps they did not relish the idea of a man who
had picked up his experience in Newcastle coal-pits appearing in the capacity of a leading
engineer before Parliament, and attempting to establish a new system of internal communication
in the country.  The directors could not disregard the adverse and conflicting views of the
professional men whom they consulted.  But Mr. Stephenson had so repeatedly and earnestly urged
upon them the propriety of making a trial of the locomotive before coming to any decision against
it, that they at length authorised him to proceed with the construction of one of his engines
by way of experiment.  In their report to the proprietors at their annual meeting on, the 27th
March, 1828, they state that they had, after due consideration, authorised the engineer “to
prepare a locomotive engine, which, from the nature of its construction and from the experiments
already made, he is of opinion will be effective for the purposes of the Company, without proving
an annoyance to the public.”  The locomotive thus ordered was placed upon the line in 1829,
and was found of great service in drawing the waggons full of marl from the two great cuttings.

In the mean time the discussion proceeded as to the kind of power to be permanently employed
for the working of the railway.  The directors were inundated with schemes of all sorts for
facilitating locomotion.  The projectors of England, France, and America, seemed to be let
loose upon them.  There were plans for working the waggons along the line by water power. 
Some proposed hydrogen, and others carbonic acid gas. Atmospheric pressure had its eager advocates.
And various kinds of fixed and locomotive steam-power were suggested.  Thomas Gray urged his
plan of a greased road with cog rails; and Messrs. Vignolles and Ericsson recommended the adoption
of a central friction rail, against which two horizontal rollers under the locomotive, pressing
upon the sides of this rail, were to afford the means of ascending the inclined planes.  The
directors felt themselves quite unable to choose from amidst this multitude of projects.  The
engineer expressed himself as decidedly as heretofore in favour of smooth rails and locomotive
engines, which, he was confident, would be found the most economical and by far the most convenient
moving power that could be employed.  The Stockton and Darlington Railway being now at work,
another deputation went down personally to inspect the fixed and locomotive engines on that
line, as well as at Hetton and Killingworth.  They returned to Liverpool with much information;
but their testimony as to the relative merits of the two kinds of engines was so contradictory,
that the directors were as far from a decision as ever.

They then resolved to call to their aid two professional engineers of high standing, who should
visit the Darlington and Newcastle railways, carefully examine both modes of working—the fixed
and the locomotive,—and report to them fully on the subject.  The gentlemen selected were Mr.
Walker of Limehouse, and Mr. Rastrick of Stourbridge.  After carefully examining the modes
of working the northern railways, they made their report to the directors in the spring of
1829.  They concurred in the opinion that the cost of an establishment of fixed engines would
be somewhat greater than that of locomotives to do the same work; but thought the annual charge
would be less if the former were adopted.  They calculated that the cost of moving a ton of
goods thirty miles by fixed engines would be 6.40d., and by locomotives, 8.36d.,—assuming a
profitable traffic to be obtained both ways.  At the same time it was admitted that there appeared
more ground for expecting improvements in the construction and working of locomotives than
of stationary engines. On the whole, however, and looking especially at the computed annual
charge of working the road on the two systems on a large scale, the two reporting engineers
were of opinion that fixed engines were preferable, and accordingly recommended their adoption.
And, in order to carry the system recommended by them into effect, they proposed to divide
the railroad between Liverpool and Manchester into nineteen stages of about a mile and a half
each, with twenty-one engines fixed at the different points to work the trains forward.

Such was the result, so far, of George Stephenson’s labours.  Two of the best practical engineers
of the day concurred in reporting substantially in favour of the employment of fixed engines.
Not a single professional man of eminence supported the engineer in his preference for locomotive
over fixed engine power.  He had scarcely an adherent, and the locomotive system seemed on
the eve of being abandoned.  Still he did not despair. With the profession as well as public
opinion against him—for the most frightful stories were abroad respecting the dangers, the
unsightliness, and the nuisance which the locomotive would create—Stephenson held to his purpose.
Even in this, apparently the darkest hour of the locomotive, he did not hesitate to declare
that locomotive railroads would, before many years had passed, be “the great highways of the
world.”

He urged his views upon the directors in all ways, and, as some of them thought, at all seasons.
He pointed out the greater convenience of locomotive power for the purposes of a public highway,
likening it to a series of short unconnected chains, any one of which could be removed and
another substituted without interruption to the traffic; whereas the fixed engine system might
be regarded in the light of a continuous chain extending between the two termini, the failure
of any link of which would derange the whole. {206}  He represented to the Board that the locomotive
was yet capable of great improvements, if proper inducements were held out to inventors and
machinists to make them; and he pledged himself that, if time were given him, he would construct
an engine that should satisfy their requirements, and prove itself capable of working heavy
loads along the railway with speed, regularity and safety.  At length, influenced by his persistent
earnestness not less than by his arguments, the directors, at the suggestion of Mr. Harrison,
determined to offer a prize of £500 for the best locomotive engine, which, on a certain day,
should be produced on the railway, and perform certain specified conditions in the most satisfactory
manner. {207}

It was now felt that the fate of railways in a great measure depended upon the issue of this
appeal to the mechanical genius of England.  When the advertisement of the prize for the best
locomotive was published, scientific men began more particularly to direct their attention
to the new power which was thus struggling into existence.  In the mean time public opinion
on the subject of railway working remained suspended, and the progress of the undertaking was
watched with intense interest.

During the progress of the discussion with reference to the kind of power to be employed, Mr.
Stephenson was in constant communication with his son Robert, who made frequent visits to Liverpool
for the purpose of assisting his father in the preparation of his reports to the Board on the
subject.  They had also many conversations as to the best mode of increasing the powers and
perfecting the mechanism of the locomotive. These became more frequent and interesting, when
the prize was offered for the best locomotive, and the working plans of the engine which they
proposed to construct came to be settled.

One of the most important considerations in the new engine was the arrangement of the boiler
and the extension of its heating surface to enable steam enough to be raised rapidly and continuously,
for the purpose of maintaining high rates of speed,—the effect of high-pressure engines being
ascertained to depend mainly upon the quantity of steam which the boiler can generate, and
upon its degree of elasticity when produced.  The quantity of steam so generated, it will be
obvious, must depend chiefly upon the quantity of fuel consumed in the furnace, and by necessary
consequence, upon the high rate of temperature maintained there.

It will be remembered that in Stephenson’s first Killingworth engines he invented and applied
the ingenious method of stimulating combustion in the furnace, by throwing the waste steam
into the chimney after performing its office in the cylinders, thus accelerating the ascent
of the current of air, greatly increasing the draught, and consequently the temperature of
the fire.  This plan was adopted by him, as we have already seen, as early as 1815; and it
was so successful that he himself attributed to it the greater economy of the locomotive as
compared with horse power.  Hence the continuance of its use upon the Killingworth Railway.

Though the adoption of the steam-blast greatly quickened combustion and contributed to the
rapid production of high-pressure steam, the limited amount of heating surface presented to
the fire was still felt to be an obstacle to the complete success of the locomotive engine.
Mr. Stephenson endeavoured to overcome this by lengthening the boilers and increasing the surface
presented by the flue-tubes.  The “Lancashire Witch,” which he built for the Bolton and Leigh
Railway, and used in forming the Liverpool and Manchester Railway embankments, was constructed
with a double tube, each of which contained a fire and passed longitudinally through the boiler.
But this arrangement necessarily led to a considerable increase in the weight of the engine,
which amounted to about twelve tons; and as six tons was the limit allowed for engines admitted
to the Liverpool competition, it was clear that the time was come when the Killingworth locomotive
must undergo a further important modification.

For many years previous to this period, ingenious mechanics had been engaged in attempting
to solve the problem of the best and most economical boiler for the production of high-pressure
steam.  As early as 1803, Mr. Woolf patented a tubular boiler, which was extensively employed
at the Cornish mines, and was found greatly to facilitate the production of steam, by the extension
of the heating surface.  The ingenious Trevithick, in his patent of 1815, seems also to have
entertained the idea of employing a boiler constructed of “small perpendicular tubes,” with
the same object of increasing the heating surface.  These tubes were to be closed at the bottom,
and open into a common reservoir, from which they were to receive their water, and where the
steam of all the tubes was to be united.

About the same time George Stephenson was trying the effect of introducing small tubes in the
boilers of his locomotives, with the object of increasing their evaporative power.  Thus, in
1829, he sent to France two engines constructed at the Newcastle works for the Lyons and St.
Etienne Railway, in the boilers of which tubes were placed containing water.  The heating surface
was thus found to be materially increased; but the expedient was not successful, for the tubes,
becoming furred with deposit, shortly burned out and were removed.  It was then that M. Seguin,
the engineer of the railway, pursuing the same idea, adopted his plan of employing horizontal
tubes through which the heated air passed in streamlets.  Mr. Henry Booth, the secretary of
the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, without any knowledge of M. Seguin’s proceedings, next
devised his plan of a tubular boiler, which he brought under the notice of Mr. Stephenson,
who at once adopted it, and settled the mode in which the fire-box and tubes were to be mutually
arranged and connected. This plan was adopted in the construction of the celebrated “Rocket”
engine, the building of which was immediately proceeded with at the Newcastle works.

The principal circumstances connected with the construction of the “Rocket,” as described by
Robert Stephenson to the author, may be briefly stated.  The tubular principle was adopted
in a more complete manner than had yet been attempted.  Twenty-five copper tubes, each three
inches in diameter, extended from one end of the boiler to the other, the heated air passing
through them on its way to the chimney; and the tubes being surrounded by the water of the
boiler, it will be obvious that a large extension of the heating surface was thus effectually
secured.  The principal difficulty was in fitting the copper tubes within the boiler so as
to prevent leakage.  They were made by a Newcastle coppersmith, and soldered to brass screws
which were screwed into the boiler ends, standing out in great knobs.  When the tubes were
thus fitted, and the boiler was filled with water, hydraulic pressure was applied; but the
water squirted out at every joint, and the factory floor was soon flooded.  Robert went home
in despair; and in the first moment of grief, he wrote to his father that the whole thing was
a failure.  By return of post came a letter from his father, telling him that despair was not
to be thought of—that he must “try again;” and he suggested a mode of overcoming the difficulty,
which his son had already anticipated and proceeded to adopt.  It was, to bore clean holes
in the boiler ends, fit in the smooth copper tubes as tightly as possible, solder up, and then
raise the steam.  This plan succeeded perfectly, the expansion of the copper tubes completely
filling up all interstices, and producing a perfectly watertight boiler, capable of withstanding
extreme internal pressure.

The mode of employing the steam-blast for the purpose of increasing the draught in the chimney,
was also the subject of numerous experiments. When the engine was first tried, it was thought
that the blast in the chimney was not strong enough to keep up the intensity of the fire in
the furnace, so as to produce high-pressure steam in sufficient quantity. The expedient was
therefore adopted of hammering the copper tubes at the point at which they entered the chimney,
whereby the blast was considerably sharpened; and on a further trial it was found that the
draught was increased to such an extent as to enable abundance of steam to be raised.  The
rationale of the blast may be simply explained by referring to the effect of contracting the
pipe of a water-hose, by which the force of the jet of water is proportionately increased.
Widen the nozzle of the pipe, and the force is in like manner diminished.  So is it with the
steam-blast in the chimney of the locomotive.

Doubts were, however, expressed whether the greater draught secured by the contraction of the
blast-pipe was not counterbalanced in some degree by the negative pressure upon the piston.
A series of experiments was made with pipes of different diameters; the amount of vacuum produced
being determined by a glass tube open at both ends, which was fixed to the bottom of the smoke-box,
and descended into a bucket of water.  As the rarefaction took place, the water would of course
rise in the tube; and the height to which it rose above the surface of the water in the bucket
was made the measure of the amount of rarefaction.  These experiments proved that a considerable
increase of draught was obtained by the contraction of the orifice; accordingly, the two blast-pipes
opening from the cylinders into either side of the “Rocket” chimney, and turned up within it,
were contracted slightly below the area of the steam-ports; and before the engine left the
factory, the water rose in the glass tube three inches above the water in the bucket.

                         [Picture: The “Rocket”]

The other arrangements of the “Rocket” were briefly these:—the boiler was cylindrical with
flat ends, 6 feet in length, and 3 feet 4 inches in diameter.  The upper half of the boiler
was used as a reservoir for the steam, the lower half being filled with water.  Through the
lower part, 25 copper tubes of 3 inches diameter extended, which were open to the fire-box
at one end, and to the chimney at the other.  The fire-box, or furnace, 2 feet wide and 3 feet
high, was attached immediately behind the boiler, and was also surrounded with water.  The
cylinders of the engine were placed on each side of the boiler, in an oblique position, one
end being nearly level with the top of the boiler at its after end, and the other pointing
towards the centre of the foremost or driving pair of wheels, with which the connection was
directly made from the piston-rod, to a pin on the outside of the wheel.  The engine, together
with its load of water, weighed only 4¼ tons, and was supported on four wheels, not coupled.
The tender was four-wheeled, and similar in shape to a waggon,—the foremost part holding the
fuel, and the hind part a water-cask.

When the “Rocket” was finished, it was placed upon the Killingworth railway for the purpose
of experiment.  The new boiler arrangement was found perfectly successful.  The steam was raised
rapidly and continuously, and in a quantity which then appeared marvellous.  The same evening
Robert despatched a letter to his father at Liverpool, informing him, to his great joy, that
the “Rocket” was “all right,” and would be in complete working trim by the day of trial.  The
engine was shortly after sent by waggon to Carlisle, and thence shipped for Liverpool.

The time so much longed for by George Stephenson had now arrived, when the merit of the passenger
locomotive was to be put to a public test.  He had fought the battle for it until now almost
single-handed.  Engrossed by his daily labours and anxieties, and harassed by difficulties
and discouragements which would have crushed the spirit of a less resolute man, he had held
firmly to his purpose through good and through evil report.  The hostility which he experienced
from some of the directors opposed to the adoption of the locomotive, was the circumstance
that caused him the greatest grief of all; for where he had looked for encouragement, he found
only carping and opposition.  But his pluck never failed him; and now the “Rocket” was upon
the ground,—to prove, to use his own words, “whether he was a man of his word or not.”

Great interest was felt at Liverpool, as well as throughout the country, in the approaching
competition.  Engineers, scientific men, and mechanics, arrived from all quarters to witness
the novel display of mechanical ingenuity on which such great results depended.  The public
generally were no indifferent spectators either.  The inhabitants of Liverpool, Manchester,
and the adjacent towns felt that the successful issue of the experiment would confer upon them
individual benefits and local advantages almost incalculable, whilst populations at a distance
waited for the result with almost equal interest.

On the day appointed for the great competition of locomotives at Rainhill, the following engines
were entered for the prize:—

1.  Messrs. Braithwaite and Ericsson’s “Novelty.” {214}

2.  Mr. Timothy Hackworth’s “Sanspareil.”

3.  Messrs. R. Stephenson and Co.’s “Rocket.”

4.  Mr. Burstall’s “Perseverance.”

Another engine was entered by Mr. Brandreth of Liverpool—the “Cycloped,” weighing 3 tons, worked
by a horse in a frame, but it could not be admitted to the competition.  The above were the
only four exhibited, out of a considerable number of engines constructed in different parts
of the country in anticipation of this contest, many of which could not be satisfactorily completed
by the day of trial.

The ground on which the engines were to be tried was a level piece of railroad, about two miles
in length.  Each was required to make twenty trips, or equal to a journey of 70 miles, in the
course of the day; and the average rate of travelling was to be not under 10 miles an hour.
It was determined that, to avoid confusion, each engine should be tried separately, and on
different days.

              [Picture: Locomotive competition at Rainhill]

The day fixed for the competition was the 1st of October, but to allow sufficient time to get
the locomotives into good working order, the directors extended it to the 6th.  On the morning
of the 6th, the ground at Rainhill presented a lively appearance, and there was as much excitement
as if the St. Leger were about to be run.  Many thousand spectators looked on, amongst whom
were some of the first engineers and mechanicians of the day.  A stand was provided for the
ladies; the “beauty and fashion” of the neighbourhood were present, and the side of the railroad
was lined with carriages of all descriptions.

It was quite characteristic of the Stephensons, that, although their engine did not stand first
on the list for trial, it was the first that was ready; and it was accordingly ordered out
by the judges for an experimental trip.  Yet the “Rocket” was by no means “the favourite” with
either the judges or the spectators.  A majority of the judges was strongly predisposed in
favour of the “Novelty,” and nine-tenths of those present were against the “Rocket” because
of its appearance.  Nearly every person favoured some other engine, so that there was nothing
for the “Rocket” but the practical test.  The first trip which it made was quite successful.
It ran about 12 miles, without interruption, in about 53 minutes.

The “Novelty” was next called out.  It was a light engine, very compact in appearance, carrying
the water and fuel upon the same wheels as the engine.  The weight of the whole was only 3
tons and 1 hundredweight.  A peculiarity of this engine was that the air was driven or forced
through the fire by means of bellows.  The day being now far advanced, and some dispute having
arisen as to the method of assigning the proper load for the “Novelty,” no particular experiment
was made, further than that the engine traversed the line by way of exhibition, occasionally
moving at the rate of 24 miles an hour.  The “Sanspareil,” constructed by Mr. Timothy Hackworth,
was next exhibited; but no particular experiment was made with it on this day.

The contest was postponed until the following day, but before the judges arrived on the ground,
the bellows for creating the blast in the “Novelty” gave way, and it was found incapable of
going through its performance.  A defect was also detected in the boiler of the “Sanspareil;”
and some further time was allowed to get it repaired.  The large number of spectators who had
assembled to witness the contest were greatly disappointed at this postponement; but, to lessen
it, Stephenson again brought out the “Rocket,” and, attaching to it a coach containing thirty
persons, he ran them along the line at the rate of from 24 to 30 miles an hour, much to their
gratification and amazement.  Before separating, the judges ordered the engine to be in readiness
by eight o’clock on the following morning, to go through its definitive trial according to
the prescribed conditions.

On the morning of the 8th October, the “Rocket” was again ready for the contest.  The engine
was taken to the extremity of the stage, the fire-box was filled with coke, the fire lighted,
and the steam raised until it lifted the safety-valve loaded to a pressure of 50 pounds to
the square inch.  This proceeding occupied fifty-seven minutes.  The engine then started on
its journey, dragging after it about 13 tons weight in waggons, and made the first ten trips
backwards and forwards along the two miles of road, running the 35 miles, including stoppages,
in one hour and 48 minutes.  The second ten trips were in like manner performed in 2 hours
and 3 minutes.  The maximum velocity attained during the trial trip was 29 miles an hour, or
about three times the speed that one of the judges of the competition had declared to be the
limit of possibility. The average speed at which the whole of the journeys were performed was
15 miles an hour, or 5 miles beyond the rate specified in the conditions published by the Company.
The entire performance excited the greatest astonishment amongst the assembled spectators;
the directors felt confident that their enterprise was now on the eve of success; and George
Stephenson rejoiced to think that in spite of all false prophets and fickle counsellors, the
locomotive system was now safe.  When the “Rocket,” having performed all the conditions of
the contest, arrived at the “grand stand” at the close of its day’s successful run, Mr. Cropper—one
of the directors favourable to the fixed-engine system—lifted up his hands, and exclaimed,
“Now has George Stephenson at last delivered himself!”

Neither the “Novelty” nor the “Sanspareil” was ready for trial until the 10th, on the morning
of which day an advertisement appeared, stating that the former engine was to be tried on that
day, when it would perform more work than any engine upon the ground.  The weight of the carriages
attached to it was only about 7 tons.  The engine passed the first post in good style; but
in returning, the pipe from the forcing-pump burst and put an end to the trial.  The pipe was
afterwards repaired, and the engine made several trips by itself, in which it was said to have
gone at the rate of from 24 to 28 miles an hour.

The “Sanspareil” was not ready until the 13th; and when its boiler and tender were filled with
water, it was found to weigh 4 cwt. beyond the weight specified in the published conditions
as the limit of four-wheeled engines; nevertheless the judges allowed it to run on the same
footing as the other engines, to enable them to ascertain whether its merits entitled it to
favourable consideration.  It travelled at the average speed of about 14 miles an hour, with
its load attached; but at the eighth trip the cold-water pump got wrong, and the engine could
proceed no further.

It was determined to award the premium to the successful engine on the following day, the 14th,
on which occasion there was an unusual assemblage of spectators.  The owners of the “Novelty”
pleaded for another trial; and it was conceded.  But again it broke down.  The owner of the
“Sanspareil” also requested the opportunity for making another trial of his engine.  But the
judges had now had enough of failures; and they declined, on the ground that not only was the
engine above the stipulated weight, but that it was constructed on a plan which they could
not recommend for adoption by the directors of the Company.  One of the principal practical
objections to this locomotive was the enormous quantity of coke consumed or wasted by it—about
692 lbs. per hour when travelling—caused by the sharpness of the steam-blast in the chimney,
which blew a large proportion of the burning coke into the air.

The “Perseverance” was found unable to move at more than five or six miles an hour; and it
was withdrawn from the contest at an early period. The “Rocket” was thus the only engine that
had performed, and more than performed, all the stipulated conditions; and its owners were
declared to be fully entitled to the prize of £500, which was awarded to the Messrs. Stephenson
and Booth accordingly.  And further, to show that the engine had been working quite within
its powers, Mr. Stephenson ordered it to be brought upon the ground and detached from all incumbrances,
when, in making two trips, it was found to travel at the astonishing rate of 35 miles an hour.

The “Rocket” had thus eclipsed the performances of all locomotive engines that had yet been
constructed, and outstripped even the sanguine expectations of its constructors.  It satisfactorily
answered the report of Messrs. Walker and Rastrick; and established the efficiency of the locomotive
for working the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, and indeed all future railways.  The “Rocket”
showed that a new power had been born into the world, full of activity and strength, with boundless
capability of work.  It was the simple but admirable contrivance of the steam-blast, and its
combination with the multitubular boiler, that at once gave the locomotive a vigorous life,
and secured the triumph of the railway system. {219}  It has been well observed, that this
wonderful ability to increase and multiply its powers of performance with the emergency that
demands them, has made this giant engine the noblest creation of human wit, the very lion among
machines.  The success of the Rainhill experiment, as judged by the public, may be inferred
from the fact that the shares of the Company immediately rose ten per cent., and nothing more
was heard of the proposed twenty-one fixed engines, engine-houses, ropes, etc.  All this cumbersome
apparatus was thenceforward effectually disposed of.

Very different now was the tone of those directors who had distinguished themselves by the
persistency of their opposition to Mr. Stephenson’s plans.  Coolness gave way to eulogy, and
hostility to unbounded offers of friendship—after the manner of many men who run to the help
of the strong.  Deeply though the engineer had felt aggrieved by the conduct pursued towards
him during this eventful struggle, by some from whom forbearance was to have been expected,
he never entertained towards them in after life any angry feelings; on the contrary, he forgave
all.  But though the directors afterwards passed unanimous resolutions eulogising “the great
skill and unwearied energy” of their engineer, he himself, when speaking confidentially to
those with whom he was most intimate, could not help pointing out the difference between his
“foul-weather and fair-weather friends.”  Mr. Gooch says of him that though naturally most
cheerful and kind-hearted in his disposition, the anxiety and pressure which weighed upon his
mind during the construction of the railway, had the effect of making him occasionally impatient
and irritable, like a spirited horse touched by the spur; though his original good-nature from
time to time shone through it all.  When the line had been brought to a successful completion,
a very marked change in him became visible.  The irritability passed away, and when difficulties
and vexations arose they were treated by him as matters of course, and with perfect composure
and cheerfulness.

The directors of the Railway now began to see daylight; and they derived encouragement from
the skilful manner in which their engineer had overcome the principal difficulties of the undertaking.
He had formed a solid road over Chat Moss, and thus achieved one “impossibility;” and he had
constructed a locomotive that could run at a speed of 30 miles an hour, thus vanquishing a
still more formidable difficulty.

A single line of way was completed over Chat Moss by the 1st of January, 1830; and on that
day, the “Rocket” with a carriage full of directors, engineers, and their friends, passed along
the greater part of the road between Liverpool and Manchester.  Mr. Stephenson continued to
direct his close attention to the improvement of the details of the locomotive, every successive
trial of which proved more satisfactory.  In this department he had the benefit of the able
and unremitting assistance of his son, who, in the workshops at Newcastle, directly superintended
the construction of the new engines required for the public working of the railway.  He did
not by any means rest satisfied with the success, decided though it was, which had been achieved
by the “Rocket.”  He regarded it but in the light of a successful experiment; and every succeeding
engine placed upon the railway exhibited some improvement on its predecessors.  The arrangement
of the parts, and the weight and proportions of the engines, were altered, as the experience
of each successive day, or week, or month, suggested; and it was soon found that the performances
of the “Rocket” on the day of trial had been greatly within the powers of the locomotive.

The first entire trip between Liverpool and Manchester was performed on the 14th of June, 1830,
on the occasion of a Board meeting being held at the latter town.  The train was on this occasion
drawn by the “Arrow,” one of the new locomotives, in which the most recent improvements had
been adopted.  Mr. Stephenson himself drove the engine, and Captain Scoresby, the circumpolar
navigator, stood beside him on the foot-plate, and minuted the speed of the train.  A great
concourse of people assembled at both termini, as well as along the line, to witness the novel
spectacle of a train of carriages dragged by an engine at a speed of 17 miles an hour.  On
the return journey to Liverpool in the evening, the “Arrow” crossed Chat Moss at a speed of
nearly 27 miles an hour, reaching its destination in about an hour and a half.

In the mean time Mr. Stephenson and his assistants were diligently occupied in making the necessary
preliminary arrangements for the conduct of the traffic against the time when the line should
be ready for opening.  The experiments made with the object of carrying on the passenger traffic
at quick velocities were of an especially harassing and anxious character.  Every week, for
nearly three months before the opening, trial trips were made to Newton and back, generally
with two or three trains following each other, and carrying altogether from 200 to 300 persons.
These trips were usually made on Saturday afternoons, when the works could be more conveniently
stopped and the line cleared.  In these experiments Mr. Stephenson had the able assistance
of Mr. Henry Booth, the secretary of the Company, who contrived many of the arrangements in
the rolling stock, not the least valuable of which was his invention of the coupling screw,
still in use on all passenger railways.

At length the line was finished, and ready for the public ceremony of the opening, which took
place on the 15th September, 1830, and attracted a vast number of spectators.  The completion
of the railway was justly regarded as an important national event, and the opening was celebrated
accordingly.  The Duke of Wellington, then Prime Minister, Sir Robert Peel, and Mr. Huskisson,
one of the members for Liverpool, were among the number of distinguished public personages present.

Eight locomotive engines, constructed at the Stephenson works, had been delivered and placed
upon the line, the whole of which had been tried and tested weeks before, with perfect success.
The several trains of carriages accommodated in all about six hundred persons.  The procession
was cheered in its progress by thousands of spectators—through the deep ravine of Olive Mount;
up the Sutton incline; over the great Sankey viaduct, beneath which a great multitude of persons
had assembled,—carriages filling the narrow lanes, and barges crowding the river; the people
below gazing with wonder and admiration at the trains which sped along the line, far above
their heads, at the rate of some 24 miles an hour.

At Parkside, about 17 miles from Liverpool, the engines stopped to take in water.  Here a deplorable
accident occurred to one of the illustrious visitors, which threw a deep shadow over the subsequent
proceedings of the day.  The “Northumbrian” engine, with the carriage containing the Duke of
Wellington, was drawn up on one line, in order that the whole of the trains on the other line
might pass in review before him and his party.  Mr. Huskisson had alighted from the carriage,
and was standing on the opposite road, along which the “Rocket” was observed rapidly coming
up.  At this moment the Duke of Wellington, between whom and Mr. Huskisson some coolness had
existed, made a sign of recognition, and held out his hand.  A hurried but friendly grasp was
given; and before it was loosened there was a general cry from the bystanders of “Get in, get
in!” Flurried and confused, Mr. Huskisson endeavoured to get round the open door of the carriage,
which projected over the opposite rail; but in so doing he was struck down by the “Rocket,”
and falling with his leg doubled across the rail, the limb was instantly crushed.  His first
words, on being raised, were, “I have met my death,” which unhappily proved true, for he expired
that same evening in the parsonage of Eccles. It was cited at the time as a remarkable fact,
that the “Northumbrian” engine, driven by George Stephenson himself, conveyed the wounded body
of the unfortunate gentleman a distance of about 15 miles in 25 minutes, or at the rate of
36 miles an hour.  This incredible speed burst upon the world with the effect of a new and
unlooked-for phenomenon.

The accident threw a gloom over the rest of the day’s proceedings.  The Duke of Wellington
and Sir Robert Peel expressed a wish that the procession should return to Liverpool.  It was,
however, represented to them that a vast concourse of people had assembled at Manchester to
witness the arrival of the trains; that report would exaggerate the mischief, if they did not
complete the journey; and that a false panic on that day might seriously affect future railway
travelling and the value of the Company’s property.  The party consented accordingly to proceed
to Manchester, but on the understanding that they should return as soon as possible, and refrain
from further festivity.

