In an unknown language the words are tyrannically prominent. They stop us but say nothing.
To be rescued from this fetter of words we must rid ourselves of the avidyā, our ignorance,
and then our mind will find its freedom in the inner idea.  But it would be foolish to say
that our ignorance of the language can be dispelled only by the destruction of the words. 
No, when the perfect knowledge comes, every word remains in its place, only they do not bind
us to themselves, but let us pass through them and lead us to the idea which is emancipation.

Thus it is only avidyā which makes the self our fetter by making us think that it is an end
in itself, and by preventing our seeing that it contains the idea that transcends its limits.
That is why the wise man comes and says, "Set yourselves free from the avidyā; know your true
soul and be saved from the grasp of the self which imprisons you."

We gain our freedom when we attain our truest nature.  The man who is an artist finds his artistic
freedom when he finds his ideal of art.  Then is he freed from laborious attempts at imitation,
from the goadings of popular approbation.  It is the function of religion not to destroy our
nature but to fulfil it.

The Sanskrit word dharma which is usually translated into English as religion has a deeper
meaning in our language. Dharma is the innermost nature, the essence, the implicit truth, of
all things.  Dharma is the ultimate purpose that is working in our self.  When any wrong is
done we say that dharma is violated, meaning that the lie has been given to our true nature.

But this dharma, which is the truth in us, is not apparent, because it is inherent.  So much
so, that it has been held that sinfulness is the nature of man, and only by the special grace
of God can a particular person be saved.  This is like saying that the nature of the seed is
to remain enfolded within its shell, and it is only by some special miracle that it can be
grown into a tree.  But do we not know that the appearance of the seed contradicts its true
nature?  When you submit it to chemical analysis you may find in it carbon and proteid and
a good many other things, but not the idea of a branching tree. Only when the tree begins to
take shape do you come to see its dharma, and then you can affirm without doubt that the seed
which has been wasted and allowed to rot in the ground has been thwarted in its dharma, in
the fulfilment of its true nature. In the history of humanity we have known the living seed
in us to sprout.  We have seen the great purpose in us taking shape in the lives of our greatest
men, and have felt certain that though there are numerous individual lives that seem ineffectual,
still it is not their dharma to remain barren; but it is for them to burst their cover and
transform themselves into a vigorous spiritual shoot, growing up into the air and light, and
branching out in all directions.

The freedom of the seed is in the attainment of its dharma, its nature and destiny of becoming
a tree; it is the non-accomplishment which is its prison.  The sacrifice by which a thing attains
its fulfilment is not a sacrifice which ends in death; it is the casting-off of bonds which
wins freedom.

