When Columbus weighed anchor on the 12th of November he took with him six captive Indians.
It was his intention to go in search of the island of Babeque, which the Indians alleged lay
about thirty leagues to the east-south-east, and where, they said, the people gathered gold
out of the sand with candles at night, and afterwards made bars of it with a hammer. They told
him this by signs; and we have only one more instance of the Admiral's facility in interpreting
signs in favour of his own beliefs. It is only a few days later that in the same Journal he
says, "The people of these lands do not understand me, nor do I nor any other person I have
with me understand them; and these Indians I am taking with me, many times understand things
contrary to what they are."  It was a fault at any rate not exclusively possessed by the Indians,
who were doubtless made the subject of many philological experiments on the part of the interpreter;
all that they seemed to have learned at this time were certain religious gestures, such as
making the Sign of the Cross, which they did continually, greatly to the edification of the crew.

In order to keep these six natives in a good temper Columbus kidnapped "seven women, large
and small, and three children," in order, he alleged, that the men might conduct themselves
better in Spain because of having their "wives" with them; although whether these assorted
women were indeed the wives of the kidnapped natives must at the best be a doubtful matter.
The three children, fortunately, had their father and mother with them; but that was only because
the father, having seen his wife and children kidnapped, came and offered to go with them of
his own accord. This taking of the women raises a question which must be in the mind of any
one who studies this extraordinary voyage--the question of the treatment of native women by
the Spaniards.  Columbus is entirely silent on the subject; but taking into account the nature
of the Spanish rabble that formed his company, and his own views as to the right which he had
to possess the persons and goods of the native inhabitants, I am afraid that there can be very
little doubt that in this matter there is a good reason, for his silence.  So far as Columbus
himself was concerned, it is probable that he was innocent enough; he was not a sensualist
by nature, and he was far too much interested and absorbed in the principal objects of his
expedition, and had too great a sense of his own personal dignity, to have indulged in excesses
that would, thus sanctioned by him, have produced a very disastrous effect on the somewhat
rickety discipline of his crew.  He was too wise a master, however, to forbid anything that
it was not in his power to prevent; and it is probable that he shut his eyes to much that,
if he did not tolerate it, he at any rate regarded as a matter of no very great importance.
His crew had by this time learned to know their commander well enough not to commit under his
eyes offences for which he would have been sure to punish them.

