I think I have discovered the way to keep peas from the birds. I tried the scarecrow plan,
in a way which I thought would outwit the shrewdest bird. The brain of the bird is not large;
but it is all concentrated on one object, and that is the attempt to elude the devices of modern
civilization which injure his chances of food. I knew that, if I put up a complete stuffed
man, the bird would detect the imitation at once: the perfection of the thing would show him
that it was a trick. People always overdo the matter when they attempt deception. I therefore
hung some loose garments, of a bright color, upon a rake-head, and set them up among the vines.
The supposition was, that the bird would think there was an effort to trap him, that there
was a man behind, holding up these garments, and would sing, as he kept at a distance, "You
can't catch me with any such double device." The bird would know, or think he knew, that I
would not hang up such a scare, in the expectation that it would pass for a man, and deceive
a bird; and he would therefore look for a deeper plot. I expected to outwit the bird by a duplicity
that was simplicity itself I may have over-calculated the sagacity and reasoning power of the
bird. At any rate, I did over-calculate the amount of peas I should gather.

But my game was only half played. In another part of the garden were other peas, growing and
blowing. To-these I took good care not to attract the attention of the bird by any scarecrow
whatever! I left the old scarecrow conspicuously flaunting above the old vines; and by this
means I hope to keep the attention of the birds confined to that side of the garden. I am convinced
that this is the true use of a scarecrow: it is a lure, and not a warning. If you wish to save
men from any particular vice, set up a tremendous cry of warning about some other; and they
will all give their special efforts to the one to which attention is called. This profound
truth is about the only thing I have yet realized out of my pea-vines.

However, the garden does begin to yield. I know of nothing that makes one feel more complacent,
in these July days, than to have his vegetables from his own garden. What an effect it has
on the market-man and the butcher! It is a kind of declaration of independence. The market-man
shows me his peas and beets and tomatoes, and supposes he shall send me out some with the meat. Among those
letters, most insignificant things or reveal Ferpierre already known, there were some that the Prince
had written to his friend in the preliminaries of his love. Were such passionate and earnest
that it almost gave off a whiff of burning them: words sighing, singing, burning with flames.

"Light
of the world, the life of the soul, a smile of grace, port of salvation
will you hear what living ever heard?

Has never known anyone who I am. I have not had a mother, I had no sister. I do not regret it,
on the contrary, I am proud, because now I can reveal to my heart to you alone ... "

And he confessed to her, candidly, the said it was a sick child, a
madman needed care and love, that its apparent value hid a childhood
fear, that his pride was humble, that loved to hate, that when shed
tears of compassion, the smile of derision contained them, was going
from one extreme to another with painful anxiety, eagerly tormenting,
with the nostalgic need an unwavering serenity.

"Your love will be my salvation, peace, the port, the promised land, paradise lost and found
again. Love me as I need to be loved, as he loves children and animals, a love that is all forgiveness,
compassion, comfort, relief and relief ... "

If the Countess d'Arda had not succeeded in that work was it his fault? Recalling the day of
the dead and the same confession of the Prince, should agree that
the guilty Ferpierre but the Countess was not the same Zakunine.

Without doubt, if I had known earlier, when evil had not yet cast such deep root in him, would
have healed, but the meeting had occurred later, and if the Prince had forgotten for a short time
their inveterate habits of life and thought, soon had returned to them.
 But when I saw Polly seated at her side of the table, presiding
over the new and susceptible vegetables, flanked by the squash and the beans, and smiling upon
the green corn and the new potatoes, as cool as the cucumbers which lay sliced in ice before
her, and when she began to dispense the fresh dishes, I saw at once that the day of my destiny
was over. You would have thought that she owned all the vegetables, and had raised them all
from their earliest years. Such quiet, vegetable airs! Such gracious appropriation! At length
I said,-- "Polly, do you know who planted that squash, or those squashes?"

"James, I suppose."

"Well, yes, perhaps James did plant them, to a certain extent. But who hoed them?"

"We did."

"We did!" I said, in the most sarcastic manner.

And I suppose we put on the sackcloth and ashes, when the striped bug came at four o'clock
A.M., and we watched the tender leaves, and watered night and morning the feeble plants. "I
tell you, Polly," said I, uncorking the Bordeaux raspberry vinegar, "there is not a pea here
that does not represent a drop of moisture wrung from my brow, not a beet that does not stand
for a back-ache, not a squash that has not caused me untold anxiety; and I did hope--but I
will say no more."

Observation.--In this sort of family discussion, "I will say no more" is the most effective
thing you can close up with.

I am not an alarmist. I hope I am as cool as anybody this hot summer. But I am quite ready
to say to Polly, or any other woman, "You can have the ballot; only leave me the vegetables,
or, what is more important, the consciousness of power in vegetables." I see how it is. Woman
is now supreme in the house. She already stretches out her hand to grasp the garden. She will
gradually control everything. Woman is one of the ablest and most cunning creatures who have
ever mingled in human affairs. I understand those women who say they don't want the ballot.
They purpose to hold the real power while we go through the mockery of making laws. They want
the power without the responsibility. (Suppose my squash had not come up, or my beans--as they
threatened at one time--had gone the wrong way: where would I have been?) We are to be held
to all the responsibilities. Woman takes the lead in all the departments, leaving us politics
only. And what is politics? Let me raise the vegetables of a nation, says Polly, and I care
not who makes its politics. Here I sat at the table, armed with the ballot, but really powerless
among my own vegetables. While we are being amused by the ballot, woman is quietly taking things
into her own hands.

ELEVENTH WEEK

Perhaps, after all, it is not what you get out of a garden, but what you put into it, that
is the most remunerative. What is a man? A question frequently asked, and never, so far as
I know, satisfactorily answered. He commonly spends his seventy years, if so many are given
him, in getting ready to enjoy himself. How many hours, how many minutes, does one get of that
pure content which is happiness? I do not mean laziness, which is always discontent; but that
serene enjoyment, in which all the natural senses have easy play, and the unnatural ones have
a holiday. There is probably nothing that has such a tranquilizing effect, and leads into such
content as gardening. By gardening, I do not mean that insane desire to raise vegetables which
some have; but the philosophical occupation of contact with the earth, and companionship with
gently growing things and patient processes; that exercise which soothes the spirit, and develops
the deltoid muscles.

In half an hour I can hoe myself right away from this world, as we commonly see it, into a
large place, where there are no obstacles. He had gone there to investigate a process and while attending a drama. The
sight of his usual passion, but the accident put him in that moment in the presence of a soul
with which he joined the memories of youth suddenly awakened. The man who was there with him was not
just the old fellow with whom at one time had had frequent conversations, was also one of the brightest
wits of his time. The nature of this genius had inspired no sympathy, and though he had not discovered,
and had just discovered how little the man resembled the writer, the same rivalry intellectual
mediated between disturbed him, as his ordinary substraía indifference the necessary composure.
And before that pain felt moved when he was just need all the lucidity of his mind to study
the indictment.

But once the young man was overwhelmed by the suspicion of having been himself the cause involuntary
suicide of the countess was necessary not only to make him believe that suspect was not implausible,
but let the torment and remorse. No But the judge, in his heart, yet did not want to attribute
too much value. As missing lacked physical evidence, it was not possible to form an opinion, but
in simple inductions, and between the candle plant assertion, that the countess had not been given
the death when light of a new affection shone his dark life, and suspicion to the contrary,
that the same failure to obey this feeling would have revealed the misery of his incurable existence
which of the two deserves more credit?

Accustomed to exercising its power of analysis in very dubious and obscure, the judge he had
been still unclear, but, however, instead of arguing among themselves the various hypotheses, doing
everything possible to distract, to prevent one of them, against their will, take roots and disturb
the accurate perception of truth. Ferpierre knew that vegetation of ideas is much faster than
that of certain plants that range in short time around him a forest of leafy branches, and
that the opinion, though his life seems dependent of the will, and stop under the influence of
the contrary opinion, it is nevertheless tenacissima and sometimes resistant to greater efforts.

Thus,
candle plant, which seemed so confused and overwhelmed, soon rose
to the building of living reaction.

- No !...-- said abruptly, raising
his head and shaking it with a gesture of protest .-- No! ... No way!

... That can not be! ...

If I had died for me, I would not have said, I would have left a word, the word of pain, a greeting,
a goodbye?

... Yesterday I spoke with her, and nothing, nothing could make me suspect I had the idea of
​​death, on the contrary! ... No! - Repeated in a voice that was becoming stronger as their belief
was strengthened: - No! She has not killed! It been murdered!

You do not believe he does not know, because he has not met!

... You need to touch hands to believe, but I'm sure we have committed a heinous crime today.
 It is within the capacity of even the humblest
of us to attain this.

And, speaking of the philosophical temper, there is no class of men whose society is more to
be desired for this quality than that of plumbers. They are the most agreeable men I know;
and the boys in the business begin to be agreeable very early. I suspect the secret of it is,
that they are agreeable by the hour. In the driest days, my fountain became disabled: the pipe
was stopped up. A couple of plumbers, with the implements of their craft, came out to view
the situation. There was a good deal of difference of opinion about where the stoppage was.
I found the plumbers perfectly willing to sit down and talk about it,--talk by the hour. Some
of their guesses and remarks were exceedingly ingenious; and their general observations on
other subjects were excellent in their way, and could hardly have been better if they had been
made by the job. The work dragged a little, as it is apt to do by the hour. The plumbers had
occasion to make me several visits. Sometimes they would find, upon arrival, that they had
forgotten some indispensable tool; and one would go back to the shop, a mile and a half, after
it; and his comrade would await his return with the most exemplary patience, and sit down and
talk,--always by the hour. I do not know but it is a habit to have something wanted at the
shop. They seemed to me very good workmen, and always willing to stop and talk about the job,
or anything else, when I went near them. Nor had they any of that impetuous hurry that is said
to be the bane of our American civilization. To their credit be it said, that I never observed
anything of it in them. They can afford to wait. Two of them will sometimes wait nearly half
a day while a comrade goes for a tool. They are patient and philosophical. It is a great pleasure
to meet such men. One only wishes there was some work he could do for them by the hour. There
ought to be reciprocity. I think they have very nearly solved the problem of Life: it is to
work for other people, never for yourself, and get your pay by the hour. You then have no anxiety,
and little work. If you do things by the job, you are perpetually driven: the hours are scourges.
If you work by the hour, you gently sail on the stream of Time, which is always bearing you
on to the haven of Pay, whether you make any effort, or not. Working by the hour tends to make
one moral. A plumber working by the job, trying to unscrew a rusty, refractory nut, in a cramped
position, where the tongs continually slipped off, would swear; but I never heard one of them
swear, or exhibit the least impatience at such a vexation, working by the hour. Nothing can
move a man who is paid by the hour. How sweet the flight of time seems to his calm mind!

TWELFTH WEEK

Mr. Horace Greeley, the introduction of whose name confers an honor upon this page (although
I ought to say that it is used entirely without his consent), is my sole authority in agriculture.
In politics I do not dare to follow him; but in agriculture he is irresistible. When, therefore,
I find him advising Western farmers not to hill up their corn, I think that his advice must
be political. You must hill up your corn. People always have hilled up their corn. It would
take a constitutional amendment to change the practice, that has pertained ever since maize
was raised. "It will stand the drought better," says Mr. Greeley, "if the ground is left level."
I have corn in my garden, ten and twelve feet high, strong and lusty, standing the drought
like a grenadier; and it is hilled. In advising this radical change, Mr. Greeley evidently
has a political purpose. He might just as well say that you should not hill beans, when everybody
knows that a "hill of beans" is one of the most expressive symbols of disparagement. When I
become too lazy to hill my corn, I, too, shall go into politics.

I am satisfied that it is useless to try to cultivate "pusley." I set a little of it one side,
and gave it some extra care. It did not thrive as well as that which I was fighting. The fact
is, there is a spirit of moral perversity in the plant, which makes it grow the more, the more
it is interfered with. I am satisfied of that. I doubt if any one has raised more "pusley"
this year than I have; and my warfare with it has been continual. Neither of us has slept much.
If you combat it, it will grow, to use an expression that will be understood by many, like
the devil. I have a neighbor, a good Christian man, benevolent, and a person of good judgment.
He planted next to me an acre of turnips recently. A few days after, he went to look at his
crop; and he found the entire ground covered with a thick and luxurious carpet of "pusley,"
with a turnip-top worked in here and there as an ornament. I have seldom seen so thrifty a
field. I advised my neighbor next time to sow "pusley" and then he might get a few turnips.
I wish there was more demand in our city markets for "pusley" as a salad. I can recommend it.

It does not take a great man to soon discover that, in raising anything, the greater part of
the plants goes into stalk and leaf, and the fruit is a most inconsiderable portion. I plant
and hoe a hill of corn: it grows green and stout, and waves its broad leaves high in the air,
and is months in perfecting itself, and then yields us not enough for a dinner. It grows because
it delights to do so,--to take the juices out of my ground, to absorb my fertilizers, to wax
luxuriant, and disport itself in the summer air, and with very little thought of making any
return to me. I might go all through my garden and fruit trees with a similar result. I have
heard of places where there was very little land to the acre. It is universally true that there
is a great deal of vegetable show and fuss for the result produced. I do not complain of this.
One cannot expect vegetables to be better than men: and they make a great deal of ostentatious
splurge; and many of them come to no result at last. Usually, the more show of leaf and wood,
the less fruit. This melancholy reflection is thrown in here in order to make dog-days seem
cheerful in comparison.

One of the minor pleasures of life is that of controlling vegetable activity and aggressions
with the pruning-knife. Vigorous and rapid growth is, however, a necessity to the sport. The longer the time spent in silence and being motionless, the
less difference it makes to everyone else: The boredom of prison aroused his anger. He asked
could he speak to a lawyer, and it was allowed, he had been filled with the harsh words of
justice. Several times a day, he asked the guards about the decision about his release, and he received
negative responses. Hearing this, he wrinkled his brow and shook
with anger. If I had a horse with a tail
not able to sit up, I should feed the horse, and curry him into good spirits, and let him set
up his own tail. When I see a poor, spiritless horse going by with an artificially set-up tail,
it is only a signal of distress. I desire to be surrounded only by healthy, vigorous plants
and trees, which require constant cutting-in and management. Merely to cut away dead branches
is like perpetual attendance at a funeral, and puts one in low spirits. I want to have a garden
and orchard rise up and meet me every morning, with the request to "lay on, Macduff." I respect
old age; but an old currant-bush, hoary with mossy bark, is a melancholy spectacle.

