 I will content myself with giving one last example that is really too
curious to be passed over in silence.

It so happens that in the Anglo-Saxon epic poem of Beowulf, one of the most remarkable and
precious of our early poems, there is a splendid and graphic description of a lonely mere,
such as would have delighted the heart of Edgar Allan Poe, the author of Ulalume. In Professor
Earle's prose translation of this passage, given in his Deeds of Beowulf, at p. 44, is a description
of two mysterious monsters, of whom it is said that "they inhabit unvisited land, wolf-crags,
windy bluffs, the dread fen-track, where the mountain waterfall amid precipitous gloom vanisheth
beneath--flood under earth. Not far hence it is, reckoning by miles, that the Mere standeth,
and over it hang rimy groves; a wood with clenched roots overshrouds the water." The word to
be noted here is the word rimy, i.e. covered with rime or hoar-frost. The original Anglo-Saxon
text has the form hrinde, the meaning of which was long doubtful. Grein, the great German scholar,
writing in 1864, acknowledged that he did not know what was intended, and it was not till 1880
that light was first thrown upon the passage. In that year Dr Morris edited, for the first
time, some Anglo-Saxon homilies (commonly known as the Blickling Homilies, because the MS.
is in the library of Blickling Hall, Norfolk); and he called attention to a passage (at p.
209) where the homilist was obviously referring to the lonely mere of the old poem, in which
its overhanging groves were described as being hrimige, which is nothing but the true old spelling
of rimy. He naturally concluded that the word hrinde (in the MS. of Beowulf) was miswritten,
and that the scribe had inadvertently put down hrinde instead of hrimge, which is a legitimate
contraction of hrimige. Many scholars accepted this solution; but a further light was yet to
come, viz. in 1904. In that year, Dr Joseph Wright printed the fifth volume of the English
Dialect Dictionary, showing that in the dialects of Scotland, Northumberland, Durham, and Yorkshire,
the word for "hoarfrost" is not rime, but rind, with a derived adjective rindy, which has the
same sense as rimy. At the same time, he called attention yet once more to the passage in Beowulf.
It is established, accordingly, that the suspected mistake in the MS. is no mistake at all;
that the form hrinde is correct, being a contraction of hrindge or hrindige, plural of the
adjective hrindig, which is preserved in our dialects, in the form rindy, to this very day.
In direct contradiction of a common popular error that regards our dialectal forms as being,
for the most part, "corrupt," it will be found by experience that they are remarkably conservative
and antique.

CHAPTER II

DIALECTS IN EARLY TIMES

The history of our dialects in the earliest periods of which we have any record is necessarily
somewhat obscure, owing to the scarcity of the documents that have come down to us. The earliest
of these have been carefully collected and printed in one volume by Dr Sweet, entitled The
Oldest English Texts, edited for the Early English Text Society in 1885. Here we already find
the existence of no less than four dialects, which have been called by the names of Northumbrian,
Mercian, Wessex (or Anglo-Saxon), and Kentish. These correspond, respectively, though not quite
exactly, to what we may roughly call Northern, Midland, Southern, and Kentish. Whether the
limits of these dialects were always the same from the earliest times, we cannot tell; probably
not, when the unsettled state of the country is considered, in the days when repeated invasions
of the Danes and Norsemen necessitated constant efforts to repel them. It is therefore sufficient
to define the areas covered by these dialects in quite a rough way. We may regard the Northumbrian
or Northern as the dialect or group of dialects spoken to the north of the river Humber, as
the name implies; the Wessex or Southern, as the dialect or group of dialects spoken to the
south of the river Thames; the Kentish as being peculiar to Kent; and the Mercian as in use
in the Midland districts, chiefly to the south of the Humber and to the north of the Thames.
The modern limits are somewhat different, but the above division of the three chief dialects
(excluding Kentish) into Northern, Midland, and Southern is sufficient for taking a broad general
view of the language in the days before the Norman Conquest.

The investigation of the differences of dialect in our early documents only dates from 1885,
owing to the previous impossibility of obtaining access to these oldest texts. Before that
date, it so happened that nearly all the manuscripts that had been printed or examined were
in one and the same dialect, viz. the Southern (or Wessex). The language employed in these
was (somewhat unhappily) named "Anglo-Saxon"; and the very natural mistake was made of supposing
that this "Anglo-Saxon" was the sole language (or dialect) which served for all the "Angles"
and "Saxons" to be found in the "land of the Angles" or England. This is the reason why it
is desirable to give the more general name of "Old English" to the oldest forms of our language,
because this term can be employed collectively, so as to include Northumbrian, Mercian, "Anglo-Saxon"
and Kentish under one designation. The name "Anglo-Saxon" was certainly rather inappropriate,
as the speakers of it were mostly Saxons and not Angles at all; which leads up to the paradox
that they did not speak "English"; for that, in the extreme literal sense, was the language
of the Angles only! But now that the true relationship of the old dialects is known, it is
not uncommon for scholars to speak of the Wessex dialect as "Saxon," and of the Northumbrian
and Mercian dialects as "Anglian"; for the latter are found to have some features in common
that differ sharply from those found in "Saxon."

Manuscripts in the Southern dialect are fairly abundant, and contain poems, homilies, land-charters,
laws, wills, translations of Latin treatises, glossaries, etc.; so that there is considerable
variety. One of the most precious documents is the history known as the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle,
which was continued even after the Conquest till the year 1154, when the death and burial of
King Stephen were duly recorded.

But specimens of the oldest forms of the Northern and Midland dialects are, on the other hand,
very much fewer in number than students of our language desire, and are consequently deserving
of special mention. They are duly enumerated in the chapters below, which discuss these dialects
separately.

Having thus sketched out the broad divisions into which our dialects may be distributed, I
shall proceed to enter upon a particular discussion of each group, beginning with the Northern
or Northumbrian.

CHAPTER III

THE DIALECTS OF NORTHUMBRIA; TILL A.D. 1000

In Professor Earle's excellent manual on Anglo-Saxon Literature, chapter V is entirely occupied
with "the Anglian Period," and begins thus:--"While Canterbury was so important a seminary
of learning, there was, in the Anglian region of Northumbria, a development of religious and
intellectual life which makes it natural to regard the whole brilliant period from the later
seventh to the early ninth century as the Anglian Period.... Anglia became for a century the
light-spot of European history; and we here recognise the first great stage in the revival
of learning, and the first movement towards the establishment of public order in things temporal
and spiritual."

