THE NEW MACHIAVELLI

by H. G. Wells

CONTENTS

     BOOK THE FIRST

     THE MAKING OF A MAN

     I.   CONCERNING A BOOK THAT WAS NEVER WRITTEN
     II.  BROMSTEAD AND MY FATHER
     III. SCHOLASTIC
     IV.  ADOLESCENCE

     BOOK THE SECOND

     MARGARET

     I.   MARGARET IN STAFFORDSHIRE
     II.  MARGARET IN LONDON
     III. MARGARET IN VENICE
     IV.  THE HOUSE IN WESTMINSTER

     BOOK THE THIRD

     THE HEART OF POLITICS

     I.   THE RIDDLE FOR THE STATESMAN
     II.  SEEKING ASSOCIATES
     III. SECESSION
     IV.  THE BESETTING OF SEX

     BOOK THE FOURTH

     ISABEL

     I.   LOVE AND SUCCESS
     II.  THE IMPOSSIBLE POSITION
     III. THE BREAKING POINT

BOOK THE FIRST: THE MAKING OF A MAN

CHAPTER THE FIRST ~~ CONCERNING A BOOK THAT WAS NEVER WRITTEN

1

Since I came to this place I have been very restless, wasting my energies in the futile beginning
of ill-conceived books. One does not settle down very readily at two and forty to a new way
of living, and I have found myself with the teeming interests of the life I have abandoned
still buzzing like a swarm of homeless bees in my head. My mind has been full of confused protests
and justifications. In any case I should have found difficulties enough in expressing the complex
thing I have to tell, but it has added greatly to my trouble that I have a great analogue,
that a certain Niccolo Machiavelli chanced to fall out of politics at very much the age I have
reached, and wrote a book to engage the restlessness of his mind, very much as I have wanted
to do. He wrote about the relation of the great constructive spirit in politics to individual
character and weaknesses, and so far his achievement lies like a deep rut in the road of my
intention. It has taken me far astray. It is a matter of many weeks now--diversified indeed
by some long drives into the mountains behind us and a memorable sail to Genoa across the blue
and purple waters that drowned Shelley--since I began a laboured and futile imitation of "The
Prince." I sat up late last night with the jumbled accumulation; and at last made a little
fire of olive twigs and burnt it all, sheet by sheet--to begin again clear this morning.

But incidentally I have re-read most of Machiavelli, not excepting those scandalous letters
of his to Vettori, and it seems to me, now that I have released myself altogether from his
literary precedent, that he still has his use for me. In spite of his vast prestige I claim
kindred with him and set his name upon my title-page, in partial intimation of the matter of
my story. He takes me with sympathy not only by reason of the dream he pursued and the humanity
of his politics, but by the mixture of his nature. His vices come in, essential to my issue.
He is dead and gone, all his immediate correlations to party and faction have faded to insignificance,
leaving only on the one hand his broad method and conceptions, and upon the other his intimate
living personality, exposed down to its salacious corners as the soul of no contemporary can
ever be exposed. Of those double strands it is I have to write, of the subtle protesting perplexing
play of instinctive passion and desire against too abstract a dream of statesmanship. But things
that seemed to lie very far apart in Machiavelli's time have come near to one another; it is
no simple story of white passions struggling against the red that I have to tell.

The state-making dream is a very old dream indeed in the world's history. It plays too small
a part in novels. Plato and Confucius are but the highest of a great host of minds that have
had a kindred aspiration, have dreamt of a world of men better ordered, happier, finer, securer.
They imagined cities grown more powerful and peoples made rich and multitudinous by their efforts,
they thought in terms of harbours and shining navies, great roads engineered marvellously,
jungles cleared and deserts conquered, the ending of muddle and diseases and dirt and misery;
the ending of confusions that waste human possibilities; they thought of these things with
passion and desire as other men think of the soft lines and tender beauty of women. Thousands
of men there are to-day almost mastered by this white passion of statecraft, and in nearly
every one who reads and thinks you could find, I suspect, some sort of answering response.
But in every one it presents itself extraordinarily entangled and mixed up with other, more
intimate things.

It was so with Machiavelli. I picture him at San Casciano as he lived in retirement upon his
property after the fall of the Republic, perhaps with a twinge of the torture that punished
his conspiracy still lurking in his limbs. Such twinges could not stop his dreaming. Then it
was "The Prince" was written. All day he went about his personal affairs, saw homely neighbours,
dealt with his family, gave vent to everyday passions. He would sit in the shop of Donato del
Corno gossiping curiously among vicious company, or pace the lonely woods of his estate, book
in hand, full of bitter meditations. In the evening he returned home and went to his study.
At the entrance, he says, he pulled off his peasant clothes covered with the dust and dirt
of that immediate life, washed himself, put on his "noble court dress," closed the door on
the world of toiling and getting, private loving, private hating and personal regrets, sat
down with a sigh of contentment to those wider dreams.

I like to think of him so, with brown books before him lit by the light of candles in silver
candlesticks, or heading some new chapter of "The Prince," with a grey quill in his clean fine
hand.

So writing, he becomes a symbol for me, and the less none because of his animal humour, his
queer indecent side, and because of such lapses into utter meanness as that which made him
sound the note of the begging-letter writer even in his "Dedication," reminding His Magnificence
very urgently, as if it were the gist of his matter, of the continued malignity of fortune
in his affairs. These flaws complete him. They are my reason for preferring him as a symbol
to Plato, of whose indelicate side we know nothing, and whose correspondence with Dionysius
of Syracuse has perished; or to Confucius who travelled China in search of a Prince he might
instruct, with lapses and indignities now lost in the mists of ages. They have achieved the
apotheosis of individual forgetfulness, and Plato has the added glory of that acquired beauty,
that bust of the Indian Bacchus which is now indissolubly mingled with his tradition. They
have passed into the world of the ideal, and every humbug takes his freedoms with their names.
But Machiavelli, more recent and less popular, is still all human and earthly, a fallen brother--and
at the same time that nobly dressed and nobly dreaming writer at the desk.

That vision of the strengthened and perfected state is protagonist in my story. But as I re-read
"The Prince" and thought out the manner of my now abandoned project, I came to perceive how
that stir and whirl of human thought one calls by way of embodiment the French Revolution,
has altered absolutely the approach to such a question. Machiavelli, like Plato and Pythagoras
and Confucius two hundred odd decades before him, saw only one method by which a thinking man,
himself not powerful, might do the work of state building, and that was by seizing the imagination
of a Prince. Directly these men turned their thoughts towards realisation, their attitudes
became--what shall I call it?--secretarial. Machiavelli, it is true, had some little doubts
about the particular Prince he wanted, whether it was Caesar Borgia of Giuliano or Lorenzo,
but a Prince it had to be. Before I saw clearly the differences of our own time I searched
my mind for the modern equivalent of a Prince. At various times I redrafted a parallel dedication
to the Prince of Wales, to the Emperor William, to Mr. Evesham, to a certain newspaper proprietor
who was once my schoolfellow at City Merchants', to Mr. J. D. Rockefeller--all of them men
in their several ways and circumstances and possibilities, princely. Yet in every case my pen
bent of its own accord towards irony because--because, although at first I did not realise
it, I myself am just as free to be a prince. The appeal was unfair. The old sort of Prince,
the old little principality has vanished from the world. The commonweal is one man's absolute
estate and responsibility no more. In Machiavelli's time it was indeed to an extreme degree
one man's affair. But the days of the Prince who planned and directed and was the source and
centre of all power are ended. We are in a condition of affairs infinitely more complex, in
which every prince and statesman is something of a servant and every intelligent human being
something of a Prince. No magnificent pensive Lorenzos remain any more in this world for secretarial
hopes.

In a sense it is wonderful how power has vanished, in a sense wonderful how it has increased.
I sit here, an unarmed discredited man, at a small writing-table in a little defenceless dwelling
among the vines, and no human being can stop my pen except by the deliberate self-immolation
of murdering me, nor destroy its fruits except by theft and crime. No King, no council, can
seize and torture me; no Church, no nation silence me. Such powers of ruthless and complete
suppression have vanished. But that is not because power has diminished, but because it has
increased and become multitudinous, because it has dispersed itself and specialised. It is
no longer a negative power we have, but positive; we cannot prevent, but we can do. This age,
far beyond all previous ages, is full of powerful men, men who might, if they had the will
for it, achieve stupendous things.

The things that might be done to-day! The things indeed that are being done! It is the latter
that give one so vast a sense of the former. When I think of the progress of physical and mechanical
science, of medicine and sanitation during the last century, when I measure the increase in
general education and average efficiency, the power now available for human service, the merely
physical increment, and compare it with anything that has ever been at man's disposal before,
and when I think of what a little straggling, incidental, undisciplined and uncoordinated minority
of inventors, experimenters, educators, writers and organisers has achieved this development
of human possibilities, achieved it in spite of the disregard and aimlessness of the huge majority,
and the passionate resistance of the active dull, my imagination grows giddy with dazzling
intimations of the human splendours the justly organised state may yet attain. I glimpse for
a bewildering instant the heights that may be scaled, the splendid enterprises made possible.

But the appeal goes out now in other forms, in a book that catches at thousands of readers
for the eye of a Prince diffused. It is the old appeal indeed for the unification of human
effort, the ending of confusions, but instead of the Machiavellian deference to a flattered
lord, a man cries out of his heart to the unseen fellowship about him. The last written dedication
of all those I burnt last night, was to no single man, but to the socially constructive passion--in
any man....

There is, moreover, a second great difference in kind between my world and Machiavelli's. We
are discovering women. It is as if they had come across a vast interval since his time, into
the very chamber of the statesman.

2

In Machiavelli's outlook the interest of womanhood was in a region of life almost infinitely
remote from his statecraft. They were the vehicle of children, but only Imperial Rome and the
new world of to-day have ever had an inkling of the significance that might give them in the
state. They did their work, he thought, as the ploughed earth bears its crops. Apart from their
function of fertility they gave a humorous twist to life, stimulated worthy men to toil, and
wasted the hours of Princes. He left the thought of women outside with his other dusty things
when he went into his study to write, dismissed them from his mind. But our modern world is
burthened with its sense of the immense, now half articulate, significance of women. They stand
now, as it were, close beside the silver candlesticks, speaking as Machiavelli writes, until
he stays his pen and turns to discuss his writing with them.

It is this gradual discovery of sex as a thing collectively portentous that I have to mingle
with my statecraft if my picture is to be true which has turned me at length from a treatise
to the telling of my own story. In my life I have paralleled very closely the slow realisations
that are going on in the world about me. I began life ignoring women, they came to me at first
perplexing and dishonouring; only very slowly and very late in my life and after misadventure,
did I gauge the power and beauty of the love of man and woman and learnt how it must needs
frame a justifiable vision of the ordered world. Love has brought me to disaster, because my
career had been planned regardless of its possibility and value. But Machiavelli, it seems
to me, when he went into his study, left not only the earth of life outside but its unsuspected
soul.

3

Like Machiavelli at San Casciano, if I may take this analogy one step further, I too am an
exile. Office and leading are closed to me. The political career that promised so much for
me is shattered and ended for ever.

I look out from this vine-wreathed veranda under the branches of a stone pine; I see wide and
far across a purple valley whose sides are terraced and set with houses of pine and ivory,
the Gulf of Liguria gleaming sapphire blue, and cloud-like baseless mountains hanging in the
sky, and I think of lank and coaly steamships heaving on the grey rollers of the English Channel
and darkling streets wet with rain, I recall as if I were back there the busy exit from Charing
Cross, the cross and the money-changers' offices, the splendid grime of giant London and the
crowds going perpetually to and fro, the lights by night and the urgency and eventfulness of
that great rain-swept heart of the modern world.

It is difficult to think we have left that--for many years if not for ever. In thought I walk
once more in Palace Yard and hear the clink and clatter of hansoms and the quick quiet whirr
of motors; I go in vivid recent memories through the stir in the lobbies, I sit again at eventful
dinners in those old dining-rooms like cellars below the House--dinners that ended with shrill
division bells, I think of huge clubs swarming and excited by the bulletins of that electoral
battle that was for me the opening opportunity. I see the stencilled names and numbers go up
on the green baize, constituency after constituency, amidst murmurs or loud shouting....

It is over for me now and vanished. That opportunity will come no more. And so it is I sit
now at my stone table, half out of life already, in a warm, large, shadowy leisure, splashed
with sunlight and hung with vine tendrils, with paper before me to distil such wisdom as I
can, as Machiavelli in his exile sought to do, from the things I have learnt and felt during
the career that has ended now in my divorce.

I climbed high and fast from small beginnings. I had the mind of my party. I do not know where
I might not have ended, but for this red blaze that came out of my unguarded nature and closed
my career for ever.

CHAPTER THE SECOND ~~ BROMSTEAD AND MY FATHER

1

I dreamt first of states and cities and political things when I was a little boy in knickerbockers.

When I think of how such things began in my mind, there comes back to me the memory of an enormous
bleak room with its ceiling going up to heaven and its floor covered irregularly with patched
and defective oilcloth and a dingy mat or so and a "surround" as they call it, of dark stained
wood. Here and there against the wall are trunks and boxes. There are cupboards on either side
of the fireplace and bookshelves with books above them, and on the wall and rather tattered
is a large yellow-varnished geological map of the South of England. Over the mantel is a huge
lump of white coral rock and several big fossil bones, and above that hangs the portrait of
a brainy gentleman, sliced in half and displaying an interior of intricate detail and much
vigour of coloring. It is the floor I think of chiefly; over the oilcloth of which, assumed
to be land, spread towns and villages and forts of wooden bricks; there are steep square hills
(geologically, volumes of Orr's CYCLOPAEDIA OF THE SCIENCES) and the cracks and spaces of the
floor and the bare brown surround were the water channels and open sea of that continent of mine.

I still remember with infinite gratitude the great-uncle to whom I owe my bricks. He must have
been one of those rare adults who have not forgotten the chagrins and dreams of childhood.
He was a prosperous west of England builder; including my father he had three nephews, and
for each of them he caused a box of bricks to be made by an out-of-work carpenter, not the
insufficient supply of the toyshop, you understand, but a really adequate quantity of bricks
made out of oak and shaped and smoothed, bricks about five inches by two and a half by one,
and half-bricks and quarter-bricks to correspond. There were hundreds of them, many hundreds.
I could build six towers as high as myself with them, and there seemed quite enough for every
engineering project I could undertake. I could build whole towns with streets and houses and
churches and citadels; I could bridge every gap in the oilcloth and make causeways over crumpled
spaces (which I feigned to be morasses), and on a keel of whole bricks it was possible to construct
ships to push over the high seas to the remotest port in the room. And a disciplined population,
that rose at last by sedulous begging on birthdays and all convenient occasions to well over
two hundred, of lead sailors and soldiers, horse, foot and artillery, inhabited this world.

Justice has never been done to bricks and soldiers by those who write about toys. The praises
of the toy theatre have been a common theme for essayists, the planning of the scenes, the
painting and cutting out of the caste, penny plain twopence coloured, the stink and glory of
the performance and the final conflagration. I had such a theatre once, but I never loved it
nor hoped for much from it; my bricks and soldiers were my perpetual drama. I recall an incessant
variety of interests. There was the mystery and charm of the complicated buildings one could
make, with long passages and steps and windows through which one peeped into their intricacies,
and by means of slips of card one could make slanting ways in them, and send marbles rolling
from top to base and thence out into the hold of a waiting ship. Then there were the fortresses
and gun emplacements and covered ways in which one's soldiers went. And there was commerce;
the shops and markets and store-rooms full of nasturtium seed, thrift seed, lupin beans and
suchlike provender from the garden; such stuff one stored in match-boxes and pill-boxes, or
packed in sacks of old glove fingers tied up with thread and sent off by waggons along the
great military road to the beleaguered fortress on the Indian frontier beyond the worn places
that were dismal swamps. And there were battles on the way.

That great road is still clear in my memory. I was given, I forget by what benefactor, certain
particularly fierce red Indians of lead--I have never seen such soldiers since--and for these
my father helped me to make tepees of brown paper, and I settled them in a hitherto desolate
country under the frowning nail-studded cliffs of an ancient trunk. Then I conquered them and
garrisoned their land. (Alas! they died, no doubt through contact with civilisation--one my
mother trod on--and their land became a wilderness again and was ravaged for a time by a clockwork
crocodile of vast proportions.) And out towards the coal-scuttle was a region near the impassable
thickets of the ragged hearthrug where lived certain china Zulus brandishing spears, and a
mountain country of rudely piled bricks concealing the most devious and enchanting caves and
several mines of gold and silver paper. Among these rocks a number of survivors from a Noah's
Ark made a various, dangerous, albeit frequently invalid and crippled fauna, and I was wont
to increase the uncultivated wildness of this region further by trees of privet-twigs from
the garden hedge and box from the garden borders. By these territories went my Imperial Road
carrying produce to and fro, bridging gaps in the oilcloth, tunnelling through Encyclopaedic
hills--one tunnel was three volumes long--defended as occasion required by camps of paper tents
or brick blockhouses, and ending at last in a magnificently engineered ascent to a fortress
on the cliffs commanding the Indian reservation.

My games upon the floor must have spread over several years and developed from small beginnings,
incorporating now this suggestion and now that. They stretch, I suppose, from seven to eleven
or twelve. I played them intermittently, and they bulk now in the retrospect far more significantly
than they did at the time. I played them in bursts, and then forgot them for long periods;
through the spring and summer I was mostly out of doors, and school and classes caught me early.
And in the retrospect I see them all not only magnified and transfigured, but fore-shortened
and confused together. A clockwork railway, I seem to remember, came and went; one or two clockwork
boats, toy sailing ships that, being keeled, would do nothing but lie on their beam ends on
the floor; a detestable lot of cavalrymen, undersized and gilt all over, given me by a maiden
aunt, and very much what one might expect from an aunt, that I used as Nero used his Christians
to ornament my public buildings; and I finally melted some into fratricidal bullets, and therewith
blew the rest to flat splashes of lead by means of a brass cannon in the garden.

I find this empire of the floor much more vivid and detailed in my memory now than many of
the owners of the skirts and legs and boots that went gingerly across its territories. Occasionally,
alas! they stooped to scrub, abolishing in one universal destruction the slow growth of whole
days of civilised development. I still remember the hatred and disgust of these catastrophes.
Like Noah I was given warnings. Did I disregard them, coarse red hands would descend, plucking
garrisons from fortresses and sailors from ships, jumbling them up in their wrong boxes, clumsily
so that their rifles and swords were broken, sweeping the splendid curves of the Imperial Road
into heaps of ruins, casting the jungle growth of Zululand into the fire.

"Well, Master Dick," the voice of this cosmic calamity would say, "you ought to have put them
away last night. No! I can't wait until you've sailed them all away in ships. I got my work
to do, and do it I will."

And in no time all my continents and lands were swirling water and swiping strokes of house-flannel.

That was the worst of my giant visitants, but my mother too, dear lady, was something of a
terror to this microcosm. She wore spring-sided boots, a kind of boot now vanished, I believe,
from the world, with dull bodies and shiny toes, and a silk dress with flounces that were very
destructive to the more hazardous viaducts of the Imperial Road. She was always, I seem to
remember, fetching me; fetching me for a meal, fetching me for a walk or, detestable absurdity!
fetching me for a wash and brush up, and she never seemed to understand anything whatever of
the political Systems across which she came to me. Also she forbade all toys on Sundays except
the bricks for church-building and the soldiers for church parade, or a Scriptural use of the
remains of the Noah's Ark mixed up with a wooden Swiss dairy farm. But she really did not know
whether a thing was a church or not unless it positively bristled with cannon, and many a Sunday
afternoon have I played Chicago (with the fear of God in my heart) under an infidel pretence
that it was a new sort of ark rather elaborately done.

Chicago, I must explain, was based upon my father's description of the pig slaughterings in
that city and certain pictures I had seen. You made your beasts--which were all the ark lot
really, provisionally conceived as pigs--go up elaborate approaches to a central pen, from
which they went down a cardboard slide four at a time, and dropped most satisfyingly down a
brick shaft, and pitter-litter over some steep steps to where a head slaughterman (ne Noah)
strung a cotton loop round their legs and sent them by pin hooks along a wire to a second slaughterman
with a chipped foot (formerly Mrs. Noah) who, if I remember rightly, converted them into Army
sausage by means of a portion of the inside of an old alarum clock.

My mother did not understand my games, but my father did. He wore bright-coloured socks and
carpet slippers when he was indoors--my mother disliked boots in the house--and he would sit
down on my little chair and survey the microcosm on the floor with admirable understanding
and sympathy.

It was he who gave me most of my toys and, I more than suspect, most of my ideas. "Here's some
corrugated iron," he would say, "suitable for roofs and fencing," and hand me a lump of that
stiff crinkled paper that is used for packing medicine bottles. Or, "Dick, do you see the tiger
loose near the Imperial Road?--won't do for your cattle ranch." And I would find a bright new
lead tiger like a special creation at large in the world, and demanding a hunting expedition
and much elaborate effort to get him safely housed in the city menagerie beside the captured
dragon crocodile, tamed now, and his key lost and the heart and spring gone out of him.

And to the various irregular reading of my father I owe the inestimable blessing of never having
a boy's book in my boyhood except those of Jules Verne. But my father used to get books for
himself and me from the Bromstead Institute, Fenimore Cooper and Mayne Reid and illustrated
histories; one of the Russo-Turkish war and one of Napier's expedition to Abyssinia I read
from end to end; Stanley and Livingstone, lives of Wellington, Napoleon and Garibaldi, and
back volumes of PUNCH, from which I derived conceptions of foreign and domestic politics it
has taken years of adult reflection to correct. And at home permanently we had Wood's NATURAL
HISTORY, a brand-new illustrated Green's HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH PEOPLE, Irving's COMPANIONS
OF COLUMBUS, a great number of unbound parts of some geographical work, a VOYAGE ROUND THE
WORLD I think it was called, with pictures of foreign places, and Clarke's NEW TESTAMENT with
a map of Palestine, and a variety of other informing books bought at sales. There was a Sowerby's
BOTANY also, with thousands of carefully tinted pictures of British plants, and one or two
other important works in the sitting-room. I was allowed to turn these over and even lie on
the floor with them on Sundays and other occasions of exceptional cleanliness.

And in the attic I found one day a very old forgotten map after the fashion of a bird's-eye
view, representing the Crimea, that fascinated me and kept me for hours navigating its waters
with a pin.

2

My father was a lank-limbed man in easy shabby tweed clothes and with his hands in his trouser
pockets. He was a science teacher, taking a number of classes at the Bromstead Institute in
Kent under the old Science and Art Department, and "visiting" various schools; and our resources
were eked out by my mother's income of nearly a hundred pounds a year, and by his inheritance
of a terrace of three palatial but structurally unsound stucco houses near Bromstead Station.

They were big clumsy residences in the earliest Victorian style, interminably high and with
deep damp basements and downstairs coal-cellars and kitchens that suggested an architect vindictively
devoted to the discomfort of the servant class. If so, he had overreached himself and defeated
his end, for no servant would stay in them unless for exceptional wages or exceptional tolerance
of inefficiency or exceptional freedom in repartee. Every storey in the house was from twelve
to fifteen feet high (which would have been cool and pleasant in a hot climate), and the stairs
went steeply up, to end at last in attics too inaccessible for occupation. The ceilings had
vast plaster cornices of classical design, fragments of which would sometimes fall unexpectedly,
and the wall-papers were bold and gigantic in pattern and much variegated by damp and ill-mended
rents.

As my father was quite unable to let more than one of these houses at a time, and that for
the most part to eccentric and undesirable tenants, he thought it politic to live in one of
the two others, and devote the rent he received from the let one, when it was let, to the incessant
necessary repairing of all three. He also did some of the repairing himself and, smoking a
bull-dog pipe the while, which my mother would not allow him to do in the house, he cultivated
vegetables in a sketchy, unpunctual and not always successful manner in the unoccupied gardens.
The three houses faced north, and the back of the one we occupied was covered by a grape-vine
that yielded, I remember, small green grapes for pies in the spring, and imperfectly ripe black
grapes in favourable autumns for the purposes of dessert. The grape-vine played an important
part in my life, for my father broke his neck while he was pruning it, when I was thirteen.

My father was what is called a man of ideas, but they were not always good ideas. My grandfather
had been a private schoolmaster and one of the founders of the College of Preceptors, and my
father had assisted him in his school until increasing competition and diminishing attendance
had made it evident that the days of small private schools kept by unqualified persons were
numbered. Thereupon my father had roused himself and had qualified as a science teacher under
the Science and Art Department, which in these days had charge of the scientific and artistic
education of the mass of the English population, and had thrown himself into science teaching
and the earning of government grants therefor with great if transitory zeal and success.

I do not remember anything of my father's earlier and more energetic time. I was the child
of my parents' middle years; they married when my father was thirty-five and my mother past
forty, and I saw only the last decadent phase of his educational career.

The Science and Art Department has vanished altogether from the world, and people are forgetting
it now with the utmost readiness and generosity. Part of its substance and staff and spirit
survive, more or less completely digested into the Board of Education.

The world does move on, even in its government. It is wonderful how many of the clumsy and
limited governing bodies of my youth and early manhood have given place now to more scientific
and efficient machinery. When I was a boy, Bromstead, which is now a borough, was ruled by
a strange body called a Local Board--it was the Age of Boards--and I still remember indistinctly
my father rejoicing at the breakfast-table over the liberation of London from the corrupt and
devastating control of a Metropolitan Board of Works. Then there were also School Boards; I
was already practically in politics before the London School Board was absorbed by the spreading
tentacles of the London County Council.

It gives a measure of the newness of our modern ideas of the State to remember that the very
beginnings of public education lie within my father's lifetime, and that many most intelligent
and patriotic people were shocked beyond measure at the State doing anything of the sort. When
he was born, totally illiterate people who could neither read a book nor write more than perhaps
a clumsy signature, were to be found everywhere in England; and great masses of the population
were getting no instruction at all. Only a few schools flourished upon the patronage of exceptional
parents; all over the country the old endowed grammar schools were to be found sinking and
dwindling; many of them had closed altogether. In the new great centres of population multitudes
of children were sweated in the factories, darkly ignorant and wretched and the under-equipped
and under-staffed National and British schools, supported by voluntary contributions and sectarian
rivalries, made an ineffectual fight against this festering darkness. It was a condition of
affairs clamouring for remedies, but there was an immense amount of indifference and prejudice
to be overcome before any remedies were possible. Perhaps some day some industrious and lucid
historian will disentangle all the muddle of impulses and antagonisms, the commercialism, utilitarianism,
obstinate conservatism, humanitarian enthusiasm, out of which our present educational organisation
arose. I have long since come to believe it necessary that all new social institutions should
be born in confusion, and that at first they should present chiefly crude and ridiculous aspects.
The distrust of government in the Victorian days was far too great, and the general intelligence
far too low, to permit the State to go about the new business it was taking up in a businesslike
way, to train teachers, build and equip schools, endow pedagogic research, and provide properly
written school-books. These things it was felt MUST be provided by individual and local effort,
and since it was manifest that it was individual and local effort that were in default, it
was reluctantly agreed to stimulate them by money payments. The State set up a machinery of
examination both in Science and Art and for the elementary schools; and payments, known technically
as grants, were made in accordance with the examination results attained, to such schools as
Providence might see fit to send into the world. In this way it was felt the Demand would be
established that would, according to the beliefs of that time, inevitably ensure the Supply.
An industry of "Grant earning" was created, and this would give education as a necessary by-product.

In the end this belief was found to need qualification, but Grant-earning was still in full
activity when I was a small boy. So far as the Science and Art Department and my father are
concerned, the task of examination was entrusted to eminent scientific men, for the most part
quite unaccustomed to teaching. You see, if they also were teaching similar classes to those
they examined, it was feared that injustice might be done. Year after year these eminent persons
set questions and employed subordinates to read and mark the increasing thousands of answers
that ensued, and having no doubt the national ideal of fairness well developed in their minds,
they were careful each year to re-read the preceding papers before composing the current one,
in order to see what it was usual to ask. As a result of this, in the course of a few years
the recurrence and permutation of questions became almost calculable, and since the practical
object of the teaching was to teach people not science, but how to write answers to these questions,
the industry of Grant-earning assumed a form easily distinguished from any kind of genuine
education whatever.

Other remarkable compromises had also to be made with the spirit of the age. The unfortunate
conflict between Religion and Science prevalent at this time was mitigated, if I remember rightly,
by making graduates in arts and priests in the established church Science Teachers EX OFFICIO,
and leaving local and private enterprise to provide schools, diagrams, books, material, according
to the conceptions of efficiency prevalent in the district. Private enterprise made a particularly
good thing of the books. A number of competing firms of publishers sprang into existence specialising
in Science and Art Department work; they set themselves to produce text-books that should supply
exactly the quantity and quality of knowledge necessary for every stage of each of five and
twenty subjects into which desirable science was divided, and copies and models and instructions
that should give precisely the method and gestures esteemed as proficiency in art. Every section
of each book was written in the idiom found to be most satisfactory to the examiners, and test
questions extracted from papers set in former years were appended to every chapter. By means
of these last the teacher was able to train his class to the very highest level of grant-earning
efficiency, and very naturally he cast all other methods of exposition aside. First he posed
his pupils with questions and then dictated model replies.

That was my father's method of instruction. I attended his classes as an elementary grant-earner
from the age of ten until his death, and it is so I remember him, sitting on the edge of a
table, smothering a yawn occasionally and giving out the infallible formulae to the industriously
scribbling class sitting in rows of desks before him. Occasionally he would slide to his feet
and go to a blackboard on an easel and draw on that very slowly and deliberately in coloured
chalks a diagram for the class to copy in coloured pencils, and sometimes he would display
a specimen or arrange an experiment for them to see. The room in the Institute in which he
taught was equipped with a certain amount of apparatus prescribed as necessary for subject
this and subject that by the Science and Art Department, and this my father would supplement
with maps and diagrams and drawings of his own.

But he never really did experiments, except that in the class in systematic botany he sometimes
made us tease common flowers to pieces. He did not do experiments if he could possibly help
it, because in the first place they used up time and gas for the Bunsen burner and good material
in a ruinous fashion, and in the second they were, in his rather careless and sketchy hands,
apt to endanger the apparatus of the Institute and even the lives of his students. Then thirdly,
real experiments involved washing up. And moreover they always turned out wrong, and sometimes
misled the too observant learner very seriously and opened demoralising controversies. Quite
early in life I acquired an almost ineradicable sense of the unscientific perversity of Nature
and the impassable gulf that is fixed between systematic science and elusive fact. I knew,
for example, that in science, whether it be subject XII., Organic Chemistry, or subject XVII.,
Animal Physiology, when you blow into a glass of lime-water it instantly becomes cloudy, and
if you continue to blow it clears again, whereas in truth you may blow into the stuff from
the lime-water bottle until you are crimson in the face and painful under the ears, and it
never becomes cloudy at all. And I knew, too, that in science if you put potassium chlorate
into a retort and heat it over a Bunsen burner, oxygen is disengaged and may be collected over
water, whereas in real life if you do anything of the sort the vessel cracks with a loud report,
the potassium chlorate descends sizzling upon the flame, the experimenter says "Oh! Damn!"
with astonishing heartiness and distinctness, and a lady student in the back seats gets up
and leaves the room.

Science is the organised conquest of Nature, and I can quite understand that ancient libertine
refusing to co-operate in her own undoing. And I can quite understand, too, my father's preference
for what he called an illustrative experiment, which was simply an arrangement of the apparatus
in front of the class with nothing whatever by way of material, and the Bunsen burner clean
and cool, and then a slow luminous description of just what you did put in it when you were
so ill-advised as to carry the affair beyond illustration, and just exactly what ought anyhow
to happen when you did. He had considerable powers of vivid expression, so that in this way
he could make us see all he described. The class, freed from any unpleasant nervous tension,
could draw this still life without flinching, and if any part was too difficult to draw, then
my father would produce a simplified version on the blackboard to be copied instead. And he
would also write on the blackboard any exceptionally difficult but grant-earning words, such
as "empyreumatic" or "botryoidal."

Some words in constant use he rarely explained. I remember once sticking up my hand and asking
him in the full flow of description, "Please, sir, what is flocculent?"

"The precipitate is."

"Yes, sir, but what does it mean?"

"Oh! flocculent!" said my father, "flocculent! Why--" he extended his hand and arm and twiddled
his fingers for a second in the air. "Like that," he said.

I thought the explanation sufficient, but he paused for a moment after giving it. "As in a
flock bed, you know," he added and resumed his discourse.

3

My father, I am afraid, carried a natural incompetence in practical affairs to an exceptionally
high level. He combined practical incompetence, practical enterprise and a thoroughly sanguine
temperament, in a manner that I have never seen paralleled in any human being. He was always
trying to do new things in the briskest manner, under the suggestion of books or papers or
his own spontaneous imagination, and as he had never been trained to do anything whatever in
his life properly, his futilities were extensive and thorough. At one time he nearly gave up
his classes for intensive culture, so enamoured was he of its possibilities; the peculiar pungency
of the manure he got, in pursuit of a chemical theory of his own, has scarred my olfactory
memories for a lifetime. The intensive culture phase is very clear in my memory; it came near
the end of his career and when I was between eleven and twelve. I was mobilised to gather caterpillars
on several occasions, and assisted in nocturnal raids upon the slugs by lantern-light that
wrecked my preparation work for school next day. My father dug up both lawns, and trenched
and manured in spasms of immense vigour alternating with periods of paralysing distaste for
the garden. And for weeks he talked about eight hundred pounds an acre at every meal.

A garden, even when it is not exasperated by intensive methods, is a thing as exacting as a
baby, its moods have to be watched; it does not wait upon the cultivator's convenience, but
has times of its own. Intensive culture greatly increases this disposition to trouble mankind;
it makes a garden touchy and hysterical, a drugged and demoralised and over-irritated garden.
My father got at cross purposes with our two patches at an early stage. Everything grew wrong
from the first to last, and if my father's manures intensified nothing else, they certainly
intensified the Primordial Curse. The peas were eaten in the night before they were three inches
high, the beans bore nothing but blight, the only apparent result of a spraying of the potatoes
was to develop a PENCHANT in the cat for being ill indoors, the cucumber frames were damaged
by the catapulting of boys going down the lane at the back, and all your cucumbers were mysteriously
embittered. That lane with its occasional passers-by did much to wreck the intensive scheme,
because my father always stopped work and went indoors if any one watched him. His special
manure was apt to arouse a troublesome spirit of inquiry in hardy natures.

In digging his rows and shaping his patches he neglected the guiding string and trusted to
his eye altogether too much, and the consequent obliquity and the various wind-breaks and scare-crows
he erected, and particularly an irrigation contrivance he began and never finished by which
everything was to be watered at once by means of pieces of gutter from the roof and outhouses
of Number 2, and a large and particularly obstinate clump of elder-bushes in the abolished
hedge that he had failed to destroy entirely either by axe or by fire, combined to give the
gardens under intensive culture a singularly desolate and disorderly appearance. He took steps
towards the diversion of our house drain under the influence of the Sewage Utilisation Society;
but happily he stopped in time. He hardly completed any of the operations he began; something
else became more urgent or simply he tired; a considerable area of the Number 2 territory was
never even dug up.

In the end the affair irritated him beyond endurance. Never was a man less horticulturally-minded.
The clamour of these vegetables he had launched into the world for his service and assistance,
wore out his patience. He would walk into the garden the happiest of men after a day or so
of disregard, talking to me of history perhaps or social organisation, or summarising some
book he had read. He talked to me of anything that interested him, regardless of my limitations.
Then he would begin to note the growth of the weeds. "This won't do," he would say and pull
up a handful.

More weeding would follow and the talk would become fragmentary. His hands would become earthy,
his nails black, weeds would snap off in his careless grip, leaving the roots behind. The world
would darken. He would look at his fingers with disgusted astonishment. "CURSE these weeds!"
he would say from his heart. His discourse was at an end.

I have memories, too, of his sudden unexpected charges into the tranquillity of the house,
his hands and clothes intensively enriched. He would come in like a whirlwind. "This damned
stuff all over me and the Agricultural Chemistry Class at six! Bah! AAAAAAH!"

My mother would never learn not to attempt to break him of swearing on such occasions. She
would remain standing a little stiffly in the scullery refusing to assist him to the adjectival
towel he sought.

"If you say such things--"

He would dance with rage and hurl the soap about. "The towel!" he would cry, flicking suds
from big fingers in every direction; "the towel! I'll let the blithering class slide if you
don't give me the towel! I'll give up everything, I tell you--everything!"...

At last with the failure of the lettuces came the breaking point. I was in the little arbour
learning Latin irregular verbs when it happened. I can see him still, his peculiar tenor voice
still echoes in my brain, shouting his opinion of intensive culture for all the world to hear,
and slashing away at that abominable mockery of a crop with a hoe. We had tied them up with
bast only a week or so before, and now half were rotten and half had shot up into tall slender
growths. He had the hoe in both hands and slogged. Great wipes he made, and at each stroke
he said, "Take that!"

The air was thick with flying fragments of abortive salad. It was a fantastic massacre. It
was the French Revolution of that cold tyranny, the vindictive overthrow of the pampered vegetable
aristocrats. After he had assuaged his passion upon them, he turned for other prey; he kicked
holes in two of our noblest marrows, flicked off the heads of half a row of artichokes, and
shied the hoe with a splendid smash into the cucumber frame. Something of the awe of that moment
returns to me as I write of it.

"Well, my boy," he said, approaching with an expression of beneficent happiness, "I've done
with gardening. Let's go for a walk like reasonable beings. I've had enough of this"--his face
was convulsed for an instant with bitter resentment--"Pandering to cabbages."

4

That afternoon's walk sticks in my memory for many reasons. One is that we went further than
I had ever been before; far beyond Keston and nearly to Seven-oaks, coming back by train from
Dunton Green, and the other is that my father as he went along talked about himself, not so
much to me as to himself, and about life and what he had done with it. He monologued so that
at times he produced an effect of weird world-forgetfulness. I listened puzzled, and at that
time not understanding many things that afterwards became plain to me. It is only in recent
years that I have discovered the pathos of that monologue; how friendless my father was and
uncompanioned in his thoughts and feelings, and what a hunger he may have felt for the sympathy
of the undeveloped youngster who trotted by his side.

"I'm no gardener," he said, "I'm no anything. Why the devil did I start gardening?

"I suppose man was created to mind a garden... But the Fall let us out of that! What was I
created for? God! what was I created for?...

"Slaves to matter! Minding inanimate things! It doesn't suit me, you know. I've got no hands
and no patience. I've mucked about with life. Mucked about with life." He suddenly addressed
himself to me, and for an instant I started like an eavesdropper discovered. "Whatever you
do, boy, whatever you do, make a Plan. Make a good Plan and stick to it. Find out what life
is about--I never have--and set yourself to do whatever you ought to do. I admit it's a puzzle....

"Those damned houses have been the curse of my life. Stucco white elephants! Beastly cracked
stucco with stains of green--black and green. Conferva and soot.... Property, they are!...
Beware of Things, Dick, beware of Things! Before you know where you are you are waiting on
them and minding them. They'll eat your life up. Eat up your hours and your blood and energy!
When those houses came to me, I ought to have sold them--or fled the country. I ought to have
cleared out. Sarcophagi--eaters of men! Oh! the hours and days of work, the nights of anxiety
those vile houses have cost me! The painting! It worked up my arms; it got all over me. I stank
of it. It made me ill. It isn't living--it's minding....

"Property's the curse of life. Property! Ugh! Look at this country all cut up into silly little
parallelograms, look at all those villas we passed just now and those potato patches and that
tarred shanty and the hedge! Somebody's minding every bit of it like a dog tied to a cart's
tail. Patching it and bothering about it. Bothering! Yapping at every passer-by. Look at that
notice-board! One rotten worried little beast wants to keep us other rotten little beasts off
HIS patch,--God knows why! Look at the weeds in it. Look at the mended fence!... There's no
property worth having, Dick, but money. That's only good to spend. All these things. Human
souls buried under a cartload of blithering rubbish....

"I'm not a fool, Dick. I have qualities, imagination, a sort of go. I ought to have made a
better thing of life.

"I'm sure I could have done things. Only the old people pulled my leg. They started me wrong.
They never started me at all. I only began to find out what life was like when I was nearly forty.

"If I'd gone to a university; if I'd had any sort of sound training, if I hadn't slipped into
the haphazard places that came easiest....

"Nobody warned me. Nobody. It isn't a world we live in, Dick; it's a cascade of accidents;
it's a chaos exasperated by policemen! YOU be warned in time, Dick. You stick to a plan. Don't
wait for any one to show you the way. Nobody will. There isn't a way till you make one. Get
education, get a good education. Fight your way to the top. It's your only chance. I've watched
you. You'll do no good at digging and property minding. There isn't a neighbour in Bromstead
won't be able to skin you at suchlike games. You and I are the brainy unstable kind, topside
or nothing. And if ever those blithering houses come to you--don't have 'em. Give them away!
Dynamite 'em--and off! LIVE, Dick! I'll get rid of them for you if I can, Dick, but remember
what I say."...

So it was my father discoursed, if not in those particular words, yet exactly in that manner,
as he slouched along the southward road, with resentful eyes becoming less resentful as he
talked, and flinging out clumsy illustrative motions at the outskirts of Bromstead as we passed
along them. That afternoon he hated Bromstead, from its foot-tiring pebbles up. He had no illusions
about Bromstead or himself. I have the clearest impression of him in his garden-stained tweeds
with a deer-stalker hat on the back of his head and presently a pipe sometimes between his
teeth and sometimes in his gesticulating hand, as he became diverted by his talk from his original
exasperation....

This particular afternoon is no doubt mixed up in my memory with many other afternoons; all
sorts of things my father said and did at different times have got themselves referred to it;
it filled me at the time with a great unprecedented sense of fellowship and it has become the
symbol now for all our intercourse together. If I didn't understand the things he said, I did
the mood he was in. He gave me two very broad ideas in that talk and the talks I have mingled
with it; he gave them to me very clearly and they have remained fundamental in my mind; one
a sense of the extraordinary confusion and waste and planlessness of the human life that went
on all about us; and the other of a great ideal of order and economy which he called variously
Science and Civilisation, and which, though I do not remember that he ever used that word,
I suppose many people nowadays would identify with Socialism,--as the Fabians expound it.

He was not very definite about this Science, you must understand, but he seemed always to be
waving his hand towards it,--just as his contemporary Tennyson seems always to be doing--he
belonged to his age and mostly his talk was destructive of the limited beliefs of his time,
he led me to infer rather than actually told me that this Science was coming, a spirit of light
and order, to the rescue of a world groaning and travailing in muddle for the want of it....

5

When I think of Bromstead nowadays I find it inseparably bound up with the disorders of my
father's gardening, and the odd patchings and paintings that disfigured his houses. It was
all of a piece with that.

Let me try and give something of the quality of Bromstead and something of its history. It
is the quality and history of a thousand places round and about London, and round and about
the other great centres of population in the world. Indeed it is in a measure the quality of
the whole of this modern world from which we who have the statesman's passion struggle to evolve,
and dream still of evolving order.

First, then, you must think of Bromstead a hundred and fifty years ago, as a narrow irregular
little street of thatched houses strung out on the London and Dover Road, a little mellow sample
unit of a social order that had a kind of completeness, at its level, of its own. At that time
its population numbered a little under two thousand people, mostly engaged in agricultural
work or in trades serving agriculture. There was a blacksmith, a saddler, a chemist, a doctor,
a barber, a linen-draper (who brewed his own beer); a veterinary surgeon, a hardware shop,
and two capacious inns. Round and about it were a number of pleasant gentlemen's seats, whose
owners went frequently to London town in their coaches along the very tolerable high-road.
The church was big enough to hold the whole population, were people minded to go to church,
and indeed a large proportion did go, and all who married were married in it, and everybody,
to begin with, was christened at its font and buried at last in its yew-shaded graveyard. Everybody
knew everybody in the place. It was, in fact, a definite place and a real human community in
those days. There was a pleasant old market-house in the middle of the town with a weekly market,
and an annual fair at which much cheerful merry making and homely intoxication occurred; there
was a pack of hounds which hunted within five miles of London Bridge, and the local gentry
would occasionally enliven the place with valiant cricket matches for a hundred guineas a side,
to the vast excitement of the entire population. It was very much the same sort of place that
it had been for three or four centuries. A Bromstead Rip van Winkle from 1550 returning in
1750 would have found most of the old houses still as he had known them, the same trades a
little improved and differentiated one from the other, the same roads rather more carefully
tended, the Inns not very much altered, the ancient familiar market-house. The occasional wheeled
traffic would have struck him as the most remarkable difference, next perhaps to the swaggering
painted stone monuments instead of brasses and the protestant severity of the communion-table
in the parish church,--both from the material point of view very little things. A Rip van Winkle
from 1350, again, would have noticed scarcely greater changes; fewer clergy, more people, and
particularly more people of the middling sort; the glass in the windows of many of the houses,
the stylish chimneys springing up everywhere would have impressed him, and suchlike details.
The place would have had the same boundaries, the same broad essential features, would have
been still itself in the way that a man is still himself after he has "filled out" a little
and grown a longer beard and changed his clothes.

But after 1750 something got hold of the world, something that was destined to alter the scale
of every human affair.

That something was machinery and a vague energetic disposition to improve material things.
In another part of England ingenious people were beginning to use coal in smelting iron, and
were producing metal in abundance and metal castings in sizes that had hitherto been unattainable.
Without warning or preparation, increment involving countless possibilities of further increment
was coming to the strength of horses and men. "Power," all unsuspected, was flowing like a
drug into the veins of the social body.

Nobody seems to have perceived this coming of power, and nobody had calculated its probable
consequences. Suddenly, almost inadvertently, people found themselves doing things that would
have amazed their ancestors. They began to construct wheeled vehicles much more easily and
cheaply than they had ever done before, to make up roads and move things about that had formerly
been esteemed too heavy for locomotion, to join woodwork with iron nails instead of wooden
pegs, to achieve all sorts of mechanical possibilities, to trade more freely and manufacture
on a larger scale, to send goods abroad in a wholesale and systematic way, to bring back commodities
from overseas, not simply spices and fine commodities, but goods in bulk. The new influence
spread to agriculture, iron appliances replaced wooden, breeding of stock became systematic,
paper-making and printing increased and cheapened. Roofs of slate and tile appeared amidst
and presently prevailed over the original Bromstead thatch, the huge space of Common to the
south was extensively enclosed, and what had been an ill-defined horse-track to Dover, only
passable by adventurous coaches in dry weather, became the Dover Road, and was presently the
route first of one and then of several daily coaches. The High Street was discovered to be
too tortuous for these awakening energies, and a new road cut off its worst contortions. Residential
villas appeared occupied by retired tradesmen and widows, who esteemed the place healthy, and
by others of a strange new unoccupied class of people who had money invested in joint-stock
enterprises. First one and then several boys' boarding-schools came, drawing their pupils from
London,--my grandfather's was one of these. London, twelve miles to the north-west, was making
itself felt more and more.

But this was only the beginning of the growth period, the first trickle of the coming flood
of mechanical power. Away in the north they were casting iron in bigger and bigger forms, working
their way to the production of steel on a large scale, applying power in factories. Bromstead
had almost doubted in size again long before the railway came; there was hardly any thatch
left in the High Street, but instead were houses with handsome brass-knockered front doors
and several windows, and shops with shop-fronts all of square glass panes, and the place was
lighted publicly now by oil lamps--previously only one flickering lamp outside each of the
coaching inns had broken the nocturnal darkness. And there was talk, it long remained talk,--of
gas. The gasworks came in 1834, and about that date my father's three houses must have been
built convenient for the London Road. They mark nearly the beginning of the real suburban quality;
they were let at first to City people still engaged in business.

And then hard on the gasworks had come the railway and cheap coal; there was a wild outbreak
of brickfields upon the claylands to the east, and the Great Growth had begun in earnest. The
agricultural placidities that had formerly come to the very borders of the High Street were
broken up north, west and south, by new roads. This enterprising person and then that began
to "run up" houses, irrespective of every other enterprising person who was doing the same
thing. A Local Board came into existence, and with much hesitation and penny-wise economy inaugurated
drainage works. Rates became a common topic, a fact of accumulating importance. Several chapels
of zinc and iron appeared, and also a white new church in commercial Gothic upon the common,
and another of red brick in the residential district out beyond the brickfields towards Chessington.

The population doubled again and doubled again, and became particularly teeming in the prolific
"working-class" district about the deep-rutted, muddy, coal-blackened roads between the gasworks,
Blodgett's laundries, and the railway goods-yard. Weekly properties, that is to say small houses
built by small property owners and let by the week, sprang up also in the Cage Fields, and
presently extended right up the London Road. A single national school in an inconvenient situation
set itself inadequately to collect subscriptions and teach the swarming, sniffing, grimy offspring
of this dingy new population to read. The villages of Beckington, which used to be three miles
to the west, and Blamely four miles to the east of Bromstead, were experiencing similar distensions
and proliferations, and grew out to meet us. All effect of locality or community had gone from
these places long before I was born; hardly any one knew any one; there was no general meeting
place any more, the old fairs were just common nuisances haunted by gypsies, van showmen, Cheap
Jacks and London roughs, the churches were incapable of a quarter of the population. One or
two local papers of shameless veniality reported the proceedings of the local Bench and the
local Board, compelled tradesmen who were interested in these affairs to advertise, used the
epithet "Bromstedian" as one expressing peculiar virtues, and so maintained in the general
mind a weak tradition of some local quality that embraced us all. Then the parish graveyard
filled up and became a scandal, and an ambitious area with an air of appetite was walled in
by a Bromstead Cemetery Company, and planted with suitably high-minded and sorrowful varieties
of conifer. A stonemason took one of the earlier villas with a front garden at the end of the
High Street, and displayed a supply of urns on pillars and headstones and crosses in stone,
marble, and granite, that would have sufficed to commemorate in elaborate detail the entire
population of Bromstead as one found it in 1750.

The cemetery was made when I was a little boy of five or six; I was in the full tide of building
and growth from the first; the second railway with its station at Bromstead North and the drainage
followed when I was ten or eleven, and all my childish memories are of digging and wheeling,
of woods invaded by building, roads gashed open and littered with iron pipes amidst a fearful
smell of gas, of men peeped at and seen toiling away deep down in excavations, of hedges broken
down and replaced by planks, of wheelbarrows and builders' sheds, of rivulets overtaken and
swallowed up by drain-pipes. Big trees, and especially elms, cleared of undergrowth and left
standing amid such things, acquired a peculiar tattered dinginess rather in the quality of
needy widow women who have seen happier days.

The Ravensbrook of my earlier memories was a beautiful stream. It came into my world out of
a mysterious Beyond, out of a garden, splashing brightly down a weir which had once been the
weir of a mill. (Above the weir and inaccessible there were bulrushes growing in splendid clumps,
and beyond that, pampas grass, yellow and crimson spikes of hollyhock, and blue suggestions
of wonderland.) From the pool at the foot of this initial cascade it flowed in a leisurely
fashion beside a footpath,--there were two pretty thatched cottages on the left, and here were
ducks, and there were willows on the right,--and so came to where great trees grew on high
banks on either hand and bowed closer, and at last met overhead. This part was difficult to
reach because of an old fence, but a little boy might glimpse that long cavern of greenery
by wading. Either I have actually seen kingfishers there, or my father has described them so
accurately to me that he inserted them into my memory. I remember them there anyhow. Most of
that overhung part I never penetrated at all, but followed the field path with my mother and
met the stream again, where beyond there were flat meadows, Roper's meadows. The Ravensbrook
went meandering across the middle of these, now between steep banks, and now with wide shallows
at the bends where the cattle waded and drank. Yellow and purple loose-strife and ordinary
rushes grew in clumps along the bank, and now and then a willow. On rare occasions of rapture
one might see a rat cleaning his whiskers at the water's edge. The deep places were rich with
tangled weeds, and in them fishes lurked--to me they were big fishes--water-boatmen and water-beetles
traversed the calm surface of these still deeps; in one pool were yellow lilies and water-soldiers,
and in the shoaly places hovering fleets of small fry basked in the sunshine--to vanish in
a flash at one's shadow. In one place, too, were Rapids, where the stream woke with a start
from a dreamless brooding into foaming panic and babbled and hastened. Well do I remember that
half-mile of rivulet; all other rivers and cascades have their reference to it for me. And
after I was eleven, and before we left Bromstead, all the delight and beauty of it was destroyed.

The volume of its water decreased abruptly--I suppose the new drainage works that linked us
up with Beckington, and made me first acquainted with the geological quality of the London
clay, had to do with that--until only a weak uncleansing trickle remained. That at first did
not strike me as a misfortune. An adventurous small boy might walk dryshod in places hitherto
inaccessible. But hard upon that came the pegs, the planks and carts and devastation. Roper's
meadows, being no longer in fear of floods, were now to be slashed out into parallelograms
of untidy road, and built upon with rows of working-class cottages. The roads came,--horribly;
the houses followed. They seemed to rise in the night. People moved into them as soon as the
roofs were on, mostly workmen and their young wives, and already in a year some of these raw
houses stood empty again from defaulting tenants, with windows broken and wood-work warping
and rotting. The Ravensbrook became a dump for old iron, rusty cans, abandoned boots and the
like, and was a river only when unusual rains filled it for a day or so with an inky flood
of surface water....

That indeed was my most striking perception in the growth of Bromstead. The Ravensbrook had
been important to my imaginative life; that way had always been my first choice in all my walks
with my mother, and its rapid swamping by the new urban growth made it indicative of all the
other things that had happened just before my time, or were still, at a less dramatic pace,
happening. I realised that building was the enemy. I began to understand why in every direction
out of Bromstead one walked past scaffold-poles into litter, why fragments of broken brick
and cinder mingled in every path, and the significance of the universal notice-boards, either
white and new or a year old and torn and battered, promising sites, proffering houses to be
sold or let, abusing and intimidating passers-by for fancied trespass, and protecting rights
of way.

It is difficult to disentangle now what I understood at this time and what I have since come
to understand, but it seems to me that even in those childish days I was acutely aware of an
invading and growing disorder. The serene rhythms of the old established agriculture, I see
now, were everywhere being replaced by cultivation under notice and snatch crops; hedges ceased
to be repaired, and were replaced by cheap iron railings or chunks of corrugated iron; more
and more hoardings sprang up, and contributed more and more to the nomad tribes of filthy paper
scraps that flew before the wind and overspread the country. The outskirts of Bromstead were
a maze of exploitation roads that led nowhere, that ended in tarred fences studded with nails
(I don't remember barbed wire in those days; I think the Zeitgeist did not produce that until
later), and in trespass boards that used vehement language. Broken glass, tin cans, and ashes
and paper abounded. Cheap glass, cheap tin, abundant fuel, and a free untaxed Press had rushed
upon a world quite unprepared to dispose of these blessings when the fulness of enjoyment was past.

I suppose one might have persuaded oneself that all this was but the replacement of an ancient
tranquillity, or at least an ancient balance, by a new order. Only to my eyes, quickened by
my father's intimations, it was manifestly no order at all. It was a multitude of incoordinated
fresh starts, each more sweeping and destructive than the last, and none of them ever really
worked out to a ripe and satisfactory completion. Each left a legacy of products, houses, humanity,
or what not, in its wake. It was a sort of progress that had bolted; it was change out of hand,
and going at an unprecedented pace nowhere in particular.

No, the Victorian epoch was not the dawn of a new era; it was a hasty, trial experiment, a
gigantic experiment of the most slovenly and wasteful kind. I suppose it was necessary; I suppose
all things are necessary. I suppose that before men will discipline themselves to learn and
plan, they must first see in a hundred convincing forms the folly and muddle that come from
headlong, aimless and haphazard methods. The nineteenth century was an age of demonstrations,
some of them very impressive demonstrations, of the powers that have come to mankind, but of
permanent achievement, what will our descendants cherish? It is hard to estimate what grains
of precious metal may not be found in a mud torrent of human production on so large a scale,
but will any one, a hundred years from now, consent to live in the houses the Victorians built,
travel by their roads or railways, value the furnishings they made to live among or esteem,
except for curious or historical reasons, their prevalent art and the clipped and limited literature
that satisfied their souls?

That age which bore me was indeed a world full of restricted and undisciplined people, overtaken
by power, by possessions and great new freedoms, and unable to make any civilised use of them
whatever; stricken now by this idea and now by that, tempted first by one possession and then
another to ill-considered attempts; it was my father's exploitation of his villa gardens on
the wholesale level. The whole of Bromstead as I remember it, and as I saw it last--it is a
year ago now--is a dull useless boiling-up of human activities, an immense clustering of futilities.
It is as unfinished as ever; the builders' roads still run out and end in mid-field in their
old fashion; the various enterprises jumble in the same hopeless contradiction, if anything
intensified. Pretentious villas jostle slums, and public-house and tin tabernacle glower at
one another across the cat-haunted lot that intervenes. Roper's meadows are now quite frankly
a slum; back doors and sculleries gape towards the railway, their yards are hung with tattered
washing unashamed; and there seem to be more boards by the railway every time I pass, advertising
pills and pickles, tonics and condiments, and suchlike solicitudes of a people with no natural
health nor appetite left in them....

Well, we have to do better. Failure is not failure nor waste wasted if it sweeps away illusion
and lights the road to a plan.

6

Chaotic indiscipline, ill-adjusted effort, spasmodic aims, these give the quality of all my
Bromstead memories. The crowning one of them all rises to desolating tragedy. I remember now
the wan spring sunshine of that Sunday morning, the stiff feeling of best clothes and aggressive
cleanliness and formality, when I and my mother returned from church to find my father dead.
He had been pruning the grape vine. He had never had a ladder long enough to reach the sill
of the third-floor windows--at house-painting times he had borrowed one from the plumber who
mixed his paint--and he had in his own happy-go-lucky way contrived a combination of the garden
fruit ladder with a battered kitchen table that served all sorts of odd purposes in an outhouse.
He had stayed up this arrangement by means of the garden roller, and the roller had at the
critical moment--rolled. He was lying close by the garden door with his head queerly bent back
against a broken and twisted rainwater pipe, an expression of pacific contentment on his face,
a bamboo curtain rod with a tableknife tied to end of it, still gripped in his hand. We had
been rapping for some time at the front door unable to make him hear, and then we came round
by the door in the side trellis into the garden and so discovered him.

"Arthur!" I remember my mother crying with the strangest break in her voice, "What are you
doing there? Arthur! And--SUNDAY!"

I was coming behind her, musing remotely, when the quality of her voice roused me. She stood
as if she could not go near him. He had always puzzled her so, he and his ways, and this seemed
only another enigma. Then the truth dawned on her, she shrieked as if afraid of him, ran a
dozen steps back towards the trellis door and stopped and clasped her ineffectual gloved hands,
leaving me staring blankly, too astonished for feeling, at the carelessly flung limbs.

The same idea came to me also. I ran to her. "Mother!" I cried, pale to the depths of my spirit,
"IS HE DEAD?"

I had been thinking two minutes before of the cold fruit pie that glorified our Sunday dinner-table,
and how I might perhaps get into the tree at the end of the garden to read in the afternoon.
Now an immense fact had come down like a curtain and blotted out all my childish world. My
father was lying dead before my eyes.... I perceived that my mother was helpless and that things
must be done.

"Mother!" I said, "we must get Doctor Beaseley,--and carry him indoors."

CHAPTER THE THIRD ~~ SCHOLASTIC

1

My formal education began in a small preparatory school in Bromstead. I went there as a day
boy. The charge for my instruction was mainly set off by the periodic visits of my father with
a large bag of battered fossils to lecture to us upon geology. I was one of those fortunate
youngsters who take readily to school work, I had a good memory, versatile interests and a
considerable appetite for commendation, and when I was barely twelve I got a scholarship at
the City Merchants School and was entrusted with a scholar's railway season ticket to Victoria.
After my father's death a large and very animated and solidly built uncle in tweeds from Staffordshire,
Uncle Minter, my mother's sister's husband, with a remarkable accent and remarkable vowel sounds,
who had plunged into the Bromstead home once or twice for the night but who was otherwise unknown
to me, came on the scene, sold off the three gaunt houses with the utmost gusto, invested the
proceeds and my father's life insurance money, and got us into a small villa at Penge within
sight of that immense facade of glass and iron, the Crystal Palace. Then he retired in a mood
of good-natured contempt to his native habitat again. We stayed at Penge until my mother's death.

School became a large part of the world to me, absorbing my time and interest, and I never
acquired that detailed and intimate knowledge of Penge and the hilly villadom round about,
that I have of the town and outskirts of Bromstead.

It was a district of very much the same character, but it was more completely urbanised and
nearer to the centre of things; there were the same unfinished roads, the same occasional disconcerted
hedges and trees, the same butcher's horse grazing under a builder's notice-board, the same
incidental lapses into slum. The Crystal Palace grounds cut off a large part of my walking
radius to the west with impassable fences and forbiddingly expensive turnstiles, but it added
to the ordinary spectacle of meteorology a great variety of gratuitous fireworks which banged
and flared away of a night after supper and drew me abroad to see them better. Such walks as
I took, to Croydon, Wembledon, West Wickham and Greenwich, impressed upon me the interminable
extent of London's residential suburbs; mile after mile one went, between houses, villas, rows
of cottages, streets of shops, under railway arches, over railway bridges. I have forgotten
the detailed local characteristics--if there were any--of much of that region altogether. I
was only there two years, and half my perambulations occurred at dusk or after dark. But with
Penge I associate my first realisations of the wonder and beauty of twilight and night, the
effect of dark walls reflecting lamplight, and the mystery of blue haze-veiled hillsides of
houses, the glare of shops by night, the glowing steam and streaming sparks of railway trains
and railway signals lit up in the darkness. My first rambles in the evening occurred at Penge--I
was becoming a big and independent-spirited boy--and I began my experience of smoking during
these twilight prowls with the threepenny packets of American cigarettes then just appearing
in the world.

My life centred upon the City Merchants School. Usually I caught the eight-eighteen for Victoria,
I had a midday meal and tea; four nights a week I stayed for preparation, and often I was not
back home again until within an hour of my bedtime. I spent my half holidays at school in order
to play cricket and football. This, and a pretty voracious appetite for miscellaneous reading
which was fostered by the Penge Middleton Library, did not leave me much leisure for local
topography. On Sundays also I sang in the choir at St. Martin's Church, and my mother did not
like me to walk out alone on the Sabbath afternoon, she herself slumbered, so that I wrote
or read at home. I must confess I was at home as little as I could contrive.

Home, after my father's death, had become a very quiet and uneventful place indeed. My mother
had either an unimaginative temperament or her mind was greatly occupied with private religious
solicitudes, and I remember her talking to me but little, and that usually upon topics I was
anxious to evade. I had developed my own view about low-Church theology long before my father's
death, and my meditation upon that event had finished my secret estrangement from my mother's
faith. My reason would not permit even a remote chance of his being in hell, he was so manifestly
not evil, and this religion would not permit him a remote chance of being out yet. When I was
a little boy my mother had taught me to read and write and pray and had done many things for
me, indeed she persisted in washing me and even in making my clothes until I rebelled against
these things as indignities. But our minds parted very soon. She never began to understand
the mental processes of my play, she never interested herself in my school life and work, she
could not understand things I said; and she came, I think, quite insensibly to regard me with
something of the same hopeless perplexity she had felt towards my father.

Him she must have wedded under considerable delusions. I do not think he deceived her, indeed,
nor do I suspect him of mercenariness in their union; but no doubt he played up to her requirements
in the half ingenuous way that was and still is the quality of most wooing, and presented himself
as a very brisk and orthodox young man. I wonder why nearly all love-making has to be fraudulent.
Afterwards he must have disappointed her cruelly by letting one aspect after another of his
careless, sceptical, experimental temperament appear. Her mind was fixed and definite, she
embodied all that confidence in church and decorum and the assurances of the pulpit which was
characteristic of the large mass of the English people--for after all, the rather low-Church
section WAS the largest single mass--in early Victorian times. She had dreams, I suspect, of
going to church with him side by side; she in a little poke bonnet and a large flounced crinoline,
all mauve and magenta and starched under a little lace-trimmed parasol, and he in a tall silk
hat and peg-top trousers and a roll-collar coat, and looking rather like the Prince Consort,--white
angels almost visibly raining benedictions on their amiable progress. Perhaps she dreamt gently
of much-belaced babies and an interestingly pious (but not too dissenting or fanatical) little
girl or boy or so, also angel-haunted. And I think, too, she must have seen herself ruling
a seemly "home of taste," with a vivarium in the conservatory that opened out of the drawing-room,
or again, making preserves in the kitchen. My father's science-teaching, his diagrams of disembowelled
humanity, his pictures of prehistoric beasts that contradicted the Flood, his disposition towards
soft shirts and loose tweed suits, his inability to use a clothes brush, his spasmodic reading
fits and his bulldog pipes, must have jarred cruelly with her rather unintelligent anticipations.
His wild moments of violent temper when he would swear and smash things, absurd almost lovable
storms that passed like summer thunder, must have been starkly dreadful to her. She was constitutionally
inadaptable, and certainly made no attempt to understand or tolerate these outbreaks. She tried
them by her standards, and by her standards they were wrong. Her standards hid him from her.
The blazing things he said rankled in her mind unforgettably.

As I remember them together they chafed constantly. Her attitude to nearly all his moods and
all his enterprises was a sceptical disapproval. She treated him as something that belonged
to me and not to her. "YOUR father," she used to call him, as though I had got him for her.

She had married late and she had, I think, become mentally self-subsisting before her marriage.
Even in those Herne Hill days I used to wonder what was going on in her mind, and I find that
old speculative curiosity return as I write this. She took a considerable interest in the housework
that our generally servantless condition put upon her--she used to have a charwoman in two
or three times a week--but she did not do it with any great skill. She covered most of our
furniture with flouncey ill-fitting covers, and she cooked plainly and without very much judgment.
The Penge house, as it contained nearly all our Bromstead things, was crowded with furniture,
and is chiefly associated in my mind with the smell of turpentine, a condiment she used very
freely upon the veneered mahogany pieces. My mother had an equal dread of "blacks" by day and
the "night air," so that our brightly clean windows were rarely open.

She took a morning paper, and she would open it and glance at the headlines, but she did not
read it until the afternoon and then, I think, she was interested only in the more violent
crimes, and in railway and mine disasters and in the minutest domesticities of the Royal Family.
Most of the books at home were my father's, and I do not think she opened any of them. She
had one or two volumes that dated from her own youth, and she tried in vain to interest me
in them; there was Miss Strickland's QUEENS OF ENGLAND, a book I remember with particular animosity,
and QUEECHY and the WIDE WIDE WORLD. She made these books of hers into a class apart by sewing
outer covers upon them of calico and figured muslin. To me in these habiliments they seemed
not so much books as confederated old ladies.

My mother was also very punctual with her religious duties, and rejoiced to watch me in the choir.

On winter evenings she occupied an armchair on the other side of the table at which I sat,
head on hand reading, and she would be darning stockings or socks or the like. We achieved
an effect of rather stuffy comfortableness that was soporific, and in a passive way I think
she found these among her happy times. On such occasions she was wont to put her work down
on her knees and fall into a sort of thoughtless musing that would last for long intervals
and rouse my curiosity. For like most young people I could not imagine mental states without
definite forms.

She carried on a correspondence with a number of cousins and friends, writing letters in a
slanting Italian hand and dealing mainly with births, marriages and deaths, business starts
(in the vaguest terms) and the distresses of bankruptcy.

And yet, you know, she did have a curious intimate life of her own that I suspected nothing
of at the time, that only now becomes credible to me. She kept a diary that is still in my
possession, a diary of fragmentary entries in a miscellaneous collection of pocket books. She
put down the texts of the sermons she heard, and queer stiff little comments on casual visitors,--"Miss
G. and much noisy shrieking talk about games and such frivolities and CROQUAY. A. delighted
and VERY ATTENTIVE." Such little human entries abound. She had an odd way of never writing
a name, only an initial; my father is always "A.," and I am always "D." It is manifest she
followed the domestic events in the life of the Princess of Wales, who is now Queen Mother,
with peculiar interest and sympathy. "Pray G. all may be well," she writes in one such crisis.

But there are things about myself that I still find too poignant to tell easily, certain painful
and clumsy circumstances of my birth in very great detail, the distresses of my infantile ailments.
Then later I find such things as this: "Heard D. s----." The "s" is evidently "swear "--"G.
bless and keep my boy from evil." And again, with the thin handwriting shaken by distress:
"D. would not go to church, and hardened his heart and said wicked infidel things, much disrespect
of the clergy. The anthem is tiresome!!! That men should set up to be wiser than their maker!!!"
Then trebly underlined: "I FEAR HIS FATHER'S TEACHING." Dreadful little tangle of misapprehensions
and false judgments! More comforting for me to read, "D. very kind and good. He grows more
thoughtful every day." I suspect myself of forgotten hypocrisies.

At just one point my mother's papers seem to dip deeper. I think the death of my father must
have stirred her for the first time for many years to think for herself. Even she could not
go on living in any peace at all, believing that he had indeed been flung headlong into hell.
Of this gnawing solicitude she never spoke to me, never, and for her diary also she could find
no phrases. But on a loose half-sheet of notepaper between its pages I find this passage that
follows, written very carefully. I do not know whose lines they are nor how she came upon them.
They run:--

     "And if there be no meeting past the grave;
      If all is darkness, silence, yet 'tis rest.
      Be not afraid ye waiting hearts that weep,
      For God still giveth His beloved sleep,
      And if an endless sleep He wills, so best."

That scrap of verse amazed me when I read it. I could even wonder if my mother really grasped
the import of what she had copied out. It affected me as if a stone-deaf person had suddenly
turned and joined in a whispered conversation. It set me thinking how far a mind in its general
effect quite hopelessly limited, might range. After that I went through all her diaries, trying
to find something more than a conventional term of tenderness for my father. But I found nothing.
And yet somehow there grew upon me the realisation that there had been love.... Her love for
me, on the other hand, was abundantly expressed.

I knew nothing of that secret life of feeling at the time; such expression as it found was
all beyond my schoolboy range. I did not know when I pleased her and I did not know when I
distressed her. Chiefly I was aware of my mother as rather dull company, as a mind thorny with
irrational conclusions and incapable of explication, as one believing quite wilfully and irritatingly
in impossible things. So I suppose it had to be; life was coming to me in new forms and with
new requirements. It was essential to our situation that we should fail to understand. After
this space of years I have come to realisations and attitudes that dissolve my estrangement
from her, I can pierce these barriers, I can see her and feel her as a loving and feeling and
desiring and muddle-headed person. There are times when I would have her alive again, if only
that I might be kind to her for a little while and give her some return for the narrow intense
affection, the tender desires, she evidently lavished so abundantly on me. But then again I
ask how I could make that return? And I realise the futility of such dreaming. Her demand was
rigid, and to meet it I should need to act and lie.

So she whose blood fed me, whose body made me, lies in my memory as I saw her last, fixed,
still, infinitely intimate, infinitely remote....

My own case with my mother, however, does not awaken the same regret I feel when I think of
how she misjudged and irked my father, and turned his weaknesses into thorns for her own tormenting.
I wish I could look back without that little twinge to two people who were both in their different
quality so good. But goodness that is narrow is a pedestrian and ineffectual goodness. Her
attitude to my father seems to me one of the essentially tragic things that have come to me
personally, one of those things that nothing can transfigure, that REMAIN sorrowful, that I
cannot soothe with any explanation, for as I remember him he was indeed the most lovable of
weak spasmodic men. But my mother had been trained in a hard and narrow system that made evil
out of many things not in the least evil, and inculcated neither kindliness nor charity. All
their estrangement followed from that.

These cramping cults do indeed take an enormous toll of human love and happiness, and not only
that but what we Machiavellians must needs consider, they make frightful breaches in human
solidarity. I suppose I am a deeply religious man, as men of my quality go, but I hate more
and more, as I grow older, the shadow of intolerance cast by religious organisations. All my
life has been darkened by irrational intolerance, by arbitrary irrational prohibitions and
exclusions. Mahometanism with its fierce proselytism, has, I suppose, the blackest record of
uncharitableness, but most of the Christian sects are tainted, tainted to a degree beyond any
of the anterior paganisms, with this same hateful quality. It is their exclusive claim that
sends them wrong, the vain ambition that inspires them all to teach a uniform one-sided God
and be the one and only gateway to salvation. Deprecation of all outside the household of faith,
an organised undervaluation of heretical goodness and lovableness, follows, necessarily. Every
petty difference is exaggerated to the quality of a saving grace or a damning defect. Elaborate
precautions are taken to shield the believer's mind against broad or amiable suggestions; the
faithful are deterred by dark allusions, by sinister warnings, from books, from theatres, from
worldly conversation, from all the kindly instruments that mingle human sympathy. For only
by isolating its flock can the organisation survive.

Every month there came to my mother a little magazine called, if I remember rightly, the HOME
CHURCHMAN, with the combined authority of print and clerical commendation. It was the most
evil thing that ever came into the house, a very devil, a thin little pamphlet with one woodcut
illustration on the front page of each number; now the uninviting visage of some exponent of
the real and only doctrine and attitudes, now some coral strand in act of welcoming the missionaries
of God's mysterious preferences, now a new church in the Victorian Gothic. The vile rag it
was! A score of vices that shun the policeman have nothing of its subtle wickedness. It was
an outrage upon the natural kindliness of men. The contents were all admirably adjusted to
keep a spirit in prison. Their force of sustained suggestion was tremendous. There would be
dreadful intimations of the swift retribution that fell upon individuals for Sabbath-breaking,
and upon nations for weakening towards Ritualism, or treating Roman Catholics as tolerable
human beings; there would be great rejoicings over the conversion of alleged Jews, and terrible
descriptions of the death-beds of prominent infidels with boldly invented last words,--the
most unscrupulous lying; there would be the appallingly edifying careers of "early piety" lusciously
described, or stories of condemned criminals who traced their final ruin unerringly to early
laxities of the kind that leads people to give up subscribing to the HOME CHURCHMAN.

Every month that evil spirit brought about a slump in our mutual love. My mother used to read
the thing and become depressed and anxious for my spiritual welfare, used to be stirred to
unintelligent pestering....

2

A few years ago I met the editor of this same HOME CHURCHMAN. It was at one of the weekly dinners
of that Fleet Street dining club, the Blackfriars.

I heard the paper's name with a queer little shock and surveyed the man with interest. No doubt
he was only a successor of the purveyor of discords who darkened my boyhood. It was amazing
to find an influence so terrible embodied in a creature so palpably petty. He was seated some
way down a table at right angles to the one at which I sat, a man of mean appearance with a
greyish complexion, thin, with a square nose, a heavy wiry moustache and a big Adam's apple
sticking out between the wings of his collar. He ate with considerable appetite and unconcealed
relish, and as his jaw was underhung, he chummed and made the moustache wave like reeds in
the swell of a steamer. It gave him a conscientious look. After dinner he a little forced himself
upon me. At that time, though the shadow of my scandal was already upon me, I still seemed
to be shaping for great successes, and he was glad to be in conversation with me and anxious
to intimate political sympathy and support. I tried to make him talk of the HOME CHURCHMAN
and the kindred publications he ran, but he was manifestly ashamed of his job so far as I was
concerned.

"One wants," he said, pitching himself as he supposed in my key, "to put constructive ideas
into our readers, but they are narrow, you know, very narrow. Very." He made his moustache
and lips express judicious regret. "One has to consider them carefully, one has to respect
their attitudes. One dare not go too far with them. One has to feel one's way."

He chummed and the moustache bristled.

A hireling, beyond question, catering for a demand. I gathered there was a home in Tufnell
Park, and three boys to be fed and clothed and educated....

I had the curiosity to buy a copy of his magazine afterwards, and it seemed much the same sort
of thing that had worried my mother in my boyhood. There was the usual Christian hero, this
time with mutton-chop whiskers and a long bare upper lip. The Jesuits, it seemed, were still
hard at it, and Heaven frightfully upset about the Sunday opening of museums and the falling
birth-rate, and as touchy and vindictive as ever. There were two vigorous paragraphs upon the
utter damnableness of the Rev. R. J. Campbell, a contagious damnableness I gathered, one wasn't
safe within a mile of Holborn Viaduct, and a foul-mouthed attack on poor little Wilkins the
novelist--who was being baited by the moralists at that time for making one of his big women
characters, not being in holy wedlock, desire a baby and say so....

The broadening of human thought is a slow and complex process. We do go on, we do get on. But
when one thinks that people are living and dying now, quarrelling and sulking, misled and misunderstanding,
vaguely fearful, condemning and thwarting one another in the close darknesses of these narrow
cults--Oh, God! one wants a gale out of Heaven, one wants a great wind from the sea!

3

While I lived at Penge two little things happened to me, trivial in themselves and yet in their
quality profoundly significant. They had this in common, that they pierced the texture of the
life I was quietly taking for granted and let me see through it into realities--realities I
had indeed known about before but never realised. Each of these experiences left me with a
sense of shock, with all the values in my life perplexingly altered, attempting readjustment.
One of these disturbing and illuminating events was that I was robbed of a new pocket-knife
and the other that I fell in love. It was altogether surprising to me to be robbed. You see,
as an only child I had always been fairly well looked after and protected, and the result was
an amazing confidence in the practical goodness of the people one met in the world. I knew
there were robbers in the world, just as I knew there were tigers; that I was ever likely to
meet robber or tiger face to face seemed equally impossible.

The knife as I remember it was a particularly jolly one with all sorts of instruments in it,
tweezers and a thing for getting a stone out of the hoof of a horse, and a corkscrew; it had
cost me a carefully accumulated half-crown, and amounted indeed to a new experience in knives.
I had had it for two or three days, and then one afternoon I dropped it through a hole in my
pocket on a footpath crossing a field between Penge and Anerley. I heard it fall in the way
one does without at the time appreciating what had happened, then, later, before I got home,
when my hand wandered into my pocket to embrace the still dear new possession I found it gone,
and instantly that memory of something hitting the ground sprang up into consciousness. I went
back and commenced a search. Almost immediately I was accosted by the leader of a little gang
of four or five extremely dirty and ragged boys of assorted sizes and slouching carriage who
were coming from the Anerley direction.

"Lost anythink, Matey?" said he.

I explained.

"'E's dropped 'is knife," said my interlocutor, and joined in the search.

"What sort of 'andle was it, Matey?" said a small white-faced sniffing boy in a big bowler hat.

I supplied the information. His sharp little face scrutinised the ground about us.

"GOT it," he said, and pounced.

"Give it 'ere," said the big boy hoarsely, and secured it.

I walked towards him serenely confident that he would hand it over to me, and that all was
for the best in the best of all possible worlds.

"No bloomin' fear!" he said, regarding me obliquely. "Oo said it was your knife?"

Remarkable doubts assailed me. "Of course it's my knife," I said. The other boys gathered round me.

"This ain't your knife," said the big boy, and spat casually.

"I dropped it just now."

"Findin's keepin's, I believe," said the big boy.

"Nonsense," I said. "Give me my knife."

"'Ow many blades it got?"

"Three."

"And what sort of 'andle?"

"Bone."

"Got a corkscrew like?"

"Yes."

"Ah! This ain't your knife no'ow. See?"

He made no offer to show it to me. My breath went.

"Look here!" I said. "I saw that kid pick it up. It IS my knife."

"Rot!" said the big boy, and slowly, deliberately put my knife into his trouser pocket.

I braced my soul for battle. All civilisation was behind me, but I doubt if it kept the colour
in my face. I buttoned my jacket and clenched my fists and advanced on my antagonist--he had,
I suppose, the advantage of two years of age and three inches of height. "Hand over that knife,"
I said.

Then one of the smallest of the band assailed me with extraordinary vigour and swiftness from
behind, had an arm round my neck and a knee in my back before I had the slightest intimation
of attack, and so got me down. "I got 'im, Bill," squeaked this amazing little ruffian. My
nose was flattened by a dirty hand, and as I struck out and hit something like sacking, some
one kicked my elbow. Two or three seemed to be at me at the same time. Then I rolled over and
sat up to discover them all making off, a ragged flight, footballing my cap, my City Merchants'
cap, amongst them. I leapt to my feet in a passion of indignation and pursued them.

But I did not overtake them. We are beings of mixed composition, and I doubt if mine was a
single-minded pursuit. I knew that honour required me to pursue, and I had a vivid impression
of having just been down in the dust with a very wiry and active and dirty little antagonist
of disagreeable odour and incredible and incalculable unscrupulousness, kneeling on me and
gripping my arm and neck. I wanted of course to be even with him, but also I doubted if catching
him would necessarily involve that. They kicked my cap into the ditch at the end of the field,
and made off compactly along a cinder lane while I turned aside to recover my dishonoured headdress.
As I knocked the dust out of that and out of my jacket, and brushed my knees and readjusted
my very crumpled collar, I tried to focus this startling occurrence in my mind.

I had vague ideas of going to a policeman or of complaining at a police station, but some boyish
instinct against informing prevented that. No doubt I entertained ideas of vindictive pursuit
and murderous reprisals. And I was acutely enraged whenever I thought of my knife. The thing
indeed rankled in my mind for weeks and weeks, and altered all the flavour of my world for
me. It was the first time I glimpsed the simple brute violence that lurks and peeps beneath
our civilisation. A certain kindly complacency of attitude towards the palpably lower classes
was qualified for ever.

4

But the other experience was still more cardinal. It was the first clear intimation of a new
motif in life, the sex motif, that was to rise and increase and accumulate power and enrichment
and interweave with and at last dominate all my life.

It was when I was nearly fifteen this happened. It is inseparably connected in my mind with
the dusk of warm September evenings. I never met the girl I loved by daylight, and I have forgotten
her name. It was some insignificant name.

Yet the peculiar quality of the adventure keeps it shining darkly like some deep coloured gem
in the common setting of my memories. It came as something new and strange, something that
did not join on to anything else in my life or connect with any of my thoughts or beliefs or
habits; it was a wonder, a mystery, a discovery about myself, a discovery about the whole world.
Only in after years did sexual feeling lose that isolation and spread itself out to illuminate
and pervade and at last possess the whole broad vision of life.

It was in that phase of an urban youth's development, the phase of the cheap cigarette, that
this thing happened. One evening I came by chance on a number of young people promenading by
the light of a row of shops towards Beckington, and, with all the glory of a glowing cigarette
between my lips, I joined their strolling number. These twilight parades of young people, youngsters
chiefly of the lower middle-class, are one of the odd social developments of the great suburban
growths--unkindly critics, blind to the inner meanings of things, call them, I believe, Monkeys'
Parades--the shop apprentices, the young work girls, the boy clerks and so forth, stirred by
mysterious intimations, spend their first-earned money upon collars and ties, chiffon hats,
smart lace collars, walking-sticks, sunshades or cigarettes, and come valiantly into the vague
transfiguring mingling of gaslight and evening, to walk up and down, to eye meaningly, even
to accost and make friends. It is a queer instinctive revolt from the narrow limited friendless
homes in which so many find themselves, a going out towards something, romance if you will,
beauty, that has suddenly become a need--a need that hitherto has lain dormant and unsuspected.
They promenade.

Vulgar!--it is as vulgar as the spirit that calls the moth abroad in the evening and lights
the body of the glow-worm in the night. I made my way through the throng, a little contemptuously
as became a public schoolboy, my hands in my pockets--none of your cheap canes for me!--and
very careful of the lie of my cigarette upon my lips. And two girls passed me, one a little
taller than the other, with dim warm-tinted faces under clouds of dark hair and with dark eyes
like pools reflecting stars.

I half turned, and the shorter one glanced back at me over her shoulder--I could draw you now
the pose of her cheek and neck and shoulder--and instantly I was as passionately in love with
the girl as I have ever been before or since, as any man ever was with any woman. I turned
about and followed them, I flung away my cigarette ostentatiously and lifted my school cap
and spoke to them.

The girl answered shyly with her dark eyes on my face. What I said and what she said I cannot
remember, but I have little doubt it was something absolutely vapid. It really did not matter;
the thing was we had met. I felt as I think a new-hatched moth must feel when suddenly its
urgent headlong searching brings it in tremulous amazement upon its mate.

We met, covered from each other, with all the nets of civilisation keeping us apart. We walked
side by side.

It led to scarcely more than that. I think we met four or five times altogether, and always
with her nearly silent elder sister on the other side of her. We walked on the last two occasions
arm in arm, furtively caressing each other's hands, we went away from the glare of the shops
into the quiet roads of villadom, and there we whispered instead of talking and looked closely
into one another's warm and shaded face. "Dear," I whispered very daringly, and she answered,
"Dear!" We had a vague sense that we wanted more of that quality of intimacy and more. We wanted
each other as one wants beautiful music again or to breathe again the scent of flowers.

And that is all there was between us. The events are nothing, the thing that matters is the
way in which this experience stabbed through the common stuff of life and left it pierced,
with a light, with a huge new interest shining through the rent.

When I think of it I can recall even now the warm mystery of her face, her lips a little apart,
lips that I never kissed, her soft shadowed throat, and I feel again the sensuous stir of her
proximity....

Those two girls never told me their surname nor let me approach their house. They made me leave
them at the corner of a road of small houses near Penge Station. And quite abruptly, without
any intimation, they vanished and came to the meeting place no more, they vanished as a moth
goes out of a window into the night, and left me possessed of an intolerable want....

The affair pervaded my existence for many weeks. I could not do my work and I could not rest
at home. Night after night I promenaded up and down that Monkeys' Parade full of an unappeasable
desire, with a thwarted sense of something just begun that ought to have gone on. I went backwards
and forwards on the way to the vanishing place, and at last explored the forbidden road that
had swallowed them up. But I never saw her again, except that later she came to me, my symbol
of womanhood, in dreams. How my blood was stirred! I lay awake of nights whispering in the
darkness for her. I prayed for her.

Indeed that girl, who probably forgot the last vestiges of me when her first real kiss came
to her, ruled and haunted me, gave a Queen to my imagination and a texture to all my desires
until I became a man.

I generalised her at last. I suddenly discovered that poetry was about her and that she was
the key to all that had hitherto seemed nonsense about love. I took to reading novels, and
if the heroine could not possibly be like her, dusky and warm and starlike, I put the book
aside....

I hesitate and add here one other confession. I want to tell this thing because it seems to
me we are altogether too restrained and secretive about such matters. The cardinal thing in
life sneaks in to us darkly and shamefully like a thief in the night.

One day during my Cambridge days--it must have been in my first year before I knew Hatherleigh--I
saw in a print-shop window near the Strand an engraving of a girl that reminded me sharply
of Penge and its dusky encounter. It was just a half length of a bare-shouldered, bare-breasted
Oriental with arms akimbo, smiling faintly. I looked at it, went my way, then turned back and
bought it. I felt I must have it. The odd thing is that I was more than a little shamefaced
about it. I did not have it framed and hung in my room open to the criticism of my friends,
but I kept it in the drawer of my writing-table. And I kept that drawer locked for a year.
It speedily merged with and became identified with the dark girl of Penge. That engraving became
in a way my mistress. Often when I had sported my oak and was supposed to be reading, I was
sitting with it before me.

Obeying some instinct I kept the thing very secret indeed. For a time nobody suspected what
was locked in my drawer nor what was locked in me. I seemed as sexless as my world required.

5

These things stabbed through my life, intimations of things above and below and before me.
They had an air of being no more than incidents, interruptions.

The broad substance of my existence at this time was the City Merchants School. Home was a
place where I slept and read, and the mooning explorations of the south-eastern postal district
which occupied the restless evenings and spare days of my vacations mere interstices, giving
glimpses of enigmatical lights and distant spaces between the woven threads of a school-boy's
career. School life began for me every morning at Herne Hill, for there I was joined by three
or four other boys and the rest of the way we went together. Most of the streets and roads
we traversed in our morning's walk from Victoria are still intact, the storms of rebuilding
that have submerged so much of my boyhood's London have passed and left them, and I have revived
the impression of them again and again in recent years as I have clattered dinnerward in a
hansom or hummed along in a motor cab to some engagement. The main gate still looks out with
the same expression of ancient well-proportioned kindliness upon St. Margaret's Close. There
are imposing new science laboratories in Chambers Street indeed, but the old playing fields
are unaltered except for the big electric trams that go droning and spitting blue flashes along
the western boundary. I know Ratten, the new Head, very well, but I have not been inside the
school to see if it has changed at all since I went up to Cambridge.

I took all they put before us very readily as a boy, for I had a mind of vigorous appetite,
but since I have grown mentally to man's estate and developed a more and more comprehensive
view of our national process and our national needs, I am more and more struck by the oddity
of the educational methods pursued, their aimless disconnectedness from the constructive forces
in the community. I suppose if we are to view the public school as anything more than an institution
that has just chanced to happen, we must treat it as having a definite function towards the
general scheme of the nation, as being in a sense designed to take the crude young male of
the more or less responsible class, to correct his harsh egotisms, broaden his outlook, give
him a grasp of the contemporary developments he will presently be called upon to influence
and control, and send him on to the university to be made a leading and ruling social man.
It is easy enough to carp at schoolmasters and set up for an Educational Reformer, I know,
but still it is impossible not to feel how infinitely more effectually--given certain impossibilities
perhaps--the job might be done.

My memory of school has indeed no hint whatever of that quality of elucidation it seems reasonable
to demand from it. Here all about me was London, a vast inexplicable being, a vortex of gigantic
forces, that filled and overwhelmed me with impressions, that stirred my imagination to a perpetual
vague enquiry; and my school not only offered no key to it, but had practically no comment
to make upon it at all. We were within three miles of Westminster and Charing Cross, the government
offices of a fifth of mankind were all within an hour's stroll, great economic changes were
going on under our eyes, now the hoardings flamed with election placards, now the Salvation
Army and now the unemployed came trailing in procession through the winter-grey streets, now
the newspaper placards outside news-shops told of battles in strange places, now of amazing
discoveries, now of sinister crimes, abject squalor and poverty, imperial splendour and luxury,
Buckingham Palace, Rotten Row, Mayfair, the slums of Pimlico, garbage-littered streets of bawling
costermongers, the inky silver of the barge-laden Thames--such was the background of our days.
We went across St. Margaret's Close and through the school gate into a quiet puerile world
apart from all these things. We joined in the earnest acquirement of all that was necessary
for Greek epigrams and Latin verse, and for the rest played games. We dipped down into something
clear and elegantly proportioned and time-worn and for all its high resolve of stalwart virility
a little feeble, like our blackened and decayed portals by Inigo Jones.

Within, we were taught as the chief subjects of instruction, Latin and Greek. We were taught
very badly because the men who taught us did not habitually use either of these languages,
nobody uses them any more now except perhaps for the Latin of a few Levantine monasteries.
At the utmost our men read them. We were taught these languages because long ago Latin had
been the language of civilisation; the one way of escape from the narrow and localised life
had lain in those days through Latin, and afterwards Greek had come in as the vehicle of a
flood of new and amazing ideas. Once these two languages had been the sole means of initiation
to the detached criticism and partial comprehension of the world. I can imagine the fierce
zeal of our first Heads, Gardener and Roper, teaching Greek like passionate missionaries, as
a progressive Chinaman might teach English to the boys of Pekin, clumsily, impatiently, with
rod and harsh urgency, but sincerely, patriotically, because they felt that behind it lay revelations,
the irresistible stimulus to a new phase of history. That was long ago. A new great world,
a vaster Imperialism had arisen about the school, had assimilated all these amazing and incredible
ideas, had gone on to new and yet more amazing developments of its own. But the City Merchants
School still made the substance of its teaching Latin and Greek, still, with no thought of
rotating crops, sowed in a dream amidst the harvesting.

There is no fierceness left in the teaching now. Just after I went up to Trinity, Gates, our
Head, wrote a review article in defence of our curriculum. In this, among other indiscretions,
he asserted that it was impossible to write good English without an illuminating knowledge
of the classic tongues, and he split an infinitive and failed to button up a sentence in saying
so. His main argument conceded every objection a reasonable person could make to the City Merchants'
curriculum. He admitted that translation had now placed all the wisdom of the past at a common
man's disposal, that scarcely a field of endeavour remained in which modern work had not long
since passed beyond the ancient achievement. He disclaimed any utility. But there was, he said,
a peculiar magic in these grammatical exercises no other subjects of instruction possessed.
Nothing else provided the same strengthening and orderly discipline for the mind.

He said that, knowing the Senior Classics he did, himself a Senior Classic!

Yet in a dim confused way I think he was making out a case. In schools as we knew them, and
with the sort of assistant available, the sort of assistant who has been trained entirely on
the old lines, he could see no other teaching so effectual in developing attention, restraint,
sustained constructive effort and various yet systematic adjustment. And that was as far as
his imagination could go.

It is infinitely easier to begin organised human affairs than end them; the curriculum and
the social organisation of the English public school are the crowning instances of that. They
go on because they have begun. Schools are not only immortal institutions but reproductive
ones. Our founder, Jabez Arvon, knew nothing, I am sure, of Gates' pedagogic values and would,
I feel certain, have dealt with them disrespectfully. But public schools and university colleges
sprang into existence correlated, the scholars went on to the universities and came back to
teach the schools, to teach as they themselves had been taught, before they had ever made any
real use of the teaching; the crowd of boys herded together, a crowd perpetually renewed and
unbrokenly the same, adjusted itself by means of spontaneously developed institutions. In a
century, by its very success, this revolutionary innovation of Renascence public schools had
become an immense tradition woven closely into the fabric of the national life. Intelligent
and powerful people ceased to talk Latin or read Greek, they had got what was wanted, but that
only left the schoolmaster the freer to elaborate his point. Since most men of any importance
or influence in the country had been through the mill, it was naturally a little difficult
to persuade them that it was not quite the best and most ennobling mill the wit of man could
devise. And, moreover, they did not want their children made strange to them. There was all
the machinery and all the men needed to teach the old subjects, and none to teach whatever
new the critic might propose. Such science instruction as my father gave seemed indeed the
uninviting alternative to the classical grind. It was certainly an altogether inferior instrument
at that time.

So it was I occupied my mind with the exact study of dead languages for seven long years. It
was the strangest of detachments. We would sit under the desk of such a master as Topham like
creatures who had fallen into an enchanted pit, and he would do his considerable best to work
us up to enthusiasm for, let us say, a Greek play. If we flagged he would lash himself to revive
us. He would walk about the class-room mouthing great lines in a rich roar, and asking us with
a flushed face and shining eyes if it was not "GLORIOUS." The very sight of Greek letters brings
back to me the dingy, faded, ink-splashed quality of our class-room, the banging of books,
Topham's disordered hair, the sheen of his alpaca gown, his deep unmusical intonations and
the wide striding of his creaking boots. Glorious! And being plastic human beings we would
consent that it was glorious, and some of us even achieved an answering reverberation and a
sympathetic flush. I at times responded freely. We all accepted from him unquestioningly that
these melodies, these strange sounds, exceeded any possibility of beauty that lay in the Gothic
intricacy, the splash and glitter, the jar and recovery, the stabbing lights, the heights and
broad distances of our English tongue. That indeed was the chief sin of him. It was not that
he was for Greek and Latin, but that he was fiercely against every beauty that was neither
classic nor deferred to classical canons.

And what exactly did we make of it, we seniors who understood it best? We visualised dimly
through that dust and the grammatical difficulties, the spectacle of the chorus chanting grotesquely,
helping out protagonist and antagonist, masked and buskined, with the telling of incomprehensible
parricides, of inexplicable incest, of gods faded beyond symbolism, of that Relentless Law
we did not believe in for a moment, that no modern western European can believe in. We thought
of the characters in the unconvincing wigs and costumes of our school performance. No Gilbert
Murray had come as yet to touch these things to life again. It was like the ghost of an antiquarian's
toy theatre, a ghost that crumbled and condensed into a gritty dust of construing as one looked
at it.

Marks, shindies, prayers and punishments, all flavoured with the leathery stuffiness of time-worn
Big Hall....

And then out one would come through our grey old gate into the evening light and the spectacle
of London hurrying like a cataract, London in black and brown and blue and gleaming silver,
roaring like the very loom of Time. We came out into the new world no teacher has yet had the
power and courage to grasp and expound. Life and death sang all about one, joys and fears on
such a scale, in such an intricacy as never Greek nor Roman knew. The interminable procession
of horse omnibuses went lumbering past, bearing countless people we knew not whence, we knew
not whither. Hansoms clattered, foot passengers jostled one, a thousand appeals of shop and
boarding caught the eye. The multi-coloured lights of window and street mingled with the warm
glow of the declining day under the softly flushing London skies; the ever-changing placards,
the shouting news-vendors, told of a kaleidoscopic drama all about the globe. One did not realise
what had happened to us, but the voice of Topham was suddenly drowned and lost, he and his
minute, remote gesticulations....

That submerged and isolated curriculum did not even join on to living interests where it might
have done so. We were left absolutely to the hints of the newspapers, to casual political speeches,
to the cartoons of the comic papers or a chance reading of some Socialist pamphlet for any
general ideas whatever about the huge swirling world process in which we found ourselves. I
always look back with particular exasperation to the cessation of our modern history at the
year 1815. There it pulled up abruptly, as though it had come upon something indelicate....

But, after all, what would Topham or Flack have made of the huge adjustments of the nineteenth
century? Flack was the chief cricketer on the staff; he belonged to that great cult which pretends
that the place of this or that county in the struggle for the championship is a matter of supreme
importance to boys. He obliged us to affect a passionate interest in the progress of county
matches, to work up unnatural enthusiasms. What a fuss there would be when some well-trained
boy, panting as if from Marathon, appeared with an evening paper! "I say, you chaps, Middlesex
all out for a hundred and five!"

Under Flack's pressure I became, I confess, a cricket humbug of the first class. I applied
myself industriously year by year to mastering scores and averages; I pretended that Lords
or the Oval were the places nearest Paradise for me. (I never went to either.) Through a slight
mistake about the county boundary I adopted Surrey for my loyalty, though as a matter of fact
we were by some five hundred yards or so in Kent. It did quite as well for my purposes. I bowled
rather straight and fast, and spent endless hours acquiring the skill to bowl Flack out. He
was a bat in the Corinthian style, rich and voluminous, and succumbed very easily to a low
shooter or an unexpected Yorker, but usually he was caught early by long leg. The difficulty
was to bowl him before he got caught. He loved to lift a ball to leg. After one had clean bowled
him at the practice nets one deliberately gave him a ball to leg just to make him feel nice again.

Flack went about a world of marvels dreaming of leg hits. He has been observed, going across
the Park on his way to his highly respectable club in Piccadilly, to break from profound musings
into a strange brief dance that ended with an imaginary swipe with his umbrella, a roofer,
over the trees towards Buckingham Palace. The hit accomplished, Flack resumed his way.

Inadequately instructed foreigners would pass him in terror, needlessly alert.

6

These schoolmasters move through my memory as always a little distant and more than a little
incomprehensible. Except when they wore flannels, I saw them almost always in old college caps
and gowns, a uniform which greatly increased their detachment from the world of actual men.
Gates, the head, was a lean loose-limbed man, rather stupid I discovered when I reached the
Sixth and came into contact with him, but honest, simple and very eager to be liberal-minded.
He was bald, with an almost conical baldness, with a grizzled pointed beard, small featured
and, under the stresses of a Zeitgeist that demanded liberality, with an expression of puzzled
but resolute resistance to his own unalterable opinions. He made a tall dignified figure in
his gown. In my junior days he spoke to me only three or four times, and then he annoyed me
by giving me a wrong surname; it was a sore point because I was an outsider and not one of
the old school families, the Shoesmiths, the Naylors, the Marklows, the Tophams, the Pevises
and suchlike, who came generation after generation. I recall him most vividly against the background
of faded brown book-backs in the old library in which we less destructive seniors were trusted
to work, with the light from the stained-glass window falling in coloured patches on his face.
It gave him the appearance of having no colour of his own. He had a habit of scratching the
beard on his cheek as he talked, and he used to come and consult us about things and invariably
do as we said. That, in his phraseology, was "maintaining the traditions of the school."

He had indeed an effect not of a man directing a school, but of a man captured and directed
by a school. Dead and gone Elizabethans had begotten a monster that could carry him about in
its mouth.

Yet being a man, as I say, with his hair a little stirred by a Zeitgeist that made for change,
Gates did at times display a disposition towards developments. City Merchants had no modern
side, and utilitarian spirits were carping in the PALL MALL GAZETTE and elsewhere at the omissions
from our curriculum, and particularly at our want of German. Moreover, four classes still worked
together with much clashing and uproar in the old Big Hall that had once held in a common tumult
the entire school. Gates used to come and talk to us older fellows about these things.

"I don't wish to innovate unduly," he used to say. "But we ought to get in some German, you
know,--for those who like it. The army men will be wanting it some of these days."

He referred to the organisation of regular evening preparation for the lower boys in Big Hall
as a "revolutionary change," but he achieved it, and he declared he began the replacement of
the hacked wooden tables, at which the boys had worked since Tudor days, by sloping desks with
safety inkpots and scientifically adjustable seats, "with grave misgivings." And though he
never birched a boy in his life, and was, I am convinced, morally incapable of such a scuffle,
he retained the block and birch in the school through all his term of office, and spoke at
the Headmasters' Conference in temperate approval of corporal chastisement, comparing it, dear
soul! to the power of the sword....

I wish I could, in some measure and without tediousness, convey the effect of his discourses
to General Assembly in Big Hall. But that is like trying to draw the obverse and reverse of
a sixpence worn to complete illegibility. His tall fine figure stood high on the days, his
thoughtful tenor filled the air as he steered his hazardous way through sentences that dragged
inconclusive tails and dropped redundant prepositions. And he pleaded ever so urgently, ever
so finely, that what we all knew for Sin was sinful, and on the whole best avoided altogether,
and so went on with deepening notes and even with short arresting gestures of the right arm
and hand, to stir and exhort us towards goodness, towards that modern, unsectarian goodness,
goodness in general and nothing in particular, which the Zeitgeist seemed to indicate in those
transitional years.

7

The school never quite got hold of me. Partly I think that was because I was a day-boy and
so freer than most of the boys, partly because of a temperamental disposition to see things
in my own way and have my private dreams, partly because I was a little antagonised by the
family traditions that ran through the school. I was made to feel at first that I was a rank
outsider, and I never quite forgot it. I suffered very little bullying, and I never had a fight--in
all my time there were only three fights--but I followed my own curiosities. I was already
a very keen theologian and politician before I was fifteen. I was also intensely interested
in modern warfare. I read the morning papers in the Reading Room during the midday recess,
never missed the illustrated weeklies, and often when I could afford it I bought a PALL MALL
GAZETTE on my way home.

I do not think that I was very exceptional in that; most intelligent boys, I believe, want
naturally to be men, and are keenly interested in men's affairs. There is not the universal
passion for a magnified puerility among them it is customary to assume. I was indeed a voracious
reader of everything but boys' books--which I detested--and fiction. I read histories, travel,
popular science and controversy with particular zest, and I loved maps. School work and school
games were quite subordinate affairs for me. I worked well and made a passable figure at games,
and I do not think I was abnormally insensitive to the fine quality of our school, to the charm
of its mediaeval nucleus, its Gothic cloisters, its scraps of Palladian and its dignified Georgian
extensions; the contrast of the old quiet, that in spite of our presence pervaded it everywhere,
with the rushing and impending London all about it, was indeed a continual pleasure to me.
But these things were certainly not the living and central interests of my life.

I had to conceal my wider outlook to a certain extent--from the masters even more than from
the boys. Indeed I only let myself go freely with one boy, Britten, my especial chum, the son
of the Agent-General for East Australia. We two discovered in a chance conversation A PROPOS
of a map in the library that we were both of us curious why there were Malays in Madagascar,
and how the Mecca pilgrims came from the East Indies before steamships were available. Neither
of us had suspected that there was any one at all in the school who knew or cared a rap about
the Indian Ocean, except as water on the way to India. But Britten had come up through the
Suez Canal, and his ship had spoken a pilgrim ship on the way. It gave him a startling quality
of living knowledge. From these pilgrims we got to a comparative treatment of religions, and
from that, by a sudden plunge, to entirely sceptical and disrespectful confessions concerning
Gates' last outbreak of simple piety in School Assembly. We became congenial intimates from
that hour.

The discovery of Britten happened to me when we were both in the Lower Fifth. Previously there
had been a watertight compartment between the books I read and the thoughts they begot on the
one hand and human intercourse on the other. Now I really began my higher education, and aired
and examined and developed in conversation the doubts, the ideas, the interpretations that
had been forming in my mind. As we were both day-boys with a good deal of control over our
time we organised walks and expeditions together, and my habit of solitary and rather vague
prowling gave way to much more definite joint enterprises. I went several times to his house,
he was the youngest of several brothers, one of whom was a medical student and let us assist
at the dissection of a cat, and once or twice in vacation time he came to Penge, and we went
with parcels of provisions to do a thorough day in the grounds and galleries of the Crystal
Palace, ending with the fireworks at close quarters. We went in a river steamboat down to Greenwich,
and fired by that made an excursion to Margate and back; we explored London docks and Bethnal
Green Museum, Petticoat Lane and all sorts of out-of-the-way places together.

We confessed shyly to one another a common secret vice, "Phantom warfare." When we walked alone,
especially in the country, we had both developed the same practice of fighting an imaginary
battle about us as we walked. As we went along we were generals, and our attacks pushed along
on either side, crouching and gathering behind hedges, cresting ridges, occupying copses, rushing
open spaces, fighting from house to house. The hillsides about Penge were honeycombed in my
imagination with the pits and trenches I had created to check a victorious invader coming out
of Surrey. For him West Kensington was chiefly important as the scene of a desperate and successful
last stand of insurrectionary troops (who had seized the Navy, the Bank and other advantages)
against a royalist army--reinforced by Germans--advancing for reasons best known to themselves
by way of Harrow and Ealing. It is a secret and solitary game, as we found when we tried to
play it together. We made a success of that only once. All the way down to Margate we schemed
defences and assailed and fought them as we came back against the sunset. Afterwards we recapitulated
all that conflict by means of a large scale map of the Thames and little paper ironclads in
plan cut out of paper.

A subsequent revival of these imaginings was brought about by Britten's luck in getting, through
a friend of his father's, admission for us both to the spectacle of volunteer officers fighting
the war game in Caxton Hall. We developed a war game of our own at Britten's home with nearly
a couple of hundred lead soldiers, some excellent spring cannons that shot hard and true at
six yards, hills of books and a constantly elaborated set of rules. For some months that occupied
an immense proportion of our leisure. Some of our battles lasted several days. We kept the
game a profound secret from the other fellows. They would not have understood.

And we also began, it was certainly before we were sixteen, to write, for the sake of writing.
We liked writing. We had discovered Lamb and the best of the middle articles in such weeklies
as the SATURDAY GAZETTE, and we imitated them. Our minds were full of dim uncertain things
we wanted to drag out into the light of expression. Britten had got hold of IN MEMORIAM, and
I had disinterred Pope's ESSAY ON MAN and RABBI BEN EZRA, and these things had set our theological
and cosmic solicitudes talking. I was somewhere between sixteen and eighteen, I know, when
he and I walked along the Thames Embankment confessing shamefully to one another that we had
never read Lucretius. We thought every one who mattered had read Lucretius.

When I was nearly sixteen my mother was taken ill very suddenly, and died of some perplexing
complaint that involved a post-mortem examination; it was, I think, the trouble that has since
those days been recognised as appendicitis. This led to a considerable change in my circumstances;
the house at Penge was given up, and my Staffordshire uncle arranged for me to lodge during
school terms with a needy solicitor and his wife in Vicars Street, S. W., about a mile and
a half from the school. So it was I came right into London; I had almost two years of London
before I went to Cambridge.

Those were our great days together. Afterwards we were torn apart; Britten went to Oxford,
and our circumstances never afterwards threw us continuously together until the days of the
BLUE WEEKLY.

As boys, we walked together, read and discussed the same books, pursued the same enquiries.
We got a reputation as inseparables and the nickname of the Rose and the Lily, for Britten
was short and thick-set with dark close curling hair and a ruddy Irish type of face; I was
lean and fair-haired and some inches taller than he. Our talk ranged widely and yet had certain
very definite limitations. We were amazingly free with politics and religion, we went to that
little meeting-house of William Morris's at Hammersmith and worked out the principles of Socialism
pretty thoroughly, and we got up the Darwinian theory with the help of Britten's medical-student
brother and the galleries of the Natural History Museum in Cromwell Road. Those wonderful cases
on the ground floor illustrating mimicry, dimorphism and so forth, were new in our times, and
we went through them with earnest industry and tried over our Darwinism in the light of that.
Such topics we did exhaustively. But on the other hand I do not remember any discussion whatever
of human sex or sexual relationships. There, in spite of intense secret curiosities, our lips
were sealed by a peculiar shyness. And I do not believe we ever had occasion either of us to
use the word "love." It was not only that we were instinctively shy of the subject, but that
we were mightily ashamed of the extent of our ignorance and uncertainty in these matters. We
evaded them elaborately with an assumption of exhaustive knowledge.

We certainly had no shyness about theology. We marked the emancipation of our spirits from
the frightful teachings that had oppressed our boyhood, by much indulgence in blasphemous wit.
We had a secret literature of irreverent rhymes, and a secret art of theological caricature.
Britten's father had delighted his family by reading aloud from Dr. Richard Garnett's TWILIGHT
OF THE GODS, and Britten conveyed the precious volume to me. That and the BAB BALLADS were
the inspiration of some of our earliest lucubrations.

For an imaginative boy the first experience of writing is like a tiger's first taste of blood,
and our literary flowerings led very directly to the revival of the school magazine, which
had been comatose for some years. But there we came upon a disappointment.

8

In that revival we associated certain other of the Sixth Form boys, and notably one for whom
our enterprise was to lay the foundations of a career that has ended in the House of Lords,
Arthur Cossington, now Lord Paddockhurst. Cossington was at that time a rather heavy, rather
good-looking boy who was chiefly eminent in cricket, an outsider even as we were and preoccupied
no doubt, had we been sufficiently detached to observe him, with private imaginings very much
of the same quality and spirit as our own. He was, we were inclined to think, rather a sentimentalist,
rather a poseur, he affected a concise emphatic style, played chess very well, betrayed a belief
in will-power, and earned Britten's secret hostility, Britten being a sloven, by the invariable
neatness of his collars and ties. He came into our magazine with a vigour that we found extremely
surprising and unwelcome.

Britten and I had wanted to write. We had indeed figured our project modestly as a manuscript
magazine of satirical, liberal and brilliant literature by which in some rather inexplicable
way the vague tumult of ideas that teemed within us was to find form and expression; Cossington,
it was manifest from the outset, wanted neither to write nor writing, but a magazine. I remember
the inaugural meeting in Shoesmith major's study--we had had great trouble in getting it together--and
how effectually Cossington bolted with the proposal.

"I think we fellows ought to run a magazine," said Cossington. "The school used to have one.
A school like this ought to have a magazine."

"The last one died in '84," said Shoesmith from the hearthrug. "Called the OBSERVER. Rot rather."

"Bad title," said Cossington.

"There was a TATLER before that," said Britten, sitting on the writing table at the window
that was closed to deaden the cries of the Lower School at play, and clashing his boots together.

"We want something suggestive of City Merchants."

"CITY MERCHANDIZE," said Britten.

"Too fanciful. What of ARVONIAN? Richard Arvon was our founder, and it seems almost a duty--"

"They call them all -usians or -onians," said Britten.

"I like CITY MERCHANDIZE," I said. "We could probably find a quotation to suggest--oh! mixed
good things."

Cossington regarded me abstractedly.

"Don't want to put the accent on the City, do we?" said Shoesmith, who had a feeling for county
families, and Naylor supported him by a murmur of approval.

"We ought to call it the ARVONIAN," decided Cossington, "and we might very well have underneath,
'With which is incorporated the OBSERVER.' That picks up the old traditions, makes an appeal
to old boys and all that, and it gives us something to print under the title."

I still held out for CITY MERCHANDIZE, which had taken my fancy. "Some of the chaps' people
won't like it," said Naylor, "certain not to. And it sounds Rum."

"Sounds Weird," said a boy who had not hitherto spoken.

"We aren't going to do anything Queer," said Shoesmith, pointedly not looking at Britten.

The question of the title had manifestly gone against us. "Oh! HAVE it ARVONIAN," I said.

"And next, what size shall we have?" said Cossington.

"Something like MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE--or LONGMANS'; LONGMANS' is better because it has a whole
page, not columns. It makes no end of difference to one's effects."

"What effects?" asked Shoesmith abruptly.

"Oh! a pause or a white line or anything. You've got to write closer for a double column. It's
nuggetty. You can't get a swing on your prose." I had discussed this thoroughly with Britten.

"If the fellows are going to write--" began Britten.

"We ought to keep off fine writing," said Shoesmith. "It's cheek. I vote we don't have any."

"We sha'n't get any," said Cossington, and then as an olive branch to me, "unless Remington
does a bit. Or Britten. But it's no good making too much space for it."

"We ought to be very careful about the writing," said Shoesmith. "We don't want to give ourselves
away."

"I vote we ask old Topham to see us through," said Naylor.

Britten groaned aloud and every one regarded him. "Greek epigrams on the fellows' names," he
said. "Small beer in ancient bottles. Let's get a stuffed broody hen to SIT on the magazine."

"We might do worse than a Greek epigram," said Cossington. "One in each number. It--it impresses
parents and keeps up our classical tradition. And the masters CAN help. We don't want to antagonise
them. Of course--we've got to departmentalise. Writing is only one section of the thing. The
ARVONIAN has to stand for the school. There's questions of space and questions of expense.
We can't turn out a great chunk of printed prose like--like wet cold toast and call it a magazine."

Britten writhed, appreciating the image.

"There's to be a section of sports. YOU must do that."

"I'm not going to do any fine writing," said Shoesmith.

"What you've got to do is just to list all the chaps and put a note to their play:--'Naylor
minor must pass more. Football isn't the place for extreme individualism.' 'Ammersham shapes
well as half-back.' Things like that."

"I could do that all right," said Shoesmith, brightening and manifestly becoming pregnant with
judgments.

"One great thing about a magazine of this sort," said Cossington, "is to mention just as many
names as you can in each number. It keeps the interest alive. Chaps will turn it over looking
for their own little bit. Then it all lights up for them."

"Do you want any reports of matches?" Shoesmith broke from his meditation.

"Rather. With comments."

"Naylor surpassed himself and negotiated the lemon safely home," said Shoesmith.

"Shut it," said Naylor modestly.

"Exactly," said Cossington. "That gives us three features," touching them off on his fingers,
"Epigram, Literary Section, Sports. Then we want a section to shove anything into, a joke,
a notice of anything that's going on. So on. Our Note Book."

"Oh, Hell!" said Britten, and clashed his boots, to the silent disapproval of every one.

"Then we want an editorial."

"A WHAT?" cried Britten, with a note of real terror in his voice.

"Well, don't we? Unless we have our Note Book to begin on the front page. It gives a scrappy
effect to do that. We want something manly and straightforward and a bit thoughtful, about
Patriotism, say, or ESPRIT DE CORPS, or After-Life."

I looked at Britten. Hitherto we had not considered Cossington mattered very much in the world.

He went over us as a motor-car goes over a dog. There was a sort of energy about him, a new
sort of energy to us; we had never realised that anything of the sort existed in the world.
We were hopelessly at a disadvantage. Almost instantly we had developed a clear and detailed
vision of a magazine made up of everything that was most acceptable in the magazines that flourished
in the adult world about us, and had determined to make it a success. He had by a kind of instinct,
as it were, synthetically plagiarised every successful magazine and breathed into this dusty
mixture the breath of life. He was elected at his own suggestion managing director, with the
earnest support of Shoesmith and Naylor, and conducted the magazine so successfully and brilliantly
that he even got a whole back page of advertisements from the big sports shop in Holborn, and
made the printers pay at the same rate for a notice of certain books of their own which they
said they had inserted by inadvertency to fill up space. The only literary contribution in
the first number was a column by Topham in faultless stereotyped English in depreciation of
some fancied evil called Utilitarian Studies and ending with that noble old quotation:--

"To the glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was Rome."

And Flack crowded us out of number two with a bright little paper on the "Humours of Cricket,"
and the Head himself was profusely thoughtful all over the editorial under the heading of "The
School Chapel; and How it Seems to an Old Boy."

Britten and I found it difficult to express to each other with any grace or precision what
we felt about that magazine.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH ~~ ADOLESCENCE

1

I find it very difficult to trace how form was added to form and interpretation followed interpretation
in my ever-spreading, ever-deepening, ever-multiplying and enriching vision of this world into
which I had been born. Every day added its impressions, its hints, its subtle explications
to the growing understanding. Day after day the living interlacing threads of a mind weave
together. Every morning now for three weeks and more (for to-day is Thursday and I started
on a Tuesday) I have been trying to convey some idea of the factors and early influences by
which my particular scrap of subjective tapestry was shaped, to show the child playing on the
nursery floor, the son perplexed by his mother, gazing aghast at his dead father, exploring
interminable suburbs, touched by first intimations of the sexual mystery, coming in with a
sort of confused avidity towards the centres of the life of London. It is only by such an effort
to write it down that one realises how marvellously crowded, how marvellously analytical and
synthetic those ears must be. One begins with the little child to whom the sky is a roof of
blue, the world a screen of opaque and disconnected facts, the home a thing eternal, and "being
good" just simple obedience to unquestioned authority; and one comes at last to the vast world
of one's adult perception, pierced deep by flaring searchlights of partial understanding, here
masked by mists, here refracted and distorted through half translucent veils, here showing
broad prospects and limitless vistas and here impenetrably dark.

I recall phases of deep speculation, doubts and even prayers by night, and strange occasions
when by a sort of hypnotic contemplation of nothingness I sought to pierce the web of appearances
about me. It is hard to measure these things in receding perspective, and now I cannot trace,
so closely has mood succeeded and overlaid and obliterated mood, the phases by which an utter
horror of death was replaced by the growing realisation of its necessity and dignity. Difficulty
of the imagination with infinite space, infinite time, entangled my mind; and moral distress
for the pain and suffering of bygone ages that made all thought of reformation in the future
seem but the grimmest irony upon now irreparable wrongs. Many an intricate perplexity of these
broadening years did not so much get settled as cease to matter. Life crowded me away from it.

I have confessed myself a temerarious theologian, and in that passage from boyhood to manhood
I ranged widely in my search for some permanently satisfying Truth. That, too, ceased after
a time to be urgently interesting. I came at last into a phase that endures to this day, of
absolute tranquillity, of absolute confidence in whatever that Incomprehensible Comprehensive
which must needs be the substratum of all things, may be. Feeling OF IT, feeling BY IT, I cannot
feel afraid of it. I think I had got quite clearly and finally to that adjustment long before
my Cambridge days were done. I am sure that the evil in life is transitory and finite like
an accident or distress in the nursery; that God is my Father and that I may trust Him, even
though life hurts so that one must needs cry out at it, even though it shows no consequence
but failure, no promise but pain....

But while I was fearless of theology I must confess it was comparatively late before I faced
and dared to probe the secrecies of sex. I was afraid of sex. I had an instinctive perception
that it would be a large and difficult thing in my life, but my early training was all in the
direction of regarding it as an irrelevant thing, as something disconnected from all the broad
significances of life, as hostile and disgraceful in its quality. The world was never so emasculated
in thought, I suppose, as it was in the Victorian time....

I was afraid to think either of sex or (what I have always found inseparable from a kind of
sexual emotion) beauty. Even as a boy I knew the thing as a haunting and alluring mystery that
I tried to keep away from. Its dim presence obsessed me none the less for all the extravagant
decency, the stimulating silences of my upbringing....

The plaster Venuses and Apollos that used to adorn the vast aisle and huge grey terraces of
the Crystal Palace were the first intimations of the beauty of the body that ever came into
my life. As I write of it I feel again the shameful attraction of those gracious forms. I used
to look at them not simply, but curiously and askance. Once at least in my later days at Penge,
I spent a shilling in admission chiefly for the sake of them....

The strangest thing of all my odd and solitary upbringing seems to me now that swathing up
of all the splendours of the flesh, that strange combination of fanatical terrorism and shyness
that fenced me about with prohibitions. It caused me to grow up, I will not say blankly ignorant,
but with an ignorance blurred and dishonoured by shame, by enigmatical warnings, by cultivated
aversions, an ignorance in which a fascinated curiosity and desire struggled like a thing in
a net. I knew so little and I felt so much. There was indeed no Aphrodite at all in my youthful
Pantheon, but instead there was a mysterious and minatory gap. I have told how at last a new
Venus was born in my imagination out of gas lamps and the twilight, a Venus with a cockney
accent and dark eyes shining out of the dusk, a Venus who was a warm, passion-stirring atmosphere
rather than incarnate in a body. And I have told, too, how I bought a picture.

All this was a thing apart from the rest of my life, a locked avoided chamber....

It was not until my last year at Trinity that I really broke down the barriers of this unwholesome
silence and brought my secret broodings to the light of day. Then a little set of us plunged
suddenly into what we called at first sociological discussion. I can still recall even the
physical feeling of those first tentative talks. I remember them mostly as occurring in the
rooms of Ted Hatherleigh, who kept at the corner by the Trinity great gate, but we also used
to talk a good deal at a man's in King's, a man named, if I remember rightly, Redmayne. The
atmosphere of Hatherleigh's rooms was a haze of tobacco smoke against a background brown and
deep. He professed himself a socialist with anarchistic leanings--he had suffered the martyrdom
of ducking for it--and a huge French May-day poster displaying a splendid proletarian in red
and black on a barricade against a flaring orange sky, dominated his decorations. Hatherleigh
affected a fine untidiness, and all the place, even the floor, was littered with books, for
the most part open and face downward; deeper darknesses were supplied by a discarded gown and
our caps, all conscientiously battered, Hatherleigh's flopped like an elephant's ear and inserted
quill pens supported the corners of mine; the highlights of the picture came chiefly as reflections
from his chequered blue mugs full of audit ale. We sat on oak chairs, except the four or five
who crowded on a capacious settle, we drank a lot of beer and were often fuddled, and occasionally
quite drunk, and we all smoked reckless-looking pipes,--there was a transient fashion among
us for corn cobs for which Mark Twain, I think, was responsible. Our little excesses with liquor
were due far more to conscience than appetite, indicated chiefly a resolve to break away from
restraints that we suspected were keeping us off the instructive knife-edges of life. Hatherleigh
was a good Englishman of the premature type with a red face, a lot of hair, a deep voice and
an explosive plunging manner, and it was he who said one evening--Heaven knows how we got to
it--"Look here, you know, it's all Rot, this Shutting Up about Women. We OUGHT to talk about
them. What are we going to do about them? It's got to come. We're all festering inside about
it. Let's out with it. There's too much Decency altogether about this Infernal University!"

We rose to his challenge a little awkwardly and our first talk was clumsy, there were flushed
faces and red ears, and I remember Hatherleigh broke out into a monologue on decency. "Modesty
and Decency," said Hatherleigh, "are Oriental vices. The Jews brought them to Europe. They're
Semitic, just like our monasticism here and the seclusion of women and mutilating the dead
on a battlefield. And all that sort of thing."

Hatherleigh's mind progressed by huge leaps, leaps that were usually wildly inaccurate, and
for a time we engaged hotly upon the topic of those alleged mutilations and the Semitic responsibility
for decency. Hatherleigh tried hard to saddle the Semitic race with the less elegant war customs
of the Soudan and the northwest frontier of India, and quoted Doughty, at that time a little-known
author, and Cunninghame Graham to show that the Arab was worse than a county-town spinster
in his regard for respectability. But his case was too preposterous, and Esmeer, with his shrill
penetrating voice and his way of pointing with all four long fingers flat together, carried
the point against him. He quoted Cato and Roman law and the monasteries of Thibet.

"Well, anyway," said Hatherleigh, escaping from our hands like an intellectual frog, "Semitic
or not, I've got no use for decency."

We argued points and Hatherleigh professed an unusually balanced and tolerating attitude. "I
don't mind a certain refinement and dignity," he admitted generously. "What I object to is
this spreading out of decency until it darkens the whole sky, until it makes a man's father
afraid to speak of the most important things, until it makes a man afraid to look a frank book
in the face or think--even think! until it leads to our coming to--to the business at last
with nothing but a few prohibitions, a few hints, a lot of dirty jokes and, and "--he waved
a hand and seemed to seek and catch his image in the air--"oh, a confounded buttered slide
of sentiment, to guide us. I tell you I'm going to think about it and talk about it until I
see a little more daylight than I do at present. I'm twenty-two. Things might happen to me
anywhen. You men can go out into the world if you like, to sin like fools and marry like fools,
not knowing what you are doing and ashamed to ask. You'll take the consequences, too, I expect,
pretty meekly, sniggering a bit, sentimentalising a bit, like--like Cambridge humorists....
I mean to know what I'm doing."

He paused to drink, and I think I cut in with ideas of my own. But one is apt to forget one's
own share in a talk, I find, more than one does the clear-cut objectivity of other people's,
and I do not know how far I contributed to this discussion that followed. I am, however, pretty
certain that it was then that ideal that we were pleased to call aristocracy and which soon
became the common property of our set was developed. It was Esmeer, I know, who laid down and
maintained the proposition that so far as minds went there were really only two sorts of man
in the world, the aristocrat and the man who subdues his mind to other people's.

"'I couldn't THINK of it, Sir,'" said Esmeer in his elucidatory tones; "that's what a servant
says. His mind even is broken in to run between fences, and he admits it. WE'VE got to be able
to think of anything. And 'such things aren't for the Likes of Us!' That's another servant's
saying. Well, everything IS for the Likes of Us. If we see fit, that is."

A small fresh-coloured man in grey objected.

"Well," exploded Hatherleigh, "if that isn't so what the deuce are we up here for? Instead
of working in mines? If some things aren't to be thought about ever! We've got the privilege
of all these extra years for getting things straight in our heads, and then we won't use 'em.
Good God! what do you think a university's for?"...

Esmeer's idea came with an effect of real emancipation to several of us. We were not going
to be afraid of ideas any longer, we were going to throw down every barrier of prohibition
and take them in and see what came of it. We became for a time even intemperately experimental,
and one of us, at the bare suggestion of an eminent psychic investigator, took hashish and
very nearly died of it within a fortnight of our great elucidation.

The chief matter of our interchanges was of course the discussion of sex. Once the theme had
been opened it became a sore place in our intercourse; none of us seemed able to keep away
from it. Our imaginations got astir with it. We made up for lost time and went round it and
through it and over it exhaustively. I recall prolonged discussion of polygamy on the way to
Royston, muddy November tramps to Madingley, when amidst much profanity from Hatherleigh at
the serious treatment of so obsolete a matter, we weighed the reasons, if any, for the institution
of marriage. The fine dim night-time spaces of the Great Court are bound up with the inconclusive
finales of mighty hot-eared wrangles; the narrows of Trinity Street and Petty Cury and Market
Hill have their particular associations for me with that spate of confession and free speech,
that almost painful goal delivery of long pent and crappled and sometimes crippled ideas.

And we went on a reading party that Easter to a place called Pulborough in Sussex, where there
is a fishing inn and a river that goes under a bridge. It was a late Easter and a blazing one,
and we boated and bathed and talked of being Hellenic and the beauty of the body until at moments
it seemed to us that we were destined to restore the Golden Age, by the simple abolition of
tailors and outfitters.

Those undergraduate talks! how rich and glorious they seemed, how splendidly new the ideas
that grew and multiplied in our seething minds! We made long afternoon and evening raids over
the Downs towards Arundel, and would come tramping back through the still keen moonlight singing
and shouting. We formed romantic friendships with one another, and grieved more or less convincingly
that there were no splendid women fit to be our companions in the world. But Hatherleigh, it
seemed, had once known a girl whose hair was gloriously red. "My God!" said Hatherleigh to
convey the quality of her; just simply and with projectile violence: "My God!"

Benton had heard of a woman who lived with a man refusing to be married to him--we thought
that splendid beyond measure,--I cannot now imagine why. She was "like a tender goddess," Benton
said. A sort of shame came upon us in the dark in spite of our liberal intentions when Benton
committed himself to that. And after such talk we would fall upon great pauses of emotional
dreaming, and if by chance we passed a girl in a governess cart, or some farmer's daughter
walking to the station, we became alertly silent or obstreperously indifferent to her. For
might she not be just that one exception to the banal decency, the sickly pointless conventionality,
the sham modesty of the times in which we lived?

We felt we stood for a new movement, not realising how perennially this same emancipation returns
to those ancient courts beside the Cam. We were the anti-decency party, we discovered a catch
phrase that we flourished about in the Union and made our watchword, namely, "stark fact."
We hung nude pictures in our rooms much as if they had been flags, to the earnest concern of
our bedders, and I disinterred my long-kept engraving and had it framed in fumed oak, and found
for it a completer and less restrained companion, a companion I never cared for in the slightest
degree....

This efflorescence did not prevent, I think indeed it rather helped, our more formal university
work, for most of us took firsts, and three of us got Fellowships in one year or another. There
was Benton who had a Research Fellowship and went to Tubingen, there was Esmeer and myself
who both became Residential Fellows. I had taken the Mental and Moral Science Tripos (as it
was then), and three years later I got a lectureship in political science. In those days it
was disguised in the cloak of Political Economy.

2

It was our affectation to be a little detached from the main stream of undergraduate life.
We worked pretty hard, but by virtue of our beer, our socialism and suchlike heterodoxy, held
ourselves to be differentiated from the swatting reading man. None of us, except Baxter, who
was a rowing blue, a rather abnormal blue with an appetite for ideas, took games seriously
enough to train, and on the other hand we intimated contempt for the rather mediocre, deliberately
humorous, consciously gentlemanly and consciously wild undergraduate men who made up the mass
of Cambridge life. After the manner of youth we were altogether too hard on our contemporaries.
We battered our caps and tore our gowns lest they should seem new, and we despised these others
extremely for doing exactly the same things; we had an idea of ourselves and resented beyond
measure a similar weakness in these our brothers.

There was a type, or at least there seemed to us to be a type--I'm a little doubtful at times
now whether after all we didn't create it--for which Hatherleigh invented the nickname the
"Pinky Dinkys," intending thereby both contempt and abhorrence in almost equal measure. The
Pinky Dinky summarised all that we particularly did not want to be, and also, I now perceive,
much of what we were and all that we secretly dreaded becoming.

But it is hard to convey the Pinky Dinky idea, for all that it meant so much to us. We spent
one evening at least during that reading party upon the Pinky Dinky; we sat about our one fire
after a walk in the rain--it was our only wet day--smoked our excessively virile pipes, and
elaborated the natural history of the Pinky Dinky. We improvised a sort of Pinky Dinky litany,
and Hatherleigh supplied deep notes for the responses.

"The Pinky Dinky extracts a good deal of amusement from life," said some one.

"Damned prig!" said Hatherleigh.

"The Pinky Dinky arises in the Union and treats the question with a light gay touch. He makes
the weird ones mad. But sometimes he cannot go on because of the amusement he extracts."

"I want to shy books at the giggling swine," said Hatherleigh.

"The Pinky Dinky says suddenly while he is making the tea, 'We're all being frightfully funny.
It's time for you to say something now.'"

"The Pinky Dinky shakes his head and says: 'I'm afraid I shall never be a responsible being.'
And he really IS frivolous."

"Frivolous but not vulgar," said Esmeer.

"Pinky Dinkys are chaps who've had their buds nipped," said Hatherleigh. "They're Plebs and
they know it. They haven't the Guts to get hold of things. And so they worry up all those silly
little jokes of theirs to carry it off."...

We tried bad ones for a time, viciously flavoured.

Pinky Dinkys are due to over-production of the type that ought to keep outfitters' shops. Pinky
Dinkys would like to keep outfitters' shops with whimsy 'scriptions on the boxes and make your
bill out funny, and not be snobs to customers, no!--not even if they had titles."

"Every Pinky Dinky's people are rather good people, and better than most Pinky Dinky's people.
But he does not put on side."

"Pinky Dinkys become playful at the sight of women."

"'Croquet's my game,' said the Pinky Dinky, and felt a man condescended."

"But what the devil do they think they're up to, anyhow?" roared old Hatherleigh suddenly,
dropping plump into bottomless despair.

We felt we had still failed to get at the core of the mystery of the Pinky Dinky.

We tried over things about his religion. "The Pinky Dinky goes to King's Chapel, and sits and
feels in the dusk. Solemn things! Oh HUSH! He wouldn't tell you--"

"He COULDN'T tell you."

"Religion is so sacred to him he never talks about it, never reads about it, never thinks about
it. Just feels!"

"But in his heart of hearts, oh! ever so deep, the Pinky Dinky has a doubt--"

Some one protested.

"Not a vulgar doubt," Esmeer went on, "but a kind of hesitation whether the Ancient of Days
is really exactly what one would call good form.... There's a lot of horrid coarseness got
into the world somehow. SOMEBODY put it there.... And anyhow there's no particular reason why
a man should be seen about with Him. He's jolly Awful of course and all that--"

"The Pinky Dinky for all his fun and levity has a clean mind."

"A thoroughly clean mind. Not like Esmeer's--the Pig!"

"If once he began to think about sex, how could he be comfortable at croquet?"

"It's their Damned Modesty," said Hatherleigh suddenly, "that's what's the matter with the
Pinky Dinky. It's Mental Cowardice dressed up as a virtue and taking the poor dears in. Cambridge
is soaked with it; it's some confounded local bacillus. Like the thing that gives a flavour
to Havana cigars. He comes up here to be made into a man and a ruler of the people, and he
thinks it shows a nice disposition not to take on the job! How the Devil is a great Empire
to be run with men like him?"

"All his little jokes and things," said Esmeer regarding his feet on the fender, "it's just
a nervous sniggering--because he's afraid.... Oxford's no better."

"What's he afraid of?" said I.

"God knows!" exploded Hatherleigh and stared at the fire.

"LIFE!" said Esmeer. "And so in a way are we," he added, and made a thoughtful silence for a time.

"I say," began Carter, who was doing the Natural Science Tripos, "what is the adult form of
the Pinky Dinky?"

But there we were checked by our ignorance of the world.

"What is the adult form of any of us?" asked Benton, voicing the thought that had arrested
our flow.

3

I do not remember that we ever lifted our criticism to the dons and the organisation of the
University. I think we took them for granted. When I look back at my youth I am always astonished
by the multitude of things that we took for granted. It seemed to us that Cambridge was in
the order of things, for all the world like having eyebrows or a vermiform appendix. Now with
the larger scepticism of middle age I can entertain very fundamental doubts about these old
universities. Indeed I had a scheme--

I do not see what harm I can do now by laying bare the purpose of the political combinations
I was trying to effect.

My educational scheme was indeed the starting-point of all the big project of conscious public
reconstruction at which I aimed. I wanted to build up a new educational machine altogether
for the governing class out of a consolidated system of special public service schools. I meant
to get to work upon this whatever office I was given in the new government. I could have begun
my plan from the Admiralty or the War Office quite as easily as from the Education Office.
I am firmly convinced it is hopeless to think of reforming the old public schools and universities
to meet the needs of a modern state, they send their roots too deep and far, the cost would
exceed any good that could possibly be effected, and so I have sought a way round this invincible
obstacle. I do think it would be quite practicable to side-track, as the Americans say, the
whole system by creating hardworking, hard-living, modern and scientific boys' schools, first
for the Royal Navy and then for the public service generally, and as they grew, opening them
to the public without any absolute obligation to subsequent service. Simultaneously with this
it would not be impossible to develop a new college system with strong faculties in modern
philosophy, modern history, European literature and criticism, physical and biological science,
education and sociology.

We could in fact create a new liberal education in this way, and cut the umbilicus of the classical
languages for good and all. I should have set this going, and trusted it to correct or kill
the old public schools and the Oxford and Cambridge tradition altogether. I had men in my mind
to begin the work, and I should have found others. I should have aimed at making a hard-trained,
capable, intellectually active, proud type of man. Everything else would have been made subservient
to that. I should have kept my grip on the men through their vacation, and somehow or other
I would have contrived a young woman to match them. I think I could have seen to it effectually
enough that they didn't get at croquet and tennis with the vicarage daughters and discover
sex in the Peeping Tom fashion I did, and that they realised quite early in life that it isn't
really virile to reek of tobacco. I should have had military manoeuvres, training ships, aeroplane
work, mountaineering and so forth, in the place of the solemn trivialities of games, and I
should have fed and housed my men clean and very hard--where there wasn't any audit ale, no
credit tradesmen, and plenty of high pressure douches....

I have revisited Cambridge and Oxford time after time since I came down, and so far as the
Empire goes, I want to get clear of those two places....

Always I renew my old feelings, a physical oppression, a sense of lowness and dampness almost
exactly like the feeling of an underground room where paper moulders and leaves the wall, a
feeling of ineradicable contagion in the Gothic buildings, in the narrow ditch-like rivers,
in those roads and roads of stuffy little villas. Those little villas have destroyed all the
good of the old monastic system and none of its evil....

Some of the most charming people in the world live in them, but their collective effect is
below the quality of any individual among them. Cambridge is a world of subdued tones, of excessively
subtle humours, of prim conduct and free thinking; it fears the Parent, but it has no fear
of God; it offers amidst surroundings that vary between disguises and antiquarian charm the
inflammation of literature's purple draught; one hears there a peculiar thin scandal like no
other scandal in the world--a covetous scandal--so that I am always reminded of Ibsen in Cambridge.
In Cambridge and the plays of Ibsen alone does it seem appropriate for the heroine before the
great crisis of life to "enter, take off her overshoes, and put her wet umbrella upon the writing
desk."...

We have to make a new Academic mind for modern needs, and the last thing to make it out of,
I am convinced, is the old Academic mind. One might as soon try to fake the old VICTORY at
Portsmouth into a line of battleship again. Besides which the old Academic mind, like those
old bathless, damp Gothic colleges, is much too delightful in its peculiar and distinctive
way to damage by futile patching.

My heart warms to a sense of affectionate absurdity as I recall dear old Codger, surely the
most "unleaderly" of men. No more than from the old Schoolmen, his kindred, could one get from
him a School for Princes. Yet apart from his teaching he was as curious and adorable as a good
Netsuke. Until quite recently he was a power in Cambridge, he could make and bar and destroy,
and in a way he has become the quintessence of Cambridge in my thoughts.

I see him on his way to the morning's lecture, with his plump childish face, his round innocent
eyes, his absurdly non-prehensile fat hand carrying his cap, his grey trousers braced up much
too high, his feet a trifle inturned, and going across the great court with a queer tripping
pace that seemed cultivated even to my naive undergraduate eye. Or I see him lecturing. He
lectured walking up and down between the desks, talking in a fluting rapid voice, and with
the utmost lucidity. If he could not walk up and down he could not lecture. His mind and voice
had precisely the fluid quality of some clear subtle liquid; one felt it could flow round anything
and overcome nothing. And its nimble eddies were wonderful! Or again I recall him drinking
port with little muscular movements in his neck and cheek and chin and his brows knit--very
judicial, very concentrated, preparing to say the apt just thing; it was the last thing he
would have told a lie about.

When I think of Codger I am reminded of an inscription I saw on some occasion in Regent's Park
above two eyes scarcely more limpidly innocent than his--"Born in the Menagerie." Never once
since Codger began to display the early promise of scholarship at the age of eight or more,
had he been outside the bars. His utmost travel had been to lecture here and lecture there.
His student phase had culminated in papers of quite exceptional brilliance, and he had gone
on to lecture with a cheerful combination of wit and mannerism that had made him a success
from the beginning. He has lectured ever since. He lectures still. Year by year he has become
plumper, more rubicund and more and more of an item for the intelligent visitor to see. Even
in my time he was pointed out to people as part of our innumerable enrichments, and obviously
he knew it. He has become now almost the leading Character in a little donnish world of much
too intensely appreciated Characters.

He boasted he took no exercise, and also of his knowledge of port wine. Of other wines he confessed
quite frankly he had no "special knowledge." Beyond these things he had little pride except
that he claimed to have read every novel by a woman writer that had ever entered the Union
Library. This, however, he held to be remarkable rather than ennobling, and such boasts as
he made of it were tinged with playfulness. Certainly he had a scholar's knowledge of the works
of Miss Marie Corelli, Miss Braddon, Miss Elizabeth Glyn and Madame Sarah Grand that would
have astonished and flattered those ladies enormously, and he loved nothing so much in his
hours of relaxation as to propound and answer difficult questions upon their books. Tusher
of King's was his ineffectual rival in this field, their bouts were memorable and rarely other
than glorious for Codger; but then Tusher spread himself too much, he also undertook to rehearse
whole pages out of Bradshaw, and tell you with all the changes how to get from any station
to any station in Great Britain by the nearest and cheapest routes....

Codger lodged with a little deaf innocent old lady, Mrs. Araminta Mergle, who was understood
to be herself a very redoubtable Character in the Gyp-Bedder class; about her he related quietly
absurd anecdotes. He displayed a marvellous invention in ascribing to her plausible expressions
of opinion entirely identical in import with those of the Oxford and Harvard Pragmatists, against
whom he waged a fierce obscure war....

It was Codger's function to teach me philosophy, philosophy! the intimate wisdom of things.
He dealt in a variety of Hegelian stuff like nothing else in the world, but marvellously consistent
with itself. It was a wonderful web he spun out of that queer big active childish brain that
had never lusted nor hated nor grieved nor feared nor passionately loved,--a web of iridescent
threads. He had luminous final theories about Love and Death and Immortality, odd matters they
seemed for him to think about! and all his woven thoughts lay across my perception of the realities
of things, as flimsy and irrelevant and clever and beautiful, oh!--as a dew-wet spider's web
slung in the morning sunshine across the black mouth of a gun....

4

All through those years of development I perceive now there must have been growing in me, slowly,
irregularly, assimilating to itself all the phrases and forms of patriotism, diverting my religious
impulses, utilising my esthetic tendencies, my dominating idea, the statesman's idea, that
idea of social service which is the protagonist of my story, that real though complex passion
for Making, making widely and greatly, cities, national order, civilisation, whose interplay
with all those other factors in life I have set out to present. It was growing in me--as one's
bones grow, no man intending it.

I have tried to show how, quite early in my life, the fact of disorderliness, the conception
of social life as being a multitudinous confusion out of hand, came to me. One always of course
simplifies these things in the telling, but I do not think I ever saw the world at large in
any other terms. I never at any stage entertained the idea which sustained my mother, and which
sustains so many people in the world,--the idea that the universe, whatever superficial discords
it may present, is as a matter of fact "all right," is being steered to definite ends by a
serene and unquestionable God. My mother thought that Order prevailed, and that disorder was
just incidental and foredoomed rebellion; I feel and have always felt that order rebels against
and struggles against disorder, that order has an up-hill job, in gardens, experiments, suburbs,
everything alike; from the very beginnings of my experience I discovered hostility to order,
a constant escaping from control.

The current of living and contemporary ideas in which my mind was presently swimming made all
in the same direction; in place of my mother's attentive, meticulous but occasionally extremely
irascible Providence, the talk was all of the Struggle for Existence and the survival not of
the Best--that was nonsense, but of the fittest to survive.

The attempts to rehabilitate Faith in the form of the Individualist's LAISSEZ FAIRE never won
upon me. I disliked Herbert Spencer all my life until I read his autobiography, and then I
laughed a little and loved him. I remember as early as the City Merchants' days how Britten
and I scoffed at that pompous question-begging word "Evolution," having, so to speak, found
it out. Evolution, some illuminating talker had remarked at the Britten lunch table, had led
not only to man, but to the liver-fluke and skunk, obviously it might lead anywhere; order
came into things only through the struggling mind of man. That lit things wonderfully for us.
When I went up to Cambridge I was perfectly clear that life was a various and splendid disorder
of forces that the spirit of man sets itself to tame. I have never since fallen away from that
persuasion.

I do not think I was exceptionally precocious in reaching these conclusions and a sort of religious
finality for myself by eighteen or nineteen. I know men and women vary very much in these matters,
just as children do in learning to talk. Some will chatter at eighteen months and some will
hardly speak until three, and the thing has very little to do with their subsequent mental
quality. So it is with young people; some will begin their religious, their social, their sexual
interests at fourteen, some not until far on in the twenties. Britten and I belonged to one
of the precocious types, and Cossington very probably to another. It wasn't that there was
anything priggish about any of us; we should have been prigs to have concealed our spontaneous
interests and ape the theoretical boy.

The world of man centred for my imagination in London, it still centres there; the real and
present world, that is to say, as distinguished from the wonder-lands of atomic and microscopic
science and the stars and future time. I had travelled scarcely at all, I had never crossed
the Channel, but I had read copiously and I had formed a very good working idea of this round
globe with its mountains and wildernesses and forests and all the sorts and conditions of human
life that were scattered over its surface. It was all alive, I felt, and changing every day;
how it was changing, and the changes men might bring about, fascinated my mind beyond measure.

I used to find a charm in old maps that showed The World as Known to the Ancients, and I wish
I could now without any suspicion of self-deception write down compactly the world as it was
known to me at nineteen. So far as extension went it was, I fancy, very like the world I know
now at forty-two; I had practically all the mountains and seas, boundaries and races, products
and possibilities that I have now. But its intension was very different. All the interval has
been increasing and deepening my social knowledge, replacing crude and second-hand impressions
by felt and realised distinctions.

In 1895--that was my last year with Britten, for I went up to Cambridge in September--my vision
of the world had much the same relation to the vision I have to-day that an ill-drawn daub
of a mask has to the direct vision of a human face. Britten and I looked at our world and saw--what
did we see? Forms and colours side by side that we had no suspicion were interdependent. We
had no conception of the roots of things nor of the reaction of things. It did not seem to
us, for example, that business had anything to do with government, or that money and means
affected the heroic issues of war. There were no wagons in our war game, and where there were
guns, there it was assumed the ammunition was gathered together. Finance again was a sealed
book to us; we did not so much connect it with the broad aspects of human affairs as regard
it as a sort of intrusive nuisance to be earnestly ignored by all right-minded men. We had
no conception of the quality of politics, nor how "interests" came into such affairs; we believed
men were swayed by purely intellectual convictions and were either right or wrong, honest or
dishonest (in which case they deserved to be shot), good or bad. We knew nothing of mental
inertia, and could imagine the opinion of a whole nation changed by one lucid and convincing
exposition. We were capable of the most incongruous transfers from the scroll of history to
our own times, we could suppose Brixton ravaged and Hampstead burnt in civil wars for the succession
to the throne, or Cheapside a lane of death and the front of the Mansion House set about with
guillotines in the course of an accurately transposed French Revolution. We rebuilt London
by Act of Parliament, and once in a mood of hygienic enterprise we transferred its population
EN MASSE to the North Downs by an order of the Local Government Board. We thought nothing of
throwing religious organisations out of employment or superseding all the newspapers by freely
distributed bulletins. We could contemplate the possibility of laws abolishing whole classes;
we were equal to such a dream as the peaceful and orderly proclamation of Communism from the
steps of St. Paul's Cathedral, after the passing of a simply worded bill,--a close and not
unnaturally an exciting division carrying the third reading. I remember quite distinctly evolving
that vision. We were then fully fifteen and we were perfectly serious about it. We were not
fools; it was simply that as yet we had gathered no experience at all of the limits and powers
of legislation and conscious collective intention....

I think this statement does my boyhood justice, and yet I have my doubts. It is so hard now
to say what one understood and what one did not understand. It isn't only that every day changed
one's general outlook, but also that a boy fluctuates between phases of quite adult understanding
and phases of tawdrily magnificent puerility. Sometimes I myself was in those tumbrils that
went along Cheapside to the Mansion House, a Sydney Cartonesque figure, a white defeated Mirabean;
sometimes it was I who sat judging and condemning and ruling (sleeping in my clothes and feeding
very simply) the soul and autocrat of the Provisional Government, which occupied, of all inconvenient
places! the General Post Office at St. Martin's-le-Grand!...

I cannot trace the development of my ideas at Cambridge, but I believe the mere physical fact
of going two hours' journey away from London gave that place for the first time an effect of
unity in my imagination. I got outside London. It became tangible instead of being a frame
almost as universal as sea and sky.

At Cambridge my ideas ceased to live in a duologue; in exchange for Britten, with whom, however,
I corresponded lengthily, stylishly and self-consciously for some years, I had now a set of
congenial friends. I got talk with some of the younger dons, I learnt to speak in the Union,
and in my little set we were all pretty busily sharpening each other's wits and correcting
each other's interpretations. Cambridge made politics personal and actual. At City Merchants'
we had had no sense of effective contact; we boasted, it is true, an under secretary and a
colonial governor among our old boys, but they were never real to us; such distinguished sons
as returned to visit the old school were allusive and pleasant in the best Pinky Dinky style,
and pretended to be in earnest about nothing but our football and cricket, to mourn the abolition
of "water," and find a shuddering personal interest in the ancient swishing block. At Cambridge
I felt for the first time that I touched the thing that was going on. Real living statesmen
came down to debate in the Union, the older dons had been their college intimates, their sons
and nephews expounded them to us and made them real to us. They invited us to entertain ideas;
I found myself for the first time in my life expected to read and think and discuss, my secret
vice had become a virtue.

That combination-room world is at last larger and more populous and various than the world
of schoolmasters. The Shoesmiths and Naylors who had been the aristocracy of City Merchants'
fell into their place in my mind; they became an undistinguished mass on the more athletic
side of Pinky Dinkyism, and their hostility to ideas and to the expression of ideas ceased
to limit and trouble me. The brighter men of each generation stay up; these others go down
to propagate their tradition, as the fathers of families, as mediocre professional men, as
assistant masters in schools. Cambridge which perfects them is by the nature of things least
oppressed by them,--except when it comes to a vote in Convocation.

We were still in those days under the shadow of the great Victorians. I never saw Gladstone
(as I never set eyes on the old Queen), but he had resigned office only a year before I went
up to Trinity, and the Combination Rooms were full of personal gossip about him and Disraeli
and the other big figures of the gladiatorial stage of Parlimentary history, talk that leaked
copiously into such sets as mine. The ceiling of our guest chamber at Trinity was glorious
with the arms of Sir William Harcourt, whose Death Duties had seemed at first like a socialist
dawn. Mr. Evesham we asked to come to the Union every year, Masters, Chamberlain and the old
Duke of Devonshire; they did not come indeed, but their polite refusals brought us all, as
it were, within personal touch of them. One heard of cabinet councils and meetings at country
houses. Some of us, pursuing such interests, went so far as to read political memoirs and the
novels of Disraeli and Mrs. Humphry Ward. From gossip, example and the illustrated newspapers
one learnt something of the way in which parties were split, coalitions formed, how permanent
officials worked and controlled their ministers, how measures were brought forward and projects
modified.

And while I was getting the great leading figures on the political stage, who had been presented
to me in my schooldays not so much as men as the pantomimic monsters of political caricature,
while I was getting them reduced in my imagination to the stature of humanity, and their motives
to the quality of impulses like my own, I was also acquiring in my Tripos work a constantly
developing and enriching conception of the world of men as a complex of economic, intellectual
and moral processes....

5

Socialism is an intellectual Proteus, but to the men of my generation it came as the revolt
of the workers. Rodbertus we never heard of and the Fabian Society we did not understand; Marx
and Morris, the Chicago Anarchists, JUSTICE and Social Democratic Federation (as it was then)
presented socialism to our minds. Hatherleigh was the leading exponent of the new doctrines
in Trinity, and the figure upon his wall of a huge-muscled, black-haired toiler swaggering
sledgehammer in hand across a revolutionary barricade, seemed the quintessence of what he had
to expound. Landlord and capitalist had robbed and enslaved the workers, and were driving them
quite automatically to inevitable insurrection. They would arise and the capitalist system
would flee and vanish like the mists before the morning, like the dews before the sunrise,
giving place in the most simple and obvious manner to an era of Right and Justice and Virtue
and Well Being, and in short a Perfectly Splendid Time.

I had already discussed this sort of socialism under the guidance of Britten, before I went
up to Cambridge. It was all mixed up with ideas about freedom and natural virtue and a great
scorn for kings, titles, wealth and officials, and it was symbolised by the red ties we wore.
Our simple verdict on existing arrangements was that they were "all wrong." The rich were robbers
and knew it, kings and princes were usurpers and knew it, religious teachers were impostors
in league with power, the economic system was an elaborate plot on the part of the few to expropriate
the many. We went about feeling scornful of all the current forms of life, forms that esteemed
themselves solid, that were, we knew, no more than shapes painted on a curtain that was presently
to be torn aside....

It was Hatherleigh's poster and his capacity for overstating things, I think, that first qualified
my simple revolutionary enthusiasm. Perhaps also I had met with Fabian publications, but if
I did I forget the circumstances. And no doubt my innate constructiveness with its practical
corollary of an analytical treatment of the material supplied, was bound to push me on beyond
this melodramatic interpretation of human affairs.

I compared that Working Man of the poster with any sort of working man I knew. I perceived
that the latter was not going to change, and indeed could not under any stimulus whatever be
expected to change, into the former. It crept into my mind as slowly and surely as the dawn
creeps into a room that the former was not, as I had at first rather glibly assumed, an "ideal,"
but a complete misrepresentation of the quality and possibilities of things.

I do not know now whether it was during my school-days or at Cambridge that I first began not
merely to see the world as a great contrast of rich and poor, but to feel the massive effect
of that multitudinous majority of people who toil continually, who are for ever anxious about
ways and means, who are restricted, ill clothed, ill fed and ill housed, who have limited outlooks
and continually suffer misadventures, hardships and distresses through the want of money. My
lot had fallen upon the fringe of the possessing minority; if I did not know the want of necessities
I knew shabbiness, and the world that let me go on to a university education intimated very
plainly that there was not a thing beyond the primary needs that my stimulated imagination
might demand that it would not be an effort for me to secure. A certain aggressive radicalism
against the ruling and propertied classes followed almost naturally from my circumstances.
It did not at first connect itself at all with the perception of a planless disorder in human
affairs that had been forced upon me by the atmosphere of my upbringing, nor did it link me
in sympathy with any of the profounder realities of poverty. It was a personal independent
thing. The dingier people one saw in the back streets and lower quarters of Bromstead and Penge,
the drift of dirty children, ragged old women, street loafers, grimy workers that made the
social background of London, the stories one heard of privation and sweating, only joined up
very slowly with the general propositions I was making about life. We could become splendidly
eloquent about the social revolution and the triumph of the Proletariat after the Class war,
and it was only by a sort of inspiration that it came to me that my bedder, a garrulous old
thing with a dusty black bonnet over one eye and an ostentatiously clean apron outside the
dark mysteries that clothed her, or the cheeky little ruffians who yelled papers about the
streets, were really material to such questions.

Directly any of us young socialists of Trinity found ourselves in immediate contact with servants
or cadgers or gyps or bedders or plumbers or navvies or cabmen or railway porters we became
unconsciously and unthinkingly aristocrats. Our voices altered, our gestures altered. We behaved
just as all the other men, rich or poor, swatters or sportsmen or Pinky Dinkys, behaved, and
exactly as we were expected to behave. On the whole it is a population of poor quality round
about Cambridge, rather stunted and spiritless and very difficult to idealise. That theoretical
Working Man of ours!--if we felt the clash at all we explained it, I suppose, by assuming that
he came from another part of the country; Esmeer, I remember, who lived somewhere in the Fens,
was very eloquent about the Cornish fishermen, and Hatherleigh, who was a Hampshire man, assured
us we ought to know the Scottish miner. My private fancy was for the Lancashire operative because
of his co-operative societies, and because what Lancashire thinks to-day England thinks to-morrow....
And also I had never been in Lancashire.

By little increments of realisation it was that the profounder verities of the problem of socialism
came to me. It helped me very much that I had to go down to the Potteries several times to
discuss my future with my uncle and guardian; I walked about and saw Bursley Wakes and much
of the human aspects of organised industrialism at close quarters for the first time. The picture
of a splendid Working Man cheated out of his innate glorious possibilities, and presently to
arise and dash this scoundrelly and scandalous system of private ownership to fragments, began
to give place to a limitless spectacle of inefficiency, to a conception of millions of people
not organised as they should be, not educated as they should be, not simply prevented from
but incapable of nearly every sort of beauty, mostly kindly and well meaning, mostly incompetent,
mostly obstinate, and easily humbugged and easily diverted. Even the tragic and inspiring idea
of Marx, that the poor were nearing a limit of painful experience, and awakening to a sense
of intolerable wrongs, began to develop into the more appalling conception that the poor were
simply in a witless uncomfortable inconclusive way--"muddling along"; that they wanted nothing
very definitely nor very urgently, that mean fears enslaved them and mean satisfactions decoyed
them, that they took the very gift of life itself with a spiritless lassitude, hoarding it,
being rather anxious not to lose it than to use it in any way whatever.

The complete development of that realisation was the work of many years. I had only the first
intimations at Cambridge. But I did have intimations. Most acutely do I remember the doubts
that followed the visit of Chris Robinson. Chris Robinson was heralded by such heroic anticipations,
and he was so entirely what we had not anticipated.

Hatherleigh got him to come, arranged a sort of meeting for him at Redmayne's rooms in King's,
and was very proud and proprietorial. It failed to stir Cambridge at all profoundly. Beyond
a futile attempt to screw up Hatherleigh made by some inexpert duffers who used nails instead
of screws and gimlets, there was no attempt to rag. Next day Chris Robinson went and spoke
at Bennett Hall in Newnham College, and left Cambridge in the evening amidst the cheers of
twenty men or so. Socialism was at such a low ebb politically in those days that it didn't
even rouse men to opposition.

And there sat Chris under that flamboyant and heroic Worker of the poster, a little wrinkled
grey-bearded apologetic man in ready-made clothes, with watchful innocent brown eyes and a
persistent and invincible air of being out of his element. He sat with his stout boots tucked
up under his chair, and clung to a teacup and saucer and looked away from us into the fire,
and we all sat about on tables and chair-arms and windowsills and boxes and anywhere except
upon chairs after the manner of young men. The only other chair whose seat was occupied was
the one containing his knitted woollen comforter and his picturesque old beach-photographer's
hat. We were all shy and didn't know how to take hold of him now we had got him, and, which
was disconcertingly unanticipated, he was manifestly having the same difficulty with us. We
had expected to be gripped.

"I'll not be knowing what to say to these Chaps," he repeated with a north-country quality
in his speech.

We made reassuring noises.

The Ambassador of the Workers stirred his tea earnestly through an uncomfortable pause.

"I'd best tell 'em something of how things are in Lancashire, what with the new machines and
all that," he speculated at last with red reflections in his thoughtful eyes.

We had an inexcusable dread that perhaps he would make a mess of the meeting.

But when he was no longer in the unaccustomed meshes of refined conversation, but speaking
with an audience before him, he became a different man. He declared he would explain to us
just exactly what socialism was, and went on at once to an impassioned contrast of social conditions.
"You young men," he said "come from homes of luxury; every need you feel is supplied--"

We sat and stood and sprawled about him, occupying every inch of Redmayne's floor space except
the hearthrug-platform, and we listened to him and thought him over. He was the voice of wrongs
that made us indignant and eager. We forgot for a time that he had been shy and seemed not
a little incompetent, his provincial accent became a beauty of his earnest speech, we were
carried away by his indignations. We looked with shining eyes at one another and at the various
dons who had dropped in and were striving to maintain a front of judicious severity. We felt
more and more that social injustice must cease, and cease forthwith. We felt we could not sleep
upon it. At the end we clapped and murmured our applause and wanted badly to cheer.

Then like a lancet stuck into a bladder came the heckling. Denson, that indolent, liberal-minded
sceptic, did most of the questioning. He lay contorted in a chair, with his ugly head very
low, his legs crossed and his left boot very high, and he pointed his remarks with a long thin
hand and occasionally adjusted the unstable glasses that hid his watery eyes. "I don't want
to carp," he began. "The present system, I admit, stands condemned. Every present system always
HAS stood condemned in the minds of intelligent men. But where it seems to me you get thin,
is just where everybody has been thin, and that's when you come to the remedy."

"Socialism," said Chris Robinson, as if it answered everything, and Hatherleigh said "Hear!
Hear!" very resolutely.

"I suppose I OUGHT to take that as an answer," said Denson, getting his shoulder-blades well
down to the seat of his chair; "but I don't. I don't, you know. It's rather a shame to cross-examine
you after this fine address of yours"--Chris Robinson on the hearthrug made acquiescent and
inviting noises--"but the real question remains how exactly are you going to end all these
wrongs? There are the administrative questions. If you abolish the private owner, I admit you
abolish a very complex and clumsy way of getting businesses run, land controlled and things
in general administered, but you don't get rid of the need of administration, you know."

"Democracy," said Chris Robinson.

"Organised somehow," said Denson. "And it's just the How perplexes me. I can quite easily imagine
a socialist state administered in a sort of scrambling tumult that would be worse than anything
we have got now.

"Nothing could be worse than things are now," said Chris Robinson. "I have seen little children--"

"I submit life on an ill-provisioned raft, for example, could easily be worse--or life in a
beleagured town."

Murmurs.

They wrangled for some time, and it had the effect upon me of coming out from the glow of a
good matinee performance into the cold daylight of late afternoon. Chris Robinson did not shine
in conflict with Denson; he was an orator and not a dialectician, and he missed Denson's points
and displayed a disposition to plunge into untimely pathos and indignation. And Denson hit
me curiously hard with one of his shafts. "Suppose," he said, "you found yourself prime minister--"

I looked at Chris Robinson, bright-eyed and his hair a little ruffled and his whole being rhetorical,
and measured him against the huge machine of government muddled and mysterious. Oh! but I was
perplexed!

And then we took him back to Hatherleigh's rooms and drank beer and smoked about him while
he nursed his knee with hairy wristed hands that protruded from his flannel shirt, and drank
lemonade under the cartoon of that emancipated Worker, and we had a great discursive talk with him.

"Eh! you should see our big meetings up north?" he said.

Denson had ruffled him and worried him a good deal, and ever and again he came back to that
discussion. "It's all very easy for your learned men to sit and pick holes," he said, "while
the children suffer and die. They don't pick holes up north. They mean business."

He talked, and that was the most interesting part of it all, of his going to work in a factory
when he was twelve--"when you Chaps were all with your mammies "--and how he had educated himself
of nights until he would fall asleep at his reading.

"It's made many of us keen for all our lives," he remarked, "all that clemming for education.
Why! I longed all through one winter to read a bit of Darwin. I must know about this Darwin
if I die for it, I said. And I could no' get the book."

Hatherleigh made an enthusiastic noise and drank beer at him with round eyes over the mug.

"Well, anyhow I wasted no time on Greek and Latin," said Chris Robinson. "And one learns to
go straight at a thing without splitting straws. One gets hold of the Elementals."

(Well, did they? That was the gist of my perplexity.)

"One doesn't quibble," he said, returning to his rankling memory of Denson, "while men decay
and starve."

"But suppose," I said, suddenly dropping into opposition, "the alternative is to risk a worse
disaster--or do something patently futile."

"I don't follow that," said Chris Robinson. "We don't propose anything futile, so far as I
can see."

6

The prevailing force in my undergraduate days was not Socialism but Kiplingism. Our set was
quite exceptional in its socialistic professions. And we were all, you must understand, very
distinctly Imperialists also, and professed a vivid sense of the "White Man's Burden."

It is a little difficult now to get back to the feelings of that period; Kipling has since
been so mercilessly and exhaustively mocked, criticised and torn to shreds;--never was a man
so violently exalted and then, himself assisting, so relentlessly called down. But in the middle
nineties this spectacled and moustached little figure with its heavy chin and its general effect
of vehement gesticulation, its wild shouts of boyish enthusiasm for effective force, its lyric
delight in the sounds and colours, in the very odours of empire, its wonderful discovery of
machinery and cotton waste and the under officer and the engineer, and "shop" as a poetic dialect,
became almost a national symbol. He got hold of us wonderfully, he filled us with tinkling
and haunting quotations, he stirred Britten and myself to futile imitations, he coloured the
very idiom of our conversation. He rose to his climax with his "Recessional," while I was still
an undergraduate.

What did he give me exactly?

He helped to broaden my geographical sense immensely, and he provided phrases for just that
desire for discipline and devotion and organised effort the Socialism of our time failed to
express, that the current socialist movement still fails, I think, to express.

It is after all a secondary matter that Kipling, not having been born and brought up in Bromstead
and Penge, and the war in South Africa being yet in the womb of time, could quite honestly
entertain the now remarkable delusion that England had her side-arms at that time kept anything
but "awful." He learnt better, and we all learnt with him in the dark years of exasperating
and humiliating struggle that followed, and I do not see that we fellow learners are justified
in turning resentfully upon him for a common ignorance and assumption....

South Africa seems always painted on the back cloth of my Cambridge memories. How immense those
disasters seemed at the time, disasters our facile English world has long since contrived in
any edifying or profitable sense to forget! How we thrilled to the shouting newspaper sellers
as the first false flush of victory gave place to the realisation of defeat. Far away there
our army showed itself human, mortal and human in the sight of all the world, the pleasant
officers we had imagined would change to wonderful heroes at the first crackling of rifles,
remained the pleasant, rather incompetent men they had always been, failing to imagine, failing
to plan and co-operate, failing to grip. And the common soldiers, too, they were just what
our streets and country-side had made them, no sudden magic came out of the war bugles for
them. Neither splendid nor disgraceful were they,--just ill-trained and fairly plucky and wonderfully
good-tempered men--paying for it. And how it lowered our vitality all that first winter to
hear of Nicholson's Nek, and then presently close upon one another, to realise the bloody waste
of Magersfontein, the shattering retreat from Stormberg, Colenso--Colenso, that blundering
battle, with White, as it seemed, in Ladysmith near the point of surrender! and so through
the long unfolding catalogue of bleak disillusionments, of aching, unconcealed anxiety lest
worse should follow. To advance upon your enemy singing about his lack of cleanliness and method
went out of fashion altogether! The dirty retrogressive Boer vanished from our scheme of illusion.

All through my middle Cambridge period, the guns boomed and the rifles crackled away there
on the veldt, and the horsemen rode and the tale of accidents and blundering went on. Men,
mules, horses, stores and money poured into South Africa, and the convalescent wounded streamed
home. I see it in my memory as if I had looked at it through a window instead of through the
pages of the illustrated papers; I recall as if I had been there the wide open spaces, the
ragged hillsides, the open order attacks of helmeted men in khaki, the scarce visible smoke
of the guns, the wrecked trains in great lonely places, the burnt isolated farms, and at last
the blockhouses and the fences of barbed wire uncoiling and spreading for endless miles across
the desert, netting the elusive enemy until at last, though he broke the meshes again and again,
we had him in the toils. If one's attention strayed in the lecture-room it wandered to those
battle-fields.

And that imagined panorama of war unfolds to an accompaniment of yelling newsboys in the narrow
old Cambridge streets, of the flicker of papers hastily bought and torn open in the twilight,
of the doubtful reception of doubtful victories, and the insensate rejoicings at last that
seemed to some of us more shameful than defeats....

7

A book that stands out among these memories, that stimulated me immensely so that I forced
it upon my companions, half in the spirit of propaganda and half to test it by their comments,
was Meredith's ONE OF OUR CONQUERORS. It is one of the books that have made me. In that I got
a supplement and corrective of Kipling. It was the first detached and adverse criticism of
the Englishman I had ever encountered. It must have been published already nine or ten years
when I read it. The country had paid no heed to it, had gone on to the expensive lessons of
the War because of the dull aversion our people feel for all such intimations, and so I could
read it as a book justified. The war endorsed its every word for me, underlined each warning
indication of the gigantic dangers that gathered against our system across the narrow seas.
It discovered Europe to me, as watching and critical.

But while I could respond to all its criticisms of my country's intellectual indolence, of
my country's want of training and discipline and moral courage, I remember that the idea that
on the continent there were other peoples going ahead of us, mentally alert while we fumbled,
disciplined while we slouched, aggressive and preparing to bring our Imperial pride to a reckoning,
was extremely novel and distasteful to me. It set me worrying of nights. It put all my projects
for social and political reconstruction upon a new uncomfortable footing. It made them no longer
merely desirable but urgent. Instead of pride and the love of making one might own to a baser
motive. Under Kipling's sway I had a little forgotten the continent of Europe, treated it as
a mere envious echo to our own world-wide display. I began now to have a disturbing sense as
it were of busy searchlights over the horizon....

One consequence of the patriotic chagrin Meredith produced in me was an attempt to belittle
his merit. "It isn't a good novel, anyhow," I said.

The charge I brought against it was, I remember, a lack of unity. It professed to be a study
of the English situation in the early nineties, but it was all deflected, I said, and all the
interest was confused by the story of Victor Radnor's fight with society to vindicate the woman
he had loved and never married. Now in the retrospect and with a mind full of bitter enlightenment,
I can do Meredith justice, and admit the conflict was not only essential but cardinal in his
picture, that the terrible inflexibility of the rich aunts and the still more terrible claim
of Mrs. Burman Radnor, the "infernal punctilio," and Dudley Sowerby's limitations, were the
central substance of that inalertness the book set itself to assail. So many things have been
brought together in my mind that were once remotely separated. A people that will not valiantly
face and understand and admit love and passion can understand nothing whatever. But in those
days what is now just obvious truth to me was altogether outside my range of comprehension....

8

As I seek to recapitulate the interlacing growth of my apprehension of the world, as I flounder
among the half-remembered developments that found me a crude schoolboy and left me a man, there
comes out, as if it stood for all the rest, my first holiday abroad. That did not happen until
I was twenty-two. I was a fellow of Trinity, and the Peace of Vereeniging had just been signed.

I went with a man named Willersley, a man some years senior to myself, who had just missed
a fellowship and the higher division of the Civil Service, and who had become an enthusiastic
member of the London School Board, upon which the cumulative vote and the support of the "advanced"
people had placed him. He had, like myself, a small independent income that relieved him of
any necessity to earn a living, and he had a kindred craving for social theorising and some
form of social service. He had sought my acquaintance after reading a paper of mine (begotten
by the visit of Chris Robinson) on the limits of pure democracy. It had marched with some thoughts
of his own.

We went by train to Spiez on the Lake of Thun, then up the Gemmi, and thence with one or two
halts and digressions and a little modest climbing we crossed over by the Antrona pass (on
which we were benighted) into Italy, and by way of Domo D'ossola and the Santa Maria Maggiore
valley to Cannobio, and thence up the lake to Locarno (where, as I shall tell, we stayed some
eventful days) and so up the Val Maggia and over to Airolo and home.

As I write of that long tramp of ours, something of its freshness and enlargement returns to
me. I feel again the faint pleasant excitement of the boat train, the trampling procession
of people with hand baggage and laden porters along the platform of the Folkestone pier, the
scarcely perceptible swaying of the moored boat beneath our feet. Then, very obvious and simple,
the little emotion of standing out from the homeland and seeing the long white Kentish cliffs
recede. One walked about the boat doing one's best not to feel absurdly adventurous, and presently
a movement of people directed one's attention to a white lighthouse on a cliff to the east
of us, coming up suddenly; and then one turned to scan the little different French coast villages,
and then, sliding by in a pale sunshine came a long wooden pier with oddly dressed children
upon it, and the clustering town of Boulogne.

One took it all with the outward calm that became a young man of nearly three and twenty, but
one was alive to one's finger-tips with pleasing little stimulations. The custom house examination
excited one, the strangeness of a babble in a foreign tongue; one found the French of City
Merchants' and Cambridge a shy and viscous flow, and then one was standing in the train as
it went slowly through the rail-laid street to Boulogne Ville, and one looked out at the world
in French, porters in blouses, workmen in enormous purple trousers, police officers in peaked
caps instead of helmets and romantically cloaked, big carts, all on two wheels instead of four,
green shuttered casements instead of sash windows, and great numbers of neatly dressed women
in economical mourning.

"Oh! there's a priest!" one said, and was betrayed into suchlike artless cries.

It was a real other world, with different government and different methods, and in the night
one was roused from uneasy slumbers and sat blinking and surly, wrapped up in one's couverture
and with one's oreiller all awry, to encounter a new social phenomenon, the German official,
so different in manner from the British; and when one woke again after that one had come to
Bale, and out one tumbled to get coffee in Switzerland....

I have been over that route dozens of times since, but it still revives a certain lingering
youthfulness, a certain sense of cheerful release in me.

I remember that I and Willersley became very sociological as we ran on to Spiez, and made all
sorts of generalisations from the steeply sloping fields on the hillsides, and from the people
we saw on platforms and from little differences in the way things were done.

The clean prosperity of Bale and Switzerland, the big clean stations, filled me with patriotic
misgivings, as I thought of the vast dirtiness of London, the mean dirtiness of Cambridgeshire.
It came to me that perhaps my scheme of international values was all wrong, that quite stupendous
possibilities and challenges for us and our empire might be developing here--and I recalled
Meredith's Skepsey in France with a new understanding.

Willersley had dressed himself in a world-worn Norfolk suit of greenish grey tweeds that ended
unfamiliarly at his rather impending, spectacled, intellectual visage. I didn't, I remember,
like the contrast of him with the drilled Swiss and Germans about us. Convict coloured stockings
and vast hobnail boots finished him below, and all his luggage was a borrowed rucksac that
he had tied askew. He did not want to shave in the train, but I made him at one of the Swiss
stations--I dislike these Oxford slovenlinesses--and then confound him! he cut himself and bled....

Next morning we were breathing a thin exhilarating air that seemed to have washed our very
veins to an incredible cleanliness, and eating hard-boiled eggs in a vast clear space of rime-edged
rocks, snow-mottled, above a blue-gashed glacier. All about us the monstrous rock surfaces
rose towards the shining peaks above, and there were winding moraines from which the ice had
receded, and then dark clustering fir trees far below.

I had an extraordinary feeling of having come out of things, of being outside.

"But this is the round world!" I said, with a sense of never having perceived it before; "this
is the round world!"

9

That holiday was full of big comprehensive effects; the first view of the Rhone valley and
the distant Valaisian Alps, for example, which we saw from the shoulder of the mountain above
the Gemmi, and the early summer dawn breaking over Italy as we moved from our night's crouching
and munched bread and chocolate and stretched our stiff limbs among the tumbled and precipitous
rocks that hung over Lake Cingolo, and surveyed the winding tiring rocky track going down and
down to Antronapiano.

And our thoughts were as comprehensive as our impressions. Willersley's mind abounded in historical
matter; he had an inaccurate abundant habit of topographical reference; he made me see and
trace and see again the Roman Empire sweep up these winding valleys, and the coming of the
first great Peace among the warring tribes of men....

In the retrospect each of us seems to have been talking about our outlook almost continually.
Each of us, you see, was full of the same question, very near and altogether predominant to
us, the question: "What am I going to do with my life?" He saw it almost as importantly as
I, but from a different angle, because his choice was largely made and mine still hung in the
balance.

"I feel we might do so many things," I said, "and everything that calls one, calls one away
from something else."

Willersley agreed without any modest disavowals.

"We have got to think out," he said, "just what we are and what we are up to. We've got to
do that now. And then--it's one of those questions it is inadvisable to reopen subsequently."

He beamed at me through his glasses. The sententious use of long words was a playful habit
with him, that and a slight deliberate humour, habits occasional Extension Lecturing was doing
very much to intensify.

"You've made your decision?"

He nodded with a peculiar forward movement of his head.

"How would you put it?"

"Social Service--education. Whatever else matters or doesn't matter, it seems to me there is
one thing we MUST have and increase, and that is the number of people who can think a little--and
have"--he beamed again--"an adequate sense of causation."

"You're sure it's worth while."

"For me--certainly. I don't discuss that any more."

"I don't limit myself too narrowly," he added. "After all, the work is all one. We who know,
we who feel, are building the great modern state, joining wall to wall and way to way, the
new great England rising out of the decaying old... we are the real statesmen--I like that
use of 'statesmen.'..."

"Yes," I said with many doubts. "Yes, of course...."

Willersley is middle-aged now, with silver in his hair and a deepening benevolence in his always
amiable face, and he has very fairly kept his word. He has lived for social service and to
do vast masses of useful, undistinguished, fertilising work. Think of the days of arid administrative
plodding and of contention still more arid and unrewarded, that he must have spent! His little
affectations of gesture and manner, imitative affectations for the most part, have increased,
and the humorous beam and the humorous intonations have become a thing he puts on every morning
like an old coat. His devotion is mingled with a considerable whimsicality, and they say he
is easily flattered by subordinates and easily offended into opposition by colleagues; he has
made mistakes at times and followed wrong courses, still there he is, a flat contradiction
to all the ordinary doctrine of motives, a man who has foregone any chances of wealth and profit,
foregone any easier paths to distinction, foregone marriage and parentage, in order to serve
the community. He does it without any fee or reward except his personal self-satisfaction in
doing this work, and he does it without any hope of future joys and punishments, for he is
an implacable Rationalist. No doubt he idealises himself a little, and dreams of recognition.
No doubt he gets his pleasure from a sense of power, from the spending and husbanding of large
sums of public money, and from the inevitable proprietorship he must feel in the fair, fine,
well-ordered schools he has done so much to develop. "But for me," he can say, "there would
have been a Job about those diagrams, and that subject or this would have been less ably taught."...

The fact remains that for him the rewards have been adequate, if not to content at any rate
to keep him working. Of course he covets the notice of the world he has served, as a lover
covets the notice of his mistress. Of course he thinks somewhere, somewhen, he will get credit.
Only last year I heard some men talking of him, and they were noting, with little mean smiles,
how he had shown himself self-conscious while there was talk of some honorary degree-giving
or other; it would, I have no doubt, please him greatly if his work were to flower into a crimson
gown in some Academic parterre. Why shouldn't it? But that is incidental vanity at the worst;
he goes on anyhow. Most men don't.

But we had our walk twenty years and more ago now. He was oldish even then as a young man,
just as he is oldish still in middle age. Long may his industrious elderliness flourish for
the good of the world! He lectured a little in conversation then; he lectures more now and
listens less, toilsomely disentangling what you already understand, giving you in detail the
data you know; these are things like callosities that come from a man's work.

Our long three weeks' talk comes back to me as a memory of ideas and determinations slowly
growing, all mixed up with a smell of wood smoke and pine woods and huge precipices and remote
gleams of snow-fields and the sound of cascading torrents rushing through deep gorges far below.
It is mixed, too, with gossips with waitresses and fellow travellers, with my first essays
in colloquial German and Italian, with disputes about the way to take, and other things that
I will tell of in another section. But the white passion of human service was our dominant
theme. Not simply perhaps nor altogether unselfishly, but quite honestly, and with at least
a frequent self-forgetfulness, did we want to do fine and noble things, to help in their developing,
to lessen misery, to broaden and exalt life. It is very hard--perhaps it is impossible--to
present in a page or two the substance and quality of nearly a month's conversation, conversation
that is casual and discursive in form, that ranges carelessly from triviality to immensity,
and yet is constantly resuming a constructive process, as workmen on a wall loiter and jest
and go and come back, and all the while build.

We got it more and more definite that the core of our purpose beneath all its varied aspects
must needs be order and discipline. "Muddle," said I, "is the enemy." That remains my belief
to this day. Clearness and order, light and foresight, these things I know for Good. It was
muddle had just given us all the still freshly painful disasters and humiliations of the war,
muddle that gives us the visibly sprawling disorder of our cities and industrial country-side,
muddle that gives us the waste of life, the limitations, wretchedness and unemployment of the
poor. Muddle! I remember myself quoting Kipling--

    "All along o' dirtiness, all along o' mess,
     All along o' doin' things rather-more-or-less."

"We build the state," we said over and over again. "That is what we are for--servants of the
new reorganisation!"

We planned half in earnest and half Utopianising, a League of Social Service.

We talked of the splendid world of men that might grow out of such unpaid and ill-paid work
as we were setting our faces to do. We spoke of the intricate difficulties, the monstrous passive
resistances, the hostilities to such a development as we conceived our work subserved, and
we spoke with that underlying confidence in the invincibility of the causes we adopted that
is natural to young and scarcely tried men.

We talked much of the detailed life of politics so far as it was known to us, and there Willersley
was more experienced and far better informed than I; we discussed possible combinations and
possible developments, and the chances of some great constructive movement coming from the
heart-searchings the Boer war had occasioned. We would sink to gossip--even at the Suetonius
level. Willersley would decline towards illuminating anecdotes that I capped more or less loosely
from my private reading. We were particularly wise, I remember, upon the management of newspapers,
because about that we knew nothing whatever. We perceived that great things were to be done
through newspapers. We talked of swaying opinion and moving great classes to massive action.

Men are egotistical even in devotion. All our splendid projects were thickset with the first
personal pronoun. We both could write, and all that we said in general terms was reflected
in the particular in our minds; it was ourselves we saw, and no others, writing and speaking
that moving word. We had already produced manuscript and passed the initiations of proof reading;
I had been a frequent speaker in the Union, and Willersley was an active man on the School
Board. Our feet were already on the lower rungs that led up and up. He was six and twenty,
and I twenty-two. We intimated our individual careers in terms of bold expectation. I had prophetic
glimpses of walls and hoardings clamorous with "Vote for Remington," and Willersley no doubt
saw himself chairman of this committee and that, saying a few slightly ironical words after
the declaration of the poll, and then sitting friendly beside me on the government benches.
There was nothing impossible in such dreams. Why not the Board of Education for him? My preference
at that time wavered between the Local Government Board--I had great ideas about town-planning,
about revisions of municipal areas and re-organised internal transit--and the War Office. I
swayed strongly towards the latter as the journey progressed. My educational bias came later.

The swelling ambitions that have tramped over Alpine passes! How many of them, like mine, have
come almost within sight of realisation before they failed?

There were times when we posed like young gods (of unassuming exterior), and times when we
were full of the absurdest little solicitudes about our prospects. There were times when one
surveyed the whole world of men as if it was a little thing at one's feet, and by way of contrast
I remember once lying in bed--it must have been during this holiday, though I cannot for the
life of me fix where--and speculating whether perhaps some day I might not be a K. C. B., Sir
Richard Remington, K. C. B., M. P.

But the big style prevailed....

We could not tell from minute to minute whether we were planning for a world of solid reality,
or telling ourselves fairy tales about this prospect of life. So much seemed possible, and
everything we could think of so improbable. There were lapses when it seemed to me I could
never be anything but just the entirely unimportant and undistinguished young man I was for
ever and ever. I couldn't even think of myself as five and thirty.

Once I remember Willersley going over a list of failures, and why they had failed--but young
men in the twenties do not know much about failures.

10

Willersley and I professed ourselves Socialists, but by this time I knew my Rodbertus as well
as my Marx, and there was much in our socialism that would have shocked Chris Robinson as much
as anything in life could have shocked him. Socialism as a simple democratic cry we had done
with for ever. We were socialists because Individualism for us meant muddle, meant a crowd
of separated, undisciplined little people all obstinately and ignorantly doing things jarringly,
each one in his own way. "Each," I said quoting words of my father's that rose apt in my memory,
"snarling from his own little bit of property, like a dog tied to a cart's tail."

"Essentially," said Willersley, "essentially we're for conscription, in peace and war alike.
The man who owns property is a public official and has to behave as such. That's the gist of
socialism as I understand it."

"Or be dismissed from his post," I said, "and replaced by some better sort of official. A man's
none the less an official because he's irresponsible. What he does with his property affects
people just the same. Private! No one is really private but an outlaw...."

Order and devotion were the very essence of our socialism, and a splendid collective vigour
and happiness its end. We projected an ideal state, an organised state as confident and powerful
as modern science, as balanced and beautiful as a body, as beneficent as sunshine, the organised
state that should end muddle for ever; it ruled all our ideals and gave form to all our ambitions.

Every man was to be definitely related to that, to have his predominant duty to that. Such
was the England renewed we had in mind, and how to serve that end, to subdue undisciplined
worker and undisciplined wealth to it, and make the Scientific Commonweal, King, was the continuing
substance of our intercourse.

11

Every day the wine of the mountains was stronger in our blood, and the flush of our youth deeper.
We would go in the morning sunlight along some narrow Alpine mule-path shouting large suggestions
for national reorganisation, and weighing considerations as lightly as though the world was
wax in our hands. "Great England," we said in effect, over and over again, "and we will be
among the makers! England renewed! The country has been warned; it has learnt its lesson. The
disasters and anxieties of the war have sunk in. England has become serious.... Oh! there are
big things before us to do; big enduring things!"

One evening we walked up to the loggia of a little pilgrimage church, I forget its name, that
stands out on a conical hill at the head of a winding stair above the town of Locarno. Down
below the houses clustered amidst a confusion of heat-bitten greenery. I had been sitting silently
on the parapet, looking across to the purple mountain masses where Switzerland passes into
Italy, and the drift of our talk seemed suddenly to gather to a head.

I broke into speech, giving form to the thoughts that had been accumulating. My words have
long since passed out of my memory, the phrases of familiar expression have altered for me,
but the substance remains as clear as ever. I said how we were in our measure emperors and
kings, men undriven, free to do as we pleased with life; we classed among the happy ones, our
bread and common necessities were given us for nothing, we had abilities,--it wasn't modesty
but cowardice to behave as if we hadn't--and Fortune watched us to see what we might do with
opportunity and the world.

"There are so many things to do, you see," began Willersley, in his judicial lecturer's voice.

"So many things we may do," I interrupted, "with all these years before us.... We're exceptional
men. It's our place, our duty, to do things."

"Here anyhow," I said, answering the faint amusement of his face; "I've got no modesty. Everything
conspires to set me up. Why should I run about like all those grubby little beasts down there,
seeking nothing but mean little vanities and indulgencies--and then take credit for modesty?
I KNOW I am capable. I KNOW I have imagination. Modesty! I know if I don't attempt the very
biggest things in life I am a damned shirk. The very biggest! Somebody has to attempt them.
I feel like a loaded gun that is only a little perplexed because it has to find out just where
to aim itself...."

The lake and the frontier villages, a white puff of steam on the distant railway to Luino,
the busy boats and steamers trailing triangular wakes of foam, the long vista eastward towards
battlemented Bellinzona, the vast mountain distances, now tinged with sunset light, behind
this nearer landscape, and the southward waters with remote coast towns shining dimly, waters
that merged at last in a luminous golden haze, made a broad panoramic spectacle. It was as
if one surveyed the world,--and it was like the games I used to set out upon my nursery floor.
I was exalted by it; I felt larger than men. So kings should feel.

That sense of largeness came to me then, and it has come to me since, again and again, a splendid
intimation or a splendid vanity. Once, I remember, when I looked at Genoa from the mountain
crest behind the town and saw that multitudinous place in all its beauty of width and abundance
and clustering human effort, and once as I was steaming past the brown low hills of Staten
Island towards the towering vigour and clamorous vitality of New York City, that mood rose
to its quintessence. And once it came to me, as I shall tell, on Dover cliffs. And a hundred
times when I have thought of England as our country might be, with no wretched poor, no wretched
rich, a nation armed and ordered, trained and purposeful amidst its vales and rivers, that
emotion of collective ends and collective purposes has returned to me. I felt as great as humanity.
For a brief moment I was humanity, looking at the world I had made and had still to make....

12

And mingled with these dreams of power and patriotic service there was another series of a
different quality and a different colour, like the antagonistic colour of a shot silk. The
white life and the red life, contrasted and interchanged, passing swiftly at a turn from one
to another, and refusing ever to mingle peacefully one with the other. I was asking myself
openly and distinctly: what are you going to do for the world? What are you going to do with
yourself? and with an increasing strength and persistence Nature in spite of my averted attention
was asking me in penetrating undertones: what are you going to do about this other fundamental
matter, the beauty of girls and women and your desire for them?

I have told of my sisterless youth and the narrow circumstances of my upbringing. It made all
women-kind mysterious to me. If it had not been for my Staffordshire cousins I do not think
I should have known any girls at all until I was twenty. Of Staffordshire I will tell a little
later. But I can remember still how through all those ripening years, the thought of women's
beauty, their magic presence in the world beside me and the unknown, untried reactions of their
intercourse, grew upon me and grew, as a strange presence grows in a room when one is occupied
by other things. I busied myself and pretended to be wholly occupied, and there the woman stood,
full half of life neglected, and it seemed to my averted mind sometimes that she was there
clad and dignified and divine, and sometimes Aphrodite shining and commanding, and sometimes
that Venus who stoops and allures.

This travel abroad seemed to have released a multitude of things in my mind; the clear air,
the beauty of the sunshine, the very blue of the glaciers made me feel my body and quickened
all those disregarded dreams. I saw the sheathed beauty of women's forms all about me, in the
cheerful waitresses at the inns, in the pedestrians one encountered in the tracks, in the chance
fellow travellers at the hotel tables. "Confound it!" said I, and talked all the more zealously
of that greater England that was calling us.

I remember that we passed two Germans, an old man and a tall fair girl, father and daughter,
who were walking down from Saas. She came swinging and shining towards us, easy and strong.
I worshipped her as she approached.

"Gut Tag!" said Willersley, removing his hat.

"Morgen!" said the old man, saluting.

I stared stockishly at the girl, who passed with an indifferent face.

That sticks in my mind as a picture remains in a room, it has kept there bright and fresh as
a thing seen yesterday, for twenty years....

I flirted hesitatingly once or twice with comely serving girls, and was a little ashamed lest
Willersley should detect the keen interest I took in them, and then as we came over the pass
from Santa Maria Maggiore to Cannobio, my secret preoccupation took me by surprise and flooded
me and broke down my pretences.

The women in that valley are very beautiful--women vary from valley to valley in the Alps and
are plain and squat here and divinities five miles away--and as we came down we passed a group
of five or six of them resting by the wayside. Their burthens were beside them, and one like
Ceres held a reaping hook in her brown hand. She watched us approaching and smiled faintly,
her eyes at mine.

There was some greeting, and two of them laughed together.

We passed.

"Glorious girls they were," said Willersley, and suddenly an immense sense of boredom enveloped
me. I saw myself striding on down that winding road, talking of politics and parties and bills
of parliament and all sorts of dessicated things. That road seemed to me to wind on for ever
down to dust and infinite dreariness. I knew it for a way of death. Reality was behind us.

