Now, what reason has any man for declaring that the Spirit dwells in us in any other way, unless
he can point to an explicit declaration of God's word defining and explaining that other way?
This can not be done, for there is no such passage. "But," says one, "I do not have to depend
upon the Word. I know it by my own consciousness." It is a principle as old as metaphysics
that consciousness does not take cognizance of causes, but of effects. You may be conscious
of an effect within you, but you can not be conscious of the cause that produced the effect.
Suppose you are lying asleep on the ground; you are suddenly awakened by a severe pain in your
lower limb; consciousness tells you that you are suffering pain, but it does not tell you what
produced that pain. This must be decided by reason or faith. If you find a thorn in the grass
where your limb was resting, reason says the thorn stuck you; if you find a bumblebee mashed
in the grass, reason will say the insect stung you; or, if some one near you says a boy with
a pin in his hand ran away from you, faith will say the boy stuck you. But in either case it
was reason or faith that decided the cause of your pain. Now, when a man says, "I am conscious
of the presence of the Holy Spirit within me," he simply means, "I am conscious of a feeling
within me which I have been taught was caused by the Holy Spirit." If the man has been taught
wrong, he assigns a wrong cause for the feeling. This unfruitful country is rightly named New Scotland.-- Barren
and unfruitful as old Scotland is, our Nova Scotia is worse. If Churchill were alive, what
might he not say of this rude and unfinished part of creation, that glories in the name of "New
Scotland?" The picture would here be complete if it were set off with here and there a meagre and
dried up highlander, without shoes, stockings or breeches, with a ragged plaid, a little blue flat
bonnet, sitting on a bleak rock playing a bag-pipe, and singing the glories of a country that
never was conquered! To finish the picture, you have only to imagine a dozen more ragged, raw-boned
Scotchmen, sitting on the bare rocks around the piper, knitting stockings
to send to England and America, where they can afford to wear them.

Such is Scotia, old and new, whose sons are remarkable for their inveterate hatred of the Americans,
as we shall see in the course of this narrative.

As to the inside of the prison at Melville Island, if the American reader expects to hear it
represented as a place resembling the large prisons for criminals in the United States, such as
those at Boston, Charlestown, New York, or Philadelphia, he will be sadly disappointed. Some of
these prisons are as clean and nearly as comfortable, as some of the monasteries and convents
in Europe. Our new prisons in the United States reflect great honor on the nation. To those unused
to these lofty sleeping-births, they were rather unpleasant situations
for repose.

But use makes every thing easy.

The first time I was shut up for the night, in this prison, it distressed
me too much to close my eyes.

Its closeness and smell were, in a degree, disagreeable, but this was trifling to what I experienced
afterwards, in another place.

If any, through natural heaviness, or indisposition, was dilatory,
he was sure to feel the bayonet of the brutal soldier, who appeared
to us to have a natural antipathy to a sailor, and from what I observed,
I believe that in general little or no love is lost between them.

This prison is swept out twice a week, by the prisoners.-- The task
is performed by the respective messes in turns.-- When the prison is
washed, the prisoners are kept out until it is perfectly dry.

This, in the wet seasons, and in the severity of winter, is sometimes
very distressing and dangerous to health; for there is no retiring
place for shelter; it is like a stable, where the cattle are either
under cover, or exposed to the weather, be it ever so inclement.

When we arrived here in May, 1813, there were about nine hundred prisoners;
but many died by the severity of the winter; for the quantity of fuel
allowed by the British government was insufficient to convey warmth
through the prison.

The men were cruelly harrassed by the barbarous custom of mustering
and parading them in the severest cold, and even in snow storms.

The agent, Miller, might have alleviated the sufferings of our people,
had he been so disposed, without relaxation of duty.

But he, as well as the turnkey, named Grant, seemed to take delight
in tormenting the Americans.

This man would often keep the prisoners out for many hours, in the
severest weather, when the mercury was ten and fifteen degrees below
zero, under a pretext that the prison had been washed, and was not
sufficiently dry for their reception: when in fact every drop of water
used was in a moment ice.

People in the southern states, and the inhabitants of England and Ireland, can form no adequate
idea of the frightful climate of Nova Scotia.

The description of the sufferings of our poor fellows the past winter,
was enough to make one's heart ach, and to rouse our indignation against
the agents in this business.

Our people are sensible to kind treatment, and are ready to acknowledge
humane and considerate conduct towards themselves, or towards their
companions; but they are resentful in proportion as they are grateful.

They speak very generally of the conduct of Miller, the agent, and Grant, the turnkey, with
disgust and resentment.

A complaint was made to him of the badness of the beef served out
to the prisoners, upon which he collected the prisoners, and mounting
the stair-case, began a most passionate harrangue, declaring that
the beef was good enough, and a d-- d deal better than they had in
their own country: and if they did not eat it they should have none.

He then went on as follows "Hundreds of you, d-- d scoundrels, have
been to me begging and pleading that I would interpose my influence
that you might be the first to be exchanged, to return home to your
families, who were starving in your absence; and now you have the
impudence to tell me to my face, that the king's beef is not good
enough for your dainty stomachs.

Why some of that there beef is good enough for me to eat.

You are a set of mean rascals, you beg of an enemy the favours which
your own government won't grant you.

You complain of ill treatment, when you never fared better in your
lives. If, therefore, a man is born again, he must be
born in mind, in heart, in body. How is this birth accomplished? Let us see what the Word says.

God gives all things--sometimes directly, sometimes through an agent. The Holy Spirit is the
agent. "Born of water and the Spirit." But an agent often works through an instrument. What
is the instrument? The word of God. 1:22, 23).

How can the word of God accomplish the new birth? From the men on this miserable vessel we got
information of a good watering place, where we soon anchored. The commandant of this little settlement
was of the colour of our North American Indians, and so were his family, but the rest were nearly
as black as negroes. Years ago the prophet Mohammed put his spirit into the words, "There is one God,
and Mohammed is his prophet." We gave chase to them; but when we came within gun shot of the
stern most, she fired her stern chasers at us. We brought our four guns on one side, to attack,
or to defend, as we should find ourselves circumstanced; but night coming on, we saw no more of
them.

