Part 1 - Chapters I to V    -   1spnt10.txt Part 2 - Chapters VI to X   -   2spnt10.txt Part
3 - Chapters XI to XV  -   3spnt10.txt Part 4 - Chapters XVI to XX -   4spnt10.txt

Sentence Numbers, shown thus (1), have been added by volunteer.

A Theologico-Political Treatise

Part 1 - Chapters I to V

Baruch Spinoza

A Theologico-Political Treatise

Part 1 - Chapters I to V

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

PREFACE.

Origin and consequences of superstition.

Causes that have led the author to write.

Course of his investigation.

For what readers the treatise is designed. Submission of author to the rulers of his country.

CHAPTER I - Of Prophecy.

Definition of prophecy.

Distinction between revelation to Moses and to the other prophets.

Between Christ and other recipients of revelation.

Ambiguity of the word "Spirit."

The different senses in which things may be referred to God.

Different senses of "Spirit of God."

Prophets perceived revelation by imagination.

CHAPTER II - Of Prophets.

A mistake to suppose that prophecy can give knowledge of phenomena

Certainty of prophecy based on: (1) Vividness of imagination, (2) A Sign, (3) Goodness of the
Prophet.

Variation of prophecy with the temperament and opinions of the individual.

CHAPTER III - Of the Vocation of the Hebrews, and whether the Gift of Prophecy was peculiar
to them.

Happiness of Hebrews did not consist in the inferiority of the Gentile.

Nor in philosophic knowledge or virtue.

But in their conduct of affairs of state and escape from political dangers.

Even this Distinction did not exist in the time of Abraham.

Testimony from the Old Testament itself to the share of the Gentiles in the law and favour of God.

Explanation of apparent discrepancy of the Epistle to the Romans.

Answer to the arguments for the eternal election of the Jews.

CHAPTER IV - Of the Divine Law.

Laws either depend on natural necessity or on human decree.  The existence of the latter not
inconsistent with the former class of laws.

Divine law a kind of law founded on human decree: called Divine from its object.

Divine law: (1) universal; (2) independent of the truth of any historical narrative; (3) independent
of rites and ceremonies; (4) its own reward.

Reason does not present God as a law-giver for men.

Such a conception a proof of ignorance - in Adam - in the Israelites - in Christians.

Testimony of the Scriptures in favour of reason and the rational view of the Divine.

CHAPTER V. - Of the Ceremonial Law.

Ceremonial law of the Old Testament no part of the Divine universal law, but partial and temporary.
Testimony of the prophets themselves to this Testimony of the New Testament.

How the ceremonial law tended to preserve the Hebrew kingdom.

Christian rites on a similar footing.

What part of the Scripture narratives is one bound to believe?

Authors Endnotes to the Treatise.

A Theologico-Political Treatise

Part 1 - Chapters I to V

PREFACE. (12) I think this is sufficiently plain to all, and will therefore say no more on
the subject.

(21) Such is the chief conclusion I seek to establish in this treatise; but, in order to reach
it, I must first point out the misconceptions which, like scars of our former bondage, still
disfigure our notion of religion, and must expose the false views about the civil authority
which many have most impudently advocated, endeavouring to turn the mind of the people, still
prone to heathen superstition, away from its legitimate rulers, and so bring us again into
slavery. (22) As to the order of my treatise I will speak presently, but first I will recount
the causes which led me to write.

(31) Furthermore, if any Divine light were in them, it would appear from their doctrine. (36)
With these precautions I constructed a method of Scriptural interpretation, and thus equipped
proceeded to inquire - what is prophecy? (37) In what sense did God reveal himself to the prophets,
and why were these particular men - chosen by him? (38) Was it on account of the sublimity
of their thoughts about the Deity and nature, or was it solely on account of their piety? (39)
These questions being answered, I was easily able to conclude, that the authority of the prophets
has weight only in matters of morality, and that their speculative doctrines affect us little.

(40) Next I inquired, why the Hebrews were called God's chosen people, and discovering that
it was only because God had chosen for them a certain strip of territory, where they might
live peaceably and at ease, I learnt that the Law revealed by God to Moses was merely the law
of the individual Hebrew state, therefore that it was binding on none but Hebrews, and not
even on Hebrews after the downfall of their nation. (41) Further, in order to ascertain, whether
it could be concluded from Scripture, that the human understanding standing is naturally corrupt,
I inquired whether the Universal Religion, the Divine Law revealed through the Prophets and
Apostles to the whole human race, differs from that which is taught by the light of natural
reason, whether miracles can take place in violation of the laws of nature, and if so, whether
they imply the existence of God more surely and clearly than events, which we understand plainly
and distinctly through their immediate natural causes.

(42) Now, as in the whole course of my investigation I found nothing taught expressly by Scripture,
which does not agree with our understanding, or which is repugnant thereto, and as I saw that
the prophets taught nothing, which is not very simple and easily to be grasped by all, and
further, that they clothed their leaching in the style, and confirmed it with the reasons,
which would most deeply move the mind of the masses to devotion towards God, I became thoroughly
convinced, that the Bible leaves reason absolutely free, that it has nothing in common with
philosophy, in fact, that Revelation and Philosophy stand on different footings. In order to
set this forth categorically and exhaust the whole question, I point out the way in which the
Bible should be interpreted, and show that all of spiritual questions should be sought from
it alone, and not from the objects of ordinary knowledge. (44) I show that the Word of God
has not been revealed as a certain number of books, was displayed to the prophets as a simple
idea of the mind, namely, obedience to God in singleness of heart, and in the practice of justice
and charity; and I further point out, that this doctrine is set forth in Scripture in accordance
with the opinions and understandings of those, among whom the Apostles and Prophets preached,
to the end that men might receive it willingly, and with their whole heart.

(45) Having thus laid bare the bases of belief, I draw the conclusion that Revelation has obedience
for its sole object, therefore, in purpose no less than in foundation and method, stands entirely
aloof from ordinary knowledge; each has its separate province, neither can be called the handmaid
of the other.

(46) Furthermore, as men's habits of mind differ, so that some more readily embrace one form
of faith, some another, for what moves one to pray may move another only to scoff, I conclude,
in accordance with what has gone before, that everyone should be free to choose for himself
the foundations of his creed, and that faith should be judged only by its fruits; each would
then obey God freely with his whole heart, while nothing would be publicly honoured save justice
and charity.

(47) Having thus drawn attention to the liberty conceded to everyone by the revealed law of
God, I pass on to another part of my subject, and prove that this same liberty can and should
be accorded with safety to the state and the magisterial authority - in fact, that it cannot
be withheld without great danger to peace and detriment to the community.

(48) In order to establish my point, I start from the natural rights of the individual, which
are co-extensive with his desires and power, and from the fact that no one is bound to live
as another pleases, but is the guardian of his own liberty. (49) I show that these rights can
only be transferred to those whom we depute to defend us, who acquire with the duties of defence
the power of ordering our lives, and I thence infer that rulers possess rights only limited
by their power, that they are the sole guardians of justice and liberty, and that their subjects
should act in all things as they dictate: nevertheless, since no one can so utterly abdicate
his own power of self-defence as to cease to be a man, I conclude that no one can be deprived
of his natural rights absolutely, but that subjects, either by tacit agreement, or by social
contract, retain a certain number, which cannot be taken from them without great danger to
the state.

(50) From these considerations I pass on to the Hebrew State, which I describe at some length,
in order to trace the manner in which Religion acquired the force of law, and to touch on other
noteworthy points. (51) I then prove, that the holders of sovereign power are the depositories
and interpreters of religious no less than of civil ordinances, and that they alone have the
right to decide what is just or unjust, pious or impious; lastly, I conclude by showing, that
they best retain this right and secure safety to their state by allowing every man to think
what he likes, and say what he thinks.

(52) Such, Philosophical Reader, are the questions I submit to your notice, counting on your
approval, for the subject matter of the whole book and of the several chapters is important
and profitable. (53) I would say more, but I do not want my preface to extend to a volume,
especially as I know that its leading propositions are to Philosophers but common places. (54)
To the rest of mankind I care not to commend my treatise, for I cannot expect that it contains
anything to please them: I know how deeply rooted are the prejudices embraced under the name
of religion; I am aware that in the mind of the masses superstition is no less deeply rooted
than fear; I recognize that their constancy is mere obstinacy, and that they are led to praise
or blame by impulse rather than reason. (55) Therefore the multitude, and those of like passions
with the multitude, I ask not to read my book; nay, I would rather that they should utterly
neglect it, than that they should misinterpret it after their wont. (56) They would gain no
good themselves, and might prove a stumbling-block to others, whose philosophy is hampered
by the belief that Reason is a mere handmaid to Theology, and whom I seek in this work especially
to benefit. (57) But as there will be many who have neither the leisure, nor, perhaps, the
inclination to read through all I have written, I feel bound here, as at the end of my treatise,
to declare that I have written nothing, which I do not most willingly submit to the examination
and judgment of my country's rulers, and that I am ready to retract anything, which they shall
decide to be repugnant to the laws or prejudicial to the public good. (58) I know that I am
a man and, as a man, liable to error, but against error I have taken scrupulous care, and striven
to keep in entire accordance with the laws of my country, with loyalty, and with morality.

CHAPTER I. - Of Prophecy (1) Prophecy, or revelation is sure knowledge revealed by God to man.

(4) Prophets I will treat of in the next chapter, and at present consider prophecy. This, as
I shall shortly show, is the only instance of a real voice.

(22) We might, perhaps, suppose that the voice with which God called Samuel was real, for in
1 Sam. iii:21, we read, "And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh, for the Lord revealed Himself
to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord;" implying that the appearance of the Lord consisted
in His making Himself known to Samuel through a voice; in other words, that Samuel heard the
Lord speaking. (23) But we are compelled to distinguish between the prophecies of Moses and
those of other prophets, and therefore must decide that this voice was imaginary, a conclusion
further supported by the voice's resemblance to the voice of Eli, which Samuel was in the habit
of hearing, and therefore might easily imagine; when thrice called by the Lord, Samuel supposed
it to have been Eli.

(24) The voice which Abimelech heard was imaginary, for it is written, Gen. xx:6, "And God
said unto him in a dream." (25) So that the will of God was manifest to him, not in waking,
but only, in sleep, that is, when the imagination is most active and uncontrolled. (28) The
discrepancy of the two versions is treated of in Chap. VIII.

(35) Doubtless some mystery lurks in this question which we will discuss more fully below.

(43) However, we get a still more clear confirmation of our position in Num xii:6,7, as follows:
"If there be any prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision"
(i.e. by appearances and signs, for God says of the prophecy of Moses that it was a vision
without signs), "and will speak unto him in a dream " (i.e. not with actual words and an actual
voice). (44) "My servant Moses is not so; with him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently,
and not in dark speeches, and the similitude of the Lord he shall behold," i.e. looking on
me as a friend and not afraid, he speaks with me (cf. Ex xxxiii:17).

(45) This makes it indisputable that the other prophets did not hear a real voice, and we gather
as much from Deut. xxiv:10: "And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses
whom the Lord knew face to face," which must mean that the Lord spoke with none other; for
not even Moses saw the Lord's face. (46) These are the only media of communication between
God and man which I find mentioned in Scripture, and therefore the only ones which may be supposed
or invented. (54) We will now inquire what is meant in the Bible by the Spirit of God breathed
into the prophets, or by the prophets speaking with the Spirit of God; to that end we must
determine the exact signification of the Hebrew word roo'-akh, Strong:7307, commonly translated
spirit.

(55) The word roo'-akh, Strong:7307, literally means a wind, e..q. the south wind, but it is
frequently employed in other derivative significations.

It is used as equivalent to,
(56) (1.) Breath: "Neither is there any spirit in his mouth," Ps. cxxxv:17.
(57) (2.) Life, or breathing: "And his spirit returned to him"
          1 Sam. xxx:12; i.e. he breathed again.
(58) (3.) Courage and strength: "Neither did there remain any more spirit
          in any man," Josh. ii:11; "And the spirit entered into me, and
          made me stand on my feet," Ezek. ii:2.
(59) (4.) Virtue and fitness: "Days should speak, and multitudes of years
          should teach wisdom; but there is a spirit in man,"Job xxxii:7;
          i.e. wisdom is not always found among old men for I now discover
          that it depends on individual virtue and capacity. So, "A man in
          whom is the Spirit," Numbers xxvii:18.
(60) (5.) Habit of mind: "Because he had another spirit with him,"
          Numbers xiv:24; i.e. another habit of mind. "Behold I will pour
          out My Spirit unto you," Prov. i:23.
(61) (6.) Will, purpose, desire, impulse: "Whither the spirit was to go,
          they went," Ezek. 1:12; "That cover with a covering, but not of My
          Spirit," Is. xxx:1; "For the Lord hath poured out on you the
          spirit of deep sleep," Is. xxix:10; "Then was their spirit
          softened," Judges viii:3; "He that ruleth his spirit, is better
          than he that taketh a city," Prov. xvi:32; "He that hath no ru
          over his own spirit," Prov. xxv:28; "Your spirit as fire shall
          devour you," Isaiah xxxiii:l.

From the meaning of disposition we get -
(62) (7.) Passions and faculties. A lofty spirit means pride, a lowly spirit
          humility, an evil spirit hatred and melancholy. So, too, the
          expressions spirits of jealousy, fornication, wisdom, counsel,
          bravery, stand for a jealous, lascivious, wise, prudent, or brave
          mind (for we Hebrews use substantives in preference to
          adjectives), or these various qualities.
(63) (8.) The mind itself, or the life: "Yea, they have all one spirit,"
          Eccles. iii:19 "The spirit shall return to God Who gave it."
(64) (9.) The quarters of the world (from the winds which blow thence), or
          even the side of anything turned towards a particular quarter -
          Ezek. xxxvii:9; xlii:16, 17, 18, 19, &c.

(65) I have already alluded to the way in which things are referred to God, and said to be
of God. (66) (1.) As belonging to His nature, and being, as it were, part of Him;         
e.g the power of God, the eyes of God. (67) (2.) As under His dominion, and depending on His
pleasure; thus the           heavens are called the heavens of the Lord, as being His chariot
and habitation. So Nebuchadnezzar is called the servant of God,           Assyria the scourge
of God, &c. (68) (3.) As dedicated to Him, e.g. the Temple of God, a Nazarene of God,     
the Bread of God. (69) (4.) As revealed through the prophets and not through our natural faculties.
In this sense the Mosaic law is called the law of God. (70) (5.) As being in the superlative
degree. The mirror of Cyprian

Theodor Storm

The Castle - in fact it was a castle - was released on a height, ancient pines and Oak trees with
their tops sticking out of the deep, and above them and the forests and meadows, the spread is below
the mountain, was the sunshine of spring. Inside, however, mourning prevailed, for the only son
of the Earl of unexplained illness was attacked; and the most distinguished
physicians who were called could not the origin of evil be identified.

In the curtained room, the boy was asleep with blood loose face. Two women were sitting each to
one side of the bed, with the strained look of concern regarding
him, one old, in the clothing of a more distinguished servant, the
other, unmistakably, the lady of the house, almost young, but the
traces of past suffering in the pale, guetevollen face.

In the most beautiful days of her youth had the count for her, the less wealthy lady, advertised,
but since nothing was missing even as the spoken word, he had turned away. A rich, beautiful
lady, the poor Fraeulein the handsome husband, and whose rule envied
the easy blooded man was caught up in their love of power, and during
this moved as a mistress in The Castle, which remained in the deserted
Witwenstuebchen her mother.

But the luck of the young countess did not survive. When after-year period the small Kuno given
life, she was swept away by an evil puerperal fever, and when again a year had passed since the
count for his orphaned Soehnlein knew no better mother hand than
that which he had once spurned.

And she forgave him all her silent heart Insult was and now his wife.

She was sitting now awake and caring for the child of her former rival.

"He is sleeping quietly now," said the old woman. "Countess should rest a bit"

"Not so, nurse," said the gentle lady, "I's not needed, and I'm sitting
here so well in my soft chair.

"

"But by the many nights! It's never a sleep, if man were not from the Clothes comes "And after
a while she added." It has not always neglected such given here in the castle. "

"You need not praise me so, nurse!"

"You know it not the story of the mirror of the Cyprian?" in turn,
said the old woman; and denied it as the countess, she went on: "So
I will tell you: it helps dispel the idea.

And just look how the child sleeps, the breath goes out quietly the little mouth! - Take still
the cushion under the cross, and now the little feet on the stool here - and now waiting for a while
that I remember right. "

had then, as the countess sat down in the pillow and nodded to her kindly, began the experienced
servant of the house her story:

"More than a hundred years, even a countess who lived in this castle, which is by all People
only the good countess was called. The name has also been right, for she is humble in her heart
and has been the poor and lowly do not despise us. But a happy Countess has not been since.
If they down in the village help in bringing the homes of Käthner gone, it has looked with sorrow
to the little group of children, often their input in the low doors locked, and thought: 'What
do you not go to would give a single those chubby little angels! " For some ten years she lived
with her husband, but her Marriage remained unblessed, and she was
not, as your Grace, a motherless child of God in the arm down, they
would have the treasure of their love can give. The count, otherwise
a just man and the good countess had faithfully devoted, sometimes
dark started see moreover, that he the heir of his great power was
still not born in you .-- Dear God "- broke off the story teller -"
the rich's missing, and the poor wish often in vain, that their little
group one or two little angels in heaven would have that up there
they could pray for. " (99) So the Psalmist in poetic language declares, xxxiii:6, "By the word of the
Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of His mouth," i.e. by a
mandate issued, as it were, in one breath. (100) Also Ps. cxxxix:7, "Wither shall I go from
Thy Spirit, or whither shall I flee from Thy presence?" i.e. whither shall I go so as to be
beyond Thy power and Thy presence?

(101) Lastly, the Spirit of the Lord is used in Scripture to express the emotions of God, e.g.
His kindness and mercy, Micah ii:7, "Is the Spirit [i.e. the mercy] of the Lord straitened?
(102) Are these cruelties His doings?" (103) Zech. iv:6, "Not by might or by power, but My
Spirit [i.e. mercy], saith the Lord of hosts." (105) So also Haggai ii:5: "So My Spirit remaineth
among you: fear not."

(106) The passage in Isaiah xlviii:16, "And now the Lord and His Spirit hath sent me," may
be taken to refer to God's mercy or His revealed law; for the prophet says, "From the beginning"
(i.e. from the time when I first came to you, to preach God's anger and His sentence forth
against you) "I spoke not in secret; from the time that it was, there am I," and now I am sent
by the mercy of God as a joyful messenger to preach your restoration. (107) Or we may understand
him to mean by the revealed law that he had before come to warn them by the command of the
law (Levit. xix:17) in the same manner under the same conditions as Moses had warned them,
that now, like Moses, he ends by preaching their restoration. (108) But the first explanation
seems to me the best. (112) We find no other means mentioned in Scripture, and therefore must
not invent any. (113) As to the particular law of Nature by which the communications took place,
I confess my ignorance. (115) Everything takes place by the power of God.

(118) However, we are not now inquiring into the causes of prophetic knowledge. (123) All these
expressions are plainly in harmony with the current ideas of God and spirits. (126) Scripture
teaching about the assurance of prophets I will treat of in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II. - OF PROPHETS. (4) Nor is this contrary to ordinary experience and reason. (8)
Yes; it has come to this! (14) God also says to Moses: "And let this be a sign that I have
sent thee." (17) Moreover, Scripture warrants the statement that the certitude of the prophets
was not mathematical, but moral. (31) Therefore the signs varied according to the individual
prophet. (36) And so with revelations perceived through visions. (41) All of which we will
illustrate from Scripture.

(42) The first point is proved from the case of Elisha, who, in order to prophecy to Jehoram,
asked for a harp, and was unable to perceive the Divine purpose till he had been recreated
by its music; then, indeed, he prophesied to Jehoram and to his allies glad tidings, which
previously he had been unable to attain to because he was angry with the king, and these who
are angry with anyone can imagine evil of him, but not good. (43) The theory that God does
not reveal Himself to the angry or the sad, is a mere dream: for God revealed to Moses while
angry, the terrible slaughter of the firstborn, and did so without the intervention of a harp.
(44) To Cain in his rage, God was revealed, and to Ezekiel, impatient with anger, was revealed
the contumacy and wretchedness of the Jews. (45) Jeremiah, miserable and weary of life, prophesied
the disasters of the Hebrews, so that Josiah would not consult him, but inquired of a woman,
inasmuch as it was more in accordance with womanly nature that God should reveal His mercy
thereto. (46) So, Micaiah never prophesied good to Ahab, though other true prophets had done
so, but invariably evil. (46) Thus we see that individual prophets were by temperament more
fitted for one sort of revelation than another.

(47) The style of the prophecy also varied according to the eloquence of the individual prophet.
(50) Compare, for instance, chap. i. of the courtly Isaiah, verse 11 to verse 20, with chap.
v. of the countryman Amos, verses 21-24. (51) Compare also the order and reasoning of the prophecies
of Jeremiah, written in Idumaea (chap. xhx.), with the order and reasoning of Obadiah. (52)
Compare, lastly, Isa. xl:19, 20, and xliv:8, with Hosea viii:6, and xiii:2. And so on.

(54) There was, moreover, a certain variation in the visions vouchsafed to the prophets, and
in the symbols by which they expressed them, for Isaiah saw the glory of the Lord departing
from the Temple in a different form from that presented to Ezekiel. (55) The Rabbis, indeed,
maintain that both visions were really the same, but that Ezekiel, being a countryman, was
above measure impressed by it, and therefore set it forth in full detail; but unless there
is a trustworthy tradition on the subject, which I do not for a moment believe, this theory
is plainly an invention. Isaiah saw seraphim with six wings, Ezekiel beasts with four wings;
Isaiah saw God clothed and sitting on a royal throne, Ezekiel saw Him in the likeness of a
fire; each doubtless saw God under the form in which he usually imagined Him.

(56) Further, the visions varied in clearness as well as in details; for the revelations of
Zechariah were too obscure to be understood by the prophet without explanation, as appears
from his narration of them; the visions of Daniel could not be understood by him even after
they had been explained, and this obscurity did not arise from the difficulty of the matter
revealed (for being merely human affairs, these only transcended human capacity in being future),
but solely in the fact that Daniel's imagination was not so capable for prophecy while he was
awake as while he was asleep; and this is further evident from the fact that at the very beginning
of the vision he was so terrified that he almost despaired of his strength. (57) Thus, on account
of the inadequacy of his imagination and his strength, the things revealed were so obscure
to him that he could not understand them even after they had been explained. (58) Here we may
note that the words heard by Daniel, were, as we have shown above, simply imaginary, so that
it is hardly wonderful that in his frightened state he imagined them so confusedly and obscurely
that afterwards he could make nothing of them. (59) Those who say that God did not wish to
make a clear revelation, do not seem to have read the words of the angel, who expressly says
that he came to make the prophet understand what should befall his people in the latter days
(Dan. x:14).

(60) The revelation remained obscure because no one was found, at that time, with imagination
sufficiently strong to conceive it more clearly. (61) Lastly, the prophets, to whom it was
revealed that God would take away Elijah, wished to persuade Elisha that he had been taken
somewhere where they would find him; showing sufficiently clearly that they had not understood
God's revelation aright.

(62) There is no need to set this out more amply, for nothing is more plain in the Bible than
that God endowed some prophets with far greater gifts of prophecy than others. He launched after dinner, very uneasy about her whereabouts, in evening dress
and straw hat in front of the hotel at the foot of the terrace, when he suddenly the nun-like sisters
emerge with the teacher and four steps behind them Tadzio in the light of arc lamps saw.
 (64) (I speak, be it understood, solely
of matters speculative, for in regard to uprightness and morality the case is widely different.)
(65) From thence I shall conclude that prophecy never rendered the prophets more learned, but
left them with their former opinions, and that we are, therefore, not at all bound to trust
them in matters of intellect. (70) Such quibblers excite my wonder! (82) Adam evidently only
knew the Deity as the Creator of all things.

(96) Jacob, according to Aben Ezra's opinion, therefore admonished his sons when he wished
them to seek out a new country, that they should prepare themselves for a new worship, and
lay aside the worship of strange, gods - that is, of the gods of the land where they were (Gen.
xxxv:2, 3).

(97) David, in telling Saul that he was compelled by the king's persecution to live away from
his country, said that he was driven out from the heritage of the Lord, and sent to worship
other gods (1 Sam. xxvi:19). (98) Lastly, he believed that this Being or Deity had His habitation
in the heavens (Deut. xxxiii:27), an opinion very common among the Gentiles.

(103) When God would reveal to Moses that the Israelites, because they worshipped the calf,
were to be placed in the same category as other nations, He said (ch. xxxiii:2, 3), that He
would send an angel (that is, a being who should have charge of the Israelites, instead of
the Supreme Being), and that He Himself would no longer remain among them; thus leaving Moses
no ground for supposing that the Israelites were more beloved by God than the other nations
whose guardianship He had entrusted to other beings or angels (vide verse 16). (112) See Proverbs
xvi:22, 23.

(113) But let us return to the prophets whose conflicting opinions we have undertaken to note.
(114) The expressed ideas of Ezekiel seemed so diverse from those of Moses to the Rabbis who
have left us the extant prophetic books (as is told in the treatise of Sabbathus, i:13, 2),
that they had serious thoughts of omitting his prophecy from the canon, and would doubtless
have thus excluded it if a certain Hananiah had not undertaken to explain it; a task which
(as is there narrated) he with great zeal and labour accomplished. (115) How he did so does
not sufficiently appear, whether it was by writing a commentary which has now perished, or
by altering Ezekiel's words and audaciously - striking out phrases according to his fancy.
(116) However this may be, chapter xviii. certainly does not seem to agree with Exodus xxxiv:7,
Jeremiah xxxii:18, &c.

(117 ) Samuel believed that the Lord never repented of anything He had decreed (1 Sam. xv:29),
for when Saul was sorry for his sin, and wished to worship God and ask for forgiveness, Samuel
said that the Lord would not go back from his decree.

(118) To Jeremiah, on the other hand, it was revealed that, "If that nation against whom I
(the Lord) have pronounced, turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought
to do unto them. (Jer. xviii:8-10). (120) Joel (ii:13) taught that the Lord repented Him only
of evil. (121) Lastly, it is clear from Gen iv: 7 that a man can overcome the temptations of
sin, and act righteously; for this doctrine is told to Cain, though, as we learn from Josephus
and the Scriptures, he never did so overcome them. 

He did not sleep the best, because of the impending re-awakening him uneasy. When on Morning,
the window opened, the sky was still obtained, but the air seemed fresher, and - it began even
his repentance. Was this termination is not in a hurry and mistakenly the act of a sick and
humble state been? If he had a little retained he would have it without despair so quickly Venetian in
the attempt to adapt the arriving air or improvement in the weather can be, he was now, rather
than haste and load, a morning on the beach like yesterday before. Too late. Now he had to continue
to want to what he had wanted yesterday. He dressed and went to breakfast at eight clock to the ground
floor down.
 (134) He adapted them to each man's opinions
and principles.

(138) Lastly, we should say, exactly the same of the apostolic signs and reasonings, but there
is no need to go further into the subject. (140) Let it suffice, then, to have indicated a
few instances of general application, and let the curious reader consider others by himself.
(142) I must then come to a conclusion about the vocation of the Hebrews, all of which I shall
do in the ensuing chapter.

CHAPTER III.  OF THE VOCATION OF THE HEBREWS, AND WHETHER THE GIFT OF PROPHECY WAS PECULIAR
TO THEM. (11) What that object was, I will duly show.

(14) So that to say that everything happens according to natural laws, and to say that everything
is ordained by the decree and ordinance of God, is the same thing.

(17) We can now easily understand what is meant by the election of God. (36) But there is no
need here to go into this point at more length. (41) This sufficiently shows that before He
founded the Israelitish nation God constituted kings and priests in Jerusalem, and ordained
for them rites and laws. (42) Whether He did so prophetically is, as I have said, not sufficiently
clear; but I am sure of this, that Abraham, whilst he sojourned in the city, lived scrupulously
according to these laws, for Abraham had received no special rites from God; and yet it is
stated (Gen. xxvi:5), that he observed the worship, the precepts, the statutes, and the laws
of God, which must be interpreted to mean the worship, the statutes, the precepts, and the
laws of king Melchisedek. (43) Malachi chides the Jews as follows (i:10-11.): "Who is there
among you that will shut the doors? [of the Temple]; neither do ye kindle fire on mine altar
for nought. (44) I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord of Hosts. (46) These words, which,
unless we do violence to them, could only refer to the current period, abundantly testify that
the Jews of that time were not more beloved by God than other nations, that God then favoured
other nations with more miracles than He vouchsafed to the Jews, who had then partly recovered
their empire without miraculous aid; and, lastly, that the Gentiles possessed rites and ceremonies
acceptable to God. The bus stopped there once again, and led him above the rough seas
on a straight path to the hotel bathrooms. The little mustachioed manager in a curly frock coat came to
greet them down the flight of stairs.

He was soft spoken and was embarrassed for himself and the Institute about the incident. With conviction,
Aschenbach left the baggage there while his room was prepared. Another
worse room was available.
 In regard
to other matters, wherein man's true happiness consists, they were on a par with the rest of
the nations.

(48) When, therefore, it is said in Scripture (Deut. iv:7) that the Lord is not so nigh to
any other nation as He is to the Jews, reference is only made to their government, and to the
period when so many miracles happened to them, for in respect of intellect and virtue - that
is, in respect of blessedness - God was, as we have said already, and are now demonstrating,
equally gracious to all. (49) Scripture itself bears testimony to this fact, for the Psalmist
says (cxlv:18), "The Lord is near unto all them that call upon Him, to all that call upon Him
in truth." (50) So in the same Psalm, verse 9, "The Lord is good to all, and His tender mercies
are over all His works." In Ps. xxxiii:16, it is clearly stated that God has granted to all
men the same intellect, in these words, He fashioneth their hearts alike." The heart was considered
by the Hebrews, as I suppose everyone knows, to be the seat of the soul and the intellect.

