LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 10.

Chapter 46 Enchantments and Enchanters

THE largest annual event in New Orleans is a something which we arrived too late to sample--the
Mardi-Gras festivities. I saw the procession of the Mystic Crew of Comus there, twenty-four
years ago--with knights and nobles and so on, clothed in silken and golden Paris-made gorgeousnesses,
planned and bought for that single night's use; and in their train all manner of giants, dwarfs,
monstrosities, and other diverting grotesquerie--a startling and wonderful sort of show, as
it filed solemnly and silently down the street in the light of its smoking and flickering torches;
but it is said that in these latter days the spectacle is mightily augmented, as to cost, splendor,
and variety. There is a chief personage--'Rex;' and if I remember rightly, neither this king
nor any of his great following of subordinates is known to any outsider. All these people are
gentlemen of position and consequence; and it is a proud thing to belong to the organization;
so the mystery in which they hide their personality is merely for romance's sake, and not on
account of the police.

Mardi-Gras is of course a relic of the French and Spanish occupation; but I judge that the
religious feature has been pretty well knocked out of it now. Sir Walter has got the advantage
of the gentlemen of the cowl and rosary, and he will stay.  His medieval business, supplemented
by the monsters and the oddities, and the pleasant creatures from fairy- land, is finer to
look at than the poor fantastic inventions and performances of the reveling rabble of the priest's
day, and serves quite as well, perhaps, to emphasize the day and admonish men that the grace-line
between the worldly season and the holy one is reached.

This Mardi-Gras pageant was the exclusive possession of New Orleans until recently.  But now
it has spread to Memphis and St. Louis and Baltimore.  It has probably reached its limit. It
is a thing which could hardly exist in the practical North; would certainly last but a very
brief time; as brief a time as it would last in London.  For the soul of it is the romantic,
not the funny and the grotesque.  Take away the romantic mysteries, the kings and knights and
big-sounding titles, and Mardi-Gras would die, down there in the South. The very feature that
keeps it alive in the South--girly-girly romance--would kill it in the North or in London.
Puck and Punch, and the press universal, would fall upon it and make merciless fun of it, and
its first exhibition would be also its last.

Against the crimes of the French Revolution and of Bonaparte may be set two compensating benefactions:
the Revolution broke the chains of the ANCIEN REGIME and of the Church, and made of a nation
of abject slaves a nation of freemen; and Bonaparte instituted the setting of merit above birth,
and also so completely stripped the divinity from royalty, that whereas crowned heads in Europe
were gods before, they are only men, since, and can never be gods again, but only figureheads,
and answerable for their acts like common clay. Such benefactions as these compensate the temporary
harm which Bonaparte and the Revolution did, and leave the world in debt to them for these
great and permanent services to liberty, humanity, and progress.

Then comes Sir Walter Scott with his enchantments, and by his single might checks this wave
of progress, and even turns it back; sets the world in love with dreams and phantoms; with
decayed and swinish forms of religion; with decayed and degraded systems of government; with
the sillinesses and emptinesses, sham grandeurs, sham gauds, and sham chivalries of a brainless
and worthless long-vanished society. He did measureless harm; more real and lasting harm, perhaps,
than any other individual that ever wrote.  Most of the world has now outlived good part of
these harms, though by no means all of them; but in our South they flourish pretty forcefully
still.  Not so forcefully as half a generation ago, perhaps, but still forcefully. There, the
genuine and wholesome civilization of the nineteenth century is curiously confused and commingled
with the Walter Scott Middle-Age sham civilization; and so you have practical, common-sense,
progressive ideas, and progressive works; mixed up with the duel, the inflated speech, and
the jejune romanticism of an absurd past that is dead, and out of charity ought to be buried.
But for the Sir Walter disease, the character of the Southerner--or Southron, according to
Sir Walter's starchier way of phrasing it--would be wholly modern, in place of modern and medieval
mixed, and the South would be fully a generation further advanced than it is. It was Sir Walter
that made every gentleman in the South a Major or a Colonel, or a General or a Judge, before
the war; and it was he, also, that made these gentlemen value these bogus decorations. For
it was he that created rank and caste down there, and also reverence for rank and caste, and
pride and pleasure in them. Enough is laid on slavery, without fathering upon it these creations
and contributions of Sir Walter. It seems a little harsh toward a dead man to say that we never
should have had any war but for Sir Walter; and yet something of a plausible argument might,
perhaps, be made in support of that wild proposition.  The Southerner of the American Revolution
owned slaves; so did the Southerner of the Civil War: but the former resembles the latter as
an Englishman resembles a Frenchman. The change of character can be traced rather more easily
to Sir Walter's influence than to that of any other thing or person.

One may observe, by one or two signs, how deeply that influence penetrated, and how strongly
it holds. This sort of literature being the fashion in both sections of the country, there
was opportunity for the fairest competition; and as a consequence, the South was able to show
as many well-known literary names, proportioned to population, as the North could.

But a change has come, and there is no opportunity now for a fair competition between North
and South. For the North has thrown out that old inflated style, whereas the Southern writer
still clings to it-- clings to it and has a restricted market for his wares, as a consequence.
There is as much literary talent in the South, now, as ever there was, of course; but its work
can gain but slight currency under present conditions; the authors write for the past, not
the present; they use obsolete forms, and a dead language. But when a Southerner of genius
writes modern English, his book goes upon crutches no longer, but upon wings; and they carry
it swiftly all about America and England, and through the great English reprint publishing
houses of Germany--as witness the experience of Mr. Cable and Uncle Remus, two of the very
few Southern authors who do not write in the Southern style. Instead of three or four widely-known
literary names, the South ought to have a dozen or two--and will have them when Sir Walter's
time is out.  As far as our South is concerned, the good work done by Cervantes is pretty nearly
a dead letter, so effectually has Scott's pernicious work undermined it.

Chapter 47 Uncle Remus and Mr. Cable

MR.  JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS ('Uncle Remus') was to arrive from Atlanta at seven o'clock Sunday
morning; so we got up and received him. We were able to detect him among the crowd of arrivals
at the hotel-counter by his correspondence with a description of him which had been furnished
us from a trustworthy source. He was said to be undersized, red-haired, and somewhat freckled.
He was the only man in the party whose outside tallied with this bill of particulars.  He was
said to be very shy.  He is a shy man. Of this there is no doubt.  It may not show on the surface,
but the shyness is there.  After days of intimacy one wonders to see that it is still in about
as strong force as ever. There is a fine and beautiful nature hidden behind it, as all know
who have read the Uncle Remus book; and a fine genius, too, as all know by the same sign. 
I seem to be talking quite freely about this neighbor; but in talking to the public I am but
talking to his personal friends, and these things are permissible among friends.

He deeply disappointed a number of children who had flocked eagerly to Mr. Cable's house to
get a glimpse of the illustrious sage and oracle of the nation's nurseries.  They said--

'Why, he 's white!'

They were grieved about it.  So, to console them, the book was brought, that they might hear
Uncle Remus's Tar-Baby story from the lips of Uncle Remus himself--or what, in their outraged
eyes, was left of him. But it turned out that he had never read aloud to people, and was too
shy to venture the attempt now.  Mr. Cable and I read from books of ours, to show him what
an easy trick it was; but his immortal shyness was proof against even this sagacious strategy,
so we had to read about Brer Rabbit ourselves.

Mr. Harris ought to be able to read the negro dialect better than anybody else, for in the
matter of writing it he is the only master the country has produced.  Mr. Cable is the only
master in the writing of French dialects that the country has produced; and he reads them in
perfection.  It was a great treat to hear him read about Jean-ah Poquelin, and about Innerarity
and his famous 'pigshoo' representing 'Louisihanna RIF-fusing to Hanter the Union,' along with
passages of nicely-shaded German dialect from a novel which was still in manuscript.

It came out in conversation, that in two different instances Mr. Cable got into grotesque trouble
by using, in his books, next-to-impossible French names which nevertheless happened to be borne
by living and sensitive citizens of New Orleans. His names were either inventions or were borrowed
from the ancient and obsolete past, I do not now remember which; but at any rate living bearers
of them turned up, and were a good deal hurt at having attention directed to themselves and
their affairs in so excessively public a manner.

Mr. Warner and I had an experience of the same sort when we wrote the book called 'The Gilded
Age.'  There is a character in it called 'Sellers.' I do not remember what his first name was,
in the beginning; but anyway, Mr. Warner did not like it, and wanted it improved. He asked
me if I was able to imagine a person named 'Eschol Sellers.' Of course I said I could not,
without stimulants.  He said that away out West, once, he had met, and contemplated, and actually
shaken hands with a man bearing that impossible name--'Eschol Sellers.' He added--

'It was twenty years ago; his name has probably carried him off before this; and if it hasn't,
he will never see the book anyhow. We will confiscate his name.  The name you are using is
common, and therefore dangerous; there are probably a thousand Sellerses bearing it, and the
whole horde will come after us; but Eschol Sellers is a safe name--it is a rock.'

So we borrowed that name; and when the book had been out about a week, one of the stateliest
and handsomest and most aristocratic looking white men that ever lived, called around, with
the most formidable libel suit in his pocket that ever--well, in brief, we got his permission
to suppress an edition of ten million {footnote [Figures taken from memory, and probably incorrect.
Think it was more.]} copies of the book and change that name to 'Mulberry Sellers' in future
editions.

Chapter 48 Sugar and Postage

ONE day, on the street, I encountered the man whom, of all men, I most wished to see--Horace
Bixby; formerly pilot under me--or rather, over me--now captain of the great steamer 'City
of Baton Rouge,' the latest and swiftest addition to the Anchor Line. The same slender figure,
the same tight curls, the same springy step, the same alertness, the same decision of eye and
answering decision of hand, the same erect military bearing; not an inch gained or lost in
girth, not an ounce gained or lost in weight, not a hair turned. It is a curious thing, to
leave a man thirty-five years old, and come back at the end of twenty-one years and find him
still only thirty-five. I have not had an experience of this kind before, I believe. There
were some crow's-feet, but they counted for next to nothing, since they were inconspicuous.

His boat was just in.  I had been waiting several days for her, purposing to return to St.
Louis in her.  The captain and I joined a party of ladies and gentlemen, guests of Major Wood,
and went down the river fifty-four miles, in a swift tug, to ex-Governor Warmouth's sugar plantation.
Strung along below the city, were a number of decayed, ram- shackly, superannuated old steamboats,
not one of which had I ever seen before. They had all been built, and worn out, and thrown
aside, since I was here last.  This gives one a realizing sense of the frailness of a Mississippi
boat and the briefness of its life.

Six miles below town a fat and battered brick chimney, sticking above the magnolias and live-oaks,
was pointed out as the monument erected by an appreciative nation to celebrate the battle of
New Orleans--Jackson's victory over the British, January 8, 1815.  The war had ended, the two
nations were at peace, but the news had not yet reached New Orleans. If we had had the cable
telegraph in those days, this blood would not have been spilt, those lives would not have been
wasted; and better still, Jackson would probably never have been president. We have gotten
over the harms done us by the war of 1812, but not over some of those done us by Jackson's
presidency.

The Warmouth plantation covers a vast deal of ground, and the hospitality of the Warmouth mansion
is graduated to the same large scale. We saw steam-plows at work, here, for the first time.
The traction engine travels about on its own wheels, till it reaches the required spot; then
it stands still and by means of a wire rope pulls the huge plow toward itself two or three
hundred yards across the field, between the rows of cane. The thing cuts down into the black
mold a foot and a half deep. The plow looks like a fore-and-aft brace of a Hudson river steamer,
inverted. When the negro steersman sits on one end of it, that end tilts down near the ground,
while the other sticks up high in air.  This great see-saw goes rolling and pitching like a
ship at sea, and it is not every circus rider that could stay on it.

The plantation contains two thousand six hundred acres; six hundred and fifty are in cane;
and there is a fruitful orange grove of five thousand trees.  The cane is cultivated after
a modern and intricate scientific fashion, too elaborate and complex for me to attempt to describe;
but it lost $40,000 last year.  I forget the other details. However, this year's crop will
reach ten or twelve hundred tons of sugar, consequently last year's loss will not matter. These
troublesome and expensive scientific methods achieve a yield of a ton and a half and from that
to two tons, to the acre; which is three or four times what the yield of an acre was in my time.

The drainage-ditches were everywhere alive with little crabs-- 'fiddlers.'  One saw them scampering
sidewise in every direction whenever they heard a disturbing noise. Expensive pests, these
crabs; for they bore into the levees, and ruin them.

