"In that quiet retreat you should personally and tenderly learn to know each rosebud, shrub,
vine, creeper, tree, rock, glade, dell, of your own estate. You should yourself design the
planting, paths, roads, the flower-garden, the water-garden, the wood-garden, the fernery,
the lily-pond, the wild-garden, and the kitchen garden."

Not everyone is so happily situated as to be able to follow this advice in its entirety, but
many can make a modest effort in this direction: the kitchen-garden may appeal to some who
have no appreciation for the wild flowers, and who scorn to cultivate such tastes.

One warning is, however, here in order: The cultivation of the garden or the field for utilitarian
purposes is inevitably associated with the maxim, "Hoe out your row"--an excellent maxim for
the idle and disorderly, but not to be taken too literally by the over-exacting and methodical
business man who is trying to make the radical change in his view of life necessary to free
his mind from the incubus of worry. Nor must the amateur husbandman scan with too anxious eye
the weather map and the clouds. If he mind these warnings he may learn to say,--

  "For me kind Nature wakes her genial pow'r,
    Suckles each herb, and spreads out ev'ry flower,
  Annual for me, the grape, the rose renew,
    The juice nectareous, and the balmy dew."

The over-conscientious individual may object that it is selfish to consider his own comfort
when he has work to do for others. But expending too freely of our nervous energies, even in
a good cause, is like giving to charity so much of our substance that we in turn are obliged
to lean on others for support.

In properly conserving our own energy we may be lightening the ultimate burden of others. There
is no place for selfishness in Haeckel's philosophy regarding the proper balance between duty
to one's self and duty to others. Nor was selfishness a failing of the Quaker poet who idealized

  "The flawless symmetry of man,
  The poise of heart and mind."

IX.

SLEEPLESSNESS

He shall enjoy the same tranquility in his sleep as when awake.

Digby's Epicurus, Maxim xl.

Sleeplessness is due, in the majority of cases, to a faulty habit of mind. The preparation
for a sleepless night begins with the waking hours, is continued through the day, and reaches
its maximum when we cease from the occupations which have in some degree diverted our attention
from harassing thoughts, and retire, to struggle, in darkness and solitude, with the worries,
doubts, regrets, and forebodings, which now assume gigantic and fantastic shapes.

He who would sleep at night must regulate his day, first, by not undertaking more than he can
accomplish without undue stress, and, second, by carrying through what he does undertake, as
far as he may, without the running accompaniment of undue solicitude, anxious doubts, and morbid
fears discussed in the preceding sections. It is futile to expect that a fretful, impatient,
and over-anxious frame of mind, continuing through the day and every day, will be suddenly
replaced at night by the placid and comfortable mental state which shall insure a restful sleep.

Before proceeding, then, to the immediate measures for inducing sleep, let us consider the
suitable preparatory measures.

