In Lhassa and many other sacred places fanatical pilgrims make circumambulations, sometimes
for miles and miles, and for days together, covering the entire distance lying flat upon their
bodies.... From the ceiling of the temple hang hundreds of long strips, katas, offered by pilgrims
to the temple, and becoming so many flying prayers when hung up--for mechanical praying in
every way is prominent in Thibet.... Thus instead of having to learn by heart long and varied
prayers, all you have to do is to stuff the entire prayer-book into a prayer-wheel, and revolve
it while repeating as fast as you can four words meaning, "O God, the gem emerging from the
lotus-flower.". . . . The attention of the pilgrims is directed to a large box, or often a
big bowl, where they may deposit whatever offerings they can spare, and it must be said that
their religious ideas are so strongly developed that they will dispose of a considerable portion
of their money in this fashion.... The Lamas are very clever in many ways, and have a great
hold over the entire country. They are ninety per cent of them unscrupulous scamps, depraved
in every way and given to every sort of vice. So are the women Lamas. They live and sponge
on the credulity and ignorance of the crowds; it is to maintain this ignorance, upon which
their luxurious life depends, that foreign influence of every kind is strictly kept out of
the country.

The Butcher-Gods

In this last sentence we have summed up the fundamental fact about institutionalized religion.
Wherever belief and ritual have become the means of livelihood of a class, all innovation will
of necessity be taken as an attack upon that class; it will be literally a crime--robbing the
priests of their age-long privileges. And of course they will oppose the robber--using every
weapon of terrorism, both of this world and the next. They will require the submission, not
merely of their own people, but of their neighbors, and their jealousy of rival priestly castes
will be a cause of wars. The story of the early days of mankind is a sickening record of torture
and slaughter in the name of ten thousand butcher-gods.

Thus, for example, we read in the Hebrew religious records how the priests were engaged in
establishing the prestige of a fetish called "the ark"; and how the people of one tribe violated
this fetish and wakened the wrath of Jehovah, the god.

This terrible old Hebrew divinity said of himself that he was "a jealous god". Throughout the
time of his sway he issued through his ministers precise instructions for the most revolting
cruelties, the extermination of whole nations of men, women and children, whose sole offense
was that they did not pay tribute to Jehovah's priests.

The records of this Jehovah are full of similar horrors. He sent his chosen people out to destroy
the Midianites, and they slew all the males, but this was not sufficient, and Moses was wroth,
and commanded them to kill all the married women, and to take the single women "for themselves".
We are told that sixteen thousand single women were spared, of whom "the Lord's tribute was
thirty and two!" In the Book of Joshua we read that he had an interview with a supernatural
personage called "the captain of the Lord's host", and how this captain had given to him a
magic spell which would destroy the city of Jericho. The city should be accursed, "even it
and all that are therein, to the Lord"; every living thing except one traitor-harlot was to
be slaughtered, and all the wealth of the city reserved to the priestly caste.

