So that my head is full of care and weariness in my employment. Thence home, and there my mind
being a little lightened by my morning's work in the arguments I have now laid together in
better method for our defence to the Parliament, I to talk with my wife; and in lieu of a coach
this year, I have got my wife to be contented with her closet being made up this summer, and
going into the country this summer for a month or two, to my father's, and there Mercer and
Deb.  and Jane shall go with her, which I the rather do for the entertaining my wife, and preventing
of fallings out between her and my father or Deb., which uses to be the fate of her going into
the country.  After dinner by coach to Westminster, and there to St. Margaret's church, thinking
to have seen Betty Michell, but she was not there, but met her father and mother and with them
to her father's house, where I never was before, but was mighty much made of, with some good
strong waters, which they have from their son Michell, and mighty good people they are.  Thence
to Mrs. Martin's, where I have not been also a good while, and with great difficulty, company
being there, did get an opportunity to hazer what I would con her, and here I was mightily
taken with a starling which she hath, that was the King's, which he kept in his bedchamber;
and do whistle and talk the most and best that ever I heard anything in my life.  Thence to
visit Sir H. Cholmly, who continues still sick of his cold, and thence calling, but in vain,
to speak with Sir G. Carteret at his house in Lincoln's Inn Fields, where I spoke with nobody,
but home, where spent the evening talking with W. Hewer about business of the House, and declaring
my expectation of all our being turned out.  Hither comes Carcasse to me about business, and
there did confess to me of his own accord his having heretofore discovered as a complaint against
Sir W. Batten, Sir W. Pen and me that we did prefer the paying of some men to man "The Flying
Greyhound" to others, by order under our hands.  The thing upon recollection I believe is true,
and do hope no great matter can be made of it, but yet I would be glad to have my name out
of it, which I shall labour to do; in the mean time it weighs as a new trouble on my mind,
and did trouble me all night.  So without supper to bed, my eyes being also a little overwrought
of late that I could not stay up to read.

2nd.  Up and betimes to the office, where I did much business, and several come to me, and
among others I did prepare Mr. Warren, and by and by Sir D. Gawden, about what presents I have
had from them, that they may not publish them, or if they do, that in truth I received none
on the account of the Navy but Tangier, and this is true to the former, and in both that I
never asked any thing of them.  I must do the like with the rest.  At noon home to dinner,
where was Mercer, and very merry as I could be with my mind so full of business, and so with
my wife, her and the girl, to the King's house to see the "Virgin Martyr" again, which do mightily
please me, but above all the musique at the coming down of the angel, which at this hearing
the second time, do still commend me as nothing ever did, and the other musique is nothing
to it.  Thence with my wife to the 'Change, and so, calling at the Cocke ale house, we home,
and there I settle to business, and with my people preparing my great answer to the Parliament
for the office about tickets till past 1 a o'clock at night, and then home to supper and to
bed, keeping Mr. Gibson all night with me.  At noon rose and to dinner.  My wife abroad with
Mercer and Deb.  buying of things, but I with my clerks home to dinner, and thence presently
down with Lord Brouncker, W. Pen, T. Harvy, T. Middleton, and Mr. Tippets, who first took his
place this day at the table, as a Commissioner, in the room of Commissioner Pett.  So to supper
and to bed.

4th.  Up betimes and with Sir W. Pen in his coach to White Hall, there to wait upon the Duke
of York and the Commissioners of the Treasury, [Sir] W. Coventry and Sir John Duncombe, who
do declare that they cannot find the money we demand, and we that less than what we demand
will not set out the fleet intended, and so broke up, with no other conclusion than that they
would let us have what they could get and we would improve that as well as we could.  So God
bless us, and prepare us against the consequences of these matters.  Thence, it being a cold
wet day, I home with Sir J. Minnes in his coach, and called by the way at my bookseller's and
took home with me Kercher's Musurgia--very well bound, but I had no comfort to look upon them,
but as soon as I come home fell to my work at the office, shutting the doors, that we, I and
my clerks, might not be interrupted, and so, only with room for a little dinner, we very busy
all the day till night that the officers met for me to give them the heads of what I intended
to say, which I did with great discontent to see them all rely on me that have no reason at
all to trouble myself about it, nor have any thanks from them for my labour, but contrarily
Brouncker looked mighty dogged, as thinking that I did not intend to do it so as to save him.
This troubled me so much as, together with the shortness of the time and muchness of the business,
did let me be at it till but about ten at night, and then quite weary, and dull, and vexed,
I could go no further, but resolved to leave the rest to to-morrow morning, and so in full
discontent and weariness did give over and went home, with[out] supper vexed and sickish to
bed, and there slept about three hours, but then waked, and never in so much trouble in all
my life of mind, thinking of the task I have upon me, and upon what dissatisfactory grounds,
and what the issue of it may be to me.

5th.  With these thoughts I lay troubling myself till six o'clock, restless, and at last getting
my wife to talk to me to comfort me, which she at last did, and made me resolve to quit my
hands of this Office, and endure the trouble of it no longer than till I can clear myself of
it.  After the play, home with W. Pen, and there to my wife, whom W. Hewer had told of my success,
and she overjoyed, and I also as to my particular; and, after talking awhile, I betimes to
bed, having had no quiet rest a good while.

6th.  Thence Brouncker and I to the Committee of Miscarriages sitting in the Court of Wards,
expecting with Sir D. Gawden to have been heard against Prince Rupert's complaints for want
of victuals.  But the business of Holmes's charge against Sir Jer. Smith, which is a most shameful
scandalous thing for Flag officers to accuse one another of, and that this should be heard
here before men that understand it not at all, and after it hath been examined and judged in
before the King and Lord High Admirall and other able seamen to judge, it is very hard.  But
this business did keep them all the afternoon, so we not heard but put off to another day.
A very silly play, only great variety of dances, and those most excellently done, especially
one part by one Hanes, only lately come thither from the Nursery, an understanding fellow,
but yet, they say, hath spent L1000 a-year before he come thither.  This day my wife and I
full of thoughts about Mrs. Pierces sending me word that she, and my old company, Harris and
Knipp, would come and dine with us next Wednesday, how we should do-to receive or put them
off, my head being, at this time, so full of business, and my wife in no mind to have them
neither, and yet I desire it.  Come to no resolution tonight.  Home from the playhouse to the
office, where I wrote what I had to write, and among others to my father to congratulate my
sister's marriage, and so home to supper a little and then to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  At my sending to desire it, Sir J. Robinson, Lieutenant of the Tower, did
call me with his coach, and carried me to White Hall, where met with very many people still
that did congratulate my speech the other day in the House of Commons, and I find all the world
almost rings of it.  He would be glad, too, that I could find anything proper for his taking
notice against Sir F. Hollis. At noon, after sermon, I to dinner with Sir G. Carteret to Lincoln's
Inn Fields, where I find mighty deal of company--a solemn day for some of his and her friends,
and dine in the great dining-room above stairs, where Sir G. Carteret himself, and I, and his
son, at a little table by, the great table being full of strangers.  Here my Lady Jem. do promise
to come, and bring my Lord Hinchingbroke and his lady some day this week, to dinner to me,
which I am glad of.  After dinner, I up with her husband, Sir Philip Carteret, to his closet,
where, beyond expectation, I do find many pretty things, wherein he appears to be ingenious,
such as in painting, and drawing, and making of watches, and such kind of things, above my
expectation; though, when all is done, he is a shirke, who owns his owing me L10 for his lady
two or three years ago, and yet cannot provide to pay me.  The company by and by parted, and
G. Carteret and I to White Hall, where I set him down and took his coach as far as the Temple,
it raining, and there took a hackney and home, and so had my head combed, and then to bed.

9th.  Thence I with Lord Brouncker, and did take up his mistress, Williams, and so to the 'Change,
only to shew myself, and did a little business there, and so home to dinner, and then to the
office busy till the evening, and then to the Excize Office, where I find Mr. Ball in a mighty
trouble that he is to be put out of his place at Midsummer, the whole Commission being to cease,
and the truth is I think they are very fair dealing men, all of them.  Here I did do a little
business, and then to rights home, and there dispatched many papers, and so home late to supper
and to bed, being eased of a great many thoughts, and yet have a great many more to remove
as fast as I can, my mind being burdened with them, having been so much employed upon the public
business of the office in their defence before the Parliament of late, and the further cases
that do attend it.

10th.  Up, and to the office betimes, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner with my
clerks, and after dinner comes Kate Joyce, who tells me she is putting off her house, which
I am glad of, but it was pleasant that she come on purpose to me about getting a ticket paid,
and in her way hither lost her ticket, so that she is at a great loss what to do.--There comes
in then Mrs. Mercer, the mother, the first time she has been here since her daughter lived
with us, to see my wife, and after a little talk I left them and to the office, and thence
with Sir D. Gawden to Westminster Hall, thinking to have attended the Committee about the Victualling
business, but they did not meet, but here we met Sir R. Brookes, who do mightily cry up my
speech the other day, saying my fellow-officers are obliged to me, as indeed they are. So thence
as far as Leadenhall, and there I 'light, and back by coach to Lincoln's Inn Fields; but my
Lady was not come in, and so I am at a great loss whether she and her brother Hinchingbroke
and sister will dine with me to-morrow or no, which vexes me.  So he gone, I up to supper,
where I find W. Joyce and Harman come to see us, and there was also Mrs. Mercer and her two
daughters, and here we were as merry as that fellow Joyce could make us with his mad talking,
after the old wont, which tired me.  But I was mightily pleased with his singing; for the rogue
hath a very good eare, and a good voice. Here he stayed till he was almost drunk, and then
away at about ten at night, and then all broke up, and I to bed.

11th.  Thence walked down to the Three Cranes and there took boat to White Hall, where by direction
I waited on the Duke of York about office business, and so by water to Westminster, where walking
in the Hall most of the morning, and up to my Lady Jem. in Lincoln's Inn Fields to get her
to appoint the day certain when she will come and dine with me, and she hath appointed Saturday
next.  In the mean time the King hath put out his proclamations this day, as the House desired,
for the putting in execution the Act against Nonconformists and Papists, but yet it is conceived
that for all this some liberty must be given, and people will have it.  Here I met with my
cozen Roger Pepys, who is come to town, and hath been told of my performance before the House
the other day, and is mighty proud of it, and Captain Cocke met me here to-day, and told me
that the Speaker says he never heard such a defence made; in all his life, in the House; and
that the Sollicitor-Generall do commend me even to envy.  I carried cozen Roger as far as the
Strand, where, spying out of the coach Colonel Charles George Cocke, formerly a very great
man, and my father's customer, whom I have carried clothes to, but now walks like a poor sorry
sneake, he stopped, and I 'light to him. This man knew me, which I would have willingly avoided,
so much pride I had, he being a man of mighty height and authority in his time, but now signifies
nothing.  Thence home, where to the office a while and then home, where W. Batelier was and
played at cards and supped with us, my eyes being out of order for working, and so to bed.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, at noon home, and after dinner with wife
and Deb., carried them to Unthanke's, and I to Westminster Hall expecting our being with the
Committee this afternoon about Victualling business, but once more waited in vain. Here I saw
a great trial of the goodness of a burning glass, made of a new figure, not spherical (by one
Smithys, I think, they call him), that did burn a glove of my Lord Brouncker's from the heat
of a very little fire, which a burning glass of the old form, or much bigger, could not do,
which was mighty pretty.  Here I heard Sir Robert Southwell give an account of some things
committed to him by the Society at his going to Portugall, which he did deliver in a mighty
handsome manner.

     [At the meeting of the Royal Society on March 12th, 1668, "Mr.
     Smethwick's glasses were tried again; and his telescope being
     compared with another longer telescope, and the object-glasses
     exchanged, was still found to exceed the other in goodness; and his
     burning concave being compared with a spherical burning-glass of
     almost twice the diameter, and held to the fire, it burnt gloves,
     whereas the other spherical ones would not burn at all."--"Sir
     Robert Southwell being lately returned from Portugal, where he had
     been ambassador from the king, and being desired to acquaint the
     society with what he had done with respect to the instructions,
     which he had received from them before his departure from England,
     related, that he had lodged the astronomical quadrant, which the
     society had sent to Portugal to make observations with there, with a
     body of men at Lisbon, who had applied themselves among other kinds
     of literature to mathematics" (Birch's "History of the Royal
     Society," vol.  ii., p.  256).]

Thence went away home, and there at my office as long as my eyes would endure, and then home
to supper, and to talk with Mr. Pelling, who tells me what a fame I have in the City for my
late performance; and upon the whole I bless God for it.  I think I have, if I can keep it,
done myself a great deal of repute.  So by and by to bed.

13th.  Up betimes to my office, where to fit myself for attending the Parliament again, not
to make any more speech, which, while my fame is good, I will avoid, for fear of losing it;
but only to answer to what objections will be made against us.  Thence walked to the Old Swan
and drank at Michell's, whose house is going up apace.  Here I saw Betty, but could not baiser
la, and so to Westminster, there to the Hall, where up to my cozen Roger Pepys at the Parliament
door, and there he took me aside, and told me how he was taken up by one of the House yesterday,
for moving for going on with the King's supply of money, without regard to the keeping pace
therewith, with the looking into miscarriages, and was told by this man privately that it did
arise because that he had a kinsman concerned therein; and therefore he would prefer the safety
of his kinsman to the good of the nation, and that there was great things against us and against
me, for all my fine discourse the other day.  But I did bid him be at no pain for me; for I
knew of nothing but what I was very well prepared to answer; and so I think I am, and therefore
was not at all disquieted by this.  After dinner to White Hall to the Duke of York, and there
did our usual business, complaining of our standing still in every-respect for want of money,
but no remedy propounded, but so I must still be.  Thence home; and there find one laying of
my napkins against tomorrow in figures of all sorts, which is mighty pretty; and, it seems,
it is his trade, and he gets much money by it; and do now and then furnish tables with plate
and linnen for a feast at so much, which is mighty pretty, and a trade I could not have thought
of.  I find my wife upon the bed not over well, her breast being broke out with heat, which
troubles her, but I hope it will be for her good.  Thence I to Mrs. Turner, and did get her
to go along with me to the French pewterer's, and there did buy some new pewter against to-morrow;
and thence to White Hall, to have got a cook of her acquaintance, the best in England, as she
says.  But after we had with much ado found him, he could not come, nor was Mr. Gentleman in
town, whom next I would have had, nor would Mrs. Stone let her man Lewis come, whom this man
recommended to me; so that I was at a mighty loss what in the world to do for a cooke, Philips
being out of town.  Therefore, after staying here at Westminster a great while, we back to
London, and there to Philips's, and his man directed us to Mr. Levett's, who could not come,
and he sent to two more, and they could not; so that, at last, Levett as a great kindness did
resolve he would leave his business and come himself, which set me in great ease in my mind,
and so home, and there with my wife setting all things in order against to-morrow, having seen
Mrs. Turner at home, and so late to bed.

14th.  Up very betimes, and with Jane to Levett's, there to conclude upon our dinner; and thence
to the pewterer's, to buy a pewter sesterne,

     [A pewter cistern was formerly part of the furniture of a well-
     appointed dining-room; the plates were rinsed in it, when necessary,
     during the meal.  A magnificent silver cistern is still preserved in
     the dining-room at Burghley House, the seat of the Marquis of
     Exeter.  It is said to be the largest piece of plate in England, and
     was once the subject of a curious wager.--B.]

which I have ever hitherto been without, and so up and down upon several occasions to set matters
in order, and that being done I out of doors to Westminster Hall, and there met my Lord Brouncker,
who tells me that our business is put off till Monday, and so I was mighty glad that I was
eased of my attendance here, and of any occasion that might put me out of humour, as it is
likely if we had been called before the Parliament. Therefore, after having spoke with Mr.
Godolphin and cozen Roger, I away home, and there do find everything in mighty good order,
only my wife not dressed, which troubles me.  This day I had the welcome news of our prize
being come safe from Holland, so as I shall have hopes, I hope, of getting my money of my Lady
Batten, or good part of it.

15th (Lord's day).  Up and walked, it being fine dry weather, to Sir W. Coventry's, overtaking
my boy Ely (that was), and he walked with me, being grown a man, and I think a sober fellow.
He parted at Charing Cross, and I to Sir W. Coventry's, and there talked with him about the
Commissioners of Accounts, who did give in their report yesterday to the House, and do lay
little upon us as aggravate any thing at present, but only do give an account of the dissatisfactory
account they receive from Sir G. Carteret, which I am sorry for, they saying that he tells
them not any time when he paid any sum, which is fit for them to know for the computing of
interest, but I fear he is hardly able to tell it.  They promise to give them an account of
the embezzlement of prizes, wherein I shall be something concerned, but nothing that I am afeard
of, I thank God.  After dinner, away hence, and I to Mrs. Martin's, and there spent the afternoon,
and did hazer con elle, and here was her sister and Mrs. Burrows, and so in the evening got
a coach and home, and there find Mr. Pelting and W. Hewer, and there talked and supped, Pelting
being gone, and mightily pleased with a picture that W. Hewer brought hither of several things
painted upon a deale board, which board is so well painted that in my whole life I never was
so well pleased or surprized with any picture, and so troubled that so good pictures should
be painted upon a piece of bad deale.  Even after I knew that it was not board, but only the
picture of a board, I could not remove my fancy.  After supper to bed, being very sleepy, and,
I bless God, my mind being at very good present rest.

16th.  Up, to set my papers and books in order, and put up my plate since my late feast, and
then to Westminster, by water, with Mr. Hater, and there, in the Hall, did walk all the morning,
talking with one or other, expecting to have our business in the House; but did now a third
time wait to no purpose, they being all this morning upon the business of Barker's petition
about the making void the Act of Settlement in Ireland, which makes a great deal of hot work:
and, at last, finding that by all men's opinion they could not come to our matter today, I
with Sir W. Pen home, and there to dinner, where I find, by Willet's crying, that her mistress
had been angry with her: but I would take no notice of it.  Busy all the afternoon at the office,
and then by coach to the Excize Office, but lost my labour, there being nobody there, and so
back again home, and after a little at the office I home, and there spent the evening with
my wife talking and singing, and so to bed with my mind pretty well at ease. This evening W.
Pen and Sir R. Ford and I met at the first's house to talk of our prize that is now at last
come safe over from Holland, by which I hope to receive some if not all the benefit of my bargain
with W. Batten for my share in it, which if she had miscarried I should have doubted of my
Lady Batten being left little able to have paid me.

17th.  Having done there, I away towards Westminster, but seeing by the coaches the House to
be up, I stopped at the 'Change (where, I met Mrs. Turner, and did give her a pair of gloves),
and there bought several things for my wife, and so to my bookseller's, and there looked for
Montaigne's Essays,

     [This must have been Florio's translation, as Cotton's was not
     published until 1685.]

which I heard by my Lord Arlington and Lord Blaney so much commended, and intend to buy it,
but did not now, but home, where at the office did some business, as much as my eyes would
give leave, and so home to supper, Mercer with us talking and singing, and so to bed.  Up betimes
to Westminster, where met with cozen Roger and Creed and walked with them, and Roger do still
continue of the mind that there is no other way of saving this nation but by dissolving this
Parliament and calling another; but there are so many about the King that will not be able
to stand, if a new Parliament come, that they will not persuade the King to it.  I spent most
of the morning walking with one or other, and anon met Doll Lane at the Dog tavern, and there
je did hater what I did desire with her .  .  .  and I did give her as being my valentine 20s.
to buy what elle would.  Anon comes Mrs. Turner and sat and talked with us, and most about
the business of Ackworth,

     [William Acworth, storekeeper at Woolwich, was accused of converting
     stores to his own use (see "Calendar of State Papers," 1667-68, p.
     279).]

which comes before us to-morrow, that I would favour it, but I do not think, notwithstanding
all the friendship I can shew him, that he can escape, and therefore it had been better that
he had followed the advice I sent him the other day by Mrs. Turner, to make up the business.
So parted, and I to bed, my eyes being very bad; and I know not how in the world to abstain
from reading.

19th.  Up, and betimes to the Old Swan, and by water to White Hall, and thence to W. Coventry's,
where stayed but a little to talk with him, and thence by water back again, it being a mighty
fine, clear spring morning.  So to the office, where busy all the morning. At noon home to
dinner, and thence to the office, very busy till five o'clock, and then to ease my eyes I took
my wife out and Deb. to the 'Change, and there bought them some things, and so home again and
to the office, ended my letters, and so home to read a little more in last night's book, with
much sport, it being a foolish book, and so to supper and to bed.  This afternoon I was surprized
with a letter without a name to it, very well writ, in a good stile, giving me notice of my
cozen Kate Joyce's being likely to ruin herself by marriage, and by ill reports already abroad
of her, and I do fear that this keeping of an inne may spoil her, being a young and pretty
comely woman, and thought to be left well.  I did answer the letter with thanks and good liking,
and am resolved to take the advice he gives me, and go see her, and find out what I can: but
if she will ruin herself, I cannot help it, though I should be troubled for it.

20th.  Up betimes, and to my Office, where we had a meeting extraordinary to consider of several
things, among others the sum of money fit to be demanded ready money, to enable us to set out
27 ships, every body being now in pain for a fleete, and everybody endeavouring to excuse themselves
for the not setting out of one, and our true excuse is lack of money. At it all the morning,
and so at noon home to dinner with my clerks, my wife and Deb. being busy at work above in
her chamber getting things ready and fine for her going into the country a week or two hence.
So to supper with my wife, who is in very good humour with her working, and so am I, and so
to bed.  But I am not a whit sorry if it should be so, first for the King's sake, that his
work will be better done by Sir W. Pen than the Prince, and next that Pen, who is a false rogue,
may be bit a little by it.

21st.  Up betimes to the office, and there we sat all the morning, at noon home with my clerks,
a good dinner, and then to the Office, and wrote my letters, and then abroad to do several
things, and pay what little scores I had, and among others to Mrs. Martin's, and there did
give 20s. to Mrs. Cragg, her landlady, who was my Valentine in the house, as well as Doll Lane
.  .  .  .  So home and to the office, there to end my letters, and so home, where Betty Turner
was to see my wife, and she being gone I to my chamber to read a little again, and then after
supper to bed.

22nd (Easter day).  I up, and walked to the Temple, and there got a coach, and to White Hall,
where spoke with several people, and find by all that Pen is to go to sea this year with this
fleete; and they excuse the Prince's going, by saying it is not a command great enough for
him. Here I met with Brisband, and, after hearing the service at the King's chapel, where I
heard the Bishop of Norwich, Dr. Reynolds, the old presbyterian, begin a very plain sermon,
he and I to the Queen's chapel, and there did hear the Italians sing; and indeed their musick
did appear most admirable to me, beyond anything of ours: I was never so well satisfied in
my life with it.  So back to White Hall, and there met Mr. Pierce, and adjusted together how
we should spend to-morrow together, and so by coach I home to dinner, where Kate Joyce was,
as I invited her, and had a good dinner, only she and us; and after dinner she and I alone
to talk about her business, as I designed; and I find her very discreet, and she assures me
she neither do nor will incline to the doing anything towards marriage, without my advice,
and did tell me that she had many offers, and that Harman and his friends would fain have her;
but he is poor, and hath poor friends, and so it will not be advisable: but that there is another,
a tobacconist, one Holinshed, whom she speaks well of, to be a plain, sober man, and in good
condition, that offers her very well, and submits to me my examining and inquiring after it,
if I see good, which I do like of it, for it will be best for her to marry, I think, as soon
as she can--at least, to be rid of this house; for the trade will not agree with a young widow,
that is a little handsome, at least ordinary people think her so. Being well satisfied with
her answer, she anon went away, and I to my closet to make a few more experiments of my notions
in musique, and so then my wife and I to walk in the garden, and then home to supper and to bed.

23rd.  Up, and after discoursing with my wife about many things touching this day's dinner,
I abroad, and first to the taverne to pay what I owe there, but missed of seeing the mistress
of the house, and there bespoke wine for dinner, and so away thence, and to Bishopsgate Streete,
thinking to have found a Harpsicon-maker that used to live there before the fire, but he is
gone, and I have a mind forthwith to have a little Harpsicon made me to confirm and help me
in my musique notions, which my head is now-a-days full of, and I do believe will come to something
that is very good.  Thence to White Hall, expecting to have heard the Bishop of Lincolne, my
friend, preach, for so I understood he would do yesterday, but was mistaken, and therefore
away presently back again, and there find everything in good order against dinner, and at noon
come Mr. Pierce and she, and Mrs. Manuel, the Jew's wife, and Mrs. Corbet, and Mrs. Pierces
boy and girl.  But we are defeated of Knepp, by her being forced to act to-day, and also of
Harris, which did trouble me, they being my chief guests.  However, I had an extraordinary
good dinner, and the better because dressed by my own servants, and were mighty merry; and
here was Mr. Pelling by chance come and dined with me; and after sitting long at dinner, I
had a barge ready at Tower-wharfe, to take us in, and so we went, all of us, up as high as
Barne-Elms, a very fine day, and all the way sang; and Mrs. Manuel sings very finely, and is
a mighty discreet, sober-carriaged woman, that both my wife and I are mightily taken with her,
and sings well, and without importunity or the contrary.  At Barne-Elms we walked round, and
then to the barge again, and had much merry talk, and good singing; and come before it was
dark to the New Exchange stairs, and there landed, and walked up to Mrs. Pierces, where we
sat awhile, and then up to their dining-room.  And so, having a violin and theorbo, did fall
to dance, here being also Mrs. Floyd come hither, and by and by Mr. Harris.  But there being
so few of us that could dance, and my wife not being very well, we had not much pleasure in
the dancing: there was Knepp also, by which with much pleasure we did sing a little, and so,
about ten o'clock, I took coach with my wife and Deb., and so home, and there to bed.

24th.  Up pretty betimes, and so there comes to me Mr. Shish, to desire my appearing for him
to succeed Mr. Christopher Pett, lately dead, in his place of Master-Shipwright of Deptford
and Woolwich, which I do resolve to promote what I can.  So by and by to White Hall, and there
to the Duke of York's chamber, where I understand it is already resolved by the King and Duke
of York that Shish shall have the place.

     [It was customary for the apprentices of the metropolis to avail
     themselves of their holidays, especially on Shrove Tuesday, to
     search after women of ill fame, and to confine them during the
     season of Lent.  See a "Satyre against Separatists," 1642.

          "Stand forth, Shrove Tuesday, one a' the silenc'st bricklayers;
          'Tis in your charge to pull down bawdy-houses."

                    Middleton's Inner Temple Masque, 1619,
                         Works, ed.  Mr. Creed and I to
dinner to my Lord Crew, where little discourse, there being none but us at
the table, and my Lord and my Lady Jemimah, and so after dinner away,
Creed and I to White Hall, expecting a Committee of Tangier, but come too
late.  So I to attend the Council, and by and by were called in with Lord
Brouncker and Sir W. Pen to advise how to pay away a little money to most
advantage to the men of the yards, to make them dispatch the ships going
out, and there did make a little speech, which was well liked, and after
all it was found most satisfactory to the men, and best for the king's
dispatch, that what money we had should be paid weekly to the men for
their week's work until a greater sum could be got to pay them their
arrears and then discharge them.  But, Lord!  to see what shifts and what
cares and thoughts there was employed in this matter how to do the King's
work and please the men and stop clamours would make a man think the King
should not eat a bit of good meat till he has got money to pay the men,
but I do not see the least print of care or thoughts in him about it at
all.  Having done here, I out and there met Sir Fr. Hollis, who do still
tell me that, above all things in the world, he wishes he had my tongue in
his mouth, meaning since my speech in Parliament.  He took Lord Brouncker
and me down to the guards, he and his company being upon the guards
to-day; and there he did, in a handsome room to that purpose, make us
drink, and did call for his bagpipes, which, with pipes of ebony, tipt
with silver, he did play beyond anything of that kind that ever I heard in
my life; and with great pains he must have obtained it, but with pains
that the instrument do not deserve at all; for, at the best, it is mighty
barbarous musick.  So home and there to my chamber, to prick out my song,
"It is Decreed," intending to have it ready to give Mr. Harris on
Thursday, when we meet, for him to sing, believing that he will do it more
right than a woman that sings better, unless it were Knepp, which I cannot
have opportunity to teach it to.  Thence walked a little to Westminster, but met with nobody to
spend any time with, and so by coach homeward, and in Seething Lane met
young Mrs. Daniel, and I stopt, and she had been at my house, but found
nobody within, and tells me that she drew me for her Valentine this year,
so I took her into the coach, and was going to the other end of the town,
thinking to have taken her abroad, but remembering that I was to go out
with my wife this afternoon, .  .  .  and so to a milliner at the corner
shop going into Bishopsgate and Leadenhall Street, and there did give her
eight pair of gloves, and so dismissed her, and so I home and to dinner,
and then with my wife to the King's playhouse to see "The Storme," which
we did, but without much pleasure, it being but a mean play compared with
"The Tempest," at the Duke of York's house, though Knepp did act her part
of grief very well.  Thence with my wife and Deb. by coach to Islington,
to the old house, and there eat and drank till it was almost night, and
then home, being in fear of meeting the 'prentices, who are many of them
yet, they say, abroad in the fields, but we got well home, and so I to my
chamber a while, and then to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up betimes to the office, where by and by my Lord Brouncker and I met and made an end
of our business betimes.  So I away with him to Mrs. Williams's, and there dined, and thence
I alone to the Duke of York's house, to see the new play, called "The Man is the Master," where
the house was, it being not above one o'clock, very full.  But my wife and Deb. being there
before, with Mrs. Pierce and Corbet and Betty Turner, whom my wife carried with her, they made
me room; and there I sat, it costing me 8s. upon them in oranges, at 6d. a-piece.  By and by
the King come; and we sat just under him, so that I durst not turn my back all the play.  So
though I do not much trouble myself for him, yet I am sorry that he should have this fall so
unhappily without any fault, but rather merit of his own that made him fitter for this command
than any body else, and the more for that this business of his may haply occasion their more
eager pursuit against the whole body of the office.

27th.  Up, and walked to the waterside, and thence to White Hall to the Duke of York's chamber,
where he being ready he went to a Committee of Tangier, where I first understand that my Lord
Sandwich is, in his coming back from Spayne, to step over thither, to see in what condition
the place is, which I am glad of, hoping that he will be able to do some good there, for the
good of the place, which is so much out of order.  Thence to walk a little in Westminster Hall,
where the Parliament I find sitting, but spoke with nobody to let me know what they are doing,
nor did I enquire. Thence to the Swan and drank, and did baiser Frank, and so down by water
back again, and to the Exchange a turn or two, only to show myself, and then home to dinner,
where my wife and I had a small squabble, but I first this day tried the effect of my silence
and not provoking her when she is in an ill humour, and do find it very good, for it prevents
its coming to that height on both sides which used to exceed what was fit between us. So she
become calm by and by and fond, and so took coach, and she to the mercer's to buy some lace,
while I to White Hall, but did nothing, but then to Westminster Hall and took a turn, and so
to Mrs. Martin's, and there did sit a little and talk and drink, and did hazer con her, and
so took coach and called my wife at Unthanke's, and so up and down to the Nursery, where they
did not act, then to the New Cockpit, and there missed, and then to Hide Parke, where many
coaches, but the dust so great, that it was troublesome, and so by night home, where to my
chamber and finished my pricking out of my song for Mr. Harris ("It is decreed"), and so a
little supper, being very sleepy and weary since last night, and so by to o'clock to bed and
slept well all night.

28th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy, and at noon home to dinner with my
clerks; and though my head full of business, yet I had a desire to end this holyday week with
a play; and so, with my wife and Deb., to the King's house, and there saw "The Indian Emperour,"
a very good play indeed, and thence directly home, and to my writing of my letters, and so
home to supper and to bed for fearing my eyes.  Our greatest business at the office to-day
is our want of money for the setting forth of these ships that are to go out, and my people
at dinner tell me that they do verily doubt that the want of men will be so great, as we must
press; and if we press, there will be mutinies in the town; for the seamen are said already
to have threatened the pulling down of the Treasury Office; and if they do once come to that,
it will not be long before they come to ours.

29th (Lord's day).  At home to dinner, whither comes and dines with me W. Howe, and by invitation
Mr. Harris and Mr. Banister, most extraordinary company both, the latter for musique of all
sorts, the former for everything: here we sang, and Banister played on the theorbo, and afterwards
Banister played on his flageolet, and I had very good discourse with him about musique, so
confirming some of my new notions about musique that it puts me upon a resolution to go on
and make a scheme and theory of musique not yet ever made in the world.  Thus spent the afternoon
most deliciously, and then broke up and walked with them as far as the Temple, and there parted,
and I took coach to Westminster, but there did nothing, meeting nobody that I had a mind to
speak with, and so home, and there find Mr. Pelling, and then also comes Mrs. Turner, and supped
and talked with us, and so to bed.  Being infinitely satisfied with this sight, and resolving
that my wife shall be drawn by him when she comes out of the country, I away with Harris and
Hales to the Coffee-house, sending my people away, and there resolve for Hales to begin Harris's
head for me, which I will be at the cost of.  Great talk to-day as if Beaufort was come into
the Channel with about 20 ships, and it makes people apprehensive, but yet the Parliament do
not stir a bit faster in the business of money.  Here I met with Creed, expecting a Committee
of Tangier, but the Committee met not, so he and I up and down, having nothing to do, and particularly
to the New Cockpit by the King's Gate in Holborne, but seeing a great deal of rabble we did
refuse to go in, but took coach and to Hide Park, and there till all the tour was empty, and
so he and I to the Lodge in the Park, and there eat and drank till it was night, and then carried
him to White Hall, having had abundance of excellent talk with him in reproach of the times
and managements we live under, and so I home, and there to talk and to supper with my wife,
and so to bed.

31st.  Up pretty betimes and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at noon I home
to dinner, where uncle Thomas dined with me, as he do every quarter, and I paid him his pension;
and also comes Mr. Hollier a little fuddled, and so did talk nothing but Latin, and laugh,
that it was very good sport to see a sober man in such a humour, though he was not drunk to
scandal.  At dinner comes a summons for this office and the Victualler to attend a Committee
of Parliament this afternoon, with Sir D. Gawden, which I accordingly did, with my papers relating
to the sending of victuals to Sir John Harman's fleete; and there, Sir R. Brookes in the chair,
we did give them a full account, but, Lord! to see how full they are and immoveable in their
jealousy that some means are used to keep Harman from coming home, for they have an implacable
desire to know the bottom of the not improving the first victory, and would lay it upon Brouncker.
Having given them good satisfaction I away thence, up and down, wanting a little to see whether
I could get Mrs. Burroughes out, but elle being in the shop ego did speak con her much, she
could not then go far, and so I took coach and away to Unthanke's, and there took up my wife
and Deb., and to the Park, where, being in a hackney, and they undressed, was ashamed to go
into the tour, but went round the park, and so with pleasure home, where Mr. Pelting come and
sat and talked late with us, and he being gone, I called Deb. to take pen, ink, and paper and
write down what things come into my head for my wife to do in order to her going into the country,
and the girl, writing not so well as she would do, cried, and her mistress construed it to
be sullenness, and so away angry with her too, but going to bed she undressed me, and there
I did give her good advice and baiser la, elle weeping still.

