 "Captain Moray and I have sat at meat together before," he said, with
mannered coolness.

"We have played host and guest also: but that was ere he won our
hearts by bold, romantic feats.

Still, I dared scarcely hope to meet him at this table."

"Which is sacred to good manners," said I meaningly and coolly, for
my anger and surprise were too deep for excitement.

I saw the General look at both of us keenly, then his marvellous eyes
flashed intelligence, and a grim smile played at his lips a moment.

After a little general conversation Doltaire addressed me: "We are
not yet so overwhelmed with war but your being here again will give
a fillip to our gossip.

It must
seem sad to you-- you were so long with us-- you have broken bread
with so many of us-- to see us pelted so.

Sometimes a dinner-table is disordered by a riotous shell." He bent
on torturing me.

And it was not hard to do that, for how knew I what had happened?

How came he back so soon from the Bastile?

It was incredible. Perhaps he had never gone, in spite of all.

      After luncheon, the matter
     of exchange of prisoners was gone into,
    and one by one the names of the French prisoners in our hands-- ladies
and gentlemen apprehended at the chateau were ticked off, and I knew
them all save two.

The General deferred to me several times as to the persons and positions
of the captives, and asked my suggestions. Immediately I proposed Mr.
Wainfleet, the chaplain, in exchange for a prisoner, though his name
was not on the list, but Doltaire shook his head in a blank sort
of way.

"Mr. Wainfleet! Mr. Wainfleet! There was no such prisoner in the town,"
he said.

     I insisted, but he stared at me inscrutably,
      and said that he had no record
     of the man. Then I spoke most
    forcibly to the General,
   and said that Mr.
     Wainfleet should
      be produced,
     or an account
    
   of him be given by the French
    Governor. Doltaire then said: "I
     am only responsible for these names recorded.

Our
    General trusts to your honour, and you to ours, Monsieur le General."
There was nothing more to say, and presently the exchanges were arranged,
and, after compliments, Doltaire took his leave.

I left the Governor also, and followed Doltaire. He turned to meet me.
"Captain Moray and I," he remarked to the officers near, "are old--
enemies; and there is a sad sweetness in meetings like these.

May I--"

   
  The officers drew away
    at a little distance at once
     before the suggestion
    was made, and we were left alone.
   I was in a white heat, but yet in fair control.

"You
  are surprised to
   see me here," he said. "Did
    you think the Bastile was
   for me? Tut! I had not
  got out of the country when we
 a packet came, bearing
   fresh commands.

La Pompadour forgave me, and in the King's name bade me return to
New France, and in her own she bade me get your papers, or hang you
straight.

    
   And-- you will think it singular--
  if need be, I was to
 relieve the Governor and
  Bigot also, and work to save
   New France with the excellent
  Marquis de Montcalm."

He laughed. "You can see how absurd that is. I have held my peace, and I
keep my commission in my pocket."

I looked at him amazed that he should tell me this.

He read my look, and said: "Yes, you are my confidant in this. I do not fear you. Your enemy is
bound in honour, your friend may seek to serve himself." Again he laughed. "As if I, Tinoir Doltaire--
note the agreeable combination of peasant and gentleman in my name--
who held his hand from ambition for large things in France, should
stake a lifetime on this foolish hazard!

When I play, Captain Moray, it is for things large and vital. Else I remain the idler, the
courtier-- the son of the King." "Yet you lend your vast talent, the genius of those unknown
possibilities, to this, monsieur-- this little business of exchange
of prisoners," I retorted ironically.

"That is my whim-- a social courtesy." "You said you knew nothing
of the chaplain," I broke out.

"Not so. I said he was on no record given me. Officially I know nothing
of him."  The Beauchamps had always had men in the ranks of the professions
or in stations of responsibility.  They held large lands, and in the almost feudal creed of
the times they gave large services in return.  The curse of politics had not yet reached this
land of born politicians.  Quietly, smoothly, yet withal keyed to a high standard of living,
the ways of this old community, as of these two representative families, went on with little
change from generation to generation.

It was not unknown that these two families should intermarry, a Fairfax finding a wife among
the Beauchamps, or perchance a Beauchamp coming to the Fairfax home to find a mistress for
his own household.  It was considered a matter of course that young Henry Fairfax, son of Colonel
Fairfax, should, after completing his studies at the ancient institution of William and Mary
College, step into his father's law office, eventually to be admitted to the bar and to become
his father's partner; after which he should marry Miss Ellen Beauchamp, loveliest daughter
of a family noted for its beautiful women.  So much was this taken for granted, and so fully
did it meet the approval of both families, that the tide of the young people's plans ran on
with little to disturb its current.  With the gallantry of their class the young men of the
plantations round about, the young men of the fastidiously best, rode in to ask permission
of Mary Ellen's father to pay court to his daughter.  One by one they came, and one by one
they rode away again, but of them all not one remained other than Mary Ellen's loyal slave.
Her refusal seemed to have so much reason that each disappointed suitor felt his own defeat
quite stingless.  Young Fairfax seemed so perfectly to represent the traditions of his family,
and his future seemed so secure; and Mary Ellen herself, tall and slender, bound to be stately
and of noble grace, seemed so eminently fit to be a Beauchamp beauty and a Fairfax bride.

For the young people themselves it may be doubted if there had yet awakened the passion of
genuine, personal love.  They met, but, under the strict code of that land and time, they never
met alone.  They rode together under the trees along the winding country roads, but never without
the presence of some older relative whose supervision was conventional if careless.  They met
under the honeysuckles on the gallery of the Beauchamp home, where the air was sweet with the
fragrance of the near-by orchards, but with correct gallantry Henry Fairfax paid his court
rather to the mother than to the daughter.  The hands of the lovers had touched, their eyes
had momentarily encountered, but their lips had never met.  Over the young girl's soul there
sat still the unbroken mystery of life; nor had the reverent devotion of the boy yet learned
love's iconoclasm.

For two years Colonel Fairfax had been with his regiment, fighting for what he considered the
welfare of his country and for the institutions in whose justice he had been taught to believe.
There remained at the old Fairfax home in Louisburg only the wife of Colonel Fairfax and the
son Henry, the latter chafing at a part which seemed to him so obviously ignoble.  One by one
his comrades, even younger than himself, departed and joined the army hastening forward toward
the throbbing guns.  Spirited and proud, restive under comparisons which he had never heard
but always dreaded to hear.  Henry Fairfax begged his mother to let him go, though still she
said, "Not yet."

But the lines of the enemy tightened ever about Louisburg.  Then came a day--a fatal day--fraught
with the tidings of what seemed a double death.  The wife of Colonel Henry Fairfax was grande
dame that day, when she buried her husband and sent away her son.  There were yet traditions
to support.

Henry Fairfax said good-bye to Mary Ellen upon the gallery of the old home, beneath a solemn,
white-faced moon, amid the odours of the drooping honeysuckle.  Had Mary Ellen's eyes not been
hid beneath the lids they might have seen a face pale and sad as her own.  They sat silent,
for it was no time for human speech.  The hour came for parting, and he rose.  His lips just
lightly touched her cheek. He has vile arts to blind all, or he would not be sitting there. It
is well known that M'sieu'Doltaire, even the King's son-- his mother worked in the fields like
your Nanette, Bamboir-- ""

Or your Lablanche, my friend.

She has hard hands, with warts, and red knuckles therefrom-- ""

Or your Nanette, Bamboir, with nose that blisters in the summer, as she goes swingeing flax,
and swelling feet that sweat in sabots, and chin thrust out from
carrying pails upon her head-- ""

Ay,
like Nanette and like Lablanche, this peasant mother of M'sieu'Doltaire, and maybe no such firm
breasts like Nanette-- ""

Nor such an eye as has Lablanche.

Well, M'sieu'Doltaire, who could override them all, he could not kill this barbarian. And
Gabord-- you know well how they fought, and the black horse and his rider came and carried
him away. Why, the young M'sieu'Duvarney had him on his knees, the blade at his throat, and a
sword flashed out from the dark-- they say it was the devil's-- and took him in the ribs and well-nigh
killed him.

"" But what say you to Ma'm'selle Duvarney coming to him that day, and
again yesterday with Gabord?

"" Well, well, who knows, Bamboir? This morning I said to Nanette,'Why is't, all in one moment, you
send me to the devil, and pray to meet me in Abraham's bosom too?'What think you she answered
me? Why, this, my Bamboir:'Why is't Adam loved his wife and swore her down before the Lord
also, all in one moment?'Why Ma'm'selle Duvarney does this or that is not for muddy brains like
ours. It is some whimsy. They say that women are more curious about the devil than about St.
Jean Baptiste. Perhaps she got of him a magic book.

"" No, no! If he had the magic Petit Albert, he would have turned us into dogs long ago. But I
do not like him. He is but thirty years, they say, and yet his hair is white as a pigeon's wing.
It is not natural. Nor did he ever, says Gabord, do aught but laugh at everything they did to
him. The chains they put would not stay, and when he was set against the wall to be shot, the watches
stopped-- the minute of his shooting passed.

Then M'sieu'Doltaire came, and said a man that could do a trick like that should live to do
another. And he did it, for M'sieu'Doltaire is gone to the Bastile. Voyez, this Englishman is a
damned heretic, and has the wicked arts.

"" But see, Bamboir, do you think he can cast spells?

"" What mean those sounds from his room?

"" So, so. But if he be a friend of the devil, La Jongleuse would
not come for him, but-- "Startled and excited, they grasped each other's
arms."

But for us-- for us! ""

It would be a work of God to send him to the devil, "said Bamboir
in a loud whisper."

He has given us trouble enough. Who can tell what comes next? Those damned noises in his room,
eh-- eh?

"Then
they whispered together, and presently I caught a fragment, by which I understood that, as
we walked near the edge of the cliff, I should be pushed over, and they would make it appear
that I had drowned myself.

They talked in low tones again, but soon got louder, and presently I knew that they were speaking
of La Jongleuse; and Bamboir-- the fat Bamboir, who the surgeon had said would some day die of apoplexy-- was
rash enough to say that he had seen her. He described her accurately, with the spirit of the
born raconteur:" Hair so black as the feather in the Governor's hat,
and green eyes that flash fire, and a brown face with skin all scales.

Oh, my saints of Heaven, when she pass I hide my
head, and I go cold like stone. She is all covered with long reeds
and lilies about her head and shoulders, and blue-red sparks fly
up at every step.

Flames go round her, and she burns not her robe-- not at all. And as she go, I hear cries that make
me sick, for it is, I said, some poor man in torture, and I think, perhaps it is Jacques Villon, perhaps
Jean Rivas, perhaps Angele Damgoche. But no, it is a young priest of St. Clair, for he is never seen
again-- never! "In my mind I commended this fat Bamboir as an excellent story-teller, and thanked him for
his true picture of La Jongleuse, whom, to my regret, I had never seen. I would not forget his
stirring description, as he should see.

I gave point to the tale by squeezing an inflated toy in my pocket, with my arm, while my hands
remained folded in front of me; and it was as good as a play to see the faces of these soldiers, as
they sprang to their feet, staring round in dismay.

I myself seemed to wake with a start, and, rising to my feet, I asked what meant the noise
and their amazement. We were in a spot where we could not easily be seen from any distance,
and no one was in sight, nor were we to be remarked from the fort. They exchanged looks, as I
started back towards the chateau, walking very near the edge of the cliff. A spirit of bravado
came on me, and I said musingly to them as we walked:" It would be easy to throw you both over the
cliff, but I love you too well. I have proved that by making toys for your children. "It was as
cordial to me to watch their faces. They both drew away from the cliff, and grasped their firearms
apprehensively."

My God, "said Bamboir," those toys shall be burned to-night. Alphonse has the smallpox and Susanne
the croup-- damned devil!

"he added furiously, stepping forward to me with gun raised," I'll-- "I believe he would have
shot me, but that I said quickly," If you did harm to me you'd come
to the rope.

The Governor would rather lose a hand than my life. "I pushed his musket down." Why should you fret?
I am leaving the chateau to-morrow for another prison. You fools,
d'ye think I'd harm the children?

I
know as little of the devil or La Jongleuse as do you. We'll solve the witcheries of these
sounds, you and I, to-night.

If they come, we'll say the Lord's Prayer, and make the sacred gesture, and if it goes not, we
will have one of your good priests to drive out this whining spirit.

"This quieted them much, and I was glad of it, for they had looked bloodthirsty enough, and
though I had a weapon on me, there was little use in seeking fighting or flight till the auspicious
moment. They were not satisfied, however, and they watched me diligently as we came on to the
chateau.

I could not bear that they should be frightened about their children,
so I said:" Make for me a sacred oath, and I will swear by it that those
toys will do your children no harm.

"I drew out the little wooden cross that Mathilde had given me,
and held it up.

They looked at me astonished. What should I, a heretic and a Protestant,
do with this sacred emblem?"

This never leaves me, "said I;" it was a pious gift. "I raised the cross to my lips, and kissed
it."

That's well, "said Bamboir to his comrade." If otherwise, he should have been struck down by
the Avenging Angel. "We got back to the chateau without more talk, and I was locked in, while
my guards retired.

As soon as they had gone I got to work, for my great enterprise was
at hand.

At ten o'clock I was ready for the venture.

When the critical moment came, I was so arrayed that my dearest friend
would not have known me.

My object was to come out upon my guards as La Jongleuse, and, in the fright and confusion
which should follow, make my escape through the corridors and to
the entrance doors, past the sentinels, and so on out.

It may be seen now why I got the woman's garb, the sheet, the horsehair, the phosphorus, the reeds,
and such things; why I secured the knife and pistol may be guessed likewise. Upon the lid
of a small stove in the room I placed my saltpetre, and I rubbed the horsehair on my head with
phosphorus, also on my hands, and face, and feet, and on many objects in the room. The knife and
pistol were at my hand, and when the clock struck ten, I set my toys to wailing. Then I knocked
upon the door with solemn taps, hurried back to the stove, and waited
for the door to open before I applied the match.

I heard a fumbling at the lock, then the door was thrown wide open. All was darkness in the
hall without, save for a spluttering candle which Bamboir held over his head, as he and his
fellow, deadly pale, stood peering forward.

Suddenly
they gave a cry, for I threw the sheet from my face and shoulders, and to their excited imagination
La Jongleuse stood before them, all in flames. As I started down on them, the coloured fire
flew up, making the room all blue and scarlet for a moment, in which I must have looked devilish
indeed, with staring eyes, and outstretched chalky hands, and wailing cries coming from my
robe. I moved swiftly, and Bamboir, without a cry, dropped like a log (poor fellow, he never rose
again! the apoplexy which the surgeon promised had come), his comrade gave a cry, and sank in
a heap in a corner, mumbling a prayer, and making the sign of the cross, his face stark with terror.
I passed him, came along the corridor and down one staircase, without
seeing any one; then two soldiers appeared in the half-lighted hallway.

Presently also a door opened behind me, and some one came out. By now the phosphorus light diminished
a little, but still I was a villainous picture, for in one hand I held a small cup from which
suddenly sprang red and blue fires. The men fell back, and I sailed
past them, but I had not gone far down the lower staircase when a
shot rang after me, and a bullet passed by my head.

Now I came rapidly to the outer door, where two more sentinels stood. They shrank back, and suddenly one
threw down his musket and ran; the other, terrified, stood stock-still. I passed him, opened the
door, and came out upon the Intendant, who was just alighting from his carriage. The horses
sprang away, frightened at sight of me, and nearly threw Bigot to the ground. I tossed the tin
cup with its chemical fires full in his face, as he made a dash for me. He called out, and drew
his sword. I wished not to fight, and I sprang aside; but he made a
pass at me, and I drew my pistol and was about to fire, when another
shot came from the hallway and struck him.

He fell, almost at my feet, and I dashed away into the darkness. Fifty feet ahead I cast one
glance hack, and saw Monsieur Cournal standing in the doorway. I was sure that his second
shot had not been meant for me, but for the Intendant-- a wild attempt
at a revenge, long delayed, for the worst of wrongs.

I ran on, and presently came full upon five soldiers, two of whom drew
their pistols, fired, and missed.

Their comrades ran away howling. They barred my path, and now I fired, too, and brought one
down; then came a shot from behind them, and another fell. The last one took to his heels, and
a moment later I had my hand in that of Mr. Stevens. It was he who had fired the opportune shot
that rid me of one foe. We came quickly along the river brink, and, skirting the citadel, got clear
of it without discovery, though we could see soldiers hurrying past, roused by the firing at
the chateau. In about half an hour of steady running, with a few bad stumbles and falls, we
reached the old windmill above the Anse du Foulon at Sillery, and
came plump upon our waiting comrades.

I had stripped myself of my disguise, and rubbed the phosphorus from
my person as we came along, but enough remained to make me an uncanny
figure.

It had been kept secret from these people that I was to go with them, and they sullenly kept
their muskets raised and cocked; but when Mr. Stevens told them who I was, they were agreeably
surprised. I at once took command of the enterprise, saying firmly at the same time that I would
shoot the first man who disobeyed my orders. I was sure that I could bring them to safety, but
my will must be law. They took my terms like men, and swore to stand by me. XXII THE LORD OF
KAMARSKA We were five altogether-- Mr. Stevens, Clark, the two Boston
soldiers, and myself; and presently we came down the steep passage
in the cliff to where our craft lay, secured by my dear wife-- a birch
canoe, well laden with necessaries.

Our craft was none too large for our party, but she must do; and safely in, we pushed out upon
the current, which was in our favour, for the tide was going out. My object was to cross the
river softly, skirt the Levis shore, pass the Isle of Orleans, and so steal down the river.
There was excitement in the town, as we could tell from the lights flashing along the shore, and
boats soon began to patrol the banks, going swiftly up and down, and extending a line round
to the St. Charles River towards Beauport.

It was well for us the night was dark, else we had run that gantlet. But we were lucky enough,
by hard paddling, to get past the town on the Levis side. Never were better boatmen. The paddles
dropped with agreeable precision, and no boatswain's rattan was needed
to keep my fellows to their task.

I, whose sight was long trained to darkness, could see a great distance
round us, and so could prevent a trap, though once or twice we let
our canoe drift with the tide, lest our paddles should be heard.

I could not paddle long, I had so little strength.

After the Isle of Orleans was passed, I drew a breath of relief, and played the part of captain
and boatswain merely. Yet when I looked back at the town on those strong heights, and saw the bonfires
burn to warn the settlers of our escape, saw the lights sparkling
in many homes, and even fancied I could make out the light shining
in my dear wife's window, I had a strange feeling of loneliness.

There in the shadow of my prison walls, was the dearest thing on earth to me. Ought she not to
be with me? She had begged to come, to share with me these dangers and hardships; but that I could
not, would not grant. She would be safer with her people. As for us desperate men bent on escape,
we must face hourly peril. Thank God, there was work to do. Hour after hour the swing and dip of
the paddles went on. No one showed weariness, and when the dawn broke slow and soft over the
eastern hills, I motioned my good boatmen towards the shore, and
landed safely.

We lifted our frigate up, and carried her into a thicket, there to
rest with us till night, when we would sally forth again into the
friendly darkness.

We were in no distress all that day, for the weather was fine, and we had enough to eat; and in
such case were we for ten days and nights, though indeed some of the nights were dreary and very cold,
for it was yet but the beginning of May. It might thus seem that we were leaving danger well behind,
after having travelled so many heavy leagues, but it was yet several hundred miles to Louisburg,
our destination; and we had escaped only immediate danger.

We passed Isle aux Coudres and the Isles of Kamaraska, and now we ventured by day to ramble
the woods in search of game, which was most plentiful.

In this good outdoor life my health came slowly back, and I should soon be able to bear equal
tasks with any of my faithful comrades. Never man led better friends, though I have seen adventurous
service near and far since that time. Even the genial ruffian Clark was amenable, and took
sharp reprimand without revolt. On the eleventh night after our escape, our first real trial came.
We were keeping the middle of the great river, as safest from detection,
and when the tide was with us we could thus move more rapidly.

We had had a constant favouring wind, but now suddenly, though we were running with the tide,
the wind turned easterly, and blew up the river against the ebb. Soon it became a gale, to which
was added snow and sleet, and a rough, choppy sea followed.

I saw it would be no easy task to fetch our craft to the land.

The waves broke in upon us, and presently, while half of us were
paddling with laboured and desperate stroke, the other half were
bailing.

Lifted on a crest, our canoe, heavily laden, dropped at both ends; and
again, sinking into the hollows between the short, brutal waves, her
gunwales yielded outward, and her waist gaped in a dismal way.

We looked to see her with a broken back at any moment. To add to our ill fortune, a violent current
set in from the shore, and it was vain to attempt a landing. Spirits and bodies flagged, and
it needed all my cheerfulness to keep my good fellows to their tasks. At last, the ebb of tide being almost
spent, the waves began to fall, the wind shifted a little to the
northward, and a piercing cold instantly froze our drenched clothes
on our backs.

But
with the current changed there was a good chance of reaching the shore. As daylight came we passed
into a little sheltered cove, and sank with exhaustion on the shore. Our frozen clothes rattled
like tin, and we could scarce lift a leg. But we gathered a fine heap of wood, flint and steel were
ready, and the tinder was sought; which, when found, was soaking. Not a dry stitch or stick
could we find anywhere, till at last, within a leather belt, Mr. Stevens found a handkerchief,
which was, indeed, as he told me afterwards, the gift and pledge of a lady to him; and his returning
to her with out it nearly lost him another and better gift and pledge, for this went to light
our fire.

We had had enough danger and work in one night to give us relish for some days of rest, and we
piously took them. The evening of the second day we set off again,
and had a good night's run, and in the dawn, spying a snug little
bay, we stood in, and went ashore.

I sent my two Provincials foraging with their guns, and we who remained set about to fix our
camp for the day and prepare breakfast. A few minutes only passed, and the two hunters came running
back with rueful faces to say they had seen two Indians near, armed
with muskets and knives.

My plans were made at once. We needed their muskets, and the Indians must pay the price of
their presence here, for our safety should be had at any cost. I urged my men to utter no word at
all, for none but Clark could speak French, and he but poorly. For myself, my accent would
pass after these six years of practice. We came to a little river, beyond which we could observe
the Indians standing on guard. We could only cross by wading, which we did; but one of my Provincials
came down, wetting his musket and himself thoroughly. The better to deceive, we all were now dressed
in the costume of the French peasant-- I had taken pains to have
Mr. Stevens secure these for us before starting; a pair of homespun
trousers, a coarse brown jacket, with thrums like waving tassels,
a silk handkerchief about the neck, and a strong thick worsted wig
on the head; no smart toupet, nor buckle; nor combed, nor powdered;
and all crowned by a dull black cap.

I
myself was, as became my purpose, most like a small captain of militia, doing wood service,
and in the braver costume of the coureur de bois. I signalled to the Indians, and, coming near, addressed
them in French. They were deceived, and presently, abreast of them, in the midst of apparent
ceremony, their firelocks were seized, and Mr. Stevens and Clark had them safe. I said we must
be satisfied as to who they were, for English prisoners escaped from
Quebec were abroad, and no man could go unchallenged.

They must at once lead me to their camp. So they did, and at their bark wigwam they said they
had seen no Englishman. They were guardians of the fire; that is, it was their duty to light a
fire on the shore when a hostile fleet should appear; and from another point farther up, other guardians,
seeing, would do the same, until beacons would be shining even to Quebec,
three hundred leagues away. While I was questioning them, Clark rifled
the wigwam; and presently, the excitable fellow, finding some excellent
stores of skins, tea, maple sugar, coffee, and other things, broke
out into English expletives.

Instantly
the Indians saw they had been trapped, and he whom Mr. Stevens held
made a great spring from him, caught up a gun, and gave a wild yell which
echoed far and near. Mr. Stevens, with great rapidity, leveled his
pistol and shot him in the heart, while I, in a close struggle with my captive,
was glad-- for I was not yet strong-- that Clark finished my assailant:
and so both lay there dead, two foes less of our good King. Not far from
where we stood was a pool of water, black and deep, and we sank the
bodies there; but I did not know till long afterwards that Clark, with
a barbarous and disgusting spirit, carried away their scalps to sell
them in New York, where they would bring, as he confided to one of
the Provincials, twelve pounds each.

Before we left, we shot a poor howling
dog that mourned for his masters, and sank him also in the dark pool.
We had but got back to our camp, when, looking out, we saw a well-manned
four-oared boat making for the shore. My men were in dismay until
I told them that, having begun the game of war, I would carry it
on to the ripe end. This boat and all therein should be mine. Safely
hidden, we watched the rowers draw in to shore, with brisk strokes,
singing a quaint farewell song of the voyageurs, called La Pauvre
Mere, of which the refrain is:" And his mother says,'My dear, For your
absence I shall grieve; Come you home within the year.'"They had evidently
been upon a long voyage, and by their toiling we could see their boat
was deep loaded; but they drove on, like a horse that, at the close of
day, sees ahead the inn where he is to bait and refresh, and, rousing
to the spur, comes cheerily home. The figure of a reverend old man was in
the stern, and he sent them in to shore with brisk words.  Thus there poured into
the West from many different directions, but chiefly from two right-angling directions which
intersected on the Plains, a diverse population whose integers were later with phenomenal swiftness
to merge and blend.  As in the war the boldest fought, so in emigration the boldest travelled,
and the West had the pick of the land.  In Illinois and Iowa, after the war had ended, you
might have seen a man in flapping blue army overcoat hewing timber for fences on the forgotten
farms, or guiding the plough across the black reeking sod; but presently you must have also
seen the streams of white-topped wagons, sequel to the white tented fields, moving on, pushing
toward the West, the land of action and adventure, the land of hope and promise.

As all America was under canvas, it was not strange that Colonel Battersleigh should find his
home in a tent, and that this tent should be pitched upon the Western Plains.  Not that he
had gone directly to the West after the mustering out of his regiment.  To the contrary, his
first abode had been in the city of New York, where during his brief stay he acquired a certain
acquaintance.  Colonel Battersleigh was always a striking figure, the more so by reason of
his costume, which was invariably the same.  His broad cavalry hat, his shapely varnished boots,
his gauntlets, his sweeping cloak, made him fairly historic about the clubs.  His air, lofty,
assured, yet ever suave, showed that he classified himself cheerfully as being of the natural
aristocracy of the earth.  When Colonel Battersleigh had occasion to sign his name it was worth
a dinner to see the process, so seriously did he himself regard it.  "Battersleigh"--so stood
the name alone, unsupported and self-sufficient.  Seeing which inscription in heavy black lines,
many a man wondered, considering that he had discovered an Old-World custom, and joining in
the belief of the owner of the name that all the world must know the identity of Battersleigh.

What were the financial resources of Battersleigh after the cessation of his pay as a cavalry
officer not even his best friends could accurately have told.  It was rumoured that he was
the commissioner in America of the London Times.  He was credited with being a Fellow of the
Royal Geographical Society.  That he had a history no one could doubt who saw him come down
the street with his broad hat, his sweeping cloak, his gauntlets, his neatly varnished boots.

In reality Colonel Henry Battersleigh lived, during his city life, in a small, a very small
room, up more than one night of stairs.  This room, no larger than a tent, was military in
its neatness. Why, down in that place in the river where you threw me in I found meadows, and
trees, and fine pastures, and buffaloes, and all kinds of cattle. In fact, I could hardly tear
myself away; but I thought that I must really let you all know about
it.'' Oh, oh!'thought the greedy village people;'if there are buffaloes
to be had for the taking we'll go after some too.'Encouraged by the
goldsmith they nearly all ran off the very next morning to the river;
and, in order that they might get down quickly to the beautiful place
the goldsmith told them of, they tied great stones on to their feet
and their necks, and one after another they jumped into the water
as fast as the could, and were drowned.

And whenever any one of them waved his hands about and struggled the goldsmith would cry out:'Look! he's
beckoning the rest of you to come; he's got a fine buffalo!'And others who were doubtful would
jump in, until not one was left. Then the cunning goldsmith went back and took all the village for
himself, and became very rich indeed. But do you think he was happy? Not a bit. Lies never made a man happy
yet. Truly, he got the better of a set of wicked and greedy people, but only by being wicked
and greedy himself; and, as it turned out, when he got so rich he
got very fat; and at last was so fat that he couldn't move, and one
day he got the apoplexy and died, and no one in the world cared the
least bit.

The Enchanted Wreath [Told by a Pathan to Major Campbell.] Once upon a time there lived near a forest
a man and his wife and two girls; one girl was the daughter of the man, and the other the daughter
of his wife; and the man's daughter was good and beautiful, but the
woman's daughter was cross and ugly.

However, her mother did not know that, but thought her the most bewitching maiden that ever
was seen. One day the man called to his daughter and bade her come with him into the forest to
cut wood. They worked hard all day, but in spite of the chopping they were very cold, for it rained
heavily, and when they returned home, they were wet through.

Then, to his vexation, the man found that he had left his axe behind
him, and he knew that if it lay all night in the mud it would become
rusty and useless.

So he said to his wife:'I have dropped my axe in the forest, bid
your daughter go and fetch it, for mine has worked hard all day and
is both wet and weary.'But the wife answered:'If your daughter is
wet already, it is all the more reason that she should go and get
the axe.

Besides, she is a great strong girl, and a little rain will not hurt her, while my daughter would
be sure to catch a bad cold.'By long experience the man knew there was no good saying any more,
and with a sigh he told the poor girl she must return to the forest for the axe. The walk took
some time, for it was very dark, and her shoes often stuck in the
mud, but she was brave as well as beautiful and never thought of turning
back merely because the path was both difficult and unpleasant.

At last, with her dress torn by brambles that she could not see, and her fact scratched by the
twigs on the trees, she reached the spot where she and her father had been cutting in the morning,
and found the axe in the place he had left it. To her surprise, three little doves were sitting
on the handle, all of them looking very sad.'You poor little things,'said the girl, stroking them.'Why
do you sit there and get wet?

Go and fly home to your nest, it will be much warmer than this; but first eat this bread, which
I saved from my dinner, and perhaps you will feel happier.

It is my father's axe you are sitting on, and I must take it back
as fast as I can, or I shall get a terrible scolding from my stepmother.'She
then crumbled the bread on the ground, and was pleased to see the
doves flutter quite cheerfully towards it.'Good-bye,'she said, picking
up the axe, and went her way homewards.

By the time they had finished all the crumbs the doves felt must better,
and were able to fly back to their nest in the top of a tree.'That
is a good girl,'said one;'I really was too weak to stretch out a wing
before she came.

I should like to do something to show how grateful I am.'' Well, let us give her a wreath of flowers
that will never fade as long as she wears it,'cried another.'And
let the tiniest singing birds in the world sit amongst the flowers,'rejoined
the third.'Yes, that will do beautifully,'said the first.

And when the girl stepped into her cottage a wreath of rosebuds was on her head, and a crowd of
little birds were singing unseen.

The father, who was sitting by the fire, thought that, in spite of her muddy clothes, he had never
seen his daughter looking so lovely; but the stepmother and the other girl grew wild with envy.'How
absurd to walk about on such a pouring night, dressed up like that,'she remarked crossly,
and roughly pulled off the wreath as she spoke, to place it on her own daughter. As she did so
the roses became withered and brown, and the birds flew out of the window.'See what a trumpery thing
it is!'cried the stepmother;'and now take your supper and go to bed,
for it is near upon midnight.'But though she pretended to despise
the wreath, she longed none the less for her daughter to have one
like it.

Now it happened that the next evening the father, who had been alone in the forest, came back
a second time without his axe. The stepmother's heart was glad when she saw this, and she said quite mildly:'Why,
you have forgotten your axe again, you careless man! But now your daughter shall stay at home,
and mine shall go and bring it back'; and throwing a cloak over the girl's
shoulders, she bade her hasten to the forest. With a very ill grace
the damsel set forth, grumbling to herself as she went; for though
she wished for the wreath, she did not at all want the trouble of
getting it.

By the time she reached the spot where her stepfather had been cutting
the wood the girl was in a very bad temper indeed, and when she caught
sight of the axe, there were the three little doves, with drooping
heads and soiled, bedraggled feathers, sitting on the handle.'You
dirty creatures,'cried she,'get away at once, or I will throw stones
at you!

And the doves spread their wings in a fright and flew up to the very top of a tree, their bodies
shaking with anger.'What shall we do to revenge ourselves on her?'asked
the smallest of the doves,'we were never treated like that before.'' Never,'said
the biggest dove.'We must find some way of paying her back in her
own coin!'' I know,'answered the middle dove;'she shall never be able
to say anything but "dirty creatures" to the end of her life.'' Oh,
how clever of you!

That will do beautifully,'exclaimed the other two. And they flapped their wings and clucked so
loud with delight, and made such a noise, that they woke up all the
birds in the trees close by.'What in the world is the matter?'asked
the birds sleepily.'That is our secret,'said the doves.

Meanwhile the girl had reached home crosser than ever; but as soon as her mother heard her lift
the latch of the door she ran out to hear her adventures.'Well, did
you get the wreath?'cried she.'Dirty creatures!'answered her daughter.'Don't
speak to me like that!

What do you mean?'asked the mother again.'Dirty creatures!'repeated
the daughter, and nothing else could she say.

Then the woman saw that something evil had befallen her, and turned in her rage to her stepdaughter.'You
are at the bottom of this, I know,'she cried; and as the father was
out of the way she took a stick and beat the girl till she screamed
with pain and went to bed sobbing.

If the poor girl's life had been miserable before, it was ten times worse now, for the moment
her father's back was turned the others teased and tormented her from morning till night;
and their fury was increased by the sight of her wreath, which the
doves had placed again on her head.

Things went on like this for some weeks, when, one day, as the king's son was riding through the
forest, he heard some strange birds singing more sweetly than birds had ever sung before. He
tied his horse to a tree, and followed where the sound led him, and,
to his surprise, he saw before him a beautiful girl chopping wood,
with a wreath of pink rose-buds, out of which the singing came.

Standing in the shelter of a tree, he watched her a long while, and then, hat in hand, he went up
and spoke to her.'Fair maiden, who are you, and who gave you that
wreath of singing roses?'asked he, for the birds were so tiny that
till you looked closely you never saw them.'I live in a hut on the
edge of the forest,'she answered, blushing, for she had never spoken
to a prince before.'As to the wreath, I know not how it came there,
unless it may be the gift of some doves whom I fed when they were
starving!

The prince was delighted with this answer, which showed the goodness of the girl's heart, and besides
he had fallen in love with her beauty, and would not be content till
she promised to return with him to the palace, and become his bride.

The old king was naturally disappointed at his son's choice of a wife, as he wished him to marry
a neighbouring princess; but as from his birth the prince had always done exactly as he like, nothing
was said and a splendid wedding feast was got ready.

The day after her marriage the bride sent a messenger, bearing handsome presents to her father,
and telling him of the good fortune which had befallen her. As may be imagined, the stepmother
and her daughter were so filled with envy that they grew quite ill,
and had to take to their beds, and nobody would have been sorry it
they had never got up again; but that did not happen.

At length, however, they began to feel better, for the mother invented a plan by which she could be
revenged on the girl who had never done her any harm. Her plan was
this.

In the town where she had lived before she was married there was an old witch, who had more skill
in magic that any other witch she knew. To this witch she would go and beg her to make her
a mask with the face of her stepdaughter, and when she had the mask
the rest would be easy.

She told her daughter what she meant to do, and although the daughter could only say'dirty
creatures,'in answer, she nodded and smiled and looked well pleased. Everything fell out exactly
as the woman had hoped.

By the aid of her magic mirror the witch beheld the new princess walking in her gardens in a dress
of green silk, and in a few minutes had produced a mask so like her,
that very few people could have told the difference.

However, she counselled the woman that when her daughter first wore
it-- for that, of course, was what she intended her to do-- she had
better pretend that she had a toothache, and cover her head with a
lace veil.

The woman thanked her and paid her well, and returned to her hut, carrying the mask under her cloak.
In a few days she heard that a great hunt was planned, and the prince
would leave the palace very early in the morning, so that his wife
would be alone all day.

This was a chance not to be missed, and taking her daughter with her she went up to the palace, where
she had never been before. The princess was too happy in her new home to remember all that she
had suffered in the old one, and she welcomed them both gladly, and
gave them quantities of beautiful things to take back with them.

At last she took them down to the shore to see a pleasure boat which
her husband had had made for her; and here, the woman seizing her
opportunity, stole softly behind the girl and pushed her off the rock
on which she was standing, into the deep water, where she instantly
sank to the bottom.

Then she fastened the mask on her daughter, flung over her shoulders
a velvet cloak, which the princess had let fall, and finally arranged
a lace veil over her head.'Rest your cheek on your hand, as if you
were in pain, when the prince returns,'said the mother;'and be careful
not to speak, whatever you do.

I will go back to the witch and see if she cannot take off the spell laid on you by those
horrible birds. Ah! why did I not think of it before!'No sooner had the prince entered the palace
than he hastened to the princess's apartments, where he found her
lying on the sofa apparently in great pain.'My dearest wife, what
is the matter with you?'he cried, kneeling down beside her, and trying
to take her hand; but she snatched it away, and pointing to her cheek
murmured something he could not catch.'What is it? tell me!

Is the pain bad? When did it begin?

Shall I send for your ladies to bath the place?'asked the prince,
pouring out these and a dozen other questions, to which the girl only
shook her head.'But I can't leave you like this,'he continued, starting
up,'I must summon all the court physicians to apply soothing balsams
to the sore place!

And as he spoke he sprang to his feet to go in search of them once
came near her the trick would at once be discovered, that she forgot
her mother's counsel not to speak, and forgot even the spell that
had been laid upon her, and catching hold of the prince's tunic, she
cried in tones of entreaty:'Dirty creatures!'The young man stopped,
not able to believe his ears, but supposed that pain had made the
princess cross, as it sometimes does.

However, he guessed somehow that she wised to be left alone, so he
only said:'Well, I dare say a little sleep will do you good, if you
can manage to get it, and that you will wake up better to-morrow.'Now,
that night happened to be very hot and airless, and the prince, after
vainly trying to rest, at length got up and went to the window.

Suddenly
he beheld in the moonlight a form with a wreath of roses on her head rise out of the sea below
him and step on to the sands, holding out her arms as she did so
towards the palace.'That maiden is strangely like my wife,'thought
he;'I must see her closer!

And he hastened down to the water. But when he got there, the princess, for she indeed it was, had
disappeared completely, and he began to wonder if his eyes had deceived him. The next morning he
went to the false bride's room, but her ladies told him she would
neither speak nor get up, though she ate everything they set before
her.

The prince
was sorely perplexed as to what could be the matter with her, for naturally he could not
guess that she was expecting her mother to return every moment, and to remove the spell the
doves had laid upon her, and meanwhile was afraid to speak lest she should betray herself. At length
he made up his mind to summon all the court physicians; he did not tell her what he was going
to do, lest it should make her worse, but he went himself and begged
the four learned leeches attached to the king's person to follow him
to the princess's apartments.

Unfortunately, as they entered, the princess was so enraged at the sight of them that she forgot
all about the doves, and shrieked out:'Dirty creatures! dirty creatures!'which
so offended the physicians that they left the room at once, and nothing
that the prince could say would prevail on them to remain.

He then tried to persuade his wife to send them a message that she was sorry for her rudeness, but
not a word would she say.

Late that evening, when he had performed all the tiresome duties which fall to the lot of every
prince, the young man was leaning out of his window, refreshing himself with the cool breezes
that blew off the sea.

Thirty-five years earlier, a raw youth from old Vermont, Hollis N. Bradley had walked into
the embryonic settlement of Bloomsbury with a single law book under his arm, and naught but
down upon his chin.  He pleaded his first cause before a judge who rode circuit over a territory
now divided into three Congressional districts.  He won his first case, for his antagonist
was even more ignorant than he.  As civilization advanced, he defended fewer men for stealing
hogs, and more for murder and adultery.  His practice grew with the growth of the population
of the country about him.  He was elected county attorney, local counsel for the railroad,
and judge of the circuit court.  He was mentioned for gubernatorial honours, and would perhaps
have received the party nomination but for the breaking out of the civil war.  Not fancying
the personal risks of the army, he hired a substitute, and this sealed his political fate;
for Illinois at that time did not put in power men who sent substitutes to the war.  None the
less, the lands and moneys of the most prominent lawyer of the place kept him secure, and human
memories are short; so that, when Edward Franklin and others of the young men of Bloomsbury
returned from the war, they saw upon the streets of the little town, as they had seen before
they went away, the tall form, the portly front, the smooth-shaven face, and the tall silk
hat of Judge Hollis N. Bradley, who had in every sense survived the war.

It was an immemorial custom in Bloomsbury for the youth who had aspirations for a legal career
to "read law" in Judge Bradley's office. Two of his students had dropped their books to take
up rifles, and they came not back to their places.  They were forgotten, save once a year,
upon Decoration Day, when Judge Bradley made eloquent tribute above their graves.  Upon such
times Judge Bradley always shed tears, and always alluded to the tears with pride.  Indeed,
his lachrymal ability was something of which he had much right to be proud, it being well known
in the legal profession that one's fees are in direct proportion to his ability to weep.  Judge
Bradley could always weep at the right time before a Jury, and this facility won him many a
case.  Through no idle whim had public sentiment, even after the incident of the substitute,
confirmed him in his position as the leading lawyer of Bloomsbury.

It was therefore predetermined that Edward Franklin should go into the office of Judge Bradley
to begin his law studies, after he had decided that the profession of the law was the one likely
to offer him the best career.  In making his decision, Franklin was actuated precisely as are
many young men who question themselves regarding their career.  He saw the average results
of the lives of others in a given calling, and conceived, without consulting in most jealous
scrutiny his own natural fitnesses and preferences, that he might well succeed in that calling
because he saw others so succeeding.  Already there were two dozen lawyers in Bloomsbury, and
it was to be questioned whether they all did so well as had Judge Bradley in the hog-stealing
epoch of the local history.  Yet it was necessary for him to take up something by way of occupation,
and it resolved itself somewhat into a matter of cancellation. No doubt it is as great as you say;
but at present it seems to have suffered, as is natural, from the
fatigues of the journey.'This was certainly not what the prince had
expected to hear.

Could the portrait have flattered her? He had known of such things before, and a cold shiver ran
through him; but with an effort he kept silent from further questioning, and only said:'Has the
king been told that the princess is in the palace?'' Yes, highness;
and he has probably already joined her.'' Then I will go too,'said
the prince.

Weak as he was from his long illness, the prince descended the staircase,
supported by the ministers, and entered the room just in time to hear
his father's loud cry of astonishment and disgust at the sight of
Cerisette.'There was been treachery at work,'he exclaimed, while the
prince leant, dumb with horror, against the doorpost.

But the lady in waiting, who had been prepared for something of the
sort, advanced, holding in her hand the letters which the king and
queen had entrusted to her.'This is the princess Desiree,'said she,
pretending to have heard nothing,'and I have the honour to present
to you these letters from my liege lord and lady, together with the
casket containing the princess'jewels.'The king did not move or answer
her; so the prince, leaning on the arm of Becasigue, approached a
little closer to the false princess, hoping against hope that his
eyes had deceived him.

But the longer he looked the more he agreed with his father that
there was treason somewhere, for in no single respect did the portrait
resemble the woman before him.

Cerisette was so tall that the dress of the princess did not reach her ankles,
and so thin that her bones showed through the stuff. Besides that her
nose was hooked, and her teeth black and ugly. In his turn, the prince
stood rooted to the spot.

At last he spoke, and his words were addressed to his father, and not to the bride who had
come so far to marry him.'We have been deceived,'he said,'and it will cost me my life.'And he leaned
so heavily on the envoy that Becasigue feared he was going to faint,
and hastily laid him on the floor.

For some minutes no one could attend to anybody but the prince; but as soon as he revived the
lady in waiting made herself heard.'Oh, my lovely princess, why did we ever leave home?'cried
she.'But the king your father will avenge the insults that have been
heaped on you when we tell him how you have been treated.'' I will
tell him myself,'replied the king in wrath;'he promised me a wonder
of beauty, he has sent me a skeleton!

I am not surprised that he has kept her for fifteen years hidden away from the eyes of the world.
Take them both away,'he continued, turning to his guards,'and lodge them in the state prison.
There is something more I have to learn of this matter.'His orders were obeyed, and the prince,
loudly bewailing his sad fate, was led back to bed, where for many days he lay in a high fever.
At length he slowly began to gain strength, but his sorrow was still so great that he could not
bear the sight of a strange face, and shuddered at the notion of
taking his proper part in the court ceremonies.

Unknown to the king, or to anybody but Becasigue, he planned that, as soon as he was able, he would
make his escape and pass the rest of his life alone in some solitary
place.

It was some weeks before he had regained his health sufficiently to carry out his design; but finally,
one beautiful starlight night, the two friends stole away, and when the king woke next morning he
found a letter lying by his bed, saying that his son had gone, he knew not whither. He wept bitter
tears at the news, for he loved the prince dearly; but he felt that
perhaps the young man had done wisely, and he trusted to time and
Becasigue's influence to bring the wanderer home.

And while these things were happening, what had become of the white doe? Though when she sprang
from the carriage she was aware that some unkind fate had changed
her into an animal, yet, till she saw herself in a stream, she had
no idea what it was.'Is it really, I, Desiree?'she said to herself,
weeping.'What wicked fairy can have treated me so; and shall I never,
never take my own shape again?

My
only comfort that, in this great forest, full of lions and serpents, my life will be a short
one.'Now the fairy Tulip was as much grieved at the sad fate of the princess as Desiree's own
mother could have been if she had known of it. Still, she could not help feeling that if the
king and queen had listened to her advice the girl would by this
time be safely in the walls of her new home.

However, she loved Desiree too much to let her suffer more than could be helped, and it was she who
guided Eglantine to the place where the white doe was standing, cropping the grass which was her
dinner. At the sound of footsteps the pretty creature lifted her head, and when she saw her
faithful companion approaching she bounded towards her, and rubbed her head on Eglantine's shoulder.
The maid of honour was surprised; but she was fond of animals, and stroked the white doe tenderly,
speaking gently to her all the while. Suddenly the beautiful creature lifted her head, and looked
up into Eglantine's face, with tears streaming from her eyes. A thought flashed through her mind,
and quick as lightning the girl flung herself on her knees, and lifting the animal's feet kissed
them one by one.'My princess! O my dear princess!'cried she; and again the white doe rubbed her
head against her, for thought the spiteful fairy had taken away her
power of speech, she had not deprived her of her reason! All day long
the two remained together, and when Eglantine grew hungry she was
led by the white doe to a part of the forest where pears and peaches
grew in abundance; but, as night came on, the maid of honour was filled
with the terrors of wild beasts which had beset the princess during
her first night in the forest.'Is there no hut or cave we could go
into?'asked she.

But the doe only shook her head; and the two sat down and wept with fright. The fairy Tulip, who,
in spite of her anger, was very soft-hearted, was touched at their
distress, and flew quickly to their help.'I cannot take away the spell
altogether,'she said,'for the Fairy of the Fountain is stronger than
I; but I can shorten the time of your punishment, and am able to make
it less hard, for as soon as darkness fall you shall resume your own
shape.'To think that by-and-by she would cease to be a white doe--
indeed, that she would at once cease to be one during the night--
was for the present joy enough for Desiree, and she skipped about
on the grass in the prettiest manner.'Go straight down the path in
front of you,'continued the fairy, smiling as she watched her;'go
straight down the path and you will soon reach a little hut where
you will find shelter.'And with these words she vanished, leaving
her hearers happier than they ever thought they could be again.

An old woman was standing at the door of the hut when Eglantine drew
near, with the white doe trotting by her side.'Good evening!'she said;'could
you give me a night's lodging for myself and my doe?'' Certainly
I can,'replied the old woman.

And she led them into a room with two little white beds, so clean and
comfortable that it made you sleepy even to look at them.

The door had hardly closed behind the old woman when the sun sank below the horizon, and Desiree
became a girl again.'Oh, Eglantine! what should I have done if you
had not followed me,'she cried.

And she flung herself into her friend's arms in a transport of delight.
Early in the morning Eglantine was awakened by the sound of someone
scratching at the door, and on opening her eyes she saw the white
doe struggling to get out.

The little creature looked up and into her face, and nodded her
head as the maid of honour unfastened the latch, but bounded away into
the woods, and was lost to sight in a moment.

Meanwhile, the prince and Becasigue were wandering through the wood, till at last the prince
grew so tired, that he lay down under a tree, and told Becasigue that he had better go in search
of food, and of some place where they could sleep.

Becasigue had not gone very far, when a turn of the path brought him face to face with the old woman who
was feeding her doves before her cottage.'Could you give me some milk and fruit?'asked he.'I
am very hungry myself, and, besides, I have left a friend behind
me who is still weak from illness.'' Certainly I can,'answered the
old woman.'But come and sit down in my kitchen while I catch the goat
and milk it.'Becasigue was glad enough to do as he was bid, and in
a few minutes the old woman returned with a basket brimming over with
oranges and grapes.'If your friend has been ill he should not pass
the night in the forest,'said she.'I have room in my hut-- tiny enough,
it is true; but better than nothing, and to that you are both heartily
welcome.'Becasigue thanked her warmly, and as by this time it was
almost sunset, he set out to fetch the prince.

It was while he was absent that Eglantine and the white doe entered
the hut, and having, of course, no idea that in the very next room
was the man whose childish impatience had been the cause of all their
troubles.

In spite of his fatigue, the prince slept badly, and directly it was light he rose, and bidding
Becasigue remain where he was, as he wished to be alone, he strolled
out into the forest.

He walked on slowly, just as his fancy led him, till, suddenly, he
came to a wide open space, and in the middle was the white doe quietly
eating her breakfast.

She bounded off at the sight of a man, but not before the prince, who had fastened on his bow without
thinking, had let fly several arrows, which the fairy Tulip took
care should do her no harm.

But,
quickly as she ran, she soon felt her strength failing her, for fifteen years of life in a tower
had not taught her how to exercise her limbs. Luckily, the prince was too weak to follow her
far, and a turn of a path brought her close to the hut, where Eglantine was awaiting her. Panting
for breath, she entered their room, and flung herself down on the
floor.

When it was dark again, and she was once more the princess Desiree, she told Eglantine what had
befallen her.'I feared the Fairy of the Fountain, and the cruel beasts,'said
she;'but somehow I never thought of the dangers that I ran from men.

I do not know now what saved me.'' You must stay quietly here till the time of your punishment is over,'answered
Eglantine.

But when the morning dawned, and the girl turned into a doe, the longing
for the forest came over her, and she sprang away as before. As soon
as the prince was awake he hastened to the place where, only the
day before, he had found the white doe feeding; but of course she
had taken care to go in the opposite direction.

Much disappointed, he tried
first one green path and then another, and at last, wearied with
walking, he threw himself down and went fast asleep. Just at this moment
the white doe sprang out of a thicket near by, and started back trembling
when she beheld her enemy lying there.

Yet, instead of turning to fly, something bade her go and look at him unseen. As she gazed a thrill
ran through her, for she felt that, worn and wasted though he was
by illness, it was the face of her destined husband. Gently stooping
over him she kissed his forehead, and at her touch he awoke.

For a minute they looked at each other, and to his amazement he recognized the white doe which
had escaped him the previous day.

But in an instant the animal was aroused to a sense of her danger,
and she fled with all her strength into the thickest part of the
forest.

Quick as lightning the prince was on her track, but this time it was with no wish to kill or even wound
the beautiful creature.'Pretty doe! pretty doe! stop!

I won't hurt you,'cried he, but his words were carried away by the wind. At length the doe could
run no more, and when the prince reached her, she was lying stretched
out on the grass, waiting for her death blow.

But instead the prince knelt at her side, and stroked her, and bade her fear nothing, as he would
take care of her.

So he fetched a little water from the stream in his horn hunting cup,
then, cutting some branches from the trees, he twisted them into
a litter which he covered with moss, and laid the white doe gently
on it.

For a long time they remained thus, but when Desiree saw by the way that the light struck the trees,
that he sun must be near its setting, she was filled with alarm lest
the darkness should fall, and the prince should behold her in her
human shape.'No, he must not see me for the first time here,'she thought,
and instantly began to plan how to get rid of him.

Then she opened her mouth and let her tongue hang out, as if she were dying of thirst, and the prince,
as she expected, hastened to the stream to get her some more water.
When he returned, the white doe was gone. That night Desiree confessed
to Eglantine that her pursuer was no other than the prince, and that
far from flattering him, the portrait had never done him justice.'Is
it not hard to meet him in this shape,'wept she,'when we both love
each other so much?'But Eglantine comforted her, and reminded her
that in a short time all would be well.

The prince was very angry at the flight of the white doe, for whom he had taken so much trouble, and
returning to the cottage he poured out his adventures and his wrath
to Becasigue, who could not help smiling.'She shall not escape me
again,'cried the prince.'If I hunt her every day for a year, I will
have her at last.'And in this frame of mind he went to bed.

When the white doe entered the forest next morning, she had not made up her mind whether she
would go and meet the prince, or whether she would shun him, and
hide in thickets of which he knew nothing.

She decided that the last plan was the best; and so it would have been if the prince had not taken
the very same direction in search of her.

Quite by accident he caught sight of her white skin shining through the bushes, and at the same
instant she heard a twig snap under his feet.

In a moment she was up and away, but the prince, not knowing how else to
capture her, aimed an arrow at her leg, which brought her to the
ground.

The young man felt like a murderer as he ran hastily up to where
the white doe lay, and did his best to soothe the pain she felt,
which, in reality, was the last part of the punishment sent by the
Fairy of the Fountain.

First he brought
her some water, and then he fetched some healing herbs, and having
crushed them in his hand, laid them on the wound.'Ah! what a wretch
I was to have hurt you,'cried he, resting her head upon his knees;'and
now you will hate me and fly from me for ever!'For some time the doe
lay quietly where she was, but, as before, she remembered that the
hour of her transformation was near.

She struggled to her feet, but the prince would not hear of her walking, and thinking the old woman
might be able to dress her wound better than he could, he took her in his arms to carry her back
to the hut.

But, small as she was, she made herself so heavy that, after staggering
a few steps under her weight, he laid her down, and tied her fast to a
tree with some of the ribbons of his hat.

This done he went away to get help. Meanwhile Eglantine had grown
very uneasy at the long absence of her mistress, and had come out to look
for her.

Just as the prince passed out of sight the fluttering ribbons dance before her eyes, and
she descried her beautiful princess bound to a tree. With all her might she worked at the knots,
but not a single one could she undo, though all appeared so easy. She was still busy with them when
a voice behind her said:'Pardon me, fair lady, but it is MY doe you
are trying to steal!'' Excuse me, good knight'answered Eglantine, hardly
glancing at him,'but it is MY doe that is tied up here!

And if you wish for a proof of it, you can see if she knows me or not. Touch my heart, my little
one,'she continued, dropping on her knees. And the doe lifted up its fore-foot and laid it on her
side.'Now put your arms round my neck, and sigh.'And again the doe
did as she was bid.'You are right,'said the prince;'but it is with
sorrow I give her up to you, for though I have wounded her yet I love
her deeply.'To this Eglantine answered nothing; but carefully raising
up the doe, she led her slowly to the hut.

Now both the prince and Becasigue were quite unaware that the old woman had any guests besides
themselves, and, following afar, were much surprised to behold Eglantine
and her charge enter the cottage.

They lost no time in questioning the old woman, who replied that she
knew nothing about the lady and her white doe, who slept next the
chamber occupied by the prince and his friend, but that they were
very quiet, and paid her well.

Then she went back to her kitchen.'Do you know,'said Becasigue, when
they were alone,'I am certain that the lady we saw is the maid of
honour to the Princess Desiree, whom I met at the palace.

And, as her room is next to this, it will be easy to make a small hole through which I can satisfy
myself whether I am right or not.'So, taking a knife out of his pocket, he began to saw away
the woodwork.

The girls heard the grating noise, but fancying it was a mouse, paid no attention, and Becasigue
was left in peace to pursue his work. At length the hole was large enough for him to peep through,
and the sight was one to strike him dumb with amazement. He had guessed truly: the tall lady was
Eglantine herself; but the other-- where had he seen her?

Ah! now he knew-- it was the lady of the portrait! Desiree, in a flowing dress of green silk, was
lying stretched out upon cushions, and as Eglantine bent over her to bathe the wounded leg, she
began to talk:'Oh! let me die,'cried she,'rather than go on leading this life. You cannot tell
the misery of being a beast all the day, and unable to speak to the
man I love, to whose impatience I owe my cruel fate.  The short, harsh grass near at hand
he discovered to be dotted here and there with small, gay flowers.  Back of him, as he turned
his head, he saw a square of vivid green, which water had created as a garden spot of grass
and flowers at the stone hotel.  He did not find this green of civilization more consoling
or inspiring than the natural colour of the wild land that lay before him.  For the first time
in his life he looked upon the great Plains, and for the first time felt their fascination.
There came to him a subtle, strange exhilaration.  A sensation of confidence, of certainty,
arose in his heart.  He trod as a conqueror upon a land new taken.  All the earth seemed happy
and care-free.  A meadow lark was singing shrilly high up in the air; another lark answered,
clanking contentedly from the grass, whence in the bright air its yellow breast showed brilliantly. 

"With whom?"

"Yourself, aho!" A queer smile crossed his lips, and was followed by a sort of sternness. There
was something graver in his manner than I had ever seen. I could not guess his meaning. At last
he added, pulling roughly at his mustache, "And when that's done,
if not well done, to answer to Gabord the soldier; for, God take my
soul without bed-going, but I will call you to account!

That Seigneur's home is no place for you."

"You speak in riddles," said I. Then all at once the matter burst upon me. "The Governor quarters
me at the Seigneur Duvarney's?" I asked.

"No other," answered he. "In three days to go."

I understood him now. He had had a struggle, knowing of the relations between Alixe and myself,
to avoid telling the Governor all. And now, if I involved her, used her to effect my escape
from her father's house! Even his peasant brain saw my difficulty, the danger to my honour-- and
hers. In spite of the joy I felt at being near her, seeing her, I
shrank from the situation.

If I escaped from the Seigneur Duvarney's, it would throw suspicion
upon him, upon Alixe, and that made me stand abashed.

Inside the Seigneur Duvarney's house I should now feel unhappy, bound
to certain calls of honour concerning his daughter and himself.

I stood long, thinking, Gabord watching me.

Finally, "Gabord," said I, "I give you my word of honour that I will not put Mademoiselle or
Monsieur Duvarney in peril."

"You will not try to escape?"

"Not to use them for escape. To elude my guards, to fight my way
to liberty-- yes-- yes-- yes!"

"But
that mends not.

Who's to know the lady did not help you?"

"You. You are to be my jailer again there?"

He nodded, and fell to pulling his mustache. "'Tis not enough," he
said decisively.

"Come, then," said I, "I will strike a bargain with you.

If you will grant me one thing, I will give my word of honour not
to escape from the seigneur's house."

"Say on."

"You tell me I am not to go to the seigneur's for three days yet.

Arrange that mademoiselle may come to me to-morrow at dusk-- at six o'clock, when all the world
dines-- and I will give my word. No more do I ask you-- only that."

"Done," said he. "It shall be so."

"You will fetch her yourself?" I asked.

"On the stroke of six. Guard changes then."

Here our talk ended. He went, and I plunged deep into my great plan; for all at once, as we
had talked, came a thing to me which I shall make clear ere long. I set my wits to work. Once
since my coming to the chateau I had been visited by the English chaplain who had been a prisoner
at the citadel the year before. He was now on parole, and had freedom to come and go in the town.
The Governor had said he might visit me on a certain day every week, at a fixed hour, and
the next day at five o'clock was the time appointed for his second
visit.

Gabord had promised to bring Alixe to me at six.

The following morning I met Mr. Stevens on the ramparts. I told him it was my purpose to escape
the next night, if possible. If not, I must go to the Seigneur Duvarney's, where I should be on
parole-- to Gabord. I bade him fulfill my wishes to the letter, for on his boldness and my own,
and the courage of his men, I depended for escape. He declared himself ready to risk all, and
die in the attempt, if need be, for he was sick of idleness. He could, he said, mature his plans
that day, if he had more money.

I gave him secretly a small bag of gold, and then I made explicit note of what I required of
him: that he should tie up in a loose but safe bundle a sheet, a
woman's skirt, some river grasses and reeds, some phosphorus, a pistol
and a knife, and some saltpetre and other chemicals.

That evening, about nine o'clock, which was the hour the guard changed, he was to tie this bundle
to a string which I let down from my window, and I would draw it up. Then, the night following,
the others must steal away to that place near Sillery-- the west side of the town was always
ill guarded-- and wait there with a boat.

He should see me at a certain point on the ramparts, and, well armed, we also would make our
way to Sillery, and from the spot called the Anse du Foulon drift down the river in the dead
of night.

He promised to do all as I wished.

The rest of the day I spent in my room fashioning strange toys out
of willow rods.

I had got these rods from my guards, to make whistles for their children, and they had carried
away many of them.

But now, with pieces of a silk handkerchief tied to the whistle and
filled with air, I made a toy which, when squeezed, sent out a weird
lament.

Once when my guard came in, I pressed one of these things in my pocket, and it gave forth
a sort of smothered cry, like a sick child.

At this he started, and looked round the room in trepidation; for,
of all peoples, these Canadian Frenchmen are the most superstitious,
and may be worked on without limit.

The cry had seemed to come from a distance.

I looked around, also, and appeared serious, and he asked me if I
had heard the thing before.

"Once or twice," said I. "Then you are a dead man," said he; "'tis
a warning, that!"

"Maybe it is not I, but one of you," I answered.

Then, with a sort of hush, "Is't like the cry of La Jongleuse?" I added. (La Jongleuse is their
fabled witch, or spirit, of disaster.) He nodded his head, crossed
himself, mumbled a prayer, and turned to go, but came back.

"I'll fetch a crucifix," he said. "You are a heathen, and you bring her here. She is the devil's
dam." He left with a scared face, and I laughed to myself quietly,
for I saw success ahead of me.

True to his word, he brought a crucifix and put it up-- not where he wished, but, at my request,
opposite the door, upon the wall. He crossed himself before it, and was
most devout.

It looked singular to see this big, rough soldier, who was in most
things a swaggerer, so childlike in all that touched his religion.

With this you could fetch him to his knees; with it I would cow him that I might myself escape. At
half past five the chaplain came, having been delayed by the guard to have his order indorsed
by Captain Lancy of the Governor's household.

To him I told my plans so far as I thought he should know them, and then I explained what I wished
him to do. He was grave and thoughtful for some minutes, but at last consented. He was a pious
man, and of as honest a heart as I have known, albeit narrow and confined, which sprang perhaps
from his provincial practice and his theological cutting and trimming. We were in the midst of a serious
talk, wherein I urged him upon matters which shall presently be set forth, when there came a noise
outside. I begged him to retire to the alcove where my bed was, and draw the curtain for a few
moments, nor come forth until I called. He did so, yet I thought it hurt his sense of dignity to be
shifted to a bedroom. As he disappeared the door opened, and Gabord and Alixe entered. "One half
hour," said Gabord, and went out again. Presently Alixe told me her
story.

"I have not been idle, Robert, but I could not act, for my father and mother suspect my love for
you.

I have come but little to the chateau without them, and I was closely
watched.

I knew not how the thing would end, but I kept up my workings with the Governor, which is easier
now Monsieur Doltaire is gone, and I got you the freedom to walk
upon the ramparts.

Well, once before my father suspected me, I said that if his Excellency disliked your being
in the Chateau, you could be as well guarded in my father's house, with sentinels always there, until
you could, in better health, be taken to the common jail again.

What was my surprise when yesterday came word to my father that he should make ready to receive
you as a prisoner; being sure that he, his Excellency's cousin, the father of the man you had injured,
and the most loyal of Frenchmen, would guard you diligently; he now needed all extra room in the Chateau
for the entertainment of gentlemen and officers lately come from France."
When my father got the news, he was thrown into dismay. He knew not
what to do. On what ground could he refuse the Governor? Yet when
he thought of me he felt it his duty to do so. Again, on what ground
could he refuse this boon to you, to whom we all owe the blessing
of his life?

On my brother's account?

But my brother has written to my father justifying you, and magnanimously praising you as a man,
while hating you as an English soldier. On my account? But he could not give this reason to the
Governor. As for me, I was silent, I waited-- and I wait; I know not what
will be the end.

Meanwhile preparations go on to receive you. "I could see that Alixe's mood was more tranquil since
Doltaire was gone. A certain restlessness had vanished. Her manner had much dignity, and every
movement a peculiar grace and elegance. She was dressed in a soft cloth of a gray tone, touched
off with red and slashed with gold, and a cloak of gray, trimmed
with fur, with bright silver buckles, hung loosely on her, thrown
off at one shoulder.

There was a sweet disorder in the hair, which indeed was prettiest when freest. When she had finished
speaking, she looked at me, as I thought, with a little anxiety." Alixe, "I said," we have come
to the cross-roads, and the way we choose now is for all time. "She looked up, startled, yet
governing herself, and her hand sought mine and nestled there." I
feel that, too, "she replied." What is it, Robert?

"" I can not in honour escape from your father's house.

I can not steal his daughter and his safety too-- "" You must escape,
"she interrupted firmly."

From here, from the citadel, from anywhere but your house; and so
I will not go to it. ""

You
will not go to it? "she repeated slowly and strangely." How may you not? You are a prisoner.
If they make my father your jailer-- "She laughed."

I owe that jailer and that jailer's daughter-- "" You owe them your safety and your freedom. Oh,
Robert, I know, I know what you mean.

But what care I what the world may think by-and-bye, or to-morrow,
or to-day?

My conscience is clear. "" Your father-- "I persisted. She nodded."
Yes, yes, you speak truth, alas!

And yet you must be freed. And "-- here she got to her feet, and with
flashing eyes spoke out--" and you shall be set free.

Let come what will, I owe my first duty to you, though all the world
chatter; and I will not stir from that.

As soon as I can make it possible, you shall escape.

"" You shall have the right to set me free, "said I," if I must go
to your father's house.

And if I do not go there, but out to my own good country, you shall still have the right before
all the world to follow, or to wait till I come to fetch you. ""
I do not understand you, Robert, "said she."

I do not-- "Here she broke off, looking, looking at me, and trembling
a little.

Then I stooped and whispered softly in her ear. She gave a little cry, and drew back from me;
yet instantly her hand came out and caught my arm." Robert, Robert! I can not, I dare not! "she
cried softly." No, no, it may not be, "she added in a whisper of fear. I went to the alcove, drew
back the curtain, and asked Mr. Wainfleet to step forth."

Sir, "said I, picking up my Prayer Book and putting it in his hands," I beg you to marry this
lady and myself. "He paused, dazed." Marry you-- here-- now? "he asked shakingly." Before ten
minutes go round, this lady must be my wife, "said I."

Mademoiselle Duvarney, you-- "he began." Be pleased, dear sir, to open the book at'Wilt thou have,'"said
I."

The lady is a Catholic; she has not the consent of her people; but when she is my wife, made
so by you, whose consent need we ask?

Can you not tie us fast enough, a man and woman of sense sufficient, but you must pause here? Is
the knot you tie safe against picking and stealing?

"I had touched his vanity and his ecclesiasticism."

Married by me, "he replied," once chaplain to the Bishop of London, you have a knot that no sword
can cut.

I am in full orders. My parish is in Boston itself. ""

You will hand a certificate to my wife to-morrow, and you will uphold
this marriage against all gossip?

"asked I." Against
all France and all England, "he answered, roused now."

Then come, "I urged." But I must have a witness, "he interposed, opening the book." You shall have
one in due time, "said I." Go on. When the marriage is performed, and at the point where you shall
proclaim us man and wife, I will have a witness. "I turned to Alixe, and found her pale and troubled."
Oh, Robert, Robert! "she cried," it can not be.

Now, now I am afraid, for the first time in my life, clear, the first time! "" Dearest lass in
the world, "I said," it must be. I shall not go to your father's. To-morrow night, I make my great
stroke for freedom, and when I am free I shall return to fetch my
wife.

"" You will try to escape from here to-morrow? "she asked, her face flushing finely." I will escape
or die, "I answered;" but I shall not think of death.

Come-- come and say with me that we shall part no more-- in spirit
no more; that, whatever comes, you and I have fulfilled our great
hope, though under the shadow of the sword.

"At that she put her hand in mine with pride and sweetness, and said,"
I am ready, Robert.

I give my heart, my life, and my honour to you-- forever.

"Then, with great sweetness and solemnity she turned to the clergyman:" Sir, my honour is also in
your hands.

If you have mother or sister, or any care of souls upon you, I pray
you, in the future act as becomes good men.

"" Mademoiselle, "he said earnestly," I am risking my freedom, maybe my life, in this; do you think--
"Here she took his hand and pressed it."

Ah, I ask your pardon. I am of a different faith from you, and I have known how men forget when
they should remember. "She smiled at him so perfectly that he drew
himself up with pride."

Make
haste, sir, "said I." Jailers are curious folk.

"The room was not yet lighted, the evening shadows were creeping in, and up out of the town
came the ringing of the vesper bell from the church of the Recollets. For a moment there was stillness
in the room and all around us, and then the chaplain began in a low
voice:" I require and charge you both-- "and so on.

In a few moments I had made the great vow, and had put on Alixe's finger
a ring which the clergyman drew from his own hand.

Then we knelt down, and I know we both prayed most fervently with
the good man that we might" ever remain in perfect love and perfect
peace together.

"Rising, he paused, and I went to the door and knocked upon it. It was opened by Gabord." Come in,
Gabord, "said I." There is a thing that you must hear. "He stepped back and got a light, and then
entered, holding it up, and shutting the door.

A strange look came upon his face when he saw the chaplain, and a
stranger when, stepping beside Alixe, I took her hand, and Mr. Wainfleet
declared us man and wife.

He stood
like one dumfounded, and he did not stir as Alixe, turning to me, let me kiss her on the lips,
and then went to the crucifix on the wall and embraced the feet of it, and stood for a moment,
praying.

Nor did he move or make a sign till she came back and stood beside
me."

A pretty scene! "he burst forth then with anger." But, by God! no marriage is it! "Alixe's hand
tightened on my arm, and she drew close to me." A marriage that will stand at Judgment Day, Gabord,
"said I." But not in France or here.'Tis mating wild, with end of doom.
""

It is a marriage our great Archbishop at Lambeth Palace will uphold against a hundred popes and kings,
"said the chaplain with importance." You are no priest, but holy peddler! "cried Gabord roughly."
This is not mating as Christians, and fires of hell shall burn-- aho!

I will see you all go down, and hand of mine shall not be lifted for you! "He puffed out his
cheeks, and his great eyes rolled so like fire-wheels."

You are a witness to this ceremony, "said the chaplain." And you shall answer to your God, but you
must speak the truth for this man and wife. "" Man and wife? "laughed
Gabord wildly." May I die and be damned to-- "Like a flash Alixe was beside
him, and put to his lips most swiftly the little wooden cross that
Mathilde had given her." Gabord, Gabord, "she said in a sweet, sad
voice," when you may come to die, a girl's prayers will be waiting
at God's feet for you. "He stopped, and stared at her. Her hand lay
on his arm, and she continued:" No night gives me sleep, Gabord,
but I pray for the jailer who has been kind to an ill-treated gentleman.

"" A juggling gentleman, that cheats Gabord
before his eyes, and smuggles in a mongrel priest!

"he blustered. I waved my
hand at the chaplain, or I think he would have put his Prayer Book
to rougher use than was its wont, and I was about to answer, but Alixe
spoke instead, and to greater purpose than I could have done.

Her whole mood changed, her face
grew still and proud, her eyes flashed bravely."

Gabord, "she said," vanity speaks in you
there, not honesty.

No gentleman here is a juggler. No kindness
you may have done warrants insolence. You have the power to bring great
misery on us, and you may have the will, but, by God's help, both
my husband and myself shall be delivered from cruel hands.

At any moment I may stand alone in the
world, friends, people, the Church, and all the land against me: if
you desire to haste that time, to bring me to disaster, because you would
injure my husband, "-- how sweet the name sounded on her lips!--"
then act, but do not insult us.

But no, no, "she broke off softly," you
spoke in temper, you meant it not, you were but vexed with us for
the moment.

Dear Gabord, "she added," did we not
know that if we had asked you first, you would have refused us? You
care so much for me, you would have feared my linking my life and
fate with one-- ""

With one the death-man has in
hand, to pay price for wicked deed, "he interrupted."

With one innocent of all dishonour,
a gentleman wronged every way. Gabord, you know it so, for you have
guarded him and fought with him, and you are an honourable gentleman,
"she added gently."

No gentleman I, "he burst forth," but jailer
base, and soldier born upon a truss of hay. But honour is an apple
any man may eat since Adam walked in garden....'Tis honest foe, here,
"he continued magnanimously, and nodded towards me."

We would have told you all, "she said," but
how dare we involve you, or how dare we tempt you, or how dare we risk
your refusal?

It
was love and truth drove us to this; and God will bless this mating
as the birds mate, even as He gives honour to Gabord who was born
upon a truss of hay.

"" Poom! "said Gabord, puffing out
his cheeks, and smiling on her with a look half sour, and yet with a
doglike fondness," Gabord's mouth is shut till's head is off, and
then to tell the tale to Twelve Apostles! "Through his wayward, illusive
speech we found his meaning.

He would
keep faith with us, and be best proof of this marriage, at risk of his
head even. As we spoke, the chaplain was writing in the blank fore-pages
of the Prayer Book. Presently he said to me, handing me the pen, which
he had picked from a table," Inscribe your names here. It is a rough
record of the ceremony, but it will suffice before all men, when to-morrow
I have given Mistress Moray another record. "We wrote our names,
and then the pen was handed to Gabord. He took it, and at last, with
many flourishes and ahos, and by dint of puffings and rolling eyes,
he wrote his name so large that it filled as much space as the other
names and all the writing, and was indeed like a huge indorsement across
the record. When this was done, Alixe held out her hand to him." Will
you kiss me, Gabord? "she said. The great soldier was all taken back.
He flushed like a schoolboy, yet a big humour and pride looked out
of his eyes."

I owe you for
the sables, too, "she said."

But kiss
me-- not on my ears, as the Russian count kissed Gabord, but on both
cheek. "This won him to our cause utterly, and I never think of Gabord,
as I saw him last in the sway and carnage of battle, fighting with
wild uproar and covered with wounds, but the memory of that moment,
when he kissed my young wife, comes back to me.

At that he turned
to leave." I'll hold the door for ten minutes, "he added; and bowed
to the chaplain, who blessed us then with tears in his eyes, and smiled
a little to my thanks and praises and purse of gold, and to Alixe's
sweet gratitude.

With lifting chin-- good honest gentleman, who afterwards
proved his fidelity and truth-- he said that he would die to uphold
this sacred ceremony. And so he made a little speech, as if he had
a pulpit round him, and he wound up with a benediction which sent my dear
girl to tears and soft trembling:" The Lord bless you and keep you:
the Lord make his face to shine upon you; the Lord lift up his countenance
upon you, and give you peace now and for evermore.

"A moment afterwards the door closed,
and for ten minutes I looked into my wife's face, and told her my
plans for escape. When Gabord opened the door upon us, we had passed
through years of understanding and resolve.

Our parting was brave-- a bravery
on her side that I do not think any other woman could match. She was
quivering with the new life come upon her, yet she was self-controlled;
she moved as in a dream, yet I knew her mind was alert, vigilant,
and strong; she was aching with thought of this separation, with the
peril that faced us both, yet she carried a quiet joy in her face,
a tranquil gravity of bearing.  Men were
busy living, busy at exercising this vast opportunity of being prehistoric.

One by one, then in a body, as though struck by panic, the white tents of the railroad labourers
vanished, passing on yet farther to the West, only the engineers remaining at Ellisville and
prosecuting from the haven of the stone hotel the work of continuing the line.  The place of
the tents was taken by vast white-topped wagons, the creaking cook carts of the cattle trail,
and the van of the less nomadic man.  It was the beginning of the great cattle drive from the
Southern to the Northern ranges, a strange, wild movement in American life which carried in
its train a set of conditions as vivid and peculiar as they were transient.  At Ellisville
there was no ordered way of living.  The frontier was yet but one vast camp.  It was, as Battersleigh
had said, the beginning of things.

Many of the white-topped wagons began to come from the East, not following the railroad, but
travelling the trail of the older adventurers who had for a generation gone this way, and whose
pathway the railroad took for its own.  Some of these wagons passed still onward, uncontent.
Others swerved and scattered over the country to the south and southwest, from which the Indian
tribes had now been driven, and which appeared more tempting to the farming man than lands
farther to the west and higher up that gradual and wonderful incline which reaches from the
Missouri River to the Rockies.  One by one, here and there, these new men selected their lands
and made their first rude attempts at building for themselves the homes which they coveted
and had come far to win.

Ellisville lay at an eddy in the Plains, and gathered toll of the strange driftwood which was
then afloat.  Though the chutes at the railway were busy, yet other herds of cattle passed
Ellisville and wandered on north, crowding at the heels of the passing Indians, who now began
to see their own cattle to be doomed.  The main herd of the buffalo was now reported to be
three or four days' drive from Ellisville, and the men who killed for the railroad camps uttered
loud complaints.  The skin-hunting still went on.  Great wagons, loaded with parties of rough
men, passed on out, bound for the inner haunts, where they might still find their prey.  The
wagons came creaking back loaded with bales of the shaggy brown robes, which gave the skin-hunters
money with which to join the cowmen at the drinking places.  Some of the skin-hunters, some
of the railroad men, some of the cowmen, some of the home-seekers, remained in the eddy at
Ellisville, this womanless beginning of a permanent society.  Not sinless was this society
at its incipiency.  In any social atmosphere good and evil are necessary concomitants.  Sinless
men would form a community at best but perishable.  Tolerance, submission, patriotism so called,
brotherly love so named--all these things were to come later, as they have ever done in the
development of communities, builded mainly upon the foundation of individual aggressiveness
and individual centrifugence. Having arrived, we wave scented kerchiefs between us and the
thought of such a beginning of our prosperity.  Having become slaves, we scoff at the thought
of a primitive, grand, and happy world, where each man was a master.  Having lost touch of
the earth, having lost sight of the sky, we opine there could have been small augur in a land
where each man found joy in an earth and sky which to him seemed his own. 'What a wife our prince
will have!'said Becasigue bowing low;'but I must hasten back with the tidings, and to prepare the
underground chamber for the princess.'And so he took his leave.

In a few days the carriage commanded by the princess was ready.

It was of green velvet, scattered over with large golden thistles,
and lined inside with silver brocade embroidered with pink roses.

It had no windows, of course; but the fairy Tulip, whose counsel
had been asked, had managed to light it up with a soft glow that came
no one knew whither.

It was carried straight up into the great hall of the tower, and the princess stepped into it,
followed by her faithful maid of honour, Eglantine, and by her lady in waiting Cerisette, who
also had fallen in love with the prince's portrait and was bitterly jealous of her mistress. The
fourth place in the carriage was filled by Cerisette's mother, who had been sent by the queen to
look after the three young people.

Now the Fairy of the Fountain was the godmother of the princess Nera, to whom the prince had
been betrothed before the picture of Desiree had made him faithless. She was very angry at
the slight put upon her godchild, and from that moment kept careful watch on the princess. In
this journey she saw her chance, and it was she who, invisible, sat by Cerisette, and put bad thoughts
into the minds of both her and her mother.

The way to the city where the prince lived ran for the most part through
a thick forest, and every night when there was no moon, and not a
single star could be seen through the trees, the guards who travelled
with the princess opened the carriage to give it an airing. This went
on for several days, till only twelve hours journey lay between them
and the palace.

The driver of the wagon, a tall, dark man, drew rein with a grave salutation, his tired horses
standing with drooping heads while there took place one of the pregnant conversations of the
Plains.

"Mornin', friend," said Sam.

"Mornin', sir," said the other.

"Which way you headin', friend?" asked Sam.

"Well, sir," came the answer, slowly, "I rather reckon you've got me. I've just been movin'
on out.  I want to locate, but I reckon my team could travel a little further if they had to."
This with a certain grimness in his smile, as though he realized the whimsicality of the average
motive which governed in that day in quests like his.  "Is there much travel comin' through
here this season?" he resumed, turning in his seat and resting one foot on the wheel as he
sat still perched on the high wagon seat.

"Well," replied Sam, "they ain't so much just yet, but they will be pretty soon.  You see,
the Land Office is about sixty mile east of here yet, and folks is mostly stoppin' in there. 'Oh,
I have let fall my bran!'cried she;'please get down and pick it up
for me.'But Jose only answered:'We shall find plenty of bran where
we are going.'And the horse galloped on.

They
were now passing through a forest, and the princess took out her handkerchief
and threw it upwards, so that it stuck in one of the topmost branches
of a tree.'Dear me; how stupid!

I have let my handkerchief blow away,'said she.'Will you climb up
and get it for me?'But Jose answered:'We shall find plenty of handkerchiefs
where we are going.'And the horse galloped on.

After the wood they reached a river, and the princess slipped a ring
off her finger and let it roll into the water.'How careless of me,'gasped
she, beginning to sob.'I have lost my favourite ring; DO stop for
a moment and look if you can see it.'But Jose answered:'You will find
plenty of rings where you are going.'And the horse galloped on.

At last they entered the palace gates, and the king's heart bounded
with joy at beholding his beloved Princess Bella-Flor.

But the princess brushed him aside as if he had been a fly, and locked
herself into the nearest room, which she would not open for all his
entreaties.'Bring me the three things I lost on the way, and perhaps
I may think about it,'was all she would say.

And, in despair, the king was driven to take counsel of Jose.'There is no remedy that I can
see,'said his majesty,'but that you, who know where they are, should
go and bring them back.

And if you return without them I will have you drowned.'Poor Jose was much troubled at these words.
He thought that he had done all that was required of him, and that
his life was safe.

However, he bowed low, and went out to consult his friend the horse.'Do
not vex yourself,'said the horse, when he had heard the story;'jump
up, and we will go and look for the things.'And Jose mounted at once.

They rode on till they came to the ant-hill, and then the horse asked:'Would you like to have
the bran?'' What is the use of liking?'answered Jose.'Well, call the
ants, and tell them to fetch it for you; and, if some of it has been
scattered by the wind, to bring in its stead the grains that were
in the cakes you gave them.'Jose listened in surprise.

He did not much believe in the horse's plan; but he could not think of
anything better, so he called to the ants, and bade them collect the
bran as fast as they could.

Then he saw under a tree and waited, while his horse cropped the green
turf.'Look there!'said the animal, suddenly raising its head; and
Jose looked behind him and saw a little mountain of bran, which he
put into a bag that was hung over his saddle.'Good deeds bear fruit
sooner or later,'observed the horse;'but mount again, as we have far
to go.'When they arrived at the tree, they saw the handkerchief fluttering
like a flag from the topmost branch, and Jose's spirits sank again.'How
am I to get that handkerchief?'cried he;'why I should need Jacob's
ladder!'But the horse answered:'Do not be frightened; call to the
eagle you set free from the net, he will bring it to you.'So Jose
called to the eagle, and the eagle flew to the top of the tree and
brought back the handkerchief in its beak.

Jose thanked him, and vaulting on his horse they rode on to the river.

A great deal of rain had fallen in the night, and the river, instead of being clear as it was before,
was dark and troubled.'How am I to fetch the ring from the bottom
of this river when I do not know exactly where it was dropped, and
cannot even see it?'asked Jose.

But the horse answered:'Do not be frightened; call the little fish
whose life you saved, and she will bring it to you.'So he called to
the fish, and the fish dived to the bottom and slipped behind big
stones, and moved little ones with its tail till it found the ring,
and brought it to Jose in its mouth.

Well pleased with all he had done, Jose returned to the palace; but when the king took the precious
objects to Bella-Flor, she declared that she would never open her
door till the bandit who had carried her off had been fried in oil.'I
am very sorry,'said the king to Jose,'I really would rather not; but
you see I have no choice.'While the oil was being heated in the great
caldron, Jose went to the stables to inquire of his friend the horse
if there was no way for him to escape.'Do not be frightened,'said
the horse.'Get on my back, and I will gallop till my whole body is
wet with perspiration, then rub it all over your skin, and no matter
how hot the oil may be you will never feel it.'Jose did not ask any
more questions, but did as the horse bade him; and men wondered at
his cheerful face as they lowered him into the caldron of boiling
oil.

He was left there till Bella-Flor cried that he must be cooked enough. Then out came a youth
so young and handsome, that everyone fell in love with him, and Bella-Flor
most of all.

As for the old king, he saw that he had lost the game; and in despair
he flung himself into the caldron, and was fried instead of Jose.

Then Jose was proclaimed king, on condition that he married Bella-Flor
which he promised to do the next day.

But first he went to the stables and sought out the horse, and said
to him:'It is to you that I owe my life and my crown.

Why have you done all this for me?'And the horse answered:'I am the soul of that unhappy man for
whom you spent all your fortune. And when I saw you in danger of death
I begged that I might help you, as you had helped me.

For, as I told you, Good deeds bear their own fruit!'The Bird of Truth [From Cuentos, Oraciones, y Adivinas,
por Fernan Caballero.] Once upon a time there lived a poor fisher
who built a hut on the banks of a stream which, shunning the glare
of the sun and the noise of the towns, flowed quietly past trees and
under bushes, listening to the songs of the birds overhead.

One day, when the fisherman had gone out as usual to cast his nets,
he saw borne towards him on the current a cradle of crystal.

Slipping his net quickly beneath it he drew it out and lifted the
silk coverlet. Inside, lying on a soft bed of cotton, were two babies,
a boy and a girl, who opened their eyes and smiled at him.

The man was filled with pity at the sight, and throwing down his
lines he took the cradle and the babies home to his wife.

The
good woman flung up her hands in despair when she beheld the contents of the cradle.'Are not eight
children enough,'she cried,'without bringing us two more?

How do you think we can feed them?'' You would not have had me leave them to die of hunger,'answered
he,'or be swallowed up by the waves of the sea?

What is enough for eight is also enough for ten.'The wife said no
more; and in truth her heart yearned over the little creatures.

Somehow or other food was never lacking in the hut, and the children grew up and were so good
and gentle that, in time, their foster-parents loved them as well
or better than their own, who were quarrelsome and envious.

It did not take the orphans long to notice that the boys did not
like them, and were always playing tricks on them, so they used to
go away by themselves and spend whole hours by the banks of the river.

Here they would take out the bits of bread they had saved from their breakfasts and crumble them
for the birds.

In return, the birds taught them many things: how to get up early in
the morning, how to sing, and how to talk their language, which very
few people know.

But though the little orphans did their best to avoid quarrelling with their foster-brothers,
it was very difficult always to keep the peace.

Matters got worse and worse till, one morning, the eldest boy said to
the twins:'It is all very well for you to pretend that you have such
good manners, and are so much better than we, but we have at least
a father and mother, while you have only got the river, like the toads
and the frogs.'The poor children did not answer the insult; but it
made them very unhappy.

And they told each other in whispers that they could not stay there
any longer, but must go into the world and seek their fortunes. So
next day they arose as early as the birds and stole downstairs without
anybody hearing them.

One window was open, and they crept softly out and ran to the side of the river. Then, feeling
as if they had found a friend, they walked along its banks, hoping
that by-and-by they should meet some one to take care of them.

The whole of that day they went steadily on without seeing a living creature, till, in the evening,
weary and footsore, they saw before them a small hut.

This raised their spirits for a moment; but the door was shut, and the hut seemed empty, and
so great was their disappointment that they almost cried. However,
the boy fought down his tears, and said cheerfully:'Well, at any
rate here is a bench where we can sit down, and when we are rested
we will think what is best to do next.'Then they sat down, and for
some time they were too tired even to notice anything; but by-and-by
they saw that under the tiles of the roof a number of swallows were
sitting, chattering merrily to each other.

Of course the
swallows had no idea that the children understood their language, or they
would not have talked so freely; but, as it was, they said whatever
came into their heads.'Good evening, my fine city madam,'remarked
a swallow, whose manners were rather rough and countryfied to another
who looked particularly distinguished.'Happy, indeed, are the eyes
that behold you!

Only think of your having returned to your long-forgotten country friends, after you have lived
for years in a palace!'' I have inherited this nest from my parents,'replied
the other,'and as they left it to me I certainly shall make it my
home.

But,'she added politely,'I hope that you and all your family are well?'' Very well indeed,
I am glad to say. But my poor daughter had, a short time ago, such bad inflammation in her eyes
that she would have gone blind had I not been able to find the magic herb, which cured her at
once.'' And how is the nightingale singing? Does the lark soar as high
as ever?

And does the linnet dress herself as smartly?'But here the country
swallow drew herself up.'I never talk gossip,'she said severely.'Our
people, who were once so innocent and well-behaved, have been corrupted
by the bad examples of men.

It is a thousand pities.'' What! innocence and good behaviour are not to be met with among birds,
nor in the country! My dear friend, what are you saying?'' The truth and nothing more. Imagine,
when we returned here, we met some linnets who, just as the spring
and the flowers and the long days had come, were setting out for the
north and the cold?

Out of pure compassion we tried to persuade them to give up this
folly; but they only replied with the utmost insolence.'' How shocking!'exclaimed
the city swallow.'Yes, it was.

And worse than that, the crested lark, that was formerly so timid
and shy, is now no better than a thief, and steals maize and corn
whenever she can find them.'' I am astonished at what you say.'' You
will be more astonished when I tell you that on my arrival here for
the summer I found my nest occupied by a shameless sparrow!

"This is my nest," I said. "Yours?" he answered, with a rude laugh. "Yes, mine; my ancestors were born
here, and my sons will be born here also." And at that my husband set upon him and threw him
out of the nest.

I am sure nothing of this sort ever happens in a town.'' Not exactly, perhaps. But I have seen
a great deal-- if you only knew!'' Oh! do tell us! do tell us!'cried
they all.

And when they had settled themselves comfortably, the city swallow
began:'You must know, then that our king fell in love with the youngest
daughter of a tailor, who was as good and gentle as she was beautiful.

His nobles hoped that he would have chosen a queen from one of their
daughters, and tried to prevent the marriage; but the king would
not listen to them, and it took place.

Not many months later a war broke out, and the king rode away at
the head of his army, while the queen remained behind, very unhappy
at the separation.

When peace was made, and the king returned, he was told that his
wife had had two babies in his absence, but that both were dead; that
she herself had gone out of her mind and was obliged to be shut up
in a tower in the mountains, where, in time, the fresh air might cure
her.'' And was this not true?'asked the swallows eagerly.'Of course
not,'answered the city lady, with some contempt for their stupidity.'The
children were alive at that very moment in the gardener's cottage;
but at night the chamberlain came down and put them in a cradle of
crystal, which he carried to the river.'For a whole day they floated
safely, for though the stream was deep it was very still, and the
children took no harm.

In the morning-- so I am told by my friend the kingfisher-- they were rescued by a fisherman
who lived near the river bank.'The children had been lying on the
bench, listening lazily to the chatter up to this point; but when
they heard the story of the crystal cradle which their foster-mother
had always been fond of telling them, they sat upright and looked
at each other.'Oh, how glad I am I learnt the birds'language!'said
the eyes of one to the eyes of the other.

Meanwhile the swallows had spoken again.'That was indeed good fortune!'cried they.'And when
the children are grown up they can return to their father and set
their mother free.'' It will not be so easy as you think,'answered
the city swallow, shaking her head;'for they will have to prove that
they are the king's children, and also that their mother never went
mad at all.

In fact, it is so difficult that there is only one way of proving it to the king.'' And what
is that?'cried all the swallows at once.'And how do you know it?'' I know it,'answered the city swallow,'because,
one day, when I was passing through the palace garden, I met a cuckoo, who, as I need not tell
you, always pretends to be able to see into the future. We began to talk about certain things
which were happening in the palace, and of the events of past years. "Ah,"
said he, "the only person who can expose the wickedness of the ministers
and show the king how wrong he has been, is the Bird of Truth, who
can speak the language of men."'"And where can this bird be found?"

I asked.'"It is shut up in a castle guarded by a fierce giant, who only sleeps one quarter of an
hour out of the whole twenty-four," replied the cuckoo.'And where is this castle?'inquired the country
swallow, who, like all the rest, and the children most of all, had
been listening with deep attention.'That is just what I don't know,'answered
her friend.'All I can tell you is that not far from here is a tower,
where dwells an old witch, and it is she who knows the way, and she
will only teach it to the person who promises to bring her the water
from the fountain of many colours, which she uses for her enchantments.

But never will she betray the place where the Bird of Truth is hidden, for she hates him, and
would kill him if she could; knowing well, however, that this bird cannot die, as he is immortal,
she keeps him closely shut up, and guarded night and day by the Birds
of Bad Faith, who seek to gag him so that his voice should not be
heard.'' And is there no one else who can tell the poor boy where to
find the bird, if he should ever manage to reach the tower?'asked
the country swallow.'No one,'replied the city swallow,'except an owl,
who lives a hermit's life in that desert, and he knows only one word
of man's speech, and that is "cross."

So that even if the prince did succeed in getting there, he could never understand what the owl
said. But, look, the sun is sinking to his nest in the depths of the sea, and I must go to mine.
Good-night, friends, good-night!'Then the swallow flew away, and
the children, who had forgotten both hunger and weariness in the joy
of this strange news, rose up and followed in the direction of her
flight.

After two hours'walking, they arrived at a large city, which they felt sure must be the capital
of their father's kingdom. Seeing a good-natured looking woman standing at the door of a house,
they asked her if she would give them a night's lodging, and she
was so pleased with their pretty faces and nice manners that she welcomed
them warmly.

It was scarcely light the next morning before the girl was sweeping out the rooms, and the boy
watering the garden, so that by the time the good woman came downstairs there was nothing left
for her to do. This so delighted her that she begged the children to stay with her altogether,
and the boy answered that he would leave his sisters with her gladly,
but that he himself had serious business on hand and must not linger
in pursuit of it.

So he bade them farewell and set out. Franklin's forethought had provided the houses of himself and Battersleigh
with proper fuel, and he was quite ready to listen to Curly when the latter suggested that
it might be a good thing for them to follow the usual custom and go out on a hunt for the buffalo
herd, in order to supply themselves with their winter's meat.

Before the oncoming white men these great animals were now rapidly passing away, from month
to month withdrawing farther back from the settlements.  Reports from the returning skin-hunters
set the distance of the main herd at three to five days' journey.  The flesh of the buffalo
was now a marketable commodity at any point along the railway; but the settler who owned a
team and a rifle was much more apt to go out and kill his own meat than to buy it of another.
There were many wagons which went out that fall from Ellisville besides those of the party
with which Franklin, Battersleigh, and Curly set out.  These three had a wagon and riding horses,
and they were accompanied by a second wagon, owned by Sam, the liveryman, who took with him
Curly's mozo, the giant Mexican, Juan.  The latter drove the team, a task which Curly scornfully
refused when it was offered him, his cowboy creed rating any conveyance other than the saddle
as far beneath his station.

"Juan can drive all right," he said.  "He druv a cook wagon all the way from the Red River
up here.  Let him and Sam drive, and us three fellers'll ride."

The task of the drivers was for the most part simple, as the flat floor of the prairies stretched
away evenly mile after mile, the horses jogging along dejectedly but steadily over the unbroken
short gray grass, ignorant and careless of any road or trail.

At night they slept beneath the stars, uncovered by any tent, and saluted constantly by the
whining coyotes, whose vocalization was betimes broken by the hoarser, roaring note of the
great gray buffalo wolf.  At morn they awoke to an air surcharged with some keen elixir which
gave delight in sense of living.  The subtle fragrance of the plains, born of no fruit or flower,
but begotten of the sheer cleanliness of the thrice-pure air, came to their nostrils as they
actually snuffed the day.  So came the sun himself, with heralds of pink and royal purple,
with banners of flaming red and gold.  At this the coyotes saluted yet more shrilly and generally.
The lone gray wolf, sentinel on some neighbouring ridge, looked down, contemptuous in his wisdom.
Perhaps a band of antelope tarried at some crest.  Afar upon the morning air came the melodious
trumpeting of wild fowl, rising from some far-off unknown roosting place and setting forth
upon errand of their own.  All around lay a new world, a wild world, a virgin sphere not yet
acquaint with man.  Phoenicians of the earthy seas, these travellers daily fared on into regions
absolutely new.

Early upon the morning of the fourth day of their journey the travellers noted that the plain
began to rise and sink in longer waves. Presently they found themselves approaching a series
of rude and wild-looking hills of sand, among which they wound deviously as they might, confronted
often by forbidding buttes and lofty dunes whose only sign of vegetation was displayed in a
ragged fringe of grass which waved like a scalp lock here and there upon the summits.  For
many miles they travelled through this difficult and cheerless region, the horses soon showing
signs of distress and all the party feeling need of water, of which the supply had been exhausted.
It was nearly noon while they were still involved in this perplexing region, and as none of
the party had ever seen the country before, none could tell how long it might be before they
would emerge from it.  They pushed on in silence, intent upon what might be ahead, so that
when there came an exclamation from the half-witted Mexican, whose stolid silence under most
circumstances had become a proverb among them, each face was at once turned toward him.

"Eh, what's that, Juan?" said Curly--"Say, boys, he says we're about out of the sand hills.
Prairie pretty soon now, he says."

"And will ye tell me, now," said Battersleigh, "how the haythen knows a bit more of it than
we oursilves?  He's never been here before.  I'm thinkin' it's pure guess he's givin' us, me boy."

"No, sir," said Curly, positively.  "If Juan says a thing like that, he knows.  I don't know
how he knows it, but he shore does, and I'll gamble on him every time.  You see, he ain't hardly
like folks, that feller.  He's more like a critter.  He knows a heap of things that you and
me don't."

"That's curious," said Franklin.  "How do you account for it?"

"Kin savvy," said Curly.  "I don't try to account for it, me.  I only know it's so.  You see
if it ain't."

And so it was.  The wall of the sand hills was for a time apparently as endless and impervious
as ever, and they still travelled on in silence, the Mexican making no further sign of interest.
Yet presently the procession of the sand dunes began to show gaps and open places.  The hills
grew less tall and more regular of outline.  Finally they shrank and fell away, giving place
again to the long roll of the prairie, across which, and near at hand to the edge of the sand
hills, there cut the open and flat bed of a water way, now apparently quite dry.

"We're all right for water now," said Sam.  "See that little pile of rocks, 'bout as high as
your head, off to the right down the creek? But this second search was no more fortunate than the first, and at
last the king issued a proclamation that whoever found the missing
slipper should be made heir to the crown, and should marry the princess.

Now many daughters would have rebelled at being disposed of in the
manner; and it must be admitted that Diamantina's heart sank when
she heard what the king had done.

Still, she loved her father so much that she desired his comfort more than anything else in the
world, so she said nothing, and only bowed her head.

Of course the result of the proclamation was that the river banks became more crowded than before; for
all the princess's suitors from distant lands flocked to the spot,
each hoping that he might be the lucky finder.

Many times a shining stone at the bottom of the stream was taken for the slipper itself, and every
evening saw a band of dripping downcast men returning homewards. But one youth always lingered
longer than the rest, and night would still see him engaged in the search, though his clothes stuck
to his skin and his teeth chattered. One day, when the king was lying
on his bed racked with pain, he heard the noise of a scuffle going
on in his antechamber, and rang a golden bell that stood by his side
to summon one of his servants.'Sire,'answered the attendant, when
the king inquired what was the matter,'the noise you heard was caused
by a young man from the town, who has had the impudence to come here
to ask if he may measure your majesty's foot, so as to make you another
slipper in place of the lost one.'' And what have you done to the youth?'said
the king.'The servants pushed him out of the palace, and, added a
few blows to teach him not to be insolent,'replied the man.'Then they
did very ill,'answered the king, with a frown.'He came here from kindness,
and there was no reason to maltreat him.'' Oh, my lord, he had the
audacity to wish to touch your majesty's sacred person-- he, a good-for-nothing
boy, a mere shoemaker's apprentice, perhaps!

And even if he could make shoes to perfection they would be no use
without the soothing balsam.'The king remained silent for a few moments,
then he said:'Never mind.

Go and fetch the youth and bring him to me. I would gladly try any remedy that may relieve my
pain.'So, soon afterwards, the youth, who had not gone far from the
palace, was caught and ushered into the king's presence.

He was tall and handsome and, though he professed to make shoes, his manners were good and modest,
and he bowed low as he begged the king not only to allow him to take the measure of his foot, but
also to suffer him to place a healing plaster over the wound. Balancin
was pleased with the young man's voice and appearance, and thought
that he looked as if he knew what he was doing.

So he stretched out his bad foot which the
youth examined with great attention, and then gently laid on the
plaster.

Very shortly the ointment began to soothe the sharp pain, and the
king, whose confidence increased every moment, begged the young man
to tell him his name.'I have no parents; they died when I was six,
sire,'replied the youth, modestly.'Everyone in the town calls me Gilguerillo,
because, when I was little, I went singing through the world in spite
of my misfortunes.

Luckily for me I was born to be happy.'' And you really think you can cure me?'asked the king.'Completely,
my lord,'answered Gilguerillo.'And how long do you think it will
take?'' It is not an easy task; but I will try to finish it in a fortnight,'replied
the youth.

A fortnight seemed to the king a long time to make one slipper. But
he only said:'Do you need anything to help you?'' Only a good horse, if your
majesty will be kind enough to give me one,'answered Gilguerillo.

And the reply was so unexpected that the courtiers could hardly restrain
their smiles, while the king stared silently.'You shall have the horse,'he
said at last,'and I shall expect you back in a fortnight.

If
you fulfil your promise you know your reward; if not, I will have
you flogged for your impudence.'Gilguerillo bowed, and turned to leave
the palace, followed by the jeers and scoffs of everyone he met.

But he paid no heed, for he had got what he wanted. He waited in front of the gates till a
magnificent horse was led up to him, and vaulting into the saddle
with an ease which rather surprised the attendant, rode quickly out
of the town amidst the jests of the assembled crowd, who had heard
of his audacious proposal.

And while he is on his way let us pause for a moment and tell who he is. Both father and mother
had died before the boy was six years old; and he had lived for many
years with his uncle, whose life had been passed in the study of
chemistry.

He could leave no money to his nephew, as he had a son of his own; but he taught him all he knew, and
at his dead Gilguerillo entered an office, where he worked for many hours daily. In his spare
time, instead of playing with the other boys, he passed hours poring
over books, and because he was timid and liked to be alone he was
held by everyone to be a little mad.

Therefore, when it became known that he had promised to cure the king's foot, and had ridden
away-- no one knew where-- a roar of laughter and mockery rang through the town, and jeers and
scoffing words were sent after him.

But if they had only known what were Gilguerillo's thoughts they would have thought him madder than
ever.

The real truth was that, on the morning when the princess had walked through the streets before
making holiday on the river Gilguerillo had seen her from his window, and had straightway fallen
in love with her.

Of course he felt quite hopeless.

It was absurd to imagine that the apothecary's nephew could ever
marry the king's daughter; so he did his best to forget her, and study
harder than before, till the royal proclamation suddenly filled him
with hope.

When he was free he no longer spent the precious moments poring over
books, but, like the rest, he might have been seen wandering along
the banks of the river, or diving into the stream after something
that lay glistening in the clear water, but which turned out to be
a white pebble or a bit of glass.

And at the end he understood that it was not by the river that he
would win the princess; and, turning to his books for comfort, he
studied harder than ever.

There is an old proverb which says:'Everything comes to him who knows
how to wait.'It is not all men who know hot to wait, any more than
it is all men who can learn by experience; but Gilguerillo was one
of the few and instead of thinking his life wasted because he could
not have the thing he wanted most, he tried to busy himself in other
directions.

So, one day, when he expected it least, his reward came to him.

He happened to be reading a book many hundreds of years old, which
told of remedies for all kinds of diseases.

Most of them, he knew, were merely invented by old women, who sought to prove themselves wiser
than other people; but at length he came to something which caused him to
sit up straight in his chair, and made his eyes brighten.

This was the description of a balsam-- which would cure every kind of sore or wound-- distilled
from a plant only to be found in a country so distant that it would
take a man on foot two months to go and come back again.

When I say that the book declared that
the balsam could heal every sort of sore or wound, there were a few
against which it was powerless, and it gave certain signs by which
these might be known.

This was the reason why Gilguerillo demanded to see the king's foot
before he would undertake to cure it; and to obtain admittance he
gave out that he was a shoemaker.

However, the dreaded signs were absent, and his heart bounded at the thought that the princess was
within his reach. Perhaps she was; but a great deal had to be accomplished yet, and he had allowed
himself a very short time in which to do it. He spared his horse only so much as was needful,
yet it took him six days to reach the spot where the plant grew.

A thick wood lay in front of him, and, fastening the bridle tightly to a tree, he flung himself on
his hands and knees and began to hunt for the treasure. Many time he fancied it was close to him, and
many times it turned out to be something else; but, at last, when light was fading, and he had
almost given up hope, he came upon a large bed of the plant, right under his feet! Trembling with
joy, he picked every scrap he could see, and placed it in his wallet.
Then, mounting his horse, he galloped quickly back towards the city.
It was night when he entered the gates, and the fifteen days allotted
were not up till the next day.

His eyes were heavy with sleep, and his body ached with the long
strain, but, without pausing to rest, he kindled a fire on is hearth, and
quickly filling a pot with water, threw in the herbs and left them to
boil.

After that he lay down and slept soundly. The sun was shining when he awoke, and he jumped up
and ran to the pot.

The plant had disappeared and in its stead was a thick syrup, just as the book had said there would
be. He lifted the syrup out with a spoon, and after spreading it in the sun till it was partly dry,
poured it into a small flask of crystal. He next washed himself thoroughly, and dressed himself, in
his best clothes, and putting the flask in his pocket, set out for the palace, and begged to see the
king without delay. Now Balancin, whose foot had been much less painful since Gilguerillo
had wrapped it in the plaster, was counting the days to the young
man's return; and when he was told Gilguerillo was there, ordered him
to be admitted at once. As he entered, the king raised himself eagerly
on his pillows, but his face fell when he saw no signs of a slipper.'You
have failed, then?'he said, throwing up his hands in despair.'I hope
not, your majesty; I think not,'answered the youth.

And drawing the flask from his pocket, he poured two or three drops
on the wound.'Repeat this for three nights, and you will find yourself
cured,'said he.

And before the king had time to thank him he had bowed himself out. Of course the news soon spread
through the city, and men and women never tired of calling Gilguerillo
an impostor, and prophesying that the end of the three days would see him
in prison, if not on the scaffold. But Gilguerillo paid no heed to
their hard words, and no more did the king, who took care that no
hand but his own should put on the healing balsam.

On the fourth morning the king awoke and instantly stretched out
his wounded foot that he might prove the truth or falsehood of Gilguerillo's
remedy.

The wound was certainly cured on that side, but how about the other? Yes, that was cured also; and
not even a scar was left to show where it had been! Was ever any king so happy as Balancin
when he satisfied himself of this? Lightly as a deer he jumped from his
bed, and began to turn head over heels and to perform all sorts of
antics, so as to make sure that his foot was in truth as well as
it looked.

And when he was quite tired he sent for his daughter, and bade the courtiers bring the lucky
young man to his room.'He is really young and handsome,'said the princess to herself, heaving a sigh
of relief that it was not some dreadful old man who had healed her
father; and while the king was announcing to his courtiers the wonderful
cure that had been made, Diamantina was thinking that if Gilguerillo
looked so well in his common dress, how much improved by the splendid
garments of a king'son.

However, she held her peace, and only watched with amusement when the courtiers, knowing there
was no help for it, did homage and obeisance to the chemist's boy. Then they brought to Gilguerillo
a magnificent tunic of green velvet bordered with gold, and a cap with three white plumes stuck
in it; and at the sight of him so arrayed, the princess fell in love
with him in a moment.

The wedding was fixed to take place in eight days, and at the ball afterwards nobody danced so
long or so lightly as king Balancin.

The Magic Book [From Capullos de Rosa, por D. Enrique Ceballos Quintana.] [From AEventyr fra
Zylland samlede og optegnede af Tang Kristensen.

Translated from the Danish by Mrs. Skavgaard-Pedersen.] There was once an old couple named Peder
and Kirsten who had an only son called Hans.

From the time he was a little boy he had been told that on his sixteenth birthday he must go out
into the world and serve his apprenticeship. So, one fine summer morning, he started off to
seek his fortune with nothing but the clothes he wore on his back. For many hours he trudged on
merrily, now and then stopping to drink from some clear spring or to pick some ripe fruit from
a tree. The little wild creatures peeped at him from beneath the bushes, and he nodded and
smiled, and wished them'Good-morning.'After he had been walking for
some time he met an old white-bearded man who was coming along the
footpath.

The boy would not step aside, and the man was determined not to do so
either, so they ran against one another with a bump.'It seems to
me,'said the old fellow,'that a boy should give way to an old man.'' The
path is for me as well as for you,'answered young Hans saucily, for
he had never been taught politeness.'Well, that's true enough,'answered
the other mildly.'And where are you going?'' I am going into service,'said
Hans.'Then you can come and serve me,'replied the man.

Well, Hans could do that; but what would his wages be?'Two pounds a year, and nothing to do but
keep some rooms clean,'said the new-comer. This seemed to Hans to be easy enough; so he agreed to
enter the old man's service, and they set out together.

On their way they crossed a deep valley and came to a mountain, where the man opened a trapdoor,
and bidding Hans follow him, he crept in and began to go down a long
flight of steps.

When they got to the bottom Hans saw a large number of rooms lit by many lamps and full of
beautiful things.

While he was looking round the old man said to him:'Now you know what you have to do. You must keep
these rooms clean, and strew sand on the floor every day.

Here is a table where you will always find food and drink, and there
is your bed. You see there are a great many suits of clothes hanging
on the wall, and you may wear any you please; but remember that you
are never to open this locked door.

If you do ill will befall you. Farewell, for I am going away again and cannot tell when I may
return.

No sooner had the old man disappeared than Hans sat down to a good
meal, and after that went to bed and slept until the morning.

At first he could not remember what had happened to him, but by-and-by he jumped up and went
into all the rooms, which he examined carefully.'How foolish to bid
me to put sand on the floors,'he thought,'when there is nobody here
by myself!

I shall do nothing of the sort.'And so he shut the doors quickly, and only cleaned and set in
order his own room.

And after the first few days he felt that that was unnecessary too, because no one came there to see
if the rooms where clean or not. At last he did no work at all, but just sat and wondered what
was behind the locked door, till he determined to go and look for himself. The key turned easily
in the lock. Hans entered, half frightened at what he was doing,
and the first thing he beheld was a heap of bones.

That was not very cheerful; and he was just going out again when his
eye fell on a shelf of books. Here was a good way of passing the time, he
thought, for he was fond of reading, and he took one of the books
from the shelf.

It was all about magic, and told you how you could change yourself into anything in the world
you liked. Could anything be more exciting or more useful?

So he put it in his pocket, and ran quickly away out of the mountain
by a little door which had been left open.

When he got home his parents asked him what he had been doing and where he had got the fine clothes
he wore.'Oh, I earned them myself,'answered he.'You never earned
them in this short time,'said his father.'Be off with you; I won't
keep you here.

I will have no thieves in my house!'' Well I only came to help you,'replied the boy sulkily.'Now
I'll be off, as you wish; but to-morrow morning when you rise you
will see a great dog at the door.

Do not drive it away, but take it to the castle and sell it to the duke, and they will give you
ten dollars for it; only you must bring the strap you lead it with, back
to the house.'Sure enough the next day the dog was standing at the door
waiting to be let in. The old man was rather afraid of getting into trouble,
but his wife urged him to sell the dog as the boy had bidden him,
so he took it up to the castle and sold it to the duke for ten dollars.

But he did not forget to take off the strap with which he had led
the animal, and to carry it home. When he got there old Kirsten met him at
the door.'Well, Peder, and have you sold the dog?'asked she.'Yes,
Kirsten; and I have brought back ten dollars, as the boy told us,'answered
Peder.'Ay! but that's fine!'said his wife.'Now you see what one gets
by doing as one is bid; if it had not been for me you would have driven
the dog away again, and we should have lost the money.

After all, I always know what is best.'' Nonsense!'said her husband;'women always think they
know best. I should have sold the dog just the same whatever you had told me. Put the money away in a safe
place, and don't talk so much.'The next day Hans came again; but
though everything had turned out as he had foretold, he found that
his father was still not quite satisfied.'Be off with you!'said he,'you'll
get us into trouble.'' I haven't helped you enough yet,'replied the
boy.'To-morrow there will come a great fat cow, as big as the house.

Take it to the king's palace and you'll get as much as a thousand dollars for it. Only you must
unfasten the halter you lead it with and bring it back, and don't
return by the high road, but through the forest.'The next day, when
the couple rose, they saw an enormous head looking in at their bedroom
window, and behind it was a cow which was nearly as big as their hut.

Kirsten was wild with joy to think of the money the cow would bring
them.'But how are you going to put the rope over her head?'asked she.'Wait
and you'll see, mother,'answered her husband.

Then Peder took the ladder that led up to the hayloft and set it
against the cow's neck, and he climbed up and slipped the rope over
her head.

When
he had made sure that the noose was fast they started for the palace,
and met the king himself walking in his grounds.'I heard that the
princess was going to be married,'said Peder,'so I've brought your
majesty a cow which is bigger than any cow that was ever seen.

Will your majesty deign to buy it?'The king had, in truth, never
seen so large a beast, and he willingly paid the thousand dollars,
which was the price demanded; but Peder remembered to take off the
halter before he left.

After he was gone the king sent for the butcher and told him to kill the animal for the wedding feast.
The butcher got ready his pole-axe; but just as he was going to strike, the cow changed itself into
a dove and flew away, and the butcher stood staring after it as if he were turned to stone. However,
as the dove could not be found, he was obliged to tell the king what
had happened, and the king in his turn despatched messengers to capture
the old man and bring him back.

But Peder was safe in the woods, and could not be found. When at last he felt the danger was over,
and he might go home, Kirsten nearly fainted with joy at the sight of all the money he brought
with him.'Now that we are rich people we must build a bigger house,'cried she; and was vexed to
find that Peder only shook his head and said:'No; if they did that people would talk, and say
they had got their wealth by ill-doing.'A few mornings later Hans came again.'Be off before
you get us into trouble,'said his father.'So far the money has come
right enough, but I don't trust it.'' Don't worry over that, father,'said
Hans.'To-morrow you will find a horse outside by the gate.

Ride it to market and you will get a thousand dollars for it. Only
don't forget to loosen the bridle when you sell it.'Well, in the
morning there was the horse; Kirsten had never seen so find an animal.'Take
care it doesn't hurt you, Peder,'said she.'Nonsense, wife,'answered
he crossly.'When I was a lad I lived with horses, and could ride anything
for twenty miles round.'But that was not quite the truth, for he had
never mounted a horse in his life.

Still, the animal was quiet enough, so Peder got
safely to market on its back.

There he met a man who offered nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars
for it, but Peder would take nothing less than a thousand.

At last there came an old, grey-bearded man who looked at the horse
and agreed to buy it; but the moment he touched it the horse began
to kick and plunge.'I must take the bridle off,'said Peder.'It is
not to be sold with the animal as is usually the case.'' I'll give
you a hundred dollars for the bridle,'said the old man, taking out
his purse.'No, I can't sell it,'replied Hans's father.'Five hundred
dollars!'' No.'' A thousand!'At this splendid offer Peder's prudence
gave way; it was a shame to let so much money go.

So he agreed to accept it.

But he could hardly hold the horse, it became so unmanageable.

So he gave the animal in charge to the old man, and went home with
his two thousand dollars.

Kirsten, of course, was delighted at this new piece of good fortune, and insisted that the new house
should be built and land bought. This time Peder consented, and soon they had quite a fine farm. Meanwhile
the old man rode off on his new purchase, and when he came to a smithy he asked the smith
to forge shoes for the horse. The smith proposed that they should first have a drink together,
and the horse was tied up by the spring whilst they went indoors.

The day was hot, and both men were thirsty, and, besides, they had much to say; and so the hours
slipped by and found them still talking. Then the servant girl came out
to fetch a pail of water, and, being a kind-hearted lass, she gave
some to the horse to drink.

What was her surprise when the animal said to her:'Take off my bridle and you will save my life.''
I dare not,'said she;'your master will be so angry.'' He cannot hurt you,'answered the horse,'and
you will save my life.'At that she took off the bridle; but nearly
fainted with astonishment when the horse turned into a dove and flew
away just as the old man came out of the house.

Directly he saw what had happened he changed himself into a hawk and flew after the dove. Over
the woods and fields they went, and at length they reached a king's palace surrounded by beautiful
gardens.

The princess was walking with her attendants in the rose garden when the dove turned itself
into a gold ring and fell at her feet.'Why, here is a ring!'she cried,'where could it have
come from?'And picking it up she put it on her finger. As she did so the hill-man lost his power
over Hans-- for of course you understand that it was he who had been the dog, the cow, the horse
and the dove.'Well, that is really strange,'said the princess.'It fits me as though it had
been made for me!'Just at that moment up came the king.'Look at what
I have found!'cried his daughter.'Well, that is not worth much, my
dear,'said he.'Besides, you have rings enough, I should think.'' Never
mind, I like it,'replied the princess.

But as soon as she was alone, to her amazement, the ring suddenly left her finger and became a man.
You can imagine how frightened she was, as, indeed, anybody would have been; but in an instant the
man became a ring again, and then turned back to a man, and so it went on for some time until she
began to get used to these sudden changes.'I am sorry I frightened you,'said Hans, when he thought
he could safely speak to the princess without making her scream.'I took
refuge with you because the old hill-man, whom I have offended, was
trying to kill me, and here I am safe.'' You had better stay here then,'said
the princess.

So Hans stayed, and he and she became good friends; though, of course, he only became a man when
no one else was present.

  Again rose the savage cries of the on-lookers.

Not even yet had the end come.  There was a heaving struggle, a sharp cry, and Juan sprang
back, pressing his hand against his side, where blood came from between his fingers.  The Indian
had worked his left hand to the sheath of his knife, and stabbed the giant who had so nearly
overcome him.  Staggering, the two again stood erect, and yet again came the cries from the
many red men and the little band of whites who were witnessing this barbarous and brutal struggle.
Bows were bending among the blankets, but the four rifles now pointed steadily out.  One movement
would have meant death to many, but that movement was fore-stalled in the still more rapid
happenings of the unfinished combat.  For one-half second the two fighting men stood apart,
the one stunned at his unexpected wound, the other startled that the wound had not proved fatal.
Seeing his antagonist still on his feet.  White Calf for the first time lost courage.  With
the knife still held in his left hand, he hesitated whether to join again in the encounter,
or himself to guard against the attack of a foe so proof to injury. The followers of the Hermit
were accustomed, whenever an unfortunate Jew appeared in the streets,
to raise the cry, "Hep, hep, hurra," to hunt him down, and flash upon
the defenceless Israelite their maiden swords, before they essayed
their temper with the scimetar of the Saracen.-- Tatler.***** Wool-gathering.--
A very patriotic landlord, Squire Henry, of Straffan, county of Kildare,
had hit on an expedient to benefit the wool-growers in general, and
his numerous tenantry in particular.

Knowing that market value is in the direct ratio of demand and scarcity,
he annually buried the wool shorn from his own sheep, lest it might
interfere with the profitable sale of his tenants'fleeces.

But, alas! this generous system of self-sacrifice did not "work well." The result was-- though
Squire Henry never suspected the existence of such turpitude in the human heart-- the ungrateful tenantry
dug up by night what he buried by day, wool never rose in price, and they never were able to pay
up their arrears of rent.-- Fraser's Magazine.***** One day, a physician alighted from his carriage,
and entering the shop of a medical bookseller, inquired of its sleek-faced master, "whether he had a copy
of Heberden's Commentaries?" "No, sir," replied the man of letters,
"but we have Caesar's Commentaries, and they are by far the best."--
Metropolitan.***** Mortality in the reign of William IV.-- Since
the accession of King William not less, we are told, than twenty-four
generals and twenty-six admirals, have found their way into Westminster
Abbey, or elsewhere.

Considering that his majesty continues to receive the most friendly
assurances from all foreign powers, this attack upon the army and
navy list is rather prodigious.

Napoleon himself could scarcely have made greater gaps in the United
Service Club in the time.
It was he who told them now and then of a new region where the crop of bones was not yet fully
gathered.  It was he who showed them how to care for the little number of animals which they
began to gather about them; and who, in short, gave to them full knowledge of the best ways
of exacting a subsistence from the land which they had invaded.

One morning Franklin, thinking to have an additional buffalo robe for the coming winter, and
knowing no manner in which he could get the hide tanned except through his own efforts, set
about to do this work for himself, ignorant of the extent of his task, and relying upon Curly
for advice as to the procedure.

Curly sat on his horse and looked on with contempt as Franklin flung down the raw skin upon
the ground.

"You've shore tackled a bigger job than you know anything about, Cap," said he, "and, besides
that, it ain't a job fittin' fer a man to do. You ought to git some squaw to do that for you."

"But, you see, there aren't any squaws around," said Franklin, smiling. "If you'll tell me
just how the Indians do it I'll try to see how good a job I can make of it."

Curly shifted his leg in his saddle and his cud in his mouth, and pushing his hat back on his
forehead, assumed the position of superintendent.

"Well, it'll take you a long time," said he, "but I 'low it ain't no use tellin' you not to
begin, fer you'll just spile a good hide anyhow. First thing you do, you stretch yer hide out
on the ground, fur side down, and hold it there with about six hundred pegs stuck down around
the edges.  It'll take you a week to do that.  Then you take a knife and scrape all the meat
off the hide.  That sounds easy, but it'll take about another week.  Then you git you a little
hoe, made out of a piece of steel, and you dig, and dig, and dig at that hide till you git
some more meat off, and begin to shave it down, thin like.  You got to git all the grease out
of it, an' you got to make all the horny places soft.  Time you git it dug down right it'll
take you about a year, I reckon, and then you ain't done.  You got to git brains--buffalo brains
is best--and smear all over it, and let 'em dry in.  Then you got to take your hide up and
rub it till it's plum soft.  That'll take you a couple of weeks, I reckon.  Then you kin smoke
it, if you have got any place to smoke it, an' that'll take you a week, it you don't burn it
up.  Sometimes you kin whiten a hide by rubbin' it with white clay, if you can git any clay.
That might take you a few days longer.  Oh, yes, I reckon you kin git the hide tanned if you
live long enough.  You'd ought to put up a sign, 'Captain Franklin, Attorney at Law, an' Hide
Tanner.'"

Franklin laughed heartily at Curly's sarcasm.  "There's one thing sure, Curly," said he; "if
I ever get this thing done I shall have to do the work myself, for no one ever knew you to
do any work but ride a horse. Now, I think I can tan this hide, and do it in less than a year,
and in less than a week, too.  I can peg it out, and I can make me the iron hoe, and I can
soften the hide with brains, and I can rub it until it is finished.  I have, or can get, about
all the ingredients you mention except the clay.  If I had some white pipe clay I believe I
could really make me a beautiful robe for a counterpane for my bed next winter."

"If it's only clay you want," said Curly lazily, "I can git you plenty of that."

"Where?" said Franklin.

"Over in a little holler, to the crick back o' town," said Curly.  "You go on an' tack out
your hide, an' I'll ride over and git you some."

"How'll you carry it," said Franklin, "if you go on horseback?"

"Kerry it!"  said Curly contemptuously.  "How'd you s'pose I'd kerry it?  Why, in my hat, o'
course!" and he rode off without deigning further explanation. I meant there should be nothing uncertain
in my words.

"I surrender," said he; "and if you are bent on shaming me, let us
have it over soon."

"You shall have better treatment than I had in Quebec," answered
I. A moment afterwards, his men were duly surrendered, disarmed, and
guarded, and the Chevalier breakfasted with me, now and again asking
me news of Quebec.

He was much amazed to hear that Bigot had been shot, and distressed that I could not say whether fatally
or not. I fixed on a new plan.

We would now proceed by day as well as by night, for the shallop could not leave the river, and,
besides, I did not care to trust my prisoners on shore.

I threw from the shallop into the stream enough wheat to lighten
her, and now, well stored and trimmed, we pushed away upon our course,
the Chevalier and his men rowing, while my men rested and tended the
sail, which was now set.

I was much loath to cut our good canoe adrift, but she stopped the shallop's way, and she was left
behind.

After a time, our prisoners were in part relieved, and I made the Chevalier rest also, for
he had taken his task in good part, and had ordered his men to submit
cheerfully. In the late afternoon, after an excellent journey, we
saw a high and shaggy point of land, far ahead, which shut off our
view.

I was anxious to see beyond it, for ships of war might appear at any moment. A good breeze
brought up this land, and when we were abreast of it a lofty frigate
was disclosed to view-- a convoy (so the Chevalier said) to a fleet
of transports which that morning had gone up the river.

I resolved instantly, since fight was useless, to make a run for it. Seating myself at the tiller,
I declared solemnly that I would shoot the first man who dared to stop the shallop's way, to make
sign, or speak a word. So, as the frigate stood across the river, I
had all sail set, roused the men at the oars, and we came running
by her stern.

Our prisoners were keen enough to get by in safety, for they were between two fires, and the excellent
Chevalier was as alert and laborious as the rest. They signalled us from the frigate by a shot
to bring to, but we came on gallantly. Another shot whizzed by at a distance, but we did not
change our course, and then balls came flying over our heads, dropping round us, cooling their hot
protests in the river. But none struck us, and presently all fell short. We durst not slacken
pace that night, and by morning, much exhausted, we deemed ourselves safe, and rested for a while,
making a hearty breakfast, though a sombre shadow had settled on
the face of the good Chevalier.

Once more he ventured to protest, but I told him my resolution was fixed, and that I would at all costs
secure escape from my six years'misery. He must abide the fortune of this war. For several
days we fared on, without more mishap. At last, one morning, we hugged the shore, I saw a large
boat lying on the beach. On landing we found the boat of excellent size, and made for swift going,
and presently Clark discovered the oars.

Then I turned to the Chevalier, who was watching me curiously, yet hiding anxiety, for he had upheld
his dignity with some accent since he had come into my service: "Chevalier," said I, "you shall
find me more humane than my persecutors at Quebec.

I will not hinder your going, if you will engage on your honour--
as would, for instance, the Duc de Mirepoix!"-- he bowed to my veiled
irony-- "that you will not divulge what brought you back thus far,
till you shall reach your Kamaraska Isles; and you must undertake
the same for your fellows here."

He consented, and I admired the fine, vain old man, and lamented
that I had had to use him so.

"Then," said I, "you may depart with your shallop. Your mast and sail, however, must be ours;
and for these I will pay. I will also pay for the wheat which was thrown into the river, and you
shall have a share of our provisions, got from the Indians." "Monsieur," said he, "I shall remember
with pride that I have dealt with so fair a foe. I can not regret the pleasure of your acquaintance,
even at the price.

And see, monsieur, I do not think you the criminal they have made you out, and so I will tell
a lady--" I raised my hand at him, for I saw that he knew something, and Mr. Stevens was near us at the
time. "Chevalier," said I, drawing him aside, "if, as you say, you think I have used you honourably,
then, if trouble falls upon my wife before I see her again, I beg
you to stand her friend.

In the sad fortunes of war and hate of me, she may need a friend-- even
against her own people, on her own hearthstone."

I never saw a man so amazed; and to his rapid questionings I gave the one reply, that Alixe was my
wife. His lip trembled. "Poor child! poor child!" he said; "they will put her in a nunnery.
You did wrong, monsieur." "Chevalier," said I, "did you ever love
a woman?"

He made a motion of the hand, as if I had touched upon a tender point,
and said, "So young, so young!"

"But you will stand by her," I urged, "by the memory of some good woman you have known!"
He put out his hand again with a chafing sort of motion. "There,
there," said he, "the poor child shall never want a friend.

If I can help it, she shall not be made a victim of the Church or of the State, nor yet of family
pride-- good God, no!"

Presently we parted, and soon we lost our grateful foes in the distance.
All night we jogged along with easy sail, but just at dawn, in a sudden
opening of the land, we saw a sloop at anchor near a wooded point,
her pennant flying.

We pushed along, unheeding its fiery signal to bring to; and declining, she let fly a swivel loaded
with grape, and again another, riddling our sail; but we were travelling
with wind and tide, and we soon left the indignant patrol behind.

Towards evening came a freshening wind and a cobbling sea, and I
thought it best to make for shore.

So, easing the sail, we brought our shallop before the wind.

It was very dark, and there was a heavy surf running; but we had
to take our fortune as it came, and we let drive for the unknown shore,
for it was all alike to us.

Presently, as
we ran close in, our boat came hard upon a rock, which bulged her
bows open.

Taking what provisions we could, we left our poor craft upon the rocks, and fought our way
to safety.

We had little joy that night in thinking of our shallop breaking
on the reefs, and we discussed the chances of crossing overland to
Louisburg; but we soon gave up that wild dream: this river was the
only way.

When daylight came, we found our boat, though badly wrecked, still held together. Now Clark rose
to the great necessity, and said that he would patch her up to carry us on, or never lift a
hammer more.

With labour past reckoning we dragged her to shore, and got her on
the stocks, and then set about to find materials to mend her.

Tools were all too few-- a hammer, a saw, and an adze were all we had. A piece of board or a
nail were treasures then, and when the timbers of the craft were
covered, for oakum we had resort to tree-gum.

For caulking, one spared a handkerchief, another a stocking, and another
a piece of shirt, till she was stuffed in all her fissures. In this
labour we passed eight days, and then were ready for the launch again.
On the very afternoon fixed for starting, we saw two sails standing
down the river, and edging towards our shore.

One of them let anchor go right off the place where our patched
boat lay.

We had prudently carried on our work behind rocks and trees, so that
we could not be seen, unless our foes came ashore.

Our case seemed desperate enough, but all at once I determined on
a daring enterprise. The two vessels-- convoys, I felt sure-- had anchored
some distance from each other, and from their mean appearance I did
not think that they would have a large freight of men and arms; for
they seemed not ships from France, but vessels of the country.

If I could divide the force of either vessel, and quietly, under cover
of night, steal on her by surprise, then I would trust our desperate
courage, and open the war which soon General Wolfe and Admiral Saunders
were to wage up and down this river.

I had brave fellows with me, and if we got our will it would be a
thing worth remembrance.

So
I disclosed my plan to Mr. Stevens and the others, and, as I looked
for, they had a fine relish for the enterprise. I agreed upon a signal with
them, bade them to lie close along the ground, picked out the nearer
(which was the smaller) ship for my purpose, and at sunset, tying
a white handkerchief to a stick, came marching out of the woods, upon
the shore, firing a gun at the same time.

Presently a boat was put out from the sloop, and two men and a boy
came rowing towards me.

Standing off a little distance from the shore, they asked what was
wanted.

"The King's errand," was my reply in French, and I must be carried
down the river by them, for which I would pay generously.

Then, with idle gesture, I said that if they wished some drink, there
was a bottle of rum near my fire, above me, to which they were welcome;
also some game, which they might take as a gift to their captain and
his crew.

This drew them like a magnet, and, as I lit my pipe, their boat scraped the sand, and, getting
out, they hauled her up and came towards me.

I met them, and, pointing towards my fire, as it might appear, led
them up behind the rocks, when, at a sign, my men sprang up, the
fellows were seized, and were forbidden to cry out on peril of their
lives.

I compelled them to tell what hands and what arms were left on board.
The sloop from which they came, and the schooner, its consort, were
bound for Gaspe, to bring provisions for several hundred Indians assembled
at Miramichi and Aristiguish, who were to go by these same vessels
to re-enforce the garrison of Quebec.

The sloop, they said, had six guns and a crew of twenty men; but the schooner, which was much
larger, had no arms save muskets, and a crew and guard of thirty men. In this country there
is no twilight, and with sunset came instantly the dusk. Already silence and dark inclosed the sloop.
I had the men bound to a tree, and gagged also, engaging to return and bring them away safe and
unhurt when our task was over.

I chose for pilot the boy, and presently, with great care, launching our patched shallop from
the stocks-- for the ship-boat was too small to carry six safely-- we got quietly away. Rowing
with silent stroke, we came alongside the sloop. No light burned save that in the binnacle,
and all hands, except the watch, were below at supper and at cards.
I could see the watch forward as we dropped silently alongside the
stern. My object was to catch this fellow as he came by. This I would
trust to no one but myself; for now, grown stronger, I had the old
spring in my blood, and I had also a good wish that my plans should
not go wrong through the bungling of others.

I motioned my men to sit silent, and then, when the fellow's back was toward me, coming softly
up the side, I slid over quietly, and drew into the shadow of a boat that
hung near.

He came on lazily, and when just past me I suddenly threw my arms about him, clapping my hand upon
his mouth. He was stoutly built, and he began at once to struggle.
He was no coward, and feeling for his knife, he drew it, and would have
had it in me but that I was quicker, and, with a desperate wrench,
my hand still over his mouth, half swung him round, and drove my dagger
home.

He sank in my arms with a heaving sigh, and I laid him down, still and dead, upon the deck.
Then I whispered up my comrades, the boy leading. As the last man
came over, his pistol, stuck in his belt, caught the ratlings of
the shrouds, and it dropped upon the deck.

This gave the alarm, but I was at the companion-door on the instant, as the first master came
bounding up, sword showing, and calling to his men, who swarmed after him. I fired; the bullet travelled
his spine, and he fell back stunned. A dozen others came on. Some reached the deck and grappled
with my men.

I never shall forget with what fiendish joy Clark fought that night-- those five terrible minutes.
He was like some mad devil, and by his imprecations I knew that he was avenging the brutal death of his
infant daughter some years before. He was armed with a long knife, and I saw four men fall beneath
it, while he himself got but one bad cut. Of the Provincials, one fell wounded, and the other brought
down his man. Mr. Stevens and myself held the companion-way, driving the crew back, not without hurt,
for my wrist was slashed by a cutlass, and Mr. Stevens had a bullet in his thigh. But presently
we had the joy of having those below cry quarter. We were masters
of the sloop.

Quickly battening down the prisoners, I had the sails spread, the windlass going, and the anchor
apeak quickly, and we soon were moving down upon the schooner, which
was now all confusion, commands ringing out on the quiet air.

But when, laying alongside, we gave her a dose, and then another, from all our swivels at once, sweeping
her decks, the timid fellows cried quarter, and we boarded her. With my men's muskets cocked, I
ordered her crew and soldiers below, till they were all, save two
lusty youths, stowed away.

Then I had everything of value brought from the sloop, together with the swivels, which we fastened
to the schooner's side; and when all was done, we set fire to the sloop,
and I stood and watched her burn with a proud-- too proud-- spirit.

Having brought our prisoners from the shore, we placed them with the rest below. At dawn I called
a council with Mr. Stevens and the others-- our one wounded Provincial
was not omitted-- and we all agreed that some of the prisoners should
be sent off in the long boat, and a portion of the rest be used to
work the ship.

So we had half the fellows up, and giving them fishing-lines, rum,
and provisions, with a couple of muskets and ammunition, we sent
them off to shift for themselves, and, raising anchor, got on our
way down the broad river, in perfect weather.

The days that followed are like a good dream to me, for we came on
all the way without challenge and with no adventure, even round Gaspe,
to Louisburg, thirty-eight days after my escape from the fortress.

XXIII WITH WOLFE AT MONTMORENCI At Louisburg we found that Admiral Saunders and General Wolfe were
gone to Quebec. They had passed us as we came down, for we had sailed inside some islands of
the coast, getting shelter and better passage, and the fleet had,
no doubt, passed outside. This was a blow to me, for I had hoped to
be in time to join General Wolfe and proceed with him to Quebec,
where my knowledge of the place should be of service to him.

It was, however, no time for lament, and I set about to find my way
back again. Our prisoners I handed over to the authorities.

The two Provincials decided to remain and take service under General Amherst; Mr. Stevens
would join his own Rangers at once, but Clark would go back with
me to have his hour with his hated foes. I paid Mr. Stevens and the
two Provincials for their shares in the schooner, and Clark and I
manned her afresh, and prepared to return instantly to Quebec.

From General Amherst I received correspondence to carry to General
Wolfe and Admiral Saunders.

Before I started back, I sent letters to Governor Dinwiddie and to
Mr. (now Colonel) George Washington, but I had no sooner done so than
I received others from them through General Amherst.

They had been sent to him to convey to General Wolfe at Quebec,
who was, in turn, to hand them to me, when, as was hoped, I should
be released from captivity, if not already beyond the power of men
to free me.

The letters from these friends almost atoned for my past sufferings,
and I was ashamed that ever I had thought my countrymen forgot me in
my worst misery; for this was the first matter I saw when I opened
the Governor's letter: By the House of Burgesses.

Resolved, That the sum of three hundred pounds be paid to Captain
Robert Moray, in consideration of his services to the country, and
his singular sufferings in his confinement, as a hostage, in Quebec.

This, I learned, was one of three such resolutions. But there were other matters in his letter
which much amazed me. An attempt, he said, had been made one dark night
upon his strong-room, which would have succeeded but for the great
bravery and loyalty of an old retainer.

Two men were engaged in the attempt, one of whom was a Frenchman.
Both men were masked, and, when set upon, fought with consummate
bravery, and escaped.

It was found the next day that the safe of my partner had also been rifled and all my papers stolen.
There was no doubt in my mind what this meant.

Doltaire, with some renegade Virginian who knew Williamsburg and myself, had made essay to get my papers.
But they had failed in their designs, for all my valuable documents--
and those desired by Doltaire among them-- remained safe in the Governor's
strong-room.

I got away again for Quebec five days after reaching Louisburg.

We came along with good winds, having no check, though twice we sighted French sloops, which,
however, seemed most concerned to leave us to ourselves. At last,
with colours flying, we sighted Kamaraska Isles, which I saluted, remembering
the Chevalier de la Darante; then Isle aux Coudres, below which we
poor fugitives came so near disaster.

Here we all felt new fervour, for the British flag flew from a staff on a lofty point, tents
were pitched thereon in a pretty cluster, and, rounding a point,
we came plump upon Admiral Durell's little fleet, which was here
to bar advance of French ships and to waylay stragglers.

On a blithe summer day we sighted, far off, the Island of Orleans and the tall masts of two patrol
ships of war, which in due time we passed, saluting, and ran abreast of the island in the North
Channel. Coming up this passage, I could see on an eminence, far distant, the tower of the Chateau
Alixe.

Presently there opened on our sight the great bluff at the Falls of Montmorenci, and, crowning it,
tents and batteries, the camp of General Wolfe himself, with the good
ship Centurion standing off like a sentinel at a point where the Basin,
the River Montmorenci, and the North Channel seem to meet. To our
left, across the shoals, was Major Hardy's post, on the extreme eastern
point of the Isle Orleans; and again beyond that, in a straight line,
Point Levis on the south shore, where Brigadier-General Monckton's
camp was pitched; and farther on his batteries, from which shell and
shot were poured into the town.

How all had changed in the two months since I left there! Around the Seigneur Duvarney's manor,
in the sweet village of Beauport, was encamped the French army, and redoubts and batteries were
ranged where Alixe and I and her brother Juste had many a time walked
in a sylvan quiet.

Here, as it were, round the bent and broken sides of a bowl, war raged, and the centre was like
some caldron out of which imps of ships sprang and sailed to hand up
fires of hell to the battalions on the ledges.

Here swung Admiral Saunders's and Admiral Holmes's divisions, out
of reach of the French batteries, yet able to menace and destroy,
and to feed the British camps with men and munitions.

There was no French ship in sight-- only two old hulks with guns
in the mouth of the St. Charles River, to protect the road to the
palace gate-- that is, at the Intendance.

It was all there before me, the investment of Quebec, for which I
had prayed and waited seven long years.

All at once, on a lull in the fighting which had lasted twenty-four
hours, the heavy batteries from the Levis shore opened upon the town,
emptying therein the fatal fuel.

Mixed feelings possessed me. I had at first listened to Clark's delighted imprecations and devilish
praises with a feeling of brag almost akin to his own-- that was the soldier and the Briton in
me. But all at once the man, the lover, and the husband spoke: my wife was in that beleaguered
town under that monstrous shower! She had said that she would never leave it till I came to fetch
her. For I knew well that our marriage must become known after I had escaped; that she would not,
for her own good pride and womanhood, keep it secret then; that it
would be proclaimed while yet Gabord and the excellent chaplain were
alive to attest all.

Summoned by the Centurion, we were passed on beyond the eastern point of the Isle of Orleans to the
admiral's ship, which lay in the channel off the point, with battleships
in front and rear, and a line of frigates curving towards the rocky
peninsula of Quebec.

Then came a line of buoys beyond these, with manned boats moored alongside
to protect the fleet from fire rafts, which once already the enemy
had unavailingly sent down to ruin and burn our fleet.

Admiral Saunders received me with great cordiality, thanked me for the dispatches, heard with
applause of my adventures with the convoy, and at once, with dry humour, said he would be glad, if
General Wolfe consented, to make my captured schooner one of his fleet.
Later, when her history and doings became known in the fleet, she
was at once called the Terror of France; for she did a wild thing
or two before Quebec fell, though from first to last she had but
her six swivel guns, which I had taken from the burnt sloop.

Clark had command of her. From Admiral Saunders I learned that Bigot
had recovered from his hurt, which had not been severe, and of the
death of Monsieur Cournal, who had ridden his horse over the cliff in
the dark.

From the Admiral I came to General Wolfe at Montmorenci.

I shall never forget my first look at my hero, my General, that flaming, exhaustless spirit, in
a body so gauche and so unshapely. When I was brought to him, he was
standing on a knoll alone, looking through a glass towards the batteries
of Levis.

The first thing that struck me, as he lowered the glass and leaned
against a gun, was the melancholy in the lines of his figure.

I never forget that, for it seemed to me even then that, whatever glory there was for British
arms ahead, there was tragedy for him. Yet, as he turned at the sound of our footsteps, I almost
laughed; for his straight red hair, his face defying all regularity,
with the nose thrust out like a wedge and the chin falling back from
an affectionate sort of mouth, his tall straggling frame and far from
athletic shoulders, challenged contrast with the compact, handsome,
graciously shaped Montcalm.

In Montcalm was all manner of things to charm-- all save that which presently filled me with awe,
and showed me wherein this sallow-featured, pain-racked Briton was
greater than his rival beyond measure: in that searching, burning
eye, which carried all the distinction and greatness denied him elsewhere.

There resolution, courage, endurance, deep design, clear vision, dogged
will, and heroism, lived: a bright furnace of daring resolves and
hopes, which gave England her sound desire.

An officer of his staff presented me. He looked at me with piercing intelligence, and then, presently, his
long hand made a swift motion of knowledge and greeting, and he said:
"Yes, yes, and you are welcome, Captain Moray.

I have heard of you, of much to your credit. You were for years in durance there." He pointed towards
the town, where we could see the dome of the cathedral shine, and
the leaping smoke and flame of the roaring batteries.

"Six years, your Excellency," said I. "Papers of yours fell into General Braddock's hands, and
they tried you for a spy-- a curious case-- a curious case! Wherein were they wrong and you justified,
and why was all exchange refused?" I told him the main, the bare facts, and how, to force certain
papers from me, I had been hounded to the edge of the grave. He nodded, and seemed lost in study of
the mud-flats at the Beauport shore, and presently took to beating
his foot upon the ground.

After a minute, as if he had come back from a distance, he said: "Yes,
yes, broken articles. Few women have a sense of national honour,
such as La Pompadour none! An interesting matter." Then, after a
moment: "You shall talk with our chief engineer; you know the town
you should be useful to me, Captain Moray.  The consciousness of this caused two or three men
to shuffle their feet a trifle upon the floor, as though they expected the death march soon
to begin.  The littlest waiter girl, unable to stand the nervous strain, tittered audibly,
which caused Nora, the head waiter, to glare at her through her glasses.  At length the door
opened, and two figures entered affrightedly, those of Hank Peterson, a neighbouring rancher,
and his wife.  Hank was dressed in the costume of the time, and the high heels of his boots
tapped uncertainly as he made his way over the wide hollow-sounding floor, his feet wabbling
and crossing in his trepidation.  None the less, having forthwith decoyed to the row of men
sitting silent against the wall, he duly reached that harbour and sank down, wiping his face
and passing his hand across his mouth uncertainly.  His wife was a tall, angular woman, whose
garb was like that of most of the other women--cotton print.  Yet her hair was combed to the
point of fatality, and at her neck she had a collarette of what might have been lace, but was
not.  Conscious of the inspection of all there assembled, Mrs. Peterson's conduct was different
from that of her spouse.  With head held very high and a glance of scorn, as of one hurling
back some uttered word of obloquy, she marched down the hall to the side occupied by the ladies;
nay, even passed the full line as in daring review, and seated herself at the farther end,
with head upright, as ready for instant sally of offence.

The door opened again and yet again.  Two or three engineers, a rodman, a leveller, and an
axeman came in, near behind them more cattlemen. From among the guests of the hotel several
came, and presently the clerk of the hotel himself.  The line of men grew steadily, but the
body upon the opposite side of the room remained constant, immobile, and unchanged.  At these
devoted beings there glared many eyes from across the room.  More and more frequent came the
scrape of a foot along the floor, or the brief cough of perturbation.  One or two very daring
young men leaned over and made some remark in privacy, behind the back of the hand, this followed
by a nudge and a knowing look, perhaps even by a snicker, the latter quickly suppressed.  Little
by little these bursts of courage had their effect.  Whispers became spasmodic, indeed even
frequent.

"Say, Curly," whispered Del Hickman hoarsely to his neighbour, "ef somethin' don't turn loose
right soon I'm due to die right here.  I'm thirstier'n if this here floor was the Staked Plains." 

Only a moment, in which one could feel, and see also, the French army praying, then came from the
ramparts the sharp inspiring roll of a drum, and presently all was still again. Nearer and nearer
the boat of prisoners approached the stone steps of the landing,
and we were several hundred yards behind.

I motioned to Doltaire to stop, but he made no sign. I saw the cloaked figures of the nuns near
him, and I strained my eyes, but I could not note their faces. My men worked on ardently,
and presently we gained. But I saw that it was impossible to reach them before they set foot
on shore. Now their boat came to the steps, and one by one they hastily got out. Then I called
twice to Doltaire to stop. The air was still, and my voice carried distinctly. Suddenly one of the
cloaked figures sprang towards the steps with arms outstretched, calling aloud, "Robert! Robert!"
After a moment, "Robert, my husband!" rang out again, and then a young officer and the other nun
took her by the arm to force her away.

At the sharp instigation of Doltaire, instantly some companies of
marines filed in upon the place where they had stood, leveled their
muskets on us, and hid my beloved wife from my view.

I recognized the young officer who had put a hand upon Alixe.

It was her brother Juste.

"Alixe! Alixe!" I called, as my boat still came on.

"Save me, Robert!" came the anguished reply, a faint but searching
sound, and then no more.

Misery and mystery were in my heart all at once. Doltaire had tricked me. "Those batteries can
not harm her now!" Yes, yes, they could not while she was a prisoner in our camp. "Done with
the world!" Truly, when wearing the garb of the Sister Angelique.

But why that garb? I swore that I would be within that town by the morrow, that I would fetch
my wife into safety, out from the damnable arts and devices of Master Devil Doltaire, as Gabord
had called him.

The captain of the marines called to us that another boat's length would fetch upon us the fire
of his men. There was nothing to do, but to turn back, while from
the shore I was reviled by soldiers and by the rabble.

My marriage with Alixe had been made a national matter-- of race and religion. So, as my men rowed
back towards our fleet, I faced my enemies, and looked towards them without moving. I was grim
enough that moment, God knows; I felt turned to stone. I did not stir when-- ineffaceable brutality-- the
batteries on the heights began to play upon us, the shot falling round us, and passing over
our heads, and musket-firing followed.

"Damned villains! Faithless brutes!" cried Kingdon beside me. I did not speak a word, but stood
there defiant, as when we first had turned back. Now, sharply, angrily, from all our batteries,
there came reply to the French; and as we came on with only one man wounded and one oar broken,
the whole fleet cheered us. I steered straight for the Terror of France, and there Clark and I,
he swearing violently, laid plans.

XXIV THE SACRED COUNTERSIGN That night, at nine o'clock, the Terror
of France, catching the flow of the tide, with one sail set and a
gentle wind, left the fleet, and came slowly up the river, under the
batteries of the town.

In the gloom we passed lazily on with the flow of the tide, unquestioned,
soon leaving the citadel behind, and ere long came softly to that
point called Anse du Foulon, above which Sillery stood.

The shore could not be seen distinctly, but I knew by a perfect instinct the cleft in the hillside
where was the path leading up the mountain. I bade Clark come up the river again two nights hence
to watch for my signal, which was there agreed upon. If I did not come, then, with General Wolfe's
consent, he must show the General this path up the mountain. He swore that all should be as I
wished; and indeed you would have thought that he and his Terror of France were to level Quebec
to the water's edge. I stole softly to the shore in a boat, which I drew up among the bushes, hiding
it as well as I could in the dark, and then, feeling for my pistols and my knife, I crept upwards, coming
presently to the passage in the mountain. I toiled on to the summit without a sound of alarm
from above. Pushing forward, a light flashed from the windmill, and
a man, and then two men, appeared in the open door. One of them was
Captain Lancy, whom I had very good reason to remember.

The last time I saw him was that famous morning when he would have had me shot five minutes before
the appointed hour, rather than endure the cold and be kept from his breakfast. I itched to call him
to account then and there, but that would have been foolish play. I was outside of the belt of
light falling from the door, and stealing round I came near to the
windmill on the town side.

I was not surprised to see such poor watch kept. Above the town, up to this time, the guard
was of a perfunctory sort, for the great cliffs were thought impregnable; and even if surmounted,
there was still the walled town to take, surrounded by the St. Lawrence,
the St. Charles, and these massive bulwarks.

Presently Lancy stepped out into the light, and said, with a hoarse laugh, "Blood of Peter,
it was a sight to-day! She has a constant fancy for the English filibuster.'Robert! my husband!'she
bleated like a pretty lamb, and Doltaire grinned at her." "But Doltaire will have her yet." "He
has her pinched like a mouse in a weasel's teeth." "My faith, mademoiselle has no sweet road
to travel since her mother died," was the careless reply. I almost cried out. Here was a blow which
staggered me. Her mother dead!

Presently the scoffer continued: "The Duvarneys would remain in the city, and on that very
night, as they sit at dinner, a shell disturbs them, a splinter strikes Madame, and two days after
she is carried to her grave." They linked arms and walked on.

It was a dangerous business I was set on, for I was sure that I would
be hung without shrift if captured.

As it proved afterwards, I had been proclaimed, and it was enjoined
on all Frenchmen and true Catholics to kill me if the chance showed.

Only two things could I depend on: Voban and my disguise, which was very good. From the Terror
of France I had got a peasant's dress, and by rubbing my hands and
face with the stain of butternut, cutting again my new-grown beard,
and wearing a wig, I was well guarded against discovery.

How to get into the city was the question.

By the St. Charles River and the Palace Gate, and by the St. Louis Gate, not far from the
citadel, were the only ways, and both were difficult. I had, however, two or three plans, and these
I chewed as I went across Maitre Abraham's fields, and came to the
main road from Sillery to the town.

Soon I heard the noise of clattering hoofs, and jointly with this
I saw a figure rise up not far ahead of me, as if waiting for the
coming horseman.

I drew back. The horseman passed me, and, as he came on slowly, I saw
the figure spring suddenly from the roadside and make a stroke at
the horseman.

In a moment they were a rolling mass upon the ground, while the horse trotted down the road a
little, and stood still.

I never knew the cause of that encounter-- robbery, or private hate, or paid assault; but there was
scarcely a sound as the two men struggled. Presently, there was groaning, and both lay still. I hurried
to them, and found one dead, and the other dying, and dagger wounds
in both, for the assault had been at such close quarters that the
horseman had had no chance to use a pistol.

My
plans were changed on the instant.

I drew the military coat, boots, and cap off the horseman, and put them on myself; and thrusting my
hand into his waistcoat-- for he looked like a courier-- I found a packet. This I put into my
pocket, and then, making for the horse which stood quiet in the road, I mounted it and rode on
towards the town.

Striking a light, I found that the packet was addressed to the Governor. A serious thought disturbed
me: I could not get into the town through the gates without the countersign. I rode on, anxious
and perplexed. Presently a thought pulled me up. The courier was insensible when I left him, and
he was the only one who could help me in this. I greatly reproached myself
for leaving him while he was still alive.

"Poor devil," thought I to myself, "there is some one whom his death will hurt. He must not die
alone. He was no enemy of mine." I went back, and, getting from the horse, stooped to him, lifted
up his head, and found that he was not dead. I spoke in his ear. He moaned, and his eyes opened.
"What is your name?" said I. "Jean-- Labrouk," he whispered. Now
I remembered him.

He
was the soldier whom Gabord had sent as messenger to Voban the night
I was first taken to the citadel.

"Shall I carry word for you to any one?" asked I. There was a slight pause; then he said, "Tell
my-- Babette-- Jacques Dobrotte owes me ten francs-- and-- a leg-- of mutton. Tell-- my Babette--
to give my coat of beaver fur to Gabord the soldier. Tell"... he sank back, but raised himself,
and continued: "Tell my Babette I weep with her.... Ah, mon grand homme de Calvaire-- bon soir!"
He sank back again, but I roused him with one question more, vital to me. I must have the countersign. "Labrouk!
Labrouk!" said I sharply.

He opened his dull, glazed eyes. "Qui va la?" said I, and I waited
anxiously.

Thought seemed to rally in him, and, staring-- alas! how helpless and how sad: that look of a man brought
back for an instant from the Shadows!-- his lips moved. "France," was the whispered reply. "Advance
and give the countersign!" I urged. "Jesu--" he murmured faintly. I drew from my breast the
cross that Mathilde had given me, and pressed it to his lips.

He sighed softly, lifted his hand to it, and then fell back, never
to speak again.

After covering his face and decently laying the body out, I mounted
the horse again.

Glancing up, I saw that this bad business had befallen not twenty feet from a high Calvary at
the roadside. I was in a painful quandary.

Did Labrouk mean that the countersign was "Jesu," or was that word
the broken prayer of his soul as it hurried forth?

So strange a countersign I had never heard, and yet it might be used in this Catholic country. This day
might be some great feast of the Church-- possibly that of the naming of Christ (which was the case,
as I afterwards knew). I rode on, tossed about in my mind. So much hung on this. If I could not
give the countersign, I should have to fight my way back again the
road I came. But I must try my luck.

So I went on, beating up my heart to confidence; and now I came to
the St. Louis Gate.

A tiny fire was burning near, and two sentinels stepped forward as
I rode boldly on the entrance.

"Qui va la?" was the sharp call.

"France," was my reply, in a voice as like the peasant's as possible.

"Advance and give the countersign," came the demand. Another voice called from the darkness
of the wall: "Come and drink, comrade; I've a brother with Bougainville."

"Jesu," said I to the sentinel, answering his demand for the countersign,
and I spurred on my horse idly, though my heart was thumping hard,
for there were several sturdy fellows lying beyond the dull handful
of fire.

Instantly the sentinel's hand came to my bridle-rein.

"Halt!" roared he. Surely some good spirit was with me then to prompt me, for, with a careless laugh,
as though I had not before finished the countersign, "Christ," I added-- "Jesu Christ!" With
an oath the soldier let go the bridle-rein, the other opened the
gates, and I passed through.

I heard the first fellow swearing roundly to the others that he would
"send yon courier to fires of hell, if he played with him again so."

The gates closed behind me, and I was in the town which had seen the worst days and best moments
of my life.

I rode along at a trot, and once again beyond the citadel was summoned by a sentinel. Safely passed
on, I came down towards the Chateau St. Louis. I rode boldly up to the great entrance door, and
handed the packet to the sentinel. "From whom?" he asked. "Look in the corner," said I. "And what business is't
of yours?" "There is no word in the corner," answered he doggedly. "Is't from Monsieur le General
at Cap Rouge?" "Bah! Did you think it was from an English wolf?" I asked. His dull face broke
a little. "Is Jean Labrouk with Bougainville yet?"

"He's done with Bougainville; he's dead," I answered. "Dead! dead!" said he, a sort of grin playing
on his face. I made a shot at a venture.

"But you're to pay his wife Babette the ten francs and the leg of
mutton in twenty-four hours, or his ghost will follow you.

Swallow that, pudding-head!

And see you pay it, or every man in our company swears to break a
score of shingles on your bare back."

"I'll pay, I'll pay," he said, and he took to trembling. "Where shall
I find Babette?" asked I. "I come from Isle aux Coudres; I know not
this rambling town."

"A little
house hugging the cathedral rear," he explained. "Babette sweeps
out the vestry, and fetches water for the priests." "Good," said I.
"Take that to the Governor at once, and send the corporal of the guard
to have this horse fed and cared for, and he's to carry back the
Governor's messenger.

I've further business for the General in the town. And tell your captain
of the guard to send and pick up two dead men in the highway, just
against the first Calvary beyond the town."

He did my bidding, and I dismounted, and was about to get away,
when I saw the Chevalier de la Darante and the Intendant appear at the
door. They paused upon the steps.

The Chevalier was speaking most
earnestly: "To a nunnery-- a piteous shame! it should not be, your
Excellency." "To decline upon Monsieur Doltaire, then?" asked Bigot,
with a sneer. "Your Excellency believes in no woman," responded the
Chevalier stiffly.

"Ah
yes, in one!" was the cynical reply. "Is it possible? And she remains
a friend of your Excellency?" came back in irony. "The very best;
she finds me unendurable." "Philosophy shirks the solving of that
problem, your Excellency," was the cold reply. "No, it is easy. The
woman to be trusted is she who never trusts."

"The
paragon-- or prodigy-- who is she?"

"Even Madame Jamond." "She danced for you once,
your Excellency, they tell me."

"She was a devil that night; she drove us mad." So Doltaire
had not given up the secret of that affair!

There was silence for
a moment, and then the Chevalier said, "Her father will not let her
go to a nunnery-- no, no. Why should he yield to the Church in this?"

Bigot shrugged a shoulder. "Not
even to hide-- shame?"

"Liar-- ruffian!" said I through
my teeth.

The Chevalier answered for me: "I would stake
my life on her truth and purity."

"You forget the mock marriage, dear Chevalier." "It was
after the manner of his creed and people." "It was after a manner
we all have used at times." "Speak for yourself, your Excellency,"
was the austere reply. Nevertheless, I could see that the Chevalier
was much troubled.

"She forgot race, religion, people--
all, to spend still hours with a foreign spy in prison," urged Bigot,
with damnable point and suggestion.

"Hush, sir!" said the Chevalier. "She is a girl
once much beloved and ever admired among us.

Let not your
rancour against the man be spent upon the maid. Nay, more, why should
you hate the man so?

It is said, your Excellency,
that this Moray did not fire the shot that wounded you, but one who
has less reason to love you." Bigot smiled wickedly, but said nothing. The
Chevalier laid a hand on Bigot's arm. "Will you not oppose the Governor
and the bishop? Her fate is sad enough." "I will not lift a finger.
There are weightier matters.

Let
Doltaire, the idler, the Don Amato, the hunter of that fawn, save
her from the holy ambush.

The occupants of the wagons which trailed off across the prairies, the horsemen who followed
them, the citizens who adjourned and went as usual to the Cottage--all these departed with
the more or less recognised feeling that there had happened a vague something which had given
Ellisville a new dignity, which had attached to her a new significance.  Really this was Magna
Charta.  All those who, tired and sleepy, yet cheerful with the vitality of beef and air, were
going home upon the morning following the ball, knew in their souls that something had been
done.  Each might have told you in his way that a new web of human interests and human antagonisms
was now laid out upon the loom. Rapid enough was to be the weaving, and Ellisville was early
enough to become acquainted with the joys and sorrows, the strivings and the failures, the
happinesses and bitternesses of organized humanity.

There are those who sneer at the communities of the West, and who classify all things rural
as crude and unworthy, entitled only to tolerance, if they be spared contempt.  They are but
provincials themselves who are guilty of such attitude, and they proclaim only an ignorance
which itself is not entitled to the dignity of being called intolerance.  The city is no better
than the town, the town is no better than the country, and indeed one is but little different
from the other.  Everywhere the problems are the same.  Everywhere it is Life which is to be
seen, which is to be lived, which is to be endured, to be enjoyed.  Perhaps the men and women
of Ellisville did not phrase it thus, but surely they felt the strong current which warmed
their veins, which gave them hope and belief and self-trust, worth full as much, let us say,
as the planted and watered life of those who sometimes live on the earnings of those who have
died before them, or on the labour of those who are enslaved to them.

Ellisville, after the first ball, was by all the rules of the Plains admittedly a town.  A
sun had set, and a sun had arisen.  It was another day.

In the mind of Edward Franklin, when he was but a boy, there came often problems upon which
he pondered with all the melancholy seriousness of youth, and as he grew to young manhood he
found always more problems to engage his thoughts, to challenge his imagination.  They told
the boy that this earth was but a part of a grand scheme, a dot among the myriad stars.  He
was not satisfied, but asked always where was the Edge.  No recurrent quotient would do for
him; he demanded that the figures be conclusive.  They told him of the positive and negative
poles, and he wished to see the adjoining lines of the two hemispheres of force.  Carrying
his questionings into youth and manhood, they told him--men and women told him, the birds told
him, the flowers told him--that there were marrying and giving in marriage, that there was
Love.  He studied upon this and looked about him, discovering a world indeed divided into two
hemispheres, always about to be joined since ever time began.  But it seemed to him that this
union must never be that of mere chance.  There could be but one way right and fit for the
meeting of the two halves of life.  He looked about him in the little village where he was
brought up, and found that the men had married the women who were there for them to marry.
They had never sailed across seas, had never searched the stars, had never questioned their
own souls, asking, "Is this, then, the Other of me?"  Seeing that this was the way of human
beings, he was ashamed.  It aroused him to hear of this man or that who, having attained a
certain number of cattle or a given amount of household goods, conceived himself now ready
to marry, and who therefore made court to the neighbour's daughter, and who forthwith did marry
her. When at last they reached the other side, the owl's wife untied the line from the frog's
mouth and told him he might rest and play by the lake till they got back from the forest. Then
she and her sister and the boy walked on, with the great forest looming before them. But they
had by this time come far and were very tired, and felt glad enough to see some smoke curling
up from a little hut in front of them.'Let us go in and ask for some
water,'said the eagle's wife; and in they went.

The inside of the hut was so dark that at first they could see nothing
at all; but presently they heard a feeble croak from one corner.

But sisters turned to look, and there, tied by wings and feet, and their eyes sunken, were the husbands
that they sought. Quick as lightning the wives cut the deer-thongs which bound them; but the poor
birds were too weak from pain and starvation to do more than utter soft sounds of joy. Hardly, however,
were they set free, than a voice of thunder made the two sisters jump, while the little boy
clung tightly round his mother's neck.'What are you doing in my house?'cried she. And the wives
answered boldly that now they had found their husbands they meant
to save them from such a wicked witch.'Well, I will give you your
chance,'answered the ogress, with a hideous grin;'we will see if you
can slide down this mountain.

If you
can reach the bottom of the cavern, you shall have your husbands back again.'And as she spoke
she pushed them before her out of the door to the edge of a precipice,
which went straight down several hundreds of feet.

Unseen by the witch, the frog's mother fastened one end of the magic line about her, and whispered
to the little boy to hold fast the other. She had scarcely done so when the witch turned round.'You
don't seem to like your bargain,'said she; but the girl answered:'Oh, yes, I am quite ready.
I was only waiting for you!'And sitting down she began her slide. On, on, she went, down to such a
depth that even the witch's eyes could not follow her; but she took for granted that the woman was
dead, and told the sister to take her place.

At that instant, however, the head of the elder appeared above the
rock, brought upwards by the magic line.

The witch gave a howl of disgust, and hid her face in her hands; thus giving the younger sister
time to fasten the cord to her waist before the ogress looked up.'You can't expect such luck
twice,'she said; and the girl sat down and slid over the edge. But in a few minutes she too was back
again, and the witch saw that she had failed, and feared lest her power was going. Trembling with
rage though she was, she dared not show it, and only laughed hideously.'I
sha'n't let my prisoners go as easily as all that!'she said.'Make my
hair grow as thick and as black as yours, or else your husbands shall
never see daylight again.'' That is quite simple,'replied the elder
sister;'only you must do as we did-- and perhaps you won't like the
treatment.'' If you can bear it, of course I can,'answered the witch.

And so the girls told her they had first smeared their heads with pitch and then laid hot stones
upon them.'It is very painful,'said they,'but there is no other way
that we know of.

And in order to make sure that all will go right, one of us will hold
you down while the other pours on the pitch.'And so they did; and
the elder sister let down her hair till it hung over the witch's eyes,
so that she might believe it was her own hair growing.

Then the other brought a huge stone, and, in short, there was an end of the witch. The sisters were
savages who had never seen a missionary. So when the sisters saw
that she was dead they went to the hut, and nursed their husbands
till they grew strong.

Then they picked up the frog, and all went to make another
home on the other side of the great lake.

The
Frog and the Lion Fairy [From the Journal of the Anthropological
Institute.] Once upon a time there lived a king who was always at
war with his neighbours, which was very strange, as he was a good
and kind man, quite content with his own country, and not wanting
to seize land belonging to other people.

Perhaps he may have tried too much to please everybody, and that often ends in pleasing nobody; but,
at any rate, he found himself, at the end of a hard struggle, defeated
in battle, and obliged to fall back behind the walls of his capital
city.

Once there, he began to make preparations for a long siege, and the
first thing he did was to plan how best to send his wife to a place
of security.

The queen, who loved her husband dearly, would gladly have remained with him to share his dangers,
but he would not allow it.

So they parted, with many tears, and the queen set out with a strong guard to a fortified castle
on the outskirts of a great forest, some two hundred miles distant.

She cried nearly all the way, and when she arrived she cried still more, for everything in the
castle was dusty and old, and outside there was only a gravelled
courtyard, and the king had forbidden her to go beyond the walls without
at least two soldiers to take care of her.

Now the queen had only been married a few months, and in her own home she had been used to walk
and ride all over the hills without any attendants at all; so she felt very dull at her being
shut up in this way.

However, she bore it for a long while because it was the king's wish,
but when time passed and there were no signs of the war drifting in
the direction of the castle, she grew bolder, and sometimes strayed
outside the walls, in the direction of the forest.

Then came a dreadful period, when news from the king ceased entirely.'He
must surely be ill or dead,'thought the poor girl, who even now was
only sixteen.'I can bear it no longer, and if I do not get a letter
from him soon I shall leave this horrible place and go back to see
what is the matter.

Oh! I do wish I had never come away!'So, without telling anyone what
she intended to do, she ordered a little low carriage to be built,
something like a sledge, only it was on two wheels-- just big enough
to hold one person.'I am tired of being always in the castle,'she
said to her attendants;'and I mean to hunt a little.

Quite close by, of course,'she added, seeing the anxious look on their faces.'And there is no reason
that you should not hunt too.'All the faces brightened at that, for, to tell the truth, they
were nearly as dull as their mistress; so the queen had her way, and two beautiful horses were brought
from the stable to draw the little chariot. At first the queen took care to keep near the rest
of the hunt, but gradually she stayed away longer and longer, and
at last, one morning, she took advantage of the appearance of a wild
boar, after which her whole court instantly galloped, to turn into
a path in the opposite direction.

Unluckily, it did not happen to lead towards the king's palace, where she intended to go, but she
was so afraid her flight would be noticed that she whipped up her horses till they ran away. When
she understood what was happening the poor young queen was terribly frightened, and, dropping the
reins, clung to the side of the chariot. The horses, thus left without
any control, dashed blindly against a tree, and the queen was flung
out on the ground, where she lay for some minutes unconscious. A rustling
sound near her at length caused her to open her eyes; before her
stood a huge woman, almost a giantess, without any clothes save a
lion's skin, which was thrown over her shoulders, while a dried snake's
skin was plaited into her hair.

In one hand she held a club on which she leaned, and in the other a quiver full of arrows. At the sight
of this strange figure the queen thought she must be dead, and gazing
on an inhabitant of another world.

So she murmured softly to herself:'I am not surprised that people are
so loth to die when they know that they will see such horrible creatures.'But,
low as she spoke, the giantess caught the words, and began to laugh.'Oh,
don't be afraid; you are still alive, and perhaps, after all, you
may be sorry for it.

I am the Lion Fairy, and you are going to spend the rest of your
days with me in my palace, which is quite near this.

So come along.'But the queen shrank back in horror.'Oh, Madam Lion,
take me back, I pray you, to my castle; and fix what ransom you like,
for my husband will pay it, whatever it is.

But the giantess shook her head.'I am rich enough already,'she answered,'but I am often dull, and
I think you may amuse me a little.'And, so saying, she changed her
shape into that of a lion, and throwing the queen across her back,
she went down the ten thousand steps that led to her palace.

The lion had reached the centre of the earth before she stopped in
front of a house, lighted with lamps, and built on the edge of a lake
of quicksilver.

In this lake various huge monsters might be seen playing or fighting-- the queen did not know which--
and around flew rooks and ravens, uttering dismal croaks.

In the distance was a mountain down whose sides waters slowly coursed-- these were the tears
of unhappy lovers-- and nearer the gate were trees without either fruit of flowers, while nettles
and brambles covered the ground.

If the castle had been gloomy, what did the queen feel about this? For some days the queen was so much
shaken by all she had gone through that she lay with her eyes closed, unable either to move
or speak.

When she got better, the Lion Fairy told her that if she liked she could build herself a cabin,
as she would have to spend her life in that place. At these words the queen burst into tears, and
implored her gaoler to put her to death rather than condemn her to
such a life; but the Lion Fairy only laughed, and counselled her to
try to make herself pleasant, as many worse things might befall her.'Is
there no way in which I can touch your heart?'asked the poor girl
in despair.'Well, if you really wish to please me you will make me
a pasty out of the stings of bees, and be sure it is good.'' But
I don't see any bees,'answered the queen, looking round.'Oh, no, there
aren't any,'replied her tormentor;'but you will have to find them
all the same.'And, so saying, she went away.'After all, what does
it matter?'thought the queen to herself,'I have only one life, and
I can but lose it.'And not caring what she did, she left the palace
and seating herself under a yew tree, poured out all her grief.'Oh,
my dear husband,'wept she,'what will you think when you come to the
castle to fetch me and find me gone?

Rather a thousand
times that you should fancy me dead than imagine that I had forgotten you! Ah, how fortunate
that the broken chariot should be lying in the wood, for then you
may grieve for me as one devoured by wild beasts.

And if another should take my place in your heart-- Well, at least I shall never know it.'She might
have continued for long in this fashion had not the voice of a crow directly overhead attracted
her attention. Looking up to see what was the matter she beheld, in
the dim light, a crow holding a fat frog in his claws, which he evidently
intended for his supper.

The queen rose hastily from the seat, and striking the bird sharply on the claws with the fan which
hung from her side, she forced him to drop the frog, which fell to the round more dead than alive.
The crow, furious at his disappointment, flew angrily away.

As soon as the frog had recovered her senses she hopped up to the
queen, who was still sitting under the yew.

Standing on her hind legs, and bowing low before her, she said gently:'Beautiful lady, by what mischance
do you come here?

You are the only creature that I have seen do a kind deed since a fatal curiosity lured me to this
place.'' What sort of a frog can you be that knows the language of
mortals?'asked the queen in her turn.'But if you do, tell me, I pray,
if I alone am a captive, for hitherto I have beheld no one but the
monsters of the lake.'' Once upon a time they were men and women like
yourself,'answered the frog,'but having power in their hands, they
used it for their own pleasure.

Therefore fate has sent them here for a while to bear the punishment of their misdoings.'' But
you, friend frog, you are not one of these wicked people, I am sure?'asked the queen.'I am half
a fairy,'replied the frog;'but, although I have certain magic gifts,
I am not able to do all I wish.

And if the Lion Fairy were to know of my presence in her kingdom she
would hasten to kill me.'' But if you are a fairy, how was it that
you were so nearly slain by the crow?'said the queen, wrinkling her
forehead.'Because the secret of my power lies in my little cap that
is made of rose leaves; but I had laid it aside for the moment, when
that horrible crow pounced upon me.

Once it is on my head I fear nothing.

But let me repeat; had it not been for you I could not have escaped death, and if I can do anything
to help you, or soften your hard fate, you have only to tell me.'' Alas,'sighed the queen,'I
have been commanded by the Lion Fairy to make her a pasty out of the stings of bees, and,
as far as I can discover, there are none here; as how should there be, seeing there are no
flowers for them to feed on? And, even if there were, how could I catch them?'' Leave it to
me,'said the frog,'I will manage it for you.'And, uttering a strange noise, she struck the ground
thrice with her foot. In an instant six thousand frogs appeared before her, one of them bearing
a little cap.'Cover yourselves with honey, and hop round by the
beehives,'commanded the frog, putting on the cap which her friend was
holding in her mouth.

And turning to the queen, he added:'The Lion Fairy keeps a store
of bees in a secret place near to the bottom of the ten thousand steps
leading into the upper world.

Not that she wants them for herself, but they are sometimes useful to
her in punishing her victims.

However, this time we will get the better of her.'Just as she had
finished speaking the six thousand frogs returned, looking so strange
with bees sticking to every part of them that, sad as she felt, the
poor queen could not help laughing.

The bees were all so stupefied with what they had eaten that it was possible to draw their stings
without hunting them. So, with the help of her friend, the queen
soon made ready her pasty and carried it to the Lion Fairy.'Not enough
pepper,'said the giantess, gulping down large morsels, in order the
hide the surprise she felt.'Well, you have escaped this time, and
I am glad to find I have got a companion a little more intelligent
than the others I have tried.

Now, you had better go and build yourself a house.'So the queen wandered
away, and picking up a small axe which lay near the door she began
with the help of her friend the frog to cut down some cypress trees
for the purpose.

And not content with that the six thousand froggy servants were told
to help also, and it was not long before they had built the prettiest
little cabin in the world, and made a bed in one corner of dried ferns
which they fetched from the top of the ten thousand steps.

It looked soft and
comfortable, and the queen was very glad to lie down upon it, so
tired was she with all that had happened since the morning.

Scarcely, however, had she fallen asleep when the lake monsters began to make the most horrible noises
just outside, while a small dragon crept in and terrified her so
that she ran away, which was just what the dragon wanted!

The poor queen crouched under a rock for the rest of the night, and
the next morning, when she woke from her troubled dreams, she was cheered
at seeing the frog watching by her.'I hear we shall have to build you
another palace,'said she.'Well, this time we won't go so near the
lake.'And she smiled with her funny wide mouth, till the queen took
heart, and they went together to find wood for the new cabin.

The tiny palace was soon ready, and a fresh bed made of wild thyme,
which smelt delicious.

Neither the queen nor the frog said anything about it, but somehow, as always happens, the story
came to the ears of the Lion Fairy, and she sent a raven to fetch the culprit.'What gods or men
are protecting you?'she asked, with a frown.'This earth, dried up by a constant rain of sulphur
and fire, produces nothing, yet I hear that YOUR bed is made of sweet
smelling herbs.  Small corrals raised their ragged arms.  Each man claimed
his herd of kine. Slowly, swinging up from the far Southwest, whose settlement, slower and
still more crude, had gone on scores of years ago when the Spaniards and the horse Indians
of the lower plains were finally beaten back from the rancherias, there came on the great herds
of the gaunt, broad-horned cattle, footsore and slow and weary with their march of more than
a thousand miles.  These vast herds deployed in turn about the town of Ellisville, the Mecca
for which they had made this unprecedented pilgrimage.  They trampled down every incipient
field, and spread abroad over all the grazing lands, until every township held its thousands,
crowded by the new thousands continually coming on. And the jackal called out:'Ho!

You diggers, tell me: Who was it you heard singing over the work?'' Why,
it was you, of course, jackal!

You sang so loud that the whole world might have heard you!'' And
who it is that sings-- he who draws the water, or he who empties it?'' Why,
certainly he who draws the water!'' You hear?'said the jackal, turning
to the sheep.'Now come and carry away your own portion, or else I
shall take it for myself.'' You have got the better of me,'answered
the sheep;'and I suppose I must confess myself beaten!

But
as I bear no malice, go and eat some of the dates that I have brought
in that sack.'And the jackal, who loved dates, ran instantly back,
and tore open the mouth of the sack.

But just as he was about to plunge his nose in he saw two brown eyes
calmly looking at him.

In an instant he had let fall the flap of the sack and bounded back to where the sheep was standing.'I
was only in fun; and you have brought my uncle the greyhound.

Take away the sack, we will make the division over again.'And he began rearranging the heaps.'One,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, for my mother the sheep, and one for the jackal,'counted
he; casting timid glances all the while at the sack.'Now you can take your share and go,'said
the sheep. And the jackal did not need twice telling! Whenever the sheep looked up, she still saw
him flying, flying across the plain; and, for all I know, he may
be flying across it still.

The Three Treasures of the Giants [Contes Berberes, par Rene Basset.] Long, long ago, there
lived an old man and his wife who had three sons; the eldest was
called Martin, the second Michael, while the third was named Jack.

One evening they were all seated round the table, eating their supper of bread and milk.'Martin,'said
the old man suddenly,'I feel that I cannot live much longer.

You, as the eldest, will inherit this hut; but, if you value my blessing, be good to your mother
and brothers.'' Certainly, father; how can you suppose I should do them wrong?'replied Martin
indignantly, helping himself to all the best bits in the dish as
he spoke.

The old man saw nothing, but Michael looked on in surprise, and Jack
was so astonished that he quite forgot to eat his own supper.

A little while after, the father fell ill, and sent for his sons,
who were out hunting, to bid him farewell.

After giving good advice to the two eldest, he turned to Jack.'My boy,'he said,'you have not got quite
as much sense as other people, but if Heaven has deprived you of
some of your wits, it was given you a kind heart.

Always listen to what it says, and take heed to the words of your
mother and brothers, as well as you are able!'So saying the old man
sank back on his pillows and died.

The cries of grief uttered by Martin and Michael sounded through the house, but Jack remained by
the bedside of his father, still and silent, as if he were dead also. At length he got up,
and going into the garden, hid himself in some trees, and wept like
a child, while his two brothers made ready for the funeral. No sooner
was the old man buried than Martin and Michael agreed that they would
go into the world together to seek their fortunes, while Jack stayed
at home with their mother.

Jack would have liked nothing better than to sit
and dream by the fire, but the mother, who was very old herself, declared
that there was no work for him to do, and that he must seek it with
his brothers.  The resident one third was
the nucleus of the real Ellisville that was to be.  The social compact was still in embryo.
Life was very simple.  It was the day of the individual, the day before the law.

With this rude setting there was to be enacted a rapid drama of material progress such as the
world has never elsewhere seen; but first there must be played the wild prologue of the West,
never at any time to have a more lurid scene than here at the Halfway House of a continent,
at the intersection of the grand transcontinental trails, the bloody angle of the plains. 
Eight men in a day, a score in a week, met death by violence.  The street in the cemetery doubled
before that of the town.  There were more graves than houses.  This superbly wasteful day,
how could it presage that which was to come?  In this riotous army of invasion, who could have
foreseen the population which was to follow, adventurous yet tenacious, resolved first upon
independence, and next upon knowledge, and then upon the fruits of knowledge?  Nay, perhaps,
after all, the prescience of this coming time lay over Ellisville the Red, so that it roared
the more tempestuously on through its brief, brazen day.

CHAPTER XVIII

STILL A REBEL

In the swift current of humanity then streaming up and down the cattle range, the reputation
of the Halfway House was carried far and near; and for fifty miles east and west, for five
hundred miles north and south, the beauty of the girl at the Halfway House was matter of general
story.  This was a new sort of being, this stranger from another land, and when applied to
her, all the standards of the time fell short or wide.  About her there grew a saga of the
cow range, and she was spoken of with awe from the Brazos to the Blue. He took the path leading
to the door of the hut, but stopped on feeling a hand laid on his
shoulder.'Young man,'said the ogre (for such was the stranger),'you
have been a good son, and you deserve the piece of luck which has
befallen you this day.

Come with me to that shining lake yonder, and fear nothing.'Wondering a little at what might be going
to happen to him, the youth did as the ogre bade him, and when they reached the shore of the lake,
the ogre turned and said to him:'Step into the water and shut your
eyes!

You will find yourself sinking slowly to the bottom; but take courage, all will go well. Only bring
up as much silver as you can carry, and we will divide it between
us.'So the young man stepped bravely into the lake, and felt himself
sinking, sinking, till he reached firm ground at last.

In front of him lay four heaps of silver, and in the midst of them a curious white shining stone,
marked over with strange characters, such as he had never seen before. He picked it up in order
to examine it more closely, and as he held it the stone spoke.'As
long as you hold me, all your wishes will come true,'it said.'But
hide me in your turban, and then call to the ogre that you are ready
to come up.'In a few minutes the young man stood again by the shores
of the lake.'Well, where is the silver?'asked the ogre, who was awaiting
him.'Ah, my father, how can I tell you!

So bewildered was I, and so dazzled with the splendours of everything I saw, that I stood like a statue,
unable to move. Then hearing steps approaching I got frightened, and called to you, as you know.'' You
are no better than the rest,'cried the ogre, and turned away in a rage. When he was out of
sight the young man took the stone from his turban and looked at
it.'I want the finest camel that can be found, and the most splendid
garments,'said he.'Shut your eyes then,'replied the stone.

And he shut them; and when he opened them again the camel that he
had wished for was standing before him, while the festal robes of
a desert prince hung from his shoulders.

Mounting the camel, he whistled the falcon to his wrist, and, followed
by his greyhound and his cat, he started homewards.

His mother was sewing at her door when this magnificent stranger
rode up, and, filled with surprise, she bowed low before him.'Don't
you know me, mother?'he said with a laugh.

And on hearing his voice the good woman nearly fell to the ground
with astonishment.'How have you got that camel and those clothes?'asked
she.'Can a son of mine have committed murder in order to possess them?'' Do
not be afraid; they are quite honestly come by,'answered the youth.'I
will explain all by-and-by; but now you must go to the palace and
tell the king I wish to marry his daughter.'At these words the mother
thought her son had certainly gone mad, and stared blankly at him.

The young man guessed what was in her heart, and replied with a smile:'Fear
nothing.

Promise all that he asks; it will be fulfilled somehow.'So she went to the palace, where she found
the king sitting in the Hall of Justice listening to the petitions
of his people.

The woman waited until all had been heard and the hall was empty,
and then went up and knelt before the throne.'My son has sent me to
ask for the hand of the princess,'said she.

The king looked at her and thought that she was mad; but, instead
of ordering his guards to turn her out, he answered gravely:'Before
he can marry the princess he must build me a palace of ice, which
can be warmed with fires, and wherein the rarest singing-birds can
live!'' It shall be done, your Majesty,'said she, and got up and left
the hall.

Her son was anxiously awaiting her outside the palace gates, dressed
in the clothes that he wore every day.'Well, what have I got to do?'he
asked impatiently, drawing his mother aside so that no one could overhear
them.'Oh, something quite impossible; and I hope you will put the
princess out of your head,'she replied.'Well, but what is it?'persisted
he.'Nothing but to build a palace of ice wherein fires can burn that
shall keep it so warm that the most delicate singing-birds can live
in it!'' I thought it would be something much harder than that,'exclaimed
the young man.'I will see about it at once.'And leaving his mother,
he went into the country and took the stone from his turban.'I want
a palace of ice that can be warmed with fires and filled with the
rarest singing-birds!'' Shut your eyes, then,'said the stone; and he
shut them, and when he opened them again there was the palace, more
beautiful than anything he could have imagined, the fires throwing
a soft pink glow over the ice.'It is fit even for the princess,'thought
he to himself.

As soon as the king awoke next morning he ran to the window, and
there across the plain he beheld the palace.'That young man must be
a great wizard; he may be useful to me.'And when the mother came again
to tell him that his orders had been fulfilled he received her with
great honour, and bade her tell her son that the wedding was fixed
for the following day.

The princess was delighted with her new home, and with her husband
also; and several days slipped happily by, spent in turning over all
the beautiful things that the palace contained.

But at length the young man grew tired of always staying inside walls, and he told his wife that
the next day he must leave her for a few hours, and go out hunting.'You
will not mind?'he asked.

And she answered as became a good wife:'Yes, of course I shall mind; but
I will spend the day in planning out some new dresses; and then it
will be so delightful when you come back, you know!'So the husband
went off to hunt, with the falcon on his wrist, and the greyhound
and the cat behind him-- for the palace was so warm that even the
cat did not mind living in it.

No sooner had he gone, than the ogre who had been watching his chance for many days, knocked at the
door of the palace.'I have just returned from a far country,'he said,'and
I have some of the largest and most brilliant stones in the world
with me.

The princess is known to love beautiful things, perhaps she might like to buy some?'Now the
princess had been wondering for many days what trimming she should
put on her dresses, so that they should outshine the dresses of the
other ladies at the court balls.

Nothing that she thought of seemed good enough, so, when the message was brought that the ogre
and his wares were below, she at once ordered that he should be brought
to her chamber.

Oh! what beautiful stones he laid before her; what lovely rubies, and what rare pearls! No other
lady would have jewels like those-- of that the princess was quite
sure; but she cast down her eyes so that the ogre might not see how
much she longed for them.'I fear they are too costly for me,'she said
carelessly;'and besides, I have hardly need of any more jewels just
now.'' I have no particular wish to sell them myself,'answered the
ogre, with equal indifference.'But I have a necklace of shining stones
which was left me by father, and one, the largest engraven with weird
characters, is missing.

I
have heard that it is in your husband's possession, and if you can get me that stone you shall
have any of these jewels that you choose.

But you will have to pretend that you want it for yourself; and,
above all, do not mention me, for he sets great store by it, and would
never part with it to a stranger!

To-morrow I will return with some jewels yet finer than those I have with me to-day. So, madam,
farewell!'Left alone, the princess began to think of many things, but chiefly as to whether
she would persuade her husband to give her the stone or not.

At one moment she felt he had already bestowed so much upon her that
it was a shame to ask for the only object he had kept back.

No, it would be mean; she could not do it! But then, those diamonds, and those string of pearls!
After all, they had only been married a week, and the pleasure of
giving it to her ought to be far greater than the pleasure of keeping
it for himself.

And she was sure it would be! Well, that evening, when the young man had supped off his favourite dishes
which the princess took care to have specially prepared for him,
she sat down close beside him, and began stroking his head.

For some time she did not speak, but listened attentively to all
the adventures that had befallen him that day.'But I was thinking
of you all the time,'said he at the end,'and wishing that I could
bring you back something you would like.

But, alas! what is there that you do not possess already?'' How good of you not to forget me when
you are in the midst of such dangers and hardships,'answered she.'Yes,
it is true I have many beautiful things; but if you want to give me
a present-- and to-morrow is my birthday-- there IS one thing that
I wish for very much.'' And what is that?

Of course you shall have it directly!'he asked eagerly.'It is that bright stone which fell out
of the folds of your turban a few days ago,'she answered, playing
with his finger;'the little stone with all those funny marks upon it.

I never saw any stone like it before.'The young man did not answer at first; then he said, slowly:'I
have promised, and therefore I must perform.

But will you swear never to part from it, and to keep it safely about
you always?

More I cannot tell you, but I beg you earnestly to take heed to this.'The princess was a little
startled by his manner, and began to be sorry that she had every
listened to the ogre.

But she did not like to draw back, and pretended to be immensely delighted at her new toy, and
kissed and thanked her husband for it.'After all I needn't give it
to the ogre,'thought she as she dropped off to sleep.

Unluckily the next morning the young man went hunting again, and
the ogre, who was watching, knew this, and did not come till much
later than before.

At the moment that he knocked at the door of the palace the princess
had tired of all her employments, and her attendants were at their wits'end
how to amuse her, when a tall negro dressed in scarlet came to announce
that the ogre was below, and desired to know if the princess would
speak to him.'Bring him hither at once!'cried she, springing up from
her cushions, and forgetting all her resolves of the previous night.

In another moment she was bending with rapture over the glittering
gems.'Have you got it?'asked the ogre in a whisper, for the princess's
ladies were standing as near as they dared to catch a glimpse of the
beautiful jewels.'Yes, here,'she answered, slipping the stone from
her sash and placing it among the rest.

Then she raised her voice, and began to talk quickly of the prices
of the chains and necklaces, and after some bargaining, to deceive
the attendants, she declared that she liked one string of pearls better
than all the rest, and that the ogre might take away the other things,
which were not half as valuable as he supposed.'As you please, madam,'said
he, bowing himself out of the palace.

Soon
after he had gone a curious thing happened. The princess carelessly touched the wall of her room,
which was wont to reflect the warm red light of the fire on the hearth, and found her hand quite
wet. She turned round, and-- was it her fancy? or did the fire burn
more dimly than before?

Hurriedly she passed into the picture gallery, where pools of water showed here and there on the
floor, and a cold chill ran through her whole body. At that instant her frightened ladies came
running down the stairs, crying:'Madam! madam! what has happened? The palace is disappearing under
our eyes!'' My husband will be home very soon,'answered the princess-- who, though nearly as much
frightened as her ladies, felt that she must set them a good example.'Wait
till then, and he will tell us what to do.'So they waited, seated
on the highest chairs they could find, wrapped in their warmest garments,
and with piles of cushions under their feet, while the poor birds
flew with numbed wings hither and thither, till they were so lucky
as to discover an open window in some forgotten corner.

Through this they vanished, and were seen no more. At last, when the princess and her ladies
had been forced to leave the upper rooms, where the walls and floors
had melted away, and to take refuge in the hall, the young man came
home.

He had ridden back along a winding road from which he did not see the palace till he was close
upon it, and stood horrified at the spectacle before him.

He knew in an instant that his wife must have betrayed his trust, but he would not reproach
her, as she must be suffering enough already.

Hurrying on he sprang over all that was left of the palace walls, and the princess gave a cry of relief
at the sight of him.'Come quickly,'he said,'or you will be frozen to death!'And a dreary little
procession set out for the king's palace, the greyhound and the cat
bringing up the rear.

At the gates he left them, though his wife besought him to allow her to enter.'You have betrayed
me and ruined me,'he said sternly;'I go to seek my fortune alone.'And without another word he
turned and left her. With his falcon on his wrist, and his greyhound and cat behind him,
the young man walked a long way, inquiring of everyone he met whether
they had seen his enemy the ogre.

But nobody had. Then he bade his falcon fly up into the sky-- up, up, and up-- and try if his sharp
eyes could discover the old thief. The bird had to go so high that he did not return for some hours;
but he told his master that the ogre was lying asleep in a splendid
palace in a far country on the shores of the sea.

This was delightful news to the young man, who instantly bought some meat for the falcon,
bidding him make a good meal.'To-morrow,'said he,'you will fly to
the palace where the ogre lies, and while he is asleep you will search
all about him for a stone on which is engraved strange signs; this
you will bring to me.

In three days I shall expect you back here.'' Well, I must take the cat with me,'answered the
bird. The sun had not yet risen before the falcon soared high into the air, the cat seated on his back,
with his paws tightly clasping the bird's neck.'You had better shut your eyes or you may get
giddy,'said the bird; and the cat, you had never before been off the
ground except to climb a tree, did as she was bid.

        All that day and all
    that night they flew, and in the morning they
    saw the ogre's palace lying beneath them.'Dear me,'said the cat,
opening her eyes for the first time,'that looks to me very like a
rat city down there, let us go down to it; they may be able to help
us.'So they alighted in some bushes in the heart of the rat city.

The falcon remained where he was, but the cat lay down outside the principal gate, causing terrible
excitement among the rats.

At length, seeing she did not move, one bolder than the rest put its head out of an upper window
of the castle, and said, in a trembling voice:'Why have you come here? What do you want? If it is
anything in our power, tell us, and we will do it.'' If you would have let me speak to you before,
I would have told you that I come as a friend,'replied the cat;'and I shall be greatly obliged if you
would send four of the strongest and cunningest among you, to do me a service.'' Oh, we shall
be delighted,'answered the rat, much relieved.'But if you will inform
me what it is you wish them to do I shall be better able to judge
who is most fitted for the post.'' I thank you,'said the cat.'Well,
what they have to do is this: To-night they must burrow under the
walls of the castle and go up to the room were an ogre lies asleep.

Somewhere about him he has hidden a stone, on which are engraved strange
signs. When they have found it they must take it from him without
his waking, and bring it to me.'' Your orders shall be obeyed,'replied
the rat.

And he went out to give his instructions. About midnight the cat, who was still sleeping before the
gate, was awakened by some water flung at her by the head rat, who
could not make up his mind to open the doors.'Here is the stone you
wanted,'said he, when the cat started up with a loud mew;'if you will
hold up your paws I will drop it down.'And so he did.'And now farewell,'continued
the rat;'you have a long way to go, and will do well to start before
daybreak.'' Your counsel is good,'replied the cat, smiling to itself;
and putting the stone in her mouth she went off to seek the falcon.

Now all this time neither the cat nor the falcon had had any food, and the falcon soon got tired
carrying such a heavy burden.

When
night arrived he declared he could go no further, but would spend it on the banks of a river.'And
it is my turn to take care of the stone,'said he,'or it will seem as if you had done everything
and I nothing.'' No, I got it, and I will keep it,'answered the cat,
who was tired and cross; and they began a fine quarrel.

But, unluckily, in the midst of it, the cat raised her voice, and
the stone fell into the ear of a big fish which happened to be swimming
by, and though both the cat and the falcon sprang into the water after
it, they were too late.

Half drowned, and more than half choked, the two faithful servants scrambled back to land again. The falcon
flew to a tree and spread his wings in the sun to dry, but the cat, after giving herself a good
shake, began to scratch up the sandy banks and to throw the bits
into the stream.'What are you doing that for?'asked a little fish.'Do
you know that you are making the water quite muddy?'' That doesn't
matter at all to me,'answered the cat.'I am going to fill up all the
river, so that the fishes may die.'' That is very unkind, as we have
never done you any harm,'replied the fish.'Why are you so angry with
us?'' Because one of you has got a stone of mine-- a stone with strange
signs upon it-- which dropped into the water.

If you will promise to get it back for me, why, perhaps I will leave
your river alone.'' I will certainly try,'answered the fish in a great
hurry;'but you must have a little patience, as it may not be an easy
task.'And in an instant his scales might be seen flashing quickly
along.

The fish swam as fast as he could to the sea, which was not far distant, and calling together
all his relations who lived in the neighbourhood, he told them of the terrible danger which threatened
the dwellers in the river.'None of us has got it,'said the fishes,
shaking their heads;'but in the bay yonder there is a tunny who, although
he is so old, always goes everywhere.

He will be able to tell you about it, if anyone can.'So the little fish swam off to the tunny,
and again related his story.'Why I was up that river only a few hours ago!'cried the tunny;'and
as I was coming back something fell into my ear, and there it is
still, for I went to sleep, when I got home and forgot all about it.

Perhaps it may be what you want.'And stretching up his tail he whisked
out the stone.'Yes, I think that must be it,'said the fish with joy.

And taking the stone in his mouth he carried it to the place where the cat was waiting for him.'I
am much obliged to you,'said the cat, as the fish laid the stone on the sand,'and to reward you,
I will let your river alone.'And she mounted the falcon's back, and
they flew to their master.

At first Major Buford rebelled at the thought of innkeeping.  His family had kept open house
before the war, and he came from a land where the thoughts of hospitality and of price were
not to be mentioned in the same day.  Yet all about him lay the crude conditions of a raw,
new country.  At best he could get no product from the land for many months, and then but a
problematical one.  He was in a region where each man did many things, and first that thing
which seemed nearest at hand to be done.  It was the common sense of old Aunt Lucy which discovered
the truth of the commercial proposition that what a man will pay for a given benefit is what
he ought to pay.  Had Aunt Lucy asked the cow-punchers even twice her tariff for a pie they
would have paid it gladly.  Had Mary Ellen asked them for their spurs and saddles, the latter
would have been laid down.

From the Halfway House south to the Red River there was nothing edible. And over this Red River
there came now swarming uncounted thousands of broad-horned cattle, driven by many bodies of
hardy, sunburned, beweaponed, hungry men.  At Ellisville, now rapidly becoming an important
cattle market, the hotel accommodations were more pretentious than comfortable, and many a
cowman who had sat at the board of the Halfway House going up the trail, would mount his horse
and ride back daily twenty-five miles for dinner.  Such are the attractions of corn bread and
chicken when prepared by the hands of a real genius gone astray on this much-miscooked world.

Many other guests were among those "locators," who came out to Ellisville and drove to the
south in search of "claims."  These usually travelled over the route of Sam, the stage-driver,
who carried the mail to Plum Centre during its life, and who never failed to sound the praises
of the Halfway House. At last he could bear it no longer, and one day he fancied he saw signs
of his mother turning against him too; so that night, when the ducks and hens were still asleep,
he stole away through an open door, and under cover of the burdock leaves scrambled on by the
bank of the canal, till he reached a wide grassy moor, full of soft marshy places where the
reeds grew. Here he lay down, but he was too tired and too frightened to fall asleep, and with
the earliest peep of the sun the reeds began to rustle, and he saw that he had blundered into a colony
of wild ducks.

But as he could not run away again he stood up and bowed politely.'You are ugly,'said the
wild ducks, when they had looked him well over;'but, however, it is no business of ours,
unless you wish to marry one of our daughters, and that we should not allow.'And the duckling
answered that he had no idea of marrying anybody, and wanted nothing
but to be left alone after his long journey.

So for two whole days he lay quietly among the reeds, eating such food as he could find, and
drinking the water of the moorland pool, till he felt himself quite strong again. He wished he
might stay were he was for ever, he was so comfortable and happy, away from everyone, with nobody
to bite him and tell him how ugly he was.

He was thinking these thoughts, when two young ganders caught sight of him as they were having
their evening splash among the reeds, looking for their supper.'We
are getting tired of this moor,'they said,'and to-morrow we think
of trying another, where the lakes are larger and the feeding better.

Will you come with us?'' Is it nicer than this?'asked the duckling
doubtfully. And the words were hardly out of his mouth, when'Pif! pah!'and
the two new-comers were stretched dead beside him.

At the sound of the gun the wild ducks in the rushes flew into the
air, and for a few minutes the firing continued.

Luckily for himself the duckling could not fly, and he floundered along through the water till
he could hide himself amidst some tall ferns which grew in a hollow.

But before he got there he met a huge creature on four legs, which he afterwards knew to be a
dog, who stood and gazed at him with a long red tongue hanging out
of his mouth.

The duckling grew cold with terror, and tried to hide his head beneath his little wings; but the
dog snuffed at him and passed on, and he was able to reach his place of shelter.'I am too ugly
even for a dog to eat,'said he to himself.'Well, that is a great mercy.'And he curled himself
up in the soft grass till the shots died away in the distance. When all had been quiet for a long time,
and there were only stars to see him, he crept out and looked about
him.

He
would never go near a pool again, never, thought he; and seeing that
the moor stretched far away in the opposite direction from which he
had come, he marched bravely on till he got to a small cottage, which
seemed too tumbledown for the stones to hold together many hours
longer.  Father, mother, brothers,
lover, every kin of earth nearest to her, had not death claimed them all?  What was there left,
what was there to be hoped here, cast away on this sea of land, this country that could never
be a land of homes? Sad doctrine, this, for a young woman in her early twenties, five feet
five, with the peach on her cheek in spite of the burning wind, and hands that reached out
for every little ailing chicken, for every kitten, or puppy that wanted comforting.

But when the morning came and the sun rose, and the blue sky smiled, and all the earth seemed
to be vibrant with some high-keyed summoning note--how difficult then it was to be sad!  How
far away indeed seemed the once-familiar scenes!  How hard it was not to hope, here in this
land of self-reliance and belief! The first thing he did when he reached the shore was to look
about for a piece of wood, and when he had found it he hid himself close to the hut, till
it grew quite dark and near the hour when the witch and her daughter
went to bed.

Then he crept up and fixed the wood under the door, which opened
outwards, in such a manner that the more you tried to shut it the
more firmly it stuck.

And this was what happened when the girl went as usual to bolt the
door and make all fast for the night.'What are you doing?'asked the
witch, as her daughter kept tugging at the handle.'There is something
the matter with the door; it won't shut,'answered she.'Well, leave
it alone; there is nobody to hurt us,'said the witch, who was very
sleepy; and the girl did as she was bid, and went to bed.

Very soon they both might have been heard snoring, and Pinkel knew
that his time was come.

Slipping off his shoes he stole into the hut on tiptoe, and taking from
his pocket some food of which the goat was particularly fond, he
laid it under his nose.

Then, while the animal was eating it, he stuffed each golden bell with
wool which he had also brought with him, stopping every minute to
listen, lest the witch should awaken, and he should find himself changed
into some dreadful bird or beast.

But the snoring still continued, and he went on with his work as quickly as he could. When the last
bell was done he drew another handful of food out of his pocket, and held it out to the goat,
which instantly rose to its feet and followed Pinkel, who backed slowly to the door, and directly
he got outside he seized the goat in his arms and ran down to the place
where he had moored his boat. As soon as he had reached the middle of the
lake, Pinkel took the wool out of the bells, which began to tinkle
loudly.

Their sound awoke the witch, who cried out as before:'Is that you,
Pinkel?'' Yes, dear mother, it is I,'said Pinkel.'Have you stolen
my golden goat?'asked she.'Yes, dear mother, I have,'answered Pinkel.'Are
you not a knave, Pinkel?'' Yes, dear mother, I am,'he replied.

And the old witch shouted in a rage:'Ah! beware how you come hither again, for next time you
shall not escape me!'But Pinkel laughed and rowed on. The king was so delighted with the goat that
he always kept it by his side, night and day; and, as he had promised,
Pinkel was made ruler over the third part of the kingdom.

As may be supposed, the brothers were more furious than ever, and grew quite thin with rage.'How
can we get rid of him?'said one to the other.

And at length they remembered the golden cloak.'He will need to be
clever if he is to steal that!'they cried, with a chuckle.

And when next the king came to see his horses they began to speak
of Pinkel and his marvellous cunning, and how he had contrived to
steal the lantern and the goat, which nobody else would have been
able to do.'But as he was there, it is a pity he could not have brought
away the golden cloak,'added they.'The golden cloak! what is that?'asked
the king.

And the young men described its beauties in such glowing words that
the king declared he should never know a day's happiness till he had
wrapped the cloak round his own shoulders.'And,'added he,'the man
who brings it to me shall wed my daughter, and shall inherit my throne.'' None
can get it save Pinkel,'said they; for they did not imagine that the
witch, after two warnings, could allow their brother to escape a third
time.

So Pinkel was sent for, and with a glad heart he set out.

He passed many hours inventing first one plan and then another, till
he had a scheme ready which he thought might prove successful.

Thrusting a large bag inside his coat, he pushed off from the shore,
taking care this time to reach the island in daylight.

Having made his boat fast to a tree, he walked up to the hut, hanging
his head, and putting on a face that was both sorrowful and ashamed.'Is
that you, Pinkel?'asked the witch when she saw him, her eyes gleaming
savagely.'Yes, dear mother, it is I,'answered Pinkel.'So you have
dared, after all you have done, to put yourself in my power!'cried
she.'Well, you sha'n't escape me THIS time!'And she took down a large
knife and began to sharpen it.'' Oh! dear mother, spare me!'shrieked
Pinkel, falling on his knees, and looking wildly about him.'Spare
you, indeed, you thief!

Where are my lantern and my goat?

No! not! there is only one fate for robbers!'And she brandished the
knife in the air so that it glittered in the firelight.'Then, if I
must die,'said Pinkel, who, by this time, was getting really rather
frightened,'let me at least choose the manner of my death.

I am very hungry, for I have had nothing to eat all day. Put some poison, if you like, into the
porridge, but at least let me have a good meal before I die.'' That is not a bad idea,'answered the
woman;'as long as you do die, it is all one to me.'And ladling out
a large bowl of porridge, she stirred some poisonous herbs into it,
and set about work that had to be done.

Then Pinkel hastily poured all the contents of the bowl into his
bag, and make a great noise with his spoon, as if he was scraping
up the last morsel.'Poisoned or not, the porridge is excellent.

I have eaten it, every scrap; do give me some more,'said Pinkel,
turning towards her.'Well, you have a fine appetite, young man,'answered
the witch;'however, it is the last time you will ever eat it, so I
will give you another bowlful.'And rubbing in the poisonous herbs,
she poured him out half of what remained, and then went to the window
to call her cat.

In an instant Pinkel again emptied the porridge into the bag, and the next minute he rolled on
the floor, twisting himself about as if in agony, uttering loud groans the while. Suddenly he
grew silent and lay still.'Ah! I thought a second dose of that poison would be too much for you,'said
the witch looking at him.'I warned you what would happen if you came
back.

I wish that all thieves were as dead as you!

But
why does not my lazy girl bring the wood I sent her for, it will soon be too dark for her to
find her way? I suppose I must go and search for her. What a trouble girls are!'And she went to
the door to watch if there were any signs of her daughter.

But nothing could be seen of her, and heavy rain was falling.'It
is no night for my cloak,'she muttered;'it would be covered with mud
by the time I got back.'So she took it off her shoulders and hung
it carefully up in a cupboard in the room.

After that she put on her clogs and started to seek her daughter.
Directly the last sound of the clogs had ceased, Pinkel jumped up and took
down the cloak, and rowed off as fast as he could.

He had not gone far when a puff of wind unfolded the cloak, and its
brightness shed gleams across the water.

The witch, who was just entering the forest, turned round at that moment and saw the golden rays.
She forgot all about her daughter, and ran down to the shore, screaming
with rage at being outwitted a third time.'Is that you, Pinkel?'cried
she.'Yes, dear mother, it is I.'' Have you taken my gold cloak?'' Yes,
dear mother, I have.'' Are you not a great knave?'' Yes, truly dear
mother, I am.'And so indeed he was!

But, all the same, he carried the cloak to the king's palace, and in
return he received the hand of the king's daughter in marriage.

People said that it was the bride who ought to have worn the cloak at her wedding feast; but the
king was so pleased with it that he would not part from it; and to
the end of his life was never seen without it.

After his death, Pinkel became king; and let up hope that he gave
up his bad and thievish ways, and ruled his subjects well.

As for his brothers, he did not punish them, but left them in the
stables, where they grumbled all day long.

The Adventures of a Jackal [Thorpe's Yule-Tide Stories.] In a country
which is full of wild beasts of all sorts there once lived a jackal
and a hedgehog, and, unlike though they were, the two animals made
great friends, and were often seen in each other's company.

One afternoon they were walking along a road together, when the jackal, who was the taller of
the two, exclaimed:'Oh! there is a barn full of corn; let us go and
eat some.'' Yes, do let us!'answered the hedgehog.

So they went to the barn, and ate till they could eat no more. Then
the jackal put on his shoes, which he had taken off so as to make
no noise, and they returned to the high road.

After they had gone some way they met a panther, who stopped, and bowing politely, said:'Excuse
my speaking to you, but I cannot help admiring those shoes of yours.

Do you
mind telling me who made them?'' Yes, I think they are rather nice,'answered
the jackal;'I made them myself, though.'' Could you make me a pair
like them?'asked the panther eagerly.'I would do my best, of course,'replied
the jackal;'but you must kill me a cow, and when we have eaten the
flesh I will take the skin and make your shoes out of it.'So the panther
prowled about until he saw a fine cow grazing apart from the rest
of the herd.

He killed it instantly, and then gave a cry to the jackal and hedgehog
to come to the place where he was.

They soon skinned the dead beasts, and spread its skin out to dry,
after which they had a grand feast before they curled themselves
up for the night, and slept soundly.

Next morning the jackal got up early
and set to work upon the shoes, while the panther sat by and looked
on with delight. At last they were finished, and the jackal arose and
stretched himself.'Now go and lay them in the sun out there,'said
he;'in a couple of hours they will be ready to put on; but do not
attempt to wear them before, or you will feel them most uncomfortable.

But I see the sun is high in the heavens, and we must be continuing our journey.'The panther,
who always believed what everybody told him, did exactly as he was
bid, and in two hours'time began to fasten on the shoes.

They certainly set off his paws wonderfully, and he stretched out his forepaws and looked at them
with pride.

But when he tried to walk-- ah! that was another story! They were so stiff and hard that he nearly
shrieked every step he took, and at last he sank down where he was, and
actually began to cry. After some time some little partridges who
were hopping about heard the poor panther's groans, and went up to
see what was the matter.

He had never tried to make his dinner off them, and they had always been quite friendly.'You
seem in pain,'said one of them, fluttering close to him,'can we help you?'' Oh, it is the jackal!
He made me these shoes; they are so hard and tight that they hurt
my feet, and I cannot manage to kick them off.'' Lie still, and we
will soften them,'answered the kind little partridge.

And calling to his brothers, they all flew to the nearest spring, and carried water in their beaks,
which they poured over the shoes. This they did till the hard leather grew soft, and the
panther was able to slip his feet out of them.'Oh, thank you, thank
you,'he cried, skipping round with joy.'I feel a different creature.

Now I will go after the jackal and pay him my debts.'And he bounded
away into the forest.

But the jackal had been very cunning, and had trotted backwards and forwards and in and out, so
that it was very difficult to know which track he had really followed. At length, however,
the panther caught sight of his enemy, at the same moment that the
jackal had caught sight of him.

The panther gave a loud roar, and sprang forward, but the jackal
was too quick for him and plunged into a dense thicket, where the
panther could not follow.

Disgusted with his failure, but more angry than ever, the panther
lay down for a while to consider what he should do next, and as he
was thinking, an old man came by.'Oh! father, tell me how I can repay
the jackal for the way he has served me!'And without more ado he told
his story.'If you take my advice,'answered the old man,'you will kill
a cow, and invite all the jackals in the forest to the feast.

Watch them carefully while they are eating, and you will see that
most of them keep their eyes on their food.

But if one of them glances at you, you will know that is the traitor.'The
panther, whose manners were always good, thanked the old man, and
followed his counsel.

The cow was killed, and the partridges flew about with invitations
to the jackals, who gathered in large numbers to the feast.

The wicked jackal came amongst them; but as the panther had only seen him
once he could not distinguish him from the rest.

However, they all took their places on wooden seats placed round
the dead cow, which was laid across the boughs of a fallen tree, and
began their dinner, each jackal fixing his eyes greedily on the piece
of meat before him.

Only one of them seemed uneasy, and every now and then glanced in
the direction of his host.

This the panther noticed, and suddenly made a bound at the culprit
and seized his tail; but again the jackal was too quick for him, and
catching up a knife he cut off his tail and darted into the forest,
followed by all the rest of the party.

And before the panther had recovered from his surprise he found himself
alone.'What am I to do now?'he asked the old man, who soon came back
to see how things had turned out.'It is very unfortunate, certainly,'answered
he;'but I think I know where you can find him.

There is a melon garden about two miles from here, and as jackals
are very fond of melons they are nearly sure to have gone there to
feed.

If you see a tailless jackal you will know that he is the one you
want.'So the panther thanked him and went his way.

Now the jackal had guessed what advice the old man would give his
enemy, and so, while his friends were greedily eating the ripest melons
in the sunniest corner of the garden, he stole behind them and tied
their tails together.

He had only just finished when his ears caught the sound of breaking
branches; and he cried:'Quick! quick! here comes the master of the
garden!'And the jackals sprang up and ran away in all directions,
leaving their tails behind them.

And how was the panther to know which was his enemy?'They none of them had any tails,'he said
sadly to the old man,'and I am tired of hunting them. I shall leave them alone and go and
catch something for supper.'Of course the hedgehog had not been able to take part in any of these
adventures; but as soon as all danger was over, the jackal went to look for his friend, whom he
was lucky enough to find at home.'Ah, there you are,'he said gaily.'I
have lost my tail since I saw you last.

And other people have lost theirs too; but that is no matter!

I am hungry, so come with me to the shepherd who is sitting over
there, and we will ask him to sell us one of his sheep.'' Yes, that
is a good plan,'answered the hedgehog.

And he walked as fast as his little legs would go to keep up with the jackal. When they reached
the shepherd the jackal pulled out his purse from under his foreleg,
and made his bargain.'Only wait till to-morrow,'said the shepherd,'and
I will give you the biggest sheep you ever saw.

But he always feeds at some distance from the rest of the flock, and it would take me a long
time to catch him.'' Well, it is very tiresome, but I suppose I must
wait,'replied the jackal.

And he and the hedgehog looked about for a nice dry cave in which
to make themselves comfortable for the night.

But, after they had gone, the shepherd killed one of his sheep, and stripped off his skin, which
he sewed tightly round a greyhound he had with him, and put a cord round its neck. Then he
lay down and went to sleep.

Very, very early, before the sun was properly up, the jackal and
the hedgehog were pulling at the shepherd's cloak.'Wake up,'they said,'and
give us that sheep.

We have had nothing to eat all night, and are very hungry.'The shepherd yawned and rubbed his eyes.'He
is tied up to that tree; go and take him.'So they went to the tree
and unfastened the cord, and turned to go back to the cave where they
had slept, dragging the greyhound after them.

When they reached the cave the jackal said to the hedgehog.'Before
I kill him let me see whether he is fat or thin.'And he stood a little
way back, so that he might the better examine the animal.

After looking at him, with his head on one side, for a minute or
two, he nodded gravely.'He is quite fat enough; he is a good sheep.'But
the hedgehog, who sometimes showed more cunning than anyone would
have guessed, answered:'My friend, you are talking nonsense.

The wool is indeed a sheep's wool, but the paws of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath.'' He
is a sheep,'repeated the jackal, who did not like to think anyone
cleverer than himself.'Hold the cord while I look at him,'answered
the hedgehog.

Very unwillingly the jackal held the rope, while the hedgehog walked slowly round the greyhound
till he reached the jackal again. He knew quite well by the paws and tail that it was a greyhound
and not a sheep, that the shepherd had sold them; and as he could
not tell what turn affairs might take, he resolved to get out of the
way.  "Well, in regard to my half of it," he said, "I can
neither affirm nor deny it.  But if what you say were true, don't you think you might find
it pretty hard to talk to Miss Beauchamp on this matter?"

"Not in a hundred!" said Sam eagerly.  "I'd just as soon talk to Miss Beecham as not.  I'd
ruther.  They ain't no feller around here that I think's any whiter than you be.  An' Lord
knows, that girl down there is handsome as ever looked through a bridle, and kind as she is
handsome.  I've seen her now, reg'lar, in my trips down there for quite a while, an' I promise
you, she's a thoroughbred, an' high strung, but as even gaited as ever stepped.  Yes, sir!"

"She is all that, I think, Sam," said Franklin soberly.

"Then it's a go, Cap?"

"Well, I'll tell you, Sam," said Franklin kindly, "maybe we'd better let it run along a little
while as it is.  You know, girls have odd notions of their own.  Perhaps a girl would rather
have a man speak for himself about that sort of thing.  And then, the asking sometimes is the
easiest part of it."

"Then you'll ast Nory for me?"

"Well, if I could say a word, just a hint, you know--"

"You won't!" exclaimed Sam bitterly, and in tones; of conviction.  "You won't!  There ain't
nobody won't!  I've tried, an' there won't nobody! There'll be some d----d cow-puncher blow
in there some day and marry that Nory girl, an' I never will git to tell her the way I feel."

"Oh, yes, you will," said Franklin.  "It'll come to you some time; and when it does, friend,"
he added gravely, laying a hand upon Sam's shoulder, "I hope she'll not say no to you forever."

"Forever, Cap?"

"Yes, it sometimes happens that way."

"Forever?  Well, if Nory ever said no to me onct, that shore would settle it.  I know what
I'd do: I'd sell out my barn an' I'd hit the trail mighty quick.  Do they ever do that way, Cap?"

"Yes," said Franklin, "they tell me that they sometimes do.  They're strange creatures, Sam."

"An' that's no lie!" said Sam.  "But here, I'm forgettin' of your span."

He disappeared within the barn, whence presently arose sounds of tumult.  The "span" emerged
with one half of its constituent parts walking on its hind legs and lashing out viciously in front.

"Well, I don't know about that black," said Franklin critically.  "He's a bit bronco, isn't he?"

"What, him?" said Sam.  "Naw, he's all right.  You don't suppose I'd run in any wild stock
on you, do you?  He's been hitched up sever'l times, an' he's plumb gentle.  May rare up a
little at first, but he's all right.  Of course, you want to have a little style about you,
goin' down there."

Franklin got into the buggy, while Sam held the head of the "plumb gentle" horse.  When cast
loose the latter reared again and came down with his fore feet over the neck yoke.  Nimbly
recovering, he made a gallant attempt to kick in the dashboard.  This stirred up his mate to
a thought of former days, and the two went away pawing and plunging. "So long!" cried Sam,
waving his hand.  "Good luck!"

Franklin was for a time busy in keeping his team upon the trail, but soon they settled down
into a steady, shuffling trot, to which they held for mile after mile over the hard prairie
road.  The day was bright and clear, the air sweet and bracing.  An hour's drive from the town,
and the traveller seemed in a virgin world.  A curious coyote sat on a hill, regarding intently
the spectacle of a man travelling with wheels beneath him, instead of the legs of a horse.
A band of antelope lined up on the crest of a ridge and stood staring steadfastly. They pushed off,
but as they dipped the paddles into the water, they snapped as the bows had done, and were quite
useless.'I know where there are some new ones,'cried a young fellow,
leaping on shore and rushing to a little cave at the back of the
beach.

And the mink's heart smote him when he heard, for he had not known of this secret store. After a
long chase the wolves managed to surround their prey, and the mink, seeing it was no good resisting
any more, gave himself up.

Some of the elder wolves brought out some cedar bands, which they always carried wound round their
bodies, but the mink laughed scornfully at the sight of them.'Why I could snap those in a moment,'said
he;'if you want to make sure that I cannot escape, better take a line of kelp and bind me with that.'' You
are right,'answered the grandfather;'your wisdom is greater than
ours.'And he bade his servants gather enough kelp from the rocks to
make a line, as they had brought none with them.'While the line is
being made you might as well let me have one last dance,'remarked
the mink.

And the wolves replied:'Very good, you may have your dance; perhaps
it may amuse us as well as you.'So they brought two canoes and placed
them one beside the other.

The mink stood up on his hind legs and began to dance,
first in one canoe and then in the other; and so graceful was he,
that the wolves forgot they were going to put him to death, and howled
with pleasure.'Pull the canoes a little apart; they are too close
for this new dance,'he said, pausing for a moment.

And the wolves separated them while he gave a series of little springs, sometime pirouetting while
he stood with one foot on the prow of both.'Now nearer, now further apart,'he would cry as the dance
went on.'No! further still.'And springing into the air, amidst howls of applause, he came down
head-foremost, and dived to the bottom. And through the wolves, whose howls had now changed into
those of rage, sought him everywhere, they never found him, for he
hid behind a rock till they were out of sight, and then made his home
in another forest.

Adventures of an Indian Brave [From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute.] A long, long
way off, right away in the west of America, there once lived an old man who had one son. The country
round was covered with forests, in which dwelt all kinds of wild beasts, and the young man
and his companions used to spend whole days in hunting them, and
he was the finest hunter of all the tribe.

One morning, when winter was coming on, the youth and his companions set off as usual to bring back some
of the mountain goats and deer to be salted down, as he was afraid of a snow-storm; and if
the wind blew and the snow drifted the forest might be impassable for some weeks. The old man and the wife,
however, would not go out, but remained in the wigwam making bows
and arrows.

It soon grew so cold in the forest that at last one of the men declared
they could walk no more, unless they could manage to warm themselves.'That
is easily done,'said the leader, giving a kick to a large tree.

Flames broke out in the trunk, and before it had burnt up they were
as hot as if it had been summer.

Then they started off to the place where the goats and deer were to be found in the greatest
numbers, and soon had killed as many as they wanted. But the leader killed most, as he was the
best shot.'Now we must cut up the game and divide it,'said he; and so they did, each one
taking his own share; and, walking one behind the other, set out
for the village.

But when they reached a great river the young man did not want the trouble of carrying his pack any
further, and left it on the bank.'I am going home another way,'he told his companions. And taking
another road he reached the village long before they did.'Have you returned with empty hands?'asked
the old man, as his son opened the door.'Have I ever done that, that
you put me such a question?'asked the youth.'No; I have slain enough
to feast us for many moons, but it was heavy, and I left the pack
on the bank of the great river.

Give me the arrows, I will finish making them, and you can go to the river and bring home
the pack!'So the old man rose and went, and strapped the meat on
his shoulder; but as he was crossing the ford the strap broke and
the pack fell into the river.

He stooped to catch it, but it swirled past him.

He clutched again; but in doing so he over-balanced himself and was hurried into some rapids,
where he was knocked against some rocks, and he sank and was drowned, and his body was carried down
the stream into smoother water when it rose to the surface again. But by this time it had lost
all likeness to a man, and was changed into a piece of wood.

The wood floated on, and the river got bigger and bigger and entered a new country. There it was
borne by the current close to the shore, and a woman who was down there washing her clothes caught
it as it passed, and drew it out, saying to herself:'What a nice smooth plank! I will use
it as a table to put my food upon.'And gathering up her clothes she
took the plank with her into her hut.

When her supper time came she stretched the board across two strings which hung from the roof,
and set upon it the pot containing a stew that smelt very good.

The woman had been working hard all day and was very hungry, so she
took her biggest spoon and plunged it into the pot.

But what was her astonishment and disgust when both pot and food vanished instantly before her!'Oh,
you horrid plank, you have brought me ill-luck!'she cried. And taking it up she flung it away
from her. The woman had been surprised before at the disappearance of her food, but she was more
astonished still when, instead of the plank, she beheld a baby.

However, she was fond of children and had none of her own, so she made up her mind that she would
keep it and take care of it. The baby grew and throve as no baby in that country had ever done,
and in four days he was a man, and as tall and strong as any brave of the tribe.'You have
treated me well,'he said,'and meat shall never fail to your house. But now I must go, for
I have much work to do.'Then he set out for his home. It took him
many days to get there, and when he saw his son sitting in his place
his anger was kindled, and his heart was stirred to take vengeance
upon him.

So he went out quickly into the forest and shed tears, and each tear
became a bird.'Stay there till I want you,'said he; and he returned
to the hut.'I saw some pretty new birds, high up in a tree yonder,'he
remarked.

And
the son answered:'Show me the way and I will get them for dinner.'The two went out together,
and after walking for about half an hour they old man stopped.'That is the tree,'he said. And
the son began to climb it. Now a strange thing happened. The higher the young man climbed the
higher the birds seemed to be, and when he looked down the earth below appeared no bigger than
a star.

Sill he tried to go back, but he could not, and though he could not
see the birds any longer he felt as if something were dragging him
up and up.

He thought that he had been climbing that tree for days, and perhaps
he had, for suddenly a beautiful country, yellow with fields of maize,
stretched before him, and he gladly left the top of the tree and entered
it.

He walked through the maize without knowing where he was going, when he heard a sound of knocking,
and saw two old blind women crushing their food between two stones.

He crept up to them on tiptoe, and when one old woman passed her dinner to the other he held out his
hand and took it and ate if for himself.'How slow you are kneading
that cake,'cried the other old woman at last.'Why, I have given you
your dinner, and what more do you want?'replied the second.'You didn't;
at least I never got it,'said the other.'I certainly thought you took
it from me; but here is some more.'And again the young man stretched
out his hand; and the two old women fell to quarrelling afresh.

But when it happened for the third time the old women suspected some trick, and one of them exclaimed:'I
am sure there is a man here; tell me, are you not my grandson?'' Yes,'answered the young man, who
wished to please her,'and in return for your good dinner I will see if I cannot restore your sight;
for I was taught in the art of healing by the best medicine man
in the tribe.'And with that he left them, and wandered about till
he found the herb which he wanted.

Then he hastened back to the old women, and begging them to boil him some water, he threw the
herb in.

As soon as the pot began to sing he took off the lid, and sprinkled
the eyes of the women, and sight came back to them once more.

There was no night in that country, so, instead of going to bed very early, as he would have done
in his own hut, the young man took another walk.

A splashing noise near by drew him down to a valley through which ran a large river, and up a waterfall
some salmon were leaping.

How their silver sides glistened in the light, and how he longed to catch some of the great
fellows! But how could he do it?

He had beheld no one except the old women, and it was not very likely that they would be able to
help him.

So with a sigh he turned away and went back to them, but, as he walked, a thought struck him. He
pulled out one of his hairs which hung nearly to his waist, and it
instantly became a strong line, nearly a mile in length.'Weave me
a net that I may catch some salmon,'said he.

And they wove him the net he asked for, and for many weeks he watched by the river, only going
back to the old women when he wanted a fish cooked.

At last, one day, when he was eating his dinner, the old woman who always spoke first, said to him:'We
have been very glad to see you, grandson, but now it is time that
you went home.'And pushing aside a rock, he saw a deep hole, so deep
that he could not see to the bottom.

Then they dragged a basket out of the house, and tied a rope to it.'Get in, and wrap this blanket
round your head,'said they;'and, whatever happens, don't uncover
it till you get to the bottom.'Then they bade him farewell, and he
curled himself up in the basket.

Down, down, down he went; would he ever stop going? But when the basket did stop, the young
man forgot what he had been told, and put his head out to see what
was the matter.

In an instant the basket moved, but, to his horror, instead of going
down, he felt himself being drawn upwards, and shortly after he beheld
the faces of the old women.'You will never see your wife and son if
you will not do as you are bid,'said they.'Now get in, and do not
stir till you hear a crow calling.'This time the young man was wiser,
and though the basket often stopped, and strange creatures seemed
to rest on him and to pluck at his blanket, he held it tight till
he heard the crow calling.

Then he flung off the blanket and sprang out, while the basket vanished
in the sky.

He walked on quickly down the track that led to the hut, when, before
him, he saw his wife with his little son on her back.'Oh! there is
father at last,'cried the boy; but the mother bade him cease from
idle talking.'But, mother, it is true; father is coming!'repeated
the child.

And, to satisfy him, the woman turned round and perceived her husband.
Oh, how glad they all were to be together again! And when the wind whistled
through the forest, and the snow stood in great banks round the door,
the father used to take the little boy on his knee and tell him how
he caught salmon in the Land of the Sun.

How the Stalos Were Tricked [From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute.]'Mother, I
have seen such a wonderful man,'said a little boy one day, as he
entered a hut in Lapland, bearing in his arms the bundle of sticks
he had been sent out to gather.'Have you, my son; and what was he
like?'asked the mother, as she took off the child's sheepskin coat
and shook it on the doorstep.'Well, I was tired of stooping for the
sticks, and was leaning against a tree to rest, when I heard a noise
of'sh-'sh, among the dead leaves.

I thought perhaps it was a wolf, so I stood very still.

But soon
there came past a tall man-- oh! twice as tall as father-- with a long
red beard and a red tunic fastened with a silver girdle, from which
hung a silver-handled knife. Behind him followed a great dog, which looked
stronger than any wolf, or even a bear. But why are you so pale, mother?'' It
was the Stalo,'replied she, her voice trembling;'Stalo the man-eater!

You did well to hide, or you might never had come back. But, remember
that, though he is so tall and strong, he is very stupid, and many
a Lapp has escaped from his clutches by playing him some clever trick.'Not
long after the mother and son had held this talk, it began to be whispered
in the forest that the children of an old man called Patto had vanished
one by one, no one knew whither.

The unhappy father searched the country for miles round without being able to find as much as
a shoe or a handkerchief, to show him where they had passed, but
at length a little boy came with news that he had seen the Stalo hiding
behind a well, near which the children used to play.

The boy had waited behind a clump of bushes to see what would happen, and by-and-by he noticed
that the Stalo had laid a cunning trap in the path to the well, and
that anybody who fell over it would roll into the water and drown
there.

And, as he watched, Patto's youngest daughter ran gaily down the path, till her foot caught in the strings
that were stretched across the steepest place. She slipped and fell, and in another instant
had rolled into the water within reach of the Stalo.

As soon as Patto heard this tale his heart was filled with rage, and he vowed to have his revenge.
So he straightway took an old fur coat from the hook where it hung, and putting it on went out
into the forest. When he reached the path that led to the well he looked hastily round to be sure
that no one was watching him, then laid himself down as if he had
been caught in the snare and had rolled into the well, though he took
care to keep his head out of the water.

Very soon he heard a'sh-'sh of the leaves, and there was the Stalo
pushing his way through the undergrowth to see what chance he had
of a dinner.

At the first glimpse of Patto's head in the well he laughed loudly, crying:'Ha! ha! This time
it is the old ass!

I wonder how he will taste?'And drawing Patto out of the well, he
flung him across his shoulders and carried him home.

Then
he tied a cord round him and hung him over the fire to roast, while he finished a box that he
was making before the door of the hut, which he meant to hold Patto's flesh when it was cooked.
In a very short time the box was so nearly done that it only wanted a little more chipping
out with an axe; but this part of the work was easier accomplished indoors, and he called to one
of his sons who were lounging inside to bring him the tool.

The young man looked everywhere, but he could not find the axe, for the very good reason that Patto
had managed to pick it up and hide it in his clothes.'Stupid fellow! what is the use of you?'grumbled
his father angrily; and he bade first one and then another of his sons
to fetch him the tool, but they had no better success than their brother.'I
must come myself, I suppose!'said Stalo, putting aside the box.

But, meanwhile, Patto had slipped from the hook and concealed himself behind the door, so that,
as Stalo stepped in, his prisoner raised the axe, and with one blow
the ogre's head was rolling on the ground.

His sons were so frightened at the sight that they all ran away. And in this manner Patto avenged his
dead children. But though Stalo was dead, his three sons were still living, and not very far
off either.

They had gone to their mother, who was tending some reindeer on the pastures,
and told her that by some magic, they knew not what, their father's
head had rolled from his body, and they had been so afraid that something
dreadful would happen to them that they had come to take refuge with
her.

The ogress said nothing.

Long ago she had found out how stupid her sons were, so she just sent them out to milk the reindeer,
while she returned to the other house to bury her husband's body.

Now, three days'journey from the hut on the pastures two brothers Sodno dwelt in a small cottage
with their sister Lyma, who tended a large herd of reindeer while they were out hunting. Of late
it had been whispered from one to another that the three young Stalos
were to be seen on the pastures, but the Sodno brothers did not disturb
themselves, the danger seemed too far away.

Unluckily, however, one day, when Lyma was left by herself in the
hut, the three Stalos came down and carried her and the reindeer off
to their own cottage.

The country was very lonely, and perhaps no one would have known
in which direction she had gone had not the girl managed to tie a
ball of thread to the handle of a door at the back of the cottage
and let it trail behind her.

Of course the ball was not long enough to go all the way, but it lay on the edge of a snowy track
which led straight to the Stalos'house.

When the brothers returned from their hunting they found both the hut and the sheds empty. Loudly
they cried:'Lyma!

Lyma!'But no voice answered them; and they fell to searching all about, lest perchance their
sister might have dropped some clue to guide them. At length their eyes dropped on the thread
which lay on the snow, and they set out to follow it. On and on they went, and when at length
the thread stopped the brothers knew that another day's journey would
bring them to the Stalos'dwelling.

Of course they did not dare to approach it openly, for the Stalos had the strength of giants,
and besides, there were three of them; so the two Sodnos climbed
into a big bushy tree which overhung a well.'Perhaps our sister may
be sent to draw water here,'they said to each other.

But it was not till the moon had risen that the sister came, and as she let down her bucket into
the well, the leaves seemed to whisper'Lyma! Lyma!'The girl started and looked up, but could
see nothing, and in a moment the voice came again.'Be careful-- take
no notice, fill your buckets, but listen carefully all the while,
and we will tell you what to do so that you may escape yourself and
set free the reindeer also.'So Lyman bent over the well lower than
before, and seemed busier than ever.'You know,'said her brother,'that
when a Stalo finds that anything has been dropped into his food he
will not eat a morsel, but throws it to his dogs.

Now,
after the pot has been hanging some time over the fire, and the
broth is nearly cooked, just rake up the log of wood so that some of
the ashes fly into the pot.

The Stalo will soon notice this, and will call you to give all the food
to the dogs; but, instead, you must bring it straight to us, as it
is three days since we have eaten or drunk. That is all you need do
for the present.'Then Lyma took up her buckets and carried them into
the house, and did as her brothers had told her.

They were so hungry that they ate the food up greedily without speaking, but when there was nothing
left in the pot, the eldest one said:'Listen carefully to what I have
to tell you. After the eldest Stalo has cooked and eaten a fresh
supper, he will go to bed and sleep so soundly that not even a witch
could wake him.

You can hear him snoring a mile off, and then you must go into his room and pull off the iron
mantle that covers him, and put it on the fire till it is almost red hot. When that is done, come
to us and we will give you further directions.'' I will obey you in
everything, dear brothers,'answered Lyman; and so she did.

It had happened that on this very evening the Stalos had driven in some
of the reindeer from the pasture, and had tied them up to the wall
of the house so that they might be handy to kill for next day's dinner.

The two Sodnos had seen what they were doing, and where the beasts were
secured; so, at midnight, when all was still, they crept down from
their tree and seized the reindeer by the horns which were locked
together.

The animals were frightened, and began to neigh and kick, as if they
were fighting together, and the noise became so great that even the
eldest Stalo was awakened by it, and that was a thing which had never occurred
before.

Raising himself in his bed, he called to his youngest brother to go
out and separate the reindeer or they would certainly kill themselves.
The young Stalo did as he was bid, and left the house; but no sooner
was he out of the door than he was stabbed to the heart by one of
the Sodnos, and fell without a groan.

Then they went back to worry the reindeer, and the noise became as
great as ever, and a second time the Stalo awoke.'The boy does not
seem to be able to part the beasts,'he cried to his second brother;'go
and help him, or I shall never get to sleep.'So the brother went,
and in an instant was struck dead as he left the house by the sword
of the eldest Sodno.

The Stalo waited in bed a little longer for things to get quiet,
but as the clatter of the reindeer's horns was as bad as ever, he
rose angrily from his bed muttering to himself:'It is extraordinary
that they cannot unlock themselves; but as no one else seems able
to help them I suppose I must go and do it.'Rubbing his eyes, he stood
up on the floor and stretched his great arms and gave a yawn which
shook the walls.

The Sodnos heard it below, and posted themselves, one at the big door and one at the little door
at the back, for they did not know what their enemy would come out at. The Stalo put out his hand
to take his iron mantle from the bed, where it always lay, but the
mantle was no there.

He wondered where it could be, and who could have moved it, and after searching through all
the rooms, he found it hanging over the kitchen fire. But the first
touch burnt him so badly that he let it alone, and went with nothing,
except a stick in his hand, through the back door.

The young Sodno was standing ready for him, and as the Stalo passed
the threshold struck him such a blow on the head that he rolled over
with a crash and never stirred again.

The two Sodnos did not trouble about him, but quickly stripped the younger Stalos of their
clothes, in which they dressed themselves. Then they sat still till the dawn should break and
they could find out from the Stalos'mother where the treasure was
hidden.

With the first rays of the sun the young Sodno went upstairs and entered the old woman's room.
She was already up and dressed, and sitting by the window knitting, and
the young man crept in softly and crouched down on the floor, laying
his head on her lap.

For a while he kept silence, then he whispered gently:'Tell me, dear
mother, where did my eldest brother conceal his riches?'' What a strange
question!

Surely you must know,'answered she.'No, I have forgotten; my memory
is so bad.'' He dug a hole under the doorstep and placed it there,'said
she.

And there was another pause. By-and-by the Sodno asked again:'And where may my second brother's
money be?'' Don't you know that either?'cried the mother in surprise.'Oh,
yes; I did once. But since I fell upon my head I can remember nothing.'' It
is behind the oven,'answered she. And again was silence.'Mother, dear mother,'said
the young man at last,'I am almost afraid to ask you; but I really have
grown so stupid of late.

Where did I hide my own money?'But at this question the old woman flew into a passion, and vowed
that if she could find a rod she would bring his memory back to him.
Luckily, no rod was within her reach, and the Sodno managed, after
a little, to coax her back into good humour, and at length she told
him that the youngest Stalo had buried his treasure under the very
place where she was sitting.'Dear mother,'said Lyman, who had come
in unseen, and was kneeling in front of the fire.'Dear mother, do
you know who it is you have been talking with?'The old woman started,
but answered quietly:'It is a Sodno, I suppose?'' You have guessed
right,'replied Lyma.

The mother of the Stalos looked round for her iron cane, which she always used to kill her victims,
but it was not there, for Lyma had put it in the fire.'Where is my iron cane?'asked the old
woman.  Cursing his ill fortune, and wretched at the thought of the danger and discomfort
he had brought upon the very one whom he would most gladly have shielded, Franklin said not
a word from the beginning of the mad dash down the coulee until he got the horses again into
harness.  He did not like to admit to his companion how great had been the actual danger just
incurred, though fortunately escaped.  The girl was as silent as himself.  She had not uttered
a cry during the time of greatest risk, though once she laid a hand upon his arm.  Franklin
was humiliated and ashamed, as a man always is over an accident.

"Oh, it's no good saying I'm sorry," he broke out at last.  "It was my fault, letting you ride
behind that brute.  Thank God, you're not hurt! And I'm only too glad it wasn't worse.  I'm
always doing some unfortunate, ignoble thing.  I want to take care of you and make you happy,
and I would begin by putting your very life in danger."

"It wasn't ignoble," said the girl, and again he felt her hand upon his arm.  "It was grand.
You went straight, and you brought us through. I'm not hurt.  I was frightened, but I am not hurt."

"You've pluck," said Franklin.  Then, scorning to urge anything further of his suit at this
time of her disadvantage, though feeling a strange new sense of nearness to her, now that they
had seen this distress in common, he drove home rapidly as he might through the gathering dusk,
anxious now only for her comfort.  At the house he lifted her from the buggy, and as he did
so kissed her cheek.  "Dear little woman," he whispered, "good-bye."  Again he doubted whether
he had heard or not the soft whisper of a faint "Good-bye!"

"But you must come in," she said.

"No, I must go.  Make my excuses," he said.  "Good-bye!"  The horses sprang sharply forward.
He was gone.

The roll of the wheels and the rhythmic hoof-beats rapidly lessened to the ear as Franklin
drove on into the blackening night.  In her own little room Mary Ellen sat, her face where
it might have been seen in profile had there been a light or had the distant driver looked
round to see.  Mary Ellen listened--listened until she could hear hoof and wheel no more. 
Then she cast herself upon the bed, face downward, and lay motionless and silent.  Upon the
little dresser lay a faded photograph, fallen forward also upon its face, lying unnoticed and
apparently forgot.

CHAPTER XXV

BILL WATSON

The sheriff of Ellisville sat in his office oiling the machinery of the law; which is to say,
cleaning his revolver.  There was not yet any courthouse.  The sheriff was the law.  Twelve
new mounds on the hillside back of the Cottage Hotel showed how faithfully he had executed
his duties as judge and jury since he had taken up his office at the beginning of the "cow
boom" of Ellisville.  His right hand had found somewhat to do, and he had done it with his might.

Ellisville was near the zenith of its bad eminence.  The entire country had gone broad-horn.
Money being free, whisky was not less so.  The bar of the Cottage was lined perpetually.  Wild
men from the range rode their horses up the steps and into the bar-room, demanding to be served
as they sat in the saddle, as gentlemen should.  Glass was too tempting to the six-shooters
of these enthusiasts, and the barkeeper begged the question by stowing away the fragments of
his mirror and keeping most of his bottles out of sight.  More than once he was asked to hold
up a bottle of whisky so that some cow-puncher might prove his skill by shooting the neck off
from the flask.  The bartender was taciturn and at times glum, but his face was the only one
at the bar that showed any irritation or sadness.  This railroad town was a bright, new thing
for the horsemen of the trail--a very joyous thing.  No funeral could check their hilarity;
no whisky could daunt their throats, long seared with alkali.

It was notorious that after the civil war human life was held very cheap all over America,
it having been seen how small a thing is a man, how little missed may be a million men taken
bodily from the population.  Nowhere was life cheaper than on the frontier, and at no place
on that frontier of less value than at this wicked little city. Theft was unknown, nor was
murder recognised by that name, always being referred to as a "killing."  Of these "killings"
there were very many.

The sheriff of Ellisville looked thoughtful as he tested the machinery of the law.  He had
a warrant for a new bad man who had come up from the Indian nations, and who had celebrated
his first day in town by shooting two men who declined to get off the sidewalk, so that he
could ride his horse more comfortably there.  The sheriff left the warrant on the table, as
was his custom, this paper being usually submitted with the corpse at the inquest.  The sheriff
hummed a tune as he cleaned his revolver.  He was the law.

Bill Watson, the sheriff of Ellisville, was a heavily built man, sandy-haired, red-mustached,
and solid.  His legs were bowed and his carriage awkward.  He had thick, clumsy-looking fingers,
whose appearance belied their deftness.  Bill Watson had gone through the Quantrell raid in
his time.  It was nothing to him when he was to be killed.  Such a man is careful in his shooting,
because he is careless of being shot, having therefore a vast advantage over the desperado
of two or three victims, who does not yet accept the fact that his own days are numbered. 
The only trouble in regard to this new bad man from below was that his mental attitude on this
point was much the same as that of Sheriff Bill Watson.  Therefore the sheriff was extremely
careful about the oiling of the cylinder.

The great cattle drive was at its height.  Buyers from the territorial ranges of the North
and Northwest, now just beginning to open up, bid in market against the men from the markets
of the East.  Prices advanced rapidly.  Men carried thousands of dollars in the pockets of
their greasy "chaps."  Silver was no longer counted.  There were hardware stores which sold
guns and harness-shops which sold saddles. There were twoscore saloons which held overflow
meetings, accommodating those whom the Cottage bar would not hold.  There were three barber-shops,
to which went only the very weary.  The corral of the Cottage, where the drovers stopped, was
large enough to hold two hundred horses, with comfortable space for roping, and the snubbing
post was grooved with the wear of many ropes.  The central street needed no paving, for it
was worn hard as flint.  Long rows of cattle chutes lined the railroad yards, whence came continuous
din of bellowing, crowding, maddened cattle, handled with ease and a certain exultation by
men who had studied nothing but this thing.  Horsemen clattered up and down the street day
and night--riding, whether drunk or sober, with the incomparable confidence of the greatest
horse country the world has ever known.  Everywhere was the bustle of a unique commerce, mingled
with a colossal joy of life.  The smokes from the dugouts and shacks now began to grow still
more numerous in the region round about, but there were not many homes, because there were
not many women. In the meantime the smith had carried the cap to the castle, and bade a servant belonging
to the knight's youngest daughter bear it to her mistress. But when the girl's eyes fell on
it, she cried out:'He speaks false; and if he does not bring me the
man who really made the cap I will hang him on the tree beside my
window.'The servant was filled with fear at her words, and hastened
and told the smith, who ran as fast as he could to seek for Ian.

And when he found him and brought him into the castle, the girl was first struck dumb with joy;
then she declared that she would marry nobody else.

At this some one fetched to her the knight of Grianaig, and when Ian
had told his tale, he vowed that the maiden was right, and that his
elder daughters should never wed with men who had not only taken glory
to themselves which did not belong to them, but had left the real
doer of the deeds to his fate.

And the wedding guests said that the knight had spoken well; and the two elder brothers were fain
to leave the country, for no one would converse with them. The Fox and the Wolf [From Tales of
the West Highlands.] At the foot of some high mountains there was, once upon a time, a small
village, and a little way off two roads met, one of them going to the east and the other to the
west.

The villagers were quiet, hard-working folk, who toiled in the fields all day, and in the evening
set out for home when the bell began to ring in the little church.

In the summer mornings they led out their flocks to pasture, and
were happy and contented from sunrise to sunset.

One summer night, when a round full moon shone down upon the white
road, a great wolf came trotting round the corner.'I positively must
get a good meal before I go back to my den,'he said to himself;'it
is nearly a week since I have tasted anything but scraps, though perhaps
no one would think it to look at my figure!

Of course there are plenty of rabbits and hares in the mountains; but indeed one needs to be
a greyhound to catch them, and I am not so young as I was! If I could
only dine off that fox I saw a fortnight ago, curled up into a delicious
hairy ball, I should ask nothing better; I would have eaten her then,
but unluckily her husband was lying beside her, and one knows that
foxes, great and small, run like the wind.

Really it seems as if there was not a living creature left for me to
prey upon but a wolf, and, as the proverb says: "One wolf does not
bite another."

However, let us see what this village can produce. I am as hungry
as a schoolmaster.'Now, while these thoughts were running through
the mind of the wolf, the very fox he had been thinking of was galloping
along the other road.'The whole of this day I have listened to those
village hens clucking till I could bear it no longer,'murmured she
as she bounded along, hardly seeming to touch the ground.'When you
are fond of fowls and eggs it is the sweetest of all music.

As sure as there is a sun in heaven I will have some of them this
night, for I have grown so thin that my very bones rattle, and my
poor babies are crying for food.'And as she spoke she reached a little
plot of grass, where the two roads joined, and flung herself under
a tree to take a little rest, and to settle her plans.

At this moment the wolf came up. At the sight of the fox lying within his grasp his mouth began to
water, but his joy was somewhat checked when he noticed how thin she was. The fox's quick ears
heard the sound of his paws, though they were soft as velvet, and turning her head she said
politely:'Is that you, neighbour? What a strange place to meet in! I hope you are quite well?'' Quite
well as regards my health,'answered the wolf, whose eye glistened greedily,'at
least, as well as one can be when one is very hungry. But what is the
matter with you? A fortnight ago you were as plump as heart could wish!''
I have been ill-- very ill,'replied the fox,'and what you say is quite
true.

A worm is fat in comparison with me.'' He is. Still, you are good enough for me; for "to the
hungry no bread is hard."'' Oh, you are always joking!

I'm sure you are not half as hungry as I!'' That we shall soon see,'cried
the wolf, opening his huge mouth and crouching for a spring.'What
are you doing?'exclaimed the fox, stepping backwards.'What am I doing?

What I am going to do is to make my supper off you, in less time than a cock takes to crow.'' Well, I suppose
you must have your joke,'answered the fox lightly, but never removing
her eye from the wolf, who replied with a snarl which showed all his
teeth:'I don't want to joke, but to eat!'' But surely a person of your
talents must perceive that you might eat me to the very last morsel
and never know that you had swallowed anything at all!'' In this world
the cleverest people are always the hungriest,'replied the wolf.'Ah!
how true that is; but--'' I can't stop to listen to your "buts" and
"yets,"'broke in the wolf rudely;'let us get to the point, and the
point is that I want to eat you and not talk to you.'' Have you no
pity for a poor mother?'asked the fox, putting her tail to her eyes,
but peeping slily out of them all the same.'I am dying of hunger,'answered
the wolf, doggedly;'and you know,'he added with a grin,'that charity
begins at home.'' Quite so,'replied the fox;'it would be unreasonable
of me to object to your satisfying your appetite at my expense.

But if the fox resigns herself to the sacrifice, the mother offers you one last request.'' Then
be quick and don't waste my time, for I can't wait much longer. What is it you want?'' You must know,'said
the fox,'that in this village there is a rich man who makes in the summer enough cheeses to last
him for the whole year, and keeps them in an old well, now dry, in his courtyard. By the well
hang two buckets on a pole that were used, in former days, to draw up water. For many nights
I have crept down to the palace, and have lowered myself in the bucket, bringing home with me enough
cheese to feed the children.

All I beg of you is to come with me, and, instead of hunting chickens and such things, I will make
a good meal off cheese before I die.'' But the cheeses may be all
finished by now?'' If you were only to see the quantities of them!'laughed
the fox.'And even if they were finished, there would always be ME
to eat.'' Well, I will come.

Lead the way, but I warn you that if you try to escape or play any
tricks you are reckoning without your host-- that is to say, without
my legs, which are as long as yours!'All was silent in the village,
and not a light was to be seen but that of the moon, which shone bright
and clear in the sky.

The wolf
and the fox crept softly along, when suddenly they stopped and looked
at each other; a savoury smell of frying bacon reached their noses,
and reached the noses of the sleeping dogs, who began to bark greedily.'Is
it safe to go on, think you?'asked the wolf in a whisper.

And the fox shook her head.'Not while the dogs are barking,'said
she;'someone might come out to see if anything was the matter.'And
she signed to the wolf to curl himself up in the shadow beside her.

In about half an hour the dogs grew tired of barking, or perhaps
the bacon was eaten up and there was no smell to excite them.

Then the wolf and the fox jumped up, and hastened
to the foot of the wall.'I am lighter than he is,'thought the fox
to herself,'and perhaps if I make haste I can get a start, and jump
over the wall on the other side before he manages to spring over this
one.'And she quickened her pace.

But if the wolf could not run he could jump, and with one bound he
was beside his companion.'What were you going to do, comrade?'' Oh,
nothing,'replied the fox, much vexed at the failure of her plan.'I
think if I were to take a bit out of your haunch you would jump better,'said
the wolf, giving a snap at her as he spoke.

The fox drew back uneasily.'Be careful, or I shall scream,'she snarled. And the wolf, understanding
all that might happen if the fox carried out her threat, gave a signal
to his companion to leap on the wall, where he immediately followed
her.

Once on the top they crouched down and looked about them.

Not a creature was to be seen in the courtyard, and in the furthest
corner from the house stood the well, with its two buckets suspended
from a pole, just as the fox had described it.

The two thieves dragged themselves noiselessly along the wall till
they were opposite the well, and by stretching out her neck as far
as it would go the fox was able to make out that there was only very
little water in the bottom, but just enough to reflect the moon, big,
and round and yellow.'How lucky!'cried she to the wolf.'There is a
huge cheese about the size of a mill wheel.

Look!
look! did you ever see anything so beautiful!'' Never!'answered the
wolf, peering over in his turn, his eyes glistening greedily, for
he imagined that the moon's reflection in the water was really a cheese.'And
now, unbeliever, what have you to say?'and the fox laughed gently.'That
you are a woman-- I mean a fox-- of your word,'replied the wolf.'Well,
then, go down in that bucket and eat your fill,'said the fox.'Oh,
is that your game?'asked the wolf, with a grin.'No! no! The person
who goes down in the bucket will be you!

And if you don't go down your head will go without you!'' Of course I will go down, with the greatest
pleasure,'answered the fox, who had expected the wolf's reply.'And
be sure you don't eat all the cheese, or it will be the worse for
you,'continued the wolf.

But the fox looked up at him with tears in her eyes.'Farewell, suspicious one!'she said sadly.
And climbed into the bucket.

In an instant she had reached the bottom of the well, and found that
the water was not deep enough to cover her legs.'Why, it is larger
and richer than I thought,'cried she, turning towards the wolf, who
was leaning over the wall of the well.'Then be quick and bring it
up,'commanded the wolf.'How can I, when it weighs more than I do?'asked
the fox.'If it is so heavy bring it in two bits, of course,'said he.'But
I have no knife,'answered the fox.'You will have to come down yourself,
and we will carry it up between us.'' And how am I to come down?'inquired
the wolf.'Oh, you are really very stupid!

Get into the other bucket that
is nearly over your head.'The wolf looked up, and saw the bucket hanging
there, and with some difficulty he climbed into it.

As he weighed
at least four times as much as the fox the bucket went down with
a jerk, and the other bucket, in which the fox was seated, came to
the surface.

As soon as he understood what was happening, the wolf began to speak
like an angry wolf, but was a little comforted when he remembered
that the cheese still remained to him.'But where is the cheese?'he
asked of the fox, who in her turn was leaning over the parapet watching
his proceedings with a smile.'The cheese?'answered the fox;'why I
am taking it home to my babies, who are too young to get food for
themselves.'' Ah, traitor!'cried the wolf, howling with rage.

But the fox was not there to hear this insult, for she had gone off to
a neighbouring fowl-house, where she had noticed some fat young chickens
the day before.'Perhaps I did treat him rather badly,'she said to
herself.'But it seems getting cloudy, and if there should be heavy
rain the other bucket will fill and sink to the bottom, and his will
go up-- at least it may!'How Ian Direach Got the Blue Falcon [From
Cuentos Populares, por Antonio de Trueba.] Long ago a king and queen
ruled over the islands of the west, and they had one son, whom they
loved dearly.

The boy grew up to be tall and strong
and handsome, and he could run and shoot, and swim and dive better
than any lad of his own age in the country.

Besides, he knew how to sail about, and sing songs to the harp, and
during the winter evenings, when everyone was gathered round the
huge hall fire shaping bows or weaving cloth, Ian Direach would tell
them tales of the deeds of his fathers.

So the time
slipped by till Ian was almost a man, as they reckoned men in those
days, and then his mother the queen died.

There was great mourning throughout all the isles, and the boy and
his father mourned her bitterly also; but before the new year came
the king had married another wife, and seemed to have forgotten his
old one.

Only
Ian remembered.

On a morning when the leaves were yellow in the trees of the glen, Ian slung his bow over his shoulder,
and filling his quiver with arrows, went on to the hill in search
of game.

But not a bird was to be seen anywhere, till at length a blue falcon flew past him, and raising
his bow he took aim at her. His eye was straight and his hand steady, but the falcon's flight
was swift, and he only shot a feather from her wing.

As the sun was now low over the sea he put the feather in his game bag, and set out homewards.'Have
you brought me much game to-day?'asked his stepmother as he entered
the hall.'Nought save this,'he answered, handing her the feather of
the blue falcon, which she held by the tip and gazed at silently.

Then she turned to Ian and said:'I am setting it on you as crosses
and as spells, and as the fall of the year!

That you may always be cold, and wet and dirty, and that your shoes may ever have pools in them, till
you bring me hither the blue falcon on which that feather grew.'' If
it is spells you are laying I can lay them too,'answered Ian Direach;'and
you shall stand with one foot on the great house and another on the
castle, till I come back again, and your face shall be to the wind,
from wheresoever it shall blow.'Then he went away to seek the bird,
as his stepmother bade him; and, looking homewards from the hill,
he saw the queen standing with one foot on the great house, and the
other on the castle, and her face turned towards whatever tempest
should blow.

On he journeyed, over hills, and through rivers till he reached a wide plain, and never a glimpse
did he catch of the falcon.

Darker
and darker it grew, and the small birds were seeking their nests,
and at length Ian Direach could see no more, and he lay down under
some bushes and sleep came to him.

And in his dream a soft nose touched him, and a warm body curled up
beside him, and a low voice whispered to him:'Fortune is against
you, Ian Direach; I have but the cheek and the hoof of a sheep to
give you, and with these you must be content.'With that Ian Direach
awoke, and beheld Gille Mairtean the fox.

Between them they kindled a fire, and ate their supper.

Then Gille Mairtean the fox bade Ian Direach lie down as before,
and sleep till morning.

And in the morning, when he awoke, Gille Mairtean said:'The falcon that you seek is in the keeping
of the Giant of the Five Heads, and the Five Necks, and the Five Humps.
I will show you the way to his house, and I counsel you to do his
bidding, nimbly and cheerfully, and, above all, to treat his birds
kindly, for in this manner he may give you his falcon to feed and
care for.

And when this happens, wait till the giant is out of his house; then throw a cloth over the falcon
and bear her away with you. Only see that not one of her feathers touches anything within the house,
or evil will befall you.'' I thank you for your counsel,'spake Ian
Direach,'and I will be careful to follow it.'Then he took the path
to the giant's house.'Who is there?'cried the giant, as someone knocked
loudly on the door of his house.'One who seeks work as a servant,'answered
Ian Direach.'And what can you do?'asked the giant again.'I can feed
birds and tend pigs; I can feed and milk a cow, and also goats and
sheep, if you have any of these,'replied Ian Direach.'Then enter,
for I have great need of such a one,'said the giant.

So Ian Direach entered, and tended so well and carefully all the birds and beasts, that the giant
was better satisfied than ever he had been, and at length he thought that he might even be
trusted to feed the falcon. And the heart of Ian was glad, and he tended the blue falcon till
his fathers shone like the sky, and the giant was well pleased; and
one day he said to him:'For long my brothers on the other side of
the mountain have besought me to visit them, but never could I go
for fear of my falcon.

Now I think I can leave her with you for one day, and before nightfall
I shall be back again.'Scarcely was the giant out of sight next morning
when Ian Direach seized the falcon, and throwing a cloth over her
head hastened with her to the door.

But the rays of the sun pierced through the thickness of the cloth,
and as they passed the doorpost she gave a spring, and the tip of
one of her feathers touched the post, which gave a scream, and brought
the giant back in three strides.

Ian Direach trembled as he saw him; but the giant only said:'If you wish for my falcon you must first
bring me the White Sword of Light that is in the house of the Big
Women of Dhiurradh.'' And where do they live?'asked Ian.

But the giant answered:'Ah, that is for you to discover.'And Ian dared say no more, and hastened
down to the waste. There, as he hoped, he met his friend Gille Mairtean the fox, who bade him eat
his supper and lie down to sleep.

And when he had wakened next morning the fox said to him:'Let us
go down to the shore of the sea.'And to the shore of the sea they
went.

And after they had reached the shore, and beheld the sea stretching before them, and the
isle of Dhiurradh in the midst of it, the soul of Ian sank, and he turned to Gille Mairtean and
asked why he had brought him thither, for the giant, when he had sent him, had known full well
that without a boat he could never find the Big Women.'Do not be cast down,'answered the fox,'it
is quite easy! I will change myself into a boat, and you shall go on board me, and I will carry
you over the sea to the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh.

Tell them that you are skilled in brightening silver and gold, and
in the end they will take you as servant, and if you are careful to
please them they will give you the White Sword of Light to make bright
and shining.

But when you seek to steal it, take heed that its sheath touches
nothing inside the house, or ill will befall you.'So Ian Direach did
all things as the fox had told him, and the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh
took him for their servant, and for six weeks he worked so hard that
his seven mistresses said to each other:'Never has a servant had the
skill to make all bright and shining like this one.

Let us give him the White Sword of Light to polish like the rest.'Then
they brought forth the White Sword of Light from the iron closet where
it hung, and bade him rub it till he could see his face in the shining
blade; and he did so.

But one day, when the Seven Big Women were out of the way, he bethought him that the moment had come
for him to carry off the sword, and, replacing it in its sheath,
he hoisted it on his shoulder.

But just as he was passing through the door the tip of the sheath
touched it, and the door gave a loud shriek.

And the Big Women heard it, and came running back, and took the sword
from him, and said:'If it is our sword you want, you must first bring
us the bay colt of the King of Erin.'Humbled and ashamed, Ian Direach
left the house, and sat by the side of the sea, and soon Gille Mairtean
the fox came to him.'Plainly I see that you have taken no heed to
my words, Ian Direach,'spoke the fox.'But eat first, and yet once
more will I help you.'At these words the heart returned again to Ian
Direach, and he gathered sticks and made a fire and ate with Gille
Mairtean the fox, and slept on the sand.

At dawn next morning Gille Mairtean said to Ian Direach:'I will change
myself into a ship, and will bear you across the seas to Erin, to
the land where dwells the king.

And you shall offer yourself to serve in his stable, and to tend his horses, till at length so
well content is he, that he gives you the bay colt to wash and brush.

But when you run away with her see that nought except the soles of her hoofs touch anything within
the palace gates, or it will go ill with you.'After he had thus counselled
Ian Direach, the fox changed himself into a ship, and set sail for
Erin.

And the king of that country gave into Ian Direach's hands the care of his horses, and never before
did their skins shine so brightly or was their pace so swift.

And the king was well pleased, and at the end of a month he sent
for Ian and said to him:'You have given me faithful service, and now
I will entrust you with the most precious thing that my kingdom holds.'And
when he had spoken, he led Ian Direach to the stable where stood the
bay colt.

And Ian rubbed her and fed her, and galloped with her all round the country, till he could leave one
wind behind him and catch the other which was in front.'I am going
away to hunt,'said the king one morning while he was watching Ian
tend the bay colt in her stable.'The deer have come down from the
hill, and it is time for me to give them chase.'Then he went away;
and when he was no longer in sight, Ian Direach led the bay colt out
of the stable, and sprang on her back.

But as they rode through the gate, which stood between the palace and the outer world, the colt swished
her tail against the post, which shrieked loudly.

In a moment the king came running up, and he seized the colt's bridle.'If
you want my bay colt, you must first bring me the daughter of the
king of the Franks.'With slow steps went Ian Direach down to the shore
where Gille Mairtean the fox awaited him.'Plainly I see that you have
not done as I bid you, nor will you ever do it,'spoke Gille Mairtean
the fox;'but I will help you yet again for a third time I will change
myself into a ship, and we will sail to France.'And to France they
sailed, and, as he was the ship, the Gille Mairtean sailed where he
would, and ran himself into the cleft of a rock, high on to the land.

Then, he commanded Ian Direach to go up to the king's palace, saying
that he had been wrecked, that his ship was made fast in a rock, and
that none had been saved but himself only.

Ian Direach listened to the words of the fox, and he told a tale
so pitiful, that the king and queen, and the princess their daughter,
all came out to hear it.

And when they had heard, nought would please them except to go down to the shore and visit the ship,
which by now was floating, for the tide was up.

Torn and battered was she, as if she had passed through many dangers,
yet music of a wondrous sweetness poured forth from within.'Bring
hither a boat,'cried the princess,'that I may go and see for myself
the harp that gives forth such music.'And a boat was brought, and
Ian Direach stepped in to row it to the side of the ship.

To the further side he rowed, so that none could see, and when he
helped the princess on board he gave a push to the boat, so that she
could not get back to it again.
Outside the building stood crowds, now and then increased or lessened by those who passed in
or out of the room where the court was in session.  These interested spectators were for the
most part dark, sunburned men, wearing wide hats and narrow boots with spurs.  They all were
armed.  Leaning against the sides of the mangers, or resting a hand upon the shoulders of another,
they gazed calmly at the bar of justice.  The attitude of Ellisville was one of sardonic calm.
As a function, as a show, this trial might go on.

The trial did go on, rapidly, without quibbling, indeed without much regard for the formalities
of the law.  The jury had been selected before Franklin made his appearance, and he was given
to understand that this jury was good enough for him, and was the one before which this prisoner
should be tried.  A formal motion for the discharge of the prisoner was overruled.  Without
much delay the prosecuting attorney arose to present his charge.

"Yo' Honah," said the attorney for the State, arising and striking an attitude learned in earlier
forensic days--"yo Honah, an' gentlemen, I rise to present to you, an' to push to the ultimate
penalty of the law, a case of the most serious, the most heinyus crime, committed by the most
desperate and dangerous criminal, that has thus far ever disturbed the peaceful course of ouah
quiet little community.  There he sets befo' you," he cried, suddenly raising his voice and
pointing a forefinger at the prisoner, who sat smiling amiably.  "There he sets, the hardened
and self-confessed criminal, guilty of the foulest crime upon the calendar of ouah law.  A
murderer, gentlemen, a murderer with red hands an' with the brand of Cain upon his brow!  This
man, this fiend, killed ouah fellow-citizen Calvin Greathouse--he brutally murdered him.  Not
content with murder, he attempted to destroy his body with fiah, seekin' thus to wipe out the
record of his crime. For a moment Makoma was helpless, but remembering the power of the flame-spirit
which had entered into him, he breathed a fiery breath upon the giant's hair and cut himself
free.

As Chin-debou Mau-giri leaned forward to seize him the hero flung
his sack Woronowu over the giant's slippery head, and gripping his
iron hammer, struck him again; this time the blow alighted upon the
dry sack and Chin-debou Mau-giri fell dead.

When the four giants returned at sunset with the poles, they rejoiced to find that Makoma had overcome
the fever-spirit, and they feasted on the roast venison till far into the night; but in the morning,
when they awoke, Makoma was already warming his hands to the fire,
and his face was gloomy.'In the darkness of the night, O my friends,'he
said presently,'the white spirits of my fathers came upon me and spoke,
saying: "Get thee hence, Makoma, for thou shalt have no rest until
thou hast found and fought with Sakatirina, who had five heads, and
is very great and strong; so take leave of thy friends, for thou must
go alone."'Then the giants were very sad, and bewailed the loss of
their hero; but Makoma comforted them, and gave back to each the gifts
he had taken from them.

Then bidding them'Farewell,'he went on his way. Makoma travelled far towards the west; over rough
mountains and water-logged morasses, fording deep rivers, and tramping for days across dry deserts
where most men would have died, until at length he arrived at a hut standing near some large
peaks, and inside the hut were two beautiful women.'Greeting!'said
the hero.'Is this the country of Sakatirina of five heads, whom I
am seeking?'' We greet you, O Great One!'answered the women.'We are
the wives of Sakatirina; your search is at an end, for there stands
he whom you seek!'And they pointed to what Makoma had thought were
two tall mountain peaks.'Those are his legs,'they said;'his body you
cannot see, for it is hidden in the clouds.'Makoma was astonished
when he beheld how tall was the giant; but, nothing daunted, he went
forward until he reached one of Sakatirina's legs, which he struck
heavily with Nu-endo.

Nothing happened, so he hit again and then again until, presently, he heard a tired, far-away
voice saying:'Who is it that scratches my feet?'And Makoma shouted as loud as he could, answering:'It
is I, Makoma, who is called "Greater"!'And he listened, but there
was no answer.

Then Makoma collected all the dead brushwood and trees that he could find, and making an enormous
pile round the giant's legs, set a light to it. This time the giant spoke; his voice was very
terrible, for it was the rumble of thunder in the clouds.'Who is it,'he said,'making that fire smoulder
around my feet?'' It is I, Makoma!'shouted the hero.'And I have come
from far away to see thee, O Sakatirina, for the spirits of my fathers
bade me go seek and fight with thee, lest I should grow fat, and weary
of myself.'There was silence for a while, and then the giant spoke
softly:'It is good, O Makoma!'he said.'For I too have grown weary.

There is no man so great as I, therefore I am all alone.

Guard
thyself!'and bending suddenly he seized the hero in his hands and dashed him upon the ground. And
lo! instead of death, Makoma had found life, for he sprang to his feet mightier in strength
and stature than before, and rushing in he gripped the giant by the waist and wrestled with
him.

Hour by hour they fought, and mountains rolled beneath their feet like pebbles in a flood; now Makoma would
break away, and summoning up his strength, strike the giant with Nu-endo his iron hammer, and Sakatirina
would pluck up the mountains and hurl them upon the hero, but neither one could slay the other.
At last, upon the second day, they grappled so strongly that they
could not break away; but their strength was failing, and, just as
the sun was sinking, they fell together to the ground, insensible.

In the morning when they awoke, Mulimo the Great Spirit was standing by them; and he said:'O Makoma
and Sakatirina!

Ye are heroes so great that no man may come against you. Therefore ye will leave the world and take
up your home with me in the clouds.'And as he spake the heroes became
invisible to the people of the Earth, and were no more seen among
them.

The Magic Mirror [Native Rhodesian Tale.] From the Senna A long, long while ago, before ever the
White Men were seen in Senna, there lived a man called Gopani-Kufa.

One day, as he was out hunting, he came upon a strange sight. An enormous python had caught an
antelope and coiled itself around it; the antelope, striking out in
despair with its horns, had pinned the python's neck to a tree, and
so deeply had its horns sunk in the soft wood that neither creature
could get away.'Help!'cried the antelope,'for I was doing no harm,
yet I have been caught, and would have been eaten, had I not defended
myself.'' Help me,'said the python,'for I am Insato, King of all the
Reptiles, and will reward you well!'Gopani-Kufa considered for a moment,
then stabbing the antelope with his assegai, he set the python free.'I
thank you,'said the python;'come back here with the new moon, when
I shall have eaten the antelope, and I will reward you as I promised.'' Yes,'said
the dying antelope,'he will reward you, and lo! your reward shall
be your own undoing!'Gopani-Kufa went back to his kraal, and with
the new moon he returned again to the spot where he had saved the
python.

Insato was lying upon
the ground, still sleepy from the effects of his huge meal, and when
he saw the man he thanked him again, and said:'Come with me now to
Pita, which is my own country, and I will give you what you will of
all my possessions.'Gopani-Kufa at first was afraid, thinking of what
the antelope had said, but finally he consented and followed Insato
into the forest.

For several days they travelled, and at last they came to a hole leading deep into the earth.
It was not very wide, but large enough to admit a man.'Hold on to my tail,'said Insato,'and I
will go down first, drawing you after me.'The man did so, and Insato
entered. Down, down, down they went for days, all the while getting
deeper and deeper into the earth, until at last the darkness ended
and they dropped into a beautiful country; around them grew short
green grass, on which browsed herds of cattle and sheep and goats.

In the distance Gopani-Kufa saw a great collection of houses all square, built of stone and
very tall, and their roofs were shining with gold and burnished iron. Gopani-Kufa turned to Insato,
but found, in the place of the python, a man, strong and handsome, with the great snake's skin wrapped
round him for covering; and on his arms and neck were rings of pure
gold.

The man smiled.'I am Insato,'said he,'but in my own country I take man's shape-- even as you see
me-- for this is Pita, the land over which I am king.'He then took
Gopani-Kufa by the hand and led him towards the town.

On
the way they passed rivers in which men and women were bathing and fishing and boating; and farther
on they came to gardens covered with heavy crops of rice and maize, and many other grains which
Gopani-Kufa did not even know the name of. And as they passed, the people who were singing at their
work in the fields, abandoned their labours and saluted Insato with
delight, bringing also palm wine and green cocoanuts for refreshment,
as to one returned from a long journey.'These are my children!'said
Insato, waving his hand towards the people.

Gopani-Kufa was much astonished at all that he saw, but he said nothing.

Presently they came to the town; everything here, too, was beautiful,
and everything that a man might desire he could obtain.

Even the grains of dust in the streets were of gold and silver.

Insato conducted Gopani-Kufa to the palace, and showing him his rooms,
and the maidens who would wait upon him, told him that they would
have a great feast that night, and on the morrow he might name his
choice of the riches of Pita and it should be given him.

Then
he was away. Now Gopani-Kufa had a wasp called Zengi-mizi. Zengi-mizi was not an ordinary wasp, for
the spirit of the father of Gopani-Kufa had entered it, so that it was exceedingly wise. In times
of doubt Gopani-Kufa always consulted the wasp as to what had better be done, so on this occasion
he took it out of the little rush basket in which he carried it,
saying:'Zengi-mizi, what gift shall I ask of Insato to-morrow when
he would know the reward he shall bestow on me for saving his life?'' Biz-z-z,'hummed
Zengi-mizi,'ask him for Sipao the Mirror.'And it flew back into its
basket.

Gopani-Kufa was astonished at this answer; but knowing that the words of Zengi-mizi were true
words, he determined to make the request.

So that night they feasted, and on the morrow Insato came to Gopani-Kufa
and, giving him greeting joyfully, he said:'Now, O my friend, name
your choice amongst my possessions and you shall have it!'' O king!'answered
Gopani-Kufa,'out of all your possessions I will have the Mirror, Sipao.'The
king started.'O friend, Gopani-Kufa,'he said,'ask anything but that!

I did not think
that you would request that which is most precious to me.'' Let me
think over it again then, O king,'said Gopani-Kufa,'and to-morrow
I will let you know if I change my mind.'But the king was still much
troubled, fearing the loss of Sipao, for the mirror had magic powers,
so that he who owned it had but to ask and his wish would be fulfilled;
to it Insato owed all that he possessed.

As
soon as the king left him, Gopani-Kufa again took Zengi-mizi, out of his basket.'Zengi-mizi,'he
said,'the king seems loth to grant my request for the Mirror-- is
there not some other thing of equal value for which I might ask?'And
the wasp answered:'There is nothing in the world, O Gopani-Kufa, which
is of such value as this Mirror, for it is a Wishing Mirror, and accomplishes
the desires of him who owns it.

If the king hesitates,
go to him the next day, and the day after, and in the end he will
bestow the Mirror upon you, for you saved his life.'And it was even
so.

For three days Gopani-Kufa returned the same answer
to the king, and, at last, with tears in his eyes, Insato gave him
the Mirror, which was of polished iron, saying:'Take Sipao, then,
O Gopani-Kufa, and may thy wishes come true.

Go back now to thine own country; Sipao will show you the way.'Gopani-Kufa was greatly rejoiced, and,
taking farewell of the king, said to the Mirror:'Sipao, Sipao, I wish to be back upon the Earth
again!'Instantly he found himself standing upon the upper earth;
but, not knowing the spot, he said again to the Mirror:'Sipao, Sipao,
I want the path to my own kraal!'And behold! right before him lay
the path!

When he arrived home he found his wife and daughter mourning for him,
for they thought that he had been eaten by lions; but he comforted
them, saying that while following a wounded antelope he had missed
his way and had wandered for a long time before he had found the path
again.

That night he asked Zengi-mizi, in whom sat the spirit of his father, what he had better ask
Sipao for next?'Biz-z-z,'said the wasp,'would you not like to be as great a chief as Insato?'And
Gopani-Kufa smiled, and took the Mirror and said to it:'Sipao, Sipao,
I want a town as great as that of Insato, the King of Pita; and I
wish to be chief over it!'Then all along the banks of the Zambesi
river, which flowed near by, sprang up streets of stone buildings,
and their roofs shone with gold and burnished iron like those in Pita;
and in the streets men and women were walking, and young boys were
driving out the sheep and cattle to pasture; and from the river came
shouts and laughter from the young men and maidens who had launched
their canoes and were fishing.

And when the people of the new town beheld Gopani-Kufa they rejoiced greatly and hailed him
as chief. Gopani-Kufa was now as powerful as Insato the King of the Reptiles had been, and he
and his family moved into the palace that stood high above the other buildings right in the middle of
the town. His wife was too astonished at all these wonders to ask any questions, but his daughter
Shasasa kept begging him to tell her how he had suddenly become so
great; so at last he revealed the whole secret, and even entrusted
Sipao the Mirror to her care, saying:'It will be safer with you, my
daughter, for you dwell apart; whereas men come to consult me on affairs
of state, and the Mirror might be stolen.'Then Shasasa took the Magic
Mirror and hid it beneath her pillow, and after that for many years
Gopani-Kufa ruled his people both well and wisely, so that all men
loved him, and never once did he need to ask Sipao to grant him a
wish.

Now it happened that, after many years, when the hair of Gopani-Kufa was turning grey with age, there
came white men to that country. Up the Zambesi they came, and they
fought long and fiercely with Gopani-Kufa; but, because of the power
of the Magic Mirror, he beat them, and they fled to the sea-coast.

Chief among them was one Rei, a man of much cunning, who sought to
discover whence sprang Gopani-Kufa's power.

So one day he called to him a trusty servant named Butou, and said:'Go
you to the town and find out for me what is the secret of its greatness.'And
Butou, dressing himself in rags, set out, and when he came to Gopani-Kufa's
town he asked for the chief; and the people took him into the presence
of Gopani-Kufa.

When the white man saw him he humbled himself, and said:'O Chief! take pity on me, for I have
no home! When Rei marched against you I alone stood apart, for I knew that all the strength
of the Zambesi lay in your hands, and because I would not fight against
you he turned me forth into the forest to starve!'And Gopani-Kufa
believed the white man's story, and he took him in and feasted him,
and gave him a house.

In this way the end came. For the heart of Shasasa, the daughter
of Gopani-Kufa, went forth to Butou the traitor, and from her he learnt
the secret of the Magic Mirror. One night, when all the town slept,
he felt beneath her pillow and, finding the Mirror, he stole it and
fled back with it to Rei, the chief of the white men.

So it befell that, one day, as Gopani-Kufa was gazing up at the river from a window of the palace
he again saw the war-canoes of the white men; and at the sight his spirit misgave him.'Shasasa!
my daughter!'he cried wildly,'go fetch me the mirror, for the white
men are at hand.'' Woe is me, my father!'she sobbed.'The Mirror is
gone!

For I loved Butou the traitor, and he has stolen Sipao from me!'Then
Gopani-Kufa calmed himself, and drew out Zengi-mizi from its rush
basket.'O spirit of my father!'he said,'what now shall I do?'' O Gopani-Kufa!'hummed
the wasp,'there is nothing now that can be done, for the words of
the antelope which you slew are being fulfilled.'' Alas!

I am an old man-- I had forgotten!'cried the chief.'The words of the antelope were true words--
my reward shall be my undoing-- they are being fulfilled!'Then the white
men fell upon the people of Gopani-Kufa and slew them together with
the chief and his daughter Shasasa; and since then all the power
of the Earth has rested in the hands of the white men, for they have
in their possession Sipao, the Magic Mirror.

Story of the King Who Would See Paradise Once upon a time there was
king who, one day out hunting, came upon a fakeer in a lonely place
in the mountains.

The fakeer was seated on a little old bedstead reading the Koran,
with his patched cloak thrown over his shoulders.

The king asked him what he was reading; and he said he was reading
about Paradise, and praying that he might be worthy to enter there.

Then they began to talk, and, by-and-bye, the king asked the fakeer
if he could show him a glimpse of Paradise, for he found it very difficult
to believe in what he could not see. The fakeer replied that he was
asking a very difficult, and perhaps a very dangerous, thing; but that
he would pray for him, and perhaps he might be able to do it; only
he warned the king both against the dangers of his unbelief, and against
the curiosity which prompted him to ask this thing.

However, the king was not to
be turned from his purpose, and he promised the fakeer always to
provided him with food, if he, in return, would pray for him.

To this the fakeer agreed, and so they parted. Time went on, and the
king always sent the old fakeer his food according to his promise;
but, whenever he sent to ask him when he was going to show him Paradise,
the fakeer always replied:'Not yet, not yet!'After a year or two had
passed by, the king heard one day that the fakeer was very ill-- indeed,
he was believed to be dying.

"We won't take up that just now, Curly," said Franklin.

"Well, this here shorely is the funniest layout I ever did see," said Curly, somewhat injured.
"A feller can't say a d----d thing but only jest what you all want him to say.  Now, say--"

"Yes, but--" began Franklin, fearing that he might meet trouble with this witness even as the
prosecutor had, and seeing the latter smiling behind his hand in recognition of this fact.

"Now, say," insisted Curly, "if you want something they ain't none o' you said a word about
yet, I'll tell you something.  You see, Juan, he had a sister, and this here Cal Greathouse, he--"

"I object, yo' Honah!  I object!" cried the State's attorney, springing to his feet.  "This
is bringin' the dignity o' the law into ridicule, sah! into ridicule!  I object!"

"Er, ah-h-h!" yawned the judge, suddenly sitting up, "'Journ court, Mr. Clerk!  We will set
to-morrow mornin' at the same place, at nine o'clock.--Mr. Sheriff, take charge of the prisoner.--Where
is the sheriff, Mr. Clerk?"

"Please the Court," said the prosecuting attorney, "Sheriff Watson is not here to-day.  He
is lyin' sick out to his ranch.  He was injured, yo' Honah, in arrestin' Ike Anderson, and
he has not yet recovered."

"Well, who is in charge of this prisoner?" said the Court.  "There ought to be some one to
take care of him."

"I reckon I am, Judge," said Curly.  "He is sort o' stayin' with me while Bill's under the
weather."

"Well, take him in charge, some one, and have him here in the morning."

"All right, judge," said Curly quietly, "I'll take care of him."

He beckoned to Juan, and the giant rose and followed after him, still smiling and pleased at
what to him also was a novel show.

It was three o'clock of the afternoon. 'Didn't I say that fish would be delicious?'she cried; and plunging
her spoon into the dish the girl helped herself to a large piece. But the instant it touched her mouth
a cold shiver ran through her. Her head seemed to flatten, and her eyes to look oddly round
the corners; her legs and her arms were stuck to her sides, and
she gasped wildly for breath.

With a mighty bound she sprang through the window and fell into the
river, where she soon felt better, and was able to swim to the sea,
which was close by.

No sooner had she arrived there than the sight of her sad face attracted the notice of some
of the other fishes, and they pressed round her, begging her to tell
them her story.'I am not a fish at all,'said the new-comer, swallowing
a great deal of salt water as she spoke; for you cannot learn how
to be a proper fish all in a moment.'I am not a fish at all, but a
girl; at least I was a girl a few minutes ago, only--'And she ducked
her head under the waves so that they should not see her crying.'Only
you did not believe that the fish you caught had power to carry out
its threat,'said an old tunny.'Well, never mind, that has happened
to all of us, and it really is not a bad life.

Cheer up and come with us and see our queen, who lives in a palace that is much more beautiful than
any your queens can boast of.'The new fish felt a little afraid of taking such a journey;
but as she was still more afraid of being left alone, she waved her tail in token of consent, and
off they all set, hundreds of them together.

The people on the rocks and in the ships that saw them pass said to each other:'Look what a
splendid shoal!'and had no idea that they were hastening to the queen's palace; but, then,
dwellers on land have so little notion of what goes on in the bottom
of the sea!

Certainly the little new fish had none. She had watched jelly-fish and nautilus swimming a little
way below the surface, and beautiful coloured sea-weeds floating
about; but that was all.

Now, when she plunged deeper her eyes fell upon strange things. Dead
men's bones were there also, and long white creatures who had never
seen the light, for they mostly dwelt in the clefts of rocks where
the sun's rays could not come.

At first our little fish felt as if she were blind also, but by-and-by
she began to make out one object after another in the green dimness,
and by the time she had swum for a few hours all became clear.'Here
we are at last,'cried a big fish, going down into a deep valley, for
the sea has its mountains and valleys just as much as the land.'That
is the palace of the queen of the fishes, and I think you must confess
that the emperor himself has nothing so fine.'' It is beautiful indeed,'gasped
the little fish, who was very tired with trying to swim as fast as
the rest, and beautiful beyond words the palace was.

The walls were made of pale pink coral, worn smooth by the waters, and round the windows were rows
of pearls; the great doors were standing open, and the whole troop
floated into the chamber of audience, where the queen, who was half
a woman after all, was seated on a throne made of a green and blue
shell.'Who are you, and where do you come from?'said she to the little
fish, whom the others had pushed in front.

And in a low, trembling voice, the visitor told her story.'I was once a girl too,'answered the queen,
when the fish had ended;'and my father was the king of a great country. A husband was found for
me, and on my wedding-day my mother placed her crown on my head and told me that as long as
I wore it I should likewise be queen. For many months I was as happy as a girl could be, especially
when I had a little son to play with.

But, one morning, when I was walking in my gardens, there came a giant and snatched the crown
from my head. Holding me fast, he told me that he intended to give the crown to his daughter, and to enchant
my husband the prince, so that he should not know the difference
between us.

Since then she has filled my place and been queen in my stead. As for me, I was so miserable that I threw
myself into the sea, and my ladies, who loved me, declared that they would die too; but,
instead of dying, some wizard, who pitied my fate, turned us all
into fishes, though he allowed me to keep the face and body of a
woman.

And fished we must remain till someone brings me back my crown again!''
I will bring it back if you tell me what to do!'cried the little fish,
who would have promised anything that was likely to carry her up
to earth again.

And the queen answered:'Yes, I will tell you what to do.'She sat silent for a moment, and then
went on:'There is no danger if you will only follow my counsel; and first you must return to earth,
and go up to the top of a high mountain, where the giant has built his castle. You will find him sitting
on the steps weeping for his daughter, who has just died while the
prince was away hunting.

At the last she sent her father my crown by a faithful servant. But I warn you to be careful,
for if he sees you he may kill you.

Therefore I will give you the power to change yourself into any creature that may help you best.
You have only to strike your forehead, and call out its name.'This
time the journey to land seemed much shorter than before, and when
once the fish reached the shore she struck her forehead sharply with
her tail, and cried:'Deer, come to me!'In a moment the small, slimy
body disappeared, and in its place stood a beautiful beast with branching
horns and slender legs, quivering with longing to be gone.

Throwing back her head and snuffing the air, she broke into a run,
leaping easily over the rivers and walls that stood in her way. It
happened that the king's son had been hunting since daybreak, but
had killed nothing, and when the deer crossed his path as he was resting
under a tree he determined to have her.

He flung himself on his horse, which went like the wind, and as the prince had often hunted the forest
before, and knew all the short cuts, he at last came up with the
panting beast.'By your favour let me go, and do not kill me,'said
the deer, turning to the prince with tears in her eyes,'for I have
far to run and much to do.'And as the prince, struck dumb with surprise,
only looked at her, the deer cleared the next wall and was soon out
of sight.'That can't really be a deer,'thought the prince to himself,
reining in his horse and not attempting to follow her.'No deer ever
had eyes like that.

It must be an enchanted maiden, and I will marry her and no other.'So,
turning his horse's head, he rode slowly back to his palace. The deer
reached the giant's castle quite out of breath, and her heart sank
as she gazed at the tall, smooth walls which surrounded it.

Then she plucked up courage and cried:'Ant, come to me!'And in a moment the branching horns
and beautiful shape had vanished, and a tiny brown ant, invisible to all who did not look closely,
was climbing up the walls. It was wonderful how fast she went, that
little creature! The wall must have appeared miles high in comparison
with her own body; yet, in less time than would have seemed possible,
she was over the top and down in the courtyard on the other side.

Here she paused to consider what had best be done next, and looking
about her she saw that one of the walls had a tall tree growing by
it, and in the corner was a window very nearly on a level with the
highest branches of the tree.'Monkey, come to me!'cried the ant; and
before you could turn round a monkey was swinging herself from the
topmost branches into the room where the giant lay snoring.'Perhaps
he will be so frightened at the sight of me that he may die of fear,
and I shall never get the crown,'thought the monkey.'I had better
become something else.'And she called softly:'Parrot, come to me!'Then
a pink and grey parrot hopped up to the giant, who by this time was
stretching himself and giving yawns which shook the castle.

The parrot waited a little, until he was really awake, and then she
said boldly that she had been sent to take away the crown, which was
not his any longer, now his daughter the queen was dead.

On hearing these words the giant leapt out of bed with an angry roar,
and sprang at the parrot in order to wring her neck with his great
hands.

But the bird was too quick for him, and, flying behind his back,
begged the giant to have patience, as her death would be of no use
to him.'That is true,'answered the giant;'but I am not so foolish
as to give you that crown for nothing.

Let me think what I will have in exchange!'And he scratched his huge
head for several minutes, for giants'minds always move slowly.'Ah,
yes, that will do!'exclaimed the giant at last, his face brightening.'You
shall have the crown if you will bring me a collar of blue stones
from the Arch of St. Martin, in the Great City.'Now when the parrot
had been a girl she had often heard of this wonderful arch and the
precious stones and marbles that had been let into it.

It sounded as if it would be a very hard thing to get them away from the building of which they
formed a part, but all had gone well with her so far, and at any rate
she could but try.

So she bowed to the giant, and made her way back to the window where
the giant could not see her.

Then she called quickly:'Eagle, come to me!'Before she had even reached the tree she felt herself
borne up on strong wings ready to carry her to the clouds if she
wished to go there, and seeming a mere speck in the sky, she was swept
along till she beheld the Arch of St. Martin far below, with the rays
of the sun shining on it.

Then she swooped down, and, hiding herself behind a buttress so that she could not be detected from
below, she set herself to dig out the nearest blue stones with her
beak.

It was
even harder work than she had expected; but at last it was done, and
hope arose in her heart. She next drew out a piece of string that she
had found hanging from a tree, and sitting down to rest strung the
stones together.

When the necklace was finished she hung it round her neck, and called:'Parrot,
come to me!'And a little later the pink and grey parrot stood before
the giant.'Here is the necklace you asked for,'said the parrot.

And the eyes of the giant
glistened as he took the heap of blue stones in his hand. But for all
that he was not minded to give up the crown.'They are hardly as blue
as I expected,'he grumbled, though the parrot knew as well as he did
that he was not speaking the truth;'so you must bring me something
else in exchange for the crown you covet so much.

If you fail it will cost you not only the crown but you life also.'' What is it you want now?'asked
the parrot; and the giant answered:'If I give you my crown I must
have another still more beautiful; and this time you shall bring me
a crown of stars.'The parrot turned away, and as soon as she was outside
she murmured:'Toad, come to me!'And sure enough a toad she was, and
off she set in search of the starry crown.

She had not gone far before she came to a clear pool, in which the stars were reflected so brightly
that they looked quite real to touch and handle. Stooping down she filled a bag she was carrying
with the shining water and, returning to the castle, wove a crown
out of the reflected stars. Then she cried as before:'Parrot, come
to me!'And in the shape of a parrot she entered the presence of the
giant.'Here is the crown you asked for,'she said; and this time the
giant could not help crying out with admiration.

He knew he was beaten, and still holding the chaplet of stars, he turned to the girl.'Your power
is greater than mine: take the crown; you have won it fairly!'The parrot did not need to be told twice.
Seizing the crown, she sprang on to the window, crying:'Monkey, come
to me!'And to a monkey, the climb down the tree into the courtyard
did not take half a minute.

When she had reached the ground she said again:'Ant, come to me!'And
a little ant at once began to crawl over the high wall.

How glad the ant was to be out of the giant's castle, holding fast the crown which had shrunk into almost
nothing, as she herself had done, but grew quite big again when the
ant exclaimed:'Deer, come to me!'Surely no deer ever ran so swiftly
as that one!

On and on she went, bounding over rivers and crashing through tangles
till she reached the sea.

Here she cried for the last time:'Fish, come to me!'And, plunging
in, she swam along the bottom as far as the palace, where the queen
and all the fishes gathered together awaiting her.

The hours since she had left had gone very slowly-- as they always do to people that are waiting--
and many of them had quite given up hope.'I am tired of staying here,'grumbled
a beautiful little creature, whose colours changed with every movement
of her body,'I want to see what is going on in the upper world.

It must be months since that fish went away.'' It was a very difficult task, and the giant must certainly
have killed her or she would have been back long ago,'remarked another.'The young flies will be coming
out now,'murmured a third,'and they will all be eaten up by the river fish! It is really too bad!'When,
suddenly, a voice was heard from behind:'Look! look! what is that bright
thing that is moving so swiftly towards us?'And the queen started
up, and stood on her tail, so excited was she.

A silence fell on all the crowd, and even the grumblers held their peace and gazed like the rest.
On and on came the fish, holding the crown tightly in her mouth,
and the others moved back to let her pass.

On she went right up to the queen, who bent and, taking the crown, placed it on her own head. Then
a wonderful thing happened.

Her tail dropped away or, rather, it divided and grew into two legs
and a pair of the prettiest feet in the world, while her maidens,
who were grouped around her, shed their scales and became girls again.

They all turned and looked at each other first, and next at the little fish who had regained
her own shape and was more beautiful than any of them.'It is you
who have given us back our life; you, you!'they cried; and fell to
weeping from very joy.

So they all went back to earth and the queen's palace, and quite forgot the one that lay under
the sea. But they had been so long away that they found many changes. The prince, the queen's
husband, had died some years since, and in his place was her son,
who had grown up and was king!

Even in his joy at seeing his mother again an air of sadness clung to
him, and at last the queen could bear it no longer, and begged him
to walk with her in the garden.

Seated together in a bower of jessamine-- where she had passed long hours as a bride-- she took her
son's hand and entreated him to tell her the cause of his sorrow.'For,'said
she,'if I can give you happiness you shall have it.'' It is no use,'answered
the prince;'nobody can help me.

I must bear it alone.'' But at least let me share your grief,'urged the queen.'No one can do that,'said
he.'I have fallen in love with what I can never marry, and I must get on as best I can.'' It may
not be as impossible as you think,'answered the queen.'At any rate,
tell me.'There was silence between them for a moment, then, turning
away his head, the prince answered gently:'I have fallen in love with
a beautiful deer!'' Ah, if that is all,'exclaimed the queen joyfully.

And she told him in broken words that, as he had guessed, it was no deer but an enchanted maiden
who had won back the crown and brought her home to her own people.'She is here, in my palace,'added
the queen.'I will take you to her.'But when the prince stood before
the girl, who was so much more beautiful than anything he had ever
dreamed of, he lost all his courage, and stood with bent head before
her.

Then the maiden drew near, and her eyes, as she looked at him, were the eyes of the deer that day
in the forest.

She whispered softly:'By your favour let me go, and do not kill me.'And
the prince remembered her words, and his heart was filled with happiness.
And the queen, his mother, watched them and smiled.  Others caught at the rope, grovelling, snarling.

They were saved the last stage of their disgrace.  Into the crowd there pressed the figure
of a new-comer, a hatless man, whose face was pale, whose feet were unshod, and who bore one
arm helpless in a dirty sling which hung about his neck.  Haggard and unkempt, barefooted,
half-clad as he had stumbled out of bed at his ranch six miles away, Bill Watson, the sheriff,
appeared a figure unheroic enough.  With his broken arm hanging useless and jostled by the
crowd, he raised his right hand above his head and called out, in a voice weak and halting,
but determined:

"Men, go--go home!  I command you--in the name--of the law!"

BOOK IV

THE DAY OF THE PLOUGH

CHAPTER XXX

THE END OF THE TRAIL

The Cottage Hotel of Ellisville was, singularly enough, in its palmy days conducted by a woman,
and a very good woman she was.  It was perhaps an error in judgment which led the husband of
this woman to undertake the establishment of a hotel at such a place and such a time, but he
hastened to repair his fault by amiably dying.  The widow, a large woman, of great kindness
of heart and a certain skill in the care of gunshot wounds, fell heiress to the business, carried
it on and made a success of it.  All these wild range men who came roistering up the Trail
loved this large and kind old lady, and she called them all her "boys," watching over the wild
brood as a hen does over her chickens. She fed them and comforted them, nursed them and buried
them, always new ones coming to take the places of those who were gone.  Chief mourner at over
threescore funerals, nevertheless was Mother Daly's voice always for peace and decorum; and
what good she did may one day be discovered when the spurred and booted dead shall rise.

The family of Mother Daly flourished and helped build the north-bound cattle trail, along which
all the hoof marks ran to Ellisville.  There was talk of other cow towns, east of Ellisville,
west of it, but the clannish conservatism of the drovers held to the town they had chosen and
baptized.  Thus the family of Mother Daly kept up its numbers, and the Cottage knew no night,
even at the time when the wars of the cowmen with the railroad men and the gamblers had somewhat
worn away by reason of the advancing of the head of the rails still farther into the Great
American Desert.

There was yet no key to the Cottage bar when there came the unbelievable word that there was
no longer a buffalo to be found anywhere on the range, and that the Indians were gone, beaten,
herded up forever.  Far to the north, it was declared, there were men coming in on the cow
range who had silver-mounted guns, who wore gold and jewels, and who brought with them saddles
without horns!  It was said, however, that these new men wanted to buy cows, so cows were taken
to them.  Many young men of Mother Daly's family went on up the Trail, never to come back to
Ellisville, and it was said that they were paid much gold, and that they stole many cows from
the men who had silver-mounted guns, and who wore strange, long knives, with which it was difficult
to open a tin can.

Mother Daly looked upon this, and it was well.  She understood her old boys and loved them.
She was glad the world was full of them.  It was a busy, happy, active world, full of bold
deeds, full of wide plans, full of men.  She looked out over the wide wind-swept plains, along
the big chutes full of bellowing beeves, at the wide corral with its scores of saddled Nemeses,
and she was calm and happy.  It was a goodly world.

It was upon one day that Mother Daly looked out upon her world; upon the next day she looked
again, and all the world was changed.  Far as the eye could reach, the long and dusty roadway
of the cows lay silent, with its dust unstirred.  Far, very far off, there was approaching
a little band of strange, small, bleating, woolly creatures, to whose driver Mother Daly refused
bed and board.  The cattle chutes were silent, the corral was empty.  At the Cottage bar the
keeper had at last found a key to the door.  Up and down the Trail, east and west of the Trail,
all was quiet, bare, and desolate.  At some signal--some signal written on the sky--all the
old life of Ellisville had taken up its journey into a farther land, into another day.  The
cowman, the railroad man, and the gambling man had gone, leaving behind them the wide and well-perforated
Cottage, the graveyard with its double street, the cattle chutes with well-worn, hairy walls.

Now there came upon the face of the country faint scars where wheels had cut into the hard
soil, these vagrant indices of travel not pointing all one way, and not cut deep, as was the
royal highway of the cattle, but crossing, tangling, sometimes blending into main-travelled
roads, though more often straying aimlessly off over the prairie to end at the homestead of
some farmer. But that was not possible, of course; and besides, what sort of companion could
an ugly thing like him be to those beautiful beings? So he walked sadly down to a sheltered pool
and dived to the very bottom, and tried to think it was the greatest happiness he could dream
of.

But, all the same, he knew it wasn't! And every morning it grew colder and colder, and the
duckling had hard work to keep himself warm. Indeed, it would be truer to say that he never
was warm at all; and at last, after one bitter night, his legs moved so slowly that the ice crept
closer and closer, and when the morning light broke he was caught
fast, as in a trap; and soon his senses went from him.

A few hours more and the poor duckling's life had been ended.

But, by good fortune, a man was crossing the river on his way to his work, and saw in a moment
what had happened. He had on thick wooden shoes, and he went and stamped so hard on the ice
that it broke, and then he picked up the duckling and tucked him under his sheepskin coat, where
his frozen bones began to thaw a little.

Instead of going on his work, the man turned back and took the bird
to his children, who gave him a warm mess to eat and put him in a
box by the fire, and when they came back from school he was much more
comfortable than he had been since he had left the old woman's cottage.

They were kind little children, and wanted to play with him; but, alas! the poor fellow had
never played in his life, and thought they wanted to tease him, and flew straight into the milk-pan,
and then into the butter-dish, and from that into the meal-barrel, and at last, terrified at
the noise and confusion, right out of the door, and hid himself in
the snow amongst the bushes at the back of the house.

He never could tell afterwards exactly how he had spent the rest of
the winter.

He only knew that he was very miserable and that he never had enough to eat. But by-and-by
things grew better. The earth became softer, the sun hotter, the birds sang, and the flowers
once more appeared in the grass. When he stood up, he felt different, somehow, from what he had
done before he fell asleep among the reeds to which he had wandered after he had escaped from
the peasant's hut.

His body seemed larger, and his wings stronger. Something pink looked at him from the side of a
hill. He thought he would fly towards it and see what it was.

Oh, how glorious it felt to be rushing through the air, wheeling first one way and then the other!
He had never thought that flying could be like that! The duckling was almost sorry when he
drew near the pink cloud and found it was made up of apple blossoms growing beside a cottage whose
garden ran down to the banks of the canal. He fluttered slowly to the ground and paused for a
few minutes under a thicket of syringas, and while he was gazing about him, there walked slowly
past a flock of the same beautiful birds he had seen so many months
ago.

Fascinated, he watched them one by one step into the canal, and float quietly upon the waters
as if they were part of them.'I will follow them,'said the duckling
to himself;'ugly though I am, I would rather be killed by them than
suffer all I have suffered from cold and hunger, and from the ducks
and fowls who should have treated me kindly.'And flying quickly down
to the water, he swam after them as fast as he could.

It did not take him long to reach them, for they had stopped to rest in a green pool shaded by
a tree whose branches swept the water. And directly they saw him coming some of the younger
ones swam out to meet him with cries of welcome, which again the duckling hardly understood.
He approached them glad, yet trembling, and turning to one of the
older birds, who by this time had left the shade of the tree, he said:'If
I am to die, I would rather you should kill me.

I don't know why I was ever hatched, for I am too ugly to live.'And as he spoke, he bowed his
head and looked down into the water. Reflected in the still pool he saw many white shapes,
with long necks and golden bills, and, without thinking, he looked for the dull grey body and
the awkward skinny neck. But no such thing was there. Instead, he beheld beneath him a beautiful
white swan!'The new one is the best of all,'said the children when
they came down to feed the swans with biscuit and cake before going
to bed.'His feathers are whiter and his beak more golden than the
rest.'And when he heard that, the duckling thought that it was worth
while having undergone all the persecution and loneliness that he
had passed through, as otherwise he would never have known what it
was to be really happy.

The Two Caskets [Hans Andersen.] Far, far away, in the midst of a pine forest, there lived a woman
who had both a daughter and a stepdaughter.

Ever since her own daughter was born the mother had given her all that she cried for, so she grew up
to be as cross and disagreeable as she was ugly. Her stepsister, on the other hand, had spent her childhood
in working hard to keep house for her father, who died soon after
his second marriage; and she was as much beloved by the neighbours
for her goodness and industry as she was for her beauty.

As the years went on, the difference between the two girls grew more marked, and the old woman
treated her stepdaughter worse than ever, and was always on the watch for some pretext for beating
her, or depriving her of her food. Anything, however foolish, was good enough for this, and one
day, when she could think of nothing better, she set both the girls to spin while sitting
on the low wall of the well.'And you had better mind what you do,'said
she,'for the one whose thread breaks first shall be thrown to the
bottom.'But of course she took good care that her own daughter's flax
was fine and strong, while the stepsister had only some coarse stuff,
which no one would have thought of using.

As might be expected, in a very little while the poor girl's thread
snapped, and the old woman, who had been watching from behind a door,
seized her stepdaughter by her shoulders, and threw her into the well.'That
is an end of you!'she said.

But she was wrong, for it was only the beginning.

Down, down, down went the girl-- it seemed as if the well must reach to the very middle of the
earth; but at last her feet touched the ground, and she found herself in a field more beautiful
than even the summer pastures of her native mountains. Trees waved in the soft breeze, and
flowers of the brightest colours danced in the grass. And though she was quite alone, the girl's
heart danced too, for she felt happier than she had since her father died. So she walked on through
the meadow till she came to an old tumbledown fence-- so old that
it was a wonder it managed to stand up at all, and it looked as if
it depended for support on the old man's beard that climbed all over
it.

The girl paused for a moment as she came up, and gazed about for a place where she might safely
cross. But before she could move a voice cried from the fence:'Do not hurt me, little maiden; I am
so old, so old, I have not much longer to live.'And the maiden answered:'No, I will not hurt
you; fear nothing.'And then seeing a spot where the clematis grew less thickly than in other
places, she jumped lightly over.'May all go well with thee,'said
the fence, as the girl walked on.

She soon left the meadow and turned into a path which ran between two flowery hedges. Right in
front of her stood an oven, and through its open door she could see
a pile of white loaves.'Eat as many loaves as you like, but do me
no harm, little maiden,'cried the oven.

    And the maiden told her to fear nothing, for she never hurt anything,
and was very grateful for the oven's kindness in giving her such
a beautiful white loaf.

    When she had finished it, down to the last crumb, she shut the oven
door and said:'Good-morning.'' May all go well with thee,'said the oven,
as the girl walked on.

By-and-by she became very thirsty, and seeing a cow with a milk-pail
hanging on her horn, turned towards her.'Milk me and drink as much
as you will, little maiden,'cried the cow,'but be sure you spill none
on the ground; and do me no harm, for I have never harmed anyone.'' Nor
I,'answered the girl;'fear nothing.'So she sat down and milked till
the pail was nearly full.

Then she drank it all up except a little drop at the bottom.'Now throw any that is left over
my hoofs, and hang the pail on my horns again,'said the cow. And the girl did as she was bid, and kissed
the cow on her forehead and went her way. Many hours had now passed since the girl had fallen
down the well, and the sun was setting.'Where shall I spend the night?'thought she. And suddenly
she saw before her a gate which she had not noticed before, and a very old woman leaning against it.'Good
evening,'said the girl politely; and the old woman answered:'Good evening, my child. Would that
everyone was as polite as you.

  
    Are you in search of anything?'' I am
  in search of a place,'replied the girl; and the woman smiled
    and said:'Then stop a little while and comb my hair, and you shall
tell me all the things you can do.'' Willingly, mother,'answered the
girl.

And she began combing out the old woman's hair, which was long and
white.

Half an hour passed in this way, and then the old woman said:'As
you did not think yourself too good to comb me, I will show you where
you may take service.

Be prudent and patient and all will go well.'So the girl thanked
her, and set out for a farm at a little distance, where she was engaged
to milk the cows and sift the corn.

As soon as it was light next morning the girl got up and went into the cow-house.'I'm sure you
must be hungry,'said she, patting each in turn.

And then she fetched hay from the barn, and while they were eating
it, she swept out the cow-house, and strewed clean straw upon the
floor.

The cows were so pleased with the care she took of them that they
stood quite still while she milked them, and did not play any of
the tricks on her that they had played on other dairymaids who were
rough and rude.

And when she had done, and was going to get up from her stool, she found sitting round her a
whole circle of cats, black and white, tabby and tortoise-shell,
who all cried with one voice:'We are very thirsty, please give us
some milk!'' My poor little pussies,'said she,'of course you shall
have some.'And she went into the dairy, followed by all the cats,
and gave each one a little red saucerful.

But before they drank they all rubbed themselves against her knees and purred by way of thanks.
The next thing the girl had to do was to go to the storehouse, and to sift the corn through a sieve.
While she was busy rubbing the corn she heard a whirr of wings, and
a flock of sparrows flew in at the window.'We are hungry; give us
some corn! give us some corn!'cried they; and the girl answered:'You
poor little birds, of course you shall have some!'and scattered a
fine handful over the floor.

When they had finished they flew on her shoulders and flapped their
wings by way of thanks.

Time went by, and no cows in the
whole country-side were so fat and well tended as hers, and no dairy
had so much milk to show.

The farmer's wife was so well satisfied that she gave her higher wages,
and treated her like her own daughter.

At length, one day, the girl was bidden by her mistress to come into
the kitchen, and when there, the old woman said to her:'I know you
can tend cows and keep a diary; now let me see what you can do besides.

Take this sieve to the well, and fill
it with water, and bring it home to me without spilling one drop
by the way.'The girl's heart sank at this order; for how was it possible
for her to do her mistress's bidding?

However, she was silent, and taking the sieve went down to the well
with it.

Stopping over the side, she filled it to the brim, but as soon as she lifted it the water all
ran out of the holes.

Again and again she tried, but not a drop would remaining in the
sieve, and she was just turning away in despair when a flock of sparrows
flew down from the sky.'Ashes! ashes!'they twittered; and the girl
looked at them and said:'Well, I can't be in a worse plight than I
am already, so I will take your advice.'And she ran back to the kitchen
and filled her sieve with ashes.

Then once more she dipped the sieve into the well, and, behold, this time not a drop of water
disappeared!'Here is the sieve, mistress,'cried the girl, going to
the room where the old woman was sitting.'You are cleverer than I
expected,'answered she;'or else someone helped you who is skilled
in magic.'But the girl kept silence, and the old woman asked her no
more questions.

Many days passed during which the girl went about her work as usual,
but at length one day the old woman called her and said:'I have something
more for you to do.

There are here two yarns, the one white, the other black.

What
you must do is to wash them in the river till the black one becomes
white and the white black.'And the girl took them to the river and
washed hard for several hours, but wash as she would they never changed
one whit.'This is worse than the sieve,'thought she, and was about
to give up in despair when there came a rush of wings through the
air, and on every twig of the birch trees which grew by the bank was
perched a sparrow.'The black to the east, the white to the west!'they
sang, all at once; and the girl dried her tears and felt brave again.

Picking up the black yarn, she stood facing the east and
dipped it in the river, and in an instant it grew white as snow,
then turning to the west, she held the white yarn in the water, and
it became as black as a crow's wing.

She looked back at the sparrows
and smiled and nodded to them, and flapping their wings in reply
they flew swiftly away.

At the sight of the yarn the old woman was struck dumb; but when
at length she found her voice she asked the girl what magician had
helped her to do what no one had done before.

But she got no answer, for the maiden was afraid of bringing trouble
on her little friends.

For many weeks the mistress shut herself up in her room, and the girl went about her work as usual.
She hoped that there was an end to the difficult tasks which had
been set her; but in this she was mistaken, for one day the old woman
appeared suddenly in the kitchen, and said to her:'There is one more
trial to which I must put you, and if you do not fail in that you
will be left in peace for evermore.

Here are the yarns which you washed. Take them and weave them into a web that is as smooth
as a king's robe, and see that it is spun by the time that the sun
sets.'' This is the easiest thing I have been set to do,'thought the
girl, who was a good spinner.

But when she began she found that the skein tangled and broke every moment.'Oh, I can never
do it!'she cried at last, and leaned her head against the loom and
wept; but at that instant the door opened, and there entered, one
behind another, a procession of cats.'What is the matter, fair maiden?'asked
they.

And the girl answered:'My mistress has given me this yarn to weave
into a piece of cloth, which must be finished by sunset, and I have
not even begun yet, for the yarn breaks whenever I touch it.'' If
that is all, dry your eyes,'said the cats;'we will manage it for you.'And
they jumped on the loom, and wove so fast and so skilfully that in
a very short time the cloth was ready and was as fine as any king
ever wore.

The girl was so delighted at the sight of it that she gave each cat a kiss on his forehead as
they left the room behind one the other as they had come.'Who has taught you this wisdom?'asked
the old woman, after she had passed her hands twice or thrice over the cloth and could find
no roughness anywhere. But the girl only smiled and did not answer.
She had learned early the value of silence.

After a few
weeks the old woman sent for her maid and told her that as her year
of service was now up, she was free to return home, but that, for
her part, the girl had served her so well that she hoped she might
stay with her.

But at these words the maid shook
her head, and answered gently:'I have been happy here, Madam, and
I thank you for your goodness to me; but I have left behind me a
stepsister and a stepmother, and I am fain to be with them once more.'The
old woman looked at her for a moment, and then she said:'Well, that
must be as you like; but as you have worked faithfully for me I will
give you a reward.

Go now into the loft above the store house and there you will find
many caskets.

Choose the one which pleases you best, but be careful not to open
it till you have set it in the place where you wish it to remain.'The
girl left the room to go to the loft, and as soon as she got outside,
she found all the cats waiting for her.

Walking in procession, as was their custom, they followed her into the loft, which was filled with
caskets big and little, plain and splendid.

She lifted up one and looked at it, and then put it down to examine
another yet more beautiful.

Which should she choose, the yellow or the blue, the red or the green,
the gold or the silver?

She hesitated long, and went first to one and then to another, when
she heard the cats'voices calling:'Take the black! take the black!'The
words make her look round-- she had seen no black casket, but as the
cats continued their cry she peered into several corners that had
remained unnoticed, and at length discovered a little black box, so
small and so black, that it might easily have been passed over.'This
is the casket that pleases me best, mistress,'said the girl, carrying
it into the house.

And the old woman smiled and nodded, and bade her go her way. So the girl set forth, after bidding
farewell to the cows and the cats and the sparrows, who all wept as they said good-bye. She
walked on and on and on, till she reached the flowery meadow, and there, suddenly, something happened,
she never knew what, but she was sitting on the wall of the well in her stepmother's yard. Then
she got up and entered the house. The woman and her daughter stared as if they had been turned
into stone; but at length the stepmother gasped out:'So you are alive
after all!

Well, luck was ever against me! And where have you been this year past?'Then the girl told how she
had taken service in the under-world, and, beside her wages, had brought home with her a little
casket, which she would like to set up in her room.'Give me the money, and take the ugly little
box off to the outhouse,'cried the woman, beside herself with rage,
and the girl, quite frightened at her violence, hastened away, with
her precious box clasped to her bosom.

The outhouse was in a very dirty state, as no one had been near
it since the girl had fallen down the well; but she scrubbed and swept till
everything was clean again, and then she placed the little casket
on a small shelf in the corner.'Now I may open it,'she said to herself;
and unlocking it with the key which hung to its handle, she raised
the lid, but started back as she did so, almost blinded by the light
that burst upon her.

No one would ever have guessed that that little black box could have
held such a quantity of beautiful things!

Rings,
crowns, girdles, necklaces-- all made of wonderful stones; and they
shone with such brilliance that not only the stepmother and her daughter
but all the people round came running to see if the house was on
fire.

Of course the woman felt quite ill with greed and envy, and she would
have certainly taken all the jewels for herself had she not feared
the wrath of the neighbours, who loved her stepdaughter as much as
they hated her.

But if she could not steal the casket and its contents for herself,
at least she could get another like it, and perhaps a still richer
one.

So she
bade her own daughter sit on the edge of the well, and threw her into the water, exactly as she had
done to the other girl; and, exactly as before, the flowery meadow
lay at the bottom.

Every inch of the way she trod the path which her stepsister had trodden, and saw the things which
she had seen; but there the likeness ended.

When the fence prayed her to do it no harm, she laughed rudely, and tore up some of the stakes
so that she might get over the more easily; when the oven offered her bread, she scattered the
loaves onto the ground and stamped on them; and after she had milked the cow, and drunk as
much as she wanted, she threw the rest on the grass, and kicked the
pail to bits, and never heard them say, as they looked after her:'You
shall not have done this to me for nothing!'Towards evening she reached
the spot where the old woman was leaning against the gate-post, but
she passed her by without a word.'Have you no manners in your country?'asked
the crone.'I can't stop and talk; I am in a hurry,'answered the girl.'It
is getting late, and I have to find a place.'' Stop and comb my hair
for a little,'said the old woman,'and I will help you to get a place.'' Comb
your hair, indeed!

I have something better to do than that!'And slamming the gate in the crone's face she went her
way. And she never heard the words that followed her:'You shall not have done this to me for
nothing!'By-and-by the girl arrived at the farm, and she was engaged
to look after the cows and sift the corn as her stepsister had been.

But it was only when someone was watching her that she did her work;
at other times the cow-house was dirty, and the cows ill-fed and
beaten, so that they kicked over the pail, and tried to butt her;
and everyone said they had never seen such thin cows or such poor
milk.

As for the cats, she chased them away, and ill-treated them, so that
they had not even the spirit to chase the rats and mice, which nowadays
ran about everywhere. And when the sparrows came to beg for some corn,
they fared no better than the cows and the cats, for the girl threw
her shoes at them, till they flew in a fright to the woods, and took
shelter amongst the trees.

Months passed in this manner, when, one day, the mistress called the
girl to her.'All that I have given you to do you have done ill,'said
she,'yet will I give you another chance.

For though you cannot tend cows, or divide the grain from the chaff,
there may be other things that you can do better. Therefore take this
sieve to the well, and fill it with water, and see that you bring
it back without spilling a drop.'The girl took the sieve and carried
it to the well as her sister had done; but no little birds came to
help her, and after dipping it in the well two or three times she
brought it back empty.'I thought as much,'said the old woman angrily;'she
that is useless in one thing is useless in another.'Perhaps the mistress
may have thought that the girl had learnt a lesson, but, if she did,
she was quite mistaken, as the work was no better done than before.

By-and-by she sent for her again, and gave her maid the black and white
yarn to wash in the river; but there was no one to tell her the secret
by which the black would turn white, and the white black; so she brought
them back as they were.

This time the old woman only looked at her grimly but the girl was too well pleased with herself
to care what anyone thought about her. After some weeks her third trial came, and the yarn was
given her to spin, as it had been given to her stepsister before her. But no procession of cats
entered the room to weave a web of fine cloth, and at sunset she
only brought back to her mistress an armful of dirty, tangled wool.'There
seems nothing in the world you can do,'said the old woman, and left
her to herself.

Soon after this the year was up, and the girl went to her mistress to tell her that she wished to
go home.'Little desire have I to keep you,'answered the old woman,'for
no one thing have you done as you ought.

Still, I will give you some payment, therefore go up into the loft,
and choose for yourself one of the caskets that lies there.

But see
that you do not open it till you place it where you wish it to stay.'This
was what the girl had been hoping for, and so rejoiced was she, that,
without even stopping to thank the old woman, she ran as fast as she
could to the loft.

There were the caskets, blue and red, green and yellow, silver and
gold; and there in the corner stood a little black casket just like
the one her stepsister had brought home.  Git your nose up, Ned, or you'll be unwittin' classifyin'
yersilf with the great slave class which we lift behind not long ago, but which is follyin'
us hard and far.  Git your nose up, fer it's Batty has been thinkin' ye've Destiny inside your
skin.  Listen to Batty the Fool, and search your sowl. I'll tell ye this: I've the feelin'
that I'll be hearin' of ye, in all the marrches o' the worrld.  Don't disappoint me, Ned, for
the ould man has belaved in ye--more than ye've belaved in yersilf.  As to the gyurl--bah!--go
marry her some day, av ye've nothin' more importhant on yer hands.

"But, me dear boy, spakin' o' importhant things, I ralely must be goin' now.  I've certain
importhant preparations that are essintial before I get dhrunk this avenin'--"

"O Battersleigh, do be sensible," said Franklin, "and do give up this talk of getting drunk.
Come over here this evening and talk with me. It's much better than getting drunk."

Battersleigh's hand was on the door knob.  "The consate o' you!" he said.  "Thrue, ye're a
fine boy, Ned, an' I know of no conversayshun more entertainin' than yer own, but I tale that
if I didn't get dhrunk like a gintleman this avenin', I'd be violatin' me juty to me own conscience,
as well as settin' at naught the thraditions o' the Rile Irish.  An' so, if ye'll just excuse
me, I'll say good-bye till, say, to-morrow noon."

CHAPTER XXXII

THE CALLING

And now there still fared on the swift, sane empire of the West.  The rapid changes, the strivings,
the accomplishments, the pretensions and the failures of the new town blended in the product
of human progress. Each man fell into his place in the community as though appointed thereto,
and the eyes of all were set forward.  There was no retrospection, there were no imaginings,
no fears, no disbeliefs.  The people were as ants, busy building their hill, underletting it
with galleries, furnishing it with chambers, storing it with riches, providing it with defences;
yet no individual ant looked beyond his own antennae, or dreamed that there might be significance
in the tiny footprints which he left.  There were no philosophers to tell these busy actors
that they were puppets in a great game, ants in a giant hill. The old man was abed. I climbed up to
the small loft, and lay there wide-awake for hours.

At last came the sounds that I had waited for, and presently I knew by the tramp beneath, and
by low laments floating up, that a wife was mourning over the dead
body of her husband.  He neglected too much the social side of life, and rather
held to his old friends than busied himself with the search for new. It was still quite dark when
Isuro heard his name called very softly, and, on opening his eyes, beheld Gudu standing by him.
Laying his finger on his nose, in token of silence, he signed to Isuro to get up and follow
him, and it was not until they were some distance from the hut that
Gudu spoke.'I am hungry and want something to eat better than that
nasty porridge that I had for supper.

So I am going to kill one of those goats, and as you are a good cook you must boil the flesh for me.'The
rabbit nodded, and Gudu disappeared behind a rock, but soon returned dragging the dead goat with
him. The two then set about skinning it, after which they stuffed the skin with dried leaves, so
that no one would have guessed it was not alive, and set it up in the middle of a lump of bushes,
which kept it firm on its feet. While he was doing this, Isuro collected sticks for a fire,
and when it was kindled, Gudu hastened to another hut to steal a pot which he filled with
water from the river, and, planting two branches in the ground, they hung the pot with the meat
in it over the fire.'It will not be fit to eat for two hours at least,'said Gudu,'so we can
both have a nap.'And he stretched himself out on the ground, and
pretended to fall fast asleep, but, in reality, he was only waiting
till it was safe to take all the meat for himself.'Surely I hear him
snore,'he thought; and he stole to the place where Isuro was lying
on a pile of wood, but the rabbit's eyes were wide open. His memory was set rather on the old days, so recent and in some
way so dear.  He loved the forgotten thunder of the buffalo, but in his heart there rose no
exultation at the rumble of the wheels.  Still conscientious, he plodded, nor did he cease
to aspire even in his own restricted avocations. They were so near that he could almost seize
their tails, yet each time he felt sure he could catch them his fingers closed on the empty
air. At length he could run no more, and stopped to breathe, while the cock and hen went on
as before. Then he remembered the cows, and, somewhat frightened, turned back to seek them. Luckily
they had not strayed far, and were quietly feeding on the thick green
grass.

Ardan son of Gorla was sitting under a tree, when he beheld a staff of gold and a staff of
silver doubling themselves in strange ways on the meadow in front
of him, and starting up he hastened towards them.

He followed them till he was tired, but he could not catch them, though they seemed ever within
his reach. When at last he gave up the quest his knees trembled beneath him for very weariness, and
glad was he to see a tree growing close by lade with fruits of different sorts, of which he ate
greedily.

The sun was by now low in the heavens, and the cows left off feeding, and turned their faces
home again, followed by Ardan son of Gorla. At the door of their stable the maiden stood awaiting
them, and saying nought to their herd, she sat down and began to milk. But it was not milk that
flowed into her pail; instead it was filled with a thin stream of water, and as she rose up from
the last cow the old man appeared outside.'Faithless one, you have
betrayed your trust!'he said to Ardan son of Gorla.'Not even for one
day could you keep true!

Well, you shall have your reward at once, that others may take warning from you.'And waving his
wand he touched with it the chest of the youth, who became a pillar of stone. Now Gorla of the
Flocks and his wife were full of grief that they had lost a son as
well as a daughter, for no tidings had come to them of Ardan their
eldest born.

At length, when two years and two days had passed since the maiden had led her kids to feed
on the mountain and had been seen no more, Ruais, second son of Gorla, rose up one morning, and said:'Time
is long without my sister and Ardan my brother. So I have vowed to seek them wherever they may
be.'And his father answered:'Better it had been if you had first
asked my consent and that of your mother; but as you have vowed so
must you do.'Then he bade his wife make a cake, but instead she made
two, and offered Ruais his choice, as she had done to Ardan.

Like Ardan, Ruais chose the large, unblessed cake, and set forth on his way, doing always, though he
knew it not, that which Ardan had done; so, needless is it to tell
what befell him till he too stood, a pillar of stone, on the hill
behind the cottage, so that all men might see the fate that awaited
those who broke their faith.

Another year and a day passed by, when Covan the Brown-haired, youngest
son of Gorla of the Flocks, one morning spake to his parents, saying:'It
is more than three years since my sister left us.

My brothers have also gone, no one know whither, and of us four none remains but I. No, therefore, I
long to seek them, and I pray you and my mother to place no hindrance in my way.'And his
father answered:'Go, then, and take our blessing with you.'So the wife of Gorla of the Flocks
baked two cakes, one large and one small; and Covan took the small
one, and started on his quest. In the wood he felt hungry, for he had
walked far, and he sat down to eat. Suddenly a voice behind him cried:'A
bit for me! a bit for me!'And looking round he beheld the black raven
of the wilderness.'Yes, you shall have a bit,'said Covan the Brown-haired;
and breaking off a piece he stretched it upwards to the raven, who
ate it greedily.

Then Covan arose and went forward, till he saw the light from the cottage
streaming before him, and glad was he, for night was at hand.

  The nature of such men is not always at the first assured, the
imprimitive seal not always surely set on, so that of one thus tormented of his inner self
it may be mere accident which shall determine whether it is to be great artist or great artisan
that is to be born again.

To Franklin, dreaming as he woke or slept, there sometimes waved a hand, there sometimes sounded
a Voice, as that which of old summoned the prophet in the watches of the night.  Neither in
his waking nor his sleeping hours could he call this spirit into materialization, however much
he longed to wrestle with it finally.  It remained only to haunt him vaguely, to join with
the shade of Mary Ellen the Cruel to set misery on a life which he had thought happily assured.

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE GREAT COLD

The land lay trusting and defenceless under a cynical sky, which was unthreatening but mocking.
Dotting a stretch of country thirty miles on either side of the railway, and extending as far
to the east and west along its line, there were scattered hundreds of homes, though often these
were separated one from the other by many miles of open prairie.  Fences and fields appeared,
and low stacks of hay and straw here and there stood up above the vast gray surface of the
old buffalo and cattle range.  Some of these houses were board "shacks," while others were
of sods, and yet others, these among the earliest established on the plains, the useful dugout,
half above and half beneath the ground.  Yet each building, squat or tall, small or less small,
was none the less a home.  Most of them contained families.  Men had brought hither their wives
and children--little children, sometimes babes, tender, needful of warmth and care.  For these
stood guardian the gaunt coal chutes of the town, with the demands of a population of twenty-five
hundred, to say nothing of the settlers round about, a hundred tons for a thousand families,
scattered, dwelling out along breaks and coulees, and on worn hillsides, and at the ends of
long, faint, wandering trails, which the first whirl of snow would softly and cruelly wipe away.

Yet there was no snow.  There had been none the winter before.  The trappers and skin-hunters
said that the winter was rarely severe.  The railroad men had ranged west all the winter, throats
exposed and coats left at the wagons.  It was a mild country, a gentle, tender country. In
this laughing sky who could see any cynicism? Soon after, Isuro woke up, and he too felt hungry, so he
crept softly to the pot and ate all the meat, while he tied the bones together and hung them
in Gudu's fur. After that he went back to the wood-pile and slept
again.

In the morning the mother of Gudu's betrothed came out to milk her goats, and on going to the bushes
where the largest one seemed entangled, she found out the trick. She made such lament that the
people of the village came running, and Gudu and Isuro jumped up also, and pretended to be as surprised
and interested as the rest. But they must have looked guilty after all, for suddenly an old
man pointed to them, and cried:'Those are thieves.'And at the sound
of his voice the big Gudu trembled all over.'How dare you say such
things?

I defy you to prove it,'answered Isuro boldly.

And he danced forward, and turned head over heels, and shook himself before them all.'I spoke
hastily; you are innocent,'said the old man;'but now let the baboon
do likewise.'And when Gudu began to jump the goat's bones rattled
and the people cried:'It is Gudu who is the goat-slayer!'But Gudu
answered:'Nay, I did not kill your goat; it was Isuro, and he ate
the meat, and hung the bones round my neck.

So it is he who should die!'And the people looked at each other, for they knew not what to believe.
At length one man said:'Let them both die, but they may choose their own deaths.'Then Isuro answered:'If
we must die, put us in the place where the wood is cut, and heap
it up all round us, so that we cannot escape, and set fire to the
wood; and if one is burned and the other is not, then he that is burned
is the goat-slayer.'And the people did as Isuro had said.

But Isuro knew of a hole under the wood-pile, and when the fire was kindled he ran into the hole,
but Gudu died there. When the fire had burned itself out and only ashes were left where the wood
had been, Isuro came out of his hole, and said to the people:'Lo!
did I not speak well?

He who killed your goat is among those ashes.'Ian, the Soldier's
Son [Mashona Story.] There dwelt a knight in Grianaig of the land
of the West, who had three daughters, and for goodness and beauty
they had not their like in all the isles.

All the people loved them, and loud was the weeping when one day,
as the three maidens sat on the rocks on the edge of the sea, dipping
their feet in the water, there arose a great beast from under the
waves and swept them away beneath the ocean.

And none knew whither they had gone, or how to seek them. Now there lived in a town a few miles
off a soldier who had three sons, fine youths and strong, and the best players at shinny in that
country.

At Christmastide that year, when families met together and great feasts were held, Ian, the youngest
of the three brothers, said:'Let us have a match at shinny on the
lawn of the knight of Grianaig, for his lawn is wider and the grass
smoother than ours.'But the others answered:'Nay, for he is in sorrow,
and he will think of the games that we have played there when his
daughters looked on.'' Let him be pleased or angry as he will,'said
Ian;'we will drive our ball on his lawn to-day.'And so it was done,
and Ian won three games from his brothers.

But the knight looked out of his window, and was wroth; and bade his men bring the youths before
him.

When he stood in his hall and beheld them, his heart was softened
somewhat; but his face was angry as he asked:'Why did you choose to
play shinny in front of my castle when you knew full well that the
remembrance of my daughters would come back to me?

The pain which you have made me suffer you shall suffer also.'' Since
we have done you wrong,'answered Ian, the youngest,'build us a ship,
and we will go and seek your daughters.

Let them be to windward, or to leeward, or under the four brown boundaries
of the sea, we will find them before a year and a day goes by, and
will carry them back to Grianaig.'In seven days the ship was built,
and great store of food and wine placed in her.

And the three brothers put her head to the sea
and sailed away, and in seven days the ship ran herself on to a beach
of white sand, and they all went ashore.

They had none of them ever seen that land before, and looked about them. Then they saw that,
a short way from them, a number of men were working on a rock, with one man standing over them.'What
place is this?'asked the eldest brother. And the man who was standing by made answer:'This
is the place where dwell the three daughters of the knight of Grianaig,
who are to be wedded to-morrow to three giants.'' How can we find them?'asked
the young man again.

And the overlooker answered:'To reach the daughters of the knight of Grianaig you must get into
this basket, and be drawn by a rope up the face of this rock.'' Oh, that is easily done,'said
the eldest brother, jumping into the basket, which at once began
to move-- up, and up, and up-- till he had gone about half-way, when
a fat black raven flew at him and pecked him till he was nearly blind,
so that he was forced to go back the way he had come.

After that the second brother got into the creel; but he fared no better, for the raven flew upon
him, and he returned as his brother had done.'Now it is my turn,'said
Ian.

But when he was halfway up the raven set upon him also.'Quick! quick!'cried
Ian to the men who held the rope.'Quick! quick! or I shall be blinded!'And
the men pulled with all their might, and in another moment Ian was
on top, and the raven behind him.'Will you give me a piece of tobacco?'asked
the raven, who was now quite quiet.'You rascal!

Am I to give you tobacco for trying to peck my eyes out?'answered Ian.'That was part of my duty,'replied
the raven;'but give it to me, and I will prove a good friend to you.'So
Ian broke off a piece of tobacco and gave it to him.

The raven hid it under his wing, and then went on;'Now I will take
you to the house of the big giant, where the knight's daughter sits
sewing, sewing, till even her thimble is wet with tears.'And the raven
hopped before him till they reached a large house, the door of which
stood open.

They
entered and passed through one hall after the other, until they found the knight's daughter,
as the bird had said.'What brought you here?'asked she. And Ian made answer:'Why may I not go
where you can go?'' I was brought hither by a giant,'replied she.'I
know that,'said Ian;'but tell me where the giant is, that I may find
him.'' He is on the hunting hill,'answered she;'and nought will bring
him home save a shake of the iron chain which hangs outside the gate.

But, there, neither to leeward, nor to windward, nor in the four brown boundaries of the sea, is there
any man that can hold battle against him, save only Ian, the soldier's
son, and he is now but sixteen years old, and how shall he stand against
the giant?'' In the land whence I have come there are many men with
the strength of Ian,'answered he.

And he went outside and pulled at the chain, but he could not move
it, and fell on to his knees.

At that he rose swiftly, and gathering up his strength, he seized the chain, and this time he shook it
so that the link broke. And the giant heard it on the hunting hill, and lifted his head, thinking--'It
sounds like the noise of Ian, the soldier's son,'said he;'but as
yet he is only sixteen years old.

Still,
I had better look to it.'And home he came.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?'he asked, as he entered the
castle.'No, of a surety,'answered the youth, who had no wish that they should know him.'Then
who are you in the leeward, or in the windward, or in the four brown boundaries of the sea,
who are able to move my battle-chain?'' That will be plain to you after wrestling with me as
I wrestle with my mother.

And one time she got the better of me, and two times she did not.'So
they wrestled, and twisted and strove with each other till the giant
forced Ian to his knee.'You are the stronger,'said Ian; and the giant
answered:'All men know that!'And they took hold of each other once
more, and at last Ian threw the giant, and wished that the raven were
there to help him.

No sooner had he wished his wish than the raven came.'Put your hand
under my right wing and you will find a knife sharp enough to take
off his head,'said the raven.

And the
knife was so sharp that it cut off the giant's head with a blow.'Now
go and tell the daughter of the king of Grianaig; but take heed lest
you listen to her words, and promise to go no further, for she will
seek to help you.

Instead, seek the middle daughter, and when you have found her, you
shall give me a piece of tobacco for reward.'' Well have you earned
the half of all I have,'answered Ian.

But the raven shook his head.'You know only what has passed, and nothing of what lies before.
If you would not fail, wash yourself in clean water, and take balsam
from a vessel on top of the door, and rub it over your body, and to-morrow
you will be as strong as many men, and I will lead you to the dwelling
of the middle one.'Ian did as the raven bade him, and in spite of
the eldest daughter's entreaties, he set out to seek her next sister.

He found her where she was seated sewing, her very thimble wet from
the tears which she had shed.'What brought you here?'asked the second
sister.'Why may I not go where you can go?'answered he;'and why are
you weeping?'' Because in one day I shall be married to the giant who
is on the hunting hill.'' How can I get him home?'asked Ian.'Nought
will bring him but a shake of that iron chain which hangs outside
the gate.

And he went outside and pulled at the chain, but he could not move it, and fell on his knees.'You
are the stronger,'cried Ian;'but I am not beaten yet.'And rising
to his feet, he threw his arms round the giant.

Backwards and forwards they swayed, and first one was uppermost and
then the other; but at length Ian worked his leg round the giant's
and threw him to the ground.

Then he called to the raven, and the raven came flapping towards him, and said:'Put your hand
under my right wing, and you will find there a knife sharp enough to take off his head.'And sharp indeed
it was, for with a single blow, the giant's head rolled from his
body.'Now wash yourself with warm water, and rub yourself over with
oil of balsam, and to-morrow you will be as strong as many men.

But beware of the words of the knight's daughter, for she is cunning,
and will try to keep you at her side.

So farewell; but first give me a piece of tobacco.'' That I will gladly,'answered
Ian breaking off a large bit.

He washed and rubbed himself that night, as the raven had told him, and the next morning he entered
the chamber where the knight's daughter was sitting.'Abide here with
me,'she said,'and be my husband.

There is silver and gold in plenty in the castle.'But he took no heed, and went on his way till
he reached the castle where the knight's youngest daughter was sewing in the hall. And tears dropped
from her eyes on to her thimble.'What brought you here?'asked she.
And Ian made answer:'Why may I not go where you can go?'' I was brought
hither by a giant.'' I know full well,'said he.'Are you Ian, the soldier's
son?'asked she again.

And again he answered:'Yes, I am; but tell me, why are you weeping?'' To-morrow
the giant will return from the hunting hill, and I must marry him,'she
sobbed.

And Ian took no heed, and only said:'How can I bring him home?'' Shake
the iron chain that hangs outside the gate.'And Ian went out, and
gave such a pull to the chain that he fell down at full length from
the force of the shake.

But in a moment he was on his feet again, and seized the chain with
so much strength that four links came off in his hand.

And the giant heard him in the hunting hill, as he was putting the
game he had killed into a bag.'In the leeward, or the windward, or
in the four brown boundaries of the sea, there is none who could give
my chain a shake save only Ian, the soldier's son.

And if he has reached me, then he has left my two brothers dead behind
him.'With that he strode back to the castle, the earth trembling under
him as he went.'Are you Ian, the soldier's son?'asked he.

And the youth answered:'No, of a surety.'' Then who are you in the leeward, or the windward, or
in the four brown boundaries of the sea, who are able to shake my battle chain? There is only
Ian, the soldier's son, who can do this, and he is but now sixteen years old.'I will show you who
I am when you have wrestled with me,'said Ian. And they threw their
arms round each other, and the giant forced Ian on to his knees;
but in a moment he was up again, and crooking his leg round the shoulders
of the giant, he threw him heavily to the ground.'Stumpy black raven,
come quick!'cried he; and the raven came, and beat the giant about
the head with his wings, so that he could not get up.

Then he bade Ian take
out a sharp knife from under his feathers, which he carried with
him for cutting berries, and Ian smote off the giant's head with it.

And so sharp was that knife that, with one blow, the giant's head rolled on the ground.'Rest now
this night also,'said the raven,'and to-morrow you shall take the
knight's three daughters to the edge of the rock that leads to the
lower world.

But take heed to go down first yourself, and let them follow after
you.

And before I go you shall give me a piece of tobacco.'' Take it all,'answered Ian,'for well have
you earned it.'' No; give me but a piece.

You know what is behind you, but you have no knowledge of what is
before you.'And picking up the tobacco in his beak, the raven flew
away.

So the next morning the knight's youngest daughter loaded asses with all
the silver and gold to be found in the castle, and she set out with
Ian the soldier's son for the house where her second sister was waiting
to see what would befall.

She also had asses laden with precious things to carry away, and so
had the eldest sister, when they reached the castle where she had
been kept a prisoner.

Together
they all rode to the edge of the rock, and then Ian lay down and
shouted, and the basket was drawn up, and in it they got one by one,
and were let down to the bottom.

When the last one was gone, Ian should have gone also, and left the
three sisters to come after him; but he had forgotten the raven's
warning, and bade them go first, lest some accident should happen.

Only, he begged the youngest sister to let him keep the little gold
cap which, like the others, she wore on her head; and then he helped
them, each in her turn, into the basket.

Long
he waited, but wait as he might, the basket never came back, for
in their joy at being free the knight's daughters had forgotten all
about Ian, and had set sail in the ship that had brought him and his
brothers to the land of Grianaig.

At last he began to understand what had happened to him, and while he
was taking counsel with himself what had best be done, the raven
came to him.'You did not heed my words,'he said gravely.'No, I did
not, and therefore am I here,'answered Ian, bowing his head.'The past
cannot be undone,'went on the raven.'He that will not take counsel
will take combat.

This night, you will sleep in the giant's castle.

And now you shall give me a piece of tobacco.'' I will. But, I pray you, stay in the castle with
me.'' That I may not do, but on the morrow I will come.'And on the
morrow he did, and he bade Ian go to the giant's stable where stood
a horse to whom it mattered nothing if she journeyed over land or
sea.'But be careful,'he added,'how you enter the stable, for the door
swings without ceasing to and fro, and if it touches you, it will
cause you to cry out.

I will go first and show you the way.'' Go,'said Ian.

And the raven gave a bob and a hop, and thought he was quite safe, but the door slammed on
a feather of his tail, and he screamed loudly. Then Ian took a run backwards, and a run forwards,
and made a spring; but the door caught one of his feet, and he fell
fainting on the stable floor.

Quickly the raven pounced on him, and picked him
up in his beak and claws, and carried him back to the castle, where
he laid ointments on his foot till it was as well as ever it was.'Now
come out to walk,'said the raven,'but take heed that you wonder not
at aught you may behold; neither shall you touch anything.

And, first, give me a piece of tobacco.'Many strange things did Ian
behold in that island, more than he had thought for.

In a glen lay three heroes stretched on their backs, done to death by three spears that still stuck in
their breasts. But he kept his counsel and spake nothing, only he
pulled out the spears, and the men sat up and said:'You are Ian the
soldier's son, and a spell is laid upon you to travel in our company,
to the cave of the black fisherman.'So together they went till they
reached the cave, and one of the men entered, to see what should be
found there.

And
he beheld a hag, horrible to look upon, seated on a rock, and before he could
speak, she struck him with her club, and changed him into a stone;
and in like manner she dealt with the other three.

At the last Ian entered.'These men are under spells,'said the witch,'and
alive they can never be till you have anointed them with the water
which you must fetch from the island of Big Women.

See that
you do not tarry.'And Ian turned away with a sinking heart, for he
would fain have followed the youngest daughter of the knight of Grianaig.'You
did not obey my counsel,'said the raven, hopping towards him,'and
so trouble has come upon you.

But sleep now, and to-morrow you shall mount the horse which is in
the giant's stable, that can gallop over sea and land.

When you reach the island of Big Women, sixteen boys will come to
meet you, and will offer the horse food, and wish to take her saddle
and bridle from her.

But see that they touch her not, and give her food yourself, and
yourself lead her into the stable, and shut the door.

And be sure that for every turn of the lock given by the sixteen stable lads you give one.
And now you shall break me off a piece of tobacco.'The next morning Ian arose, and led the
horse from the stable, without the door hurting him, and he rode across the sea to the island
of the Big Women, where the sixteen stable lads met him, and each
one offered to take his horse, and to feed her, and to put her into
the stable.

But Ian only answered:'I myself will put her in and will see to her.'And thus he did. And while he
was rubbing her sides the horse said to him:'Every kind of drink will they offer you, but see
you take none, save whey and water only.'And so it fell out; and when the sixteen stable-boys
saw that he would drink nothing, they drank it all themselves, and one by one lay stretched around
the board.

Then Ian felt pleased in his heart that he had withstood their fair words, and he forgot the counsel
that the horse had likewise given him saying:'Beware lest you fall asleep, and let slip the
chance of getting home again'; for while the lads were sleeping sweet
music reached his ears, and he slept also.

When this came to pass the steed broke through the stable door, and
kicked him and woke him roughly.'You did not heed my counsel,'said
she;'and who knows if it is not too late to win over the sea?

But first take that sword which hangs on the wall, and cut off the
heads of the sixteen grooms.'Filled with shame at being once more
proved heedless, Ian arose and did as the horse bade him.

Then he ran to the well and poured some of the water into a leather bottle, and jumping on the horse's
back rode over the sea to the island where the raven was waiting
for him.'Lead the horse into the stable,'said the raven,'and lie down
yourself to sleep, for to-morrow you must make the heroes to live
again, and must slay the hag.

And have a care not to be so foolish to-morrow as you were to-day.'' Stay with me for company,'begged
Ian; but the raven shook his head, and flew away. In the morning Ian awoke, and hastened to the
cave where the old hag was sitting, and he struck her dead as she
was, before she could cast spells on him.

Next
he sprinkled the water over the heroes, who came to life again, and
together they all journeyed to the other side of the island, and there
the raven met them.  Franklin led out of the flat coulee, into the
wider draw, and edged up and up to the right, agonizedly repeating to himself, over and over
again, the instructions he had laid down, and which the dizzy whirl of the snow mingled ever
confusedly in his mind.  At last they had the full gale again in their faces as they reached
the level of the prairies, and cast loose for what they thought was west, fearfully, tremblingly,
the voyage a quarter of a mile, the danger infinitely great; for beyond lay only the cruel
plains and the bitter storm--this double norther of a woeful Christmastide.

Once again Providence aided them, by agency of brute instinct.  One of the horses threw up
its head and neighed, and then both pressed forward eagerly.  The low moan of penned cattle
came down the wind.  They crashed into a fence of lath.  They passed its end--a broken, rattling
end, that trailed and swept back and forth in the wind.

"It's the chicken corral," cried Sam, "an' it's down!  They've been burnin'--"

"Go on! go on--hurry!" shouted Franklin, bending down his head so that the gale might not quite
rob him of his breath, and Sam urged on the now willing horses.

They came to the sod barn, and here they left the team that had saved them, not pausing to
take them from the harness.  They crept to the low and white-banked wall in which showed two
windows, glazed with frost. They could not see the chimney plainly, but it carried no smell
of smoke.  The stairway leading down to the door of the dugout was missing, the excavation
which held it was drifted full of snow, and the snow bore no track of human foot.  All was
white and silent.  It might have been a vault far in the frozen northern sea.

Franklin burst open the door, and they both went in, half pausing. There was that which might
well give them pause.  The icy breath of the outer air was also here.  Heaps and tongues of
snow lay across the floor.  White ashes lay at the doors of both the stoves.  The table was
gone, the chairs were gone.  The interior was nearly denuded, so that the abode lay like an
abandoned house, drifted half full of dry, fine powdered snow.  And even this snow upon the
floors had no tracks upon its surface.  There was no sign of life.

Awed, appalled, the two men stood, white and huge, in the middle of the abandoned room, listening
for that which they scarce expected to hear. Yet from one of the side rooms they caught a moan,
a call, a supplication.  Then from a door came a tall and white-faced figure with staring eyes,
which held out its arms to the taller of the snow-shrouded forms and said: "Uncle, is it you?
Have you come back? We were so afraid!"  From the room behind this figure came a voice sobbing,
shouting, blessing the name of the Lord.  So they knew that two were saved, and one was missing.

They pushed into the remaining room.  "Auntie went away," said the tall and white-faced figure,
shuddering and shivering.  "She went away into her room.  We could not find the fence any more.
Uncle, is it you? Come!"  So they came to the bedside and saw Mrs. Buford lying covered with
all her own clothing and much of that of Mary Ellen and Aunt Lucy, but with no robe; for the
buffalo robes had all gone with the wagon, as was right, though unavailing.  Under this covering,
heaped up, though insufficient, lay Mrs. Buford, her face white and still and marble-cold.
They found her with the picture of her husband clasped upon her breast.

"She went away!" sobbed Mary Ellen, leaning her head upon Franklin's shoulder and still under
the hallucination of the fright and strain and suffering. But tell his majesty that if he does
not return it at the end of the three days I will make war upon him.'So
the chamberlain carried away the table and took it straight to the
king, telling him at the same time of Jack's threat, at which they
both laughed till their sides ached.

Now the king was so delighted with the table, and the dinners it
gave him, that when the three days were over he could not make up
his mind to part with it.

Instead, he sent for his carpenter, and bade him copy it exactly, and when it was done he told
his chamberlain to return it to Jack with his best thanks. It happened to be dinner time, and Jack
invited the chamberlain, who knew nothing of the trick, to stay and dine with him. The good man,
who had eaten several excellent meals provided by the table in the last three days, accepted
the invitation with pleasure, even though he was to dine in a stable, and sat down on the straw beside
Jack.'The dinner of an emperor!'cried Jack. But not even a morsel
of cheese made its appearance.'The dinner of an emperor!'shouted
Jack in a voice of thunder.

Then the truth dawned on him; and, crushing the table between his
hands, he turned to the chamberlain, who, bewildered and half-frightened,
was wondering how to get away.'Tell your false king that to-morrow
I will destroy his castle as easily as I have broken this table.'The
chamberlain hastened back to the palace, and gave the king Jack's
message, at which he laughed more than before, and called all his
courtiers to hear the story.

But
they were not quite so merry when they woke next morning and beheld
ten thousand horsemen, and as many archers, surrounding the palace.

The king saw it was useless to hold out, and he took the white flag of truce in one hand, and the real
table in the other, and set out to look for Jack.'I committed a crime,'said
he;'but I will do my best to make up for it.

Here is your table, which I own with shame that I tried to steal, and you shall have besides,
my daughter as your wife!'There was no need to delay the marriage
when the table was able to furnish the most splendid banquet that
ever was seen, and after everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they
wanted, Jack took his bag and commanded a castle filled with all sorts
of treasures to arise in the park for himself and his bride.

At this proof of his power the king's heart died within him.'Your magic is greater than mine,'he said;'and
you are young and strong, while I am old and tired. Take, therefore, the sceptre from my hand,
and my crown from my head, and rule my people better than I have done.'So at last Jack's ambition was
satisfied. He could not hope to be more than king, and as long as he had his cornet to provide
him with soldiers he was secure against his enemies.

He never forgave his brothers for the way they had treated him, though he presented his mother
with a beautiful castle, and everything she could possibly wish for. In the centre of his own
palace was a treasure chamber, and in this chamber the table, the
cornet, and the bag were kept as the most prized of all his possessions,
and not a week passed without a visit from king John to make sure
they were safe.

He reigned long and well, and died a very old man, beloved by his people. But his good example
was not followed by his sons and his grandsons. They grew so proud that they were ashamed to think
that the founder of their race had once been a poor boy; and as they and all the world could
not fail to remember it, as long as the table, the cornet, and the
bag were shown in the treasure chamber, one king, more foolish than
the rest, thrust them into a dark and damp cellar.

For some time the kingdom remained, though it became weaker and weaker
every year that passed.

Then, one day, a rumour reached the king that a large army was marching against him. Vaguely
he recollected some tales he had heard about a magic cornet which could provide as many soldiers
as would serve to conquer the earth, and which had been removed by
his grandfather to a cellar.

Thither he hastened that he might renew his power once more, and in that black and slimy spot he
found the treasures indeed. But the table fell to pieces as he touched it, in the cornet there remained
only a few fragments of leathern belts which the rats had gnawed, and in the bag nothing but broken
bits of stone. And the king bowed his head to the doom that awaited him, and in his heart cursed the
ruin wrought by the pride and foolishness of himself and his forefathers.
The Rover of the Plain [From Contes Populaires Slaves, par Louis Leger.]
A long way off, near the sea coast of the east of Africa, there dwelt,
once upon a time, a man and his wife.

They had two children, a son and a daughter, whom they loved very much, and, like parents in other
countries, they often talked of the fine marriages the young people would make some day. Out
there both boys and girls marry early, and very soon, it seemed to the mother, a message was
sent by a rich man on the other side of the great hills offering a fat herd of oxen in exchange for the
girl. Everyone in the house and in the village rejoiced, and the
maiden was despatched to her new home.

When all was quiet again the father said to his son:'Now that we own such a splendid troop of oxen you
had better hasten and get yourself a wife, lest some illness should overtake them. Already we have seen
in the villages round about one or two damsels whose parents would gladly part with them for less
than half the herd. Therefore tell us which you like best, and we will buy her for you.'But
the son answered:'Not so; the maidens I have seen do not please me. If, indeed, I must marry, let
me travel and find a wife for myself.'' It shall be as you wish,'said the parents;'but if by-and-by
trouble should come of it, it will be your fault and not ours.'The youth, however, would not listen;
and bidding his father and mother farewell, set out on his search.

Far, far away he wandered, over mountains and across rivers, till he reached a village where the people
were quite different from those of his own race.

He glanced about him and noticed that the girls were fair to look
upon, as they pounded maize or stewed something that smelt very nice
in earthen pots-- especially if you were hot and tired; and when one
of the maidens turned round and offered the stranger some dinner,
he made up his mind that he would wed her and nobody else.

So he sent a message to her parents asking their leave to take her
for his wife, and they came next day to bring their answer.'We will
give you our daughter,'said they,'if you can pay a good price for
her.

Never was there so hardworking a girl; and how we shall do without her we cannot tell! Still--
no doubt your father and mother will come themselves and bring the price?'' No; I have the price with
me,'replied the young man; laying down a handful of gold pieces.'Here it is-- take it.'The old
couple's eyes glittered greedily; but custom forbade them to touch the price before all was
arranged.'At least,'said they, after a moment's pause,'we may expect them to fetch your wife
to her new home?'' No; they are not used to travelling,'answered the bridegroom.'Let the ceremony
be performed without delay, and we will set forth at once.

It is a long journey.'Then the parents called in the girl, who was lying in the sun outside the
hut, and, in the presence of all the village, a goat was killed, the sacred dance took place,
and a blessing was said over the heads of the young people. After that the bride was led aside
by her father, whose duty it was to bestow on her some parting advice
as to her conduct in her married life.'Be good to your husband's parents,'added
he,'and always do the will of your husband.'And the girl nodded her
head obediently.

Next it was the mother's turn; and, as was the custom of the tribe,
she spoke to her daughter:'Will you choose which of your sisters shall
go with you to cut your wood and carry your water?'' I do not want
any of them,'answered she;'they are no use.

They will drop the wood and spill the water.'' Then
will you have any of the other children?

There are enough to spare,'asked the mother again.

But the bride said quickly:'I will have none of them! You must give me our buffalo, the Rover
of the Plain; he alone shall serve me.'' What folly you talk!'cried
the parents.'Give you our buffalo, the Rover of the Plain?

Why, you know that our life depends on him. Here he is well fed and lies
on soft grass; but how can you tell what will befall him in another
country?

The food may be bad, he will die of hunger; and, if he dies we die also.'' No, no,'said the bride;'I
can look after him as well as you. Get him ready, for the sun is sinking and it is time we set
forth.'So she went away and put together a small pot filled with healing herms, a horn that
she used in tending sick people, a little knife, and a calabash containing deer fat; and, hiding
these about her, she took leave of her father and mother and started across the mountains by
the side of her husband.

But the young man did not see the buffalo that followed them, which had left his home to be the
servant of his wife.

No one ever knew how the news spread to the kraal that the young man was coming back, bringing a
wife with him; but, somehow or other, when the two entered the village, every man and woman
was standing in the road uttering shouts of welcome.'Ah, you are
not dead after all,'cried they;'and have found a wife to your liking,
though you would have none of our girls.

Well, well, you have chosen your own path; and if ill comes of it beware lest you grumble.'Next day
the husband took his wife to the fields and showed her which were
his, and which belonged to his mother.

The girl listened carefully to all he told her, and walked with him
back to the hut; but close to the door she stopped, and said:'I have
dropped my necklace of beads in the field, and I must go and look
for it.'But in truth she had done nothing of the sort, and it was
only an excuse to go and seek the buffalo.

The beast was crouching under a tree when she came up, and snorted
with pleasure at the sight of her.'You can roam about this field,
and this, and this,'she said,'for they belong to my husband; and that
is his wood, where you may hide yourself.

But the other fields are his mother's,
so beware lest you touch them.'' I will beware,'answered the buffalo;
and, patting his head, the girl left him.

Oh, how much better a servant he was than any of the little girls the
bride had refused to bring with her!

If she wanted water, she had only to cross the patch of maize behind
the hut and seek out the place where the buffalo lay hidden, and put
down her pail beside him.

Then she would sit at her ease while he went to the lake and brought the bucket back brimming over.
If she wanted wood, he would break the branches off the trees and lay
them at her feet.

And the villagers watched her return laden, and said to each other:'Surely
the girls of her country are stronger than our girls, for none of them
could cut so quickly or carry so much!'But then, nobody knew that
she had a buffalo for a servant.

Only, all this time she never gave the poor buffalo anything to eat,
because she had just one dish, out of which she and her husband ate;
while in her old home there was a dish put aside expressly for the
Rover of the Plain.

The buffalo bore it as long as he could; but, one day, when his mistress
bade him go to the lake and fetch water, his knees almost gave way
from hunger.

He kept
silence, however, till the evening, when he said to his mistress:'I
am nearly starved; I have not touched food since I came here.

I
can work no more.'' Alas!'answered she,'what can I do?

I have only one dish in the house.

You will have to steal some beans from the fields. Take a few here and a few there; but be sure not
to take too many from one place, or the owner may notice it.'Now
the buffalo had always lived an honest life, but if his mistress did
not feed him, he must get food for himself.

So that night, when all the village was asleep, he came out from the wood and ate a few beans here
and a few there, as his mistress had bidden him.

And when at last his hunger was satisfied, he crept back to his lair. But a buffalo is not a fairy,
and the next morning, when the women arrived to work in the fields, they stood still with astonishment,
and said to each other:'Just look at this; a savage beast has been destroying our crops, and we
can see the traces of his feet!'And they hurried to their homes to
tell their tale.

In the evening the girl crept out to the buffalo's hiding-place, and said to him:'They perceived
what happened, of course; so to-night you had better seek your supper
further off.'And the buffalo nodded his head and followed her counsel;
but in the morning, when these women also went out to work, the races
of hoofs were plainly to be seen, and they hastened to tell their
husbands, and begged them to bring their guns, and to watch for the
robber.

It happened that the stranger girl's husband was the best marksman
in all the village, and he hid himself behind the trunk of a tree and
waited. The buffalo, thinking that they would probably make a search
for him in the fields he had laid waste the evening before, returned
to the bean patch belonging to his mistress.

The young man saw him coming with amazement.'Why, it is a buffalo!'cried
he;'I never have beheld one in this country before!'And raising his
gun, he aimed just behind the ear.

The buffalo gave a leap into the air, and then fell dead.'It was a good
shot,'said the young man. And he ran to the village to tell them
that the thief was punished. When he entered his hut he found his
wife, who had somehow heard the news, twisting herself to and fro
and shedding tears.'Are you ill?'asked he.

And she answered:'Yes; I have pains all over my body.'But she was not ill at all, only very unhappy
at the death of the buffalo which had served her so well.

Her husband felt anxious, and sent for the medicine man; but though
she pretended to listen to him, she threw all his medicine out of
the door directly he had gone away.

With
the first rays of light the whole village was awake, and the women
set forth armed with baskets and the men with knives in order to
cut up the buffalo.

Only the girl remained in her hut; and after a while she too went to
join them, groaning and weeping as she walked along.'What are you
doing here?'asked her husband when he saw her.'If you are ill you
are better at home.'' Oh! I could not stay alone in the village,'said
she.

And
her mother-in-law left off her work to come and scold her, and to
tell her that she would kill herself if she did such foolish things.
But the girl would not listen and sat down and looked on.

When they had divided the buffalo's flesh, and each woman had the
family portion in her basket, the stranger wife got up and said:'Let
me have the head.'' You could never carry anything so heavy,'answered
the men,'and now you are ill besides.'' You do not know how strong
I am,'answered she.

And at last they gave it her. She did not walk to the village with
the others, but lingered behind, and, instead of entering her hut,
she slipped into the little shed where the pots for cooking and storing
maize were kept.

Then she laid down the buffalo's head and sat beside it.

Her
husband came to seek her, and begged her to leave the shed and go to
bed, as she must be tired out; but the girl would not stir, neither
would she attend to the words of her mother-in-law.'I wish you would
leave me alone!'she answered crossly.'It is impossible to sleep if
somebody is always coming in.'And she turned her back on them, and
would not even eat the food they had brought.

So they went away, and the young man soon stretched himself out on
his mat; but his wife's odd conduct made him anxious, and he lay
wake all night, listening.

When all was still the girl made a fire and boiled some water in a pot.
As soon as it was quite hot she shook in the medicine that she had brought
from home, and then, taking the buffalo's head, she made incisions
with her little knife behind the ear, and close to the temple where
the shot had struck him.

Next she applied the horn to the spot and blew with all her force till, at length, the blood
began to move. After that she spread some of the deer fat out of the
calabash over the wound, which she held in the steam of the hot water.

Last of all, she sang in a low voice a dirge over the Rover of the
Plain.

As she
chanted the final words the head moved, and the limbs came back.
The buffalo began to feel alive again and shook his horns, and stood
up and stretched himself.

Unluckily it was just at this moment that the husband said to himself:'I
wonder if she is crying still, and what is the matter with her! Perhaps
I had better go and see.'And he got up and, calling her by name, went
out to the shed.'Go away!

I don't want you!'she cried angrily. But it was too late. The buffalo had fallen to the ground,
dead, and with the wound in his head as before. The young man who, unlike most of his tribe, was afraid
of his wife, returned to his bed without having seen anything, but
wondering very much what she could be doing all this time.

After waiting a few minutes, she began her task over again, and at
the end the buffalo stood on his feet as before.

But just as the girl was rejoicing that her work was completed, in
came the husband once more to see what his wife was doing; and this
time he sat himself down in the hut, and said that he wished to watch
whatever was going on.

Then the girl took up the pitcher and all her other things and left
the shed, trying for the third time to bring the buffalo back to
life.

She was too late; the dawn was already breaking, and the head fell to the ground, dead and
corrupt as it was before. The girl entered the hut, where her husband and his mother were getting
ready to go out.'I want to go down to the lake, and bathe,'said she.'But
you could never walk so far,'answered they.'You are so tired, as it
is, that you can hardly stand!'However, in spite of their warnings,
the girl left the hut in the direction of the lake.

Very soon she came back weeping, and sobbed out:'I met some one in the
village who lives in my country, and he told me that my mother is
very, very ill, and if I do not go to her at once she will be dead
before I arrive.

I will return as soon as I can, and now farewell.'And she set forth in the direction of the mountains.
But this story was not true; she knew nothing about her mother, only she wanted an excuse to go
home and tell her family that their prophecies had come true, and that the buffalo was dead.
Balancing her basket on her head, she walked along, and directly
she had left the village behind her she broke out into the song of
the Rover of the Plain, and at last, at the end of the day, she came
to the group of huts where her parents lived.

Her friends all ran to meet her, and, weeping, she told them that the buffalo was dead. This
sad news spread like lightning through the country, and the people
flocked from far and near to bewail the loss of the beast who had
been their pride.'If you had only listened to us,'they cried,'he would
be alive now.

But you refused all the little girls we offered you, and would have
nothing but the buffalo.

And remember what the medicine-man said: "If the buffalo dies you die also!"'So they bewailed their
fate, one to the other, and for a while they did not perceive that the girl's husband was sitting
in their midst, leaning his gun against a tree. Then one man, turning,
beheld him, and bowed mockingly.'Hail, murderer! hail! you have slain
us all!'The young man stared, not knowing what he meant, and answered,
wonderingly:'I shot a buffalo; is that why you call me a murderer?''
A buffalo-- yes; but the servant of your wife!

It was he who carried the wood and drew the water. Did you not know it?'' No; I did not know it,'replied
the husband in surprise.'Why did no one tell me?

Of course I should not have shot him!'' Well, he is dead,'answered they,'and we must die too.'At this
the girl took a cup in which some poisonous herbs had been crushed,
and holding it in her hands, she wailed:'O my father, Rover of the
Plain!'Then drinking a deep draught from it, fell back dead.

One by one her parents, her brothers and her sisters, drank also
and died, singing a dirge to the memory of the buffalo.

The girl's husband looked on with horror; and returned sadly home across the mountains, and, entering
his hut, threw himself on the ground.  He called
upon the spirits of the great dead about him to witness the sincerity of his prayer.  He placed
offerings to the Dream People.  He prayed to the sun as it rose, and besought it of its strength
to strengthen him.

Sometimes when a young man had gone up alone from the village to this hill to pray, there were
seen at night more forms than one walking upon the summit of the hill, and sometimes voices
were heard.  Then it was known that the young man had seen his "dream," and that they had held
a council.

Very many men had thus prayed upon the summit of the Hill of Dreams in the days gone by.  Its
top was strewn with offerings.  It was a sacred place.  Sometimes the stone cairns did not
withstand the wolves, but none the less the place was consecrate.  Hither they bore the great
dead.  It was upon the Hill of Dreams that his people buried White Calf, the last great leader
of the Plains tribes, who fell in the combat with the not less savage giant who came with the
white men to hunt in the country near the Hill of Dreams.  Since that time the power of the
Plains tribes had waned, and they had scattered and passed away. The swarming white men--Visigoths,
Vandals--had found out this spot for centuries held mysteriously dear to the first peoples
of that country. They tore open the graves, scattered the childlike emblems, picked to pieces
the little packages of furs and claws, jibing at the "medicine" which in its time had meant
so much to the man who had left it there.

The Visigoths and Vandals laughed and smote upon their thighs as they thus destroyed the feeble
records of a faith gone by.  Yet with what more enduring and with how dissimilar a faith did
they replace that at which they mocked?  White but parallels red.  Our ways depart not widely
from the ways of those whom we supplanted, our religion is little more than theirs, our tokens
of faith but little different from theirs.  We still wonder, we still beseech, we still grope,
and continually we implore.  On the eminences of our lives the solitary still keep vigil. 
In the air about us there still are Voices as of old, there still are visions wistfully besought.
Now, as then, dwarfed, blighted, wandering humanity prays, lifting up its hands to something
above its narrow, circumscribing world.  Now, as then, the answer is sometimes given to a few
for all.  Now, as then, the solemn front of the Hill of Dreams still rises, dominating calmly
the wide land, keeping watch always out over the plains for those who are to come, for that
which is to be.  Warden of destiny, it well might smile at any temples we may build, at any
fetiches that we may offer up!

Toward the Hill of Dreams Franklin journeyed, because it had been written.  As he travelled
over the long miles he scarcely noted the fields, the fences, the flocks and herds now clinging
along the path of the iron rails.  He crossed the trails of the departed buffalo and of the
vanishing cattle, but his mind looked only forward, and he saw these records of the past but
dimly.  There, on the Hill of Dreams, he knew, there was answer for him if he sufficiently
besought; that answer not yet learned in all the varying days.  It seemed sure to him that
he should have a sign.[*]

Franklin looked out over a deserted and solitary land as he rode up to the foot of the hill.
There were no longer banners of dust where the wild game swept by, nor did the eye catch any
line of distant horsemen. It was another day.  Yet, as did the candidate of old, he left his
horse at the foot of the hill and went up quite alone.

It was afternoon as he sat down.  The silence and solitude folded him about, and the sun sank
so fitly slow that he hardly knew, and the solemn night swept softly on. . . .  Then he built
a little fire. . . . In the night, after many hours, he arose and lifted up his hands. . .
. At the foot of the hill the pony stopped cropping grass, tossed his head, and looked up intently
at the summit.

It was morning.  The sun rose calm and strong.  The solitary figure upon the hill sat motionless,
looking out.  There might have passed before him a perspective of the past, the Plains peopled
with their former life; the oncoming of the white men from below; the remnant of the passing
Latin race, typified in the unguided giant who, savage with savage, fought here near by, one
brutal force meeting another and both passing before one higher and yet more strong. Here she sat
and thought and thought, and the next morning she went back to the
queen and said:'I have come, madam, to make you an offer.

Shall I go to the king instead of you, and tell him of your sufferings, and that he has the most
charming baby in the world for his daughter? The way is long, and I travel slowly; but, sooner
or later, I shall be sure to arrive. Only, are you not afraid to be left without my protection?
Ponder the matter carefully; it is for you to decide.'' Oh, it needs no pondering,'cried the
queen joyfully, holding up her clasped hands, and making Muffette
do likewise, in token of gratitude.

But in order that he may know that you have come from me I will send him a letter.'And pricking
her arm, she wrote a few words with her blood on the corner of her handkerchief. Then tearing
it off, she gave it to the frog, and they bade each other farewell. It took the frog a year and
four days to mount the ten thousand steps that led to the upper world, but that was because she
was still under the spell of a wicked fairy.

By the time she reached the top, she was so tired that she had to remain for another year on
the banks of a stream to rest, and also to arrange the procession with
which she was to present herself before the king.

For she knew far too well what was due to herself and her relations, to appear at Court as if
she was a mere nobody. At length, after many consultations with her cap, the affair was settled,
and at the end of the second year after her parting with the queen they all set out. First walked
her bodyguard of grasshoppers, followed by her maids of honour, who
were those tiny green frogs you see in the fields, each one mounted
on a snail, and seated on a velvet saddle.

Next came the water-rats, dressed as pages, and lastly the frog herself, in a litter borne
by eight toads, and made of tortoiseshell.

Here she could lie at her ease, with her cap on her head, for it was quite large and roomy, and
could easily have held two eggs when the frog was not in it. The journey lasted seven years, and
all this time the queen suffered tortures of hope, though Muffette did her best to comfort
her. Indeed, she would most likely have died had not the Lion Fairy taken a fancy that the
child and her mother should go hunting with her in the upper world, and, in spite of her sorrows,
it was always a joy to the queen to see the sun again.

As for little Muffette, by the time she was seven her arrows seldom
missed their mark.

So, after all, the years of waiting passed more quickly than the queen had dared to hope. The frog
was always careful to maintain her dignity, and nothing would have persuaded her to show her face
in public places, or even along the high road, where there was a chance of meeting anyone.
But sometimes, when the procession had to cross a little stream, or go over a piece of marshy ground,
orders would be given for a halt; fine clothes were thrown off, bridles
were flung aside, and grasshoppers, water-rats, even the frog herself,
spent a delightful hour or two playing in the mud.

But at length the end was in sight, and the hardships were forgotten in the vision of the towers
of the king's palace; and, one bright morning, the cavalcade entered the gates with all the pomp
and circumstance of a royal embassy. And surely no ambassador had ever created such a sensation!
Door and windows, even the roofs of houses, were filled with people,
whose cheers reached the ears of the king. However, he had no time
to attend to such matters just then, as, after nine years, he had at
last consented to the entreaties of his courtiers, and was on the
eve of celebrating his second marriage.

The frog's heart beat high when her litter drew up before the steps of the palace, and leaning forward
she beckoned to her side one of the guards who were standing in his doorway.'I wish to see his Majesty,'said
he.'His Majesty is engaged, and can see no one,'answered the soldier.'His
Majesty will see ME,'returned the frog, fixing her eye upon him; and
somehow the man found himself leading the procession along the gallery
into the Hall of Audience, where the king sat surrounded by his nobles
arranging the dresses which everyone was to wear at his marriage
ceremony.

All stared in surprise as the procession advanced, and still more when the frog gave one bound
from the litter on to the floor, and with another landed on the arm of the chair of state.'I am
only just in time, sire,'began the frog;'had I been a day later you would have broken your
faith which you swore to the queen nine years ago.'' Her remembrance
will always be dear to me,'answered the king gently, though all present
expected him to rebuke the frog severely for her impertinence.

But know, Lady Frog, that a king can seldom do as he wishes, but must be bound by the desires
of his subjects.

For nine years I have resisted them; now I can do so no longer, and
have made choice of the fair young maiden playing at ball yonder.'' You
cannot wed her, however fair she may be, for the queen your wife is
still alive, and sends you this letter written in her own blood,'said
the frog, holding out the square of handkerchief as she spoke.'And,
what is more, you have a daughter who is nearly nine years old, and
more beautiful than all the other children in the world put together.'The
king turned pale when he heard these words, and his hand trembled
so that he could hardly read what the queen had written.

Then he kissed the handkerchief twice or thrice, and burst into tears,
and it was some minutes before he could speak.

When at length he found his voice he told his councillors that the writing was indeed that of the queen,
and now that he had the joy of knowing she was alive he could, of course, proceed no further with
his second marriage.

This naturally displeased the ambassadors who had conducted the bride to court, and one of them
inquired indignantly if he meant to put such an insult on the princess
on the word of a mere frog.'I am not a "mere frog," and I will give
you proof of it,'retorted the angry little creature.

And
putting on her cap, she cried: Fairies that are my friends, come hither!'And in a moment a crowd
of beautiful creatures, each one with a crown on her head, stood
before her.

Certainly none could have guessed that they were the snails, water-rats, and grasshoppers from which
she had chosen her retinue. At a sign from the frog the fairies danced a ballet, with which
everyone was so delighted that they begged to have to repeated; but
now it was not youths and maidens who were dancing, but flowers.

Then these again melted into fountains, whose waters interlaced and, rushing down the sides of the hall,
poured out in a cascade down the steps, and formed a river found
the castle, with the most beautiful little boats upon it, all painted
and gilded.'Oh, let us go in them for a sail!'cried the princess,
who had long ago left her game of ball for a sight of these marvels,
and, as she was bent upon it, the ambassadors, who had been charged
never to lose sight of her, were obliged to go also, though they never
entered a boat if they could help it.

But the moment they and the princess had seated themselves on the soft cushions, river and boats vanished,
and the princess and the ambassadors vanished too. Instead the snails and grasshoppers and water-rats
stood round the frog in their natural shapes.'Perhaps,'said she,'your Majesty may now be convinced that
I am a fairy and speak the truth.

Therefore lose no time in setting in order the affairs of your kingdom
and go in search of your wife.

Here is a ring that will admit you into the presence of the queen, and will likewise allow you
to address unharmed the Lion Fairy, though she is the most terrible creature that ever existed.'By
this time the king had forgotten all about the princess, whom he had only chosen to please
his people, and was as eager to depart on his journey as the frog was for him to go. He made one
of his ministers regent of the kingdom, and gave the frog everything her heart could desire;
and with her ring on his finger he rode away to the outskirts of
the forest.

Here he dismounted, and bidding his horse go home, he pushed forward on foot. Having nothing to guide
him as to where he was likely to find the entrance of the under-world,
the king wandered hither and thither for a long while, till, one
day, while he was resting under a tree, a voice spoke to him.'Why
do you give yourself so much trouble for nought, when you might know
what you want to know for the asking?

Alone you will never discover the path that leads to your wife.'Much startled, the king looked
about him.

He could see nothing, and somehow, when he thought about it, the voice seemed as if it were part
of himself. Suddenly his eyes fell on the ring, and he understood.'Fool that I was!'cried he;'and
how much precious time have I wasted? Dear ring, I beseech you, grant me a vision of my wife and
my daughter!'And even as he spoke there flashed past him a huge lioness, followed by a lady and
a beautiful young maid mounted on fairy horses.

Almost fainting with joy he gazed after them, and then sank back trembling
on the ground.'Oh, lead me to them, lead me to them!'he exclaimed.
And the ring, bidding him take courage, conducted him safely to the dismal
place where his wife had lived for ten years. Now the Lion Fairy knew
beforehand of his expected presence in her dominions, and she ordered
a palace of crystal to be built in the middle of the lake of quicksilver;
and in order to make it more difficult of approach she let it float
whither it would.

Immediately after their return from the chase, where the king had seen them, she conveyed the queen
and Muffette into the palace, and put them under the guard of the monsters of the lake, who one
and all had fallen in love with the princess.

They were horribly jealous, and ready to eat each other up for her sake, so they readily accepted
the charge. Some stationed themselves round the floating palace, some sat by the door, while
the smallest and lightest perched themselves on the roof. Of course the king was quite ignorant
of these arrangements, and boldly entered the palace of the Lion Fairy, who was waiting for
him, with her tail lashing furiously, for she still kept her lion's
shape.

With a roar that shook the walls she flung herself upon him; but he
was on the watch, and a blow from his sword cut off the paw she had
put forth to strike him dead.

She fell back, and with his helmet still on and his shield up, he set his foot on her throat.'Give
me back the wife and the child you have stolen from me,'he said,'or you shall not live another second!'But
the fairy answered:'Look through the window at that lake and see
if it is in my power to give them to you.'And the king looked, and
through the crystal walls he beheld his wife and daughter floating
on the quicksilver.

At that sight the Lion Fairy and all her wickedness was forgotten.
Flinging off his helmet, he shouted to them with all his might. The
queen knew his voice, and she and Muffette ran to the window and held
out their hands.

Then the king swore a solemn oath that he would never leave the spot without taking them if
it should cost him his life; and he meant it, though at the moment
he did not know what he was undertaking.

Three years passed by, and the king was no nearer to obtaining his
heart's desire.

He had suffered every hardship that could be imagined-- nettles had been his bed, wild fruits
more bitter than gall his food, while his days had been spent in
fighting the hideous monsters which kept him from the palace.

He had not advanced one single step, nor gained one solitary advantage.

Now he was almost in despair, and ready to defy everything and throw himself into the lake. It was
at this moment of his blackest misery that, one night, a dragon who had long watched him from
the roof crept to his side.'You thought that love would conquer all
obstacles,'said he;'well, you have found it hasn't! But if you will
swear to me by your crown and sceptre that you will give me a dinner
of the food that I never grow tired of, whenever I choose to ask for
it, I will enable you to reach your wife and daughter.'Ah, how glad
the king was to hear that!

What oath would he not have taken so as to clasp his wife and child
in is arms?

Joyfully he swore whatever the dragon asked of him; then he jumped on his back, and in another
instant would have been carried by the strong wings into the castle
if the nearest monsters had not happened to awake and hear the noise
of talking and swum to the shore to give battle.

The fight was long and hard, and when the king at last beat back his
foes another struggle awaited him. At the entrance gigantic bats,
owls, and crows set upon him from all sides; but the dragon had teeth and
claws, while the queen broke off sharp bits of glass and stabbed
and cut in her anxiety to help her husband.

At length the horrible creatures flew away; a sound like thunder was heard, the palace and the
monsters vanished, while, at the same moment-- no one knew how--
the king found himself standing with his wife and daughter in the hall
of his own home.

The dragon had disappeared with all the rest, and for some years no more was heard or thought of
him. Muffette grew every day more beautiful, and when she was fourteen the kings and emperors of
the neighbouring countries sent to ask her in marriage for themselves
or their sons.

For a long time the girl turned a deaf ear to all their prayers; but at length a young prince
of rare gifts touched her heart, and though the king had left her free to choose what husband
she would, he had secretly hoped that out of all the wooers this one might be his son-in-law. So
they were betrothed that some day with great pomp, and then with many tears, the prince set
out for his father's court, bearing with him a portrait of Muffette.
The days passed slowly to Muffette, in spite of her brave efforts
to occupy herself and not to sadden other people by her complaints.

One morning she was playing on her harp in the queen's chamber when
the king burst into the room and clasped his daughter in his arms
with an energy that almost frightened her.'Oh, my child! my dear child!
why were you ever born?'cried he, as soon as he could speak.'Is the
prince dead?'faltered Muffette, growing white and cold.'No, no; but--
oh, how can I tell you!'And he sank down on a pile of cushions while
his wife and daughter knelt beside him.

At length he was able to tell his tale, and a terrible one it was!

There
had just arrived at court a huge giant, as ambassador from the dragon
by whose help the king had rescued the queen and Muffette from the
crystal palace.

The dragon had been very busy for many years past, and had quite forgotten the princess till the
news of her betrothal reached his ears.

Then he remembered the bargain he had made with her father; and the more he heard of Muffette the
more he felt sure she would make a delicious dish. So he had ordered the giant who was his servant
to fetch her at once. No words would paint the horror of both the queen
and the princess as they listened to this dreadful doom.

They rushed instantly to the hall, where the giant was awaiting them, and flinging themselves at his
feet implored him to take the kingdom if he would, but to have pity
on the princess. The giant looked at them kindly, for he was not at
all hard-hearted, but said that he had no power to do anything, and
that if the princess did not go with him quietly the dragon would
come himself.

Several days went by, and the king and queen hardly ceased from entreating the aid of the
giant, who by this time was getting weary of waiting.'There is only
one way of helping you,'he said at last,'and that is to marry the
princess to my nephew, who, besides being young and handsome, has
been trained in magic, and will know how to keep her safe from the
dragon.'' Oh, thank you, thank you!'cried the parents, clasping his
great hands to their breasts.'You have indeed lifted a load from us.

She shall have half the kingdom for her dowry.'But Muffette stood up and thrust them aside.'I will
not buy my life with faithlessness,'she said proudly;'and I will
go with you this moment to the dragon's abode.'And all her father's
and mother's tears and prayers availed nothing to move her.

The next morning Muffette was put into a litter, and, guarded by the
giant and followed by the king and queen and the weeping maids of honour,
they started for the foot of the mountain where the dragon had his
castle. The way, though rough and stony, seemed all too short, and
when they reached the spot appointed by the dragon the giant ordered
the men who bore the litter to stand still.'It is time for you to
bid farewell to your daughter,'said he;'for I see the dragon coming
to us.'It was true; a cloud appeared to pass over the sun, for between
them and it they could all discern dimly a huge body half a mile long
approaching nearer and nearer.

At first the king could not believe
that this was the small beast who had seemed so friendly on the shore
of the lake of quicksilver but then he knew very little of necromancy,
and had never studied the art of expanding and contracting his body.

But it was the dragon and nothing else, whose six wings were carrying him forward as fast as
might be, considering his great weight and the length of his tail, which had fifty twists
and a half. He came quickly, yes; but the frog, mounted on a greyhound, and wearing her cap on her head,
went quicker still. Entering a room where the prince was sitting gazing at the portrait of
his betrothed, she cried to him:'What are you doing lingering here,
when the life of the princess is nearing its last moment?

In the courtyard you will find a green horse with three heads and twelve feet, and by its
side a sword eighteen yards long. Hasten, lest you should be too late!'The fight lasted all day, and
the prince's strength was well-nigh spent, when the dragon, thinking that the victory was
won, opened his jaws to give a roar of triumph.

Franklin and Mary Ellen sat looking out before them, silent.  At last he turned and placed
his hand over the two that lay knit loosely in her lap.  Mary Ellen stirred, her throat moved,
but she could not speak. Franklin leaned forward and looked into her face.

"I knew it must be so," he whispered quietly.

"What--what must you think ?" broke out Mary Ellen, angry that she could not resist.

"There, there, dearest!" he said, "don't trouble.  I knew it was to be. I came straight to
you."  He tightened his grip upon her hands.  Mary Ellen straightened and looked him in the face.

"I'll admit it," she said. It is my brother!

"Here Mathilde, still holding out the cross, said in a loud whisper,"'Sh,'sh! My children,
go not to the palace, for there is Francois Bigot, and he has a devil.

But if you have no cottage, I will give you a home. I know the way
to it up in the hills.

Poor children, see, I will make you happy.

"She took a dozen little wooden crosses from her girdle, and, stepping round the circle, gave each
person one.

No man refused, save a young militiaman; and when, with a sneering laugh, he threw his into
the fire, she stooped over him and said," Poor boy! poor boy!

"She put her fingers on her lips, and whispered," Beati immaculati-- miserere
mei, Deus, "stray phrases gathered from the liturgy, pregnant to her
brain, order and truth flashing out of wandering and fantasy.

No one of the girls refused, but sat there, some laughing nervously,
some silent; for this mad maid had come to be surrounded with a superstitious
reverence in the eyes of the common people.

It was said she had a home in the hills somewhere, to which she disappeared
for days and weeks, and came back hung about the girdle with crosses;
and it was also said that her red robe never became frayed, shabby,
or disordered.

Suddenly she turned and left them. I let her pass, unchecked, and went on towards the cathedral,
humming an old French chanson. I did this because now and then I met soldiers and patrols, and
my free and careless manner disarmed notice. Once or twice drunken soldiers stopped me and threw
their arms about me, saluting me on the cheeks a la mode, asking themselves to drink with me. Getting
free of them, I came on my way, and was glad to reach the cathedral
unchallenged.

Here and there a broken buttress or a splintered wall told where
our guns had played upon it, but inside I could hear an organ playing
and a Miserere being chanted.

I went round to its rear, and there I saw the little house described by the sentinel at the
chateau.  Mary Ellen felt her senses melting into a mysterious, bewildering
joy.  Unconsciously she swayed slightly against the shoulder of her lover.  In her heart the
music of the bird thrilled on, even when the tinkle of the little bell ceased, even when Franklin,
stepping from the car, held up his hands to her and whispered, "Come."

