A DEFENCE OF POETRY AND OTHER ESSAYS

By Percy Bysshe Shelley

ON LOVE ON LIFE IN A FUTURE STATE ON THE PUNISHMENT OF DEATH SPECULATIONS ON METAPHYSICS SPECULATIONS
ON MORALS ON THE LITERATURE, THE ARTS AND THE MANNERS OF THE ATHENIANS ON THE SYMPOSIUM, OR
PREFACE TO THE BANQUET OF PLATO A DEFENCE OF POETRY

ON LOVE

What is love? Ask him who lives, what is life? ask him who adores, what is God?

I know not the internal constitution of other men, nor even thine, whom I now address. I see
that in some external attributes they resemble me, but when, misled by that appearance, I have
thought to appeal to something in common, and unburthen my inmost soul to them, I have found
my language misunderstood, like one in a distant and savage land. The more opportunities they
have afforded me for experience, the wider has appeared the interval between us, and to a greater
distance have the points of sympathy been withdrawn. With a spirit ill fitted to sustain such
proof, trembling and feeble through its tenderness, I have everywhere sought sympathy and have
found only repulse and disappointment.

Thou demandest what is love? It is that powerful attraction towards all that we conceive, or
fear, or hope beyond ourselves, when we find within our own thoughts the chasm of an insufficient
void, and seek to awaken in all things that are, a community with what we experience within
ourselves. If we reason, we would be understood; if we imagine, we would that the airy children
of our brain were born anew within another's; if we feel, we would that another's nerves should
vibrate to our own, that the beams of their eyes should kindle at once and mix and melt into
our own, that lips of motionless ice should not reply to lips quivering and burning with the
heart's best blood. This is Love. This is the bond and the sanction which connects not only
man with man, but with everything which exists. We are born into the world, and there is something
within us which, from the instant that we live, more and more thirsts after its likeness. It
is probably in correspondence with this law that the infant drains milk from the bosom of its
mother; this propensity develops itself with the development of our nature. We dimly see within
our intellectual nature a miniature as it were of our entire self, yet deprived of all that
we condemn or despise, the ideal prototype of everything excellent or lovely that we are capable
of conceiving as belonging to the nature of man. Not only the portrait of our external being,
but an assemblage of the minutest particles of which our nature is composed;[Footnote: These
words are ineffectual and metaphorical. Most words are so--No help!] a mirror whose surface
reflects only the forms of purity and brightness; a soul within our soul that describes a circle
around its proper paradise, which pain, and sorrow, and evil dare not overleap. To this we
eagerly refer all sensations, thirsting that they should resemble or correspond with it. The
discovery of its antitype; the meeting with an understanding capable of clearly estimating
our own; an imagination which should enter into and seize upon the subtle and delicate peculiarities
which we have delighted to cherish and unfold in secret; with a frame whose nerves, like the
chords of two exquisite lyres, strung to the accompaniment of one delightful voice, vibrate
with the vibrations of our own; and of a combination of all these in such proportion as the
type within demands; this is the invisible and unattainable point to which Love tends; and
to attain which, it urges forth the powers of man to arrest the faintest shadow of that, without
the possession of which there is no rest nor respite to the heart over which it rules. Hence
in solitude, or in that deserted state when we are surrounded by human beings, and yet they
sympathize not with us, we love the flowers, the grass, and the waters, and the sky. In the
motion of the very leaves of spring, in the blue air, there is then found a secret correspondence
with our heart. There is eloquence in the tongueless wind, and a melody in the flowing brooks
and the rustling of the reeds beside them, which by their inconceivable relation to something
within the soul, awaken the spirits to a dance of breathless rapture, and bring tears of mysterious
tenderness to the eyes, like the enthusiasm of patriotic success, or the voice of one beloved
singing to you alone. Sterne says that, if he were in a desert, he would love some cypress.
So soon as this want or power is dead, man becomes the living sepulchre of himself, and what
yet survives is the mere husk of what once he was.

[1815; publ. 1840]

ON LIFE

Life and the world, or whatever we call that which we are and feel, is an astonishing thing.
The mist of familiarity obscures from us the wonder of our being. We are struck with admiration
at some of its transient modifications, but it is itself the great miracle. What are changes
of empires, the wreck of dynasties, with the opinions which supported them; what is the birth
and the extinction of religious and of political systems to life? What are the revolutions
of the globe which we inhabit, and the operations of the elements of which it is composed,
compared with life? What is the universe of stars, and suns, of which this inhabited earth
is one, and their motions, and their destiny, compared with life? Life, the great miracle,
we admire not, because it is so miraculous. It is well that we are thus shielded by the familiarity
of what is at once so certain and so unfathomable, from an astonishment which would otherwise
absorb and overawe the functions of that which is its object.

If any artist, I do not say had executed, but had merely conceived in his mind the system of
the sun, and the stars, and planets, they not existing, and had painted to us in words, or
upon canvas, the spectacle now afforded by the nightly cope of heaven, and illustrated it by
the wisdom of astronomy, great would be our admiration. The multitude of men care not for them.
It is thus with Life--that which includes all.

What is life? Thoughts and feelings arise, with or without our will, and we employ words to
express them. We are born, and our birth is unremembered, and our infancy remembered but in
fragments; we live on, and in living we lose the apprehension of life. How vain is it to think
that words can penetrate the mystery of our being! Rightly used they may make evident our ignorance
to ourselves, and this is much. For what are we? Whence do we come? and whither do we go? Is
birth the commencement, is death the conclusion of our being? What is birth and death?

The most refined abstractions of logic conduct to a view of life, which, though startling to
the apprehension, is, in fact, that which the habitual sense of its repeated combinations has
extinguished in us. It strips, as it were, the painted curtain from this scene of things. I
confess that I am one of those who are unable to refuse my assent to the conclusions of those
philosophers who assert that nothing exists but as it is perceived.

