As I placed those poppies in a box, on a bed of green moss, I heard them chuckle together,
with some surprise and much glee. "What a kind fool he is," said the first poppy, "to buy me,
and take me away from those disagreeable roses, and other hateful blossoms in that damp, musty
window."

"I heard," said the second poppy, "one sweet lily of the valley whisper to the others of its
simple kind that we would die where we were unnoticed, undesired by any one--how little it knew!"

"How cool and green this bed of moss," cried the third poppy; "it is a most excellent place
to die upon. I am willing, I am happy."

"Nay," said the fourth poppy, "you may die on her breast if you will. She may take you up and
put you into a jar of clear water. She may watch you slowly open your sleepy dark eye. She
may lean over you; then let your passionate breath but touch her on the white brow, and she
may tenderly thrust you into her whiter bosom, and quickly yield herself, and you, to an all-powerful
forgetfulness. She may twine me into her dark hair, and I will calm the throb of her blue-veined
temples, and bring upon her a sleep and a forgetting."

The fifth poppy trembled with joyful expectation, but said not a word.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward the close of the next day I went to her, the woman that I knew, to whom I had sent the
poppies.

I trod the stairway softly, oh, so softly, that led to her door. Shadows from out of the unlighted
hall danced about me, and the sounds of music--harp music--pleased me with a strain of remembered
chords.

She rose to greet me with provoking but delecious languor. She gave me the tips of her rosy
fingers. Her lips moved as if in speech, but no words reached me; she barely smiled. In a priceless
vase near the open window they held their heads in high disdain--those four red poppies who
had gleefully chuckled and chatted together on the yesterday; but the fifth and silent poppy
drooped upon her breast. I turned to go; she did not stay me; I stole to the door. "Take us
away with you," cried those four garrulous poppies; "we are willing to die, and at once if
need be, but not here in her hateful presence. Take us away." But the poppy on her breast only
drooped and drooped the more and said not a word.

I opened the door. The shadows had fled--the hall was a blaze of light. The music had ceased--only
the noise of street below broke the silence. "If thus you let me go, I will not return again,"
I said.

The woman did not speak, neither did she stir. But the poppy on her breast with drooping head
uplifted softly cried, "Go, quickly go, and--forget!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I went down the broad stairway between a row of bright lights--a dazzling mockery--I went out
into the night. I passed by a certain garden where red poppies grew. I leaned over the low
wall. I buried my hot face among them. I crushed them in my hands and stained my temples with
their quivering blooms. But all to no purpose; they did not, could not bring forgetfulness.
I am thinking always of that woman, of those four red poppies, and of that one red poppy which
drooped on her breast that night and said to me, "Go, quickly go, and--forget."

THE NEW CURE FOR HEART-BREAK

TO LITTLE MISS PREVIOUS

III

THE NEW CURE FOR HEART-BREAK

A CHRISTMAS GIFT STORY

  Hat Mark.
  Shaving Papers.
  Embroidered Slippers.
  Onyx Cuff Buttons.
  Inkstand from Italy.
  Her Picture--in Silver Frame.
  Scarf-pin with Pearl and Diamonds.

It was Christmas eve, several years ago. We had dined together at the Cafe de la Paix, near
the Grand Opera-house, Paris. The dinner was good, the wine excellent; but George Addison was
best of all.

I have never known why he should have told me that night of his "Cure for Heart-break."

Was it the grouse?

Was it the Burgundy?

Was it some strange influence?

George Addison is the man who first came to the front in the literary world as the careful
and successful editor of that now valuable book, "The Poets and Poetry of the South." A fresh
edition--about the eleventh--is promised for the New Year.

But he fairly leaped into fame, and its unusual companion, large wealth, when he gave ungrudgingly
to his anxious and generous public that curious little hand-book, "The Perfected Letter Writer."

Young ladies who live in the country buy it clandestinely, and eagerly read it privately, secretly,
in their own quiet bed-chambers during the silent watches of the night. When occasion demands
they boldly make extracts therefrom, which they awkwardly project into their labored notes
and epistles of much length and less grace.

Even women of fashion have been known to buy it--and use it, not wisely, but freely.

There are men, too, who consult its pages reverently, frequently, and oftentimes, I must add,
with most disastrous results. It is, as is well known, a valuable but dangerous manual.

Therefore the name of George Addison is a household word, although he is mentioned as the editor
of "Poets and Poetry of the South," and never as the author of "The Perfected Letter Writer"--a
book which is seldom discussed. But nothing, until now, has been known of his "New Cure for
Heart-break." If he had lived a few years longer, and could have found time from the more heavy
duties of his busy life, he doubtless would have turned to some use the practical workings
of his wonderful cure. But Death, with that old fondness for a shining mark, has seen fit to
remove him from this, the scene of his earthly labors (See rural sheet obituary notice).

In the early career of George Addison, when he was obscure and desperately poor, he met her--that
inevitable she--Florence Barlowe.

She had three irresistible charms. She was very young; she was very pretty--and, most charming
of all, she was very silly. Time could steal away--and doubtless did--the youth. Time could
ravage--and surely must have--her beauty. But nothing could--and nothing did--mar the uninterrupted
splendor of her foolishness. She was born a fool, lived a fool, and undoubtedly must have died--if
dead--the death of a glorious and triumphant fool.

George Addison was from the first attentive. But he was shy in those days, and knew not how,
in words, to frame the love that filled his heart and rose like a lump in his throat whenever
he saw her pretty face and heard her soft voice. She was a fool, it is true, but she was like
so many fools of her kind, full of a subtle craft which acts like the tempting bait on the
hook that catches the unwary fish.

So she made him a present--it was of her own handiwork. Each Christmas tide she repeated the
process; each year enriching the hook with a more tempting offer. It took her seven years to
graduate in presents from a hat mark to a scarf-pin of little diamonds and a big rare pearl;
but somehow there was a hitch and a halt within the heart of George Addison.

He never said the word. He just loved her, and waited. She grew desperate. She startled him
by instituting a quarrel, which was not very much of a quarrel, for it takes two, I have always
understood, to make one--in all senses of the word. He did not quite understand, and told her
so. She wept in his presence, and forbade him the house. She made her father threaten his life,
which was now almost a burden. He still did not understand; so he did--from her standpoint
the worst thing possible--nothing. While she was impatiently waiting at home for a reconciliation
and a proposal--which never came--he was dumbfounded with grief, and employed his time, tearfully
of course, selecting all of her favorite poems--for she was fond of a certain kind of poetry.
Then it was that the idea of "Poets and Poetry of the South" came upon him. The popularity
of the book was assured in advance, because he selected only those poems that he thought would
please Florence Barlowe--and her taste was average--so is the taste, I am told, of the general
public.

About a year after their rupture his compilation volume appeared, and was an instantaneous
success. The approach of Christmas made him painfully realize their estrangement. Finally he
awakened to a full knowledge of the situation. A slow anger started up within him and gradually
swept over him like a tidal wave.

It was Christmas eve.

He lighted his lamp--his quarters were still poor and very cheerless. He unlocked a drawer
which contained his few treasures, and there they were--the seven gifts entire from the fair
hand of pretty Florence Barlowe. There was also a little packet of letters, notes, and invitations
from the same hand.

"She never really cared for me," he said, as he tenderly drew them out from their place one
by one. "I want a love-cure," he added, "I must have one, for I must be done with this, and
forever."

Now, gentle reader, do not censure him, this George Addison, lover, for he straightway sent
them back to her? No, not that--but this: He deliberately--although it gave him a pang--arranged
to dispose of them all as Christmas gifts to his friends and relatives. It was after this fashion:
The hat-mark, G.A., done in violent yellow, on a glaring bit of blue satin, was hard to dispose
of; but he finally thought of a little nephew--the incarnation of a small devil--so he wrote
a note to the mother, inclosing the hat-mark, with this explanation: "G.A., you must readily
see, stands for 'Good Always.' What could be more appropriate for your darling child?"

The shaving papers, like Joseph's coat of many colors, he sent to Uncle Hezekiah, an old family
servant, who delighted in them, even until the hour of his happy death, unused, for who ever
heard of using beautiful shaving papers!

The embroidered slippers, which had made up a trifle small, were mailed with much glee to a
distant relative in Texas on a cattle ranch, where slippers were unnecessary--but Addison did
not consider himself responsible for that--for he had discovered from personal experience that
the less sensible the gift the more often it is given.

The onyx cuff buttons were well worn, and had rendered excellent service, although they were
not good to look upon. Yet, Jennings, the chiropodist, had taken a fancy to them long ago,
so he concluded to let him have them on the one condition that they must not be worn to the
house of the Hon. Junius Barlowe, where it was his custom to go on the third Sunday of every
month, and never to the Addison house, which he visited on the second Thursday of each month.

The inkstand from Italy was large in promise, but poor in fulfillment--the place for ink was
infinitesimally small. George tried to use it once when he had three important thoughts to
transmit. He wrote out two of them, but the third thought had to go dry. There was a much decayed
gentleman of the old school who lived across the street from the Addisons. It had been the
custom of George Addison's grandfather, and father also, to always send this individual some
useful gift on Christmas Day; therefore the inkstand from Italy was sent over the next morning.
It failed to give what might be termed complete satisfaction, but the old neighbor had not
been satisfied for a small matter of fifty years. Therefore George held himself, and he was
perfectly right, blameless.

