The exhortation of the Porras brothers had meanwhile produced its effect, and it was decided
that six of the strongest men among the mutineers should make for Bartholomew himself and try
to capture or kill him.  The fierce Adelantado, finding himself surrounded by six assailants,
who seemed to be directing their whole effort against his life, swung his sword in a berserk
rage and slashed about him, to such good purpose that four or five of his assailants soon lay
round him killed or wounded.  At this point Francisco de Porras rushed in and cleft the shield
held by Bartholomew, severely wounding the hand that held it; but the sword. stuck in the shield,
and while Porras was endeavouring to draw it out Bartholomew and some others closed upon him,
and after a sharp struggle took him prisoner.  The battle, which was a short one, had been
meanwhile raging fiercely among the rest of the forces; but when the mutineers saw their leader
taken prisoner, and many of their number lying dead or wounded, they scattered and fled, but
not before Bartholomew's force had taken several prisoners.  It was then found that, although
the rebels had suffered heavily, none of Bartholomew's men were killed, and only one other
besides himself was wounded.  The next day the mutineers all came in to surrender, submitting
an abject oath of allegiance; and Columbus, always strangely magnanimous to rebels and insurgents,
pardoned them all with the exception of Francisco de Porras, who, one is glad to know, was
confined in irons to be sent to Spain for trial.

This submission, which was due to the prompt action of Bartholomew rather than to the somewhat
feeble diplomacy of the Admiral, took place on March 20th, and proved somewhat embarrassing
to Columbus.  He could put no faith in the oaths and protestations of the mutineers; and he
was very doubtful about the wisdom of establishing them once more on the wrecks with the hitherto
orderly remnant.  He therefore divided them up into several bands, and placing each under the
command of an officer whom he could trust, he supplied them with trinkets and despatched them
to different parts of the island, for the purpose of collecting provisions and carrying on
barter with the natives.  By this means the last month or two of this most trying and exciting
sojourn on the island of Jamaica were passed in some measure of peace; and towards the end
of June it was brought to an end by the arrival of two caravels.  One of them was the ship
purchased by Diego Mendez out of the three which had arrived from Spain; and the other had
been despatched by Ovando in deference, it is said, to public feeling in San Domingo, which
had been so influenced by Mendez's account of the Admiral's heroic adventures that Ovando dared
not neglect him any longer.  Moreover, if it had ever been his hope that the Admiral would
perish on the island of Jamaica, that hope was now doomed to frustration, and, as he was to
be rescued in spite of all, Ovando no doubt thought that he might as well, for the sake of
appearances, have a hand in the rescue.

The two caravels, laden with what was worth saving from the two abandoned hulks, and carrying
what was left of the Admiral's company, sailed from Jamaica on June 28, 1504.  Columbus's joy,
as we may imagine, was deep and heartfelt.  He said afterwards to Mendez that it was the happiest
day of his life, for that he had never hoped to leave the place alive.

The mission of Mendez, then, had been successful, although he had had to
wait for eight months to fulfil it.  He himself, in accordance with
Columbus's instructions, had gone to Spain in another caravel of the
fleet out of which he had purchased the relieving ship; and as he passes
out of our narrative we may now take our farewell of him.  Among the many
men employed in the Admiral's service no figure stands out so brightly as
that of Diego Mendez; and his record, almost alone of those whose service
of the Admiral earned them office and distinction, is unblotted by any
stain of crime or treachery.  He was as brave as a lion and as faithful
as a dog, and throughout his life remained true to his ideal of service
to the Admiral and his descendants.  He was rewarded by King Ferdinand
for his distinguished services, and allowed to bear a canoe on his
coat-of-arms; he was with the Admiral at his death-bed at Valladolid,
and when he himself came to die thirty years afterwards in the same
place he made a will in which he incorporated a brief record of the
events of the adventurous voyage in which he had borne the principal
part, and also enshrined his devotion to the name and family of
Columbus.  His demands for himself were very modest, although there is
reason to fear that they were never properly fulfilled.
                            He died, etc.
                  He begs from charity a PATERNOSTER
                           and an AVE MARIA.

Surely he deserves them, if ever an honourable gentleman did.

CHAPTER VII

THE HERITAGE OF HATRED

Although the journey from Jamaica to Espanola had been accomplished in four days by Mendez
in his canoe, the caravels conveying the party rescued from Puerto Santa Gloria were seven
weary weeks on this short voyage; a strong north-west wind combining with the west-going current
to make their progress to the north-west impossible for weeks at a time.  It was not until
the 13th of August 1503 that they anchored in the harbour of San Domingo, and Columbus once
more set foot, after an absence of more than two years, on the territory from the governorship
of which he had been deposed.

He was well enough received by Ovando, who came down in state to meet him, lodged him in his
own house, and saw that he was treated with the distinction suitable to his high station. 
The Spanish colony, moreover, seemed to have made something of a hero of Columbus during his
long absence, and they received him with enthusiasm.  But his satisfaction in being in San
Domingo ended with that.  He was constantly made to feel that it was Ovando and not he who
was the ruler there;--and Ovando emphasised the difference between them by numerous acts of
highhanded authority, some of them of a kind calculated to be extremely mortifying to the Admiral.
Among these things he insisted upon releasing Porras, whom Columbus had confined in chains;
and he talked of punishing those faithful followers of Columbus who had taken part in the battle
between Bartholomew and the rebels, because in this fight some of the followers of Porras had
been killed.  Acts like these produced weary bickerings and arguments between Ovando and Columbus,
unprofitable to them, unprofitable to us.  The Admiral seems now to have relapsed into a condition
in which he cared only for two things, his honours and his emoluments.  Over every authoritative
act of Ovando's there was a weary squabble between him and the Admiral, Ovando claiming his
right of jurisdiction over the whole territory of the New World, including Jamaica, and Columbus
insisting that by his commission and letters of authority he had been placed in sole charge
of the members of his own expedition.

And then, as regards his emoluments, the Admiral considered himself (and not without justice)
to have been treated most unfairly.  By the extravagant terms of his original agreement he
was, as we know, entitled to a share of all rents and dues, as well as of the gold collected;
but it had been no one's business to collect these for him, and every one's business to neglect
them.  No one had cared; no one had kept any accounts of what was due to the Admiral; he could
not find out what had been paid and what had not been paid.  He accused Ovando of having impeded
his agent Carvajal in his duty of collecting the Admiral's revenues, and of disobeying the
express orders of Queen Isabella in that matter; and so on-a state of affairs the most wearisome,
sordid, and unprofitable in which any man could be involved.

And if Columbus turned his eyes from the office in San Domingo inland to that Paradise which
he had entered twelve years before, what change and ruin, dreary, horrible and complete, did
he not discover!  The birds still sang, and the nights were still like May in Cordova; but
upon that happy harmony the sound of piteous cries and shrieks had long since broken, and along
and black December night of misery had spread its pall over the island.  Wherever he went,
Columbus found the same evidence of ruin and desolation.  Where once innumerable handsome natives
had thronged the forests and the villages, there were now silence and smoking ruin, and the
few natives that he met were emaciated, terrified, dying. Did he reflect, I wonder, that some
part of the responsibility of all this horror rested on him?  That many a system of island
government, the machinery of which was now fed by a steady stream of human lives, had been
set going by him in ignorance, or greed of quick commercial returns? It is probable that he
did not; for he now permanently regarded himself as a much-injured man, and was far too much
occupied with his own wrongs to realise that they were as nothing compared with the monstrous
stream of wrong and suffering that he had unwittingly sent flowing into the world.

In the island under Ovando's rule Columbus saw the logical results of his own original principles
of government, which had recognised the right of the Christians to possess the persons and
labours of the heathen natives. Las Casas, who was living in Espanola as a young priest at
this time, and was destined by long residence there and in the West Indies to qualify himself
as their first historian, saw what Columbus saw, and saw also the even worse things that happened
in after years in Cuba and Jamaica; and it is to him that we owe our knowledge of the condition
of island affairs at this time.  The colonists whom Ovando had brought out had come very much
in the spirit that in our own day characterised the rush to the north-western goldfields of
America.  They brought only the slightest equipment, and were no sooner landed at San Domingo
than they set out into the island like so many picnic parties, being more careful to carry
vessels in which to bring back the gold they were to find than proper provisions and equipment
to support them in the labour of finding it. The roads, says Las Casas, swarmed like ant-hills
with these adventurers rushing forth to the mines, which were about twenty-five miles distant
from San Domingo; they were in the highest spirits, and they made it a kind of race as to who
should get there first.  They thought they had nothing to do but to pick up shining lumps of
gold; and when they found that they had to dig and delve in the hard earth, and to dig systematically
and continuously, with a great deal of digging for very little gold, their spirits fell.  They
were not used to dig; and it happened that most of them began in an unprofitable spot, where
they digged for eight days without finding any gold.  Their provisions were soon exhausted;
and in a week they were back again in San Domingo, tired, famished, and bitterly disappointed.
They had no genius for steady labour; most of them were virtually without means; and although
they lived in San Domingo, on what they had as long as possible, they were soon starving there,
and selling the clothes off their backs to procure food.  Some of them took situations with
the other settlers, more fell victims to the climate of the island and their own imprudences
and distresses; and a thousand of them had died within two years.

Ovando had revived the enthusiasm for mining by two enactments.  He reduced the share of discovered
gold payable to the Crown, and he developed Columbus's system of forced labour to such an extent
that the mines were entirely worked by it.  To each Spaniard, whether mining or farming, so
many natives were allotted.  It was not called slavery; the natives were supposed to be paid
a minute sum, and their employers were also expected to teach them the Christian religion.
That was the plan. The way in which it worked was that, a body of native men being allotted
to a Spanish settler for a period, say, of six or eight months--for the enactment was precise
in putting a period to the term of slavery--the natives would be marched off, probably many
days' journey from their homes and families, and set to work under a Spanish foreman.  The
work, as we have already seen, was infinitely harder than that to which they were accustomed;
and most serious of all, it was done under conditions that took all the heart out of the labour.
A man will toil in his own garden or in tilling his own land with interest and happiness, not
counting the hours which he spends there; knowing in fact that his work is worth doing, because
he is doing it for a good reason.  But put the same man to work in a gang merely for the aggrandisement
of some other over-man; and the heart and cheerfulness will soon die out of him.

It was so with these children of the sun.  They were put to work ten times harder than any
they had ever done before, and they were put to it under the lash.  The light diet of their
habit had been sufficient to support them in their former existence of happy idleness and dalliance,
and they had not wanted anything more than their cassava bread and a little fish and fruit;
now, however, they were put to work at a pressure which made a very different kind of feeding
necessary to them, and this they did not get.  Now and then a handful of pork would be divided
among a dozen of them, but they were literally starved, and were accustomed to scramble like
dogs for the bones that were thrown from the tables of the Spaniards, which bones they ground
up and mixed with their, bread so that no portion of them might be lost.  They died in numbers
under these hard conditions, and, compared with their lives, their deaths must often have been
happy.  When the time came for them to go home they were generally utterly worn out and crippled,
and had to face a long journey of many days with no food to support them but what they could
get on the journey; and the roads were strewn with the dead bodies of those who fell by the way.

And far worse things happened to them than labour and exhaustion.  It became the custom among
the Spaniards to regard the lives of the natives as of far less value than those of the dogs
that were sometimes set upon them in sport.  A Spaniard riding along would make a wager with
his fellow that he would cut the head off a native with one stroke of his sword; and many attempts
would be laughingly made, and many living bodies hideously mutilated and destroyed, before
the feat would be accomplished. Another sport was one similar to pigsticking as it is practised
in India, except that instead of pigs native women and children were stuck with the lances.
There was no kind of mutilation and monstrous cruelty that was not practised.  If there be
any powers of hell, they stalked at large through the forests and valleys of Espanola.  Lust
and bloody cruelty, of a kind not merely indescribable but unrealisable by sane men and women,
drenched the once happy island with anguish and terror.  And in payment for it the Spaniards
undertook to teach the heathen the Christian religion.

