Miss Dangerlie's Roses
     How the Captain made Christmas
     Little Darby

MY COUSIN FANNY

We do not keep Christmas now as we used to do in old Hanover. We have not time for it, and
it does not seem like the same thing. Christmas, however, always brings up to me my cousin
Fanny; I suppose because she always was so foolish about Christmas. Devoid
of olive groves and vineyards, but had made some nest egg, which, as the public voice, spent twelve
thousand pieces, and they grew like wildfire, because the revenue was given to very reliable people,
and ten percent a year, because as a woman was afraid God consciousness very close and very
charitable, I did not go through usurious.

In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and according to calculations wise,
about eight reales per day, or tell yourself about three thousand each year. And this without
counting the adehalas, tips, gifts and receiving gifts often.

It is true that each and she deserved more.

No one was more calculated to lead a pigs. Singular salted hams skill. Marinating with that prepared
the loins before frying in butter was tasty and delicate, and dyed red butter golden bewitching
sight, was delicate perfume and aroused the appetite of the person coming through half-hearted
when their noses and their eyes. Their sausage, black pudding, sausage morcones and left far
behind the best in this genus is seasoned in Extremadura. And he was so skilled hand for all
that even when melt the butter drew the most crunchy snacks that are eaten pork rinds ever. So the
rich peasants and other people comfortably and tastefully vied Juana
la Larga to go to their house to do the killing.

Regarding baking was nothing less, and most of the year, particularly in three solemn times,
she knew not how to go to a thousand places where they called it: Before Easter Christmas, to make
the sweets and delicacies and wealthy people often sybaritic then send your gift to make, for example,
pastries and the famous picadillo empanadas with anchovies and tomato and onion that are taken
there with the chocolate.

It was also, as anyone polvorones tortillas and sugar that were left far behind commended as Moron,
donuts egg and wine, and many variety of cakes and syrups.

If Jane did not know much about other things, had failed to ensure that was a specialty wonderful
for fritters, so that in the days leading up to Easter no peace was at hand or the mind, going
to the homes of older brothers of the fraternities to make the fluffy flakes, the gajorros and delicious
fritters, which fell apart in the mouth and with which the apostles
were given away, the Nazarenes, the holy King David and all other
prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament contained
delicious processions in which there is style.

Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the station vintage. Their syrup had
no rival in the whole region, and the same can be said its excellent porridge must. In the fall,
because when given the best fruits, are castrated hives and honey is cool, Juana was used to make
quince jelly and apple variety of legitimate and fluffy nougat piñonates,
which were thick and gold beads linked with the fragrant honey well
beaten.

Beyond this, Jane was painted alone to provide any or banquet that
was Pipiripao or wanted to give a ruler of the people, and on the
occasion of wedding or baptism, and to give away the deputy governor,
Mr Bishop himself if he came to visit the villa.

And do not think that Joan knew just making the local dishes but also imported and added a few
non-indigenous cuisine dishes strangers more or less distant countries, dishes or delicacies which
stood out the yolk very famous cakes, which were only Ecija nuns, whose traditional secrecy is
not clear why prodigious art or skill she had learned to seize. Made Finally, several dishes
of French origin, whose convoluted names had been agreeing to modify the pronunciation Spanish.
For example, the balsamela chops, fried flounder and elvers inglatines
with salmorejo tartar.

This was not the most admirable. The most remarkable was that Jane, about being the wiser cook
and pastry chef of the place, was also his first dressmaker.

Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut dresses with both art and
elegance as Worth or Doucet in the French capital.

The women and girls more affluent and fond of luxury came then to Joan for their Costumes effort,
when he had to wear them as a wedding, and at a fair or already in
the dance it used to be in the Hall buildings on the patron saint.

Juana, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure, but also exercised, although
it was not discussed or had a title, a necessary or profession of the highest importance social.

Peritísima
and agilísima was to help any woman in the harshest of Lucina trances,
and many trusted and were delivered to her, because she never had
any unfortunate creature, and because the mother was not very puny,
six or seven days after leaving care was already in place, and often
went to Mass, and if the opportunity arose danced bolero.

With all these skills and qualities, Juana's Long could not but be
dear and in Villalegre, getting your severe and high society or high-life
you have forgiven a slip or trip that took in his youth.

IV

At the time that it will begin the action of this true story, Jane was about quite forty years of
age, although still retained traces of its former beauty, who had
been noticeable when she was twenty, but as time was very poor and
had not discovered and showed their great skills, he found, despite
their merit, boyfriend of his choice, and had to remain unmarried.

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and
it was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that
the good of the officer had to go to civil war, which burned in the
Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet that pierced
her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at
the baptismal font the same name as his mother.

The mob then added to the name the same epithet, where this girl, who will be the main heroine
of our story, became Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without
pretense that she was his daughter which would have been in that play,
where everything was known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ​​and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves albercón spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the albercón, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it albercón going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks,
and in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet
in matters of love.

Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he knew lay s, command
respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy,
but this inclination, at least for his part, rather than affection
had traces of brotherly love affection. Who inspired, no doubt sharing
less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and nephew
of the chief, who had in place very humble parentage.
When she sat down at the piano and played, her fussiness was all forgotten; her first notes
used to be recognized through the house, and people used to stop what they were doing, and
come in. Even the children would leave off playing, and come straggling in, tiptoeing as they
crossed the floor. Some of the other performers used to play a great deal louder, but we never
tiptoed when they played. Cousin Fanny would sit at the piano looking either up or right straight
ahead of her, or often with her eyes closed (she never looked at the keys), and the sound used
to rise from under her long, thin fingers, sometimes rushing and pouring forth like a deep
roar, sometimes ringing out clear like a band of bugles, making the hair move on the head and
giving strange tinglings down the back. Then we boys wanted to go forth in the world on fiery,
black chargers, like the olden knights, and fight giants and rescue beautiful ladies and poor
women. Then again, with her eyes shut, the sound would almost die away, and her fingers would
move softly and lingeringly as if they loved the touch of the keys, and hated to leave them;
and the sound would come from away far off, and everything would grow quiet and subdued, and
the perfume of the roses out of doors would steal in on the air, and the soft breezes would
stir the trees, and we were all in love, and wanted to see somebody that we didn't see. And
Cousin Fanny was not herself any longer, but we imagined some one else was there. Sometimes
she suddenly began to sing (she sang old songs, English or French); her voice might be weak
(it all depended on her whims; SHE said, on her health), in that case she always stopped and
left the piano; or it might be "in condition". When it was, it was as velvety and mellow as
a bell far off, and the old ballads and chansons used to fill the twilight. We used even to
forget then that she was an old maid. Now and then she sang songs that no one else had ever
heard. They were her own; she had composed both the words and the air. At other times she sang
the songs of others to her own airs. I remember the first time I ever heard of Tennyson was
when, one evening in the twilight, she sang his echo song from "The Princess". The air was
her own, and in the refrain you heard perfectly the notes of the bugle, and the echoes answering,
"Dying, dying, dying." Boy as I was, I was entranced, and she answered my enthusiasm by turning
and repeating the poem. I have often thought since how musical her voice was as she repeated

    Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
     And grow forever and forever.

She had a peculiarly sentimental temperament. As I look back at it all now, she was much given
to dwelling upon old-time poems and romances, which we thought very ridiculous in any one,
especially in a spinster of forty odd. She would stop and talk about the branch of a tree with
the leaves all turning red or yellow or purple in the common way in which, as everyone knows,
leaves always turn in the fall; or even about a tangle of briers, scarlet with frost, in a
corner of an old worm-fence, keeping us waiting while she fooled around a brier patch with
old Blinky, who would just as lief have been in one place as another, so it was out of doors;
and even when she reached the house she would still carry on about it, worrying us by telling
over again just how the boughs and leaves looked massed against the old gray fence, which she
could do till you could see them precisely as they were. She was very aggravating in this way.
Sometimes she would even take a pencil or pen and a sheet of paper for old Blinky, and reproduce
it. She could not draw, of course, for she was not a painter; all she could do was to make
anything look almost just like it was.

There was one thing about her which excited much talk; I suppose it was only a piece of old-maidism.
Of course she was religious. She was really very good. She was considered very high church.
I do not think, from my recollection of her, that she really was, or, indeed, that she could
have been; but she used to talk that way, and it was said that she was. In fact, it used to
be whispered that she was in danger of becoming a Catholic. I believe she had an aunt that
was one, and she had visited several times in Norfolk and Baltimore, where it was said there
were a good many. I remember she used to defend them, and say she knew a great many very devout
ones. And she admitted that she sometimes went to the Catholic church, and found it devotional;
the choral service, she said, satisfied something in her soul. It happened to be in the evening
that she was talking about this. She sat down at the piano, and played some of the Gregorian
chants she had heard, and it had a soothing influence on everyone. Even Joe, the fidgetiest
of all, sat quite still through it. She said that some one had said it was the music that the
angels sing in heaven around the great white throne, and there was no other sacred music like
it. But she played another thing that evening which she said was worthy to be played with it.
It had some chords in it that I remembered long afterward. Years afterward I heard it played
the same way in the twilight by one who is a blessed saint in heaven, and may be playing it
there now. It was from Chopin. She even said that evening, under the impulse of her enthusiasm,
that she did not see, except that it might be abused, why the crucifix should not be retained
by all Christian churches, as it enabled some persons not gifted with strong imaginations to
have a more vivid realization of the crucified Saviour. This, of course, was going too far,
and it created considerable excitement in the family, and led to some very serious talk being
given her, in which the second commandment figured largely. It was considered as carrying old-maidism
to an extreme length. For some time afterward she was rather discountenanced. In reality, I
think what some said was true: it was simply that she was emotional, as old maids are apt to
be. She once said that many women have the nun's instinct largely developed, and sigh for the
peace of the cloister.

She seemed to be very fond of artists. She had the queerest tastes, and had, or had had when
she was young, one or two friends who, I believe, claimed to be something of that kind; she
used to talk about them to old Blinky. But it seemed to us from what she said that artists
never did any work; just spent their time lounging around, doing nothing, and daubing paint
on their canvas with brushes like a painter, or chiselling and chopping rocks like a mason.
One of these friends of hers was a young man from Norfolk who had made a good many things.
He was killed or died in the war; so he had not been quite ruined; was worth something anyhow
as a soldier. One of his things was a Psyche, and Cousin Fanny used to talk a good deal about
it; she said it was fine, was a work of genius. She had even written some verses about it.
She repeated them to me once, and I wrote them down. Here they are:

      To Galt's Psyche.

    Well art thou called the soul;
     For as I gaze on thee,
    My spirit, past control,
     Springs up in ecstasy.

    Thou canst not be dead stone;
     For o'er thy lovely face,
    Softer than music's tone,
     I see the spirit's grace.

    The wild aeolian lyre
     Is but a silken string,
    Till summer winds inspire,
     And softest music bring.

    Psyche, thou wast but stone
     Till his inspiring came:
    The sculptor's hand alone
     Made not that soul-touched frame.

They have lain by me for years, and are pretty good for one who didn't write. I think, however,
she was young when she addressed them to the "soul-touched" work of the young sculptor, who
laid his genius and everything at Virginia's feet. They were friends, I believe, when she was
a girl, before she caught that cold, and her eyes got bad.

Among her eccentricities was her absurd cowardice. She was afraid of cows, afraid of horses,
afraid even of sheep. And bugs, and anything that crawled, used to give her a fit. If we drove
her anywhere, and the horses cut up the least bit, she would jump out and walk, even in the
mud; and I remember once seeing her cross the yard, where a young cow that had a calf asleep
in the weeds, over in a corner beyond her, started toward it at a little trot with a whimper
of motherly solicitude. Cousin Fanny took it into her head that the cow was coming at her,
and just screamed, and sat down flat on the ground, carrying on as if she were a baby. Of course,
we boys used to tease her, and tell her the cows were coming after her. You could not help
teasing anybody like that.

I do not see how she managed to do what she did when the enemy got to Woodside in the war.
That was quite remarkable, considering what a coward she was. During 1864 the Yankees on a
raid got to her house one evening in the summer. As it happened, a young soldier, one of her
cousins (she had no end of cousins), had got a leave of absence, and had come there sick with
fever just the day before (the house was always a sort of hospital). He was in the boys' room
in bed when the Yankees arrived, and they were all around the house before she knew it. She
went downstairs to meet them. They had been informed by one of the negroes that Cousin Charlie
was there, and they told her that they wanted him. She told them they could not get him. They
asked her, "Why? Is he not there?" (I heard her tell of it once.) She said:

"You know, I thought when I told them they could not get him that they would go away, but when
they asked me if he was not there, of course I could not tell them a story; so I said I declined
to answer impertinent questions. You know poor Charlie was at that moment lying curled up under
the bed in the boys' room with a roll of carpet a foot thick around him, and it was as hot
as an oven. Well, they insisted on going through the house, and I let them go all through the
lower stories; but when they started up the staircase I was ready for them. I had always kept,
you know, one of papa's old horse-pistols as a protection. Of course, it was not loaded. I
would not have had it loaded for anything in the world. I always kept it safely locked up,
and I was dreadfully afraid of it even then. But you have no idea what a moral support it gave
me, and I used to unlock the drawer every afternoon to see if it was still there all right,
and then lock it again, and put the key away carefully. Well, as it happened, I had just been
looking at it--which I called 'inspecting my garrison'. I used to feel just like Lady Margaret
in Tillietudlam Castle. Well, I had just been looking at it that afternoon when I heard the
Yankees were coming, and by a sudden inspiration--I cannot tell for my life how I did it--I
seized the pistol, and hid it under my apron. I held on to it with both hands, I was so afraid
of it, and all the time those wretches were going through the rooms down-stairs I was quaking
with terror. 

Not understand why we love to talk to Dona Ines free and rugged. The it was not lawful and pure
in thought and word offended their ears austere matron but in a place you have to suffer such
freedoms or have to pretend not to hear. Himself Don Alvaro was nothing looked in the talk, still
less so were the people around him. Worth for such a boy, about fifteen years old, son of the
overseer and favorite Don Alvaro, this was always at home to entertain children.
 I could not say I would shoot, for it was not loaded. Well, do
you know, they stopped! They stopped dead still. I declare I was so afraid the old pistol would
go off, though, of course, I knew it was not loaded, that I was just quaking. But as soon as
they stopped, I began to attack. I remembered my old grandmother and her scissors, and, like
General Jackson, I followed up my advantage. I descended the steps, brandishing my pistol with
both hands, and abusing them with all my might. I was so afraid they might ask if it was loaded.
But they really thought I would shoot them (you know men have not liked to be slain by a woman
since the time of Abimelech), and they actually ran down the steps, with me after them, and
I got them all out of the house. Then I locked the door and barred it, and ran up-stairs and
had such a cry over Charlie. 

More cautious were the princes of his family who remained in their homeland, and by consent disposed of
the nation that never leave any inhabitant of our little kingdom: the qual has kept intact
our innocence and happiness. The Spaniards have had a confusing idea of ​​this country, who have
called El Dorado, and English, the knight named Raleigh, came here about a hundred years ago, but
since we are surrounded by impassable chasms Brenes and dreadful, we have always lived free
of European rapacity, with the unquenchable thirst The torments of the stones and mud of our
land, they would finish with us without ceasing to live one.

It was a long conversation, and her treatment in the form of government, customs, the women,
theaters and arts, and finally Candido, who was very addicted to the metaphysical, wonder, through
Cacambo, if the inhabitants had religion. Blushed a little old man and answered:? Well, as you
doubt? ? You think that we are so ungrateful? Cacambo ask very humility that religion was the
El Dorado. Again the old man was embarrassed, and he replied: Is he there may be two religions?
Our religion is all over the world: we worship God night and day. ? And do not worship more
than one God? Cacambo said, serving as an interpreter to doubts Candide. As if two or three, or
four, 'said the old man go, people make your world ask very rare. Candide is not satisfied
ask the good old and wanted to know was what they asked for God in El Dorado. We do not ask anything,
'said the respectable good and wise, and all we have to ask, because quanto has given us everything
we need, but you continually pay taxes thanksgiving. Candide came the curiosity to see the
priests, and asked where they were, and the venerable old man, he said, smiling: "My friend, here
all we are priests, the king and all heads of families sing solemn chants every morning of
thanksgiving, that accompany five or six thousand musicians .--? With that you have no friars they
teach, they argue, ruling that tangle, and burn those who are not your mind? - must would that
we were crazy, "replied the old man, here we all are of one mind, and do not understand your meaning those friars.
Candido was as ecstatic when they heard this reasons, and said to himself, very different country
is east of Westphalia, and the fifth of Mr. baron, if our friend Pangloss had seen El Dorado,
would not say that the fifth of Thunder-ten-Tronckh was the best we had on earth. Certainly
it is good to go.

Finished this long conversation, did the old man put a carriage of six sheep, and gave the two
walkers twelve of his servants to take them to court. Sorry, said to them, if my age deprives
me of the honor of accompanying, but the King will entertain so that you will be happy, and
certainly disculpareis country styles, if you dislike any of them.

Candido drive mounted and Cacambo six rams were flying, and in less than four hours came to
the palace, located at one end of the capital. The front door had Two hundred and twenty feet
high, and one hundred wide, and it is not possible to say that matter was; rather they check to see
prodigious quan benefits would lift the stones and sand we call us gold and precious stones.
To get off the car Cacambo Candido and were received by twenty beautiful maidens of the royal
guard, which took them to the bathroom, and dressed plumion a ropage of Colibri, then the
principal officers and palace officials conduxeron to the room of His Majesty, between two rows
of a thousand musicians each, as was style. Quando were near the throne room, Cacambo ask one
of the officers main as they were to greet Your Majesty, if kneeling or prostration to the ground;
if you were to lay hands on the head or back, if they were to lick the dust room and finally
were quale ceremonies. The practice, he said the officer, is to give a hug the king and kiss
him on both mexillas. Abalanzaronse Cacambo as Candide and the neck of His Majesty And he corresponded
with the greatest kindness, and politely invited them to dinner. Meanwhile taught the city,
public buildings to climb the clouds, the market places Columns adorned a thousand, the sources
of clear water, the water rose, the cane liquor, that ran nonstop in vast spaces paved with a
kind of precious stones spread a smell like clove and cinnamon. Candido wanted to see the
hall of the crime and the court, and he said that they had not, because none litigating, it
was reported if there was jail and was told no, but what is most strange and caused him most satisfaction
was the palace science, where he saw a gallery of two thousand steps, filling the whole of
physical instruments and mathematics.

Having traveled throughout that afternoon as the thousandth part of the city, they brought
in back to the palace. Candide sat down at the table between His Majesty, his valet Cacambo,
and many ladies, and you can not weigh the sensitivity of the food or the mouth such acute the
monarch could be heard. Candido Cacambo explained to the Donayre the king, and even translated
Donayre were still, and all quanto astonishment to Candide, this
was not what I leave him less stunned.

A month were in the hospice. Candido was saying continuously Cacambo: This is true, my friend,
that the fifth where I was born can not be compared with the country where we are, but After
my Cunegonde not dwell on it, and no doubt you will not lack in Europe a that either want. If
we stay here, we are one of many, and if we turn our world no more than a dozen sheep laden
with stones Dorado, will be richer monarchs all together, we will not be afraid of inquisitors,
and easily may charge to Cunegonde. This reasoning spect Cacambo: such is the mania of running
world, to be had among his own people to flaunt what you've seen
one in his travels, The two lucky dexarlo were determined to be, and
bid farewell to His Majesty.

Nonsense are you doing, I said to the king, my country is well worth little, but is a Quando
fairly well on a site, should be at. Indeed I have no right to stop to foreigners, as opposed
tyranny to our practice and our laws. Every man is free, and you can go Quando quisiereis, but it
is very difficult company to get out of this country: not possible to upload the swift river
by the qual you came by a miracle, and it runs Baxo vaults of cliffs, the mountains that surround
my domains have four thousand yards of elevation, and are right and towers, its width takes
an area of ​​ten leagues, and you can not baxarlas as not falling down. But since you are determined
to go away, I will give instructions to the mayors machines to make one that you can carry comfortably,
and when you have driven the other side of the mountains, no one may accompany you, because
they have vowed my subjects Never go to your enclosure, and are not as reckless as you have
to break: in quanto to others, but you ask me what fits. Your Majesty, do not ask us something
else, Cacambo he said, that some sheep laden with groceries, stones and mud of the country. Riose
the king, and said: I do not know, passion is what Europeans have
your our yellow clay; Take away all that want, and make you much good.

Immediately he ordered his engineers to make a machine to lift out of the kingdom these two extraordinary
men: three thousand good physicists working on it, and I conclude after fifteen days, without
costing over one hundred millions of dollars, foreign currency. Put Candide in the machine and
Cacambo: two large rams had put the chair embodied and the brake to be mounted on them so they
had passed the mountains, and others following twenty loads of provisions, thirty with medals
of the most curious things in the country had, and fifty with gold, diamonds and other gemstones.
The king gave a loving embrace the two vagabonds. It was something to see his departure, and the
ingenious way in which hoisted them and their sheep to the mountain summit. Habiendolos forsaken
in secure camp site, they parted of them physical, and Candide had no other hiccups or other
idea to go to present their sheep to Cunegonde. A well that we have, he said, to pay the governor
of Buenos Ayres, if is possible to put a price on my Cuncgunda: go
to the island of Cayenne, Embark, and then see that kingdom to put
us in setting.

CHAPTER XIX.

The events of Surinam, and knowledge that made Martin Candide.

The first day of our two travelers were quite nice, carried on the wings of idea of ​​being possessors
of quanta greatest treasures in Asia, Europe and Africa could muster. The lover Candido recorded
the name of Cunegonde in the bark of trees. A The second day was mired in swamps two rams, and
were carrying the load; two others died of exhaustion after several days, then starved to death
seven eight in a desert of some days there fell some potholes others: at last the hundred days of
voyage are no more than two rams. He said to Cacambo Candido You see, friend, that despicable
are the riches of this world, nothing is solid, and not virtue, and said Cunegonde see again.
Confess it so, 'said Cacambo, but we still have two rams quanta with
more treasures may have the king of Spain, and from here Columbro
a city I presume to be Surinam, Dutch colony.

At the end of our miseries touch, and the beginning of our venture.

In the vicinity of the town found a black lying on the ground that he had only that half of
her dress, this is about oil blue canvas breeches, and the poor will missing left leg and right hand.
My God! Candido said to him, What are you doing there, friend, in the terrible situation in
which I see you? I'm waiting for my master, the lord of Vanderdendur, famous businessman,
"replied the black. Have you been by chance that the gentleman who Vanderdendur you stopped?
said Candide. Yes, Sir, "replied the black, so is practical: give us a couple linen underwear
twice a year for us to dress; Quando work in sugar mills, and we take a millstone finger, they
cut off his hand, Quando us want to escape, they cut off a leg: I've seen in both cases, that
price will come sugar in Europe, because that when the coast of Guinea I sold my mother for
two coats Patagonians said to me: Son wanted, thanks to our fetish and worship Him without ceasing,
to to live happy, and achieving them the grace to be a slave to our lords the whites, lucky
and make thy father and thy mother. I do not alas! lucky if I did; I know is that they have made
me very unhappy, and that dogs, monkeys and parrots it is a thousand times less than us. The
Dutch fetishes that I have become, say whites and blacks are all children of Adam. I am not a genealogist,
but if preachers tell the truth, we are all cousins, and some that you can not behave in a way
more hideous with their own relatives.

O Pangloss, Candide exclaimed, this abomination had not you guessed it out, it will force to abjure
your optimism. ? What is optimism?

Cacambo he said. Ha, replied Candide, is the mania to sustain that all is well Quando this
one very badly. Shed tears as she said looking black, and I go crying in Surinam.

The first thing they asked was if there was any ship in port that
could be chartered for Buenos-Ayres.

The man who asked it was just a Spanish patron them offered in good conscience comply with
them, and they gathered at an inn, where Candido and Cacambo you were to wait with his sheep.

Candido
he always wore his heart on his hands to count all of your adventures, Spanish and confessed that
he wanted to rob the Cunegonde Cunegonde. Keep me and I answered him in vms pass them. Buenos-Ayres,
because it would inevitably hanged, and vms. neither more nor less; Kinga is the beautiful lady
in Privanza of His Excellency. This saying was stabbed in the heart of Candide amalgamation
cry and cry after her, calling Cacambo apart, I said: Listen, my dear, you have to do, each of us carries
in pocket one or two million dollars in diamonds, and you're more clever than me: go to Buenos
Ayres, in search of Cunegonde. If the governor makes any difficulty, give hundred thousand dollars,
if not enough, give him two hundred thousand, you have not killed any inquisitor, and no one will
pursue you. I fletare another ship, and I expect I'll go to Venice, which is free country, where there
are no Bulgarians, or Abarán, or Jews, or Inquisitors to fear. Well it seemed so wise Cacambo
determination, because he felt a pair of death have to separate from love so good, but the satisfaction
to serve was stronger with the feeling of dexarle. They closed shedding many tears; Candide
charged him not to forget the good old, and it departed that same
Cacambo day: the Cacambo this was an excellent sugeto.

He paused a while Candide in Surinam, waiting for another patron had to take him Italy with the
two rams that had, been. Volume servants for their service and buy quanto everything needed
for a long voyage, he was finally presented by Mr. Vanderdendur, owner of a heavy boat. ? Quanto
vm calls., I ask you, for taking on straight Venice, with my servants, my baggage, and the two rams
that vm. see? The skipper asked ten thousand piastres, and Candide's offered without rebaxa.
iHola, hello! he said between them the prudent Vanderdendur, ? With this stranger gives ten
thousand dollars without haggling? It must be very rich. Returned from there a while, and
he said that he could not make the journey for less than twenty thousand. Twenty thousand will
I will give a vm., "said Candide. Toma, he said in a voice descends the merchant, "with giving
twenty thousand dollars with the same ease as ten thousand? Again returned, and said that he could
not bear to Venice if not give him thirty thousand dollars. For thirty thousand will, "replied
Candide. Ha, ha, murmur the Dutch, thirty thousand dollars does not cost anything to this man,
no doubt that in both sheep takes immense treasures insist no more, do we pay the thirty thousand
dollars, and then we'll see. Candide sold two diamonds, which the youngest was worth more than
all her money quanto had asked the skipper, and I pay in advance. Were already on board the
two rams, and followed Candide away in a boat to go to the ship that was in the harbor, the pattern
is used of the occasion, set sail, and skews the sea carrying the wind. Shortly we will lose
Candido view confused and inattentive. Alas! exclaimed, this mischief
is worthy of the old hemisphere. Turns itself flooded the beach in
their pain, and having lost that which was enough to get rich twenty
monarchs. Little Kitty
is now a big girl, and is doing finely at school. I have told her she must not be an old maid.
Joe is a preacher with a church in the purlieus of a large city. I was there not long ago.
He had a choral service. The Gregorian music carried me back to old times. He preached on the
text, "I was sick, and ye visited me." It was such a fine sermon, and he had such a large congregation,
that I asked why he did not go to a finer church. He said he was "carrying soup to Mrs. Ronquist."
By the way, his organist was a splendid musician. She introduced herself to me. It was Scroggs's
daughter. She is married, and can walk as well as I can. She had a little girl with her that
I think she called "Fanny". I do not think that was Mrs. Scroggs's name. Frank is now a doctor,
or rather a surgeon, in the same city with Joe, and becoming very distinguished. The other
day he performed a great operation, saving a woman's life, which was in all the papers. He
said to an interviewer that he became a surgeon from dressing a sore on an old mare's back.
I wonder what he was talking about? He is about to start a woman's hospital for poor women.
Cousin Fanny would have been glad of that; she was always proud of Frank. She would as likely
as not have quoted that verse from Tennyson's song about the echoes. She sleeps now under the
myrtle at Scroggs's. I have often thought of what that doctor said about her: that she would
have been a very remarkable woman, if she had not been an old maid--I mean, a spinster.

THE BURIAL OF THE GUNS

Lee surrendered the remnant of his army at Appomattox, April 9, 1865, and yet a couple of days
later the old Colonel's battery lay intrenched right in the mountain-pass where it had halted
three days before. Two weeks previously it had been detailed with a light division sent to
meet and repel a force which it was understood was coming in by way of the southwest valley
to strike Lee in the rear of his long line from Richmond to Petersburg. It had done its work.
The mountain-pass had been seized and held, and the Federal force had not gotten by that road
within the blue rampart which guarded on that side the heart of Virginia. This pass, which
was the key to the main line of passage over the mountains, had been assigned by the commander
of the division to the old Colonel and his old battery, and they had held it. The position
taken by the battery had been chosen with a soldier's eye. A better place could not have been
selected to hold the pass. It was its highest point, just where the road crawled over the shoulder
of the mountain along the limestone cliff, a hundred feet sheer above the deep river, where
its waters had cut their way in ages past, and now lay deep and silent, as if resting after
their arduous toil before they began to boil over the great bowlders which filled the bed a
hundred or more yards below.

The little plateau at the top guarded the descending road on either side for nearly a mile,
and the mountain on the other side of the river was the centre of a clump of rocky, heavily
timbered spurs, so inaccessible that no feet but those of wild animals or of the hardiest hunter
had ever climbed it. On the side of the river on which the road lay, the only path out over
the mountain except the road itself was a charcoal-burner's track, dwindling at times to a
footway known only to the mountain-folk, which a picket at the top could hold against an army.
The position, well defended, was impregnable, and it was well defended. This the general of
the division knew when he detailed the old Colonel and gave him his order to hold the pass
until relieved, and not let his guns fall into the hands of the enemy. He knew both the Colonel
and his battery. The battery was one of the oldest in the army. It had been in the service
since April, 1861, and its commander had come to be known as "The Wheel Horse of his division".
He was, perhaps, the oldest officer of his rank in his branch of the service. Although he had
bitterly opposed secession, and was many years past the age of service when the war came on,
yet as soon as the President called on the State for her quota of troops to coerce South Carolina,
he had raised and uniformed an artillery company, and offered it, not to the President of the
United States, but to the Governor of Virginia.

It is just at this point that he suddenly looms up to me as a soldier; the relation he never
wholly lost to me afterward, though I knew him for many, many years of peace. His gray coat
with the red facing and the bars on the collar; his military cap; his gray flannel shirt--it
was the first time I ever saw him wear anything but immaculate linen--his high boots; his horse
caparisoned with a black, high-peaked saddle, with crupper and breast-girth, instead of the
light English hunting-saddle to which I had been accustomed, all come before me now as if it
were but the other day. I remember but little beyond it, yet I remember, as if it were yesterday,
his leaving home, and the scenes which immediately preceded it; the excitement created by the
news of the President's call for troops; the unanimous judgment that it meant war; the immediate
determination of the old Colonel, who had hitherto opposed secession, that it must be met;
the suppressed agitation on the plantation, attendant upon the tender of his services and the
Governor's acceptance of them. The prompt and continuous work incident to the enlistment of
the men, the bustle of preparation, and all the scenes of that time, come before me now. It
turned the calm current of the life of an old and placid country neighborhood, far from any
city or centre, and stirred it into a boiling torrent, strong enough, or fierce enough to cut
its way and join the general torrent which was bearing down and sweeping everything before
it. It seemed but a minute before the quiet old plantation, in which the harvest, the corn-shucking,
and the Christmas holidays alone marked the passage of the quiet seasons, and where a strange
carriage or a single horseman coming down the big road was an event in life, was turned into
a depot of war-supplies, and the neighborhood became a parade-ground. The old Colonel, not
a colonel yet, nor even a captain, except by brevet, was on his horse by daybreak and off on
his rounds through the plantations and the pines enlisting his company. The office in the yard,
heretofore one in name only, became one now in reality, and a table was set out piled with
papers, pens, ink, books of tactics and regulation, at which men were accepted and enrolled.
Soldiers seemed to spring from the ground, as they did from the sowing of the dragon's teeth
in the days of Cadmus. Men came up the high road or down the paths across the fields, sometimes
singly, but oftener in little parties of two or three, and, asking for the Captain, entered
the office as private citizens and came out soldiers enlisted for the war. There was nothing
heard of on the plantation except fighting; white and black, all were at work, and all were
eager; the servants contended for the honor of going with their master; the women flocked to
the house to assist in the work of preparation, cutting out and making under-clothes, knitting
socks, picking lint, preparing bandages, and sewing on uniforms; for many of the men who had
enlisted were of the poorest class, far too poor to furnish anything themselves, and their
equipment had to be contributed mainly by wealthier neighbors. The work was carried on at night
as well as by day, for the occasion was urgent. Meantime the men were being drilled by the
Captain and his lieutenants, who had been militia officers of old. We were carried to see the
drill at the cross-roads, and a brave sight it seemed to us: the lines marching and countermarching
in the field, with the horses galloping as they wheeled amid clouds of dust, at the hoarse
commands of the excited officers, and the roadside lined with spectators of every age and condition.
I recall the arrival of the messenger one night, with the telegraphic order to the Captain
to report with his company at "Camp Lee" immediately; the hush in the parlor that attended
its reading; then the forced beginning of the conversation afterwards in a somewhat strained
and unnatural key, and the Captain's quick and decisive outlining of his plans.

Within the hour a dozen messengers were on their way in various directions to notify the members
of the command of the summons, and to deliver the order for their attendance at a given point
next day. It seemed that a sudden and great change had come. It was the actual appearance of
what had hitherto only been theoretical--war. The next morning the Captain, in full uniform,
took leave of the assembled plantation, with a few solemn words commending all he left behind
to God, and galloped away up the big road to join and lead his battery to the war, and to be
gone just four years.

Within a month he was on "the Peninsula" with Magruder, guarding Virginia on the east against
the first attack. His camp was first at Yorktown and then on Jamestown Island, the honor having
been assigned his battery of guarding the oldest cradle of the race on this continent. It was
at "Little Bethel" that his guns were first trained on the enemy, and that the battery first
saw what they had to do, and from this time until the middle of April, 1865, they were in service,
and no battery saw more service or suffered more in it. Its story was a part of the story of
the Southern Army in Virginia. The Captain was a rigid disciplinarian, and his company had
more work to do than most new companies. A pious churchman, of the old puritanical type not
uncommon to Virginia, he looked after the spiritual as well as the physical welfare of his
men, and his chaplain or he read prayers at the head of his company every morning during the
war. At first he was not popular with the men, he made the duties of camp life so onerous to
them, it was "nothing but drilling and praying all the time," they said. But he had not commanded
very long before they came to know the stuff that was in him. He had not been in service a
year before he had had four horses shot under him, and when later on he was offered the command
of a battalion, the old company petitioned to be one of his batteries, and still remained under
his command. Before the first year was out the battery had, through its own elements, and the
discipline of the Captain, become a cohesive force, and a distinct integer in the Army of Northern
Virginia. Young farmer recruits knew of its prestige and expressed preference for it of many
batteries of rapidly growing or grown reputation. Owing to its high stand, the old and clumsy
guns with which it had started out were taken from it, and in their place was presented a battery
of four fine, brass, twelve-pound Napoleons of the newest and most approved kind, and two three-inch
Parrotts, all captured. The men were as pleased with them as children with new toys. The care
and attention needed to keep them in prime order broke the monotony of camp life. They soon
had abundant opportunities to test their power. They worked admirably, carried far, and were
extraordinarily accurate in their aim. The men from admiration of their guns grew to have first
a pride in, and then an affection for, them, and gave them nicknames as they did their comrades;
the four Napoleons being dubbed "The Evangelists", and the two rifles being "The Eagle", because
of its scream and force, and "The Cat", because when it became hot from rapid firing "It jumped,"
they said, "like a cat." From many a hill-top in Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania "The
Evangelists" spoke their hoarse message of battle and death, "The Eagle" screamed her terrible
note, and "The Cat" jumped as she spat her deadly shot from her hot throat. Was very
fond of reading aloud, through what medium did. Mariana was pleased hear a lot in reading.
So, on this side, the marriage was fine.

- Read it, man .... I think Pepe and Ramon not mind - it said.

Castro made a slight sign of acquiescence, Ramon was quick to express with gestures extremes
that would be a great pleasure ... he was very fond of beautiful
chapters etc. Few thanks!

Coming from the father of his beloved, would be able to listen carefully reading the table of
logarithms.

D. Julian put on his glasses and began to read, with a white ruff voice that was quiet for these
occasions, a chapter that described the suffering of a lost child on the streets of Paris.
Instantly began to arrasársele alterársele eyes and voice.

He concluded by anudársele in such a way that barely understand him. Ramon found himself needed
to take the file and continue reading to the end. Castro, in the presence of those ridiculous,
man hid his smile behind big top puffs of smoke.

Completed Chapter and discussed in terms most flattering to all present,
Mariana turned his eyes toward his work.

He noted that would be needed a piece of silk backing, as it was nearing completion. Ms Hope,
who reported this thought, was of the same opinion.

- Ramon - said
the first - do me the favor of pressing that button.

The councilman was quick to fulfill the mandate. After a moment the maiden the lady.

- You must go out and buy a yard of silk - it said.

The home, after learning the peculiarities of the commission, prepared
to leave to comply.

D. Julian, who had listened attentively, stopped her with a gesture.

-
Aguárdese a moment .... I'll see if by chance do I have what they
need.

And he went briskly from the room. It did not take three minutes to come back with an old umbrella
hands.

- See if you can serve this silk umbrella - said -.

I think it's the same color ....

Maldonado Castro and exchanged a meaningful glance.

Mariana took him blushing.

- Indeed, it is the same color ... but it is all chopped .... Does not work.

Esperancita pretending to be engrossed in their work, but his face
like a peony.

Only Ms Hope took the matter seriously and discussed it. Was finally discarded with distaste
the banker, who was muttering some unflattering statements about the order and economy women.

Ramon
could not suffer more punishment of Tantalus that make the experience of his friend condemned.
She kept looking toward the place where he chatted and Esperanza. Began to rise from his chair
with a pretext to stretch my legs a bit and gave a few rides. Was slowly coming to them, concluded
a halt in front.

- Hello, Hope .... How long have not seen her friend Pacita?

What excuse to stop so gross! He himself understood this, and blushed
as he said these words.

Castro gave him a withering look, but either did not see, or pretended
not seen.

Esperanza frowned and replied curtly that he did not remember to
accuracy.

This would be enough for anyone to be given by a warning. Ramon was not made. Tried before
extend the conversation with phrases absurd or pointless. Even had attempts at grasping a chair
and sit next to them, but was prevented by giving Castro, neglect,
a fierce and expressive in the calluses stomp him back in their agreement.

He continued, therefore, your ride melancholy and quickly sit down again with his future mother
and grandmother. Soon was engaged in a lively discussion with Calderon on whether the paving
of the streets had to be done by contract or by administration. Would have gladly given. His
interest was to do so, because in the end it was the man whose hand was his happiness or Unfortunately,
but that stubborn and mischievous temperament which nature disputón
endow him, drew him to continue, but he saw his father on and about
to get angry.

Fortunately for him, before he reached this point, appeared in the
room a servant.

- What, Remigio? - Asked the banker.

- Just get
a friend of Brown, the driver of the lords of Mudela, and he said
that Leandro the gentleman was a little sick ....

- Sure!

What had to happen to that boy! ... Not accustomed to such revelry. All life on the college or
attached to the skirts of his mother.

Suddenly you bring to this life busy .... What is it about?

Leandro was a nephew of D. Julian, the son of a sister who lived in
La Mancha.

There come to spend a season in Madrid and spent happily together
with other boys the same age.

For some field trip had asked his uncle's carriage.

This, by not to offend your sister who by reason of interest was bound to observe considerations
he had been granted, albeit with great pain in his heart.

- I think
it has hurt the sun and the food ....

- Well, indigestion .... That
will happen soon.

- I think you should go there, Julian - said Mariana.

-
If it becomes necessary, of course I would.

But now I see .... Say you, Remigio, can not move here? Have you stayed in bed?

- That's the case, sir - said the man twirling the cap and lowering eyes if afraid to give
a very serious news -.

The point is that one of the mares, the Primitive is foundered.

Calderón turned pale.

- But can not come?

- No, sir, is quite Malita, says the driver of
Mudela .... Sure! how those guys do not understand, have had enough
water ....

D. Julian rose prey of violent agitation, and without
a word left the room Remigio followed.

Ramon Castro and changed again a glance and a smile. Esperancita surprised them and blushed.

-
Dad takes to heart what these things!

- I could not take it, girl!
- Said Ms Hope irritated voice -.

A log that has cost fifteen thousand pesetas .... Well I say if it is a grace Leandrito!

And continued good time venting his fury, almost as big as his son.

Ramon Castro rose at last to leave.

Mariana, who had taken very philosophy unfortunately invited them
to eat.

- Stay you .... Gone are the time of ride.

- I can not -
said Castro -.

Today, as in his brother's house.

- Ah! indeed it's Saturday, I do not remember.

We will go (if I'm not worse) at ten when the triplet.

- Do you
eat every Saturday at Aunt Clementina? - He asked in a low Esperancita
inflected strange.

The dandy glanced at it.

- Almost everyone at home of his uncle Thomas.

- Aunt Clementina is very pretty and very friendly.

- This reputation has - said Castro a little uneasy now.

- Has many admirers. Are not you one of the enthusiasts?

- Who has told you?

- No, I suppose.

- Have you guessed well. His aunt is, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful and distinguished
ladies Madrid .... Well, until another time, Esperanza.

And he held out his hand with a dismissive air that struck the girl. The latter was manifested
despite calling Ramon, who was standing a bit away.

- And you, Ramon, why do not you stay?

Do you eat well at Aunt Clementina?

- No: I do not ....

- Well, you stay, man. And trying not to get bored.

- I get bored at your side! - Said the council, almost faint with pleasure.

- Nothing, nothing, it definitely is not it? Pepe him go because he has other commitments.

Ramon would say yes with all the fervor of his soul, but above the head the girl, Castro began to
make negative signs, with such force that the poor said muffled voice

- No ... I can not either ....

- Why, Ramon?

--... Because ... I have to do.

- Well I'm sorry.

The council was so moved that he could barely mutter a few words of thanks. Left of stay almost
dragged.

Once in the street, Pepe congratulated him warmly and told him strongly that this would work.
But he welcomed the congratulations with marked coldness. Persisted in silence to his house where his
friend and teacher left the full order head of grim foreboding and sadder than the night.

VII

# Eating and sitting at home Osorio. #

The day after having gone to the house of Raymond, Clementina was more embarrassed and regretful having
done that at the time downstairs.

Proud beings feel remorse for an action that in his opinion has humiliated them, as the righteous
when they have failed to humility. Inside confessed that he had given a false step. The serenity
and courtesy of the boy, while it rose in his eyes, irritated his pride. What comments would not
have made him and his sister after that ridiculous and untimely guest! When thinking it is
the color rose to her face.

Not to see or be seen from the viewpoint of Alcazar, stopped going
out on foot.

The young man keep his promise: he found no trace of him anywhere.

But without knowing what causes the image of it floated continually before their eyes, often
came to mind. Was it dislikes? Why resentment? Clementina could not in good faith affirming.
His former persecutor had nothing in the figure or in the treatment Doing so abhorrent. Would,
on the contrary, he had too favorably impressed his presence? Neither. I saw many young people
every day in society more perky and pleasant conversation. So, the surprise as much as irritated
found him in mind. It never ceased to protest inwardly against this involuntary inclination, and
angry with herself. After few days after the scene told an afternoon decidióse out on foot.
Failure to do so cowardice seemed to him, give honor to that little boy too. When passed near home
looked up and saw him as always veranda with a book in hand. Underthe instantly and seriously crossed
long and straight. But a few steps felt vague discomfort as if you are not satisfied with herself.
The truth is that not even say hello or have not expected the greeting of the young, had not been
well done after his frank explanations and kindness that she had
used to show the rich collection of butterflies and provide him finely.

Next

day he went by foot and realized the injustice of the previous sticking to peer sight in the
upper lookout. Raymond sent a greeting and a smile as friendly as innocent, the beautiful lady was
flattered. He could not hide the fact that this young man was singular sweetness eyes, which made
him very likeable, and your conversation, if not full of pleasantries, showed understanding
and firmness of spirit worship. These observations should make them in due time, but did not
for reasons that we ignore. From this day started out as before. When crossing in front of the
house Raymond's never failed to send her nap friendly to the lookout, from which he responded
with genuine warmth. And as were passing day, the greeting was becoming more expressive. Without
speaking a word seems to be established trust between them.

Clementina did not try to analyze the feeling he felt for the young Alcázar. Was little fond look inside.
I thought vaguely that was a charity showing courteous to him.

"Poor fellow - you said -. I adored his mother! And how happy she had being a child so good and
loving! "One evening, when you took over a month of these greetings, he asked Pepe Castro

- Hear: has stopped following you and that blond boy of yore?

Clementina felt a strange thrill: got slightly red without knowing herself why.

- Yes ... ago and at least a month since I've seen.

Why lie? Castro was so far from thinking that between that unknown tracker and his beloved mediate
any relationship, did not notice the blush. Then went to something else with indifference. But
for our lady, shaking and that that singular warmth in cheeks was a revelation vague in his
mind what befell. The first specific evidence of this revelation was that he left the house
of her lover, instead of going thought in it, reflected that too faithfully fulfilled Alcázar
not followed his word. The second was that to stop at a jewelry shop window and see a brilliant must-see
figure butterfly, it was said that some of those he had seen at her blonde friend were much more
beautiful and bright. The third was purchased to enter the house of Fe to buy some novels French.
It occurred to see so many books, her lover Pepe Castro had not read any of them, nor read
probably. Before, it was funny this ignorance was now ridiculous.

Days passed.

Mrs. Osorio, weary of the fashionable life, having exhausted all the emotions that features
a lady distinguished for her beauty and wealth, would it please extreme in that innocent greeting
almost every day changed the young man's viewpoint. One evening, having dropped the car in Retirement
walk a few laps, ran with Alcazar and his sister in a street tree. He led a salute very expressive.
Raymond responded with the same affectionate respect as always, but noted that Clementina she did so
with marked coldness. This worried her and put her in a bad mood all day, more than ever wanted
to confess that the cause of your discomfort and it was melancholy. Shortly little, due to
his irritable temperament and capricious, that he had affair died at birth, was occupying
his mind sprouting in him a wish.

The individual is Lady appetites were always violent, especially if were an obstacle, as such,
passengers too.

One morning, after saying goodbye to Raymond's hand closing and opening repeatedly with the grace peculiar
to the Spanish ladies, and after walking a short distance, for a
almost involuntary movement turned his head and raised her eyes again
to the lookout.

Raimundo was watching with some opera glasses. He got heavily red:
his pace overcome with shame.

Why should the fact that nonsense?

What would he think of the young Naturalist? At least, to be embodied in love with him. For
despite these ideas swarmed disturbed in his head as he walked quickly
to turn the corner and concealed from the looks of it, was not so
irritated against herself as usual.

I was ashamed, that's true, but then he could walk slowly invaded
sweet emotion his mind, he felt a pleasant tingling in the heart as
there was already a long time since not feel.

"If you go back to my days fanciulla! he said smiling. And he began to recreate considering
their own emotion happy with that return shocks of the innocent the first age. Going so absorbed
in thought, upon arriving at the Cibeles, instead to take the Calle
de Alcala to go home to Castro who was cited for that hour turned
around as if walking through that site.

When I said hesitantly stopped. At last he confessed that he had no great desire to attend the
event.

"I'm going to see mom - said, --. Poor days ago not spend some time
with me.

"And she set forth toward the ride Luchana. It was an excellent mood. A mechanical piano played by
Lucrecia toast nearby and stopped to listen, she is bored in the
hearing of the Real's most famous altos!

But music is a voice from heaven, and only well understood when the
sky has already penetrated a bit in our hearts.

On the down Recoletos Pinedo, that memorable character who lived with one foot in the aristocratic
world and another in the middle class clerks to actually belonged. He brought his side to a nice young
man who must be his daughter, but Clementina did not.

Pinedo was removed from the society he frequented, the same carefully concealed that Triboulet.
Osorio's wife had always treated this character with a bit of arrogance, which was not unusual
as we know it. But now the pleasant state of mind the expansive became flat for a few moments.
As directing a serious crossed Pinedo sombrerazo ceremoniously as usual, the lady stopped and approached
him with a smile on lips.

- My friend, you are a practical man, also takes this time of morning
breath clean air and take a sun bath.

Contrary to custom and nature, Pinedo was a little confused, perhaps
because he did not present his daughter grace this colorful lady.

Repúsose instantly, however, and responded bowing gallantly:

- And see if God gives me a few unpleasant trips like the one we've
had.

Clementina smiled benevolently.

- You must not take this flower even indirectly bringing his side a young so cute. Is your daughter?

-
Yes, ma'am .... Mrs. Osorio - he added, turning to the girl.

This flushed with pleasure at being called beautiful by that lady
who knew both sight and name.

It was a tall, slender, brown face, with tiny features well drawn
and sweet and happy little eyes.

- Well I had heard that you had
a very pretty girl, but I see that the fame has been short.

The girl blushed even more and could barely mutter thanks.

- Come on, Clementina, do not you think it will .... This lady, Pilar
- he added, turning it - is pleased to tell lies like others to say
nice bitter truths.

- I can see it is very nice - the girl said.

-
Pay no attention.

You're beautiful, is in sight.

- Oh, Lady! ...

- And tell me, father
tyrant, why do not you a little more fun? Is it well done you will
see in any theater, dances and meetings and has locked up this beautiful
girl? Or do you figure that we have more happy to see you that she?

The
poor Pinedo felt a shiver of pain he tried to hide. Clementina had
touched frivolously in the most sensitive part of your heart. His
salary will already know that not consented but to live modestly.
If I entered a society that was just not his to maintain employment,
which was their sole support and your daughter. This he knew nothing
yet life plan. Pinedo expected to marry a humble and hardworking man
and he did not know ever that the world we could not live and that
he despised at the bottom of the soul, although such time, by force
of habit, and could not live comfortably in another.

- It is still
very young .... Have fun time - said with a forced smile.

- Bah,
bah! you say you're a great selfish .... And how long has it been
since have you been in Valpardo house? - said the lady going to another
conversation.

- Well, on Monday. The countess asked me with much
interest you and complains that has abandoned.

- Poor Anita: It's
true!

On the homeowners and their gatherings, Pinedo and Clementina
began a conversation lively and inexhaustible. Pilar listened attentively
at first, but as they knew most from those characters ended by casting
her eye distracted by the surroundings, olds to the few passersby
who happened to pass that hour there.

- Father: - said taking advantage
of a moment's pause -. Here comes this young friend of yours that
keeps his mother and sisters.

Pinedo Clementine and again at the
same time they saw the head and Rafael Alcantara the famous skull
we have met in the Savage Club.

- What has a mother and her sisters!
- The lady exclaimed in amazement.

- Yes, a really good guy, my dad,
called Rafael Alcántara.

Looking back, more and more amazed at Pinedo,
he nodded quite expressive. Not knowing what that meant, but figuring
that his friend was interested in not be characterized as a Alcántara
as he deserved, Clementina was silent. The young savage, crossing
them made a friendly greeting between family.

Pinedo hand instantly
reached out to say goodbye.

- You know that today is Saturday - said
the lady -.
His face was as grave and his manner as quiet as usual, neither more nor less so. The men were
in a state of suppressed excitement. Having put them in charge of the second sergeant the Colonel
returned to the breastwork. The two officers were slowly ascending the hill, side by side,
the bearer of the flag, now easily distinguishable in his jaunty uniform as a captain of cavalry,
talking, and the lieutenant in faded gray, faced with yet more faded red, walking beside him
with a face white even at that distance, and lips shut as though they would never open again.
They halted at the big bowlder which the Colonel had indicated, and the lieutenant, having
saluted ceremoniously, turned to come up to the camp; the Colonel, however, went down to meet
him. The two men met, but there was no spoken question; if the Colonel inquired it was only
with the eyes. The lieutenant spoke, however. "He says," he began and stopped, then began again--"he
says, General Lee--" again he choked, then blurted out, "I believe it is all a lie--a damned lie."

"Not dead? Not killed?" said the Colonel, quickly.

"No, not so bad as that; surrendered: surrendered his entire army at Appomattox day before
yesterday. I believe it is all a damned lie," he broke out again, as if the hot denial relieved
him. The Colonel simply turned away his face and stepped a pace or two off, and the two men
stood motionless back to back for more than a minute. Then the Colonel stirred.

"Shall I go back with you?" the lieutenant asked, huskily.

The Colonel did not answer immediately. Then he said: "No, go back to camp and await my return."
He said nothing about not speaking of the report. He knew it was not needed. Then he went down
the hill slowly alone, while the lieutenant went up to the camp.

The interview between the two officers beside the bowlder was not a long one. It consisted
of a brief statement by the Federal envoy of the fact of Lee's surrender two days before near
Appomattox Court-House, with the sources of his information, coupled with a formal demand on
the Colonel for his surrender. To this the Colonel replied that he had been detached and put
under command of another officer for a specific purpose, and that his orders were to hold that
pass, which he should do until he was instructed otherwise by his superior in command. With
that they parted, ceremoniously, the Federal captain returning to where he had left his horse
in charge of his companions a little below, and the old Colonel coming slowly up the hill to
camp. The men were at once set to work to meet any attack which might be made. They knew that
the message was of grave import, but not of how grave. They thought it meant that another attack
would be made immediately, and they sprang to their work with renewed vigor, and a zeal as
fresh as if it were but the beginning and not the end.

The time wore on, however, and there was no demonstration below, though hour after hour it
was expected and even hoped for. Just as the sun sank into a bed of blue cloud a horseman was
seen coming up the darkened mountain from the eastward side, and in a little while practised
eyes reported him one of their own men--the sergeant who had been sent back the day before
for ammunition. He was alone, and had something white before him on his horse--it could not
be the ammunition; but perhaps that might be coming on behind. Every step of his jaded horse
was anxiously watched. As he drew near, the lieutenant, after a word with the Colonel, walked
down to meet him, and there was a short colloquy in the muddy road; then they came back together
and slowly entered the camp, the sergeant handing down a bag of corn which he had got somewhere
below, with the grim remark to his comrades, "There's your rations," and going at once to the
Colonel's camp-fire, a little to one side among the trees, where the Colonel awaited him. A
long conference was held, and then the sergeant left to take his luck with his mess, who were
already parching the corn he had brought for their supper, while the lieutenant made the round
of the camp; leaving the Colonel seated alone on a log by his camp-fire. He sat without moving,
hardly stirring until the lieutenant returned from his round. A minute later the men were called
from the guns and made to fall into line. They were silent, tremulous with suppressed excitement;
the most sun-burned and weather-stained of them a little pale; the meanest, raggedest, and
most insignificant not unimpressive in the deep and solemn silence with which they stood, their
eyes fastened on the Colonel, waiting for him to speak. He stepped out in front of them, slowly
ran his eye along the irregular line, up and down, taking in every man in his glance, resting
on some longer than on others, the older men, then dropped them to the ground, and then suddenly,
as if with an effort, began to speak. His voice had a somewhat metallic sound, as if it were
restrained; but it was otherwise the ordinary tone of command. It was not much that he said:
simply that it had become his duty to acquaint them with the information which he had received:
that General Lee had surrendered two days before at Appomattox Court-House, yielding to overwhelming
numbers; that this afternoon when he had first heard the report he had questioned its truth,
but that it had been confirmed by one of their own men, and no longer admitted of doubt; that
the rest of their own force, it was learned, had been captured, or had disbanded, and the enemy
was now on both sides of the mountain; that a demand had been made on him that morning to surrender
too; but that he had orders which he felt held good until they were countermanded, and he had
declined. Later intelligence satisfied him that to attempt to hold out further would be useless,
and would involve needless waste of life; he had determined, therefore, not to attempt to hold
their position longer; but to lead them out, if possible, so as to avoid being made prisoners
and enable them to reach home sooner and aid their families. His orders were not to let his
guns fall into the enemy's hands, and he should take the only step possible to prevent it.
In fifty minutes he should call the battery into line once more, and roll the guns over the
cliff into the river, and immediately afterwards, leaving the wagons there, he would try to
lead them across the mountain, and as far as they could go in a body without being liable to
capture, and then he should disband them, and his responsibility for them would end. As it
was necessary to make some preparations he would now dismiss them to prepare any rations they
might have and get ready to march.

All this was in the formal manner of a common order of the day; and the old Colonel had spoken
in measured sentences, with little feeling in his voice. Not a man in the line had uttered
a word after the first sound, half exclamation, half groan, which had burst from them at the
announcement of Lee's surrender. After that they had stood in their tracks like rooted trees,
as motionless as those on the mountain behind them, their eyes fixed on their commander, and
only the quick heaving up and down the dark line, as of horses over-laboring, told of the emotion
which was shaking them. The Colonel, as he ended, half-turned to his subordinate officer at
the end of the dim line, as though he were about to turn the company over to him to be dismissed;
then faced the line again, and taking a step nearer, with a sudden movement of his hands towards
the men as though he would have stretched them out to them, began again:

"Men," he said, and his voice changed at the word, and sounded like a father's or a brother's,
"My men, I cannot let you go so. We were neighbors when the war began--many of us, and some
not here to-night; we have been more since then--comrades, brothers in arms; we have all stood
for one thing--for Virginia and the South; we have all done our duty--tried to do our duty;
we have fought a good fight, and now it seems to be over, and we have been overwhelmed by numbers,
not whipped--and we are going home. We have the future before us--we don't know just what it
will bring, but we can stand a good deal. We have proved it. Upon us depends the South in the
future as in the past. You have done your duty in the past, you will not fail in the future.
Go home and be honest, brave, self-sacrificing, God-fearing citizens, as you have been soldiers,
and you need not fear for Virginia and the South. The war may be over; but you will ever be
ready to serve your country. The end may not be as we wanted it, prayed for it, fought for
it; but we can trust God; the end in the end will be the best that could be; even if the South
is not free she will be better and stronger that she fought as she did. Go home and bring up
your children to love her, and though you may have nothing else to leave them, you can leave
them the heritage that they are sons of men who were in Lee's army."

He stopped, looked up and down the ranks again, which had instinctively crowded together and
drawn around him in a half-circle; made a sign to the lieutenant to take charge, and turned
abruptly on his heel to walk away. But as he did so, the long pent-up emotion burst forth.
With a wild cheer the men seized him, crowding around and hugging him, as with protestations,
prayers, sobs, oaths--broken, incoherent, inarticulate--they swore to be faithful, to live
loyal forever to the South, to him, to Lee. Many of them cried like children; others offered
to go down and have one more battle on the plain. The old Colonel soothed them, and quieted
their excitement, and then gave a command about the preparations to be made. This called them
to order at once; and in a few minutes the camp was as orderly and quiet as usual: the fires
were replenished; the scanty stores were being overhauled; the place was selected, and being
got ready to roll the guns over the cliff; the camp was being ransacked for such articles as
could be carried, and all preparations were being hastily made for their march.

The old Colonel having completed his arrangements sat down by his camp-fire with paper and
pencil, and began to write; and as the men finished their work they gathered about in groups,
at first around their camp-fires, but shortly strolled over to where the guns still stood at
the breastwork, black and vague in the darkness. Soon they were all assembled about the guns.
One after another they visited, closing around it and handling it from muzzle to trail as a
man might a horse to try its sinew and bone, or a child to feel its fineness and warmth. They
were for the most part silent, and when any sound came through the dusk from them to the officers
at their fire, it was murmurous and fitful as of men speaking low and brokenly. There was no
sound of the noisy controversy which was generally heard, the give-and-take of the camp-fire,
the firing backwards and forwards that went on on the march; if a compliment was paid a gun
by one of its special detachment, it was accepted by the others; in fact, those who had generally
run it down now seemed most anxious to accord the piece praise. Presently a small number of
the men returned to a camp-fire, and, building it up, seated themselves about it, gathering
closer and closer together until they were in a little knot. One of them appeared to be writing,
while two or three took up flaming chunks from the fire and held them as torches for him to
see by. In time the entire company assembled about them, standing in respectful silence, broken
only occasionally by a reply from one or another to some question from the scribe. After a
little there was a sound of a roll-call, and reading and a short colloquy followed, and then
two men, one with a paper in his hand, approached the fire beside which the officers sat still
engaged.

"What is it, Harris?" said the Colonel to the man with the paper, who bore remnants of the
chevrons of a sergeant on his stained and faded jacket.

"If you please, sir," he said, with a salute, "we have been talking it over, and we'd like
this paper to go in along with that you're writing." He held it out to the lieutenant, who
was the nearer and had reached forward to take it. "We s'pose you're agoin' to bury it with
the guns," he said, hesitatingly, as he handed it over.

"What is it?" asked the Colonel, shading his eyes with his hands.

"It's just a little list we made out in and among us," he said, "with a few things we'd like
to put in, so's if anyone ever hauls 'em out they'll find it there to tell what the old battery
was, and if they don't, it'll be in one of 'em down thar 'til judgment, an' it'll sort of ease
our minds a bit." He stopped and waited as a man who had delivered his message. The old Colonel
had risen and taken the paper, and now held it with a firm grasp, as if it might blow away
with the rising wind. He did not say a word, but his hand shook a little as he proceeded to
fold it carefully, and there was a burning gleam in his deep-set eyes, back under his bushy,
gray brows.

"Will you sort of look over it, sir, if you think it's worth while? We was in a sort of hurry
and we had to put it down just as we come to it; we didn't have time to pick our ammunition;
and it ain't written the best in the world, nohow." He waited again, and the Colonel opened
the paper and glanced down at it mechanically. It contained first a roster, headed by the list
of six guns, named by name: "Matthew", "Mark", "Luke", and "John", "The Eagle", and "The Cat";
then of the men, beginning with the heading:

              "Those killed".

Then had followed "Those wounded", but this was marked out. Then came a roster of the company
when it first entered service; then of those who had joined afterward; then of those who were
present now. At the end of all there was this statement, not very well written, nor wholly
accurately spelt:

"To Whom it may Concern: We, the above members of the old battery known, etc., of six guns,
named, etc., commanded by the said Col. etc., left on the 11th day of April, 1865, have made
out this roll of the battery, them as is gone and them as is left, to bury with the guns which
the same we bury this night. We're all volunteers, every man; we joined the army at the beginning
of the war, and we've stuck through to the end; sometimes we aint had much to eat, and sometimes
we aint had nothin', but we've fought the best we could 119 battles and skirmishes as near
as we can make out in four years, and never lost a gun. Now we're agoin' home. We aint surrendered;
just disbanded, and we pledges ourselves to teach our children to love the South and General
Lee; and to come when we're called anywheres an' anytime, so help us God."

There was a dead silence whilst the Colonel read. To conclude soon, even with a scratch.

At that time the jokes ended and broke fellowship.

Count lit a cigarette pure calmly and said the most natural:

- So
long, gentlemen.

Had an effective part of value in that calm attitude, unflappable Count, but was also a good
portion of effort and study. The wild young, but highly unlikely literature generally, but received
no influence. What are including private the serialized novels and games. These, novels draw
the ideal figure of a man so same as the books of chivalry. Only in the old novels, the man
sampler was that for the sake of the noble ideas of justice and charity companies rushing over
forces. In modern is the fear of ridicule fails to enthusiastically and every generous action.
The man who risked his life at all times for a cause useful to their peers, which has been
replaced by the nonadas risk of vanity or pride.

The gentleman has happened the swordsman.

The coterie commenting abode of Count serenity. He praised but not very strongly or too long. It is
the first rule of good taste not ever wonder. The second speaking of things neatly mild and severe
sobriety. Deshízose at last get-together evening. They left almost all their illustrious members,
and spread spread Madrid its doctrines, which can be summarized thus: "Man is born destined
to sign twisted whiskers notes and spend.

The work, instruction, order, are prejudicial the state of nature and should be outlawed in all
well-organized society. "

Ramon Maldonado, as ever, clung to the skirts of his friend Pepe Castro. The reader is already
aware of the profound admiration he professed. Now it is know that Pepe Castro was left to admire
full of condescension, and occasionally deigned to introduce him some ineffable secrets relating
to their highest conceptions of English mares and Amber nozzles. Ramon was slowly becoming
clear notions not only of these things, but also the most appropriate way to combine the French
language with Spanish in the family conversation. Pepe Castro had the wonderful gift of forgetting,
at any given time, the Spanish word, and after some hesitation pronounce the perfect French
naturally. Ramon also did, but with less elegance. Distinction was also pretty good Arcachon
oysters of non-Basin, the Chateau-Laffite's Château Margaux, the chest voice, the tenor, the
head voice, and toothpaste of Akinson of the other toothpastes. However, Ramon, like all neophytes,
much more if they have an excited and enthusiastic temperament, he exaggerated the doctrine
of the master. Be an example of this exaggerated shirt collars. Because the high costs Pepe
Castro and tight "Ramon was no reason why he wandered through the streets of God with the language
out, suffering all day preliminary garrotted? And if Pepe Castro, because of a neurological disorder
which had had as a child, closed his left eye often which undoubtedly graced him, what went
right on the winking Ramoncito People with yours? In addition, the young councilman perfume
carried not only the tissue and beard, but all their clothes, so that even went beyond ten meters
and produced about dizziness. Well, after careful consideration, we have not found in the ideas
of revered master no justification for this reprehensible trend. The most beautiful and lofty precepts
of great men, degenerate and pervert to be among followers and followers. Pepe Castro, but warned
these shortcomings and imperfections of his disciple, not the reproached. Before, with the
nobility's own great characters, he lay on his mercy to forgive and hide. Nobody dared in his
presence, mock necks or the twinkle of Ramon.

It was just four when both of the club went wild buttoning gloves. The door was the charrette de Castro,
giving it fired the driver for hours ride. Prior should make a visit to pray for Ramon. They
walked along Prince Street, where the club is located, slowly, watching intently to the women
crossing. Deteníanse sometimes a moment to make some bright signs on their grace and elegance,
not as the timid passer who contemplates and sighs, but as two pashas to fall within a slave market
before choosing and discuss the qualities of each. Men arrojábanles a scornful glance. And
if that was not enough were wrapped in a strong puff of smoke to make them aware that they, Pepe
and Ramon, belonged to a world higher, and that if they walked down the street from the Prince
was only momentary whim. Whenever you condescend to walk a little walk between streets and now
in the expression of face had a tinge of surprise that his step was not welcomed by the crowd with
rumors of admiration.

Maldonado was more loquacious than his friend.

On what was coming and expressed his opinion raising the smiling face toward Castro. This remained
serious, solemn, answering in monosyllables and appropriate grunts. Let's say that Ramon was much
lower than his master, not only moral but also physically. When walking on foot represented truly
the wise one teacher who is leaving drip the stream of his science, the other a fiery newcomer
eager to learn and penetrate it covers his eyes.

- Where are we going? - Casually asked Castro to reach all four streets.

- Man, we had not stayed married for Calderon's house? - Said shyly
and slightly disgruntled Ramon.

- Ah! yes, I forgot.

Councilman Young Greasy silence, admiring in his heart that singular power to forget all that
had his friend.

And followed by the Carrera de San Jerónimo hguardoa Puerta del Sol

- How are you with Esperanza? - Deigned to ask Castro, releasing a
puff of smoke and stopping to look at a showcase.

Ramon suddenly turned serious, almost, almost pale, and began to babble stumbled:

- So, boy .... As soon as the top and bottom .... Some days I find it very nice ... ie, friendly, no,
but less talkative. Others with a nose three yards: leaves when I enter, just answer the greeting,
as if he had offended .... I understand that some have had reason to be angry. Real soil in
the box go to Gamboa, and I think he has it in his head .... I like Rosaura For you see what
nonsense! Rosa! ... But at least one month does not go up to greet ... and the same, the same kid,
same! ... The other day I could catch one in the cabinet a few moments, and I have hastily
said he wanted to know what stayed. Because you see, not a thing to be doing Bear forever .... I
listened patiently .... I warn you that I was completely taken and hardly knew what she was
saying. When I finished he said he had no reason to be angry and ran into the room. After that
who had not understood that was the case fixed? Let's see, either in my case do not think we
were going to enter the field formality? ... Nothing, after two days I go there, try to talk separately
as Groom and gives me a snort that froze me .... And so I am.

I do not know if I want or if you leave loving me, and I have peace of mind to pursue my chores
and do nothing but think in that damn girl.

- I think - said Castro while carefully consider the window against
which were - that this girl I had taken the action.

Ramon looked surprised and respectful at the same time.

- How the
action - he ventured to ask.

- Yes, the action.

What is important in any fight, is to take the action to the contrary. If when he thinks you attack
you attack with determination, it is almost certain to arrive. If hesitate are lost.

As he uttered the last words he left to contemplate the window and
continued his majestic march the sidewalk.

Ramon did the same.

Had misunderstood the application that could have this simile started to fencing where appropriate,
but refrained from asking for explanations.

- So you think ...?

- I think you're too in love with this girl and she knows it.

- But let's see, Joe, what reasons may have to reject me? - Began to say sulphide Ramon and as
if speaking to himself -. What do you expect this girl? ... His father have money, but will give away
several brothers. Mariana is young, and when least thought has begun to take over the world children.
Besides, you know how Julian. Before we will release fourth strips. And frankly, expect to die
I do not think business. I'm not a tycoon, but I have regular fortune, which is mine now,
without waiting for nobody dies .... I can provide the same amenities you have in your home and
the same luxury ... more luxurious - added shaking his head with
reasonable resolution - .Luego, I have to before a political career.

Does she know if one of these days I will not be undersecretary or director? My family is better
than yours: my grandfather was a shopkeeper and father of D. Julian
.... Then, there is a god or anything, one of those girls that draw
attention, you know you?

Why so much fuss made when I am who I please? Do you know who has the guilt? For Cobo Ramirez
and other babieca like him, who have filled the head wind .... No doubt the stupid expected to
come a prince of royal blood to get it! ...

Ramon denied beauty to your beloved.

It is a sign of being deeply and sincerely in love man, not the daughter of his love vanity.
Too much love drew him to injury.

Castro mused that perhaps the fact of being a bit gawky and have the
full skin freckles, influence to succeed his friend did not flattering
in this as in other companies he had undertaken, but failed to show
such suspicion.

Preferred seating, closing eyes and blowing cigar smoke, this general truth:

- The girls are very stupid.

Ramon, in accordance with it in principle, insisted, however, determined by application more
or less legitimate.

- It's a fool! ... Do not know herself what she wants .... Do you
think it may take the realm of formality someday?

This is the realm of formality was a phrase that the professed predilection Councilman Young.
Whenever talking about came from her lips Esperancita three or four
times, as necessarily be associated with his love.

Pepe Castro felt discomfort unspeakable winked his left eye endlessly.

In fact, never liked ideas anticipate future events. Rider was a prophet. But in this case doubly
repugnant because they could announce gloomy his friend and admirer. Engagement took him out
of the appearance of a beautiful and elegant dress that came to meet
them on the sidewalk of Main.

- Here is the Amparo - said with a
dismissive and contemptuous severity Ramoncito admired.

Salabert's mistress came to them smiling, greeting them warmly, particularly
Pepe Castro.

This squeezed her hand without losing its gravity or remove the nozzle
from the teeth, like a comrade who was just seen at the cafe.

- Where
are you going, rascals?

- For home Calderon to spend time.

- Come
with me.

I'm buying a jeweler. Help me to choose ... and I will pay.

He spoke cheerfully affectionate, not the same creature seemed bland and bad mood we have seen
in his small hotel in the neighborhood of the monastery.

Clearly, all the bad humor reserved for Salabert.

- This is good! - Said Castro deigning to smile slightly -.

Do we ask ourselves jewelry when you're at home Salabert pocket? Put your hand on it, silly.

-
I do, son. Neglected.

- Well, you could protect a poor little Manolo, who walks in darkness long ago.

- Poor thing! But really that bad of dosh goes?

I thought it was just the head.

- That is: laugh after you've plucked.

- Hey, kid: I have never plucked, for one simple reason: when he came into my possession and
did not have feathers - Amparo said getting serious.

- It is not true that. Manolo you spent more than forty thousand dollars.

- Have you hard! So I looked at my hair when I got to the door. If takes a while more to do,
I go to San Bernardino to the grand Dumond.

- Well, because he has not spent. What me?

"- Said the gallant Pepe shrugging his shoulders -. Want to come to dinner with us today Fornos?

-
Who?

- With this and with me.

We will also invite Leon and Rafael to carry Nati and Socorro. Do you have any objection to go
Manolo?

- On the contrary, my son, if you want Manolo more than you imagine!

- Well you had better give occasionally a conference close, otherwise I'm afraid soon have to
take the asylum.

- Do not think that is always in my hand.

The other guy is very escamón. Real after it? Do not take me more people. The noise does not suit
me now that I am well placed do you know? Up later. Hey, ugly - addressing Ramon - why do not
you speak?

I already have said they want marry the girl of Calderón .... Well
son, you are hideous and ugly as she whipped a Christ, you are going
to throw some kids that will have to teach in a shack.

Goodbye, Pepe: do not forget the anchovies. You know I do not eat dinner without them. Bye.

Ramon had turned red with anger at hearing to deal with such contempt for his beloved, without
mind that a moment before he had done the same.

And I would have lashed out at the Amparo insolence any fat, if it had not been away without
noticing little or much in distress it caused. Contented with a little murmur ominously grinding
teeth:

- I think I'll get I have no shame!

The encounter with the mistress of Salabert at the time that he was in the most climactic of his
confidences, he had disturbed, and therefore had not taken off his lips. Hastened to knot the
thread where it had broken, asking his friend and teacher:

- Let's
see, Joe: you in my case what would you do?

Castro walked in silence for a while staring at the balconies of the houses caught no doubt
that people do not come out to see him pass. Then, giving three or four long hickey the cigar
and reflective coating and serious air, replied:

- Men's (pause), I, in your case, principiaría by not being in love.

Love is for fanciulla, not for you and me.

- That's inevitable, Pepe! - Said the council in a sad and miserable state that gave worth seeing.

-
Well, if you can not beat this craziness, it is best not to make it known. Why try Esperancita
persuade that you die for it? Do you think that is good for something?

Procura convince her otherwise and see how much better the result.

- What to do? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not get so tired you manifest, man. Do not be such a melon. Do not go home much. Do not look
with eyes half-slaughter sheep. Bring the opposite when you say something stupid: insinúala
that there are women like you more. Take a bit of tone, and you'll see how the making better-looking
case ....

- I can not, I can not, Pepe! - Ramon said running his hand across
his forehead at the height of Grief -.

At first he was still master of myself, I could talk with ease and flirting with others ....
Today it is impossible! So stunning I have before me, I atortolo, I say more than nonsense. If
I find it particularly bad mood. Each answer leaves me yours ice cream. You can not imagine why
so dismissive tone that girl knows how to draw when he wants. If I try to talk to the other, simply
that I put Hope's smiling face to let her immediately. I have come to spend a month without addressing
just the word, but finally I could not resist any longer and went to surrender. I prefer their
conversation, but abuse me, to all other ....

They were silent as if you walk under the weight of a terrible tragedy.

Pepe Castro meditated.

- You're lost, Ramon - he finally pulling the tip of the cigarette and rubbing the nipple with the tissue
before storing -. You're completely lost. All that you tell me no common sense. Conduct yourself
if you knew you had not reached such a state. Women they are always treated with the tip of
the boot, then go admirably ....

After pouring these brief and profound words, stepped in front of a window.

- Man, look at so beautiful necklace.

If you come well to Perl bought it.

Ramon looked at the collar without seeing it, entirely absorbed in his saddest thoughts.

- Well, yes, Ramoncillo - continued the distinguished wild throwing an arm around the shoulder
- you are lost .... However, I am committed to ensuring that you would hope so you to do what
I said .... Tested my method.

- Rehearse what you want. I want to exit at any cost in this situation - said Councilman moved.

-
Well, look, so you will not go home soon Calderon but eight or ten days .... We will together or
we will be there. You should not be alone: ​​In a moment of weakness would miss to lose all
the work.

Speak little hope and much to the girls there are. Procura extol blondes, to high, the white, in
short, women with type opposed to it and be sure to get excited enough.

Bring the contrary, but no hurry much. You are very stubborn and should
not play too much.

A soft and contemptuous tone takes best effect. It is best to look at me from time to time.
I will make a sign with dissimulation: so you will always treading
on firm ....

Yet, before reaching the door of the house of Calderon
Castro had time to enlarge other valuable data with this gallant didascalon
sample of his talent.

Only an intelligence wonderfully perspicuous and utilized together
with long experience, just a refined spirit could penetrate so deeply
into the secret conflict that resistance to devote Hope Ramoncito
his heart, he had created.

At the same time was the only one who could provide a solution satisfactory.

The young councilman came to her beloved home in a state of relative
tranquility.

As for his intimate purposes, we can only say he was determined to
put on a great aspect of dignity and resistance to openly oppose invasive
tendencies Calderón of the girl.

Thought it appropriate to start putting your hands in your pockets and folded lips with a smirk
ironic and protective.

Thus came into the room where the family was gathered wealthy banker,
swinging his head as if he could not because of her countless of thoughts
that kept indoors, the elegant manners of rude manners there more
than a step, as the sublime to the ridiculous.

So we dare not ensure that Ramon, the first stage of his conversation
with Esperanza, it's always kept this side of elegance.

There are some grounds for thinking that it was not so.

What, saving our awareness of true historians can say is that pretty
soon Esperancita time to notice, after warning that it did not cause
the deep impression which was expected.

In the sewing cabinet where introduced, they were embroidering Ms Hope, Mariana and Esperanza.
Or talking with accuracy, which were embroidered Dona Esperanza and Esperanza: Mariana remained
seated in a chair, staring into space in perfect stillness.

Pepe Castro and Ramon were close friends of the family and were received
without ceremony and welcome.

After a few handshakes elusive, with the sole exception of Maldonado
to Esperanza, which was not done intentionally because it was distracted
to give decent start to the large number of slights of any kind that
torment their thought adored acomodáronse in separate chairs.

Mariana alongside Pepe, Ramon with Ms Hope.

Before doing so, the youth council has already had a moment of weakness.

Seeing something Esperancita away from his mother and grandmother thought it was propitious occasion
to have conversation with her secret, and hesitated in taking his
seat there.

Castro A look expressive of him back in agreed.

- Buenos eyes seeing
you, Pepe - Esperanza said, fixing his own, laughing and nothing ugly
in the famous wild.

- Precious are those who are seeing now - Ramon
said quickly.

Castro, before answering, he looked back severely.

The councilman, stunned, said to amenguar a bit his clumsiness:

-
Because this is a family of pretty eyes.

- Thanks, Ramon.

And you begin to be false as all politicians - said Mariana.
- Always righteous, Mariana! - Said that, red with pleasure, hearing
himself called a public man.

- How many days has it been since I've
been here - Castro asked the girl.

- The least fifteen .... You see,
has been the last time on Monday .... Pacita was here .... Today is
Saturday .... Thirteen just days.

Never had such a mind the days
when Maldonado visiting the house. Castro welcomed This indifferent
interest test.

- I did so many days .... How time flies! said deeply.

-
Sure! You are flies away from us.

The young man smiled kindly and
asked permission to light a cigarette. Then he said:

- No, still
happens to me more quickly beside you.

- More than at Aunt Clementina?
- Asked the girl in an innocent tone that cast doubt of his intention.

Castro
became serious and stared. His relations with the daughter had Salabert
hitherto kept quite secret. Which were discovered at the home of his
sister husband was disturbed. Esperanza was like a cherry under the
gaze of the young.

- Same - concluded by saying coldly -. All are
good friends.

- Are you going home today from my sister? - Mariana
said without realizing what was happening.

- Ramon and I'll go: Is
not today Saturday? And you?

- I have no desire to receive. A few
days ago I feel a little discomfort in the throat.

- Do not say you're
sick, Mom. Say that you like better go to bed early - said Esperancita
with bad humor.

The mother looked at her with big eyes, dull.

-
I have a sore throat, girl.

- What a coincidence! - Said it in ironic
twang -. I have not heard it until now.

- If you feel like going
- said Mariana finishing guess - you take your dad.

- You know that
Dad, not leaving you, not come out.

Esperanza's tone revealed spite.
Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and a look
of triumph to his friend Pepe. I think
the jury became satisfied that if any money had been taken the bar-keeper, to make out a case
against "No. 4", had taken it himself. But there was a technical breaking, and it had to be
got around; so his counsel appealed to the jury, telling them what he knew of "No. 4", together
with the story of the child's dog, and "No. 4"'s reply. There were one or two old soldiers
on the jury, and they acquitted him, on which he somehow managed to get whiskey enough to land
him back in jail in twenty-four hours.

In May, 1890, there was a monument unveiled in Richmond. It was a great occasion, and not only
all Virginia, but the whole South, participated in it with great fervor, much enthusiasm, and
many tears. It was an occasion for sacred memories. The newspapers talked about it for a good
while beforehand; preparations were made for it as for the celebration of a great and general
ceremony in which the whole South was interested. It was interested, because it was not only
the unveiling of a monument for the old commander, the greatest and loftiest Southerner, and,
as the South holds, man, of his time; it was an occasion consecrated to the whole South; it
was the embalming in precious memories, and laying away in the tomb of the Southern Confederacy:
the apotheosis of the Southern people. As such all were interested in it, and all prepared
for it. It was known that all that remained of the Southern armies would be there: of the armies
that fought at Shiloh, and Bull Run, and Fort Republic; at Seven Pines, Gaines's Mill, and
Cold Harbor; at Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg; at Franklin, Atlanta,
Murfreesboro, and Chickamauga, Spottsylvania, the Wilderness, and Petersburg; and the whole
South, Union as it is now and ready to fight the nation's battles, gathered to glorify Lee,
the old commander, and to see and glorify the survivors of those and other bloody fields in
which the volunteer soldiers of the South had held the world at bay, and added to the glorious
history of their race. Men came all the way from Oregon and California to be present. Old one-legged
soldiers stumped it from West Virginia. Even "No. 4", though in the gutter, caught the contagion,
and shaped up and became sober. He got a good suit of clothes somewhere--not new--and appeared
quite respectable. He even got something to do, and, in token of what he had been, was put
on one of the many committees having a hand in the entertainment arrangements. I never saw
a greater change in anyone. It looked as if there was hope for him yet. He stopped me on the
street a day or two before the unveiling and told me he had a piece of good news: the remnant
of his old company was to be here; he had got hold of the last one,--there were nine of them
left,--and he had his old jacket that he had worn in the war, and he was going to wear it on
the march. "It's worn, of course," he said, "but my mother put some patches over the holes,
and except for the stain on it it's in good order. I believe I am the only one of the boys
that has his jacket still; my mother kept this for me; I have never got so hard up as to part
with it. I'm all right now. I mean to be buried in it."

I had never remarked before what a refined face he had; his enthusiasm made him look younger
than I had ever seen him.

I saw him on the day before the eve of the unveiling; he was as busy as a bee, and looked almost
handsome. "The boys are coming in by every train," he said. "Look here." He pulled me aside,
and unbuttoned his vest. A piece of faded gray cloth was disclosed. He had the old gray jacket
on under his other coat. "I know the boys will like to see it," he said. "I'm going down to
the train now to meet one--Binford Terrell. I don't know whether I shall know him. Binford
and I used to be much of a size. We did not use to speak at one time; had a falling out about
which one should hold the horses; I made him do it, but I reckon he won't remember it now.
I don't. I have not touched a drop. Good-by." He went off.

The next night about bedtime I got a message that a man wanted to see me at the jail immediately.
It was urgent. Would I come down there at once? I had a foreboding, and I went down. It was
as I suspected. "No. 4" was there behind the bars. "Drunk again," said the turnkey, laconically,
as he let me in. He let me see him. He wanted me to see the judge and get him out. He besought
me. He wept. "It was all an accident;" he had "found some of the old boys, and they had got
to talking over old times, and just for old times' sake," etc. He was too drunk to stand up;
but the terror of being locked up next day had sobered him, and his mind was perfectly clear.
He implored me to see the judge and to get him to let him out. "Tell him I will come back here
and stay a year if he will let me out to-morrow," he said brokenly. He showed me the gray jacket
under his vest, and was speechless. Even then he did not ask release on the ground that he
was a veteran. I never knew him to urge this reason. Even the officials who must have seen
him there fifty times were sympathetic; and they told me to see the justice, and they believed
he would let him out for next day. I applied to him as they suggested. He said, "Come down
to court to-morrow morning." I did so. "No. 4" was present, pale and trembling. As he stood
there he made a better defence than any one else could have made for him. He admitted his guilt,
and said he had nothing to say in extenuation except that it was the "old story", he "had not
intended it; he deserved it all, but would like to get off that day; had a special reason for
it, and would, if necessary, go back to jail that evening and stay there a year, or all his
life." As he stood awaiting sentence, he looked like a damned soul. His coat was unbuttoned,
and his old, faded gray jacket showed under it. The justice, to his honor, let him off: let
all offenders off that day. "No. 4" shook hands with him, unable to speak, and turned away.
Then he had a strange turn. We had hard work to get him to go into the procession. He positively
refused; said he was not fit to go, or to live; began to cry, and took off his jacket. He would
go back to jail, he said. We finally got him straight; accepted from him a solemn promise not
to touch a drop till the celebration was over, so help him God, and sent him off to join his
old command at the tobacco-warehouse on the slip where the cavalry rendezvoused. I had some
apprehension that he would not turn up in the procession; but I was mistaken. He was there
with the old cavalry veterans, as sober as a judge, and looking every inch a soldier.

It was a strange scene, and an impressive one even to those whose hearts were not in sympathy
with it in any respect. Many who had been the hardest fighters against the South were in sympathy
with much of it, if not with all. But to those who were of the South, it was sublime. It passed
beyond mere enthusiasm, however exalted, and rested in the profoundest and most sacred deeps
of their being. There were many cheers, but more tears; not tears of regret or mortification,
but tears of sympathy and hallowed memory. The gayly decorated streets, in all the bravery
of fluttering ensigns and bunting; the martial music of many bands; the constant tramp of marching
troops; the thronged sidewalks, verandas, and roofs; the gleam of polished arms and glittering
uniforms; the flutter of gay garments, and the smiles of beautiful women sweet with sympathy;
the long line of old soldiers, faded and broken and gray, yet each self-sustained, and inspired
by the life of the South that flowed in their veins, marching under the old Confederate battle-flags
that they had borne so often in victory and in defeat--all contributed to make the outward
pageant a scene never to be forgotten. But this was merely the outward image; the real fact
was the spirit. It was the South. It was the spirit of the South; not of the new South, nor
yet merely of the old South, but the spirit of the great South. When the young troops from
every Southern State marched by in their fresh uniforms, with well-drilled battalions, there
were huzzas, much applause and enthusiasm; when the old soldiers came there was a tempest:
wild cheers choking with sobs and tears, the well-known, once-heard-never-forgotten cry of
the battling South, known in history as "the rebel yell". Men and women and children joined
in it. It began at the first sight of the regular column, swelled up the crowded streets, rose
to the thronged housetops, ran along them for squares like a conflagration, and then came rolling
back in volume only to rise and swell again greater than before. Men wept; children shrilled;
women sobbed aloud. What was it! Only a thousand or two of old or aging men riding or tramping
along through the dust of the street, under some old flags, dirty and ragged and stained. But
they represented the spirit of the South; they represented the spirit which when honor was
in question never counted the cost; the spirit that had stood up for the South against overwhelming
odds for four years, and until the South had crumbled and perished under the forces of war;
the spirit that is the strongest guaranty to us to-day that the Union is and is to be; the
spirit that, glorious in victory, had displayed a fortitude yet greater in defeat. They saw
in every stain on those tattered standards the blood of their noblest, bravest, and best; in
every rent a proof of their glorious courage and sacrifice. They saw in those gray and careworn
faces, in those old clothes interspersed now and then with a faded gray uniform, the men who
in the ardor of their youth had, for the South, faced death undaunted on a hundred fields,
and had never even thought it great; men who had looked immortality in the eyes, yet had been
thrown down and trampled underfoot, and who were greater in their overthrow than when glory
poured her light upon their upturned faces. Not one of them all but was self-sustaining, sustained
by the South, or had ever even for one moment thought in his direst extremity that he would
have what was, undone.

The crowd was immense; the people on the fashionable street up which the procession passed
were fortunate; they had the advantage of their yards and porticos, and they threw them open
to the public. Still the throng on the sidewalks was tremendous, and just before the old veterans
came along the crush increased. As it resettled itself I became conscious that a little old
woman in a rusty black dress whom I had seen patiently standing alone in the front line on
the street corner for an hour had lost her position, and had been pushed back against the railing,
and had an anxious, disappointed look on her face. She had a little, faded knot of Confederate
colors fastened in her old dress, and, almost hidden by the crowd, she was looking up and down
in some distress to see if she could not again get a place from which she could see. Finally
she seemed to give it up, and stood quite still, tiptoeing now and then to try to catch a glimpse.
I saw someone about to help her when, from a gay and crowded portico above her, a young and
beautiful girl in a white dress, whom I had been observing for some time as the life of a gay
party, as she sat in her loveliness, a queen on her throne with her courtiers around her, suddenly
arose and ran down into the street. There was a short colloquy. The young beauty was offering
something which the old lady was declining; but it ended in the young girl leading the older
woman gently up on to her veranda and giving her the chair of state. She was hardly seated
when the old soldiers began to pass.

As the last mounted veterans came by, I remembered that I had not seen "No. 4"; but as I looked
up, he was just coming along. In his hand, with staff resting on his toe, he carried an old
standard so torn and tattered and stained that it was scarcely recognizable as a flag. I did
not for a moment take in that it was he, for he was not in the gray jacket which I had expected
to see. He was busy looking down at the throng on the sidewalk, apparently searching for some
one whom he expected to find there. He was in some perplexity, and pulled in his horse, which
began to rear. Suddenly the applause from the portico above arrested his attention, and he
looked toward it and bowed. As he did so his eye caught that of the old lady seated there.
His face lighted up, and, wheeling his prancing horse half around, he dipped the tattered standard,
and gave the royal salute as though saluting a queen. The old lady pressed her wrinkled hand
over the knot of faded ribbon on her breast, and made a gesture to him, and he rode on. He
had suddenly grown handsome. I looked at her again; her eyes were closed, her hands were clasped,
and her lips were moving. I saw the likeness: she was his mother. As he passed me I caught
his eye. He saw my perplexity about the jacket, glanced up at the torn colors, and pointed
to a figure just beyond him dressed in a short, faded jacket. "No. 4" had been selected, as
the highest honor, to carry the old colors which he had once saved; and not to bear off all
the honors from his friend, he had with true comradeship made Binford Terrell wear his cherished
jacket. He made a brave figure as he rode away, and my cheer died on my lips as I thought of
the sad, old mother in her faded knot, and of the dashing young soldier who had saved the colors
in that unnamed fight.

After that we got him a place, and he did well for several months. He seemed to be cured. New
life and strength appeared to come back to him. But his mother died, and one night shortly
afterward he disappeared, and remained lost for several days. When we found him he had been
brought to jail, and I was sent for to see about him. He was worse than I had ever known him.
He was half-naked and little better than a madman. I went to a doctor about him, an old army
surgeon, who saw him, and shook his head. "'Mania a potu'. Very bad; only a question of time,"
he said. This was true. "No. 4" was beyond hope. Body and brain were both gone. It got to be
only a question of days, if not of hours. Some of his other friends and I determined that he
should not die in jail; so we took him out and carried him to a cool, pleasant room looking
out on an old garden with trees in it. There in the dreadful terror of raving delirium he passed
that night. I with several others sat up with him. I could not have stood many more like it.
All night long he raved and tore. His oaths were blood-curdling. He covered every past portion
of his life. His army life was mainly in his mind. He fought the whole war over. Sometimes
he prayed fervently; prayed against his infirmity; prayed that his chains might be broken.
Then he would grow calm for awhile. One thing recurred constantly: he had sold his honor, betrayed
his cause. This was the order again and again, and each time the paroxysm of frightful fury
came on, and it took all of us to hold him. He was covered with snakes: they were chains on
his wrists and around his body. He tried to pull them from around him. At last, toward morning,
came one of those fearful spells, worse than any that had gone before. It passed, and he suddenly
seemed to collapse. He sank, and the stimulant administered failed to revive him.

"He is going," said the doctor, quietly, across the bed. Whether his dull ear caught the word
or not, I cannot say; but he suddenly roused up, tossed one arm, and said:

"Binford, take the horses. I'm going to old Joe," and sank back.

"He's gone," said the doctor, opening his shirt and placing his ear over his heart. As he rose
up I saw two curious scars on "No. 4"'s emaciated breast. They looked almost like small crosses,
about the size of the decorations the European veterans wear. The old doctor bent over and
examined them.

"Hello! Bayonet-wounds," he said briefly.

A little later I went out to get a breath of fresh morning air to quiet my nerves, which were
somewhat unstrung. As I passed by a little second-hand clothing-store of the meanest kind,
in a poor, back street, I saw hanging up outside an old gray jacket. I stopped to examine it.
It was stained behind with mud, and in front with a darker color. An old patch hid a part of
the front; but a close examination showed two holes over the breast. It was "No. 4"'s lost
jacket. I asked the shopman about it. He had bought it, he said, of a pawnbroker who had got
it from some drunkard, who had probably stolen it last year from some old soldier. He readily
sold it, and I took it back with me; and the others being gone, an old woman and I cut the
patch off it and put "No. 4"'s stiffening arms into the sleeves. Word was sent to us during
the day to say that the city would bury him in the poorhouse grounds. But we told them that
arrangements had been made; that he would have a soldier's burial. And he had it.

MISS DANGERLIE'S ROSES

Henry Floyd was a crank, at least so many people said; a few thought he was a wonderful person:
these were mostly children, old women, and people not in the directory, and persons not in
the directory do not count for much. He was in fact a singular fellow. It was all natural enough
to him; he was just like what he believed his father had been, his father of whom his mother
used to tell him, and whom he remembered so vaguely except when he had suddenly loomed up in
his uniform at the head of his company, when they went away on that march from which he had
never returned. He meant to be like him, if he was not, and he remembered all that his mother
had told him of his gentleness, his high courtesy, his faithfulness, his devotion to duty,
his unselfishness. So it was all natural enough to Floyd to be as he was. But a man can no
more tell whether or not he is a crank than he can tell how old he looks. He was, however,
without doubt, different in certain ways from most people. This his friends admitted. Some
said he was old-fashioned; some that he was "old-timey"; some that he was unpractical, the
shades of criticism ranging up to those saying he was a fool. This did not mean intellectually,
for none denied his intellect. He drove a virile pen, and had an epigrammatic tongue. He had
had a hard time. He had borne the yoke in his youth. This, we have strong authority for saying,
is good for a man; but it leaves its mark upon him. He had been desperately poor. He had not
minded that except for his mother, and he had approved of her giving up every cent to meet
the old security debts. It had cut him off from his college education; but he had worked till
he was a better scholar than he might have been had he gone to college. He had kept his mother
comfortable as long as she lived, and then had put up a monument over her in the old churchyard,
as he had done before to his father's memory. This, everyone said, was foolish, and perhaps
it was, for it took him at least two years to pay for them, and he might have laid up the money
and got a start, or, as some charitable persons said, it might have been given to the poor.
However, the monuments were put up, and on them were epitaphs which recorded at length the
virtues of those to whom they were erected, with their descent, and declared that they were
Christians and Gentlepeople. Some one said to Floyd that he might have shortened the epitaphs,
and have saved something. "I did not want them shortened," said he.

He had borne the yoke otherwise also. One of the first things he had done after starting in
life was to fall in love with a beautiful woman. She was very beautiful and a great belle.
Every one said it was sheer nonsense for Henry Floyd to expect her to marry him, as poor as
he was, which was natural enough. The only thing was that she led Floyd to believe she was
going to marry him when she did not intend to do it, and it cost him a great deal of unhappiness.
He never said one word against her, not even when she married a man much older than himself,
simply, as everyone said, because he was very rich. If Floyd ever thought that she treated
him badly, no one ever knew it, and when finally she left her husband, no one ever ventured
to discuss it before Floyd.

Henry Floyd, however, had suffered,--that everyone could see who had eyes; but only he knew
how much. Generally grave and dreamy; when quiet as calm as a dove, as fierce as a hawk when
aroused; moving always in an eccentric orbit, which few understood; flashing out now and then
gleams which some said were sparks of genius but which most people said were mere eccentricity,
he had sunk into a recluse. He was in this state when he met HER. He always afterward referred
to her so. He was at a reception when he came upon her on a stairway. A casual word about his
life, a smile flashed from her large, dark, luminous eyes, lighting up her face, and Henry
Floyd awoke. She had called him from the dead. It was a case of love at first sight. From that
time he never had a thought for anyone else, least of all for himself. He lived in her and
for her. He blossomed under her sympathy as a tree comes out under the sunshine and soft breath
of spring. He grew, he broadened. She was his sun, his breath of life; he worshipped her. Then
one day she died--suddenly--sank down and died as a butterfly might die, chilled by a blast.
With her Henry Floyd buried his youth. For a time people were sympathetic; but they began immediately
to speculate about him, then to gossip about him. It made no difference to him or in him. He
was like a man that is dead, who felt no more. One thing about a great sorrow is that it destroys
all lesser ones. A man with a crushed body does not feel pinpricks. Henry Floyd went on his
way calmly, doggedly, mechanically. He drifted on and was talked about continually. Gossip
would not let him alone, so she did him the honor to connect his name with that of every woman
he met. In fact, there was as much reason to mention all as one. He was fond of women, and
enjoyed them. Women liked him too. There was a certain gentleness mingled with firmness, a
kind of protecting air about him which women admired, and a mystery of impenetrable sadness
which women liked. Every woman who knew him trusted him, and had a right to trust him. To none
was he indifferent, but in none was he interested. He was simply cut off. A physician who saw
him said, "That man is dying of loneliness." This went on for some years. At last his friends
determined to get him back into society. They made plans for him and carried them out to a
certain length; there the plans failed. Floyd might be led up to the water, but none could
make him drink; there he took the bit in his teeth and went his own way. He would be invited
to meet a girl at a dinner got up for his benefit, that he might meet her, and would spend
the evening hanging over a little unheard-of country cousin with a low voice and soft eyes,
entertaining her with stories of his country days or of his wanderings; or he would be put
by some belle, and after five minutes' homage spend the time talking to some old lady about
her grandchildren. "You must marry," they said to him. "When one rises from the dead," he replied.
At length, his friends grew tired of helping him and gave him up, and he dropped out and settled
down. Commiseration is one of the bitter things of life. But Floyd had what is harder to bear
than that. It did not affect his work. It was only his health and his life that suffered. He
was like a man who has lost the senses of touch and taste and sight. If he minded it, he did
not show it. One can get used to being bedridden.

One thing about him was that he always appeared poor. He began to be known as an inventor and
writer. It was known that he received high prices for what he did; but he appeared to be no
better off than when he made nothing. Some persons supposed that he gambled; others whispered
that he spent it in other dissipation. In fact, one lady gave a circumstantial account of the
way he squandered his money, and declared herself very glad that he had never visited her daughters.
When this was repeated to Floyd, he said he fortunately did not have to account to her for
the way he spent his money. He felt that the woman out under the marble cross knew how his
money went, and so did the little cousin who was named after her, and who was at school. He
had a letter from her in his pocket at that moment. So he drifted on.

At length one evening he was at a reception in a strange city whither his business had taken
him. The rooms were filled with light and beauty. Floyd was standing chatting with a child
of ten years, whom he found standing in a corner, gazing out with wide questioning eyes on
the throng. They were friends instantly, and he was telling her who the guests were, as they
came sailing in, giving them fictitious names and titles. "They are all queens," he told her,
at which she laughed. She pointed out a tall and stately woman with a solemn face, and with
a gleaming bodice on like a cuirass, and her hair up on her head like a casque. "Who is that?"

"Queen Semiramis."

"And who is that?" It was a stout lady with a tiara of diamonds, a red face, and three feathers.

"Queen Victoria, of course."

"And who am I?" She placed her little hand on her breast with a pretty gesture.

"The Queen of Hearts," said Floyd, quickly, at which she laughed outright. "Oh! I must not
laugh," she said, checking herself and glancing around her with a shocked look. "I forgot."

"You shall. If you don't, you sha'n't know who another queen is."

"No, mamma told me I must not make a bit of noise; it is not style, you know, but you mustn't
be so funny."

"Good heavens!" said Floyd.

"Oh! who is this coming?" A lady richly dressed was making her way toward them. "The Queen
of Sheba--coming to see Solomon," said Floyd, as she came up to him. "Let me introduce you
to a beautiful girl, Sarah Dangerlie," she said, and drew him through the throng toward a door,
where he was presented to a tall and strikingly handsome girl and made his bow and a civil
speech, to which the young lady responded with one equally polite and important. Other men
were pressing around her, to all of whom she made apt and cordial speeches, and Floyd fell
back and rejoined his little girl, whose face lit up at his return.

"Oh! I was so afraid you were going away with her."

"And leave you? Never, I'm not so easily disposed of."

"Everyone goes with her. They call her the Queen."

"Do they?"

"Do you like her?"

"Yes."

"You don't," she said, looking at him keenly.

"Yes, she is beautiful."

"Everyone says so."

"She isn't as beautiful as someone else I know," said Floyd, pleasantly.

"Isn't she? As whom?"

Floyd took hold of the child's hand and said, "Let's go and get some supper."

"I don't like her," said the little girl, positively.

"Don't you?" said Floyd. He stopped and glanced across the room toward where the girl had stood.
He saw only the gleam of her fine shoulders as she disappeared in the crowd surrounded by her
admirers.

A little later Floyd met the young lady on the stairway. 

Pepa plan had changed: he thought it would be much better to take the diplomatic channel. A boy as Emilio,
who had been unruly until then, it was easy to lure him with affection. He, in the darkness of
the car had been red.

- The Mary Huerta is worthless.

- So you like. All men are the same thing about changing the ears and tail. Look, Emilito - said
taking his hand, - I had to reñirte much talk very seriously say bitter things ... but I can not,
I have a heart so stupid that for all offenses is apologize. Today you have made a mark evil
thing, enough to Irene to separate from you, but to me it seems to
me that is not as great as it sounds, because you are a dazed boy.

I'm sure you yourself do not you explain the seriousness of it ....

Pepa continued his sermon sweet tone and persuasive. Emilio, he expected a dash of insult, was
pleasantly surprised. Escuchólo with submission, and then, with trembling voice, began to
apologize. Truth that had flirted a bit with Mary Huerta, but swore he was not interested in
her. It was a matter of pride. When he was married to Irene, Mary had told this house Osorio
Irene did not understand how a husband accepted a guy so ugly and pointless. Then swore he
would swallow those words was already achieved.

Otherwise what love and what pumpkins! I had never been in love with Mary Huerta and thought
to be.

- I could not believe you were in love, because you've always had good taste .... Because in short, that
woman is nothing but a bundle of rags .... If you saw the broomstick
as it may well take his place .... But you see, Irene believe it and
you have an obligation to avoid these troubles.

If I were in your case I would give them, puppet - added seizing fondly of the ear -. I have
you would know it tided my skirts.

- I believe - said the young
man directing a long look that had nothing to subsidiary -.

You Irene has more resources.

- Why?

"- She asked another look little maternal.

- Because you are a woman more complicated, it needs more study.

By the same token, I would time for boredom.

- What do you know that, mamarrachillo? You talk about me as if I only knew by heart.

- What else would I!

- Go, Emilio, you're not clown! Look, you're disrespecting me.

The conversation continued in this light-hearted and loving as the
carriage rolled through the streets bleak.

In that dark corner, rocked by the motion of the springs and dazed by the noise of the wheels
to jump on the floor, the whisper became increasingly intimate, more
insinuating, busy all the time by chuckles and sweet little words.

In both had taken a soft tenderness; Pepa for having found his son
so docile, it to see his mother so loving and compromising, thinking
to find a fury.

Animated with its success, caressed by the sweet confidence suddenly
established between them, did not stop compliments.

Pepa got angry or upset pretended, gave pinching fierce called him
a hypocrite, flirtatious, shameless.

He concluded by saying:

- All that you say yours is a farce. If it were true I would be glad, because that would some
influence on you to make a good husband.

Out of the car, face on, more beautiful than ever, said:

- Upload a moment: I have to give the watch to Irene, that you forgot yesterday.

Emilio's arm rose and went with her in his cabinet.

Meanwhile, Irene came home in an agitated state in easy to understand sensitive girl and loved
her husband. Emilio's conduct that night had upset, had put too nervous. And for a grand finale,
the violent scene which provided between her mother and her husband, which would perhaps his final
break with it, filled it terror.

So, I just jumped to the ground before the door, a sudden rush of
a live irresistible desire, remounted hastily, saying the driver:

-
A Mom's.

He opened the outer door serene: the floor the servant who
had been watching and Master output waiting to go to cost.

- Where's
Mom?

- In the front room with Miss Emily.

Irene went to the room hastily. Not there. He went to the boudoir. Nor, or heard the slightest
noise. He entered the cabinet. Nothing. Then, overcome with terror, doubt, anxiety, threw
himself into the room concealed by curtains of brocade which thought he heard a rumor. At that
moment the curtain rose and her husband appeared agitated and upset, staring with terrified eyes.
Irene gave a scream and collapsed on the pavement.

XII

# Matinée religion. #

A few days later, at eleven o'clock on a Friday of Lent, the finest wild Madrid came from a
peaceful sleep and deep with the firm intention to marry the daughter Calderon. He opened his eyes, walked
by the horse ornaments hanging on the walls of his room, stretched gracefully, she drank a glass
of lemon that was on the table night and prepared to rise. Not claim that the said order to come
to his spirit during sleep, but it is undeniable that it must have operated in a mysterious work
that benefited significantly.

Because at the time of going to bed, thinking only vaguely Castro this fruitful union. He opened
his eyes, his determination to achieve by hand Esperancita every
means in their power was now irrevocable.

Thus welcome wholeheartedly the lucky girl and carefully follow the
noble savage in the task of perfecting the Nature cunning work that
had been carried out to create you.

The servant had already prepared the bath. After taking a look in the mirror to observe the
face the day, this is yours, took a ball of iron and made them some moves. Took a foil and threw back
a few times. Then applied a few dozen punches straight on the pad of a dynamometer. Fact which he
thought came the moment of getting in the water. Inside it was even when he appeared in the
room, unannounced, Manolo Dávalos.

- Pepe, I have to tell you about something very serious - he said
the lunatic Marquis, with unit mystery eyes more lost than ever.

-
Wait a little, let me leave the bathroom.

- Go early, it is urgent.

The marquis rose from his chair he was sitting and began to walk around
the bizarre stay with some trepidation, to which his friends were
accustomed.

I could not keep still five minutes. If any hiciese after half a day of movement he would
fall surrendered before nightfall.

Castro followed his movements with mocking eyes and dismissive.

But these eyes became serious and anxious to see his friend approached to the bedside table and began
to play with a gun that there was precious.

- See what is loaded, Manolo.

- I see, now - he replied, smiling, and turning suddenly:

- What
they say in Madrid, if I kill you now have a shot?

Pepe Castro felt some tingling in the back, which was not produced
only by water, and laughed in a strange way.

- So, today, I could
do with impunity - remained very cheerful the Marquis -.

Because as everyone says I'm crazy ....

- Ha, ha!

The philandering laugh again as the rabbit. It was not cowardly, in contrast, had a reputation
for fastidious and swordsman, but, like most courageous public needed. The prospect of a dark death
at the hands of a madman, did not damn funny. Examples of Seneca, Marat, and other remarkable
men who died violently in the bathroom failed to give any amenity perhaps because they had no
news.

The marquis advanced with cocked revolver, saying:

- What they say in Madrid? Huh? What say?

Castro was besieged cold penetrated as if stuck in ice and not in warm water. But even serenity
had to yell:

- Leave the gun, Manolo! If you do not leave do not return to see in your life to Amparo.

- Why? - Said that lowering the gun with bereavement painted eyes.

-
Because I do not want, for the advise that you do not let in more
at home ....

- Well, man, trouble not thyself .... It was a joke
- said rushing to put the revolver in place.

Castro went to the bathroom immediately.

The first thing he did when he was involved in the cap that dried Turkish, was to take the
gun and keep it low key.

Quiet now, but irritated by the shock that his idiot friend had given him, began to speak gruffly
and negligible, while the mirror lavished on her beautiful figure, with all due respect, all the
care that was owed.

- Let's see, man, out with the secret .... It
will be a stupid thing of which you get used to .... Kid yourself,
Manolo, you're not to go out.

You get a priest - said while rubbing her arms with a fragrant ointment
that he had taken from the battery jars and jars of all sizes before
him.

The Marquis put his hand in his pocket, and pulling out her wallet
and a little note of a woman, said with no little solemnity

- Amparo
just wrote me this letter.

I want you knowing about it.

Pepe did not even turn his eyes to look at the document that his friend
exhibited.

Absorbed in the task of stroking his mustache with a beard brush, said in a tone distracted:

-
And what does the Amparo?

The Marquis looked surprised at the lack of importance given to this beautiful letter.

- Do you want to read it?

- If it is not very long ....

Manolo unfolded with the same care and respect that if an autograph from Santa Teresa Jesus
and read with trembling voice:

"My beloved Manolo: send me the favor of the giver that I need two thousand pesetas urgently. Now
if you do not, do not forget to bring him home this afternoon. Thine heart always:

"UNDER."

- Blow! What voracity of that girl! Do not have enough to Salabert
pocket?

I guess that they are not've sent.

- No.

- You did well.

- It's that did not.

Just to see if you can facilitármelas is what I have come.

Castro turned to him and watched him a few moments between angry and surprised. Returning then view
mirror, he said quietly contemptuous:

- Dear Manolo, are a large melon. I'm sure if now inherits your aunt, handed over the legacy
of the Amparito for the engullese as it has done with your parents.

Manolo was furious to hear this. Vigorously defended his former mistress. There she was, not
who had ruined him, but the rogues of the stewards. Was a girl under excellent conditions for
a housewife, a portent of domestic arrangement: while generous, capable
of accommodating any life for the love, etc., etc.

The manic Marquis
spoke with warmth and eloquence by the eulogy of his beloved.

- Do
you know where all evil? - Said dully, after a long pause -.

In my family deprived me, for no reason, to marry her. What a stupid obstinacy! Insisted that I
was madly in love with that woman. What was to be in love!

... What I wanted was a mother to my children, you know?

Nothing more than that. They would have been happy and me too.

Pepe Castro became speechless.

For the pale cheeks of a few tears rolled Marquis of emotion. He made a gesture of sympathy
and continued grooming mustache. After few moments of silence, said:

- Exemption, boy. I have not those two thousand pesetas, but although you can be sure I had
that would keep me from going to give them to you if used as you say.

The marquis was silent and began to stroll through the spacious bedroom.

- Who do you advise me that the asking? - Said stopping suddenly.

- A Salabert - Castro replied grinning in the mirror.

Manolito hear terribly curled, his eyes flashed ominously, he went frantically waving their fists,
to Pepe, who turned to him and stepped back preparing to reject.

- That you've said is bullshit! It is an outrage that deserves a lunge or a shot! It is cowardly
because you are at home ....

And he began to gnash their teeth and rolling eyes that gave him fear, but did not attack his friend.
Making a supreme effort to hold back, vented his anger against throwing hat the ground, so that it
destroyed. Castro was stunned, made a statue. A thousand times he had joked with him saying things
much stronger, real insolence without ever would have thought angry. And now, a very simple joke,
sat in anger of that strange way. He tried to calm him with some words of apology but Manolito
not listening. Although it withdrew from the first idea to throw on him, began to walk like
a caged animal, muttering threats, waving his arms and gesturing strongly. Relent soon, however.

-
Never thought you, Pepe - concluded by saying in an agitated voice -. I never thought that the greatest
friend I have had to insult me, I had to stick the dagger to the hilt ....

- But, man! ...

- Do not talk, Pepe .... I've killed with one word .... Leave me alone .... God forgive you as I forgive
you .... I am like a rabbit hunter who wounds and runs to his dying
den .... .... I do not delve Let me die in peace.

This simile of rabbit made such an impression after being handed down,
which dropped sobbing in a chair.

At the same time he was seized with a strong fit of coughing, which
dropped mouth by a prodigious amount of rails, but the locomotive
had crossed the throat, try as he did, in any way he could throw.

Castro made him drink a cup of lime juice with orange blossoms.

When the foolish marquis was done, that ending was dressing himself.

Which came to the right street and severely dressed in ceremonial
dress day.

Lunched in Lhardy, gave a tour of The Wilds, and three in the afternoon, more or less, drove
to his aunt the marquise de Alcudia, located in San Mateo Street. This scathing lady was very
jealous of religion as we know. The same of their ancestry, not to say more. Castro was her
second cousin, and though his life had upset skull rather, he had
always treated with great affection seeking to attract the right track.

To the Marchioness, bells printed noble character as the sacrament
of order.

For more vile a man did, it was always a gentleman, as a priest always a priest. In this pious
lady thought Castro who followed him in his business.

His instinct (which was much more admirable than his intelligence) said that if the Marquise
to marry him take charge of the girl probably get Calderon. It was great prestige in her aristocratic
society: higher still among those who were added to it because of money, and Calderon.

Alcudia Palace was a bleak factory built at the beginning of last century. A floor under large
barred windows, one upstairs, and nothing more, but the house was in a perimeter huge and had a large
garden behind pretty sloppy. The site was flat and not very dignified: the rough-hewn stone staircase
and worn out. The late Marquis was thinking in a reform when it took the death. His widow left
the project, not so much Greed, for the horror that inspired all
sorts of reforms even if they were lime and singing.

Inside, the mansion was sumptuous, antique furniture and delicious. Tapestries valuable dressed
the walls, paintings of the best painters adorned some ancient parts, such as shipping and oratory.
This was a marvel of luxury.

Occupied a corner the floor, but its roof was the principal: therefore as high as the a church.
Had large stained-glass windows and the Gothic cathedrals: I was carpet as a ballroom, there
was a small platform with its organ, the altar was pretty, French style, and in the middle stood
a magnificent Ecce Homo de Morales.

It was, in short, a stay nice and elegant, heated by a large underground
oven.

In the family room the girls were alone with the work of his hands. The Marquise he was told
the office was busy writing letters. He went there after a moment to joke with premiums.

- Can you, Aunt?

- Adelante .... Ah! Is it you, Pepe? - Marquise said looking up and looking over the glasses
had been to write.

- If I'm interrupting. I wanted to celebrate with you a conference - said the gallant smile.

-
Sit for a moment. I am finishing a letter.

He provided a chair, and while Aunt Eugenia did crack the pen with your hand dry and nervous, began
to coordinate the exordium of the speech that he thought direct.

It gave the few minutes a great stroke strident should correspond
to its heading, and tearing strongly glasses, said:

- I'm yours,
Pepe.

This lowered his eyes to the ground on demand, no doubt, inspiration,
stroked his mustache, coughed slightly and then said with solemn emphasis:

-
Aunt, I do not know if God has touched me in the heart or is that
I'm tired of life I've been, but it is certain that a little while
now remember much of the advice has given me many times that I'm wanting
to formalize, to break these habits undignified that the lack of a
father and, above all, a mother and you have made me buy.

Friso and in the thirty and I think when I remember the name. I meet him, and also with my
quality of Christian .... Because in the midst of my excesses I have
not forgotten that never belong to a Catholic family in Spain and
now our class is responsible to ensure religion, by example as you
do .... The best means to promote this change I feel in my heart is
getting married ....

The gallant young man could not choose better
words to catechize Aunt Eugenia.

Tan impression he made, which came up from the couch to lay a hand on his shoulder exclaiming:

-
I'm so glad, Johnny! You do not know the pleasure you have given me! And you say you do not know if God
has touched you in my heart!

How could he be this sudden change in your being if God does not moviese? God has been, my
son, God has been, and a little too good blood you have in your veins .... You have chosen
a wife already?

The young man smiled making an affirmative sign.

- Who is it?

-
I thought Esperanza Calderon.

What do you think?

- Perfectly. She is very polite, very nice: I also want a daughter.

You see, has always been a close friend of my Peace .... Happy you had a choice ....

Castro smiled slyly and said:

- Look, man, I would rather marry a
woman from our class .... But you well know that I completely ruined
.... The young noblemen, unfortunately, are often not take on fortune.

Those that do, I do not want me I can not offer more that what they
have already, that is, a name.

So I've noticed a lacking him and have money.

- It is well thought. Although it is compromising a bit, we must save our names shame .... But Hope
is a good girl. He was raised among us. It will be a accomplished lady who will honor you.

The gallant young man did not leave that mischievous smile of irony. He was silent a moment and
said within:

- Do you know, aunt, what name we give each other at marriage in this way?

- How?

- Take manure.

The Marchesa smiled at the edge of the lips, but then getting serious,
he replied:

- No, here you can not say that, Pepe.

I repeat that this girl deserves a brilliant match.

Which is winning in this case are you .... "Are you dating now? Until
now I have no news ....

- I have not said anything yet .... I know
I'm not unsympathetic. We look with favor, but relationships, nothing.
Before you request them I wanted to consult with you, the more marked
I have today within the family in Madrid.

- Very well done. You have
acted with dignity. When it comes to marriage, that After a sacrament
of the Church, you have to keep restraint and formality. In the old
days better than these, not performed a wedding without hearing from
us soon The view of the elderly. I deeply appreciate the trust you
me, and certainly can have my approval.

- And with your help I can
count? Look I am afraid that some difficulties arise by his father
.... Metallic is a man .... Frankly, I would not suffer a snub ....

The
Marquise became thoughtful for a moment.

- Leave it to me. I will
do my best to fix it .... But you must promise me not take a step
without consulting me. Business diplomat is to be worn with caution
and skill.

- Promised aunt.

- Above all, with great care girl ....
Do not be alarmed me.

- I'll send you me.

A few moments after leaving
both the office and walked into the room, where he had some outsiders.
During Lent, the Marquise de Alcudia entertained his friends in the
evenings on Friday, dedicating them to prayer and religious practices.
Were there Ujo and Marquise and her daughter, always with mid-calf
skirts, General Patiño, Lola Madariaga and her husband with his mistress
Clementina Salabert Pascuala company and several other people, including
Father Ortega. As he actually belonged honors afternoon and was the
director of the party, all formed a group around him in the middle
of the room. But all spoke louder than him. The word was always illustrated
Piarist soft, muffled, as if never leave the room of a patient. When
he spoke, however, established the silence in the group, listened
with pleasure and veneration. The Marquise approaching, humbly kissed
her hand and asked with interest in the cold that made days suffered.

-
But are you a cold, father? "- Once asked many ladies.

- A little
nothing - replied the priest smiling sweetly.

- A little, no, enough.
Yesterday did not stop you from coughing in San Jose - said the marchioness.
 He was just beginning to speak to someone else, but I caught him and he looked
across the crowd and said 'New Orleans!' My heart sank at the tone, and he went on talking
to some other man. 'I told you that I would give you a lower berth, sir, I can give you one
now, I have just got a message that the person who had "lower two" will not want it.' 'Hold
on, then, I'll take that lower,' called the man who had spoken before, over the crowd, 'I spoke
for it first.' 'No you won't,' said the Captain, who went on writing. The man pushed his way
in angrily, a big, self-assertive fellow; he was evidently smarting from his first repulse.
'What's that? I did, I say. I was here before that man got here, and asked you for a lower
berth, and you said they were all taken.' The Captain stopped and looked at him. 'My dear sir,
I know you did; but this gentleman has a lady along.' But the fellow was angry. 'I don't care,'
he said, 'I engaged the berth and I know my rights; I mean to have that lower berth, or I'll
see which is bigger, you or Mr. Pullman.' Just then a lady, who had come out on the steps,
spoke to the Captain about her seat in the car. He turned to her: 'My dear madam, you are all
right, just go in there and take your seat anywhere; when I come in I will fix everything.
Go straight into that car and don't come out in this cold air any more.' The lady went back
and the old fellow said, 'Nick, go in there and seat that lady, if you have to turn every man
out of his seat.' Then, as the porter went in, he turned back to his irate friend. 

Must confess that all this flowering had a terrible against: dependence Don Andrés Rubio, dependency
that was impossible or at least very difficult to escape.

However useful that men are skilled, and very suitable for all, I can not deny that rarely
become absolutely necessary, notably when they are on top of a man of strong will and irresistible
power whom they serve and whose whim and markets are as posted. Don Andrés Rubio had, so to
speak, made to Don Paco, and so as he had done could be undone. There would be missing for this person
or persons to replace Don Paco, dividing their jobs, if one was not enough to fill them all
with same efficiency and skill.

Don Paco was fully aware of what was and what to expect and fear still don Andrew, so that much
gratitude as sighted prudence, he served with the highest zeal and loyalty and always tried to
please.

Don Paco, however, had misgivings about losing its elevated position
and enviable Privanza.

In addition to its rare credit, was holding on to very good knockers.

II

Widower for over twenty years, had a daughter of twenty, who had been the real girl all over
the place, and was then the most elegant lady, and prettier than empingorotada it had, culminating
and glowing by age, by her beauty and her aristocratic position,
as the sun in the meridian. It had been ten years since she had succeeded
in capturing the will of the people most illustrious knight, Don Alvaro
Roldan of primogeniture, with whom who had married and had a whopping
seven robust and flowering stems between sons and daughters. The next day was Christmas, and every passenger on the train, except the sick lady and
her husband, and the Captain, had an engagement for Christmas dinner somewhere a thousand miles
away. There had been an accident on the road. The train which was coming north had jumped the
track at a trestle and torn a part of it away. Two or three of the trainmen had been hurt.
There was no chance of getting by for several hours more. It was a blue party that assembled
in the dressing-room, and more than one cursed his luck. One man was talking of suing the company.
I was feeling pretty gloomy myself, when the Captain came in. 'Well, gentlemen, 'Christmas-gift';
it's a fine morning, you must go out and taste it,' he said, in a cheery voice, which made
me feel fresher and better at once, and which brought a response from every man in the dressing-room.
Someone asked promptly how long we should be there. 'I can't tell you, sir, but some little
time; several hours.' There was a groan. 'You'll have time to go over the battle-field,' said
the Captain, still cheerily. 'We are close to the field of one of the bitterest battles of
the war.' And then he proceeded to tell us about it briefly. He said, in answer to a question,
that he had been in it. 'On which side, Captain?' asked someone. 'Sir!' with some surprise
in his voice. 'On which side?' 'On our side, sir, of course.' We decided to go over the field,
and after breakfast we did.

"The Captain walked with us over the ground and showed us the lines of attack and defence;
pointed out where the heaviest fighting was done, and gave a graphic account of the whole campaign.
It was the only battle-field I had ever been over, and I was so much interested that when I
got home I read up the campaign, and that set me to reading up on the whole subject of the
war. We walked back over the hills, and I never enjoyed a walk more. I felt as if I had got
new strength from the cold air. The old fellow stopped at a little house on our way back, and
went in whilst we waited. When he came out he had a little bouquet of geranium leaves and lemon
verbena which he had got. I had noticed them in the window as we went by, and when I saw the
way the sick lady looked when he gave them to her, I wished I had brought them instead of him.
Some one intent on knowledge asked him how much he paid for them?

"He said, 'Paid for them! Nothing.'

"'Did you know them before?' he asked.

"'No, sir.' That was all.

"A little while afterwards I saw him asleep in a seat, but when the train started he got up.

"The old Captain by this time owned the car. He was not only an official, he was a host, and
he did the honors as if he were in his own house and we were his guests; all was done so quietly
and unobtrusively, too; he pulled up a blind here, and drew one down there, just a few inches,
'to give you a little more light on your book, sir';--'to shut out a little of the glare, madam--reading
on the cars is a little more trying to the eyes than one is apt to fancy.' He stopped to lean
over and tell you that if you looked out of your window you would see what he thought one of
the prettiest views in the world; or to mention the fact that on the right was one of the most
celebrated old places in the State, a plantation which had once belonged to Colonel So-and-So,
'one of the most remarkable men of his day, sir.'

"His porter, Nicholas, was his admirable second; not a porter at all, but a body-servant; as
different from the ordinary Pullman-car porter as light from darkness. In fact, it turned out
that he had been an old servant of the Captain's. I happened to speak of him to the Captain,
and he said: 'Yes, sir, he's a very good boy; I raised him, or rather, my father did; he comes
of a good stock; plenty of sense and know their places. When I came on the road they gave me
a mulatto fellow whom I couldn't stand, one of these young, new, "free-issue" some call them,
sir, I believe; I couldn't stand him, I got rid of him.' I asked him what was the trouble.
'Oh! no trouble at all, sir; he just didn't know his place, and I taught him. He could read
and write a little--a negro is very apt to think, sir, that if he can write he is educated--he
could write, and thought he was educated; he chewed a toothpick and thought he was a gentleman.
I soon taught him better. He was impertinent, and I put him off the train. After that I told
them that I must have my own servant if I was to remain with them, and I got Nick. He is an
excellent boy (he was about fifty-five). The black is a capital servant, sir, when he has sense,
far better than the mulatto.'

"I became very intimate with the old fellow. You could not help it. He had a way about him
that drew you out. I told him I was going to New Orleans to pay a visit to friends there. He
said, 'Got a sweetheart there?' I was rather taken aback; but I told him, 'Yes.' He said he
knew it as soon as I spoke to him on the platform. He asked me who she was, and I told him
her name. He said to me, 'Ah! you lucky dog.' I told him I did not know that I was not most
unlucky, for I had no reason to think she was going to marry me. He said, 'You tell her I say
you'll be all right.' I felt better, especially when the old chap said, 'I'll tell her so myself.'
He knew her. She always travelled with him when she came North, he said.

"I did not know at all that I was all right; in fact, I was rather low down just then about
my chances, which was the only reason I was so anxious to go to New Orleans, and I wanted just
that encouragement and it helped me mightily. I began to think Christmas on the cars wasn't
quite so bad after all. He drew me on, and before I knew it I had told him all about myself.
It was the queerest thing; I had no idea in the world of talking about my matters. I had hardly
ever spoken of her to a soul; but the old chap had a way of making you feel that he would be
certain to understand you, and could help you. He told me about his own case, and it wasn't
so different from mine. He lived in Virginia before the war; came from up near Lynchburg somewhere;
belonged to an old family there, and had been in love with his sweetheart for years, but could
never make any impression on her. She was a beautiful girl, he said, and the greatest belle
in the country round. Her father was one of the big lawyers there, and had a fine old place,
and the stable was always full of horses of the young fellows who used to be coming to see
her, and 'she used to make me sick, I tell you,' he said, 'I used to hate 'em all; I wasn't
afraid of 'em; but I used to hate a man to look at her; it seemed so impudent in him; and I'd
have been jealous if she had looked at the sun. Well, I didn't know what to do. I'd have been
ready to fight 'em all for her, if that would have done any good, but it wouldn't; I didn't
have any right to get mad with 'em for loving her, and if I had got into a row she'd have sent
me off in a jiffy. But just then the war came on, and it was a Godsend to me. I went in first
thing. I made up my mind to go in and fight like five thousand furies, and I thought maybe
that would win her, and it did; it worked first-rate. I went in as a private, and I got a bullet
through me in about six months, through my right lung, that laid me off for a year or so; then
I went back and the boys made me a lieutenant, and when the captain was made a major, I was
made captain. I was offered something higher once or twice, but I thought I'd rather stay with
my company; I knew the boys, and they knew me, and we had got sort of used to each other--to
depending on each other, as it were. The war fixed me all right, though. When I went home that
first time my wife had come right around, and as soon as I was well enough we were married.
I always said if I could find that Yankee that shot me I'd like to make him a present. I found
out that the great trouble with me had been that I had not been bold enough; I used to let
her go her own way too much, and seemed to be afraid of her. I WAS afraid of her, too. I bet
that's your trouble, sir: are you afraid of her?' I told him I thought I was. 'Well, sir,'
he said, 'it will never do; you mustn't let her think that--never. You cannot help being afraid
of her, for every man is that; but it is fatal to let her know it. Stand up, sir, stand up
for your rights. If you are bound to get down on your knees--and every man feels that he is--don't
do it; get up and run out and roll in the dust outside somewhere where she can't see you. Why,
sir,' he said, 'it doesn't do to even let her think she's having her own way; half the time
she's only testing you, and she doesn't really want what she pretends to want. Of course, I'm
speaking of before marriage; after marriage she always wants it, and she's going to have it,
anyway, and the sooner you find that out and give in, the better. You must consider this, however,
that her way after marriage is always laid down to her with reference to your good. She thinks
about you a great deal more than you do about her, and she's always working out something that
is for your advantage; she'll let you do some things as you wish, just to make you believe
you are having your own way, but she's just been pretending to think otherwise, to make you
feel good.'

"This sounded so much like sense that I asked him how much a man ought to stand from a woman.
'Stand, sir?' he said; 'why, everything, everything that does not take away his self-respect.'
I said I believed if he'd let a woman do it she'd wipe her shoes on him. 'Why, of course she
will,' he said, 'and why shouldn't she? A man is not good enough for a good woman to wipe her
shoes on. But if she's the right sort of a woman she won't do it in company, and she won't
let others do it at all; she'll keep you for her own wiping.'"

"There's a lot of sense in that, Lesponts," said one of his auditors, at which there was a
universal smile of assent. Lesponts said he had found it out, and proceeded.

"Well, we got to a little town in Virginia, I forget the name of it, where we had to stop a
short time. The Captain had told me that his home was not far from there, and his old company
was raised around there. Quite a number of the old fellows lived about there yet, he said,
and he saw some of them nearly every time he passed through, as they 'kept the run of him.'
He did not know that he'd 'find any of them out to-day, as it was Christmas, and they would
all be at home,' he said. As the train drew up I went out on the platform, however, and there
was quite a crowd assembled. I was surprised to find it so quiet, for at other places through
which we had passed they had been having high jinks: firing off crackers and making things
lively. Here the crowd seemed to be quiet and solemn, and I heard the Captain's name. The gulf between them was growing deeper. Therefore, the
angry vengeance this time grabbed by the hair.

Clementina looked at him a moment. Then, shrugging his lips and making a slight sneer, turned
around and started to leave the room.

Osorio took a few steps standing between her and the door.

- Before you go I want you to know that the cashier has orders not
to pay any receipt that is not be endorsed by me.

- Aware.

- For
your expenses have a fixed amount, which will determine what must be.

I do not want more surprises in the box.

Clementina, who was to walk out the door of the antechamber, drew back from doing so by the
her boudoir. Before he disappeared, having lifted the portiere with one hand and facing with
her husband, told with concentrated wrath

- The end result a pig as your brother, just check it like you do
not generous.

He dropped the portiere and gave a big bang.

Osorio made a motion to throw behind it, but instantly recovering cried more than he said to hear
it well:

- Of course!

I'm a pig because they want to keep hungry gentlemen.

That kept The use of old!

After uttering this ferocity was apparently satisfied, because his lips were drawn a triumphant
smile and sarcasm.

Five minutes later both spouses were in the room laughing and joking
with the three four guests they had.

IV

# How virtue encouraged the Duke of Requena. #

Let's see, see, explains why.

- Sir Duke, business is clear. Today I talked to Regnault. The mine can produce, changing ovens,
built some roads and establishing machinery to purpose, a more than half currently pays. Can
produce sixty thousand flasks of quicksilver. The money needed to achieve this does not happen a
hundred to one hundred fifty thousand dollars.

- I think a lot.

- A lot, for a result like that?

- No, I think many bottles.

- Well, I do not doubt that is true what he says Regnault. It's a smart engineer and practical.
Six years has been exploiting those of California. In addition, the English engineer has gone
with him says the same thing.

Those who spoke were the Duke and Requena and his secretary, chief clerk or whatever called,
since the house was designated nickname for him. Llamábasele simply Llera. He was a fellow Spaniard,
tall, skinny, pale, angular face, arms and legs very long, large hands and feet, sudden gestures
and lanky with big eyes looking at ex- where bright and sincere will and intelligence. He
was a tireless worker, amazing. It was not known what time he ate
or slept.

When I arrived at eight o'clock to the desktop, brought and made the task of any man in all day.
At twelve o'clock he was still I could see many times with the pen in his hand in his office.
With the special talent to know men, who have all to be happy succeed in the world, Salabert
penetrated shortly after having him for lowest clerk, character and intelligence Llera. Y without
giving serious consideration in appearance, because this is not ever entered into his conduct
is actually gave it accumulated on the work of more importance. In short time he be the henchman
of the famous speculator, the soul of the house. His industriousness humiliated all other
employees and she served Salabert workloads in hours exceptional. Llera, at the same time, it was
his secretary, his general foreman, the first his official office, the inspector of works was under
construction and almost Agent all its businesses. By carrying out this work inconceivable, beyond
the strength of four men fairly laborious, gave him six thousand pesetas a year. The clerk was
felt well paid, we felt happy thinking that just six years ago, won a thousand hundred. Every
day, before his morning walk and take their business visits, Duke gave a tour of the office
Llera, learned of the issues and talking with it a long or short according to circumstances.

The Duke had the highest offices of his palace Luchana ride, superb building up in the middle of
a garden, so large, deserved the name of the park. In the summer,
trees, lush foliage, leaving only see the white crests of the roof.

In the winter, many conifers and leafy shrubs that grew there permanently, still gave very pleasing
appearance. It was the gathering of all the birds of the district's Hospice. Had access to a
large marble staircase. In addition the ground floor where they were the receiving rooms and the
dining room had two. Part of the latter was what occupied the offices,
which were not very significant.

A Salabert was sufficient for the conduct of their business with
a dozen skilled employees.

The luxury displayed in the house was amazing: the furniture worth more than a few million.
Clashed with greed, everyone attributed to its owner.

This and other similar contradictions will be resolved as we go penetrating in character, one
of the most curious and most worthy of setting the reader's attention. The kitchens were in basements,
which were spacious and well arranged. The dining room, which occupied the rear the ground floor,
was to add an exceptionally large greenhouse where they grew large number of shrubs and exotic
flowers and where the water was flowing profusely estanquecillos and very pleasing to see waterfalls,
all imitating, if possible, to nature. The blocks were in separate building at the end of the
garden, as well as some servants' room, not everyone.

The Duke, lounging on the only chair that was in the office Llera, while it kept standing in
front of him spinning in the hand of a big scissors cut paper, walked
three or four times from one angle to another of her mouth and wet
black cigar unanswered the last words of his secretary.

At last he grunted more than he said

- Hum!

The minister is becoming more stubborn.

- Who cares!

Do not you know the secret of giving him?

... Liverpool telegraph you and fifteen days before the bottle of quicksilver down from sixty
to forty dollars.

The Duke of Requena had formed on the initiative and advice Llera, for four years, quicksilver
company or union in order to capture all the mercury they release
it on the market.

As a result, this product had risen dramatically. The company was
to a huge deposit in Liverpool.

Llera plan was released in a given time producing a huge low frightened the government. This, held
at the same time payment of the loan of one hundred million pesetas that the Government had
made ten years ago to a foreign company, would push him think about selling mine rivers. If on the
other hand helped the company will sacrifice a few million, subsidizing newspapers and characters
could be assured success. This plan, consisting of Llera and matured by the Duke, came unfolding
regularly and was coming to an end.

- There shall see - said the wealthy banker and was some thoughtful moments -. When go to auction
- said after - it will be necessary to form another company. Of quicksilver we do not served
for the case.

- Of course it will be!

- The fact is that I do not want to compromise in this business more than eight million pesetas.

-
That's another thing - getting serious Llera said -. Grab a business that entity with so little money
it seems impossible.

Management will go into other hands and then is reduced to a percentage higher or lower ....
Ie, nothing!

- True, true - again remaining Salabert mumbled in deep thought. Llera also remained silent and
thoughtful.

- I have already indicated to you the only way is to get the address ....

This medium was to take a fair amount of shares flood the mine to be purchased by society to keep
buying all that could be and then start selling them cheap, until you get to produce panic among
shareholders. Buying and selling lost during some time this was the means proposed for achieving
low Llera actions and to acquire a lot less money in half and take more of a business altogether.
Salabert not see it as clear as his secretary. It was his keen intelligence, thorough, penetrating,
but lacked grandeur and initiative in business, but another thing thought those who saw him
undertake enterprises of exceptional importance. The primary thought, the we might call the mother
of a business idea, almost never born in his brain, he came from outside. But it germinated
and developed perhaps as nowhere else in Spain. Little little was analyzing, dissecting better, penetrated
to every fiber, watching him in its many aspects, and once convinced it would bring benefits, was
thrown on rare and surprising him with boldness. This was what about his skills had speculator
occurrence of the deception of the public. I was quite convinced that once resolved to undertake
the company was damaging any hesitation. Such boldness was not appropriate, therefore, directly
of his temperament, but of reflection. It was a sign of his cunning incomparable.

Moreover, his background was shy. This defect, instead of happiness almost corrected never interrupted
their successes, increased every day. Greed is fearful and suspicious. Salabert was becoming greedy.
In addition, over the years, the pessimism in the spirit penetrates
man.

Used to great results in their speculations, our banker judged Business deplorable that not receiving
huge profits. If by chance did not get any or had mild loss, thought the case worthy of long lamented.
So no contest Llera, without his daring character and imagination fertile in invention, the Duke
of Requena time and would not venture into a business of medium importance. Instead, what
lost inventive and daring Tell them replaced by a truly tact and skill breathtaking, a knowledge
of men, only age and constant attention can accomplish. In this sense we can say that he Llera
and wonderfully completed. This wisdom and this knowledge of human nature came in to sin of excessive
Salabert, ie spent Ready at times. In his dealings with men, watching them always on the side
of interest materials, had come to form their idea so sad that it
was monstrous and exposed to serious mishaps.

Perhaps he saw in others was not only a reflection of their own image as it happens to all
humans. For him there was no man or woman incorruptible. A little bit more expensive or cheaper
consciences, all were sold. In recent Bribery years it became a hobby. If faced with people who
are not let buy never imagined that they did in good faith, but because they felt a greater price
than offered. It was one of the heaviest tasks Llera tore his projects bribery when accruing
to men who no doubt had to reject with indignation.

If he had a lawsuit, the first thing I thought was going to cost much money the judges who had
failure. If you were interested in a gubernatorial record, separated in mind the amount to be
directed to the Minister or the directors or secretary of state. Unfortunately This black pencil
that had always on hand to smudge the face of humanity, was used with positive results on many
occasions.

The Duke of Requena and moral sense and never had known. His life of anonymous rogue in Valencia,
was marked by a series of silly pranks and tricks for fertility so great to get the neighbor trace
their money, they did worthy rival of Lazarillo de Tormes, Guzmán de Alfarache The Rogue and other
famous heroes of the Spanish novel. For true that before going forward should say that a group
of partners had Ateneo Salabert to the nickname of The Rogue Guzman who knew him. But this nickname
did not come out circle of friends. Best success was a phrase the president of the Council
of Ministers explaining Duke initials. He said that at this early AS was brought to an exclamation
point to read: A That!

We had with a veneer of plausibility that in Cuba, where he had gone to seek his fortune, bought
a tavern on the outskirts of Havana, with all its furniture, including in it a black aimed at
your service. This black, during the years that had that trade, was her maid, his housekeeper, his
clerk and his concubine. It had several children. When he had saved some thousands of dollars
to be returned to Spain, settled their accounts by selling the tavern furniture, black ....
And children!

Then began the teams for the troops, the tobacco business, the sale of roads cediéndolas sometimes with
premiums, other building without the conditions imposed by the contract, the Government loans, etc.,
etc. Deployed in all our dealer his rare wisdom, talent and a positive "organ of acquisitiveness"
so powerful that made him famous because of the characters from the bench.

Their treatment was not unpleasant. Contrary to almost all who aspire to wealth or power nor was fine manners
and sweet in words. It was rather rude than polite, but People knew admirably distinguish and
softened as needed.

The same coarseness native ministered unto him to disguise how clever and subtle thought. It seemed that
this exterior rough, rustic, those overly free and hearty manner could not fail to save frank
and loyal heart.

It was (outside only) type finish old Castilian, honradote, sincere and impertinent. He spoke little
or much as it suited him, he expressed himself with difficulty real or fake (this was never
ascertained), was occasionally humorous outputs, but always played rudeness, and would say
on the face some unpleasant things made him formidable in the classroom. The preponderance acquired
their wealth had been increase last defect. For most people, even the ladies, used to talk
with a frankness bordering on cynicism and shamelessness; signs of contempt that actually
inspired him. However, when faced with a political character which it suited him be supportive,
took another twist this openness very differently and flattery was
transformed into and almost almost servile.

But this farce, but performed admirably, did not fool anyone. The Duke of Requena was taken
by a fox brand. For any longer believed in miracles his words or was left captivated by that tough-looking,
good-natured. Those who spoke were always on guard, though feigning confidence and joy. As all
who have achieved rise, the defects that are universally recognized him, rather, the bad reputation
it had, was not an obstacle to be respected, for everyone you speak with the hat on hand and
smile, but never had to need it. Many men sometimes humiliating for the mere pleasure of humbling.
Salabert knew this innate tendency that has the man's spine to bend and abused her. Many who
lived independently, not only tolerated him guff that they would have seemed intolerable to
a friend children, but craved and sought his treatment.

- We will see, see - repeated again when reminded Llera seize the means of management -. You
are so fantastic, your head is too hot. No good for business.

A if we see what happens here with corn exchanges.

On the advice of Llera, the trader had built corn exchanges in some cities of Spain, which had not
been as successful as expected. And after all the business was not large entity, the losses were
not substantial. Despite this, the Duke, that he cried as if they were scarce and there was his secretary
rude and insulting phrases, reminded every moment matter. Servial weapon to belittle their
plans, although then use them and they Shall nicely a significant increase in their wealth. Thus
Teníale of submissive, ignorant of their worth and work quickly to any annoying it was.

A little embarrassed by the memory, Llera state insisted that the business was now infallible
success if you are driving down the road he pointed. Salabert abruptly cut discussion going
on to other issues. Informóse quickly from the day. The loss of a bond was made by a relative of
Valencia, he was beside himself, snorted and stamped as a bull when he nailed the flags, animal
called a hundred times and had the effrontery say, in the presence of Llera, conclude that
his kind heart to ruin. The loss in total, representing about twenty thousand. The bonds that
the Duke did for his most close friends or relatives were the following lines: The paper was
generally, required the secured six percent of the amount deposited, and did well to cut and
collect coupons.

So that the capital, instead of what profitable to all holders of securities, gave him a six percent
increase. So were the Duke business did not so much by interest as
by irresistible impulse to his heart.

Stormed out of the office of
his secretary, went to the box and there they would learn send to
charge the new bank current account thousand dollars, he picked up
the heel after sign. Should drop by to hold a board as a director,
and no job step it cost him cash. Out on foot as usual in the morning.
In the beautiful conifers that lined the roads of garden-park birds
sang merrily. It is understood that had failed and the bond being
lost. The Duke damn who wins had to sing or even hear their joyful
cries. Passed over, his face grim, without responding to the greetings
of the gardeners and the goalkeeper, with more ferocity biting never
his big cigar. On the street soon his face colored slightly. Had a
pleasant and useful meeting. The chairman of the State Council, who
also liked early, greeted him at the Paseo de Recoletos. They spoke
a few moments and took the opportunity to recommend, with calculated
abruptness that characterized him, a record of some wetlands that
was interested. Then slowly, looking with their eyes bulging, innocent,
passers, particularly in stopping them returning home fresh home with
the shopping cart full and cheeks are red from the effort, led the
Bank of Spain. Were many people who took off his hat. Occasionally
paused a moment, giving a handshake, and changing the familiar encountered
four words in familiar and relaxed tone, went on his way.

It was
still early. Before arriving at the Bank came up to the house of his
friend and compariente Calderón. She
gave him when he went away the little Testament she had gotten as a prize, and which was one
of her most cherished possessions. Other boys found the first honor as climber, runner, rock-flinger,
wrestler, swimmer, and fighter open once more to them, and were free from the silent and somewhat
contemptuous gaze of him who, however they looked down on him, was a sort of silent power among
them. Vashti alone felt a void and found by its sudden absence how great a force was the steady
backing of one who could always be counted on to take one's side without question. She had
to bear the gibes of the school as "Miss Darby", and though her two brothers were ready enough
to fight for her if boys pushed her too hardly, they could do nothing against girls, and the
girls were her worst tormentors.

The name was fastened on her, and it clung to her until, as time went on, she came to almost
hate the poor innocent cause of it.

Meantime Darby, beginning to fill out and take on the shoulders and form of a man, began to
fill also the place of the man in his little home. This among other things meant opposition,
if not hostility, to everything on Cove Mills's side. When old Darby died the Millses all went
to the funeral, of course; but that did not prevent their having the same feeling toward Little
Darby afterward, and the breach continued.

At first he used to go over occasionally to see Vashti and carry her little presents, as he
had done at school; but he soon found that it was not the same thing. He was always received
coolly, and shortly he was given to understand that he was not wanted there, and in time Vashti
herself showed that she was not the same she had been to him before. Thus the young fellow
was thrown back on himself, and the hostility between the two cabins was as great as ever.

He spent much of his time in the woods, for the Stanley place was small at best, only a score
or so of acres, and mostly covered with pines, and Little Darby was but a poor hand at working
with a hoe--their only farm implement. He was, however, an unerring shot, with an eye like
a hawk to find a squirrel flat on top of the grayest limb of the tallest hickory in the woods,
or a hare in her bed among the brownest broomsedge in the county, and he knew the habits of
fish and bird and animal as if he had created them; and though he could not or would not handle
a hoe, he was the best hand at an axe "in the stump", in the district, and Mrs. Stanley was
kept in game if not in meal.

The Millses dilated on his worthlessness, and Vashti, grown to be a slender slip of a girl
with very bright eyes and a little nose, was loudest against him in public; though rumor said
she had fallen afoul of her youngest brother and boxed his jaws for seconding something she
had said of him.

The Mills's enmity was well understood, and there were not wanting those to take Darby's side.
He had grown to be the likeliest young man in the district, tall, and straight as a sapling,
and though Vashti flaunted her hate of him and turned up her little nose more than it was already
turned up at his name, there were many other girls in the pines who looked at him languishingly
from under their long sun-bonnets, and thought he was worth both the Mills boys and Vashti
to boot. So when at a fish-fry the two Mills boys attacked him and he whipped them both together,
some said it served them right, while others declared they did just what they ought to have
done, and intimated that Darby was less anxious to meet their father than he was them, who
were nothing more than boys to him. These asked in proof of their view, why he had declined
to fight when Old Cove had abused him so to his face. This was met by the fact that he "could
not have been so mighty afeared," for he had jumped in and saved Chris Mills's life ten minutes
afterward, when he got beyond his depth in the pond and had already sunk twice. But, then,
to be sure, it had to be admitted that he was the best swimmer on the ground, and that any
man there would have gone in to save his worst enemy if he had been drowning. This must have
been the view that Vashti Mills took of the case; for one day not long afterward, having met
Darby at the cross-roads store where she was looking at some pink calico, and where he had
come to get some duck-shot and waterproof caps, she turned on him publicly, and with flashing
eyes and mantling cheeks, gave him to understand that if she were a man he "would not have
had to fight two boys," and he would not have come off so well either. If anything, this attack
brought Darby friends, for he not only had whipped the Mills boys fairly, and had fought only
when they had pressed him, but had, as has been said, declined to fight old man Mills under
gross provocation; and besides, though they were younger than he, the Mills boys were seventeen
and eighteen, and "not such babies either; if they insisted on fighting they had to take what
they got and not send their sister to talk and abuse a man about it afterward." And the weight
of opinion was that, "that Vashti Mills was gettin' too airified and set up anyways."

All this reached Mrs. Stanley, and was no doubt sweet to her ears. She related it in her drawling
voice to Darby as he sat in the door one evening, but it did not seem to have much effect on
him; he never stirred or showed by word or sign that he even heard her, and finally, without
speaking, he rose and lounged away into the woods. The old woman gazed after him silently until
he disappeared, and then gave a look across to where the Mills cabin peeped from among the
pines, which was full of hate.

*****

The fish-fry at which Darby Stanley had first fought the Mills boys and then pulled one of
them out of the river, had been given by one of the county candidates for election as delegate
to a convention which was to be held at the capital, and possibly the division of sentiment
in the district between the Millses and Little Darby was as much due to political as to personal
feeling; for the sides were growing more and more tightly drawn, and the Millses, as usual,
were on one side and Little Darby on the other; and both sides had strong adherents. The question
was on one side, Secession, with probable war; and on the other, the Union as it was. The Millses
were for the candidate who advocated the latter, and Little Darby was for him who wanted secession. Salabert thought with disgust of the inheritance that reversed
her daughter. Made new efforts to overturn his wife's will, but to no avail. For the first time
in her life Ms Carmen showed signs of great strength of character. Although unable for revenge
was such a hard time in her desire to end the existence of an act of justice. A life of complete
submission, without offering the slightest obstacle to the will of her husband, their economic
plans or his illicit passions, well deserved when death claim their freedom to satisfy the
impulses of the heart. Osorio watched quietly, hidden anxiety, the progress of the disease, the
outcome drag Once I get to the end of their troubles. Ms Carmen would shed his fleshly envelope and
that of their creditors. The same Clementina, favorite object of the angelic tenderness lady,
could not enjoy the prospect of so many millions and would fall into their hands. Tried to suppress
their desires, impatience off, but despite a devil tempting him made his heart jump for joy every
time the thought came to her brain.

Infernal cunning, Salabert was possible to introduce distrust in the mind of his wife. Sometimes
a sly way, sometimes cynical and brutal, poured into his soul the poison of suspicion. Clementina
Osorio and water waiting for their death as May. What comforts would be where should pay all
their traps! And to another: to live, to enjoy the money the unhappy lady! This remained silent,
outraged at the evil insinuations of her husband. But in his soul sad and weakened by the disease,
the tip of that steely arrow writhed causing sharp pains that sought to hide. Whenever Clementina
came to visit, and ultimately made him twice a day, her stepmother's eyes were fixed upon her with dumb
question, trying to read on their own the ideas that passed through the brain. This eager
attention embarrassed Osorio's wife, made him feel a disturbance that though slight, sometimes
leaving no visible.

As the disease progressed, the effort of Ms Carmen was rising to become mania. Clementina represented
in the moral solitude in which he lived the only bond of love bound her to the ground. For the
same reason that his stepdaughter had always been cold and haughty with all least she had never
doubted the sincerity of his affection. I was satisfied with it and proud. It was enough to
compensate the contemptuous indifference he observed in all who approached her. The horrible
suspicion that he had forcibly entered his heart filled him with bitterness. A kind and loving spirit
like his needed to believe in kindness and love. To tear this latter belief was bleeding in
pain.

One evening they were together and alone. The Duchess, still in his chair, his head thrown back,
listened to her read a story devoted stepdaughter, the appearance of the Virgin La Salette.
His thought was not in the case: teníalo hectic, as always, that fatal doubt embittered even more
than his poor body condition days. Staring and divining of approaching the grave, crossed the
beautiful front inclined Clementina about the book and confusingly spelled in there without
being able to acquire the certainty that craved. More than once, lifting it's head, was found
with this look dull and disconsolate, he promptly dropped his own, a sudden rush of discomfort.
In the soul of the sick was born a desire, a whim rather vivid and searing as those feel the
dying. He wanted his stepdaughter it cool with a sweet word horrible Burn your question caused him.
Several times his lips trembled to ask the question. Invincible shame stopped.

- Leave the book, my daughter: you're tired - said at last. And his voice from trembling throat acted
as a severe sentence.

- What will you be heard. I do not, thank God, I have healthy throat.

- God will preserve it, my child, God will preserve it - said the
lady with an accent of tenderness staring.

There was a moment of silence.

- Do you know what I have said? - Dared to utter later.

And his voice came out so dull that the last syllable barely heard.

Clementina, who was preparing to go on reading, looked up.

The few drops of blood Dona Carmen had already climbed his ruined
body was hit in the face and stained slightly red.

- I heard ...
I was hoping my death.

In turn, the rich blood of Clementina went hastily to her cheeks and
lighted in vivid colors.

Both looked confused for a moment.

The girl exclaimed with energy at the end wrinkling his forehead:

- I know who has told you.

And his blood, to utter these words, he fled the face again as an
ebb tide instantaneous.

That of his stepmother also focused on his injured heart.

He bent his white and weary head, saying:

- If you know, do not pronounce his name.

- Why not? - Stepdaughter cried angrily -.

When a parent, for no reason, only for a few miserable pennies injury torments his daughter
and his wife, has no right to or whatever you want to be respected .... I'll tell you all the
lyrics .... That is outrageous! ... Dad is a man who has no love
God no more money.

I knew that the will you had alienated me your love ... (If I ever had it ....)

- Oh!

- Yes, I know very well.

But I never thought that would commit such a vile, slandering that
way .... You will know that I have always wanted more than him ...
Yes, yes, more than him!

I have no hesitation in saying .... I will say more: I have not really loved anyone else that you and
my children .... If that will is the reason why you doubt my love,
you break it .... Break it, yes, your peace and love I care much more
than your money ....

The lady's voice quivered with indignation as
he uttered these words.

His eyes were fixed in hard vacuum, as if they wanted to see it up in front of his father figure
to pulverize. At that time he spoke with sincerity.

Opaque eyes of Ms Carmen, as he spoke, were glowing with joy. At last clouded with tears, and exclaimed:

-
I believe you, my dear, I believe you! ... Ah, you do not know well I do!

At the same time seized his hands and kissed her warmly.

Clementina gave a cry of shame.

- Oh, no, no, Mom ... I am who I ....

And she threw her arms around his neck tenderly. Long time were hugging, crying silently. It
was one of the few times I cried Clementina emotion and not spite.

But within days, but survived both live in the memory of this tender scene, was also the reason
of that had occurred. Clementina felt ashamed to appear in front of his stepmother. His attention,
his words of affection were sometimes exaggerated: he wanted erased with them thinking that clearly
read in the eyes of the former. Other times, imagining that could serve to doubt their sincerity,
they stop and take a hit indifferent and cold. Anyway there was between those two current concerns
made them suffer, by different ways, the times when they were together.

Ms Carmen finally fell into bed, never to rise.

Clementina went there all day. The terrible time approached. At last one morning, between two and
three, called with alarm Osorio's hotel two servants of the duke.

The lady was dying. His daughter asked insistently. This hastily got up from bed, and all the escape
of their horses flew to the palace Requena. Osorio was with her.

Upon entering the room with the patient encountered Duke, who will face looked sullen.

- You arrive on time! You arrive on time! - Growled softly. And he
walked away without another word.

Clementina thought he noticed in these words malicious intent and
bit his lip in anger.

The sad scene offered his view, just approached the bed of Ms Carmen managed to briefly shut
down their hatred.

The unfortunate lady was showing on his face signs death, deathly pallor, the taper of the nose,
eyes glazed over and around of them a dark circle, purple.

At his side and stood the priest who urged to repent. (What?) At the foot of the bed, Marcela,
her former maid, cried hiding the face with his handkerchief. Two other servants watched from
far away with frightened faces, rather than sore, that pitiful picture.

There in a corner the doctor wrote a prescription.

On seeing his daughter, the duchess turned her eyes toward her and extended expression of anxiety
a hand to call.

Come, my dear - "His voice was quite clear. And after taking his hand went between both of his yellow,
emaciated, terrible exclaimed looking at her steadily in the eye

-
I die, my dear, I'm dying!

Is not it true that you feel it? ... Why at least not you glad?

- Oh, Mama!

- Say that you are happy - eagerly insisted without removing his gaze from the eyes of the young.

-
Mom, for God's sake - he said it stunned and terrified at the same time.

- Say that you're happy! - Repeated with even more power lifting at the expense of great efforts
head, staring hard.

- No, mother of the soul, no! If I could preserve his life at the expense of mine, I swear to you
that I would.

The large opaque eyes of the dying softened.

He put her head on pillow, and after a short silence and a muffled voice said hesitantly

- It would be ungrateful ... yes, very ungrateful .... Your poor mom
loved you so much!

... Give me a kiss .... Do not cry .... I feel let the world .... What hurt me is that you, my daughter
heart ... you .... What a horrible thought! I have suffered much!

The priest brought at the time asking her to leave the worldly thoughts.

The sick listened humbly, devoutly repeated the prayers that she read aloud. The doctor and the
Duke came to put a shock, but noting that began rattle, the doctor made a gesture and grabbed his arm to
duke it out outside the stay.

Ms Carmen cast a haggard eyes, glassy, ​​and all of them and stopping them in Clementina beckoned
again one approaching.

- Farewell, child - said without looking at her, his eyes fixed on the ceiling -. You do well
to rejoice of my death ....

- You say, Mom! - Said that with a cry of horror.

- It's good .... I am glad that my death serve you something .... If I could give you in life
that I belong ... have given you everything .... It's sad right? ... Have to die to make you
happy .... I would have enjoyed seeing you both happy! ... Farewell, my dear, goodbye ... ever
remember your poor mom ....

- Mother of my soul - shouted the lady fell down and bursting into tears -. I do not want I die,
no! ... I've been very bad ... but I've always wanted ... and I respected
....

- Do not be silly - said the dying woman in an effort to smile
and stroked her head with skeleton hand -.

It does not hurt to gloat .... Who cares? ... Die happy knowing that you will owe me some happiness
.... I recommend the old ladies of asylum .... Protect them, my daughter
... Marcela is already good, too .... Bye bye all .... Forgive me
the evil I have done ....

Rattle grew, sounded more strident and
more grim by the minute.

Clementina's sobs and cut at intervals Marcela notes that snoring fatal. Duke, trembling, altered,
drag it left the end of the room.

Ms Carmen did not speak again. His eyes closed, mouth slightly open, the body alone. From time
to time up a little eyelids and looked affectionately at his stepdaughter
kneeling.

The priest read a nasal voice, plaintive, the prayers of his book.

Thus died the Duchesse de Requena. Leave her, let her go!

Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed
unquenchable hatred, held long and frequent conferences.

The great question of inheritance temporarily united. Clementina
morning and afternoon visiting his father.

Osorio also often went to the palace Requena. Either the old thousand attentions lavished, pitied
her solitude, her spoiled. There was some familiarity affectionate behavior that fits very well
with some children that will protect the venerable old age of a parent. The Duke was left watching
worship with that sly look more tenderly. When they returned back to leave, followed him with eyes,
lowered his eyelids slowly, stirring between his lips and the American
fig sketching in his face was a grin that lasted even a few seconds
after of out of sight.

Things continued in the state before. Despite the will of the Duchess was strict, Salabert did
not deign to speak a word of interest. Continue to have their chief flow delivered to business
with absolute confidence. His daughter and her husband lost it to see this attitude. Began to live
rough, to communicate to every moment with violence impressions, to form plans to bring an explanation.
Clementina Osorio claimed that you speak. This thought was she who had kindly ask for an explanation
before from making a complaint. After several days of hesitation, finally decided the wife
to address a few words to his father, though with some hesitation and pregnancy, he knew the
character of this and better yet your own.

- Let's see, dad - he said, finding him alone in the office, with affected gaiety -. When I
talk about money?

- What money? ... Why? - Duke responded with surprise, looking at her face so innocent that made
you want to slap him.

- Why should it be? to find out what concerns me. Am I not the only universal Mom's heir? - replied
without leaving the jovial tone, but with some alteration in voice well perceptible.

- Ah, yes - said the Duke, making a hand gesture of indifference -. We will discuss later ...
Much later!

Clementina turned pale. Anger made her jump to her blood. His lips trembled and was about to say
nonsense.

- It would be nice, however, we understood we ...-- murmured faintly.

-
Nothing, nothing, not talk now.

When you have time and mood and I will deal with those things.

He spoke with such confidence and indifference not without contempt, that his daughter had
to choose between give free rein to the tongue, to break with his father in a violent way,
or leave. Decidióse, after a moment's hesitation about this. He turned on his heels, and without
a word goodbye left the room and got into the car, in a state of excitement that shook whole body.

When
he got home he ran to lock herself in her room and gave out the fury that seized. He cried,
kicked and tore his clothes, broke a piece of junk. Osorio also mounted angry and said he would
do and events. All this was not, however, rather than a letter that, with enough respect, his father
invited him to manifest the state of their finances, to kick off early trading inventory. Salabert
did not answer this letter. We wrote another. Neither. They stopped to visit. Clementina did not
want go "not to make a scandal." Osorio was not considered sufficient moral force, since the state
of their marital relationships, with power to claim the wealth of his wife. In this predicament
talked to some friends of the Duke of respect, and sent them as medians.

They fulfilled their task: they spoke with the old, and after several interviews resolved to bring
about a friendly meeting so that the case go to court. Efectuóse this, after some resistance
by Clementina, in the palace of father. It was attended, besides stakeholders Ortega's father,
Count Cotorraso, Calderon and Jimenez Arbós. The latter (which had ceased to be a minister and
was in opposition) opened the meeting broaching a speech "conciliatory
tone" excited to Concord for not giving the public the spectacle of
a dispute between father and daughter money issues, show that, given
his high position in the world, could not to be repugnant. Followed
him in using the word Father Ortega, who with persuasive accent and
unctuous that characterized him, after giving them, like the Duke
to their children a good crazy praise soap to put soft, appealed to
his Christian feelings, they This was a bad example that would, I
painted the sweetness of love and sacrifice mutual and concluded by
promising them eternal glory.

Clementina said the first she had no
other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same relations
of affection and respect than before, and that to achieve was willing
to do whatever was possible. The hard, dry tone that gave these words
and the scowl that accompanied them did not provide clear evidence
of his sincerity. However, the duke said so moved.

- Arbós! Father!
You, my children! Everyone knows my character perfectly .... For me,
outside the family there is no happiness possible .... After the terrible
blow that out of suffering, the only thing I have left in the world
is my daughter .... Here I have concentrated all my love, my hope
and my pride .... I worked for her, I fought tirelessly, have met
I own the capital .... I can say I've never felt the need for money
rather than my woman (God rest his soul) and my daughter ..., by viewing
them happy being surrounded by and luxury .... I always have enough
to live four quarters, as you know. Today I am old, more so .... What
do I and millions? Soon I will be forced to take the train to another
neighborhood, eh, Julian? And thou likewise. Consequently, to whom
may come up that I will fight as a matter of pennies to the daughter
of my heart ... Here there has been more than a mistake. I needed
time to clarify my issues .... That's all .... But if you have thought
otherwise, my dear, I can only tell you this .... What's in this house
is yours and always has been. Take it whenever you want .... Take,
daughter, take it .... I simply nothing ....

As he uttered these
last words visibly moved, his eyes wanted arrasársele tears. All samples
were also of emotion and burst into phrases conciliation. Ortega's
father Clementina gently pushed into the arms of his father, and although
she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him, that was a
good time tight. Fortunately
for her, the delays incident to getting any body of new troops on the march had detained the
company, and a moment's inspection of the road showed her that they had not yet passed. Clambering
up a bank, she concealed herself and lay down. In a few moments she heard the noise they made
in the distance, and she was still panting from her haste when they came along, the soldiers
marching in order, as if still on parade, and a considerable company of friends attending them.
Not a man, however, dreamed that, flat on her face in the bushes, lay a girl peering down at
them with her breath held, but with a heart which beat so loud to her own ears that she felt
they must hear it. Least of all did Darby Stanley, marching erect and tall in front, for all
the sore heart in his bosom, know that her eyes were on him as long as she could see him.

When Vashti brought up the cow that night it was later than usual. It perhaps was fortunate
for her that the change made by the absence of the boys prevented any questioning. After all
the excitement her mother was in a fit of despondency. Her father sat in the door looking straight
before him, as silent as the pine on which his vacant gaze was fixed. Even when the little
cooking they had was through with and his supper was offered him, he never spoke. He ate in
silence and then took his seat again. Even Mrs. Mills's complaining about the cow straying
so far brought no word from him any more than from Vashti. He sat silent as before, his long
legs stretched out toward the fire. The glow of the embers fell on the rough, thin face and
lit it up, bringing out the features and making them suddenly clear-cut and strong. It might
have been only the fire, but there seemed the glow of something more, and the eyes burnt back
under the shaggy brows. The two women likewise were silent, the elder now and then casting
a glance at her husband. She offered him his pipe, but he said nothing, and silence fell as before.

Presently she could stand it no longer. "I de-clar, Vashti," she said, "I believe your pappy
takes it most harder than I does."

The girl made some answer about the boys. It was hardly intended for him to hear, but he rose
suddenly, and walking to the door, took down from the two dogwood forks above it his old, long,
single-barrelled gun, and turning to his wife said, "Git me my coat, old woman; by Gawd, I'm
a-gwine." The two women were both on their feet in a second. Their faces were white and their
hands were clenched under the sudden stress, their breath came fast. The older woman was the
first to speak.

"What in the worl' ken you do, Cove Mills, ole an' puny as you is, an' got the rheumatiz all
the time, too?"

"I ken pint a gun," said the old man, doggedly, "an' I'm a-gwine."

"An' what in the worl' is a-goin' to become of us, an' that cow got to runnin' away so, I'm
afeared all the time she'll git in the mash?" Her tone was querulous, but it was not positive,
and when her husband said again, "I'm a-gwine," she said no more, and all the time she was
getting together the few things which Cove would take.

As for Vashti, she seemed suddenly revivified; she moved about with a new step, swift, supple,
silent, her head up, a new light in her face, and her eyes, as they turned now and then on
her father, filled with a new fire. She did not talk much. "I'll a-teck care o' us all," she
said once; and once again, when her mother gave something like a moan, she supported her with
a word about "the only ones as gives three from one family." It was a word in season, for the
mother caught the spirit, and a moment later declared, with a new tone in her voice, that that
was better than Mrs. Stanley, and still they were better off than she, for they still had two
left to help each other, while she had not a soul.

"I'll teck care o' us all," repeated the girl once more.

It was only a few things that Cove Mills took with him that morning, when he set out in the
darkness to overtake the company before they should break camp--hardly his old game-bag half
full; for the equipment of the boys had stripped the little cabin of everything that could
be of use. He might only have seemed to be going hunting, as he slung down the path with his
old long-barrelled gun in his hand and his game-bag over his shoulder, and disappeared in the
darkness from the eyes of the two women standing in the cabin door.

The next morning Mrs. Mills paid Mrs. Stanley the first visit she had paid on that side the
branch since the day, three years before, when Cove and the boys had the row with Little Darby.
It might have seemed accidental, but Mrs. Stanley was the first person in the district to know
that all the Mills men were gone to the army. She went over again, from time to time, for it
was not a period to keep up open hostilities, and she was younger than Mrs. Stanley and better
off; but Vashti never went, and Mrs. Stanley never asked after her or came.

II

The company in which Little Darby and the Millses had enlisted was one of the many hundred
infantry companies which joined and were merged in the Confederate army. It was in no way particularly
signalized by anything that it did. It was commanded by the gentleman who did most toward getting
it up; and the officers were gentlemen. The seventy odd men who made the rank and file were
of all classes, from the sons of the oldest and wealthiest planters in the neighborhood to
Little Darby and the dwellers in the district. The war was very different from what those who
went into it expected it to be. Until it had gone on some time it seemed mainly marching and
camping and staying in camp, quite uselessly as seemed to many, and drilling and doing nothing.
Much of the time--especially later on--was given to marching and getting food; but drilling
and camp duties at first took up most of it. This was especially hard on the poorer men, no
one knew what it was to them. Some moped, some fell sick. Of the former class was Little Darby.
He was too strong to be sickly as one of the Mills boys was, who died of fever in hospital
only three months after they went in, and too silent to be as the other, who was jolly and
could dance and sing a good song and was soon very popular in the company; more popular even
than Old Cove, who was popular in several rights, as being about the oldest man in the company
and as having a sort of dry wit when he was in a good humor, which he generally was. Little
Darby was hardly distinguished at all, unless by the fact that he was somewhat taller than
most of his comrades and somewhat more taciturn. He was only a common soldier of a common class
in an ordinary infantry company, such a company as was common in the army. He still had the
little wallet which he had picked up in the path that morning he left home. He had asked both
of the Mills boys vaguely if they ever had owned such a piece of property, but they had not,
and when old Cove told him that he had not either, he had contented himself and carried it
about with him somewhat elaborately wrapped up and tied in an old piece of oilcloth and in
his inside jacket pocket for safety, with a vague feeling that some day he might find the owner
or return it. He was never on specially good terms with the Millses. Indeed, there was always
a trace of coolness between them and him. He could not give it to them. Now and then he untied
and unwrapped it in a secret place and read a little in the Testament, but that was all. He
never touched a needle or so much as a pin, and when he untied the parcel he generally counted
them to see that they were all there.

So the war went on, with battles coming a little oftener and food growing ever a little scarcer;
but the company was about as before, nothing particular--what with killing and fever a little
thinned, a good deal faded; and Little Darby just one in a crowd, marching with the rest, sleeping
with the rest, fighting with the rest, starving with the rest. He was hardly known for a long
time, except for his silence, outside of his mess. Men were fighting and getting killed or
wounded constantly; as for him, he was never touched; and as he did what he was ordered silently
and was silent when he got through, there was no one to sing his praise. Even when he was sent
out on the skirmish line as a sharp-shooter, if he did anything no one knew it. He would disappear
over a crest, or in a wood, and reappear as silent as if he were hunting in the swamps of the
district; clean his gun; cut up wood; eat what he could get, and sit by the fire and listen
to the talk, as silent awake as asleep.

One other thing distinguished him, he could handle an axe better than any man in the company;
but no one thought much of that--least of all, Little Darby; it only brought him a little more
work occasionally.

One day, in the heat of a battle which the men knew was being won, if shooting and cheering
and rapid advancing could tell anything, the advance which had been going on with spirit was
suddenly checked by a murderous artillery fire which swept the top of a slope, along the crest
of which ran a road a little raised between two deep ditches topped by the remains of heavy
fences. The infantry, after a gallant and hopeless charge, were ordered to lie down in the
ditch behind the pike, and were sheltered from the leaden sleet which swept the crest. Artillery
was needed to clear the field beyond, by silencing the batteries which swept it, but no artillery
could get into position for the ditches, and the day seemed about to be lost. The only way
was up the pike, and the only break was a gate opening into the field right on top of the hill.
The gate was gone, but two huge wooden gate-posts, each a tree-trunk, still stood and barred
the way. No cannon had room to turn in between them; a battery had tried and a pile of dead
men, horses, and debris marked its failure. A general officer galloped up with two or three
of his staff to try to start the advance again. He saw the impossibility.

"If we could get a couple of batteries into that field for three minutes," he said, "it would
do the work, but in ten minutes it will be too late."

The company from the old county was lying behind the bank almost exactly opposite the gate,
and every word could be heard.

Where the axe came from no one knew; but a minute later a man slung himself across the road,
and the next second the sharp, steady blows of an axe were ringing on the pike. The axeman
had cut a wide cleft in the brown wood, and the big chips were flying before his act was quite
taken in, and then a cheer went up from the line. 

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted and determined for all,
and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he regarded and respected by subjecting it all his will
and by virtue of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no one
had heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility, because at that
place had just person, and less even if it was of such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could do
or say anything not knowing. Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented,
as the thinker does not think very openly and very inward. We therefore believe that Don Paco
had not had affairs, not to be very fleeting and lightweight, and
that even during her long widowhood, had thought such a thing.

He, however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting with the clerk and the
pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches that were near the
fountain, were fixed with loving eyes delight in Juanita, still used
to come to fill their jar and be there chatting with other girls as
they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita,
it was difficult to master, but he spent considerable time without
outward sign that the felt, longing perhaps hide from himself for
reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ​​his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ​​marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.

Father Anselm was a saint and
a doctor, and all it said was for him could not help it, a legitimate
corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles. Her mother, as has been said, sometimes
went across the bottom, and now and then took with her a hare or a bird or a string of fish--on
condition from Vashti that it should not be known she had caught them; but Vashti never went,
and Mrs. Mills found herself sometimes put to it to explain to others her unneighborliness.
The best she could make of it to say that "Vashti, she always DO do her own way."

How Mrs. Stanley's wood-pile was kept up nobody knew, if, indeed, it could be called a wood-pile,
when it was only a recurring supply of dry-wood thrown as if accidentally just at the edge
of the clearing. Mrs. Stanley was not of an imaginative turn, even of enough to explain how
it came that so much dry-wood came to be there broken up just the right length; and Mrs. Mills
knew no more than that "that cow was always a-goin' off and a-keepin' Vashti a-huntin' everywheres
in the worl'."

All said, however, the women of the district had a hungry time, and the war bore on them heavily
as on everyone else, and as it went on they suffered more and more. Many a woman went day after
day and week after week without even the small portion of coarse corn-bread which was ordinarily
her common fare. They called oftener and oftener at the house of their neighbors who owned
the plantations near them, and always received something; but as time went on the plantations
themselves were stripped; the little things they could take with them when they went, such
as eggs, honey, etc., were wanting, and to go too often without anything to give might make
them seem like beggars, and that they were not. Their husbands and sons were in the army fighting
for the South, as well as those from the plantations, and they stood by this fact on the same
level.

The arrogant looks of the negroes were unpleasant, and in marked contrast to the universal
graciousness of their owners, but they were slaves and they could afford to despise them. Only
they must uphold their independence. Thus no one outside knew what the women of the district
went through. When they wrote to their husbands or sons that they were in straits, it meant
that they were starving. Such a letter meant all the more because they were used to hunger,
but not to writing, and a letter meant perhaps days of thought and enterprise and hours of labor.

As the war went on the hardships everywhere grew heavier and heavier; the letters from home
came oftener and oftener. Many of the men got furloughs when they were in winter quarters,
and sometimes in summer, too, from wounds, and went home to see their families. Little Darby
never went; he sent his mother his pay, and wrote to her, but he did not even apply for a furlough,
and he had never been touched except for a couple of flesh wounds which were barely skin-deep.
When he heard from his mother she was always cheerful; and as he knew Vashti had never even
visited her, there was no other reason for his going home. It was in the late part of the third
campaign of the war that he began to think of going.

When Cove Mills got a letter from his wife and told Little Darby how "ailin'" and "puny" his
mother was getting, Darby knew that the letter was written by Vashti, and he felt that it meant
a great deal. He applied for a furlough, but was told that no furloughs would be granted then--which
then meant that work was expected. It came shortly afterward, and Little Darby and the company
were in it. Battle followed battle. A good many men in the company were killed, but, as it
happened, not one of the men from the district was among them, until one day when the company
after a fierce charge found itself hugging the ground in a wide field, on the far side of which
the enemy--infantry and artillery--was posted in force. Lying down they were pretty well protected
by the conformation of the ground from the artillery; and lying down, the infantry generally,
even with their better guns, could not hurt them to a great extent; but a line of sharp-shooters,
well placed behind cover of scattered rocks on the far side of the field, could reach them
with their long-range rifles, and galled them with their dropping fire, picking off man after
man. A line of sharp-shooters was thrown forward to drive them in; but their guns were not
as good and the cover was inferior, and it was only after numerous losses that they succeeded
in silencing most of them. They still left several men up among the rocks, who from time to
time sent a bullet into the line with deadly effect. One man, in particular, ensconced behind
a rock on the hill-side, picked off the men with unerring accuracy. Shot after shot was sent
at him. At last he was quiet for so long that it seemed he must have been silenced, and they
began to hope; Ad Mills rose to his knees and in sheer bravado waved his hat in triumph. Just
as he did so a puff of white came from the rock, and Ad Mills threw up his hands and fell on
his back, like a log, stone dead. A groan of mingled rage and dismay went along the line. Poor
old Cove crept over and fell on the boy's body with a flesh wound in his own arm. Fifty shots
were sent at the rock, but a puff of smoke from it afterward and a hissing bullet showed that
the marksman was untouched. It was apparent that he was secure behind his rock bulwark and
had some opening through which he could fire at his leisure. It was also apparent that he must
be dislodged if possible; but how to do it was the question; no one could reach him. The slope
down and the slope up to the group of rocks behind which he lay were both in plain view, and
any man would be riddled who attempted to cross it. A bit of woods reached some distance up
on one side, but not far enough to give a shot at one behind the rock; and though the ground
in that direction dipped a little, there was one little ridge in full view of both lines and
perfectly bare, except for a number of bodies of skirmishers who had fallen earlier in the
day. It was discussed in the line; but everyone knew that no man could get across the ridge
alive. While they were talking of it Little Darby, who, with a white face, had helped old Cove
to get his boy's body back out of fire, slipped off to one side, rifle in hand, and disappeared
in the wood.

They were still talking of the impossibility of dislodging the sharp-shooter when a man appeared
on the edge of the wood. He moved swiftly across the sheltered ground, stooping low until he
reached the edge of the exposed place, where he straightened up and made a dash across it.
He was recognized instantly by some of the men of his company as Little Darby, and a buzz of
astonishment went along the line. What could he mean, it was sheer madness; the line of white
smoke along the wood and the puffs of dust about his feet showed that bullets were raining
around him. The next second he stopped dead-still, threw up his arms, and fell prone on his
face in full view of both lines. A groan went up from his comrades; the whole company knew
he was dead, and on the instant a puff of white from the rock and a hissing bullet told that
the sharp-shooter there was still intrenched in his covert. The men were discussing Little
Darby, when someone cried out and pointed to him. He was still alive, and not only alive, but
was moving--moving slowly but steadily up the ridge and nearer on a line with the sharp-shooter,
as flat on the ground as any of the motionless bodies about him. A strange thrill of excitement
went through the company as the dark object dragged itself nearer to the rock, and it was not
allayed when the whack of a bullet and the well-known white puff of smoke recalled them to
the sharp-shooter's dangerous aim; for the next second the creeping figure sprang erect and
made a dash for the spot. He had almost reached it when the sharp-shooter discovered him, and
the men knew that Little Darby had underestimated the quickness of his hand and aim; for at
the same moment the figure of the man behind the rock appeared for a second as he sprang erect;
there was a puff of white and Little Darby stopped and staggered and sank to his knees. The
next second, however, there was a puff from where he knelt, and then he sank flat once more,
and a moment later rolled over on his face on the near side of the rock and just at its foot.
There were no more bullets sent from that rock that day--at least, against the Confederates--and
that night Little Darby walked into his company's bivouac, dusty from head to foot and with
a bullet-hole in his clothes not far from his heart; but he said it was only a spent bullet
and had just knocked the breath out of him. He was pretty sore from it for a time, but was
able to help old Cove to get his boy's body off and to see him start; for the old man's wound,
though not dangerous, was enough to disable him and get him a furlough, and he determined to
take his son's body home, which the captain's influence enabled him to do. Between his wound
and his grief the old man was nearly helpless, and accepted Darby's silent assistance with
mute gratitude. Darby asked him to tell his mother that he was getting on well, and sent her
what money he had--his last two months' pay--not enough to have bought her a pair of stockings
or a pound of sugar. The only other message he sent was given at the station just as Cove set
out. He said:

"Tell Vashti as I got him as done it."

Old Cove grasped his hand tremulously and faltered his promise to do so, and the next moment
the train crawled away and left Darby to plod back to camp in the rain, vague and lonely in
the remnant of what had once been a gray uniform. If there was one thing that troubled him
it was that he could not return Vashti the needle-case until he replaced the broken needles--and
there were so many of them broken.

After this Darby was in some sort known, and was put pretty constantly on sharp-shooter service.

The men went into winter quarters before Darby heard anything from home. It came one day in
the shape of a letter in the only hand in the world he knew--Vashti's. What it could mean he
could not divine--was his mother dead? This was the principal thing that occurred to him. He
studied the outside. It had been on the way a month by the postmark, for letters travelled
slowly in those days, and a private soldier in an infantry company was hard to find unless
the address was pretty clear, which this was not. He did not open it immediately. His mother
must be dead, and this he could not face. Nothing else would have made Vashti write. At last
he went off alone and opened it, and read it, spelling it out with some pains. It began without
an address, with the simple statement that her father had arrived with Ad's body and that it
had been buried, and that his wound was right bad and her mother was mightily cut up with her
trouble. Then it mentioned his mother and said she had come to Ad's funeral, though she could
not walk much now and had never been over to their side since the day after he--Darby--had
enlisted; but her father had told her as how he had killed the man as shot Ad, and so she made
out to come that far. Then the letter broke off from giving news, and as if under stress of
feelings long pent up, suddenly broke loose: she declared that she loved him; that she had
always loved him--always--ever since he had been so good to her--a great big boy to a little
bit of a girl--at school, and that she did not know why she had been so mean to him; for when
she had treated him worst she had loved him most; that she had gone down the path that night
when they had met, for the purpose of meeting him and of letting him know she loved him; but
something had made her treat him as she did, and all the time she could have let him kill her
for love of him. Then he began to look with eagerness
approaching half again Raymond. He thought about writing asking for forgiveness of your visit and
harsh words, but it was too late for that. Then imagine that perhaps among his friends particularly
among journalists, had some who knew him and by which he could send a message of care. Rejected
it as dangerous. He even went through your head make sign to come down and give an explanation
of word, but do not dare. Was too humiliating.

The accident came to his assistance in resolving the matter at his pleasure, when least expected.
One night they met at the Comedy Theatre. Raymond, who spent the year of mourning I used to go
from time to time, was with her sister in the seats. She was in a box under against them. They
greeted each other warmly, and for a long time there was between the young and beautiful lady a shooting
glances and smiles that caught the attention of extremely Aurelia.

- But what is this?

Have you spoken to this lady?

- No.

- So what does such a smile? You seem like close friends.

- I do not know - said the young man a little confusing -.

Appears very affectionate with me. May suppose I was offended when
he went to home and want atonement.

In the first interval Aurelia received a beautiful bouquet of camellias brought a florist.

-
On behalf of the lady who is in the box number eleven.

The girl looked up and saw me looking at her smiling Clementina.

The two brothers were the thanks to strong head. Aurelia was very red.

- Do not you think - said his brother - I rise to thank the lady?

It was natural. Raimundo, when the curtain fell for the second time, left alone briefly and ascended
the stage of the lady.

A happy smile lit up the face of it to see the young at the door. He was received as an old friend
told to sit at his side drew with he quiet conversation, leaving completely abandoned his companion
forced Pascuala. Fortunately for this not long in coming Bonifacio, who never took no chair
when the family knew Osorio was in a theater box.

- I welcome you
keep me not grudge - quietly told him a long look insinuating -.

You do well. That proves that you have heart and talent. Le I confess with all candor that I
was wrong from medium to medium in the assessment of their behavior and himself. It's so true
than when I left home I would gladly become to ask you for forgiveness .... If not in words, eyes
and gestures you should understand I have asked that after many times ....

He still got another three or four passes over, true teacher, who arranged Raimundo head the
poor, that is, left him immobile, confused, fascinated, as she wanted, in short. At the same
time those skills explained a bit of sympathy alien whose memory was ashamed.

Without giving him time to recover interest he asked his sister, for their lives, their butterflies.
Raimundo answered their questions with more than enough brevity, not cold, but for their lack
of world. But she was not disconcerted. Still loving increasingly wrapping in a network of small
words and tender looks flattering. The more embedded and can even be said was excited regained
his youthful admirer, here shown in the hall Pepe Castro on the seats, properly dressed in
tails, the tips of his mustache stickers, fine needles, loops of hair coquettishly glued to
his temples, the air loose manly, dismissive. He poured his fascinating look first, Olympic,
for the seats, leaving trembling and subjugated all the marriageable girls that roamed around scattered,
then with serene start as the flight of an eagle, Alzola to stage
eleven.

Could not suppress a movement of surprise. Clementina Who spoke so intimately? I did not know
that young. He led his tiny twins.

Nothing, he had ever seen. Clementina, who warned the surprise of her lover, after responding to
the greeting redoubled his kindness Raimundo, turning entirely to him, bringing her face to
speak, making a thousand goodies aimed at drawing the attention of the noble savage and worry.
I felt a joy evil in it. Castro had come to be indifferent. He directed it for a long time the
Raimundo twins in a flippant and even provocative.

Our young man paid some looks innocent curiosity, because I had the
honor of knowing the terror of husbands.

Realizing that his sister would be impatient, even from the stage
not lost sight rose from his chair to leave.

- We'll be friends right?
- Said the beautiful lady holding him by the hand -.

Many memories his little sister.

I need to produce a feeling of this sudden and strange visit, and the give. Tell it to one
of these days I'll be surprised in the midst of housework .... You interest me very much,
so young brother and sister living alone .... Goodbye, Alcazar: I
said.

When the box got a bit dizzy and sat back down next to Aurelia, said this:

- How beautiful is this woman! ... But I still believe it does not look like mom.

Raymond, who did not remember at the time of such like, he felt a slight shudder and stammered:

-
Well, I find a certain air ....

Now it was just air. The boy began to feel remorse. The impression Clementina caused him was
not very respectful devotion before being locked in singular way with her knowledge.

Pepe Castro, so I saw in the seats, and began staring at him with no doubt trying analyzed. Since
that boy blonde did not belong to the high society he frequented,
pasósele by the imagination (because they had imagination and all),
which could well be the same tracker who had complained both formerly
Clementine.

As Naturally, this suspicion is excited him more sympathetically at him. Raymond was so attentive
to contemplate the box of Madame de Osorio, who did not notice the
provocative insistence Tenorio.

This, tired at last, rose to greet his beloved. He sat beside her, in the same position that
a moment before had been Raimundo, who saw him in this way felt strange
uneasiness, a vague sadness did not try to define.

However, it noted that lady was very cheerful and gallant gentleman seriously, and that she
could not wait to take frequent glances to the seats, which put the other sulking increasingly and
gloomy.

- Have you noticed how you look at that lady? - Aurelia asked his brother -. It seems as if liked.

-
What nonsense! he said blushing -. What a good boy to me! If the gentleman next to it now ....

Aurelia
protested laughing. No, his brother was better looking than that soldier chrome rosettes on
the cheeks as the dancers.

When he finished the performance, Ray could see, not without some feeling of jealousy, Clementina
waiting in the lobby your Land in the company of the same gentleman. Saluted it With such affection,
that Castro, increasingly restless, again addressed a long and intense look analysis.

On the space of a few days the young entomologist Clementina waited anxiously tarried at the door
of his house and go up to the promise. Their hopes were dashed. The lady was crossing as always
with live pasito often affectionately greeted him first and from the corner back to make the proverbial
good-bye. Each time you saved the door Rayford's heart shrank, it became a bad mood. "Wow, you've
forgotten, he said to himself: I will say no more with it, as happened not join us again somewhere.
"He began to help the chance to attend more frequently to the theater
Comedy, but could not see it.

The Royal Theatre, where surely was, did not dare go for fear that
he thought that lasted even persecution.

Why he had gotten into who was to head up into his house precisely
at that hour and not another, we can not explain.

What I do claim is that they were immense astonishment and embarrassment
when one morning Clementina was allowed to enter the house.

Asked the lady of course. Aurelia was in the room and passed word to his brother immediately.
When he appeared, the lady was installed on the sofa talking to disengage from a friend who
had them the day before visited.

- Be it known that this visit is not for you - he said smiling and holding out his gloved hand.

-
I would dare to imagine, madame - "he said timidly squeezing.

- Just in case!

I do not believe you fool, but women must always live prevented.

In the ease and joked that it took some warn could be affected. His voice was slightly altered. About
this pale eyes had always complained of emotion that overwhelms the
spirit.

The visit was short, but she had time to flatter the girl with a lot of sensitive words, with
effusive pledges. He made her promise to go to see it someday. If society did not like, it was
afternoon and babble for a while soloists.

Home and teach him some work. The orphans and the youth of Aurelia impressed. Since she had
said to resemble his mother a bit, as Raymond said it was believed with some claim to her affection.

-
Nothing, when you get bored here alone, are you coming to my house which is nearby, and we bored
together, it is always easier.

Aurelia poor, confused by this kindness and worldly conversation,
did nothing but smile.

When he rose to leave, said:

- It is your responsibility, Alcazar, to remind Aurelia his word. As you can do what you want.
The wise do not dare to insist because it bothers them at least thought ....

Having fully recovered his composure he spoke in a friendly tone, protector, a little maternal. Still
on the stairs for a moment entertained them with his brash talk and suggestive at once and he reiterated
with grace all its offerings. Raymond would not permit accompany her. It was only leaving a scented
trail sucked it with more pleasure than his sister.

Aurelia because then they closed the door remained silent. In the words of praise Rayford was
taxed to the lady warmly, nodded in a laconic tone that put out the fires.

It must be confessed. The first impression of filial adoration inspired young Clementina entomologist
had been fading slowly or, rather, confused with another tilt less holy, but keeping something
from her. Like all men away treatment of women, dedicated exclusively to the study, the view of
sex and recognition of the divine law of love was alive and intense.

The day after the visit of Clementina Aurelia wanted and the pay, saying of course that desire
timidly and with words muffled. But his sister showed him the desirability of waiting for some
time and he resigned. At the end of the visit. Aurelia spent an afternoon in the boudoir of
Madame de Osorio. Raymond, after much hesitation, he did not dare to go with it.

After three or four days came back home Clementina youth to invite them to go at night to the
Real. It was a real trouble for them. Rayford had no tails, Aurelia also did not have a very
fitted wardrobe. However, they were. A relative gave the young his coat: Aurelia was the best
rags of the closet. The next day Raymond was responsible a dress suit in the best tailoring
in Madrid. Not only did this, but also without informing his sister, went to the Royal Theatre's
accounting and took a seat near manure Osorio of the pit, in the same turn.

The intimacy between them grew quickly, thanks to the efforts of Raymond. Because his sister,
but also praised the kindness of his new friend, oppose silent and passive resistance to attend
their treatment. For more than made could not erase from his mind the strange way starting this
friendship, nor could he hide the false bottom in it existed.

Knowing Raimundo tried to dispel their apprehensions desire, sometimes directly, other indirectly.
Aurelia was rather an ugly girl pretty, as we have said, good sense and honest heart. The adoration
he had for Ray, instilled by his late mother, did not prevent the parties know their character
thin, weak, impressionable with excess and childish. Actually in this respect it represents
the male element and the female he indoors.

He cried very easily, she hardly. He felt strange apprehensions, fainting, hallucinations
sometimes true, she had the nervous system perfectly balanced.

Was sound and solid, he, sickly and straight. In the months following death of the mother, Raymond,
taking heart of grace with the idea to protect your sister, had been more resolute and manly.
In time he recovered temperament their rights, fell back into their hobbies childish, as women's
impressionability, while she grew up discovering a sound temperament, balanced and straight.

It
did not take much work to bring Clementina, fascinate all the young naturalist. Sometimes going
to your hotel boys, others she was going home from the kids or taking them get to the theater
or walk, they were most of the day.

Pepe Castro, the first Raimundo night found in the room Osorio understood perfectly what was
happening, and filled with despair.

- At this very great ... now gives babies - muttered, grinding his teeth -. All conclude losses
for these extravagances.

He thought the young and cause head. He soon persuaded that this step would be to disaster. What
would it gain? Clementina absolutely nothing because you detest. The scandal would reveal their
defeat, the more shameful as the winner a little boy was absolutely unknown. Determinóse therefore
wise not to give his arm to turn to the world and away from his beloved temporarily, allowing
her to gratify whim. Maybe later, tired of tease with that lamb, the lamb again the fold.

Raymond was not supposed child as Castro, as counted twenty-three years old, but had a child and
delicate figure did not let him appear more than eighteen.

Your health was hesitant and brittle. He suffered frequent attacks, particularly since the death
of his mother, they sometimes lose sight, other speech, with another variety of strange phenomena
which fortunately lasted a short time. You saw seized with deep melancholy, crisis violent ending
for a hearty and prolonged crying in hysterical women horn. The view of the chandeliers spasms caused
him, the knife of a doctor shuddered. Apprehension of insanity made him suffer horribly sometimes,
other was the fear of suicide against their will. Never had weapons at hand, and the fear of throwing
from the balcony was to close the night locked in his room, delivering the key to his sister,
the only witness and confidante of these ravings. His temperament and effeminate education she
had were the cause of them. Watched over, however, carefully as all Sufferers, who are more
than those who think, tried with great effort to refrain comprising a fool that falls on men so
constituted.

Anyone will be represented well what would happen to this boy when a woman so beautiful so flirty and
as experienced as Clementina was resolved to make his conquest. First her extreme shyness
kept him from realizing the conduct of the lady. I thought that those greetings affectionate,
those smiles were nothing more than the expression of a sudden sympathy with loss had excited
her. Yet, when he befriended them and multiplied signals their inclination, and her sister gave
the alarm, he could not imagine that there could be between them other than a close friendship
more or less protective and motherly by of it, delivered and fervent
for him.

However, the elixir of love that was dropwise Clementina dropping on his lips, came at last to the
heart. When I least expected it found love, dude. But as they made this discovery he was seized
with shame immense, and thought she would never have the courage to propose. On the one hand the behavior
of his idol with him, the constant testimony of sympathy lavished on him, lend themselves to
forge illusions. But it seemed so strange and unlikely that a shy, inexperienced, devoid of
attractive could obtain favors worldly lady so rich and so beautiful that instantly abandoned or
gently rocking them knowing that they were pure fantasy. In addition, no could get rid of the
pang from time to time in his mind. Lady resembled her mother, no doubt. For this alone had noticed
her, and had been his street tracker some time. Was not a real desecration, an abomination the
image of his mother inspire carnal desires?

Well, despite these regrets, his invincible shyness and the claims
of reason Rayford was increasingly captivated by this woman.

Truth got Clementina play all weapons at its disposal, which were not few or even moldy. As more
shyness of his youth growing up in her adoring daring and aplomb. In love this happens almost
always, but here, given the special circumstances of both, acquired greater importance. Shyness
it became a disease, a strange thing, of which was perfectly ridiculous no account could be overcome
by any means. On the contrary, the more efforts made to acquire poise and disengage front of her best
showing the emotion that was upon him. At first he spoke with some serenity, authorizing a little
joke or witty; then this serenity was lost, the jokes stopped. No one could approach it without
disturbed, could not shake hands without a slight tremor. If the lady staring at him, her cheeks
lit.

Clementina could not help but smile at the innocent dawn of love. It was enjoying full curious,
happy feeling even beautiful enough to inspire a child as rendered passion. Sometimes wickedly
amused at atortolarle in putting red, showing lively and outspoken as a cool, others plate
appeared to humor melancholy glancing shy as a schoolgirl: Others,
finally, treated him with tender familiarity, hearing about his life,
his actions and thoughts, as a loving mother or sister.

So it was when Raymond regained a little freedom and daring look
at the goddess face face.

Clementina often teased him for his scientific hobbies, went into his office and left scattered on
the table or the floor cartons of butterflies. This, if produce execute someone else in the
house a disaster, did laugh at the young naturalist.

Began to whisper among the close of the lady something about these new and extravagant their
love, advancing, of course, much more than they actually were.

One night food and triplet Pepa Frias said three or four elegant wild were around arguing
his case:

- Desengáñense you. Clementina ends up falling for a Newfoundland dog or a journalist.

When Raymond came in the room with his head of blond cherub and melancholy, with their appearance humble
and embarrassed, all eyes rested on him with curiosity. There were smiles murmurs one-liners
and stupid. Will be discussed. In general, men over However, we judged ridiculous behavior Osorio's
wife, but some ladies looked sympathy to the young man, very nice your air were naive, and understood
the whim Clementina. There were among them who tried to seduce him.

Was already considered our young mistress Clementina officer when
he still had not his lips touched the tip of your fingers or dreamed
it. However, love was doing such progress in his chest that he feared
one of these days fall on his knees before her as leading men of comedy.
He suffered horribly at the slightest sign of contempt, and enjoyed
as an angel when the lady expressed her affection anyway. Clementina
was in no hurry to give lucky lover, but she was determined to do
so. He liked to prolong this situation, noting with secret pleasure
the progress of the passion and events offered in the young. Disgusted
ravings of courtiers, was attractive to be adored live that way frenetic
and mute, to playing the role of a goddess. A glance from her was
pale or blush that child, a word he was glad or sad to despair.

Raymond
went to the Royal every night that it was his turn to Clementina.
Up to the stage to hello, and sometimes, as required by her, there
was one or two acts.

"What's that?" they asked, sharply.

"Leastways it's stopped up, and I knows a way down this a-way in and about as nigh as that,"
went on the speaker, in the same level voice.

"Where do you live?" they asked him.

"I lives back in the pines here a piece."

"How long have you lived here?"

"About twenty-three years, I b'leeves; 'ats what my mother says."

"You know all the country about here?"

"Ought to."

"Been in the army?"

"Ahn--hahn."

"What did you desert for?"

Darby looked at him leisurely.

"'D you ever know a man as 'lowed he'd deserted? I never did." A faint smile flickered on his
pale face.

He was taken to the camp before the commander, a dark, self-contained looking man with a piercing
eye and a close mouth, and there closely questioned as to the roads, and he gave the same account
he had already given. The negro guide was brought up and his information tallied with the new
comer's as far as he knew it, though he knew well only the road which they were on and which
Darby said was stopped up. He knew, too, that a road such as Darby offered to take them by
ran somewhere down that way and joined the road they were on a good distance below; but he
thought it was a good deal longer way and they had to cross a fork of the river.

There was a short consultation between the commander and one or two other officers, and then
the commander turned to Darby, and said:

"What you say about the road's being obstructed this way is partly true; do you guarantee that
the other road is clear?"

Darby paused and reflected.

"I'll guide you," he said, slowly.

"Do you guarantee that the bridge on the river is standing and that we can get across?"

"Hit's standing now, fur as I know."

"Do you understand that you are taking your life in your hand?"

Darby looked at him coolly.

"And that if you take us that way and for any cause--for any cause whatsoever we fail to get
through safe, we will hang you to the nearest tree?"

Darby waited as if in deep reflection.

"I understand," he said. "I'll guide you."

The silence that followed seemed to extend all over the camp. The commander was reflecting
and the others had their eyes fastened on Darby. As for him, he sat as unmoved as if he had
been alone in the woods.

"All right," said the leader, suddenly, "it's a bargain: we'll take your road. What do you want?"

"Could you gi'me a cup o' coffee? It's been some little time since I had anything to eat, an'
I been sort o' sick."

"You shall have 'em," said the officer, "and good pay besides, if you lead us straight; if
not, a limb and a halter rein; you understand?"

A quarter of an hour later they were on the march, Darby trudging in front down the middle
of the muddy road between two of the advance guard, whose carbines were conveniently carried
to insure his fidelity. What he thought of, who might know?--plain; poor; ignorant; unknown;
marching every step voluntarily nearer to certain and ignominious death for the sake of his cause.

As day broke they saw a few people who lived near the road, and some of them recognized Darby
and looked their astonishment to see him guiding them. One or two of the women broke out at
him for a traitor and a dog, to which he said nothing; but only looked a little defiant with
two red spots burning in his thin cheeks, and trudged on as before; now and then answering
a question; but for the most part silent.

He must have thought of his mother, old and by herself in her cabin; but she would not live
long; and of Vashti some. She had called him a deserter, as the other women had done. A verse
from the Testament she gave him may have come into his mind; he had never quite understood
it: "Blessed are ye when men shall revile ye." Was this what it meant? This and another one
seemed to come together. It was something about "enduring hardship like a good soldier", he
could not remember it exactly. Yes, he could do that. But Vashti had called him a deserter.
Maybe now though she would not; and the words in the letter she had written him came to him,
and the little package in his old jacket pocket made a warm place there; and he felt a little
fresher than before. The sun came up and warmed him as he trudged along, and the country grew
flatter and flatter, and the road deeper and deeper. They were passing down into the bottom.
On either side of them were white-oak swamps, so that they could not see a hundred yards ahead;
but for several miles Darby had been watching for the smoke of the burning bridge, and as they
neared the river his heart began to sink. There was one point on the brow of a hill before
descending to the bottom, where a sudden bend of the road and curve of the river two or three
miles below gave a sight of the bridge. Darby waited for this, and when he reached it and saw
the bridge still standing his heart sank like lead. Other eyes saw it too, and a score of glasses
were levelled at it, and a cheer went up.

"Why don't you cheer too?" asked an officer. "You have more to make or lose than anyone else."

"We ain't there yit," said Darby. As the overseer Calvo
was named, the waiter surnamed Calvete. And so you can see how much there sometimes suffer
the cleanliness of Dona Ines, I cite a case that I have Calvete referred.

Fulfilled two years before the firstborn from the Rolands, managed to teach him to pronounce Calvete
as perfectly true three-syllable word that is a very strong suction. Delighted with his win
pedagogical ran through the house screaming like a madman

- Mr Don Alvaro! It makes it clear! The gentleman makes it clear!

Dona Ines was upset and angry, but don Alvaro was more delighted than
him in Calvete and albricias a doubloon to four dollars, after the
boy told him before the catchword and he admired the use and precocious
student and teacher's teaching virtue.

Dona Ines had few friends, because almost all hidalguillas and styling of the population were
well below it in understanding, enlightenment, refinement and wealth.

Who else accompanied, therefore, their loneliness to Ms. Dona Ines was the chief Don Andrés Rubio,
enthralled with the friendly treatment of it and captured its discretion and its beauty. This
occasion was that they supposed slanderers and say a thousand tricks. But who in this world
is free of bad language and a false witness? What a rude people place has to understand the
sophisticated and platonic friendship of two choice spirits? Mr. was pastor of the few who really
understood, and so was very well that friendship, and perhaps he
thanked God that exists, because it was in good the poor and the church,
whom Dona Ines and Don Andrew, agreed, many did present and handouts. She knew that it could not be as deep as it looked
between her and the bridge, for the messenger had gone before her that way, and a moment later
she had gone back and collected a bundle of "dry-wood", and with a long pole to feel her way
she waded carefully in. As it grew deeper and deeper until it reached her breast, she took
the matches out and held them in her teeth, holding her bundle above her head. It was hard
work to keep her footing this way, however, and once she stepped into a hole and went under
to her chin, having a narrow escape from falling into a place which her pole could not fathom;
but she recovered herself and at last was on the bridge. When she tried to light a fire, however,
her matches would not strike. They as well as the wood had gotten wet when she slipped, and
not one would light. She might as well have been at her home in the district. When every match
had been tried and tried again on a dry stone, only to leave a white streak of smoking sulphur
on it, she sat down and cried. For the first time she felt cold and weary. The rays of the
sun fell on her and warmed her a little, and she wiped her eyes on her sleeve and looked up.
The sun had just come up over the hill. It gave her courage. She turned and looked the other
way from which she had come--nothing but a waste of water and woods. Suddenly, from a point
up over the nearer woods a little sparkle caught her eye; there must be a house there, she
thought; they might have matches, and she would go back and get some. But there it was again--it
moved. There was another--another--and something black moving. Father Anselm was aware their
losses, helping it to make it more respectable in their eyes to the prudent and patient lady.

Such was the aristocratic distinction of Doña Inés, who could not help, until his father was some vulgar
coarseness that not a little distressed, but as Dona Ines was very present the commandments
of the Law of God and accurately observed rigorously, never stopped honor your father was, but
tried to honor him from afar and do not see often in order not to
lose illusions.

In sum, the cacique don Andrés was the only person who by nature was at the height of Dona Ines
and was able to understand and admire. I say naturally, because the father Anselmo though nature
was understood, was also so helpful and so enlightened with the grace of God that no one understood
as the value and excellence of Dona Ines, and very worthy of its friendly service, taking with
it piadosísimos symposia, which was unleashed against the abominable
corruption of our century and against the blasphemous disbelief prevails
the day and to be taking over all spirits.

III
Without a device I already submitted my characters, several of the
main characters to be included in this story, but I still have two
of which should prior to any news. At last she got a little blaze
started, but it would not burn fast; it simply smoked. She expected the soldiers to come out
of the woods every minute, and every second she was looking up to see if they were in sight.
What would Darby think? What would happen if she failed? She sprang up to look around: the
old rail of the bridge caught her eye; it was rotted, but what remained was heart and would
burn like light-wood. She tore a piece of it down and stuck one end in the fire: it caught
and sputtered and suddenly flamed up; the next second she was tearing the rail down all along
and piling it on the blaze, and as it caught she dashed back through the water and up the hill,
and brought another armful of rails. Back and forth she waded several times and piled on rails
until she got a stack of them--two stacks, and the bridge floor dried and caught and began
to blaze; and when she brought her last armful it was burning all across. She had been so busy
bringing wood that she had forgotten to look across to the other side for some time, and was
only reminded of it as she was wading back with her last armful of rails by something buzzing
by her ear, and the second after the crack of a half-dozen guns followed from the edge of the
wood the other side. She could not see them well for the burden in her arms, but she made out
a number of horses dashing into the water on the little flat, and saw some puffs of smoke about
their heads. She was bound to put her wood on, however, so she pushed ahead, went up on the
bridge through the smoke as far as she could go, and flung her rails on the now devouring fire.
A sudden veer of the wind blew the smoke behind her and bent the flames aside, and she could
see clear across the fire to the other bank. She saw a great number of men on horses at the
edge of the woods, in a sort of mass; and a half-dozen or so in the water riding up to their
saddle-skirts half-way to the bridge, and between the first two, wading in water to his waist,
Darby. 

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods capital law pre-historic
East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu .-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews
.-- Appendices .-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement .--
Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.

General part: Subject of Law .-- .-- Foreign Object of the legal, origination and termination Rights
to acquire modes .-- .-- Information law legal relationships space and time .-- Protection of
Rights .-- The possession.

Special section: The right of individuals .-- .-- Right of property
law of obligations, contracts and classes of society .-- .-- law marriage
law, family law and inheritance law .-- professions.

Public law, law of the State and society .-- international law.

Legal methodology.

The cost of the work, 18 pesetas in Madrid and 21 provinces.

Spanish pasta bound, 4.50 pesetas.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA

Select theater, preceded by a critical study
of D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, 4 volumes, 8. º, 48 and 56 reais.
Contains:

VOLUME = I =

Critical study, by D. Marcelino Menéndez
Pelayo.

RELIGIOUS AND PHILOSOPHICAL DRAMAS

Life is a dream .-- Devotion
of the Cross .-- The prodigious magical .-- The Constant Prince.

=
VOLUME II =

Tragic drama

The physician of his honor .-- A grievance
secret, secret revenge .-- The Mayor of Zalamea .-- The largest Amar
.-- monster jealousy after death. 

For Juanita, who had spent all day sewing and embroidering at home, was a pretext solace or walking
about at night going to the source water. His mother was in the position something lordly, dignified
and well off and figured it found, and addressed the development Juanita physicist, who had come
to transform into a gorgeous little boy and real girl, was not well and was given very little
tone going to the source water as the most plebeian pelafustana humble.
 As he did so the deserter wheeled on him, and said, "God d--n you--don't
you know that's a woman," and springing on him like a tiger tore him from his horse; and, before
they took in what he was doing, had, before their very eyes, flung both of them into a place
where the current was running, and they had disappeared. They had seen the deserter's head
once in the stream lower down, and had fired at him, and he thought had hit him, as he went
down immediately and they did not see him again. Finally, in the
part referring to the German civil law, not only indicated the main changes made to it after the publication
of the encyclopedia, but the most important differences between the former and positive law.

Volume
I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life and works of .-- Preface Ahrens
the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ​​law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

Some books by Thomas Nelson Page:

     In Ole Virginia.
     Meh Lady.  A Story of the War. 

Father Anselmo, such was the parish priest, admired in good faith to Ms. Donna Ines as a model
of deep religious faith and aristocratic distinction. It was the ideal type made of the great lady,
as he imagined.
     Two Little Confederates.
     "Befo' de War."  Echoes of Negro Dialect.  (with A. C. Gordon)

