As soon as we are in possession of Cuba and have pacified the island it will be necessary to
give aid and direction to its people to form a government for themselves. This should be undertaken
at the earliest moment consistent with safety and assured success. It is important that our
relations with this people shall be of the most friendly character and our commercial relations
close and reciprocal. It should be our duty to assist in every proper way to build up the waste
places of the island, encourage the industry of the people, and assist them to form a government
which shall be free and independent, thus realizing the best aspirations of the Cuban people.

Spanish rule must be replaced by a just, benevolent, and humane government, created by the
people of Cuba, capable of performing all international obligations, and which shall encourage
thrift, industry, and prosperity and promote peace and good will among all of the inhabitants,
whatever may have been their relations in the past. Neither revenge nor passion should have
a place in the new government. Until there is complete tranquillity in the island and a stable
government inaugurated military occupation will be continued.

With the one exception of the rupture with Spain, the intercourse of the United States with
the great family of nations has been marked with cordiality, and the close of the eventful
year finds most of the issues that necessarily arise in the complex relations of sovereign
states adjusted or presenting no serious obstacle to a just and honorable solution by amicable
agreement.

A long unsettled dispute as to the extended boundary between the Argentine Republic and Chile,
stretching along the Andean crests from the southern border of the Atacama Desert to Magellan
Straits, nearly a third of the length of the South American continent, assumed an acute stage
in the early part of the year, and afforded to this Government occasion to express the hope
that the resort to arbitration, already contemplated by existing conventions between the parties,
might prevail despite the grave difficulties arising in its application. I am happy to say
that arrangements to this end have been perfected, the questions of fact upon which the respective
commissioners were unable to agree being in course of reference to Her Britannic Majesty for
determination. A residual difference touching the northern boundary line across the Atacama
Desert, for which existing treaties provided no adequate adjustment, bids fair to be settled
in like manner by a joint commission, upon which the United States minister at Buenos Ayres
has been invited to serve as umpire in the last resort.

I have found occasion to approach the Argentine Government with a view to removing differences
of rate charges imposed upon the cables of an American corporation in the transmission between
Buenos Ayres and the cities of Uruguay and Brazil of through messages passing from and to the
United States. Although the matter is complicated by exclusive concessions by Uruguay and Brazil
to foreign companies, there is strong hope that a good understanding will be reached and that
the important channels of commercial communication between the United States and the Atlantic
cities of South America may be freed from an almost prohibitory discrimination.

In this relation I may be permitted to express my sense of the fitness of an international
agreement whereby the interchange of messages over connecting cables may be regulated on a
fair basis of uniformity. The world has seen the postal system developed from a congeries of
independent and exclusive services into a well-ordered union, of which all countries enjoy
the manifold benefits. It would be strange were the nations not in time brought to realize
that modern civilization, which owes so much of its progress to the annihilation of space by
the electric force, demands that this all-important means of communication be a heritage of
all peoples, to be administered and regulated in their common behoof. A step in this direction
was taken when the international convention of 1884 for the protection of submarine cables
was signed, and the day is, I trust, not far distant when this medium for the transmission
of thought from land to land may be brought within the domain of international concert as completely
as is the material carriage of commerce and correspondence upon the face of the waters that
divide them.

The claim of Thomas Jefferson Page against Argentina, which has been pending many years, has
been adjusted. The sum awarded by the Congress of Argentina was $4,242.35.

The sympathy of the American people has justly been offered to the ruler and the people of
Austria-Hungary by reason of the affliction that has lately befallen them in the assassination
of the Empress-Queen of that historic realm.

On the 10th of September, 1897, a conflict took place at Lattimer, Pa., between a body of striking
miners and the sheriff of Luzerne County and his deputies, in which 22 miners were killed and
44 wounded, of whom 10 of the killed and 12 of the wounded were Austrian and Hungarian subjects.
This deplorable event naturally aroused the solicitude of the Austro-Hungarian Government,
which, on the assumption that the killing and wounding involved the unjustifiable misuse of
authority, claimed reparation for the sufferers. Apart from the searching investigation and
peremptory action of the authorities of Pennsylvania, the Federal Executive took appropriate
steps to learn the merits of the case, in order to be in a position to meet the urgent complaint
of a friendly power. The sheriff and his deputies, having been indicted for murder, were tried,
and acquitted, after protracted proceedings and the hearing of hundreds of witnesses, on the
ground that the killing was in the line of their official duty to uphold law and preserve public
order in the State. A representative of the Department of Justice attended the trial and reported
its course fully. With all the facts in its possession, this Government expects to reach a
harmonious understanding on the subject with that of Austria-Hungary, notwithstanding the renewed
claim of the latter, after learning the result of the trial, for indemnity for its injured
subjects.

Despite the brief time allotted for preparation, the exhibits of this country at the Universal
Exposition at Brussels in 1897 enjoyed the singular distinction of a larger proportion of awards,
having regard to the number and classes of articles entered than those of other countries.
The worth of such a result in making known our national capacity to supply the world's markets
is obvious.

Exhibitions of this international character are becoming more frequent as the exchanges of
commercial countries grow more intimate and varied. Hardly a year passes that this Government
is not invited to national participation at some important foreign center, but often on too
short notice to permit of recourse to Congress for the power and means to do so. My predecessors
have suggested the advisability of providing by a general enactment and a standing appropriation
for accepting such invitations and for representation of this country by a commission. This
plan has my cordial approval.

I trust that the Belgian restrictions on the importation of cattle from the United States,
originally adopted as a sanitary precaution, will at an early day be relaxed as to their present
features of hardship and discrimination, so as to admit live cattle under due regulation of
their slaughter after landing. I am hopeful, too, of favorable change in the Belgian treatment
of our preserved and salted meats. The growth of direct trade between the two countries, not
alone for Belgian consumption and Belgian products, but by way of transit from and to other
continental states, has been both encouraging and beneficial. No effort will be spared to enlarge
its advantages by seeking the removal of needless impediments and by arrangements for increased
commercial exchanges.

The year's events in Central America deserve more than passing mention.

A menacing rupture between Costa Rica and Nicaragua was happily composed by the signature of
a convention between the parties, with the concurrence of the Guatemalan representative as
a mediator, the act being negotiated and signed on board the United States steamer Alert, then
lying in Central American waters. It is believed that the good offices of our envoy and of
the commander of that vessel contributed toward this gratifying outcome.

In my last annual message the situation was presented with respect to the diplomatic representation
of this Government in Central America created by the association of Nicaragua, Honduras, and
Salvador under the title of the Greater Republic of Central America, and the delegation of
their international functions to the Diet thereof. While the representative character of the
Diet was recognized by my predecessor and has been confirmed during my Administration by receiving
its accredited envoy and granting exequaturs to consuls commissioned under its authority, that
recognition was qualified by the distinct understanding that the responsibility of each of
the component sovereign Republics toward the United States remained wholly unaffected.

This proviso was needful inasmuch as the compact of the three Republics was at the outset an
association whereby certain representative functions were delegated to a tripartite commission
rather than a federation possessing centralized powers of government and administration. In
this view of their relation and of the relation of the United States to the several Republics,
a change in the representation of this country in Central America was neither recommended by
the Executive nor initiated by Congress, thus leaving one of our envoys accredited, as heretofore,
separately to two States of the Greater Republic, Nicaragua and Salvador, and to a third State,
Costa Rica, which was not a party to the compact, while our other envoy was similarly accredited
to a union State, Honduras, and a nonunion State, Guatemala. The result has been that the one
has presented credentials only to the President of Costa Rica, the other having been received
only by the Government of Guatemala.

Subsequently the three associated Republics entered into negotiations for taking the steps
forecast in the original compact. A convention of their delegates framed for them a federal
constitution under the name of the United States of Central America, and provided for a central
federal government and legislature. Upon ratification by the constituent States, the 1st of
November last was fixed for the new system to go into operation. Within a few weeks thereafter
the plan was severely tested by revolutionary movements arising, with a consequent demand for
unity of action on the part of the military power of the federal States to suppress them. Under
this strain the new union seems to have been weakened through the withdrawal of its more important
members. This Government was not officially advised of the installation of the federation and
has maintained an attitude of friendly expectancy, while in no wise relinquishing the position
held from the outset that the responsibilities of the several States toward us remained unaltered
by their tentative relations among themselves.

