The Life of William Carey, Shoemaker & Missionary

by

George Smith

PREFACE

On the death of William Carey In 1834 Dr. Joshua Marshman promised to write the Life of his
great colleague, with whom he had held almost daily converse since the beginning of the century,
but he survived too short a time to begin the work.  In 1836 the Rev. Eustace Carey anticipated
him by issuing what is little better than a selection of mutilated letters and journals made
at the request of the Committee of the Baptist Missionary Society.  It contains one passage
of value, however.  Dr. Carey once said to his nephew, whose design he seems to have suspected,
"Eustace, if after my removal any one should think it worth his while to write my Life, I will
give you a criterion by which you may judge of its correctness.  If he give me credit for being
a plodder he will describe me justly. Anything beyond this will be too much.  I can plod. 
I can persevere in any definite pursuit.  To this I owe everything."

In 1859 Mr. John Marshman, after his final return to England, published The Life and Times
of Carey, Marshman, and Ward, a valuable history and defence of the Serampore Mission, but
rather a biography of his father than of Carey.

When I first went to Serampore the great missionary had not been twenty years dead.  During
my long residence there as Editor of the Friend of India, I came to know, in most of its details,
the nature of the work done by Carey for India and for Christendom in the first third of the
century.  I began to collect such materials for his Biography as were to be found in the office,
the press, and the college, and among the Native Christians and Brahman pundits whom he had
influenced.  In addition to such materials and experience I have been favoured with the use
of many unpublished letters written by Carey or referring to him; for which courtesy I here
desire to thank Mrs. S. Carey, South Bank, Red Hill; Frederick George Carey, Esq., LL.B., of
Lincoln's Inn; and the Rev. Jonathan P. Carey of Tiverton.

My Biographies of Carey of Serampore, Henry Martyn, Duff of Calcutta, and Wilson of Bombay,
cover a period of nearly a century and a quarter, from 1761 to 1878.  They have been written
as contributions to that history of the Christian Church of India which one of its native sons
must some day attempt; and to the history of English-speaking peoples, whom the Foreign Missions
begun by Carey have made the rulers and civilisers of the non-Christian world.

CONTENTS

    I. CAREY'S COLLEGE
   II. THE BIRTH OF ENGLAND'S FOREIGN MISSIONS
  III. INDIA AS CAREY FOUND IT
   IV. SIX YEARS IN NORTH BENGAL--MISSIONARY AND INDIGO PLANTER
    V. THE NEW CRUSADE--SERAMPORE AND THE BROTHERHOOD
   VI. THE FIRST NATIVE CONVERTS AND CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS
  VII. CALCUTTA AND THE MISSION CENTRES FROM DELHI TO AMBOYNA
 VIII. CAREY'S FAMILY AND FRIENDS
   IX. PROFESSOR OF SANSKRIT, BENGALI, AND MARATHI
    X. THE WYCLIF OF THE EAST--BIBLE TRANSLATION
   XI. WHAT CAREY DID FOR LITERATURE AND FOR HUMANITY
  XII. WHAT CAREY DID FOR SCIENCE--FOUNDER OF THE AGRICULTURAL AND
       HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY OF INDIA
 XIII. CAREY'S IMMEDIATE INFLUENCE IN GREAT BRITAIN AND AMERICA
  XIV. CAREY AS AN EDUCATOR--THE FIRST CHRISTIAN COLLEGE IN THE EAST
   XV. CAREY'S CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOR THE PEOPLE OF INDIA
  XVI. CAREY'S LAST DAYS
       APPENDIX

LIFE OF WILLIAM CAREY, D.D.

CHAPTER I

CAREY'S COLLEGE

1761-1785

The Heart of England--The Weaver Carey who became a Peer, and the weaver who was father of
William Carey--Early training in Paulerspury--Impressions made by him on his sister--On his
companions and the villagers--His experience as son of the parish clerk--Apprenticed to a shoemaker
of Hackleton--Poverty--Famous shoemakers from Annianus and Crispin to Hans Sachs and Whittier--From
Pharisaism to Christ--The last shall be first--The dissenting preacher in the parish clerk's
home--He studies Latin, Greek and Hebrew, Dutch and French--The cobbler's shed is Carey's College.

William Carey, the first of her own children of the Reformation whom England sent forth as
a missionary to India, where he became the most extensive translator of the Bible and civiliser,
was the son of a weaver, and was himself a village shoemaker till he was twenty-eight years
of age.  He was born on the 17th August 1761, in the very midland of England, in the heart
of the district which had produced Shakspere, had fostered Wyclif and Hooker, had bred Fox
and Bunyan, and had for a time been the scene of the lesser lights of John Mason and Doddridge,
of John Newton and Thomas Scott.  William Cowper, the poet of missions, made the land his chosen
home, writing Hope and The Task in Olney, while the shoemaker was studying theology under Sutcliff
on the opposite side of the market-place. Thomas Clarkson, born a year before Carey, was beginning
his assaults on the slave-trade by translating into English his Latin essay on the day-star
of African liberty when the shoemaker, whom no university knew, was writing his Enquiry into
the Obligations of Christians to use means for the Conversion of the Heathens.

William Carey bore a name which had slowly fallen into forgetfulness after services to the
Stewarts, with whose cause it had been identified.  Professor Stephens, of Copenhagen, traces
it to the Scando-Anglian Car, CAER or CARE, which became a place-name as CAR-EY. Among scores
of neighbours called William, William of Car-ey would soon sink into Carey, and this would
again become the family name.  In Denmark the name Caròe is common.  The oldest English instance
is the Cariet who coined money in London for Æthelred II. in 1016.  Certainly the name, through
its forms of Crew, Carew, Carey, and Cary, still prevails on the Irish coast--from which depression
of trade drove the family first to Yorkshire, then to the Northamptonshire village of Yelvertoft,
and finally to Paulerspury, farther south--as well as over the whole Danegelt from Lincolnshire
to Devonshire.  If thus there was Norse blood in William Carey it came out in his persistent
missionary daring, and it is pleasant even to speculate on the possibility of such an origin
in one who was all his Indian life indebted to Denmark for the protection which alone made
his career possible.

The Careys who became famous in English history sprang from Devon. For two and a half centuries,
from the second Richard to the second Charles, they gave statesmen and soldiers, scholars and
bishops, to the service of their country.  Henry Carey, first cousin of Queen Elizabeth, was
the common ancestor of two ennobled houses long since extinct--the Earls of Dover and the Earls
of Monmouth.  A third peerage won by the Careys has been made historic by the patriotic counsels
and self-sacrificing fate of Viscount Falkland, whose representative was Governor of Bombay
for a time.  Two of the heroic Falkland's descendants, aged ladies, addressed a pathetic letter
to Parliament about the time that the great missionary died, praying that they might not be
doomed to starvation by being deprived of a crown pension of £80 a year.  The older branch
of the Careys also had fallen on evil times, and it became extinct while the future missionary
was yet four years old.  The seventh lord was a weaver when he succeeded to the title, and
he died childless.  The eighth was a Dutchman who had to be naturalised, and he was the last.
The Careys fell lower still.  One of them bore to the brilliant and reckless Marquis of Halifax,
Henry Carey, who wrote one of the few English ballads that live.  Another, the poet's granddaughter,
was the mother of Edmund Kean, and he at first was known by her name on the stage.

At that time when the weaver became the lord the grandfather of the missionary was parish clerk
and first schoolmaster of the village of Paulerspury, eleven miles south of Northampton, and
near the ancient posting town of Towcester, on the old Roman road from London to Chester. 
The free school was at the east or "church end" of the village, which, after crossing the old
Watling Street, straggles for a mile over a sluggish burn to the "Pury end."  One son, Thomas,
had enlisted and was in Canada.  Edmund Carey, the second, set up the loom on which he wove
the woollen cloth known as "tammy," in a two-storied cottage.  There his eldest child, WILLIAM,
was born, and lived for six years till his father was appointed schoolmaster, when the family
removed to the free schoolhouse.  The cottage was demolished in 1854 by one Richard Linnell,
who placed on the still meaner structure now occupying the site the memorial slab that guides
many visitors to the spot.  The schoolhouse, in which William Carey spent the eight most important
years of his childhood till he was fourteen, and the school made way for the present pretty
buildings.

The village surroundings and the country scenery coloured the whole of the boy's after life,
and did much to make him the first agricultural improver and naturalist of Bengal, which he
became. The lordship of Pirie, as it was called by Gitda, its Saxon owner, was given by the
Conqueror, with much else, to his natural son, William Peverel, as we see from the Domesday
survey.  His descendants passed it on to Robert de Paveli, whence its present name, but in
Carey's time it was held by the second Earl Bathurst, who was Lord Chancellor.  Up to the very
schoolhouse came the royal forest of Whittlebury, its walks leading north to the woods of Salcey,
of Yardley Chase and Rockingham, from the beeches which give Buckingham its name.  Carey must
have often sat under the Queen's Oak, still venerable in its riven form, where Edward IV.,
when hunting, first saw Elizabeth, unhappy mother of the two princes murdered in the Tower.
The silent robbery of the people's rights called "inclosures" has done much, before and since
Carey's time, to sweep away or shut up the woodlands.  The country may be less beautiful, while
the population has grown so that Paulerspury has now nearly double the eight hundred inhabitants
of a century ago. But its oolitic hills, gently swelling to above 700 feet, and the valleys
of the many rivers which flow from this central watershed, west and east, are covered with
fat vegetation almost equally divided between grass and corn, with green crops.  The many large
estates are rich in gardens and orchards.  The farmers, chiefly on small holdings, are famous
for their shorthorns and Leicester sheep. Except for the rapidly-developing production of iron
from the Lias, begun by the Romans, there is but one manufacture--that of shoes. It is now
centred by modern machinery and labour arrangements in Northampton itself, which has 24,000
shoemakers, and in the other towns, but a century ago the craft was common to every hamlet.
For botany and agriculture, however, Northamptonshire was the finest county in England, and
young Carey had trodden many a mile of it, as boy and man, before he left home for ever for Bengal.

Two unfinished autobiographical sketches, written from India at the request of Fuller and of
Ryland, and letters of his youngest sister Mary, his favourite "Polly" who survived him, have
preserved for us in still vivid characters the details of the early training of William Carey.
He was the eldest of five children.  He was the special care of their grandmother, a woman
of a delicate nature and devout habits, who closed her sad widowhood in the weaver-son's cottage.
Encompassed by such a living influence the grandson spent his first six years. Already the
child unconsciously showed the eager thirst for knowledge, and perseverance in attaining his
object, which made him chiefly what he became.  His mother would often be awoke in the night
by the pleasant lisping of a voice "casting accompts; so intent was he from childhood in the
pursuit of knowledge.  Whatever he began he finished; difficulties never seemed to discourage
his mind."  On removal to the ancestral schoolhouse the boy had a room to himself.  His sister
describes it as full of insects stuck in every corner that he might observe their progress.
His many birds he entrusted to her care when he was from home.  In this picture we see the
exact foreshadowing of the man. "Though I often used to kill his birds by kindness, yet when
he saw my grief for it he always indulged me with the pleasure of serving them again; and often
took me over the dirtiest roads to get at a plant or an insect.  He never walked out, I think,
when quite a boy, without observation on the hedges as he passed; and when he took up a plant
of any kind he always observed it with care.  Though I was but a child I well remember his
pursuits.  He always seemed in earnest in his recreations as well as in school.  He was generally
one of the most active in all the amusements and recreations that boys in general pursue. 
He was always beloved by the boys about his own age."  To climb a certain tree was the object
of their ambition; he fell often in the attempt, but did not rest till he had succeeded.  His
Uncle Peter was a gardener in the same village, and gave him his first lessons in botany and
horticulture.  He soon became responsible for his father's official garden, till it was the
best kept in the neighbourhood. Wherever after that he lived, as boy or man, poor or in comfort,
William Carey made and perfected his garden, and always for others, until he created at Serampore
the botanical park which for more than half a century was unique in Southern Asia.

We have in a letter from the Manse, Paulerspury, a tradition of the impression made on the
dull rustics by the dawning genius of the youth whom they but dimly comprehended.  He went
amongst them under the nickname of Columbus, and they would say, "Well, if you won't play,
preach us a sermon," which he would do.  Mounting on an old dwarf witch-elm about seven feet
high, where several could sit, he would hold forth.  This seems to have been a resort of his
for reading, his favourite occupation.  The same authority tells how, when suffering toothache,
he allowed his companions to drag the tooth from his head with a violent jerk, by tying around
it a string attached to a wheel used to grind malt, to which they gave a sharp turn.

The boy's own peculiar room was a little library as well as museum of natural history.  He
possessed a few books, which indeed were many for those days, but he borrowed more from the
whole country-side. Recalling the eight years of his intellectual apprenticeship till he was
fourteen, from the serene height of his missionary standard, he wrote long after:--"I chose
to read books of science, history, voyages, etc., more than any others.  Novels and plays always
disgusted me, and I avoided them as much as I did books of religion, and perhaps from the same
motive.  I was better pleased with romances, and this circumstance made me read the Pilgrim's
Progress with eagerness, though to no purpose."  The new era, of which he was to be the aggressive
spiritual representative from Christendom, had not dawned.  Walter Scott was ten years his
junior. Captain Cook had not discovered the Sandwich Islands, and was only returning from the
second of his three voyages while Carey was still at school.  The church services and the watchfulness
of his father supplied the directly moral training which his grandmother had begun.

The Paulerspury living of St. James is a valuable rectory in the gift of New College, Oxford.
Originally built in Early English, and rebuilt in 1844, the church must have presented a still
more venerable appearance a century ago than it does now, with its noble tower in the Perpendicular,
and chancel in the Decorated style, dominating all the county.  Then, as still, effigies of
a Paveli and his wife, and of Sir Arthur Throckmorton and his wife recumbent head to head,
covered a large altar-tomb in the chancel, and with the Bathurst and other monuments called
forth first the fear and then the pride of the parish clerk's eldest son.  In those days the
clerk had just below the pulpit the desk from which his sonorous "Amen" sounded forth, while
his family occupied a low gallery rising from the same level up behind the pulpit. There the
boys of the free school also could be under the master's eye, and with instruments of music
like those of King David, but now banished from even village churches, would accompany him
in the doggerel strains of Sternhold and Hopkins, immortalised by Cowper.  To the far right
the boys could see and long for the ropes under the tower, in which the bell-ringers of his
day, as of Bunyan's not long before, delighted. The preaching of the time did nothing more
for young Carey than for the rest of England and Scotland, whom the parish church had not driven
into dissent or secession.  But he could not help knowing the Prayer-Book, and especially its
psalms and lessons, and he was duly confirmed.  The family training, too, was exceptionally
scriptural, though not evangelical. "I had many stirrings of mind occasioned by being often
obliged to read books of a religious character; and, having been accustomed from my infancy
to read the Scriptures, I had a considerable acquaintance therewith, especially with the historical
parts."  The first result was to make him despise dissenters.  But, undoubtedly, this eldest
son of the schoolmaster and the clerk of the parish had at fourteen received an education from
parents, nature, and books which, with his habits of observation, love of reading, and perseverance,
made him better instructed than most boys of fourteen far above the peasant class to which
he belonged.

Buried in this obscure village in the dullest period of the dullest of all centuries, the boy
had no better prospect before him than that of a weaver or labourer, or possibly a schoolmaster
like one of his uncles in the neighbouring town of Towcester.  When twelve years of age, with
his uncle there, he might have formed one of the crowd which listened to John Wesley, who,
in 1773 and then aged seventy, visited the prosperous posting town.  Paulerspury could indeed
boast of one son, Edward Bernard, D.D., who, two centuries before, had made for himself a name
in Oxford, where he was Savilian Professor of Astronomy.  But Carey was not a Scotsman, and
therefore the university was not for such as he.  Like his school-fellows, he seemed born to
the English labourer's fate of five shillings a week, and the poorhouse in sickness and old
age.  From this, in the first instance, he was saved by a disease which affected his face and
hands most painfully whenever he was long exposed to the sun.  For seven years he had failed
to find relief.  His attempt at work in the field were for two years followed by distressing
agony at night. He was now sixteen, and his father sought out a good man who would receive
him as apprentice to the shoemaking trade.  The man was not difficult to find, in the hamlet
of Hackleton, nine miles off, in the person of one Clarke Nichols.  The lad afterwards described
him as "a strict churchman and, what I thought, a very moral man.  It is true he sometimes
drank rather too freely, and generally employed me in carrying out goods on the Lord's Day
morning; but he was an inveterate enemy to lying, a vice to which I was awfully addicted."
The senior apprentice was a dissenter, and the master and his boys gave much of the talk over
their work to disputes upon religious subjects.  Carey "had always looked upon dissenters with
contempt. I had, moreover, a share of pride sufficient for a thousand times my knowledge; I
therefore always scorned to have the worst in an argument, and the last word was assuredly
mine.  I also made up in positive assertion what was wanting in argument, and generally came
off with triumph.  But I was often convinced afterwards that although I had the last word my
antagonist had the better of the argument, and on that account felt a growing uneasiness and
stings of conscience gradually increasing."  The dissenting apprentice was soon to be the first
to lead him to Christ.

William Carey was a shoemaker during the twelve years of his life from sixteen to twenty-eight,
till he went to Leicester.  Poverty, which the grace of God used to make him a preacher also
from his eighteenth year, compelled him to work with his hands in leather all the week, and
to tramp many a weary mile to Northampton and Kettering carrying the product of his labour.
At one time, when minister of Moulton, he kept a school by day, made or cobbled shoes by night,
and preached on Sunday.  So Paul had made tents of his native Cilician goatskin in the days
when infant Christianity was chased from city to city, and the cross was a reproach only less
bitter, however, than evangelical dissent in Christian England in the eighteenth century. 
The providence which made and kept young Carey so long a shoemaker, put him in the very position
in which he could most fruitfully receive and nurse the sacred fire that made him the most
learned scholar and Bible translator of his day in the East. The same providence thus linked
him to the earliest Latin missionaries of Alexandria, of Asia Minor, and of Gaul, who were
shoemakers, and to a succession of scholars and divines, poets and critics, reformers and philanthropists,
who have used the shoemaker's life to become illustrious.[1] St. Mark chose for his successor,
as first bishop of Alexandria, that Annianus whom he had been the means of converting to Christ
when he found him at the cobbler's stall.  The Talmud commemorates the courage and the wisdom
of "Rabbi Jochanan, the shoemaker," whose learning soon after found a parallel in Carey's.
Like Annianus, "a poor shoemaker named Alexander, despised in the world but great in the sight
of God, who did honour to so exalted a station in the Church," became famous as Bishop of Comana
in Cappadocia, as saint, preacher, and missionary-martyr.  Soon after there perished in the
persecutions of Diocletian, at Soissons, the two missionary brothers whose name of Crispin
has ever since been gloried in by the trade, which they chose at once as a means of livelihood
and of helping their poor converts.  The Hackleton apprentice was still a child when the great
Goethe was again adding to the then artificial literature of his country his own true predecessor,
Hans Sachs, the shoemaker of Nürnberg, the friend of Luther, the meistersinger of the Reformation.
And it was another German shoemaker, Boehme, whose exalted theosophy as expounded by William
Law became one link in the chain that drew Carey to Christ, as it influenced Wesley and Whitefield,
Samuel Johnson and Coleridge.  George Fox was only nineteen when, after eight years' service
with a shoemaker in Drayton, Leicestershire, not far from Carey's county, he heard the voice
from heaven which sent him forth in 1643 to preach righteousness, temperance, and judgment
to come, till Cromwell sought converse with him, and the Friends became a power among men.

Carlyle has, in characteristic style, seized on the true meaning that was in the man when he
made to himself a suit of leather and became the modern hero of Sartor Resartus.  Thirty-six
years after Fox had begun to wear his leathern doublet he directed all Friends everywhere that
had Indians or blacks to preach the Gospel to them.

But it would be too long to tell the list of workers in what has been called the gentle craft,
whom the cobbler's stall, with its peculiar opportunities for rhythmic meditation, hard thinking,
and oft harder debating, has prepared for the honours of literature and scholarship, of philanthropy
and reform.  To mention only Carey's contemporaries, the career of these men ran parallel at
home with his abroad--Thomas Shillitoe, who stood before magistrates, bishops, and such sovereigns
as George III. and IV. and the Czar Alexander I. in the interests of social reform; and John
Pounds, the picture of whom as the founder of ragged schools led Thomas Guthrie, when he stumbled
on it in an inn in Anstruther, to do the same Christlike work in Scotland.  Coleridge, who
when at Christ's Hospital was ambitious to be a shoemaker's apprentice, was right when he declared
that shoemakers had given to the world a larger number of eminent men than any other handicraft.
Whittier's own early experience in Massachusetts fitted him to be the poet-laureate of the
craft which for some years he adorned.  His Songs of Labour, published in 1850, contain the
best English lines on shoemakers since Shakspere put into the mouth of King Henry V. the address
on the eve of Agincourt, which begins: "This day is called the feast of Crispin."

The confessions of Carey, made in the spiritual humility and self-examination of his later
life, form a parallel to the Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, the little classic of
John Bunyan second only to his Pilgrim's Progress.  The young Pharisee, who entered Hackleton
with such hate in his heart to dissenters that he would have destroyed their meeting-place,
who practised "lying, swearing, and other sins," gradually yielded so far to his brother apprentice's
importunity as to leave these off, to try to pray sometimes when alone, to attend church three
times a day, and to visit the dissenting prayer-meeting.  Like the zealot who thought to do
God service by keeping the whole law, Carey lived thus for a time, "not doubting but this would
produce ease of mind and make me acceptable to God." What revealed him to himself was an incident
which he tells in language recalling at once Augustine and one of the subtlest sketches of
George Eliot, in which the latter uses her half-knowledge of evangelical faith to stab the
very truth that delivered Paul and Augustine, Bunyan and Carey, from the antinomianism of the
Pharisee:--

"A circumstance which I always reflect on with a mixture of horror and gratitude occurred about
this time, which, though greatly to my dishonour, I must relate.  It being customary in that
part of the country for apprentices to collect Christmas boxes [donations] from the tradesmen
with whom their masters have dealings, I was permitted to collect these little sums.  When
I applied to an ironmonger, he gave me the choice of a shilling or a sixpence; I of course
chose the shilling, and putting it in my pocket, went away.  When I had got a few shillings
my next care was to purchase some little articles for myself, I have forgotten what.  But then,
to my sorrow, I found that my shilling was a brass one.  I paid for the things which I bought
by using a shilling of my master's.  I now found that I had exceeded my stock by a few pence.
I expected severe reproaches from my master, and therefore came to the resolution to declare
strenuously that the bad money was his.  I well remember the struggles of mind which I had
on this occasion, and that I made this deliberate sin a matter of prayer to God as I passed
over the fields towards home!  I there promised that, if God would but get me clearly over
this, or, in other words, help me through with the theft, I would certainly for the future
leave off all evil practices; but this theft and consequent lying appeared to me so necessary,
that they could not be dispensed with.

"A gracious God did not get me safe through.  My master sent the other apprentice to investigate
the matter.  The ironmonger acknowledged the giving me the shilling, and I was therefore exposed
to shame, reproach, and inward remorse, which preyed upon my mind for a considerable time.
I at this time sought the Lord, perhaps much more earnestly than ever, but with shame and fear.
I was quite ashamed to go out, and never, till I was assured that my conduct was not spread
over the town, did I attend a place of worship.

"I trust that, under these circumstances, I was led to see much more of myself than I had ever
done before, and to seek for mercy with greater earnestness.  I attended prayer-meetings only,
however, till February 10, 1779, which being appointed a day of fasting and prayer, I attended
worship on that day.  Mr. Chater [congregationalist] of Olney preached, but from what text
I have forgotten.  He insisted much on following Christ entirely, and enforced his exhortation
with that passage, 'Let us therefore go out unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.'--Heb.
xiii. 13.  I think I had a desire to follow Christ; but one idea occurred to my mind on hearing
those words which broke me off from the Church of England.  The idea was certainly very crude,
but useful in bringing me from attending a lifeless, carnal ministry to one more evangelical.
I concluded that the Church of England, as established by law, was the camp in which all were
protected from the scandal of the cross, and that I ought to bear the reproach of Christ among
the dissenters; and accordingly I always afterwards attended divine worship among them."

At eighteen Carey was thus emptied of self and there was room for Christ.  In a neighbouring
village he consorted much for a time with some followers of William Law, who had not long before
passed away in a village in the neighbourhood, and select passages from whose writings the
Moravian minister, Francis Okely, of Northampton, had versified. These completed the negative
process. "I felt ruined and helpless." Then to his spiritual eyes, purged of self, there appeared
the Crucified One; and to his spiritual intelligence there was given the Word of God. The change
was that wrought on Paul by a Living Person. It converted the hypocritical Pharisee into the
evangelical preacher; it turned the vicious peasant into the most self-denying saint; it sent
the village shoemaker far off to the Hindoos.

But the process was slow; it had been so even in Paul's case.  Carey found encouragement in
intercourse with some old Christians in Hackleton, and he united with a few of them, including
his fellow-apprentice, in forming a congregational church.  The state of the parish may be
imagined from its recent history.  Hackleton is part of Piddington, and the squire had long
appropriated the living of £300 a year, the parsonage, the glebe, and all tithes, sending his
house minister "at times" to do duty.  A Certificate from Northamptonshire, against the pluralities
and other such scandals, published in 1641, declared that not a child or servant in Hackleton
or Piddington could say the Lord's Prayer.  Carey sought the preaching of Doddridge's successor
at Northampton, of a Baptist minister at Road, and of Scott the commentator, then at Ravenstone.
He had found peace, but was theologically "inquisitive and unsatisfied."  Fortunately, like
Luther, he "was obliged to draw all from the Bible alone."

