 Nay more, the
unfortunate pony, I understand, has been heard to complain that this same car of justice, which
he finds it so hard to put in motion on some occasions, can on others run fast enough down
hill of its own accord, dragging his reluctant self backwards along with it, when anything
can be done of service to Squire Inglewood's quondam friends. And then Mr. Jobson talks big
about reporting his principal to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if it were
not for his particular regard and friendship for Mr. Inglewood and his family."

As Miss Vernon concluded this whimsical description, we found ourselves in front of Inglewood
Place, a handsome, though old-fashioned building. which showed the consequence of the family.

CHAPTER EIGHTH.

               "Sir," quoth the Lawyer, "not to flatter ye,
                   You have as good and fair a battery
                As heart could wish, and need not shame
                   The proudest man alive to claim."
                                              Butler.

Our horses were taken by a servant in Sir Hildebrand's livery, whom we found in the court-yard,
and we entered the house. In the entrance-hall I was somewhat surprised, and my fair companion
still more so, when we met Rashleigh Osbaldistone, who could not help showing equal wonder
at our rencontre.

"Rashleigh," said Miss Vernon, without giving him time to ask any question, "you have heard
of Mr. Francis Osbaldistone's affair, and you have been talking to the Justice about it?"

"Certainly," said Rashleigh, composedly--"it has been my business here.-- I have been endeavouring,"
he said, with a bow to me, "to render my cousin what service I can. But I am sorry to meet
him here."

"As a friend and relation, Mr. Osbaldistone, you ought to have been sorry to have met me anywhere
else, at a time when the charge of my reputation required me to be on this spot as soon as
possible."

"True; but judging from what my father said, I should have supposed a short retreat into Scotland--just
till matters should be smoothed over in a quiet way"--

I answered with warmth, "That I had no prudential measures to observe, and desired to have
nothing smoothed over;--on the contrary, I was come to inquire into a rascally calumny, which
I was determined to probe to the bottom."

"Mr. Francis Osbaldistone is an innocent man, Rashleigh," said Miss Vernon, "and he demands
an investigation of the charge against him, and I intend to support him in it."

"You do, my pretty cousin?--I should think, now, Mr. Francis Osbaldistone was likely to be
as effectually, and rather more delicately, supported by my presence than by yours."

"Oh, certainly; but two heads are better than one, you know."

"Especially such a head as yours, my pretty Die," advancing and taking her hand with a familiar
fondness, which made me think him fifty times uglier than nature had made him. She led him,
however, a few steps aside; they conversed in an under voice, and she appeared to insist upon
some request which he was unwilling or unable to comply with. I never saw so strong a contrast
betwixt the expression of two faces. Miss Vernon's, from being earnest, became angry; her eyes
and cheeks became more animated, her colour mounted, she clenched her little hand, and stamping
on the ground with her tiny foot, seemed to listen with a mixture of contempt and indignation
to the apologies, which, from his look of civil deference, his composed and respectful smile,
his body rather drawing back than advanced, and other signs of look and person, I concluded
him to be pouring out at her feet. At length she flung away from him, with "I will have it so."

"It is not in my power--there is no possibility of it.--Would you think it, Mr. Osbaldistone?"
said he, addressing me--

"You are not mad?" said she, interrupting him.

"Would you think it?" said he, without attending to her hint--"Miss Vernon insists, not only
that I know your innocence (of which, indeed, it is impossible for any one to be more convinced),
but that I must also be acquainted with the real perpetrators of the outrage on this fellow--if
indeed such an outrage has been committed. Is this reasonable, Mr. Osbaldistone?"

"I will not allow any appeal to Mr. Osbaldistone, Rashleigh," said the young lady; "he does
not know, as I do, the incredible extent and accuracy of your information on all points."

"As I am a gentleman, you do me more honour than I deserve."

"Justice, Rashleigh--only justice:--and it is only justice which I expect at your hands."

"You are a tyrant, Diana," he answered, with a sort of sigh--"a capricious tyrant, and rule
your friends with a rod of iron. Still, however, it shall be as you desire. But you ought not
to be here--you know you ought not;--you must return with me."

Then turning from Diana, who seemed to stand undecided, he came up to me in the most friendly
manner, and said, "Do not doubt my interest in what regards you, Mr. Osbaldistone. Then you can they attack
in a better position and so destroy the whole brood, without noble blood flows to shed. "

The constable of Nesle and several other men were named this advice well, but Robert was blind
rage. He would not hear of it, and commanded by John Barlas silent.

With all these preparations, the time had passed. It was already seven clock in the morning;
the French cavalry was now about two-spin throw from the enemies. Between Protect the French and
the slingers of the Mosscherbach Vlaemen was such that they each could not get closer and both
sides remained only a few people dead.

The Seneschal d'Artois was Rudolf of Nesle, the leader of the first family, the order to attack.

The first term of the rider stormed forward in impetuous heat and blew up the Mosscherbach. But here
they sank up to the saddle in the mud. One rode the rest of the pile; the front fell off their
horses and were taken by the death or suffocated Vlaemen in the mud. Who could come out, returned
in great haste and did not dare to still further rash to plunge into
danger.

Meanwhile, the Flemish army stood motionless behind the second stream and saw the course in silence
with.

When the constable Rudolf noted that this was impossible for its riders to get through, ran
Mr d'Artois, and he cried:

"Verily I say unto you, count, we put our people in grave danger if
we do in the Bach hunt, not a single horse will not or can over.

Let us love our enemies lure of the camp; believe me, you put us all at risk here! "

But the commander was too much under the spell of Wrath and anger, than that he have this Council
had taken; he shouted angrily:

"Constable, which is a Lombard-Rat! Are you afraid of this bunch wolves or bears your their fur?
"

He wanted to indicate that the constable loved the Vlaemen and perhaps France was designed to promote
damage. Deeply offended by this reference, Rudolf anger flared up in light and then it rode
closer to the commander, and answered in the highest zeal:

"You doubted my courage? You ridiculed me? So I ask you: Do you dare to me standing Foot, only
to follow the crowds of the enemy? I will bring you to the extent that your you shall never
return! "

Several other knights threw themselves between the warring leaders and achieved by persuasion,
that they calmed down. Incidentally, it also meant the bailiff that a transition to the stream
would be impossible. But he would not hear of it and told Rudolf to advance again.

Carried away by anger now stormed the constable with his boisterous crowds on the Flemish Army
go. But when they arrived at the stream, rushed all the riders of the first member of the one
crushed the other, and more than five hundred died in the confusion.

For the Vlaemen showered her with such a mass of stones that they helmet and armor was shattered
on the body. When Mr. d'Artois saw it, he was forced to recall Rudolf troops. Only with great difficulty
they could bring back in the ranks, for the most terrible Confusion reigned among them. Meanwhile,
John had found a job by Barlas, where the first Bach could wade through more convenient. There
he was with two thousand crossbowmen passed over. When he had thus reached out to pasture,
where the Flemish had slingers, he put his people in a densely packed clusters and had such
a vast amount of iron Arrows on the enemy, throw the air were darkened it. Very many were
Vlaemen dead or wounded to the ground, and the French gained considerable space shooter.

Mr. Salomon van Sevecote had even the spin of a fallen man guild included and his, encouraged by his
example, but an iron arrow pierced the front of his helmet, and he
fell down dead.

When the Vlaemen their leader and so many of their comrades drop
saw and had no more pebbles, they turned slowly back to her army.

Only one hurler of Veurne was the middle of the lawn, alone, as if he wanted to brave the arrows
of the French. Motionless he stood, although the arrows on his head away and flew around him.
Slowly, he finally put a heavy Pebble in his sling and took the victim
that he wanted to meet, just in the eye.

After Spin a few times he was swinging hard, he let go the one end, and the Pebble flew screaming
through the air.

A painful cry escaped from the breast of John Barlas' and lifeless he fell with his head smashed
to the ground.

So the leaders of the two contending hosts were in the same attack.

Thereby protecting the French fought with such fury that they threw away their bows, with a
sword in his hand the Flemish slingers and lags up to the second Stream which flowed from the
Flemish camp pursued.

When Mr. Valepaiële, which stood at Robert d'Artois, noted the progress of the shooters, he cried:

"Oh,
Seneschal, the bad foot soldiers will achieve so much, that it alone be the glory Harvesting of the
fight. If they disperse the enemy, what remains to us here knights left to do? It is a shame! We
stand here as if we were afraid to fight. "

"Montjoie Saint-Denis," cried Robert, "Forward, constable! Attacks! "

In this command, all the knights were the first Division of the horses the reins and galloped forward
in disorder; everyone wanted to be the first to do honor to the shock. met only by this thought,
they rode the archers on the pile and drilled own people.

Hundreds of foot soldiers wrestled under the hooves of the horses, which they trod, with death,
and the rest fled in all directions like this from the battlefield.

So did the knights destroy the advantage gained, leaving the Flemish slingers Time to rally
again. The cry of woe of the fallen was terrible. The unfortunate Ritter, over which stormed
a whole host of other knights called, but they may not . Crush But there was no stopping. Already
the voices of the first casualties in the last Death rattle dies,
those who had overrun it were, in their turn by the other crushed,
so that the cry of woe was no end.

The rearmost troops, now believed that the battle had begun, now put the spurs to the horses
in the course and drove down to the brook, on whose banks was going on that. Most of them increased
only the victims, who inflicted their general giddiness.

Thus came incomprehensible to many Knights and foot soldiers died.

The Vlaemen had not yet stirred. Still she stood motionless and silent in a long line there and
watched this spectacle with amazement. The Flemish leader were received with much wisdom and
experience to work. Many others would this moment to a have held for attack rates, might be
pushed forward over the stream and the French attacked. But Gwijde and Jan Borluut, the Council followed
the former wanted to Advantages of their position to give it not
for a momentary gain.

While there was continued in the army, the largest silence so that all commands could be heard.

Finally
both rivers with corpses of men and horses were filled, and it was successful delivered over long
Rudolf of Nesle, with about a thousand horsemen. When he in crowded Series had set up, he
cried:

"France, France! Forward, forward! "

Courageous and special trepidation he attacked the center of the army on the Vlaemen. They had their
long Goedendag with one end dug into the earth and took the French rider with the head of this formidable
weapon as. A host of enemies fell out of this shock the saddle, and was soon stabbed. But
Godfrey of Brabant, who is now with his nine hundred heavy cavalry had come over the brook, the
crowd attacked William of Jülich with such force that he threw the
first three members to the ground and the Flemish order of battle
broke through.

Now ensued a terrible struggle.

The French rider had thrown away their spears and cut with their terrible battle swords to Vlaemen.
The fought back bravely with clubs and battle axes and also killed some riders, but the advantage
remained on the part of Godfrey of Brabant: his men had been to very many around the Vlaemen
stretched her to the ground, and in the Flemish line of battle there lay a wide gap. By This
immediately broke all the French, who could get across the creek and attacked those Flemish
part of the army in the back of. This change was for the Vlaemen a fateful mistake. As the enemy
assailed from the front and back of it, it lacked space to their Goedendag to use. So they were forced
to defend itself with battle axes, maces or swords, and again for the French rider had great
advantages. Now they could from the top hew down slightly on the Vlaemen and split almost with
every beat of one's head or cut down a limb from his body.

Wilhelm of Jülich fought like a lion. He stood alone with his armor-bearer and Philipp Hofstade
midst of thirty enemies who wanted to rob his banner, but all arms,
which had stretched out then were dropped under his sword.

In this moment of Mertelet Artur was a Norman knight, with a considerable
Horsemen of the creek and ran in full trot on to Wilhelm of Julich.

The intervention These parties had to aggravate the situation of Vlaemen still, for now, the
superiority of the Enemies too large, the attack irresistible. When William the Norman to face
flag was, he drove his horse and fetched up to it and precipitated the spear to the standard-bearer
to pierce. But Philip saw Hofstade of it, pushed his way through some French Foot soldiers stormed
through and against Mertelet. The impact of the two knights was so
great that they are mutually pierced.

The two fighters and their horses remained motionless are, as if suddenly their passion would
be cool. One might have thought that they each other carefully considered, and she expressed even
with the whole weight of her Body on the spear, as though it were
malicious pleasure the enemy wanted to torture and worse.

But that did not last long: soon made Mertelets horse movement, and
the bodies of both Knights fell from the saddle to the ground.

As was Mr. Jan van Renesse, who was on the right wing held, in which risk Wilhelm of Jülich
floated, he left his seat, ran behind the battle line and attacked
with Breydel and his butchers the French of the page.

Nothing could withstand such people. With bare chest they rushed towards each weapon and received
the death bite or strike which they met, without even wipe away his head. These men dared
to it, in fact, to face death, his jeer.

Had dropped as well as everything under their feet as soon as they
appeared, they cut with their axes, the horses brought from the feet,
so the Knights to fall and split his head.

A few moments after they were Wilhelm came to the aid of Julich, was the battleground cleaned
in this way, that only about twenty French left behind the battle line, including Godfrey
of Brabant, who fought for the enemy's language and kinsmen.

When Mr. van Renesse noticed him, he called to him:

»Gottfried, Gottfried! Watch out, you're going to die! "

"You said yourself," said Gottfried, by Mr. Jan a huge blow replied to the head. But the sword wielded
by a strong turn from the bottom up and struck him so strongly against the chin, that Gottfried
fell from the saddle.

Soon fell eight p.m. Fleischer on him, and he received twenty wounds,
of which even the lowest was fatal.

Meanwhile, Jan Breydel with some of his men deep into the enemy line
had invaded and carved until he had won the Standard of Brabant.

When he was with her passes with continued fencing up to the line of battle, he tore them to
pieces, threw away the stock and said:

"Shame, shame about the traitor!"

The Brabant wanted to avenge this travesty, they attacked the enemy with increased anger and made
incredible efforts to rip the banner of William and retaliation. But the Flag-winning Jan Ferrand
fought against all those who came too close. Four times he was on the ground cast, and four times
he was with the standard again, although it over with Wounds were covered.

William of Jülich had already stretched a vast French at his feet. Each Impact of his giant sword,
a traditional enemy to death.

With all these huge Efforts exhausted and injured by blows everywhere, he poured the blood from
the nose and mouth. He turned pale and felt like he ran out of power. Full of anger, he pulled
in behind the line of battle back to relax a little.

Jan de Vlamijnck, his squire, triggered the belt his harness and took off his arms so he could breathe
more freely.

During William's absence, the French had recovered some space, which seemed Vlaemen to want to retreat.
When William realized that he lent his grief by desperate Sue expression. Thereupon Jan de Vlamijnck
quickly devised a cunning trick of the familiar Bravery of his master testified. It put on William
weapons, threw himself in the midst of the Enemies and exclaimed:

"Back, ye men of France! Here William is again of Julich! "

At the same time he struck bravely to the enemy, and even threw some
of them to the ground.

The others drew back and let so the members time to close again.

Rudolf of Nesle had with the core of his rider on the five thousand Genter of the Lord Borluut
overthrown. Fearlessly, the courageous Frenchman tried to break through this crowd; three times
the Ghent had him beaten back with loss of many warriors, without any their limbs broke. January
Borluut considered that it would be a great disadvantage when this Location moved on Rudolf's
people to attack, and so he devised another means. He took three of his limbs and most united behind
them quickly to two new factions, which he left sets up the battle line: with the one end they
were right behind the army, with the other deep in the field behind
the battle line.

Now he ordered the central department his troops, which was located in the space between the two
new hosts, they should at first attack of the French retreat.

Rudolf of Nesle, who had brought his cavalry back in the ranks broke, and again compared to
the Ghent. Immediately backed away, the average department. The French supposed, they had
broken through the battle and brought the joyful cry: "Noël, Noël! Victory, victory! "

They urged all in the gap and hoped to attack the army in the back
and down going.

But this they succeeded not, all they found a wall of spears and battle axes. January Borluut left
forward waving the two wings of his troops, his five thousands of genetic tests formed a circle,
and so he joined the network in which he held the thousand French prisoners. Now began a horrible
massacre, a quarter of an hour was cut, beaten, punched and kicked, not that you could see who gave
or who won. People and horses undercut each other, screaming, moaning and panting, they heard and
saw nothing - terrible the blood flowed.

Rudolf of Nesle fought long and covered with wounds covered with the blood of his over the corpses,
and his death was inevitable. When Jan Borluut which was held, he felt warm Sympathy with the heroic
knights and cried to him:

"Surrender, Mr. Rudolph, I would not like to see you die!"

Rudolf was through anger and despair all come out of his mind, he understood Borluut words well,
and perhaps a feeling of gratitude welled up in his heart. But the accusation of Compliance
with the enemy, which had raised the bailiff Robert against him was his so bitter near gone,
that he no longer wanted to live. He waved his hand as when he called out in January Borluut a last
farewell, and killed two of Ghent.

Finally, he fell from a club hit on the head, next to the lifeless body of his brother down.
Many a knight who was thrown from his horse, wanted to lay down their arms, but you heard
not sure, not one escaped.

While this carnage Borluut carried troops, was not in the whole battle line less fought violently.
Strokes the cry: "Noël, Noël, Montjoie Saint-Denis," and you could it found that there were the
French the advantage.

The Groeninger Bach stiff with blood and corpses. The moans of the dying man was from the Clatter
of weapons drowned: a terrible roar like the rolling thunder Adda, winding the combatants. A
long line of dead bodies was something of a dam across the front Slaughter line out. The wounded
were sure of their death, for no one was lifted, and so they either had to nip in the mud, or
they were trampled by the horses.

Duringthe had Hugo van Arckel with his eight hundred brave warriors to the middle ventured into
the ranks of the French. He was so surrounded on all sides by enemies, that the Vlaemen was
impossible to see him. Here he fought so bravely, and turned that the mass of enemies, who attacked
him, his tribe, however small it was, not break could, he had already stretched round about
him a tremendous amount of opponents to the ground. Anyone who dared to approach him, it paid
with his life. Gradually, he penetrated more and more to the camp of the French people, and it
seemed as if he wanted to achieve it. But they did not his intention. When he reached the
center of the French armies, he turned to the side the standard of
Navarre, and ripped it to the standard-bearer of the hand. The soldiers
of the Queen Navarre fell furiously upon him and slew many of his
people, but he defended captured the flag so brave that no one could
snatch his hands again. Even he was almost back to back passes to
the armies of the Vlaemen than him by Ludwig of Forest a terrible
blow shattered his left arm. They saw the mutilated limb next the
harness hanging. The blood flowed down in a thick stream, and deathly
pallor spread down his cheeks, but he did not let go of the standard.
Ludwig von Forest was a other Vlaemen killed, and Hugo van Arckel
was almost lifeless, with the standard of Navarra in the middle of
the army on. He tried again the cry of "the Vlaenderen Leeuw," proclaim,
but his voice broke and he fell with the conquered banner to the ground.
On the left wing, where Gwijdes crowd was still heavy fighting was.
Châtillon had with thousands of riders on the guilds of Veurne and
already thrown a few hundred Man put to death. Eustace Sporkijn was
seriously wounded after the battle line and called his soldiers, they
told her not to get so shaky. But the violence that pushed them back,
was too great, she was soft. Followed by a large troop of riders broke
Châtillon the order of battle, and the head of the dying Sporkijn,
which then soon the spirit gave up a fierce fight ensued.

Adolf van
Nieuwland had stood alone with Gwijde and its standard bearer, so
that they were separated from the army and a certain death could be
expecting. Châtillon had it all possible to take to the great banner
of Flanders. Although Seghers Lonke, the Standard bore, has already
been defeated several times was, but his goal was Châtillon not reach.
He went wild shouting, angry at his people, and cut like mad on the
armor of three invincible Vlaemen one. Certainly this would not be
able to perform as long to defend themselves against a band of brave
enemies, but they had cut down so much that the accumulated corpses
around them quite a height had been reached, the convergence of other
riders and they were more difficult than parapet. Châtillon was inspired
by his Anger and impatience carried away: he took a long spear in
the hands of a rider and his rushed to go on Gwijde. He would have
probably killed the young Count infallible, because who saw his new
enemy does not arrive, because he fought with other knights. Already
it was as whether the spear between the helmet and armor penetrated
his neck, lifted up Adolf van Nieuwland like a flash his battle sword,
the spear cut in two pieces, and so saved the lives his generals. Ye ken fu' weel ye will be some time resident in my vicinity, when I may
have the power, as I will possess the inclination, to do you as good a turn."

"Sir--sir--I believe you to be a man of honour, and, as you say, a man of fortune. Yes, Mr.
Inglewood," he added, clearing his voice, "I really believe this gentleman to be so."

"And what are this gentleman's commands with me?" said the Justice, somewhat peevishly. "One
man introduces another, like the rhymes in the 'house that Jack built,' and I get company without
either peace or conversation!"

"Both shall be yours, sir," answered Campbell, "in a brief period of time. I come to release
your mind from a piece of troublesome duty, not to make increment to it."

"Body o' me! then you are welcome as ever Scot was to England, and that's not saying much.
But get on, man--let's hear what you have got to say at once."

"I presume, this gentleman," continued the North Briton, "told you there was a person of the
name of Campbell with him, when he had the mischance to lose his valise?"

"He has not mentioned such a name, from beginning to end of the matter," said the Justice.

"Ah! I conceive--I conceive," replied Mr. Campbell;--"Mr. Morris was kindly afeared of committing
a stranger into collision wi' the judicial forms of the country; but as I understand my evidence
is necessary to the compurgation of one honest gentleman here, Mr. Francis Osbaldistone, wha
has been most unjustly suspected, I will dispense with the precaution. Ye will therefore" (he
added addressing Morris with the same determined look and accent) "please tell Mr. Justice
Inglewood, whether we did not travel several miles together on the road, in consequence of
your own anxious request and suggestion, reiterated ance and again, baith on the evening that
we were at Northallerton, and there declined by me, but afterwards accepted, when I overtook
ye on the road near Cloberry Allers, and was prevailed on by you to resign my ain intentions
of proceeding to Rothbury; and, for my misfortune, to accompany you on your proposed route."

"It's a melancholy truth," answered Morris, holding down his head, as he gave this general
assent to the long and leading question which Campbell put to him, and seemed to acquiesce
in the statement it contained with rueful docility.

"And I presume you can also asseverate to his worship, that no man is better qualified than
I am to bear testimony in this case, seeing that I was by you, and near you, constantly during
the whole occurrence."

"No man better qualified, certainly," said Morris, with a deep and embarrassed sigh.

"And why the devil did you not assist him, then," said the Justice, "since, by Mr. Morris's
account, there were but two robbers; so you were two to two, and you are both stout likely men?"

"Sir, if it please your worship," said Campbell, "I have been all my life a man of peace and
quietness, noways given to broils or batteries. Mr. Morris, who belongs, as I understand, or
hath belonged, to his Majesty's army, might have used his pleasure in resistance, he travelling,
as I also understand, with a great charge of treasure; but, for me, who had but my own small
peculiar to defend, and who am, moreover, a man of a pacific occupation, I was unwilling to
commit myself to hazard in the matter."

I looked at Campbell as he muttered these words, and never recollect to have seen a more singular
contrast than that between the strong daring sternness expressed in his harsh features, and
the air of composed meekness and simplicity which his language assumed. There was even a slight
ironical smile lurking about the corners of his mouth, which seemed, involuntarily as it were,
to intimate his disdain of the quiet and peaceful character which he thought proper to assume,
and which led me to entertain strange suspicions that his concern in the violence done to Morris
had been something very different from that of a fellow-sufferer, or even of a mere spectator.

Perhaps some suspicious crossed the Justice's mind at the moment, for he exclaimed, as if by
way of ejaculation, "Body o' me! but this is a strange story."

The North Briton seemed to guess at what was passing in his mind; for he went on, with a change
of manner and tone, dismissing from his countenance some part of the hypocritical affectation
of humility which had made him obnoxious to suspicion, and saying, with a more frank and unconstrained
air, "To say the truth, I am just ane o' those canny folks wha care not to fight but when they
hae gotten something to fight for, which did not chance to be my predicament when I fell in
wi' these loons. But that your worship may know that I am a person of good fame and character,
please to cast your eye over that billet."

Mr. Inglewood took the paper from his hand, and read, half aloud, "These are to certify, that
the bearer, Robert Campbell of--of some place which I cannot pronounce," interjected the Justice--"is
a person of good lineage, and peaceable demeanour, travelling towards England on his own proper
affairs, &c. &c. &c. Given under our hand, at our Castle of Inver--Invera--rara--Argyle."

"A slight testimonial, sir, which I thought fit to impetrate from that worthy nobleman" (here
he raised his hand to his head, as if to touch his hat), "MacCallum More."

"MacCallum who, sir?" said the Justice.

"Whom the Southern call the Duke of Argyle."

"I know the Duke of Argyle very well to be a nobleman of great worth and distinction, and a
true lover of his country. I was one of those that stood by him in 1714, when he unhorsed the
Duke of Marlborough out of his command. I wish we had more noblemen like him. He was an honest
Tory in those days, and hand and glove with Ormond. And he has acceded to the present Government,
as I have done myself, for the peace and quiet of his country; for I cannot presume that great
man to have been actuated, as violent folks pretend, with the fear of losing his places and
regiment. His testimonial, as you call it, Mr. Campbell, is perfectly satisfactory; and now,
what have you got to say to this matter of the robbery?"

"Briefly this, if it please your worship,--that Mr. Morris might as weel charge it against
the babe yet to be born, or against myself even, as against this young gentleman, Mr. Osbaldistone;
for I am not only free to depone that the person whom he took for him was a shorter man, and
a thicker man, but also, for I chanced to obtain a glisk of his visage, as his fause-face slipped
aside, that he was a man of other features and complexion than those of this young gentleman,
Mr. Osbaldistone. And I believe," he added, turning round with a natural, yet somewhat sterner
air, to Mr. Morris, "that the gentleman will allow I had better opportunity to take cognisance
wha were present on that occasion than he, being, I believe, much the cooler o' the twa."

"I agree to it, sir--I agree to it perfectly," said Morris, shrinking back as Campbell moved
his chair towards him to fortify his appeal--"And I incline, sir," he added, addressing Mr.
Inglewood, "to retract my information as to Mr. Osbaldistone; and I request, sir, you will
permit him, sir, to go about his business, and me to go about mine also; your worship may have
business to settle with Mr. Campbell, and I am rather in haste to be gone."

"Then, there go the declarations," said the Justice, throwing them into the fire--"And now
you are at perfect liberty, Mr Osbaldistone. And you, Mr. Morris, are set quite at your ease."

"Ay," said Campbell, eyeing Morris as he assented with a rueful grin to the Justice's observations,
"much like the ease of a tod under a pair of harrows--But fear nothing, Mr. Morris; you and
I maun leave the house thegither. I will see you safe--I hope you will not doubt my honour,
when I say sae--to the next highway, and then we part company; and if we do not meet as friends
in Scotland, it will be your ain fault."

With such a lingering look of terror as the condemned criminal throws, when he is informed
that the cart awaits him, Morris arose; but when on his legs, appeared to hesitate. "I tell
thee, man, fear nothing," reiterated Campbell; "I will keep my word with you--Why, thou sheep's
heart, how do ye ken but we may can pick up some speerings of your valise, if ye will be amenable
to gude counsel?--Our horses are ready. Bid the Justice fareweel, man, and show your Southern
breeding."

Morris, thus exhorted and encouraged, took his leave, under the escort of Mr. Campbell; but,
apparently, new scruples and terrors had struck him before they left the house, for I heard
Campbell reiterating assurances of safety and protection as they left the ante-room--"By the
soul of my body, man, thou'rt as safe as in thy father's kailyard--Zounds! that a chield wi'
sic a black beard should hae nae mair heart than a hen-partridge!--Come on wi' ye, like a frank
fallow, anes and for aye."

The voices died away, and the subsequent trampling of their horses announced to us that they
had left the mansion of Justice Inglewood.

The joy which that worthy magistrate received at this easy conclusion of a matter which threatened
him with some trouble in his judicial capacity, was somewhat damped by reflection on what his
clerk's views of the transaction might be at his return. "Now, I shall have Jobson on my shoulders
about these d--d papers--I doubt I should not have destroyed them, after all--But hang it!
it is only paying his fees, and that will make all smooth--And now, Miss Die Vernon, though
I have liberated all the others, I intend to sign a writ for committing you to the custody
of Mother Blakes, my old housekeeper, for the evening, and we will send for my neighbour Mrs.
Musgrave, and the Miss Dawkins, and your cousins, and have old Cobs the fiddler, and be as
merry as the maids; and Frank Osbaldistone and I will have a carouse that will make us fit
company for you in half-an-hour."

"Thanks, most worshipful," returned Miss Vernon; "but, as matters stand, we must return instantly
to Osbaldistone Hall, where they do not know what has become of us, and relieve my uncle of
his anxiety on my cousin's account, which is just the same as if one of his own sons were concerned."

"I believe it truly," said the Justice; "for when his eldest son, Archie, came to a bad end,
in that unlucky affair of Sir John Fenwick's, old Hildebrand used to hollo out his name as
readily as any of the remaining six, and then complain that he could not recollect which of
his sons had been hanged. So, pray hasten home, and relieve his paternal solicitude, since
go you must. But hark thee hither, heath-blossom," he said, pulling her towards him by the
hand, and in a good-humoured tone of admonition, "another time let the law take its course,
without putting your pretty finger into her old musty pie, all full of fragments of law gibberish--French
and dog-Latin--And, Die, my beauty, let young fellows show each other the way through the moors,
in case you should lose your own road, while you are pointing out theirs, my pretty Will o'
the Wisp."

With this admonition, he saluted and dismissed Miss Vernon, and took an equally kind farewell
of me.

"Thou seems to be a good tight lad, Mr. Frank, and I remember thy father too--he was my playfellow
at school. Hark thee, lad,--ride early at night, and don't swagger with chance passengers on
the king's highway. What, man! all the king's liege subjects are not bound to understand joking,
and it's ill cracking jests on matters of felony. And here's poor Die Vernon too--in a manner
alone and deserted on the face of this wide earth, and left to ride, and run, and scamper,
at her own silly pleasure. Thou must be careful of Die, or, egad, I will turn a young fellow
again on purpose, and fight thee myself, although I must own it would be a great deal of trouble.
And now, get ye both gone, and leave me to my pipe of tobacco, and my meditations; for what
says the song--

                  The Indian leaf doth briefly burn;
                  So doth man's strength to weakness turn
                  The fire of youth extinguished quite,
                  Comes age, like embers, dry and white.
                  Think of this as you take tobacco."*

* [The lines here quoted belong to or were altered from a set of verses
at one time very popular in England, beginning, Tobacco that is withered
quite. In Scotland, the celebrated Ralph Erskine, author of the Gospel
Sonnets, published what he called "Smoking Spiritualized, in two
parts. The first part being an Old Meditation upon Smoking Tobacco."
                      Thus thank, and smoke tobacco.]

I was much pleased with the gleams of sense and feeling which escaped from the Justice through
the vapours of sloth and self-indulgence, assured him of my respect to his admonitions, and
took a friendly farewell of the honest magistrate and his hospitable mansion. She was really absent from their parents at a very strange Aunt been entrusted,
and it required many arts institutions and strange to Ottilie the ornament of the society to bring
into society. Ferdinand is exhausted in inventions for her to gain the pleasures which she enjoyed so
much and they each, the order did was to raise.

And in that very moment of a beloved and revered mother of all other duties asked to be to see no
help from this site, a loathing so lively to feel before debt, which also have almost only
fit his condition would not last long, while viewed by anyone for the wealthy and generous
to be, and the daily and urgent to feel need of the money, certainly was one of the most embarrassing
situations in which a young, can be located by moving emotional passions.

Some ideas to him earlier voruebergingen only slightly ahead of the soul, he was now solid, some
thoughts that troubled him otherwise only moments floated before longer his mind, and some
fractious and bitter feelings were permanent. Had otherwise he viewed his father as his model,
he envied him now as his rivals. Of all that wished the son, was that the property; all what this
is anxious, That was easy. And it was not from the necessities of the speech, but of what Anyone
could do without can. As for the son thought that the father probably sometimes should do without
in order to let him enjoy. The father, however, was quite a different attitude; He was one of
those people who allow themselves a lot and get the reason in the case, which, depend on them
to fail a lot. He had exposed his son something certain and demanded an exact account, even a
regular statement from him about it.

Nothing sharpens the eye of the people more than if he was restricted. Therefore, the Women
certainly wiser than men, and no one is more attentive than subordinates to the commanding,
without also preceded by his example. Thus was the son of all actions of his father's attention,
especially those related money issues. He listened to more accurate when he heard his father
had lost or won in the game, he rated it more stringent, if that is arbitrarily allowed something
Costly. And pray, how does Farmer Rutledge, Mr. Jobson? I hope you found him able
to sign, seal, and deliver?"

This question seemed greatly to increase the wrath of the man of law. He looked at Miss Vernon
with such an air of spite and resentment, as laid me under a strong temptation to knock him
off his horse with the butt-end of my whip, which I only suppressed in consideration of his
insignificance.

"Farmer Rutledge, ma'am?" said the clerk, as soon as his indignation permitted him to articulate,
"Farmer Rutledge is in as handsome enjoyment of his health as you are--it's all a bam, ma'am--all
a bamboozle and a bite, that affair of his illness; and if you did not know as much before,
you know it now, ma'am."

"La you there now!" replied Miss Vernon, with an affectation of extreme and simple wonder,
"sure you don't say so, Mr. Jobson?" I am afraid Gaffer Rutledge has not confined his incivility
to language--Are you sure he did not give you a beating?"

"Beating, ma'am!--no"--(very shortly)--"no man alive shall beat me, I promise you, ma'am."

"That is according as you happen to merit, sir," said I: "for your mode of speaking to this
young lady is so unbecoming, that, if you do not change your tone, I shall think it worth while
to chastise you myself."

"Chastise, sir? and--me, sir?--Do you know whom you speak to, sir?"

"Yes, sir," I replied; "you say yourself you are clerk of peace to the county; and Gaffer Rutledge
says you are a pettifogger; and in neither capacity are you entitled to be impertinent to a
young lady of fashion."

Miss Vernon laid her hand on my arm, and exclaimed, "Come, Mr. Osbaldistone, I will have no
assaults and battery on Mr. Jobson; I am not in sufficient charity with him to permit a single
touch of your whip--why, he would live on it for a term at least. Besides, you have already
hurt his feelings sufficiently--you have called him impertinent."

"I don't value his language, Miss," said the clerk, somewhat crestfallen: "besides, impertinent
is not an actionable word; but pettifogger is slander in the highest degree, and that I will
make Gaffer Rutledge know to his cost, and all who maliciously repeat the same, to the breach
of the public peace, and the taking away of my private good name."

"Never mind that, Mr. Jobson," said Miss Vernon; "you know, where there is nothing, your own
law allows that the king himself must lose his rights; and for the taking away of your good
name, I pity the poor fellow who gets it, and wish you joy of losing it with all my heart."

"Very well, ma'am--good evening, ma'am--I have no more to say--only there are laws against
papists, which it would be well for the land were they better executed. Tolerates her that the LELIAERT the tree crop such, they are us soon rob the strength
to defend the withered trunk. Who has a man's heart may the eight Grooten not pay! Who the real
Klauwaarts blood flow in feel, seizures the Goedendag and defend the rights of the people! The
vote may decide this, because my advice is not an order. "

Well took the weaver, who had already spoken, again the word:

"You give us a pernicious advice you are very happy to riot and bloodshed, so that your everywhere
known as a leader will, would not it be much wiser to us by the French government to submit as faithful
subjects, and thereby extend our trade to this great country? Yes, I maintain that the government
of Philip the Fair will increase our prosperity, and every well-thinking citizens must consider the
French rule as happy.

Our City Council consists of respectable, wise men. "

All Weber were very puzzled and threw many dark and scornful glances
at the man, of such cowardly words were spoken.

De Coninck flared up angrily. His love of people knew no borders; that a weaver could talk like that,
it seemed to dishonor the entire guild.
"Woe," he said, "is because all the love for freedom and to your
fatherland dead in your chest? Do you want out of greed which kiss
the hands that beat you in chains? If our descendants say that Bruges
had bowed her head before a stranger, and before slavery? Good-night, my dear Mr. Jobson, thou mirror of clerical
courtesy."

"Good-night, ma'am, and remember the law is not to be trifled with."

And we rode on our separate ways.

"There he goes for a troublesome mischief-making tool," said Miss Vernon, as she gave a glance
after him; it is hard that persons of birth and rank and estate should be subjected to the
official impertinence of such a paltry pickthank as that, merely for believing as the whole
world believed not much above a hundred years ago--for certainly our Catholic Faith has the
advantage of antiquity at least."

"I was much tempted to have broken the rascal's head," I replied.

"You would have acted very like a hasty young man," said Miss Vernon; "and yet, had my own
hand been an ounce heavier than it is, I think I should have laid its weight upon him. Well,
it does not signify complaining, but there are three things for which I am much to be pitied,
if any one thought it worth while to waste any compassion upon me."

"And what are these three things, Miss Vernon, may I ask?"

"Will you promise me your deepest sympathy, if I tell you?"

"Certainly;--can you doubt it?" I replied, closing my horse nearer to hers as I spoke, with
an expression of interest which I did not attempt to disguise.

"Well, it is very seducing to be pitied, after all; so here are my three grievances: In the
first place, I am a girl, and not a young fellow, and would be shut up in a mad-house if I
did half the things that I have a mind to;--and that, if I had your happy prerogative of acting
as you list, would make all the world mad with imitating and applauding me."

"I can't quite afford you the sympathy you expect upon this score," I replied; "the misfortune
is so general, that it belongs to one half of the species; and the other half"--

"Are so much better cared for, that they are jealous of their prerogatives," interrupted Miss
Vernon--"I forgot you were a party interested. Nay," she said, as I was going to speak, "that
soft smile is intended to be the preface of a very pretty compliment respecting the peculiar
advantages which Die Vernon's friends and kinsmen enjoy, by her being born one of their Helots;
but spare me the utterance, my good friend, and let us try whether we shall agree better on
the second count of my indictment against fortune, as that quill-driving puppy would call it.
I belong to an oppressed sect and antiquated religion, and, instead of getting credit for my
devotion, as is due to all good girls beside, my kind friend, Justice Inglewood, may send me
to the house of correction, merely for worshipping God in the way of my ancestors, and say,
as old Pembroke did to the Abbess of Wilton,* when he usurped her convent and establishment,
'Go spin, you jade,--Go spin.'"

* Note F. The Abbess of Wilton.

"This is not a cureless evil," said I gravely. "Consult some of our learned divines, or consult
your own excellent understanding, Miss Vernon; and surely the particulars in which our religious
creed differs from that in which you have been educated"--

"Hush!" said Diana, placing her fore-finger on her mouth,--"Hush! no more of that. Forsake
the faith of my gallant fathers! I would as soon, were I a man, forsake their banner when the
tide of battle pressed hardest against it, and turn, like a hireling recreant, to join the
victorious enemy."

"I honour your spirit, Miss Vernon; and as to the inconveniences to which it exposes you, I
can only say, that wounds sustained for the sake of conscience carry their own balsam with
the blow."

"Ay; but they are fretful and irritating, for all that. But I see, hard of heart as you are,
my chance of beating hemp, or drawing out flax into marvellous coarse thread, affects you as
little as my condemnation to coif and pinners, instead of beaver and cockade; so I will spare
myself the fruitless pains of telling my third cause of vexation."

"Nay, my dear Miss Vernon, do not withdraw your confidence, and I will promise you, that the
threefold sympathy due to your very unusual causes of distress shall be all duly and truly
paid to account of the third, providing you assure me, that it is one which you neither share
with all womankind, nor even with every Catholic in England, who, God bless you, are still
a sect more numerous than we Protestants, in our zeal for church and state, would desire them
to be."

"It is indeed," said Diana, with a manner greatly altered, and more serious than I had yet
seen her assume, "a misfortune that well merits compassion. I am by nature, as you may easily
observe, of a frank and unreserved disposition--a plain true-hearted girl, who would willingly
act openly and honestly by the whole world, and yet fate has involved me in such a series of
nets and toils, and entanglements, that I dare hardly speak a word for fear of consequences--not
to myself, but to others."

"That is indeed a misfortune, Miss Vernon, which I do most sincerely compassionate, but which
I should hardly have anticipated."

"O, Mr. Osbaldistone, if you but knew--if any one knew, what difficulty I sometimes find in
hiding an aching heart with a smooth brow, you would indeed pity me. I do wrong, perhaps, in
speaking to you even thus far on my own situation; but you are a young man of sense and penetration--you
cannot but long to ask me a hundred questions on the events of this day--on the share which
Rashleigh has in your deliverance from this petty scrape--upon many other points which cannot
but excite your attention; and I cannot bring myself to answer with the necessary falsehood
and finesse--I should do it awkwardly, and lose your good opinion, if I have any share of it,
as well as my own. It is best to say at once, Ask me no questions,--I have it not in my power
to reply to them."

Miss Vernon spoke these words with a tone of feeling which could not but make a corresponding
impression upon me. I assured her she had neither to fear my urging her with impertinent questions,
nor my misconstruing her declining to answer those which might in themselves be reasonable,
or at least natural.

"I was too much obliged," I said, "by the interest she had taken in my affairs, to misuse the
opportunity her goodness had afforded me of prying into hers--I only trusted and entreated,
that if my services could at any time be useful, she would command them without doubt or hesitation."

"Thank you--thank you," she replied; "your voice does not ring the cuckoo chime of compliment,
but speaks like that of one who knows to what he pledges himself. If--but it is impossible--but
yet, if an opportunity should occur, I will ask you if you remember this promise; and I assure
you, I shall not be angry if I find you have forgotten it, for it is enough that you are sincere
in your intentions just now--much may occur to alter them ere I call upon you, should that
moment ever come, to assist Die Vernon, as if you were Die Vernon's brother."

"And if I were Die Vernon's brother," said I, "there could not be less chance that I should
refuse my assistance--And now I am afraid I must not ask whether Rashleigh was willingly accessory
to my deliverance?"

"Not of me; but you may ask it of himself, and depend upon it, he will say yes; for rather
than any good action should walk through the world like an unappropriated adjective in an ill-arranged
sentence, he is always willing to stand noun substantive to it himself."

"And I must not ask whether this Campbell be himself the party who eased Mr. Morris of his
portmanteau,--or whether the letter, which our friend the attorney received, was not a finesse
to withdraw him from the scene of action, lest he should have marred the happy event of my
deliverance? And I must not ask"--

"You must ask nothing of me," said Miss Vernon; "so it is quite in vain to go on putting cases.
You are to think just as well of me as if I had answered all these queries, and twenty others
besides, as glibly as Rashleigh could have done; and observe, whenever I touch my chin just
so, it is a sign that I cannot speak upon the topic which happens to occupy your attention.
I must settle signals of correspondence with you, because you are to be my confidant and my
counsellor, only you are to know nothing whatever of my affairs."

"Nothing can be more reasonable," I replied, laughing; "and the extent of your confidence will,
you may rely upon it, only be equalled by the sagacity of my counsels."

This sort of conversation brought us, in the highest good-humour with each other, to Osbaldistone
Hall, where we found the family far advanced in the revels of the evening.

"Get some dinner for Mr. Osbaldistone and me in the library," said Miss Vernon to a servant.--"I
must have some compassion upon you," she added, turning to me, "and provide against your starving
in this mansion of brutal abundance; otherwise I am not sure that I should show you my private
haunts. This same library is my den--the only corner of the Hall-house where I am safe from
the Ourang-Outangs, my cousins. They never venture there, I suppose for fear the folios should
fall down and crack their skulls; for they will never affect their heads in any other way--So
follow me."

And I followed through hall and bower, vaulted passage and winding stair, until we reached
the room where she had ordered our refreshments.

CHAPTER TENTH.

                In the wide pile, by others heeded not,
                    Hers was one sacred solitary spot,
                Whose gloomy aisles and bending shelves contain
                For moral hunger food, and cures for moral pain.
                                            Anonymous.

The library at Osbaldistone Hall was a gloomy room, whose antique oaken shelves bent beneath
the weight of the ponderous folios so dear to the seventeenth century, from which, under favour
be it spoken, we have distilled matter for our quartos and octavos, and which, once more subjected
to the alembic, may, should our sons be yet more frivolous than ourselves, be still farther
reduced into duodecimos and pamphlets. A desperate attempt and a heroic
failure. For a unit may well come about, but never a real unity. The plot of the Iliad - without
beginning and without end - a bloom closed universe of all-embracing life and the clear unit
composed of the Nibelungenlied brings life and decay, castles and ruins behind their finely articulated
facade.

3.

Epic and novel, the objectification of the two great epics away, not after the formative Sentiments,
but on the historical and philosophical circumstances, they need to design . Find The novel is
the epic of an age for which the extensive totality of life if not obvious, has become for the
Lebensimmanenz of sense to the problem is, and yet the spirit of totality. It would be superficial
and only artistic, search in verse and prose the only genus and decisive dominant features.
Both for the epic, as the tragedy is not an ultimate constituent of the verse, but symptom of a deep,
a sheath of water that their true nature on the truest and most genuine brings to appearance. The tragic
verse is sharp and hard, insulating, and creating distance. He clothed the heroes with all the
depth of her loneliness born form, leaves no other Relations as that of the struggle and the
destruction arise between them, but in his poetry can sound desperate and noise of the road and the
end, the immensity of the abyss; the essentiality of these floats shine, but never will - what
the prose sometimes permits - to break through a purely spiritual and human understanding between
the figures, Never is the despair of elegy and yearning for the noise to its own heights are
never the soul can look to measure their abyss in psychologistic vanity and admired in the mirror
of their own depth complacent. The dramatic verse - so Schiller wrote to Goethe about it -
reveals any triviality of the tragic invention, He has a specific focus and seriousness, not
only before the life-like, another Expression only for the dramatic may be trivial,: the weight
of opposition between Language and content must be the trivial mind lifting. Even the epic
verse creates Distances, but mean distances in the sphere of life a bliss and lightness, Lockererwerden
one of the ties that wrap around things and people unworthy of a suppression of those Dullness
and depression which, taken in the life, in and of itself is liable, the only each happy moments
scattered, and they should just by the distancing be of epic verse to life level. The effect
of the verse is thus here an opposite, just because its immediate consequences are the same: destruction
of the triviality and closer, one's own nature. Because the trivial is the sphere of life, for the epic:
the severity, as was the ease for the tragedy. The objective guarantee that the complete removal of
all life sticking an empty abstraction from life, but an existent Will of being, can only lie
in the consistency that this life is distant figure: only if their being, beyond all comparison
with the life-filled, rounded and weighty has become, than any desire for fulfillment, it can do to see
it in scannable Evidence that the tragic stylization is made, and any facility or pallor, certainly
nothing to do with the philistine concept of Unlebendigsein has shown that the normative tragic sentiment
did not exist, shows at all psychological subtlety care of the individual and lyrical invention, the
triviality of the work on.

For life but does gravity: the absence of the current sense, the indissoluble Bias in meaningless
causal links, the withering away in barren ground proximity and Heaven
afar, and the insistence Do not free itself from the shackles of mere
skill brutal Materiality, that which for the most immanent forces
of life, the constant goal of overcoming is, expressed with the concept
of value of the form: triviality.

The totality of existent bliss Life is pre-established harmony in the epic verses assigned already
the vordichterische Process of a mythological lashing of all life, the being of every trivial
gravity cleaned, and in the verses of Homer to open only the buds ready to blossom this Spring.
But the verse can only bring about the quiet impetus to spring up only from the all intertwine with
fetters loosened the wreath of freedom. If the act of digging a poet meaning of the buried, is
blow when his hero only dreamed of their prison, and their Home of the longed-for freedom from
earth gravity only in heavy fighting to conquer or laborious Search wanderings must be sufficient
to power of the verse is not by this distance - the abyss with a carpet of flowers obstructions
- to transform the feasible path. For the Ease of the great epic is the only concrete immanent
utopia of the historical hour, and forming the rapture, the verse that gives everything he wears, must
be the epic her great Subjektslosigkeit rob and totality: it an idyll, or the lyrical game .
Transform For the ease of the great epic is only by jettisoning the real pulling down chains, a value
and a reality-creating power. Forgetting Slavery in beautiful games of the freed imagination
or taken refuge on Blessed Islands, undetectable on the map of the world of the trivial constraint,
can never for great epic run. In times when this facility is not given, the verse banished from
the great epic, or it changes suddenly and unexpectedly, a lyrical. Only then can the prose
to the suffering and the laurel, the battle and the coronation, the Way and the dedication
include equally strong, with only their suppleness and their rhythms free unbound Binding meet
with equal force the chains and the freedom given the gravity and won easily found by the
inherent sense now resplendent world. It is no accident that the disintegration of the song has
become reality in Cervantes' prose sorry to fulfill Ease of the great epic arose, where the
cheerful dance of Ariosto's verse is a game, a Poetry was, and it is no coincidence that the
epic poet Goethe poured out his idyll in verse and for the Totality of the novel, the prose masterpieces
chosen. In the world of distance, each epic Verse to the poetry - the verse "Don Juan" and "Onegin"
are joined to the great humorist - for every hidden in the verse is revealed, and the distance that
the cautious step of Prose overcomes artfully through the gradually approaching sense occurs,
naked, ridiculed, kicked or forgotten dream apparent than in the rapid flight of the verses.

Even
Dante's verses are lyrical as the lyric of Homer, but not yet: they compress and combine the ballad
to epic. The immanence of the meaning of life is for Dante's world here and now, but in the
hereafter: it is the perfect immanence of the transcendent. The Distance in the ordinary world
of life is increased to invincibility, but beyond In this world everyone's lost their way to
him from eternity waiting home, and here each lonely fading voice is waiting there, the choir singing,
which takes their sound to harmony and carries them to harmony. The outdoor world is full spread
far and chaotic Clenching is below the bright sky of the Rose became obvious meaning and is
at every moment and openly visible.

Every resident of the home is beyond out of it, everyone is bound with the fate of insoluble
power to them, but everyone recognizes and she looks it in its fragility and weight only when
his sense have become Has run away to the end, each singing its isolated form fate, sings of
the isolated Incident in which her Zubestimmte has become clear: a ballad. And just as the totality
transcendent world of construction for each individual skill, the predetermined, meaningful
and comprehensive Priori, so envelops the growing understanding of this building, its structure
and Beauty - the great experience of wandering Dante - all with the unity of his now revealed sense:
the knowledge of Dante turns to the individual component of the whole, the ballads to songs
of an epic. But only in the hereafter is the meaning of this world no spacing become visible
and immanent. In this world is the totality of a brittle or desired, and the verses are just
lyrical Godfrey tungsten or jewelry of her novels, and deep ballads of the Nibelungenlied,
only hidden compositional, but not for world-embracing totality are rounded.

The epic by itself created a closed totality of life, the novel seeks creatively uncover the hidden totality
of life and build. The given structure of the object - The search is only seen by the subject
of expression of the fact that both the objective Whole life as his relationship with the
subjects of course nothing to Harmonious has - gives the spirit of the design: All cracks and
chasms, the historical Situation carries with it must be included in the design and can not
and should not with Means of composition are covered. Thus, the objectified form determining
basic attitude psychology of the novel as the hero: they are seekers. The simple fact of seeking
indicates that neither targets nor pathways can be given immediately, or that her psychological
immediate and unwavering givenness any evident knowledge truly existing
Relationships or ethical needs, but only a psychological fact of neither
in the world of objects must still meet the standards of something.

In other words, it may be crime or insanity, and the limits that affirms the crime of the separate
heroism, the insanity of the life wisdom are mastered, moving, just psychological limits when the reached
the end, even in the terrible clarity of the become apparent, hopeless Verirrtseins from ordinary
reality apart. Epic and tragedy to know in this sense, no crime and no madness. What the Everyday
use of the terms crime is called, is either not for them there, or there is nothing else than the
symbolic knotted, sensual, well-lit point where the relationship of the soul to its destiny,
the vehicle of their own metaphysical impulse, visible. The epic is either the pure children world
in which the transgression fixed of adopted standards necessary moves to a revenge to the back,
and so on to infinity continues, must be avenged, or she is the consummate theodicy, where crime
and punishment as equal weight, each homogeneous weights in the scales are the World Court.
And in the Tragedy is the crime a nothing or a symbol, a mere element of the act of technical
laws and requires determined, or the breaking of the essence on this side Forms, the portal through
which enters the soul itself. The madness knows epic not at all, because it would be a generally
unintelligible language of a just as clearly becoming About world, for the problem-tragedy,
he may be the symbolic expression for the end equivalent to the bodily death, or of living
beings in Abgestorbensein the fire of self-hood burnt soul. For crimes and follies are objectification
of transcendental homelessness; of homelessness a crime in the human order of social relationships
and the homelessness of a soul in what ought to be of the order of personal value system.
Each form is the resolution of a fundamental dissonance of existence, a world where the absurd
moved to its correct position, as a carrier, as a necessary condition of meaning appears. So if
in a form the peak of absurdity, the ineffective addition, running deep and true human endeavor,
or the possibility of a last human nothingness, as supporting fact taken and that in itself
preposterous and declared broken, and therefore as being must be recognized and irrevocably existent,
it can in this way although some Flows into the sea carrying lead, but the disappearance of
the obvious targets, the crucial Of direction of the whole life must yet as all characters and
events foundation of construction, will be added as konstituitives priori basis.

Where no goals are met immediately, losing the structure that the soul in its incarnation as the
scene of their activity and substrate among men finds her roots-evident in more than personal,
what ought to be necessities, they are somewhat simple beings, perhaps Empowered, perhaps Morscher bear,
but neither the consecration of the Absolute in itself, nor are the nature-like container for the overflowing
of the inner soul. They form the World of convention: a world whose omnipotence only the innermost
of the soul is withdrawn and the in confusing diversity is present everywhere, their strict legality,
both in the making as in being, is evidently necessary for the knowing subject, but at all this
law is neither a sense of the target-seeking subject nor in a sensuous Immediacy as a substance
for the acting presents. She is a second nature, like the first only as the epitome of realized
foreign sensory needs determined and therefore its real substance undetectable and unknowable.
For the seal but only the substance Existence and only each other intimately in the homogeneous
substances can fight full solidarity the compositional relations at loggerheads. The lyrics
can Phänomenalwerden the first nature and ignore the power of this konstituitiven ignoring out a protean
Mythology of the substantial subjectivity create: for it is only the big moment there, and this
is a meaningful unity of nature and soul or their useful separateness,
and affirmed the need to become eternal loneliness of the soul: torn
from the random run-off period, lifted out of the turbid due to multiplicity
of things clots, in the lyric Moment, the pure inwardness of the soul
to the substance, and the strange and unknowable Nature clenches driven
from the inside to thoroughly enlightened icon.

But only in the lyrical moments, this relationship between mind and nature to produce. Otherwise transformed
the more striking because of the nature of their senses in a kind of distant scenic limbo Symbols
of the seal, to be frozen in the Last Day of mobility seems and only from Magic of poetry to make
sense moving peace can be appeased. For those moments are only for the constitutive and form of
poetry, where only in the poetry of this sudden Flashes of the substance to a sudden Ablesbarwerden
of lost originals, only in the poetry of the subject, with this experience is the sole carrier
of meaning, the only true reality. The drama is set in a realm that is beyond this reality lies,
and the epic forms the subjective experience remains in the subject: it is the mood. And nature
is - their own strange sense of their lives both as meaningful symbolism undressed - to the background,
the scenery, the accompanying voice, she has her independence lost and only the projection is gripped
by the senses of the essence, of inwardness.

The second nature of the human race has no lyrical image of substantiality: their shapes are rigid
to cling to the symbolic creative moment, the content of precipitation their laws must be measured
to the elements in poetry to essays occasions will have, according to exit, these elements are live
so exclusively from the Grace of legalities have, so do any of them independent sensual valence
of existence, that they must disintegrate into nothing without them. This nature is not dumb, obvious
and strange sense, as the first: it is a frozen, estranged, not the inner-inspiring Meaning
complex, it is a place of skulls and rotten insides would therefore - if this would be possible -
just by the act of a metaphysical resurrection of the soul, they in their past or to end life
created or received arousable, but never by another belebbar inwardness.


"It seems surprising to me," I observed, "that during the glance I cast over the declaration,
or whatever it is termed, of Mr. Morris, he should never have mentioned that Campbell was in
his company when he met the marauders."

"I understood from Campbell, that he had taken his solemn promise not to mention that circumstance,"
replied Rashleigh: "his reason for exacting such an engagement you may guess from what I have
hinted--he wished to get back to his own country, undelayed and unembarrassed by any of the
judicial inquiries which he would have been under the necessity of attending, had the fact
of his being present at the robbery taken air while he was on this side of the Border. But
let him once be as distant as the Forth, Morris will, I warrant you, come forth with all he
knows about him, and, it may be, a good deal more. Besides, Campbell is a very extensive dealer
in cattle, and has often occasion to send great droves into Northumberland; and, when driving
such a trade, he would be a great fool to embroil himself with our Northumbrian thieves, than
whom no men who live are more vindictive."

"I dare be sworn of that," said Miss Vernon, with a tone which implied something more than
a simple acquiescence in the proposition.

"Still," said I, resuming the subject, "allowing the force of the reasons which Campbell might
have for desiring that Morris should be silent with regard to his promise when the robbery
was committed, I cannot yet see how he could attain such an influence over the man, as to make
him suppress his evidence in that particular, at the manifest risk of subjecting his story
to discredit."

Rashleigh agreed with me, that it was very extraordinary, and seemed to regret that he had
not questioned the Scotchman more closely on that subject, which he allowed looked extremely
mysterious. "But," he asked, immediately after this acquiescence, "are you very sure the circumstance
of Morris's being accompanied by Campbell is really not alluded to in his examination?"

"I read the paper over hastily," said I; "but it is my strong impression that no such circumstance
is mentioned;--at least, it must have been touched on very slightly, since it failed to catch
my attention."

"True, true," answered Rashleigh, forming his own inference while he adopted my words; "I incline
to think with you, that the circumstance must in reality have been mentioned, but so slightly
that it failed to attract your attention. And then, as to Campbell's interest with Morris,
I incline to suppose that it must have been gained by playing upon his fears. This chicken-hearted
fellow, Morris, is bound, I understand, for Scotland, destined for some little employment under
Government; and, possessing the courage of the wrathful dove, or most magnanimous mouse, he
may have been afraid to encounter the ill-will of such a kill-cow as Campbell, whose very appearance
would be enough to fright him out of his little wits. You observed that Mr. Campbell has at
times a keen and animated manner--something of a martial cast in his tone and bearing."

"I own," I replied, "that his expression struck me as being occasionally fierce and sinister,
and little adapted to his peaceable professions. Has he served in the army?"

"Yes--no--not, strictly speaking, served; but he has been, I believe, like most of his countrymen,
trained to arms. Indeed, among the hills, they carry them from boyhood to the grave. So, if
you know anything of your fellow-traveller, you will easily judge, that, going to such a country,
he will take cue to avoid a quarrel, if he can help it, with any of the natives. But, come,
I see you decline your wine--and I too am a degenerate Osbaldistone, so far as respects the
circulation of the bottle. If you will go to my room, I will hold you a hand at piquet."

We rose to take leave of Miss Vernon, who had from time to time suppressed, apparently with
difficulty, a strong temptation to break in upon Rashleigh's details. As we were about to leave
the room, the smothered fire broke forth.

"Mr. Osbaldistone," she said, "your own observation will enable you to verify the justice,
or injustice, of Rashleigh's suggestions concerning such individuals as Mr. Campbell and Mr.
Morris. But, in slandering Scotland, he has borne false witness against a whole country; and
I request you will allow no weight to his evidence."

"Perhaps," I answered, "I may find it somewhat difficult to obey your injunction, Miss Vernon;
for I must own I was bred up with no very favourable idea of our northern neighbours."

"Distrust that part of your education, sir," she replied, "and let the daughter of a Scotchwoman
pray you to respect the land which gave her parent birth, until your own observation has proved
them to be unworthy of your good opinion. Preserve your hatred and contempt for dissimulation,
baseness, and falsehood, wheresoever they are to be met with. You will find enough of all without
leaving England.--Adieu, gentlemen, I wish you good evening."

And she signed to the door, with the manner of a princess dismissing her train.

We retired to Rashleigh's apartment, where a servant brought us coffee and cards. I had formed
my resolution to press Rashleigh no farther on the events of the day. A mystery, and, as I
thought, not of a favourable complexion, appeared to hang over his conduct; but to ascertain
if my suspicions were just, it was necessary to throw him off his guard. We cut for the deal,
and were soon earnestly engaged in our play. I thought I perceived in this trifling for amusement
(for the stake which Rashleigh proposed was a mere trifle) something of a fierce and ambitious
temper. He seemed perfectly to understand the beautiful game at which he played, but preferred,
as it were on principle, the risking bold and precarious strokes to the ordinary rules of play;
and neglecting the minor and better-balanced chances of the game, he hazarded everything for
the chance of piqueing, repiqueing, or capoting his adversary. If it those Ideas
brought to a dark despair, as he had to confess that he be Deserved fate, he was stirred by
this most intimately by the sad Truth learned that an evil deed even good efforts is able to
destroy. This return to itself, this view that the noblest efforts are in vain should, made him
soft, he no longer wished to live.

In these moments his soul thirsted for a higher support. He fell on his Chair down, he bathed
with his tears, and called Help there by divine beings. His prayer was one erhoerenswerten content:
the man who calls himself from the truck again collects, was entitled to immediate relief;
the one who never used any of his forces leave could be there where they just go where they do not
suffice to support the Father called in heaven.

In this conviction, in this urgent request, he stayed for a while and noticed hard to believe
that his door opened and someone entered. It was the mother, with a cheerful Face came up on him,
saw his confusion and addressed him with comforting words. "How I'm happy, "she said," I think
you at least as a liar and that I can hold true for your repentance. Gold has found himself,
the father, as he of a friend got back, there was the cashier aside, and the many employments
of the day, scattered, he has forgotten it. With the silver does your statement along pretty the
sum is now much lower. I could not hide the joy of my heart and the father promised to procure the
missing amount again when he to calm down and further into the matter does not promise to
ask. "

Ferdinand immediately went over to the biggest joy. He hastened to perform his trading business, soon
became the mother of the money, even replacing what he had not taken, of which He knew it was
just missed by the disorder of the father in his spending. He was merry and cheerful had,
but this whole incident is a very serious effect on him left behind. He was convinced that the
man has power to do good to accomplish and he believed now that this man is the divine essence
for are interested and hope to his assistance, could he just learned directly had. With great
joy he discovered his father is now his plan in those areas settle. He put the institution out in
its full value and volume, the father was not averse to the mother and her husband discovered
secret the relationship Ferdinand Ottilie. Liked this one so brilliant daughter, and the prospect
of his son can provide at no cost to was very pleasant to him.

"This story pleases me," said Louise, had ended when the old man,
"and although she is taken from common life, it is not before me everyday
occurrences.

For if we ask ourselves and others observe, we find that we rarely by ourselves be motivated
to renounce this or that desire, usually it is the external circumstances, which force us to
do so. "

"I wish," said Karl, "that we could not have needed to deny us something
but we knew that the one does not know what we should not have.

Unfortunately, in our States pressed together everything, everything is planted, all trees are
full of fruits, and we should always leave just under it, to be content in the shadows and
most beautiful on the Disclaimer pleasures do. "

"Let us"

Luise said to the old, "now continue listening to your story!"

The old man. "She has really been made."

Luise. "The development we have certainly heard, and now we would also like to the end . Hear "

The old man. "They really are different, and since you are interested in the fate of my friend, I you
want, how it happened to him, tell more recently.

Freed from the oppressive burden of such an ugly crime, not without modest satisfaction with himself,
he now thought of his future happiness and longingly awaited the Rueckkunft Ottilie to explain himself
and to fulfill his promise in the whole extent. You came in company of their parents, he hurried
to her, he found it nice and cheerful as ever. He impatiently awaited the moment when he spoke
to her alone and its prospects could provide. The hour came, and with all joy and tenderness
of love told he her his hopes, the closeness of his happiness and the desire to share it with
her. Solo how surprised he was, indeed consternation as when the whole matter very lightly,
indeed, one might almost say, started a mocking.

She joked about the not very fine Hermitage he had chosen, about the character she would play
both if they as a Shepherd and Shepherdess in a thatched roof fled, and what that kind.

Affected and embittered, he returned in itself; her conduct had annoyed him, and he became
an instant cold.

She had been unjust to him, and he noticed errors her, he had left hidden otherwise. Also, it
did not need a very bright eye to to see that a so-called cousin, who was mitangekommen their
attention moved and a large portion of their tendency had won.

In the intolerable pain that Ferdinand felt he took it together soon, and the overcoming them, he had
succeeded once before, seemed to him a second time possible. He saw Ottilie often and won over
to watch it, he did, and yes, tenderness them and not so much against him, but her charms had
lost their greatest power, and he soon felt that something rare with
her came from the heart, rather, that they freely could be tender
and cold, irritant and repellent, comfortable and moody.

His mind got away gradually from her, and he decided to even the last threads entzweizureissen.

This
operation was more painful than he had imagined. He found one day alone and took a heart to remind
them of their pledged word, and those moments you to recall, in which both of them, by the delicacy
penetrated, a dispute had taken on their future life. She was friendly, one might almost say
tenderly, and he was soft and wished at that moment that everything else will be, than he had imagined.
But he pulled himself together, and carried her the story of his upcoming establishments with peace
and love before. She seemed to be pleased about it and to some extent to be regretted that this
will her connection is delayed. It indicated that they have not the slightest desire to leave
the city, she let their hope to see that he is several years of work in those areas in the state
could bring to play under his current fellow citizens a great figure. She let do not notice
him vaguely that they expected him that he go further than its future Father to go and show themselves
in all things even more attractive and would be legal.

Ferdinand felt only too much, that he expected such a link is no luck have, and yet it was hard
to give up so many stimuli. Perhaps he would be very hesitant walked away from her, he had not been dissolved
and the cousin in his conduct too much Confidentiality to Ottilie shown. Ferdinand wrote her
out a letter in which he assured her again that she would make him happy when he to his new
wanted to follow the determination, but that he did not advisable for both, a remote hope to
nourish future periods and to an uncertain future with a promise to . Bind

Even to this letter he wanted a favorable response, but she did not
like his heart, but as they had to approve of his reason.

Ottilie gave him a very delicate nature his word back, without entirely letting go of his heart,
and as said the note also their feelings, in spirit she was bound and their words for free.

What
should I be more complicated? Ferdinand ran back into that peaceful areas its creation was
soon made, and he was decent and hard working and it was only more
so as the good, natural girls that we know already, there is marvelous
as the wife and the old uncle was doing everything to secure his domestic
situation and to make comfortable.

I know him in later years, surrounded by a numerous, well-formed Family. He told me his story
itself and how it usually happens people where any encounter something
important in earlier times, then had that story Dented so deep in
him that she had a great influence on his life.

Self as husband and father of the family he would sometimes something that would have made
him joy, to fail, just not to get out of practice such a beautiful virtue, and all his Education
was a sense that his children were from the spur something had to refuse can.

In a way, I could not approve in the beginning, he said as a boy to eat at table, a popular
dish. To my astonishment, the boy was bright, and it was as if nothing further had occurred.

And
so were the oldest on its own motion sometimes a noble fruit, or any other Delicacy by going
on, whereas he allowed them, I would like to say, everything and
there was no lack of ways and bad habits in his house.

He seemed indifferent about everything to be and let them almost unbridled freedom, but he found
it the week once that everything had to be done on time. Then in the morning were the same controls
the clock, each one received his orders for the day, business and
pleasure have been heaped, and No one was allowed to miss one second.

I could spend hours of his talks and Notes on maintenance this strange kind of education.
He joked with me as a Catholic priest about my vow, claiming that in fact every man both themselves
should abstinence pledge obedience than another, not always, but them at the right time to exercise.
"

The Procurator

Narrative of Conversations of German Emigrants

(1795)

lived in an Italian seaside town past, a merchant, who from childhood
through Activity and intelligence distinguished.

He was doing a good sailor and had great riches acquired by ship
to Alexandria itself, to buy valuable goods or barter habit, which
he then home again to sell or the northern areas Europens Send to
know.

His fortune grew from year to year more so than he in his business
even the most pleasure and took him no time to uebrigblieb costly
distractions.

Until his fiftieth year, he had fortbeschaeftigt diligently in this way and it was of the social pleasures
were little known, quiet citizens by what their lives spice to understand, nor had the fair
sex, with all advantages of its Compatriots, his attention further than so far as he is its desire for jewelry
and valuables well knew and they knew how to use occasionally.

How little he knew it, therefore, on the change, which was going on in his mind; when one day
his richly laden ship sailed into the harbor of his native city, just a annual festival, which
was especially celebrated for the children. Boys and girls tended show after the religious services
in all sorts of disguises itself, sometimes in procession, sometimes
to frolic in droves through the city and then in the field on a large
open space all kinds of to drive games to show Kunststuecke and skills
and in-like contest exposed to win small prizes.

Initially lived with our celebration of this seaman with pleasure, but when he the love of life
of Children and the joy of the parents considered it long and so many people enjoy a present-had
found joy and the most pleasant of all hopes, he had to a return notice to itself be extremely lonely
state. His empty house started for the first time it to be quite timid, and he accused himself
in his thoughts:

"O most unhappy I go! Me why so late on the eyes, why do I know at the age those goods, which
alone make the people happy? So much effort! so much danger! What they have procured me? Are
equal to my vaults were full, my boxes full of noble metals and my closets full of jewelry
and gems, so can these cargoes but not my mind satisfy even cheer.

The more I accumulate, the more they seem to journeyman demand, a gem called the other a goldstueck
the other. They do not recognize me for the landlord, they call me to fury: "Go and make haste
create, our equals more achieve! Gold is enjoying only the gold, the jewel of the jewel. "So it put
me the whole time of my life, and only later I feel that I am in all this, no Enjoyment is prepared.
Unfortunately, now that the years to come, I begin to think and say to me: You do not enjoy
these treasures, and no one will enjoy for you! Have you ever had a beloved wife so decorated?
Do you have a daughter so equipped? Have you put a son in a position to win the affection of a
good girl and to fix? Never! Of all your Besitztuemern you have, no one of yours something
possessed, and what you have brought together tedious, is lightly after your death a stranger
squandered.

Oh, how different will gather tonight those lucky parents their children around the table, their
skills and encourage them to praise good deeds! What a pleasure gleams from their eyes, and
what hope seemed to spring from the present! If you can take for themselves but no hope? Might
you have already an old man? Is it not enough to see the failure, now that is not over till it come?
No, your age, it is foolish not to think about getting outdoors,
with your kindness will you buy a good wife and make her happy, and
do you have children in your Home, then give this fruit later the
biggest benefit, rather than that they often those which would do
to get them early from the sky, and be a burden to the confusion.

"

When he had secured through this Selbstgespraech his plan with him, he called two fellow ship
to him and opened them his thoughts. She, who had been accustomed, willing in all cases and
to be ready this time and was also missing rushed into the city after the latest and to ask
the most beautiful girl, for her patron, as he once chandeliers for that product was, should
have found the best.

He celebrated as little as his emissaries.

He was asked, I saw, heard and found soon, what he was looking for in a woman who at this moment the most
beautiful of all City deserved to be called, brought about sixteen years old, well educated and
well the shape and nature was the most pleasant and promised the best.

After a brief negotiation, through which the most favorable state,
both in his lifetime was assured when, after the death of the husband
of the beautiful, we took the marriage with great Glory and joy, and
from that day on, our merchant felt for the first time in real Possession
and enjoyment of their riches.

Now he related with pleasure the most beautiful and richest Materials for the clothing of the
beautiful body, very different from the jewels glittered on the breast and received in the hair
of his former lover as in Schmuckkaestchen, and the rings an infinite value of the hand, which
she wore.

He felt himself not only as rich, but richer than before by their possessions are by sympathy
and application seemed to increase. In this way, the couple lived almost one year in the biggest satisfaction,
and he seemed his love for a make and wandering life to the feeling of homely bliss reversed entirely
to have. But an old habit shall not be so easily, and a direction that we taken early, can
probably deflected some time, but never stopped completely.

Thus our merchant had times when he or others embark safely into the Port return saw again the
stirrings of his old passion felt by so he had even in his home alongside his wife sometimes
felt uneasiness and discontent. This desire increased with time and turned at last into such
a longing, that he had to feel extremely unhappy and most recently was really sick.

"What will become of you?" he said to himself, "You can find out now
how foolish it is to be reversed in later years, an old way of life
with a new one.

How should we what we have always driven and searched from our thoughts, even from our members
re-release? And how am I now that I now like a fish needs water, as a bird loved the open air,
because I am in a building with all treasures and the flower of riches and got locked up at a pretty
young woman? Instead of I hoped thereby to gain satisfaction and enjoy my goodness, it seems me that
I lose everything, as I acquire no more.

Unjustly, simply keep the people for goals, which seek to accumulate in restless activity cargoes
on goods, because the activity is happiness, and for those who can feel the joy of a continuous
desire to is the acquired wealth without meaning. For want of employment I will wretched, from
Lack of motion sick, and if I take no other decision, I am in a short Time close to death.

Of course it is a risky business to move away from a young, amiable woman. Is it cheap to a
lovely girl and irritable and to free them after a short Time to let yourself from boredom,
their feelings and desires? Walk this young, silken men not already in front of my windows up and
down? Look for them not already in the church and gardens in the attention of my female se to draw?
And what will happen if I'm away? Should I believe that my wife could be saved by a miracle? No,
at her age, would be in its constitution it is foolish to hope that they could refrain from the
pleasures of love. Do you remove you, will you at your Rueckkunft the tendency of thy wife,
and their loyalty at the same time with the glory of your house have
lost.

"

These considerations and doubts with which he struggled for a time worse, the State in which it
was in the extreme. His wife, his relatives and friends sad about him without being able to
discover cause of his illness would have. Finally he went back with him and cried for help
after some reflection: "foolish Man! It will let you so mad you are to preserve a woman, but
soon you when your evil persists leave, dying behind you and another must. Is not it at least
wiser and better, you seek to preserve life when you come in the same danger to their to lose
that which is estimated as the highest good for women? How many a man can use his presence for
the loss of this treasure and not stop missing patient get what he
can not!

Why you should not have the courage up such a good to dismiss depends because of this resolve
your life? "

With these words he took courage and called for his fellow ship. He wore them on, after the usual
way to charter a vehicle and to keep everything ready for that, when the sailing until favorable
winds could. Then he explained himself to his wife as follows:

"Do not surprise you when you see a movement in the house, from which you conclude can, that I
was preparing myself to leave! Nor grieve, if I confess I again remember to take a sea voyage!
My love for you is still the same, and they will certainly keep it in my whole life. I recognize
the value of the Luck, which I previously enjoyed by your side, and
it would still feel clean when I I do not often accusations of inaction
and negligence would have to make in secret.

My Pitch old wakes up again, and my old habit of pulling me in again. Allow me I again see the
market of Alexandria, which I visit now with greater zeal would, because I get to where the
most delicious fabrics and the finest treasures for you think.

I'll leave you in possession of all my goods and my fortune, makes use up to this and HAVE
FUN with your parents and relatives! The time spent away is also over, and with a far higher
pleasure we will meet again. "

Not without tears made him the amiable wife the tenderest accusations that assured that without
him they'll take no happy hours, and asked him only because she does not holders may want to restrict
even that he remember them even in the absence of the best may.

After it over with her some different shops, and home affairs spoken, he said after a pause: "I now
have something on your mind, of which you must allow me to speak freely, only I beg you most
sincerely, not to misinterpret, what I say, but even to recognize this concern in my love.
"

"I can guess it," Schoene said the fact, "you are worried because of me by you the type of men
our race once and for all think is weak. You got me previously known young and happy, and now you
think I careless in your absence and will be seduced.

I rebuke this disposition, for she is with you men Usually, but how do I know my heart, I can
assure you that nothing is so easy to feel should do to me and have no possible impression so
deep to me to derive from the way where I hinwandelte been at the hand of love and duty. Have
no worries, you shall your wife find so tender and true to your Rueckkunft
than you found it in the evening, if you test returns back after a
short absence in my arms.

"


"I have never felt myself under the necessity, madam, of studying how to extract the slender
portion of sense with which this family season their conversation."

"Necessity! and madam!--You surprise me, Mr. Osbaldistone."

"I am unfortunate in doing so."

"Am I to suppose that this capricious tone is serious? or is it only assumed, to make your
good-humour more valuable?"

"You have a right to the attention of so many gentlemen in this family, Miss Vernon, that it
cannot be worth your while to inquire into the cause of my stupidity and bad spirits."

"What!" she said, "am I to understand, then, that you have deserted my faction, and gone over
to the enemy?"

Then, looking across the table, and observing that Rashleigh, who was seated opposite, was
watching us with a singular expression of interest on his harsh features, she continued--

             "Horrible thought!--Ay, now I see 'tis true,
              For the grim-visaged Rashleigh smiles on me,
                     And points at thee for his!--

Well, thank Heaven, and the unprotected state which has taught me endurance, I do not take
offence easily; and that I may not be forced to quarrel, whether I like it or no, I have the
honour, earlier than usual, to wish you a happy digestion of your dinner and your bad humour."

And she left the table accordingly.

Upon Miss Vernon's departure, I found myself very little satisfied with my own conduct. I had
hurled back offered kindness, of which circumstances had but lately pointed out the honest
sincerity, and I had but just stopped short of insulting the beautiful, and, as she had said
with some emphasis, the unprotected being by whom it was proffered. My conduct seemed brutal
in my own eyes. To combat or drown these painful reflections, I applied myself more frequently
than usual to the wine which circulated on the table.

The agitated state of my feelings combined with my habits of temperance to give rapid effect
to the beverage. Habitual topers, I believe, acquire the power of soaking themselves with a
quantity of liquor that does little more than muddy those intellects which in their sober state
are none of the clearest; but men who are strangers to the vice of drunkenness as a habit,
are more powerfully acted upon by intoxicating liquors. My spirits, once aroused, became extravagant;
I talked a great deal, argued upon what I knew nothing of, told stories of which I forgot the
point, then laughed immoderately at my own forgetfulness; I accepted several bets without having
the least judgment; I challenged the giant John to wrestle with me, although he had kept the
ring at Hexham for a year, and I never tried so much as a single fall.

My uncle had the goodness to interpose and prevent this consummation of drunken folly, which,
I suppose, would have otherwise ended in my neck being broken. I was absurd enough without
this exaggeration. Without positively losing my senses, I speedily lost all command of my temper,
and my impetuous passions whirled me onward at their pleasure. I had sate down sulky and discontented,
and disposed to be silent--the wine rendered me loquacious, disputatious, and quarrelsome.
I contradicted whatever was asserted, and attacked, without any respect to my uncle's table,
both his politics and his religion. The affected moderation of Rashleigh, which he well knew
how to qualify with irritating ingredients, was even more provoking to me than the noisy and
bullying language of his obstreperous brothers. My uncle, to do him justice, endeavoured to
bring us to order; but his authority was lost amidst the tumult of wine and passion. At length,
frantic at some real or supposed injurious insinuation, I actually struck Rashleigh with my
fist. No Stoic philosopher, superior to his own passion and that of others, could have received
an insult with a higher degree of scorn. What he himself did not think it apparently worth
while to resent, Thorncliff resented for him. Swords were drawn, and we exchanged one or two
passes, when the other brothers separated us by main force; and I shall never forget the diabolical
sneer which writhed Rashleigh's wayward features, as I was forced from the apartment by the
main strength of two of these youthful Titans. They secured me in my apartment by locking the
door, and I heard them, to my inexpressible rage, laugh heartily as they descended the stairs.
I essayed in my fury to break out; but the window-grates, and the strength of a door clenched
with iron, resisted my efforts. At length I threw myself on my bed, and fell asleep amidst
vows of dire revenge to be taken in the ensuing day.

But with the morning cool repentance came. I felt, in the keenest manner, the violence and
absurdity of my conduct, and was obliged to confess that wine and passion had lowered my intellects
even below those of Wilfred Osbaldistone, whom I held in so much contempt. My uncomfortable
reflections were by no means soothed by meditating the necessity of an apology for my improper
behaviour, and recollecting that Miss Vernon must be a witness of my submission. The impropriety
and unkindness of my conduct to her personally, added not a little to these galling considerations,
and for this I could not even plead the miserable excuse of intoxication.

Under all these aggravating feelings of shame and degradation, I descended to the breakfast
hall, like a criminal to receive sentence. It chanced that a hard frost had rendered it impossible
to take out the hounds, so that I had the additional mortification to meet the family, excepting
only Rashleigh and Miss Vernon, in full divan, surrounding the cold venison pasty and chine
of beef. They were in high glee as I entered, and I could easily imagine that the jests were
furnished at my expense. In fact, what I was disposed to consider with serious pain, was regarded
as an excellent good joke by my uncle, and the greater part of my cousins. Sir Hildebrand,
while he rallied me on the exploits of the preceding evening, swore he thought a young fellow
had better be thrice drunk in one day, than sneak sober to bed like a Presbyterian, and leave
a batch of honest fellows, and a double quart of claret. And to back this consolatory speech,
he poured out a large bumper of brandy, exhorting me to swallow "a hair of the dog that had
bit me."

"Never mind these lads laughing, nevoy," he continued; "they would have been all as great milksops
as yourself, had I not nursed them, as one may say, on the toast and tankard."

Ill-nature was not the fault of my cousins in general; they saw I was vexed and hurt at the
recollections of the preceding evening, and endeavoured, with clumsy kindness, to remove the
painful impression they had made on me. Thorncliff alone looked sullen and unreconciled. This
young man had never liked me from the beginning; and in the marks of attention occasionally
shown me by his brothers, awkward as they were, he alone had never joined. If it was true,
of which, however, I began to have my doubts, that he was considered by the family, or regarded
himself, as the destined husband of Miss Vernon, a sentiment of jealousy might have sprung
up in his mind from the marked predilection which it was that young lady's pleasure to show
for one whom Thorncliff might, perhaps, think likely to become a dangerous rival.

Rashleigh at last entered, his visage as dark as mourning weed--brooding, I could not but doubt,
over the unjustifiable and disgraceful insult I had offered to him. I had already settled in
my own mind how I was to behave on the occasion, and had schooled myself to believe, that true
honour consisted not in defending, but in apologising for, an injury so much disproportioned
to any provocation I might have to allege.

I therefore hastened to meet Rashleigh, and to express myself in the highest degree sorry for
the violence with which I had acted on the preceding evening. "No circumstances," I said, "could
have wrung from me a single word of apology, save my own consciousness of the impropriety of
my behaviour. I hoped my cousin would accept of my regrets so sincerely offered, and consider
how much of my misconduct was owing to the excessive hospitality of Osbaldistone Hall."

"He shall be friends with thee, lad," cried the honest knight, in the full effusion of his
heart; "or d--n me, if I call him son more!--Why, Rashie, dost stand there like a log? Sorry
for it is all a gentleman can say, if he happens to do anything awry, especially over his claret.
I served in Hounslow, and should know something, I think, of affairs of honour. Let me hear
no more of this, and we'll go in a body and rummage out the badger in Birkenwood-bank."

Rashleigh's face resembled, as I have already noticed, no other countenance that I ever saw.
But this singularity lay not only in the features, but in the mode of changing their expression.
Other countenances, in altering from grief to joy, or from anger to satisfaction, pass through
some brief interval, ere the expression of the predominant passion supersedes entirely that
of its predecessor. There is a sort of twilight, like that between the clearing up of the darkness
and the rising of the sun, while the swollen muscles subside, the dark eye clears, the forehead
relaxes and expands itself, and the whole countenance loses its sterner shades, and becomes
serene and placid. Rashleigh's face exhibited none of these gradations, but changed almost
instantaneously from the expression of one passion to that of the contrary. I can compare it
to nothing but the sudden shifting of a scene in the theatre, where, at the whistle of the
prompter, a cavern disappears, and a grove arises.

My attention was strongly arrested by this peculiarity on the present occasion. At Rashleigh's
first entrance, "black he stood as night!" With the same inflexible countenance he heard my
excuse and his father's exhortation; and it was not until Sir Hildebrand had done speaking,
that the cloud cleared away at once, and he expressed, in the kindest and most civil terms,
his perfect satisfaction with the very handsome apology I had offered.

"Indeed," he said, "I have so poor a brain myself, when I impose on it the least burden beyond
my usual three glasses, that I have only, like honest Cassio, a very vague recollection of
the confusion of last night--remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly--a quarrel,
but nothing wherefore--So, my dear Cousin," he continued, shaking me kindly by the hand, "conceive
how much I am relieved by finding that I have to receive an apology, instead of having to make
one--I will not have a word said upon the subject more; I should be very foolish to institute
any scrutiny into an account, when the balance, which I expected to be against me, has been
so unexpectedly and agreeably struck in my favour. You see, Mr. Osbaldistone, I am practising
the language of Lombard Street, and qualifying myself for my new calling."

As I was about to answer, and raised my eyes for the purpose, they encountered those of Miss
Vernon, who, having entered the room unobserved during the conversation, had given it her close
attention. Abashed and confounded, I fixed my eyes on the ground, and made my escape to the
breakfast-table, where I herded among my busy cousins.

My uncle, that the events of the preceding day might not pass out of our memory without a practical
moral lesson, took occasion to give Rashleigh and me his serious advice to correct our milksop
habits, as he termed them, and gradually to inure our brains to bear a gentlemanlike quantity
of liquor, without brawls or breaking of heads. He recommended that we should begin piddling
with a regular quart of claret per day, which, with the aid of March beer and brandy, made
a handsome competence for a beginner in the art of toping. And for our encouragement, he assured
us that he had known many a man who had lived to our years without having drunk a pint of wine
at a sitting, who yet, by falling into honest company, and following hearty example, had afterwards
been numbered among the best good fellows of the time, and could carry off their six bottles
under their belt quietly and comfortably, without brawling or babbling, and be neither sick
nor sorry the next morning.

Sage as this advice was, and comfortable as was the prospect it held out to me, I profited
but little by the exhortation--partly, perhaps, because, as often as I raised my eyes from
the table, I observed Miss Vernon's looks fixed on me, in which I thought I could read grave
compassion blended with regret and displeasure. I began to consider how I should seek a scene
of explanation and apology with her also, when she gave me to understand she was determined
to save me the trouble of soliciting an interview. "Cousin Francis," she said, addressing me
by the same title she used to give to the other Osbaldistones, although I had, properly speaking,
no title to be called her kinsman, "I have encountered this morning a difficult passage in
the Divina Comme'dia of Dante; will you have the goodness to step to the library and give me
your assistance? and when you have unearthed for me the meaning of the obscure Florentine,
we will join the rest at Birkenwood-bank, and see their luck at unearthing the badger."

I signified, of course, my readiness to wait upon her. Rashleigh made an offer to accompany
us. "I am something better skilled," he said, "at tracking the sense of Dante through the metaphors
and elisions of his wild and gloomy poem, than at hunting the poor inoffensive hermit yonder
out of his cave."

"Pardon me, Rashleigh," said Miss Vernon, "but as you are to occupy Mr. Francis's place in
the counting-house, you must surrender to him the charge of your pupil's education at Osbaldistone
Hall. We shall call you in, however, if there is any occasion; so pray do not look so grave
upon it. Besides, it is a shame to you not to understand field-sports--What will you do should
our uncle in Crane-Alley ask you the signs by which you track a badger?"

"Ay, true, Die,--true," said Sir Hildebrand, with a sigh, "I misdoubt Rashleigh will be found
short at the leap when he is put to the trial. An he would ha' learned useful knowledge like
his brothers, he was bred up where it grew, I wuss; but French antics, and book-learning, with
the new turnips, and the rats, and the Hanoverians, ha' changed the world that I ha' known
in Old England--But come along with us, Rashie, and carry my hunting-staff, man; thy cousin
lacks none of thy company as now, and I wonna ha' Die crossed--It's ne'er be said there was
but one woman in Osbaldistone Hall, and she died for lack of her will."

Rashleigh followed his father, as he commanded, not, however, ere he had whispered to Diana,
"I suppose I must in discretion bring the courtier, Ceremony, in my company, and knock when
I approach the door of the library?"

"No, no, Rashleigh," said Miss Vernon; "dismiss from your company the false archimage Dissimulation,
and it will better ensure your free access to our classical consultations."

So saying, she led the way to the library, and I followed--like a criminal, I was going to
say, to execution; but, as I bethink me, I have used the simile once, if not twice before.
Without any simile at all, then, I followed, with a sense of awkward and conscious embarrassment,
which I would have given a great deal to shake off. I thought it a degrading and unworthy feeling
to attend one on such an occasion, having breathed the air of the Continent long enough to
have imbibed the notion that lightness, gallantry, and something approaching to well-bred self-assurance,
should distinguish the gentleman whom a fair lady selects for her companion in a tete-a-tete.

My English feelings, however, were too many for my French education, and I made, I believe,
a very pitiful figure, when Miss Vernon, seating herself majestically in a huge elbow-chair
in the library, like a judge about to hear a cause of importance, signed to me to take a chair
opposite to her (which I did, much like the poor fellow who is going to be tried), and entered
upon conversation in a tone of bitter irony.

CHAPTER THIRTEENTH.

              Dire was his thought, who first in poison steeped
              The weapon formed for slaughter--direr his,
                  And worthier of damnation, who instilled
                  The mortal venom in the social cup,
              To fill the veins with death instead of life.
                                                 Anonymous.

"Upon my Word, Mr. Francis Osbaldistone," said Miss Vernon, with the air of one who thought
herself fully entitled to assume the privilege of ironical reproach, which she was pleased
to exert, "your character improves upon us, sir--I could not have thought that it was in you.
Yesterday might be considered as your assay-piece, to prove yourself entitled to be free of
the corporation of Osbaldistone Hall. But it was a masterpiece."

"I am quite sensible of my ill-breeding, Miss Vernon, and I can only say for myself that I
had received some communications by which my spirits were unusually agitated. I am conscious
I was impertinent and absurd."

"You do yourself great injustice," said the merciless monitor--"you have contrived, by what
I saw and have since heard, to exhibit in the course of one evening a happy display of all
the various masterly qualifications which distinguish your several cousins;--the gentle and
generous temper of the benevolent Rashleigh,--the temperance of Percie,--the cool courage of
Thorncliff,--John's skill in dog-breaking,--Dickon's aptitude to betting,--all exhibited by
the single individual, Mr. Francis, and that with a selection of time, place, and circumstance,
worthy the taste and sagacity of the sapient Wilfred."

"Have a little mercy, Miss Vernon," said I; for I confess I thought the schooling as severe
as the case merited, especially considering from what quarter it came, "and forgive me if I
suggest, as an excuse for follies I am not usually guilty of, the custom of this house and
country. I am far from approving of it; but we have Shakspeare's authority for saying, that
good wine is a good familiar creature, and that any man living may be overtaken at some time."

"Ay, Mr. Francis, but he places the panegyric and the apology in the mouth of the greatest
villain his pencil has drawn. I will not, however, abuse the advantage your quotation has given
me, by overwhelming you with the refutation with which the victim Cassio replies to the tempter
Iago. I only wish you to know, that there is one person at least sorry to see a youth of talents
and expectations sink into the slough in which the inhabitants of this house are nightly wallowing."

"I have but wet my shoe, I assure you, Miss Vernon, and am too sensible of the filth of the
puddle to step farther in."

"If such be your resolution," she replied, "it is a wise one. But I was so much vexed at what
I heard, that your concerns have pressed before my own,--You behaved to me yesterday, during
dinner, as if something had been told you which lessened or lowered me in your opinion--I beg
leave to ask you what it was?"

I was stupified. The direct bluntness of the demand was much in the style one gentleman uses
to another, when requesting explanation of any part of his conduct in a good-humoured yet determined
manner, and was totally devoid of the circumlocutions, shadings, softenings, and periphrasis,
which usually accompany explanations betwixt persons of different sexes in the higher orders
of society.

I remained completely embarrassed; for it pressed on my recollection, that Rashleigh's communications,
supposing them to be correct, ought to have rendered Miss Vernon rather an object of my compassion
than of my pettish resentment; and had they furnished the best apology possible for my own
conduct, still I must have had the utmost difficulty in detailing what inferred such necessary
and natural offence to Miss Vernon's feelings. Not only because the normative incompleteness and the problem of the novel, a historical-philosophical
real form is born and as a sign of its legitimacy its substrate, the true state of current mental
achieved, but because his type of process only in content, the seclusion excludes, however, are a form of
a floating, but surely floating balance of and being represented, is an idea of ​​becoming the
state and thus to his normative of becoming abolishes transforming, "has begun the road, completed"
the journey.

This "half art," writes thus a more rigorous and unfailing artistic legitimacy are before, "as
the" closed forms, and these laws more binding, the more it their Very nature, indefinable and unformulierbar
are: there are laws of the clock. Tact and taste, in and of itself subordinate categories that
belong entirely to the bare sphere of life and itself a major ethical world over are of no
consequence here to win a large and constitutive significance: it merely by the subjectivity
of the beginning and end of the Roman totality able to keep in balance, objectivity as a normative
epic to share and so overcome the abstractness, the danger of this form. Because the risk can
be speak out like this: where the ethics of content and not merely as formal a priori, the
to take up a shape, and if not, as in the epic ages, a coincidence or at least a significant convergence
between ethics as a factor and their inner life Action substrate is placed in the structures, the
risk here, that instead of a existent Totality of a subjective aspect of it, the great epic
of the required attitude to receptive objectivity is designed trübend or even destructive. This
danger is not To work around, but only to overcome from within. Because this subjectivity is
not eliminated, if they remain unspoken, or if it transforms into a will to objectivity is: this
silence and this effort are more subjective than the open emergence a clear conscious subjectivity,
and therefore, again in the Hegelian sense, even more abstract.

The self-knowledge and thus the self-annihilation of subjectivity was the first theorists of the novel,
the aesthetic of early romanticism, irony mentioned. It means as a formal constituent the novel form,
an internal split of the normative subject in a poetic subjectivity as inwardness, facing the
foreign power complexes and the strange world the content impress their desire is anxious, and
in a subjectivity, the abstract and therefore, the limitations of the other alien subject and
object worlds, sees through this in her, as needs and conditions of their concept of existence,
boundaries understands and through this see through the duality of the world can indeed exist,
but also in the reciprocal conditioning of one another essentially foreign elements, a single
world sees and designed. This unit is a purely formal, and the alienation and hostility the inner
and the outer world is not canceled, but only as necessary detected, and the subject of this knowledge
is just as an empirical world that is prejudiced and in the inner limited subject, such as
those that have become his objects. This makes the irony all cold and abstract superiority,
the objective form of the subjective, constrict the satire and the totality of the issue would,
because it forces the looking and creative apply subject, his knowledge of the world to himself, herself,
just as his creatures, to take as a free object of the irony-free, briefly: in a purely receiving,
to transform into the great epic for the normatively prescribed subject.

This irony is the self-correction of the fragility: the inappropriate
relationships could a fantastic and well-ordered round of misunderstandings
and passing each other Transform where all is seen by many sides,
as isolated and Affiliate, as the carrier the value and as a nullity,
as abstract as its most concrete segregation and independent existence,
as stunting and when flowering, as suffering on and as suffering.

It is on a qualitatively new basis completely back to a position of life, of the insoluble intricacy
of the relative independence of the parts and their Bondage to the whole. Only the parts that
despite this bond never the hardness of their abstract can on-lost-Placed
One and its relation to the totality of one while the organic as approximate,
but yet again is repealed and no conceptual relationship real born
organics.

This was considered compositional means that the people and action dimensions While the immensity
of the real epic material, have their structure but by the the epic is much different. The structural
difference in these basically conceptual Pseudoorganik of the novel substance is expressed is that between
a homogeneous organic Steadiness and a heterogenous-contingent discretum. Because of this contingency
is the relatively separate parts independent, self-rounded than that of the epic and must therefore
by means that transcend their simple existence, are inserted into the whole in order not to blow. You
must otherwise as in the epic, a strict compositional and architectural Meaning, whether as
a counter lighting of the problem, as the short stories in "Don Quixote" be it hidden as a prelude
onset, but for the end key subjects, such The Confessions of a Beautiful Soul ", their existence
is simple but never by her Being justified. This ability to discrete independent existence of the
united only compositional Parts is of course relevant only as a symptom, is by the totality of
the structure of the novel most visible, it is necessary in and of itself not at all that any
good This extreme consequence of its novel structure having, and the attempt to the problem to overcome
the novel form, by its exclusive focus on this their nature, must even lead to artificiality,
to the distinctness of the composition, as in the Romantic or first in Paul Ernst's novel.

Because of the contingency, this is only a symptom, it is evident just a fact that necessarily always
and everywhere present, but by artfully ironic mode of composition with again revealed a semblance
of organic matter is obscured: the outer form of the novel is an essential biography. Hovering between
a conceptual system, the life always slips away, and a life complex, never to rest his immanent
utopian Completion can reach, can be objectified only in the organic sought the biography. For
a world situation where the organic category is the overriding of the entire being, It would seem
a foolish rape just its organic nature, if the individuality of a
living being in their bounding limits of the point the stylization
and the center of design would make.

And for a global age constitutive systems is the best meaning of a single life, never more than a For
example, it is not in charge and present as a substrate of the values ​​if such a plan could
arise at all, would be ridiculous to arrogance. In the biographical Form, the individual who
designed the individual, a weight, for the universal rule of life difficult for the system would
be too easy, a degree of isolation, for this is too large, would be meaningless to those,
a reference to the event he supported and realized Ideally, the points for this too, would be insufficient
for those subordinate. In the biographical Form, the unattainable, both sentimental desire for
the immediate unity of life, as after all the final architecture of the system to rest and
balance brought to being transformed. For the central figure of the biography is only through their
relationship to be important about them uplifting world of ideals, but this is also the only
Impact through their lives in this individual and by this experience realized. So arises in
the biographical form of the balance of the two non-realized and in their isolation is not capable
of achieving a new and separate spheres of life, in itself - though paradoxically - finished
and inherently meaningful life: the life of the problematic individual.

Contingent world and each other are problematic individual interdependent realities. If the individual
is not a problem, he's objectives in the immediate evidence are given and have made the world, the
structure of the same goals realized, it can provide for their Achieving only difficulties and obstacles
are, but never a serious internal Danger. The danger arises only when the outside world no
longer applied in relation to the ideas Is when they are in man to subjective psychological facts
on ideals. By as reachable and - in an empirical sense - as unreal-Place of Ideas, by their
Transformation in ideals is the immediate, problem-torn bodies of individuality. She's become
a target for themselves because they see what it is essentially what their lives the actual life
does, though in itself, but not as a possession and the basis of life, but as to search finds
the end. The environment of the individual is only one substance and other substrate material
of the same categorical forms giving rise to his inner world: the
unbridgeable gap between reality and Ought-existent ideal must, therefore,
the different material only in accordance with the structural diversity,
the essence the outside world make.

This difference is reflected most clearly in the pure negativity of the ideal. While is just as indigenous
to the subjective world of the soul as the ideal the other spiritual realities, though it is on the
level to which the experience appears depressed, and so direct and positive content can also
emerge, reveals the gap between reality and ideal in the human environment, only in the absence of
the ideal and this causes inherent in the self-criticism of simple reality: the self-disclosure
of their invalidity without immanent ideal.

The appearance of this self-destruction, which in its simple givenness an entirely mental dialectic
and not direct, poetic and sensual evidence which is a twofold. First, the lack of coherence between
the inner and their substrate activity, which must stand out more sharply so, the true inwardness
is, the closer their sources the ideals are the soul to become ideas of being. Second, the
inability of these World, to round out their ideal foreign hostility towards inwardness really;
the inability, both for themselves as a whole in the form of totality, as for the relationship
to its elements and their relationship with each other to find the coherence. Anders words the
indescribable. The parts of both as the whole of such outside world escape the forms of direct
sensual design. You win only one life, if either of experiencing inwardness of the lost people
in them, or the creative-looking view of the performing subjectivity of the poet in relation
can be brought, and if they are on matters on the mood or reflection. This is the formal reason
and the poetic justification of the request to the romantic Roman, that he in all forms coalescing
pure poetry and pure thoughts into its constitution, is scheduled to start. The discrete nature
of reality requires, paradoxically, just to the epic importance and
valence of sensory involvement in and for the sake of these is part
of epics, some of the compositions of all alien elements.

And exhausted its role not in the lyrical atmosphere and the nascent significance that they would
otherwise prosaic isolated and unreal events lend, but the last, all cohesive Basis of the whole
can be seen only in them: the totality constituting the system the regulative ideas. The discrete structure
of the external world, rests ultimately on that the system of ideas of reality over has only
one regulatory authority. Not penetrate the-take- of ideas in the interior of the reality makes
it the heterogeneous discretum and creates for precisely the same ratio an even deeper need for
elements of reality driven relationship to the system of ideas than was the case in the world
of Dante. There was any Release by the allocation of their place in the immediate Weltarchitektonik
geradeso Life and the sense given how the Homeric in the world of organics in every manifestation
of life were present in complete immanence.

The process, which as the inner form of the novel was conceived, the migration of problem Individual
to himself, the path from the gloomy bias in the single-existent, heterogeneous in itself, meaningless
to the individual reality of clear self-knowledge. After this Attain self-knowledge seems indeed
found the ideal as the meaning of life in the Lebensimmanenz in, but the conflict between being
and ought not be repealed and is also in the sphere where this is going on, not abandoned in
the life sphere of the novel be, only a maximum of convergence, a very deep and intense Durchleuchtetsein
of People from the meaning of life is attainable. The form required immanence of meaning is made by
his experience, that this mere sight of the meaning is the highest that the to give life, the only thing
is the onset of a whole life worthy of the only thing is this fight worth it. The process involves
a human life and its normative content, the way to self-knowledge of a person, is also its direction
and given its size. The inner form of the process and their most appropriate design option,
the biographical form shows most clearly the great difference between the discrete infinity of the novel substance
and the infinity of the continuum-like substance of the epic. This boundless has a bad infinity
and therefore requires limits to the form, while the infinity of the epic material purely an
internal, organic, in itself worth supporting and worth stressing is that sets their border,
and from within, for the outer Infinity of the scale, almost indifferent, only one episode is
more than a symptom.


"Amen, my fair cousin," he replied, with an air of sanctity, which belonged, I thought, to
the seminary of Saint Omers; "happy is he whose good intentions have borne fruit in deeds,
and whose evil thoughts have perished in the blossom."

These were his parting words. "Accomplished hypocrite!" said Miss Vernon to me, as the door
closed behind him--"how nearly can what we most despise and hate, approach in outward manner
to that which we most venerate!"

I had written to my father by Rashleigh, and also a few lines to Owen, besides the confidential
letter which I have already mentioned, and which I thought it more proper and prudent to despatch
by another conveyance. In these epistles, it would have been natural for me to have pointed
out to my father and my friend, that I was at present in a situation where I could improve
myself in no respect, unless in the mysteries of hunting and hawking; and where I was not unlikely
to forget, in the company of rude grooms and horse-boys, any useful knowledge or elegant accomplishments
which I had hitherto acquired. It would also have been natural that I should have expressed
the disgust and tedium which I was likely to feel among beings whose whole souls were centred
in field-sports or more degrading pastimes--that I should have complained of the habitual intemperance
of the family in which I was a guest, and the difficulty and almost resentment with which my
uncle, Sir Hildebrand, received any apology for deserting the bottle. This last, indeed, was
a topic on which my father, himself a man of severe temperance, was likely to be easily alarmed,
and to have touched upon this spring would to a certainty have opened the doors of my prison-house,
and would either have been the means of abridging my exile, or at least would have procured
me a change of residence during my rustication.

I say, my dear Tresham, that, considering how very unpleasant a prolonged residence at Osbaldistone
Hall must have been to a young man of my age, and with my habits, it might have seemed very
natural that I should have pointed out all these disadvantages to my father, in order to obtain
his consent for leaving my uncle's mansion. Nothing, however, is more certain, than that I
did not say a single word to this purpose in my letters to my father and Owen. If Osbaldistone
Hall had been Athens in all its pristine glory of learning, and inhabited by sages, heroes,
and poets, I could not have expressed less inclination to leave it.

If thou hast any of the salt of youth left in thee, Tresham, thou wilt be at no loss to account
for my silence on a topic seemingly so obvious. Miss Vernon's extreme beauty, of which she
herself seemed so little conscious--her romantic and mysterious situation--the evils to which
she was exposed--the courage with which she seemed to face them--her manners, more frank than
belonged to her sex, yet, as it seemed to me, exceeding in frankness only from the dauntless
consciousness of her innocence,--above all, the obvious and flattering distinction which she
made in my favour over all other persons, were at once calculated to interest my best feelings,
to excite my curiosity, awaken my imagination, and gratify my vanity. I dared not, indeed,
confess to myself the depth of the interest with which Miss Vernon inspired me, or the large
share which she occupied in my thoughts. We read together, walked together, rode together,
and sate together. The studies which she had broken off upon her quarrel with Rashleigh, she
now resumed, under the auspices of a tutor whose views were more sincere, though his capacity
was far more limited.

In truth, I was by no means qualified to assist her in the prosecution of several profound
studies which she had commenced with Rashleigh, and which appeared to me more fitted for a
churchman than for a beautiful female. Neither can I conceive with what view he should have
engaged Diana in the gloomy maze of casuistry which schoolmen called philosophy, or in the
equally abstruse though more certain sciences of mathematics and astronomy; unless it were
to break down and confound in her mind the difference and distinction between the sexes, and
to habituate her to trains of subtle reasoning, by which he might at his own time invest that
which is wrong with the colour of that which is right. It was in the same spirit, though in
the latter case the evil purpose was more obvious, that the lessons of Rashleigh had encouraged
Miss Vernon in setting at nought and despising the forms and ceremonial limits which are drawn
round females in modern society. It is true, she was sequestrated from all female company,
and could not learn the usual rules of decorum, either from example or precept; yet such was
her innate modesty, and accurate sense of what was right and wrong, that she would not of herself
have adopted the bold uncompromising manner which struck me with so much surprise on our first
acquaintance, had she not been led to conceive that a contempt of ceremony indicated at once
superiority of understanding and the confidence of conscious innocence. Her wily instructor
had, no doubt, his own views in levelling those outworks which reserve and caution erect around
virtue. But for these, and for his other crimes, he has long since answered at a higher tribunal.

Besides the progress which Miss Vernon, whose powerful mind readily adopted every means of
information offered to it, had made in more abstract science, I found her no contemptible linguist,
and well acquainted both with ancient and modern literature. Were it not that strong talents
will often go farthest when they seem to have least assistance, it would be almost incredible
to tell the rapidity of Miss Vernon's progress in knowledge; and it was still more extraordinary,
when her stock of mental acquisitions from books was compared with her total ignorance of actual
life. It seemed as if she saw and knew everything, except what passed in the world around her;--and
I believe it was this very ignorance and simplicity of thinking upon ordinary subjects, so
strikingly contrasted with her fund of general knowledge and information, which rendered her
conversation so irresistibly fascinating, and rivetted the attention to whatever she said or
did; since it was absolutely impossible to anticipate whether her next word or action was to
display the most acute perception, or the most profound simplicity. The degree of danger which
necessarily attended a youth of my age and keen feelings from remaining in close and constant
intimacy with an object so amiable, and so peculiarly interesting, all who remember their own
sentiments at my age may easily estimate.

CHAPTER FOURTEENTH.

                 Yon lamp its line of quivering light
                      Shoots from my lady's bower;
                 But why should Beauty's lamp be bright
                      At midnight's lonely hour?
                                          OLD BALLAD.

The mode of life at Osbaldistone Hall was too uniform to admit of description. Diana Vernon
and I enjoyed much of our time in our mutual studies; the rest of the family killed theirs
in such sports and pastimes as suited the seasons, in which we also took a share. My uncle
was a man of habits, and by habit became so much accustomed to my presence and mode of life,
that, upon the whole, he was rather fond of me than otherwise. I might probably have risen
yet higher in his good graces, had I employed the same arts for that purpose which were used
by Rashleigh, who, availing himself of his father's disinclination to business, had gradually
insinuated himself into the management of his property. But although I readily gave my uncle
the advantage of my pen and my arithmetic so often as he desired to correspond with a neighbour,
or settle with a tenant, and was, in so far, a more useful inmate in his family than any of
his sons, yet I was not willing to oblige Sir Hildebrand by relieving him entirely from the
management of his own affairs; so that, while the good knight admitted that nevoy Frank was
a steady, handy lad, he seldom failed to remark in the same breath, that he did not think he
should ha' missed Rashleigh so much as he was like to do.

As it is particularly unpleasant to reside in a family where we are at variance with any part
of it, I made some efforts to overcome the ill-will which my cousins entertained against me.
I exchanged my laced hat for a jockey-cap, and made some progress in their opinion; I broke
a young colt in a manner which carried me further into their good graces. A bet or two opportunely
lost to Dickon, and an extra health pledged with Percie, placed me on an easy and familiar
footing with all the young squires, except Thorncliff.

I have already noticed the dislike entertained against me by this young fellow, who, as he
had rather more sense, had also a much worse temper, than any of his brethren. Sullen, dogged,
and quarrelsome, he regarded my residence at Osbaldistone Hall as an intrusion, and viewed
with envious and jealous eyes my intimacy with Diana Vernon, whom the effect proposed to be
given to a certain family-compact assigned to him as an intended spouse. That he loved her,
could scarcely be said, at least without much misapplication of the word; but he regarded her
as something appropriated to himself, and resented internally the interference which he knew
not how to prevent or interrupt. I attempted a tone of conciliation towards Thorncliff on several
occasions; but he rejected my advances with a manner about as gracious as that of a growling
mastiff, when the animal shuns and resents a stranger's attempts to caress him. I therefore
abandoned him to his ill-humour, and gave myself no further trouble about the matter.

Such was the footing upon which I stood with the family at Osbaldistone Hall; but I ought to
mention another of its inmates with whom I occasionally held some discourse. This was Andrew
Fairservice, the gardener who (since he had discovered that I was a Protestant) rarely suffered
me to pass him without proffering his Scotch mull for a social pinch. There were several advantages
attending this courtesy. In the first place, it was made at no expense, for I never took snuff;
and secondly, it afforded an excellent apology to Andrew (who was not particularly fond of
hard labour) for laying aside his spade for several minutes. But, above all, these brief interviews
gave Andrew an opportunity of venting the news he had collected, or the satirical remarks which
his shrewd northern humour suggested.

"I am saying, sir," he said to me one evening, with a face obviously charged with intelligence,
"I hae been down at the Trinlay-knowe."

"Well, Andrew, and I suppose you heard some news at the alehouse?"

"Na, sir; I never gang to the yillhouse--that is unless ony neighbour was to gie me a pint,
or the like o' that; but to gang there on ane's ain coat-tail, is a waste o' precious time
and hard-won siller.--But I was doun at the Trinlay-knowe, as I was saying, about a wee bit
business o' my ain wi' Mattie Simpson, that wants a forpit or twa o' peers that will never
be missed in the Ha'-house--and when we were at the thrangest o' our bargain, wha suld come
in but Pate Macready the travelling merchant?"

"Pedlar, I suppose you mean?"

"E'en as your honour likes to ca' him; but it's a creditable calling and a gainfu', and has
been lang in use wi' our folk. Pate's a far-awa cousin o' mine, and we were blythe to meet
wi' ane anither."

"And you went and had a jug of ale together, I suppose, Andrew?--For Heaven's sake, cut short
your story."

"Bide a wee--bide a wee; you southrons are aye in sic a hurry, and this is something concerns
yourself, an ye wad tak patience to hear't--Yill?--deil a drap o' yill did Pate offer me; but
Mattie gae us baith a drap skimmed milk, and ane o' her thick ait jannocks, that was as wat
and raw as a divot. O for the bonnie girdle cakes o' the north!--and sae we sat doun and took
out our clavers."

"I wish you would take them out just now. Pray, tell me the news, if you have got any worth
telling, for I can't stop here all night."

"Than, if ye maun hae't, the folk in Lunnun are a' clean wud about this bit job in the north here."

"Clean wood! what's that?"

"Ou, just real daft--neither to haud nor to bind--a' hirdy-girdy--clean through ither--the
deil's ower Jock Wabster."

"But what does all this mean? or what business have I with the devil or Jack Webster?"

"Umph!" said Andrew, looking extremely knowing, "it's just because--just that the dirdum's
a' about yon man's pokmanty."

"Whose portmanteau? or what do you mean?"

"Ou, just the man Morris's, that he said he lost yonder: but if it's no your honour's affair,
as little is it mine; and I mauna lose this gracious evening."

And, as if suddenly seized with a violent fit of industry, Andrew began to labour most diligently.

My attention, as the crafty knave had foreseen, was now arrested, and unwilling, at the same
time, to acknowledge any particular interest in that affair, by asking direct questions, I
stood waiting till the spirit of voluntary communication should again prompt him to resume
his story. Andrew dug on manfully, and spoke at intervals, but nothing to the purpose of Mr.
Macready's news; and I stood and listened, cursing him in my heart, and desirous at the same
time to see how long his humour of contradiction would prevail over his desire of speaking
upon the subject which was obviously uppermost in his mind.

"Am trenching up the sparry-grass, and am gaun to saw some Misegun beans; they winna want them
to their swine's flesh, I'se warrant--muckle gude may it do them. And siclike dung as the grieve
has gien me!--it should be wheat-strae, or aiten at the warst o't, and it's pease dirt, as
fizzenless as chuckie-stanes. But the huntsman guides a' as he likes about the stable-yard,
and he's selled the best o' the litter, I'se warrant. But, howsoever, we mauna lose a turn
o' this Saturday at e'en, for the wather's sair broken, and if there's a fair day in seven,
Sunday's sure to come and lick it up--Howsomever, I'm no denying that it may settle, if it
be Heaven's will, till Monday morning,--and what's the use o' my breaking my back at this rate?--I
think, I'll e'en awa' hame, for yon's the curfew, as they ca' their jowing-in bell."

Accordingly, applying both his hands to his spade, he pitched it upright in the trench which
he had been digging and, looking at me with the air of superiority of one who knows himself
possessed of important information, which he may communicate or refuse at his pleasure, pulled
down the sleeves of his shirt, and walked slowly towards his coat, which lay carefully folded
up upon a neighbouring garden-seat.

"I must pay the penalty of having interrupted the tiresome rascal," thought I to myself, "and
even gratify Mr. Fairservice by taking his communication on his own terms." Then raising my
voice, I addressed him,--"And after all, Andrew, what are these London news you had from your
kinsman, the travelling merchant?"

"The pedlar, your honour means?" retorted Andrew--"but ca' him what ye wull, they're a great
convenience in a country-side that's scant o' borough-towns like this Northumberland--That's
no the case, now, in Scotland;--there's the kingdom of Fife, frae Culross to the East Nuik,
it's just like a great combined city--sae mony royal boroughs yoked on end to end, like ropes
of ingans, with their hie-streets and their booths, nae doubt, and their kraemes, and houses
of stane and lime and fore-stairs--Kirkcaldy, the sell o't, is langer than ony town in England."

"I daresay it is all very splendid and very fine--but you were talking of the London news a
little while ago, Andrew."

"Ay," replied Andrew; "but I dinna think your honour cared to hear about them--Howsoever" (he
continued, grinning a ghastly smile), "Pate Macready does say, that they are sair mistrysted
yonder in their Parliament House about this rubbery o' Mr. Morris, or whatever they ca' the chiel."

"In the House of Parliament, Andrew!--how came they to mention it there?"

"Ou, that's just what I said to Pate; if it like your honour, I'll tell you the very words;
it's no worth making a lie for the matter--'Pate,' said I, 'what ado had the lords and lairds
and gentles at Lunnun wi' the carle and his walise?--When we had a Scotch Parliament, Pate,'
says I (and deil rax their thrapples that reft us o't!) 'they sate dousely down and made laws
for a haill country and kinrick, and never fashed their beards about things that were competent
to the judge ordinar o' the bounds; but I think,' said I, 'that if ae kailwife pou'd aff her
neighbour's mutch they wad hae the twasome o' them into the Parliament House o' Lunnun. It's
just,' said I, 'amaist as silly as our auld daft laird here and his gomerils o' sons, wi' his
huntsmen and his hounds, and his hunting cattle and horns, riding haill days after a bit beast
that winna weigh sax punds when they hae catched it.'"

"You argued most admirably, Andrew," said I, willing to encourage him to get into the marrow
of his intelligence; "and what said Pate?"

"Ou," he said, "what better could be expected of a wheen pock-pudding English folk?--But as
to the robbery, it's like that when they're a' at the thrang o' their Whig and Tory wark, and
ca'ing ane anither, like unhanged blackguards--up gets ae lang-tongued chield, and he says,
that a' the north of England were rank Jacobites (and, quietly, he wasna far wrang maybe),
and that they had levied amaist open war, and a king's messenger had been stoppit and rubbit
on the highway, and that the best bluid o' Northumberland had been at the doing o't--and mickle
gowd ta'en aff him, and mony valuable papers; and that there was nae redress to be gotten by
remeed of law for the first justice o' the peace that the rubbit man gaed to, he had fund the
twa loons that did the deed birling and drinking wi' him, wha but they; and the justice took
the word o' the tane for the compearance o' the tither; and that they e'en gae him leg-bail,
and the honest man that had lost his siller was fain to leave the country for fear that waur
had come of it."

"Can this be really true?" said I.

"Pate swears it's as true as that his ellwand is a yard lang--(and so it is, just bating an
inch, that it may meet the English measure)--And when the chield had said his warst, there
was a terrible cry for names, and out comes he wi' this man Morris's name, and your uncle's,
and Squire Inglewood's, and other folk's beside" (looking sly at me)--"And then another dragon
o' a chield got up on the other side, and said, wad they accuse the best gentleman in the land
on the oath of a broken coward?--for it's like that Morris had been drummed out o' the army
for rinning awa in Flanders; and he said, it was like the story had been made up between the
minister and him or ever he had left Lunnun; and that, if there was to be a search-warrant
granted, he thought the siller wad be fund some gate near to St. James's Palace. Aweel, they
trailed up Morris to their bar, as they ca't, to see what he could say to the job; but the
folk that were again him, gae him sic an awfu' throughgaun about his rinnin' awa, and about
a' the ill he had ever dune or said for a' the forepart o' his life, that Patie says he looked
mair like ane dead than living; and they cou'dna get a word o' sense out o' him, for downright
fright at their growling and routing. He maun be a saft sap, wi' a head nae better than a fozy
frosted turnip--it wad hae ta'en a hantle o' them to scaur Andrew Fairservice out o' his tale."

"And how did it all end, Andrew? did your friend happen to learn?"

"Ou, ay; for as his walk is in this country, Pate put aff his journey for the space of a week
or thereby, because it wad be acceptable to his customers to bring down the news. It's just
a' gaed aft like moonshine in water. The fallow that began it drew in his horns, and said,
that though he believed the man had been rubbit, yet he acknowledged he might hae been mista'en
about the particulars. And then the other chield got up, and said, he caredna whether Morris
was rubbed or no, provided it wasna to become a stain on ony gentleman's honour and reputation,
especially in the north of England; for, said he before them, I come frae the north mysell,
and I carena a boddle wha kens it. And this is what they ca' explaining--the tane gies up a
bit, and the tither gies up a bit, and a' friends again. Aweel, after the Commons' Parliament
had tuggit, and rived, and rugged at Morris and his rubbery till they were tired o't, the Lords'
Parliament they behoved to hae their spell o't. In puir auld Scotland's Parliament they a'
sate thegither, cheek by choul, and than they didna need to hae the same blethers twice ower
again. But till't their lordships went wi' as muckle teeth and gude-will, as if the matter
had been a' speck and span new. Forbye, there was something said about ane Campbell, that suld
hae been concerned in the rubbery, mair or less, and that he suld hae had a warrant frae the
Duke of Argyle, as a testimonial o' his character. And this put MacCallum More's beard in a
bleize, as gude reason there was; and he gat up wi' an unco bang, and garr'd them a' look about
them, and wad ram it even doun their throats, there was never ane o' the Campbells but was
as wight, wise, warlike, and worthy trust, as auld Sir John the Graeme. Now, if your honour's
sure ye arena a drap's bluid a-kin to a Campbell, as I am nane mysell, sae far as I can count
my kin, or hae had it counted to me, I'll gie ye my mind on that matter."

"You may be assured I have no connection whatever with any gentleman of the name."

"Ou, than we may speak it quietly amang oursells. There's baith gude and bad o' the Campbells,
like other names, But this MacCallum More has an unco sway and say baith, amang the grit folk
at Lunnun even now; for he canna preceesely be said to belang to ony o' the twa sides o' them,
sae deil any o' them likes to quarrel wi' him; sae they e'en voted Morris's tale a fause calumnious
libel, as they ca't, and if he hadna gien them leg-bail, he was likely to hae ta'en the air
on the pillory for leasing-making."

So speaking, honest Andrew collected his dibbles, spades, and hoes, and threw them into a wheel-barrow,--leisurely,
however, and allowing me full time to put any further questions which might occur to me before
he trundled them off to the tool-house, there to repose during the ensuing day. I thought it
best to speak out at once, lest this meddling fellow should suppose there were more weighty
reasons for my silence than actually existed.

"I should like to see this countryman of yours, Andrew and to hear his news from himself directly.
You have probably heard that I had some trouble from the impertinent folly of this man Morris"
(Andrew grinned a most significant grin), "and I should wish to see your cousin the merchant,
to ask him the particulars of what he heard in London, if it could be done without much trouble."

"Naething mair easy," Andrew observed; "he had but to hint to his cousin that I wanted a pair
or twa o' hose, and he wad be wi' me as fast as he could lay leg to the grund."

"O yes, assure him I shall be a customer; and as the night is, as you say, settled and fair,
I shall walk in the garden until he comes; the moon will soon rise over the fells. You may
bring him to the little back-gate; and I shall have pleasure, in the meanwhile, in looking
on the bushes and evergreens by the bright frosty moonlight."

"Vara right, vara right--that's what I hae aften said; a kail-blade, or a colliflour, glances
sae glegly by moonlight, it's like a leddy in her diamonds." Since the fight was long in the same place, then piled the bodies dark of men
and horses, and rivers of blood stained the street.

Soon nothing could withstand the massive onslaught of the guilds, because with the course LELIAERT
of their enemies were able to spread in the market and now all in the Fight intervene. Apparently
they tried to surround the rider and therefore extended their right Leaves up to the egg market.
Now faces the defeated knights horse, and fled hastily, to escape the threat of death. The weavers
and butchers they pursued victory with cries; but they could not
overtake them because they were all well mounted.

At the sound of trumpets and the noise of the fight the whole town had fallen into turmoil.
Soon everything was on its feet. Thousands of armed citizens flocked from all streets, to assist
the contending brothers, but the victory was already gained.

Since the LELIAERT had fled to the castle, so this place was surrounded by cronies and rings
guarded.

While this TOOK PLACE in the market, surrounded the Governor Châtillon the rebellious City of
five hundred French horsemen. He had foreseen that the Bruges in the old Custom the city gates
would be kept closed and therefore the necessary steps to eliminate this obstacle prepared. His
brother Gui de Saint-Pol had with numerous infantry and initiate the necessary machinery to
attack him. In anticipation of this help, he has designed a plan for the storm and looked for
the weakest side of the city to be identified. Although He saw little men on the ramparts, he
thought it not advisable, with riders to do something alone, for he knew what lived for an unruly
people in Bruges. Half an hour later appeared in the distance the train Saint-Pol. The tips
of the spears and the battle-axes gleamed in the first rays of the sun, and an impenetrable
cloud of dust rose before the horses that pulled the storm tools. The few citizens that the Gates
and ramparts guarded, watched, not without fear of the many nearby clusters. When they the
heavy beams and storm tools were in sight, she crept a sense of foreboding.

In a few Moments the terrible news spread through the city, and the hearts of Women grabbed pain and
fear.

The armed men were still guild gathered around the castle, when the news of the approaching enemy's
army surprised them. They left some teams on the field to to prevent a failure of the entrenched
LELIAERT ran hurriedly to the ramparts and distributed be threatened on the walls. When they
saw how the French soldiers already bar joined together to the terrible tools that they became
anxious about their own country. The besiegers worked at some distance from the walls of the
city and were outside the scope of Arrows to be thrown to them from there. Still they continued
their work while Châtillon with his horsemen any failure of the citizens prevented. Soon arose because
already in the camp of the French high towers with drawbridges; storm ramming and ballista were almost
finished, and everything announced the Bruges a terrible fate. Despite the large Danger was the
faces of the people guild noted no cowardly fear. Rigid and motionless, gazing it on the enemy.
Their hearts beat faster, and flew her breath, but that was only the first Impression at the sight
of the enemy's camp.

Soon the blood flowed more freely in her veins, they needed without taking his eyes from the
enemy; manly fire glowed on her cheeks, and the hearts of all citizens were motivated by revenge
and heroism.

One man was cheerful and happy on the rampart. His lively and contented Smile into thinking that
he looked forward to a happy hour. Sometimes he turned his flaming eye of the enemy on the battle-that
flashed in his strong fist, and then He stroked the murder steel
with tender love. - It was the undaunted Jan Breydel.

The Chairmen of the guilds gathered at De Coninck and expected silence his advice and his commands.
As usual, thoughtful and the chairman of Weber for a long time, looking
dreamily the French army across.

That took the restless Breydel too long, and he cried impatiently:

"Now, Master De Coninck, what you command it? Should we make a loss and the French Snakkers attacked,
or should we kill them on our walls? "

The head of the weavers did not answer, he was still staring in deep thought on the hostile
work and had just the big storm tools.

Although the other tried to read his thoughts on his face, she could not perceive as cold weighing
it. Peace and calm filled De Coninck heart, but no Hope for a successful outcome. He saw that it
was impossible, the power of the enemy to resist, because the giant ballista and high towers
made the enemies of the Bruges too superior because they were not equipped with such powerful
tools of war.

When he is satisfied exactly, had that city when it came to the assault
by fire and sword would be destroyed, he decided to make a sad means
he turned to the Stewards, and said slowly:

"Comrades, the emergency
forces, and our city, the flower of Flanders, had been sold without
that we knew it.

In this situation we can only help with care. Must you also such a victim of your noblest feelings
hurt, so consider your privacy, well, that although the hero of his blood for the Rights of
its citizens shed, to praise, but is that the Daring is foolish, the his country brings boldly in
danger. This benefit is not a fight ... "

"What? What?

Cried Breydel, "utilized here is not a fight? Who you are one of these words? "

"Careful and dear to my birthplace," said De Coninck.

"We may as Vlaemen on the ruins of our city with the weapons die
in hand, we would like between the bloody corpses of our brothers
fall down shouting: we are men.

But our women - our children - we should be defenseless against the
unbridled revenge deliver our enemies?

No, courage has given to man to be his weaker fellows shielding ... We must The city passed! "

The
bystanders were alarmed at these words, when a bolt of lightning
between them would settle down, and they looked at the umpire with
angry eyes.

The disgrace seemed too large and all cried in great excitement:

"The city passed? - "We

De Coninck endured cold their reproachful eyes and answered:

"Yes, comrades, it might also displease your freedom-loving hearts, it is still the last Way out
that we have left to save our city from destruction. "

Jan Breydel had heard these words with a bitter rage.

When he realized that for many Leaders were wavering and inclined
to submission, he stepped forward and exclaimed passionately:

"The
first who dares not to speak of surrender, I stretch a traitor to
my feet down!

I'd rather die laughing on the corpse of an enemy, but that I am dishonest life remain. What do
you think then - that shake my meat from the danger?

See them there with their Bare sleeves! Her heart beats wildly, wildly they demand the fight,
and I will tell them: surrender the city! By God, they do not understand such language. I tell you:
We protect the city, and who is afraid of going home to his wife and child. The hand which
opens the door stretches, for the last time - my ax to judge the cowardice! "

Enraged, he hastened to his companions and walked hurriedly from her
limbs up and down.

"The city passed! - We passed the city, "he repeated again full of angry scorn.

Some leaders of the guild had heard that and asked him, amazed at what he would say so; he burst out:

"Grace
us the sky, men! My blood is boiling in his veins - oh the shame, the unbearable shame! The weavers want
to pass the city on the Snakkers. But I implore you, my brothers, will remain with me, we want
to die as a true Vlaemen. Behold the ground, it We are, - here were our fathers! Well, here is
also my grave! Yes, this is our And the grave of the French! Our death may benefit the weavers cowardly
to eternal shame. Who is no real meat to go home, like it. - Speak, who goes with me into
death? "

The butcher raised a frightful cry, and thrice thundered the terrible
words: Death! like a groan from unheilschwangerem abyss.

"In the death," it sounded from seven hundred angry throats, and the calls are mingled in
the horrible din of battle axes, they ground on the steel awl.

Meanwhile, most had to be convinced by stewards De Coninck, that his sad Proposal and the only
salvation was that the city passed like it when Breydel recalcitrance it would not have made
it impossible. In view of the many terrible storm tools that the hostile armies peaked, they
decided at last, without regard to Breydel resistance connect with
the enemy in negotiations.

As the irritated Breydel perceived their intent, roared he with rage like a wounded lion and
ran with an unintelligible yelling at De Coninck going on. The butcher saw the anger its leader and
followed him out of order and full Revenge greed.

"Death!

Death, "cried the furious crowd," Death to the traitors De Coninck,
"

De Coninck life is in grave danger, yet approaching, he saw the
angry crowd, without betraying the slightest fear.

How insane compassionate look, he looked with folded arms, firm and unshaken against the invading
butchers. Facial from the surging crowd always sounded violent the terrible cry of "Kill him,
the traitor!" and have the ax hovering over the head of the great man. He stood unbowed as
a Giant oak tree that defies the power of the storm wind, and the
bulwark on which he stood, he commanded the crowd like a king.

At that moment took place in Jan Breydel features a strange transformation. When he would suddenly
deprived of all power, he let the ax fall down limply at his side. He admired the size of
the man whose advice he did not want to accept. But only a moment; as soon as he saw, hovering
in the danger of a friend. He threw the butcher, who already De Coninck swung his ax over his
head to the ground and shouted:

"Hold, men!

Hold! "

Initially was not part of this command, as was tangled in the murder
of a single howl Voice does not penetrate.

So put Breydel menacingly in front of the umpire and was angry Weber
circling his hatchet.

Only then did his aides understood that he was shielding De Coninck;
they lowered their weapons and waited in a menacing murmur what was
coming.

While Breydel tried to get her to rest, a herald came from the French Camp to the foot of the
wall on which they stood. Attracted the attention of citizens turned
Therefore, the enemy's messengers.

He called to the besieged "In the name of the mighty King Philip of France you can be rebellious
subjects Châtillon ask my lord, if you want to hand over the city
at the mercy?

Do not give her within ten minutes corresponding answer, so destroy
your festivals by storm tools and everything from fire sword and destroyed.

"

All turned their eyes on De Coninck. Him whom they wanted to kill just yet appeared, it now asking
for advice. Even Breydel it looked inquiringly, but none received the required Response. De Coninck
stood silently among them, as if all this came on him at all.

"Well, friend De Coninck, what you advise, then?"

Asked Breydel.

"The fact that you pass in the city," it came back cold.

Again began to murmur, and the butchers to rage.

But an imperious sign in January Breydel brought them to rest.

"You think not, De Coninck, he said," that we defend with undaunted courage the city can? Here
can expect no bravery biggest success? O unhappy hour! "

Clearly, one could read in this matter to the deep pain in Breydel
trains.

Had his Eyes also previously annealed in fighting spirit, was now all heroism is extinguished.

De
Coninck now raised his voice and said to the bystanders Quantity:

"You are all my witnesses, that only love of country leads me are.

For my home town I gave me great price of your anger, and so it would have found it not difficult, by
enemy hands to fall, but the protection of the Pearl of Flanders
is my sacred duty.

Dishonor me, ridiculed and mocked me as a traitor, and I know my duty. Nothing, and it may also
can be so painful to dissuade me from that goal, but once I set you
free, if I do not now act according to your wishes.

For the last time I tell you, it is our duty to hand over the city. "

Who would have seen in this short message Breydel mines, would have
different Perceived emotions: defiance, courage and grief changed
it, and betrayed his hand-wringing the fight with his passion.

When the words "We, the city must pass" once again, as a death sentence
in his ear, beat him intimately embraced grief, and he was lost in
thought for a while.

The butcher and the other guild people looked alternately in silence the two Leaders at.

"Master Breydel," said De Coninck, "if you do not want to be in our
fall fault they say yes quickly.

Here comes the herald of the French back, the ten minutes are over! "

Breydel awoke suddenly from deep thought and said sadly:

"You want it, Master? Must it be so? Well then, give over the city! "

With these words he seized stirred De Coninck hand and two tears accounted
for intimate pain his eyes, and a dull sigh crept across his lips.

The two chairmen saw with a view to, it reflected her whole state
of mind.

They understood and connected to each other stirred in his arms.

Such was the two greatest men of Bruges - heroism and reason - chest to chest, in mutual Admiration
sunk.

"O brave brother," cried De Coninck, 'You have a great soul!

What internal struggle have Through your lives! But you have passed him! "

In this touching sight a joy lightning went through the whole crowd,
and all disagreements disappeared from the hearts of the brave Vlaemen.

On De Coninck command rang three times shattering the horn of the weavers, and their herald
called out to the French messenger:

"Is your commander safe passage to our ambassador?"

He gives safe passage, to use in war, in his fidelity, "was the reply.

On this assurance through the portcullis was raised, established the bridge, and two Citizens
left the city: De Coninck and the harbinger of the guilds.

When she into French Camp came, they were led into the tent of the commander Châtillon. De Coninck approached
with bold face the Governor and said:

"Monsieur de Chatillon, the citizens of Bruges you can through me, their messengers proclaim,
that they do not want useless shedding of human blood and have therefore decided that you City to
deliver, but since only this noble feeling it pushes into submission, they can Offer you the following
agreement: that the cost of the royal collection by some new Load of the third estate purchased,
sold that the magistrate and no investigation the causes of the rebellion is made. Wollet tell me
now if your on these conditions received! "

The features of the Governor's darkened.

"What does this language," he cried, "how dare you to me to impose conditions, I only put forward my storm
tools needed to transform your walls in ruins? "

"That may be," said De Coninck, 'but I tell you, and weigh my words
well: before a Frenchman to climb our walls, the trenches of our city
with the bodies of your people be filled.

We are by no means lacking in military equipment, and history testifies
that the Bruges to die for their freedom. to know "

"Yes, I know that did you ever awarded by your stubbornness, but who cares me little, for the
courage of the French, knows no obstacles. I want the city to grace or disfavor have, that's my
answer. "

Châtillon was the sight of the many craft people and their defiant
stance on the ramparts been satisfied in the context of the upcoming
Battle of anxiety. was a precaution he wanted the surrender of the
city.

    He knew the bravery of Bruges, and he was therefore very glad
    when the arrival seemed to herald De Coninck his wish, but the proposed
Conditions it went against the grain.

However, he would have perhaps allowed with the ulterior motive of their performance to escape
later, somehow, but he distrusted the chairman of Weber and doubted the sincerity of his words.
To determine whether the Bruges really wanted to defend to the utmost, he was in a loud voice to
the Command to put the tools in storm activity.

During the trial, De Coninck intently watching the moves of the commander and indecision and adjustment
is read. He became convinced that a struggle not Châtillon wanted. He was therefore on his proposals,
regardless of the institutions that already for the Assault were made. The cold steadiness
De Coninck deceived the French General. He felt safe now that the Bruges did not fear their city
and persistent would be defending, and because he is not his whole army, including Flanders,
this single trade sake was at that game, so he started with De Coninck on the conditions of
the transfer to negotiate. After much back and forth Eden, they agreed at last to mean that
the magistrate should remain in office, the remaining points were granted to the Bruges. The
Governor made in turn, a condition that he could store as many soldiers in the city.

When the seal was placed by both letter and signed, De Coninck returned with the Herald of the
Weber back to town. The conditions were announced in all the streets.

A Half an hour later did the French army with flying banners and trumpet victory gorgeous Catchment,
the guild people, however, disassociated himself full of pain and grief back to their homes.
Then came the magistrate with the LELIAERT forth from the castle, and spread apparent calm about
the city.

X.

Because now that the city was entirely within the power of the French, so began Châtillon,
seriously thinking about the fulfillment of the wishes of the queen. She had instructed him
that to drag young Machteld van Bethune to France.

    It seemed to stop anything because his soldiers had occupied the
city.

But reasons of prudence held him for now of it back. Above all, he wanted to consolidate his
power in Bruges, enslave the guilds, a Fort built [26]. Then he thought to capture the daughter
of the Lion of Flanders and surrender the Queen.

[26] It began in fact with the construction of the fort on where now are the water mills, but
he was not finished.

Adolf van Nieuwland had been with the entry of the French Machteld greatly concerned about, because
he now felt abandoned vulnerable to the enemy.

De Coninck and his daily visits continuous alertness could not at first calm, and only when the
French several weeks had passed made no hostility, he began to think
that they forget the noble lady and her van Bethune had no harm would
do.

His strong Body and the careful treatment Rogaerts master had brought his wounds to heal;
he restored him to life and color, but a deep sadness was still on
his face. The Knight saw the unfortunate daughter of his sovereign
and benefactor paler every day, Machteld tormented by gloomy thoughts
lingered faint and sick then, like a wilting flower. And he, who owed
their devoted care of the life you could not help, they do not comfort.
Were his words ever so friendly, they could not contribute to the
diffracted Girl, the resistance to the father sighed, and wept. No
customer she had been received from him, and she found herself separated
for ever from her dear family. Adolf sought to scare away their grief,
he wrote poems and songs for them, played on the harp or Robrecht
sang of heroic deeds, but all this did not affect the mood of the
girl, her to banish dark thoughts were in any way. She was gentle,
kind and grateful, but without life, without any feeling or inclination,
and even her falcon mourned alone and forgotten.

A few weeks after
his complete recovery is slow Adolf dared step out of the city and
walked thoughtfully at Sevecote [27] through the fields. The sun was
already low in the sky, and the West flared up in bright colors. Bowed
head, full of bitter thoughts Adolf walked on without paying attention
to the road. A tear moistened his eyes of pain, and sometimes raised
a sigh his chest. It means a thousand thoughtful, for the fate of
the young Machteld more bearable, but his despair was only because
he found no Consolation for them. He saw her crying every day, more
and more waste away without you advise her could help. For a brave
knight like him, the feeling of such helplessness was distressing,
and sometimes he gnashed his teeth with bitter - but what good is
it? Only one thing remained him, crying tears of pain and to dream
of better days.

[27] A hamlet near Bruges.

Even far from the city,
he sat down, filled with sad thoughts, on the edge of the road down.
He stared at the ground and hung by his melancholy ideas. While he
was so heavy Heart sat there came a man of the road. He wore a cotton
monk's habit, because a wide Hood that hung down to the back, an old
man beard flowed down to his chest, and strong Eyelash overshadowed
the black eyes, his hollow cheeks were tanned and the end full of
deep wrinkles.

Walking slowly, like a weary traveler approached the
monk gradually the place where Adolf had settled, and suddenly stopped
in front of him. Pleasant surprise animated his Trains, apparently
was well known to him Adolf. But his face was at once serious and
cold, when he tried to dissemble.

Adolf noticed only now that the
presence of the monk. He rose and greeted him with polite Words. 

"Sir,"
replied the monk, "I'm tired from a long journey, your seat attracts
to rest me, too.
At other times she seemed prepared to expostulate upon the subject. But either her courage
failed, or some other sentiment impeded her seeking an e'claircissement. Her displeasure evaporated
in repartee, and her expostulations died on her lips. We stood in a singular relation to each
other,--spending, and by mutual choice, much of our time in close society with each other,
yet disguising our mutual sentiments, and jealous of, or offended by, each other's actions.
There was betwixt us intimacy without confidence;--on one side, love without hope or purpose,
and curiosity without any rational or justifiable motive; and on the other, embarrassment and
doubt, occasionally mingled with displeasure. Yet I believe that this agitation of the passions
(such is the nature of the human bosom), as it continued by a thousand irritating and interesting,
though petty circumstances, to render Miss Vernon and me the constant objects of each other's
thoughts, tended, upon the whole, to increase the attachment with which we were naturally disposed
to regard each other. But although my vanity early discovered that my presence at Osbaldistone
Hall had given Diana some additional reason for disliking the cloister, I could by no means
confide in an affection which seemed completely subordinate to the mysteries of her singular
situation. Miss Vernon was of a character far too formed and determined, to permit her love
for me to overpower either her sense of duty or of prudence, and she gave me a proof of this
in a conversation which we had together about this period.

We were sitting together in the library. Miss Vernon, in turning over a copy of the Orlando
Furioso, which belonged to me, shook a piece of writing paper from between the leaves. I hastened
to lift it, but she prevented me.--"It is verse," she said, on glancing at the paper; and then
unfolding it, but as if to wait my answer before proceeding--"May I take the liberty?--Nay,
nay, if you blush and stammer, I must do violence to your modesty, and suppose that permission
is granted."

"It is not worthy your perusal--a scrap of a translation--My dear Miss Vernon, it would be
too severe a trial, that you, who understand the original so well, should sit in judgment."

"Mine honest friend," replied Diana, "do not, if you will be guided by my advice, bait your
hook with too much humility; for, ten to one, it will not catch a single compliment. You know
I belong to the unpopular family of Tell-truths, and would not flatter Apollo for his lyre."

She proceeded to read the first stanza, which was nearly to the following purpose:--

            "Ladies, and knights, and arms, and love's fair flame,
                 Deeds of emprize and courtesy, I sing;
             What time the Moors from sultry Africk came,
                Led on by Agramant, their youthful king--
                He whom revenge and hasty ire did bring
             O'er the broad wave, in France to waste and war;
             Such ills from old Trojano's death did spring,
                Which to avenge he came from realms afar,
             And menaced Christian Charles, the Roman Emperor.
             Of dauntless Roland, too, my strain shall sound,
                In import never known in prose or rhyme,
             How He, the chief, of judgment deemed profound,
                For luckless love was crazed upon a time"--

"There is a great deal of it," said she, glancing along the paper, and interrupting the sweetest
sounds which mortal ears can drink in,--those of a youthful poet's verses, namely, read by
the lips which are dearest to him.

"Much more than ought to engage your attention, Miss Vernon," I replied, something mortified;
and I took the verses from her unreluctant hand-- "And yet," I continued, "shut up as I am
in this retired situation, I have felt sometimes I could not amuse myself better than by carrying
on--merely for my own amusement, you will of course understand--the version of this fascinating
author, which I began some months since when I was on the banks of the Garonne."

"The question would only be," said Diana, gravely, "whether you could not spend your time to
better purpose?"

"You mean in original composition?" said I, greatly flattered--"But, to say truth, my genius
rather lies in finding words and rhymes than ideas; and therefore I am happy to use those which
Ariosto has prepared to my hand. However, Miss Vernon, with the encouragement you give"--

"Pardon me, Frank--it is encouragement not of my giving, but of your taking. I meant neither
original composition nor translation, since I think you might employ your time to far better
purpose than in either. You are mortified," she continued, "and I am sorry to be the cause."

"Not mortified,--certainly not mortified," said I, with the best grace I could muster, and
it was but indifferently assumed; "I am too much obliged by the interest you take in me."

"Nay, but," resumed the relentless Diana, "there is both mortification and a little grain of
anger in that constrained tone of voice; do not be angry if I probe your feelings to the bottom--perhaps
what I am about to say will affect them still more."

I felt the childishness of my own conduct, and the superior manliness of Miss Vernon's, and
assured her, that she need not fear my wincing under criticism which I knew to be kindly meant.

"That was honestly meant and said," she replied; "I knew full well that the fiend of poetical
irritability flew away with the little preluding cough which ushered in the declaration. And
now I must be serious--Have you heard from your father lately?"

"Not a word," I replied; "he has not honoured me with a single line during the several months
of my residence here."

"That is strange!--you are a singular race, you bold Osbaldistones. Then you are not aware
that he has gone to Holland, to arrange some pressing affairs which required his own immediate
presence?"

"I never heard a word of it until this moment."

"And farther, it must be news to you, and I presume scarcely the most agreeable, that he has
left Rashleigh in the almost uncontrolled management of his affairs until his return."

I started, and could not suppress my surprise and apprehension.

"You have reason for alarm," said Miss Vernon, very gravely; "and were I you, I would endeavour
to meet and obviate the dangers which arise from so undesirable an arrangement."

"And how is it possible for me to do so?"

"Everything is possible for him who possesses courage and activity," she said, with a look
resembling one of those heroines of the age of chivalry, whose encouragement was wont to give
champions double valour at the hour of need; "and to the timid and hesitating, everything is
impossible, because it seems so."

"And what would you advise, Miss Vernon?" I replied, wishing, yet dreading, to hear her answer.

She paused a moment, then answered firmly--"That you instantly leave Osbaldistone Hall, and
return to London. You have perhaps already," she continued, in a softer tone, "been here too
long; that fault was not yours. Every succeeding moment you waste here will be a crime. Yes,
a crime: for I tell you plainly, that if Rashleigh long manages your father's affairs, you
may consider his ruin as consummated."

"How is this possible?"

"Ask no questions," she said; "but believe me, Rashleigh's views extend far beyond the possession
or increase of commercial wealth: he will only make the command of Mr. Osbaldistone's revenues
and property the means of putting in motion his own ambitious and extensive schemes. While
your father was in Britain this was impossible; during his absence, Rashleigh will possess
many opportunities, and he will not neglect to use them."

"But how can I, in disgrace with my father, and divested of all control over his affairs, prevent
this danger by my mere presence in London?"

"That presence alone will do much. And the knowledge of the power they enslaves,
men call laws, and the desolation of its omnipotence and its All ranges is for the knowledge in the
concept of law to a sublime and uplifting logicity people away, eternal and immutable necessity.
The nature of the laws and the nature the moods are from the same place in the soul: they set
the impossibility of reaching and meaningful substance ahead of the inability of the constitutive subject
of an appropriate to find a constitutive object. In nature solves the only real subject the whole
outside world in mood, and is whether the relentless nature of the contemplative equation subject
with its objects, even the mood, and the pure desire for knowledge of a will and Want to pure
world that has become the subject turns to-subjective, constructive and constructed Epitome-detecting
functions. It must be so. Because the subject is constitutive only when It is from within, only the ethical
subject, it must be the law and the mood only not forfeited if the scene of his actions, the object
of his action from a normative the fabrics of pure ethics is formed: when law and morality
with morality are the same, Whenever it is brought into the psychic structure is no longer
large enough to take action to Come than can be extracted from them acting. The soul of such a
world is looking to recognize no laws, because the soul itself is the law for the people, in
every Matter of his probation he will see the same face of the same soul. And it would be for
him like a petty and unnecessary game appear, the strangeness of the non-human to overcome
the environmental stimmungerweckende force of the subject: the world of man, which comes into
consideration is that when the soul is as a human, god or demon, at home, in You can find the soul of all
needful what she does not need anything to create out of himself or to revive, because their
existence is abundantly satisfied with the finding, collecting and forms what is their immediate,
given as a soul mate.

The epic individual, the hero of the novel arises out of this strangeness
to the outside world.

As long as the world is internally homogeneous, differ qualitatively from each other and the people
do not: There are probably heroes and villains, Fromme and criminals, but also the greatest hero rises
only by a head from among his own kind, and dignified words of the wisest even heard of the
foolish. The own interior life is only possible and necessary if the distinguishing between people
to become unbridgeable gap is, if the gods are dumb, and neither victim nor ecstasy, the tongue
of their secrets can solve, if the world of action becomes detached from the people and whether
this independence is hollow and unable to absorb the true meaning of the acts in themselves,
for them to icon to be and they dissolve in symbols: if the inner life and the adventure forever
are separated from each other.

The hero of the epic is, strictly speaking, not an individual.

It is as ancient times Essential character of the epic have been considered, that its object
not a personal destiny, but of a community. And rightly so, because the curvature and the
unity of Value system that determines the epic cosmos, creates a to organic whole, as that is
complete a part so far in itself, could put so much on themselves in order to to find than inward,
to the personality. The omnipotence of ethics that each Soul as a separate and unique set
is, this world alien and distant. If the Life as an intrinsic sense of place in life, so are
the categories of the organic determines everything: the individual structure and physiognomy
comes from the balance in the mutual Bedingtsein of part and whole, not from the polemical to
self-to-Self-reflection the lonely and lost personality.
 The glance of fear, rather than surprise, with
which she had watched the motion of the tapestry over the concealed door, implied an apprehension
of danger which I could not but suppose well grounded; for Diana Vernon was little subject
to the nervous emotions of her sex, and totally unapt to fear without actual and rational cause.
Of what nature could those mysteries be, with which she was surrounded as with an enchanter's
spell, and which seemed continually to exert an active influence over her thoughts and actions,
though their agents were never visible? On this subject of doubt my mind finally rested, as
if glad to shake itself free from investigating the propriety or prudence of my own conduct,
by transferring the inquiry to what concerned Miss Vernon. I will be resolved, I concluded,
ere I leave Osbaldistone Hall, concerning the light in which I must in future regard this fascinating
being, over whose life frankness and mystery seem to have divided their reign,--the former
inspiring her words and sentiments--the latter spreading in misty influence over all her actions.

Joined to the obvious interests which arose from curiosity and anxious passion, there mingled
in my feelings a strong, though unavowed and undefined, infusion of jealousy. This sentiment,
which springs up with love as naturally as the tares with the wheat, was excited by the degree
of influence which Diana appeared to concede to those unseen beings by whom her actions were
limited. The more I reflected upon her character, the more I was internally though unwillingly
convinced, that she was formed to set at defiance all control, excepting that which arose from
affection; and I felt a strong, bitter, and gnawing suspicion, that such was the foundation
of that influence by which she was overawed.

These tormenting doubts strengthened my desire to penetrate into the secret of Miss Vernon's
conduct, and in the prosecution of this sage adventure, I formed a resolution, of which, if
you are not weary of these details, you will find the result in the next chapter.

CHAPTER SEVENTEENTH.

                     I hear a voice you cannot hear,
                     Which says, I must not stay;
                     I see a hand you cannot see,
                           Which beckons me awry.
                                            Tickell.

I have already told you, Tresham, if you deign to bear it in remembrance, that my evening visits
to the library had seldom been made except by appointment, and under the sanction of old Dame
Martha's presence. This, however, was entirely a tacit conventional arrangement of my own instituting.
Of late, as the embarrassments of our relative situation had increased, Miss Vernon and I had
never met in the evening at all. She had therefore no reason to suppose that I was likely to
seek a renewal of these interviews, and especially without some previous notice or appointment
betwixt us, that Martha might, as usual, be placed upon duty; but, on the other hand, this
cautionary provision was a matter of understanding, not of express enactment. The library was
open to me, as to the other members of the family, at all hours of the day and night, and I
could not be accused of intrusion, however suddenly and unexpectedly I might made my appearance
in it. My belief was strong, that in this apartment Miss Vernon occasionally received Vaughan,
or some other person, by whose opinion she was accustomed to regulate her conduct, and that
at the times when she could do so with least chance of interruption. The lights which gleamed
in the library at unusual hours--the passing shadows which I had myself remarked--the footsteps
which might be traced in the morning-dew from the turret-door to the postern-gate in the garden--sounds
and sights which some of the servants, and Andrew Fairservice in particular, had observed,
and accounted for in their own way,--all tended to show that the place was visited by some
one different from the ordinary inmates of the hall. They went after the rabbit and took it from the hawks.

Good wins over the bird circled the courageous dogs and flew over
them, until the hunt servants; then he rose to high, and expressed
his pleasure in strange phrases to express.

"Mr. van Bethune, exclaimed Valois," that's a bird, which weakens its prey brave. A Geier beautiful
falcon! "

"Yes, noble Earl, he is the allerprächtigste," replied Robrecht.

"You should even his Eagle Claw admire. "

With these words he threw up the decoy. The hawk, seeing this, returned immediately to the Faust his
master's back.

"Look," said Valois Robrecht and showed the bird, "you see only the beautiful blonde of his
plumage, the silver-white breast, and her high, bright blue claws! "

"Yes, Mr. Robrecht, however, this is a bird that needs to fear no eagle," answered Valois, "but
his leg is bleeding apparently."

Robrecht, who had examined his hawk accurate cried impatiently:

»Falk carrier, come quickly here to me, my bird has been seriously squeezed. Oh God, The poor
animal has brought his mouth too much. Take care of him well, my
faithful Steven.

His Death would make me very sad. "

He handed down the injured hawk to Steven, who almost cried about the incident because because
his position was to teach and to train the hawks, he lay these animals as Kids at heart.

Hardly had the most distinguished men raised their hawks, so started with all the other The hunt
began.

Within two hours they caught all sorts of high-flying game, such as ducks, gulls, herons and cranes,
and also the lower trending partridges, thrushes and curlews.

As the sun was at its zenith, the clear horns echoed through the plain. The whole train gathered again,
in slow steps went back to Wijnendaal.

Heading Charles of Valois took his conversation with the old Gwijde
again.

Although the Count of Flanders'm not without suspicion of a trip to France, he wanted to take
it out of love for his children despite the risks. He decided on the advice the French commander,
with all the nobles who were left to him, Philip the Fair to throw
your feet to give this humble tribute by his compassion.

The absence The Queen made him hope that Philip the Fair would not be inexorable. -

Robrecht van Bethune did not come into contact with Châtillon, they
avoided to meet, and none of them spoke a word.

Adolf van Nieuwland now rode beside her and Magtelt Uncle William. The virgin was all of the evidence
to busy a song or a Opposition to memorize the Adolf auditioned her,
because from time to time, called the astonished Noble women: "How
beautiful he says that!

What is it Mr. van Nieuwland a clever troubadour. "

So they finally reached Wijnendaal. The whole train ride to the palace.

Behind him moved to the Bridge is not on, and the portcullis was not let down.

A few moments later, the French knight in full armor left the castle.
As they rode across the bridge, Châtillon said to his brother: "You
know that I this evening must defend the honor of our niece, and I
expect that you will be my second. "

"Where's the bold example against
Robrecht van Bethune?" Said Saint-Pol. "I do not know me It seems,
you will lose out here, for the Lion of Flanders is not a kitten,
you can not touch without gloves. That you should even be known! "

"What's
going at me," interrupted Châtillon angry. "A Knight's familiar skill
and his courage and raw physical strength! "

"You're right, brother,
a knight may yield to no enemy, but he should not recklessly expose
to danger. I would have to speak in your place the dark Robrecht,
as much as he wanted. What do you take care of his words, even where
he's our prisoner. "

"Hush, Saint-Pol, such words are probably not
a knight! Lack of courage to you about? "

As they exchanged these
words, she disappeared with the other knights in the trees of the
forest.

"Docharty!" said I (this was the name of an old priest, an Irishman, I think, who sometimes
officiated at Osbaldistone Hall)--"I thought Father Vaughan had been at the Hall. He was here
yesterday."

"Ay," replied Andrew; "but he left it yestreen, to gang to Greystock, or some o' thae west-country
haulds. There's an unco stir among them a' e'enow. They are as busy as my bees are--God sain
them! that I suld even the puir things to the like o' papists. Ye see this is the second swarm,
and whiles they will swarm off in the afternoon. The first swarm set off sune in the morning.--But
I am thinking they are settled in their skeps for the night; sae I wuss your honour good-night,
and grace, and muckle o't."

So saying, Andrew retreated, but often cast a parting glance upon the skeps, as he called the
bee-hives.

I had indirectly gained from him an important piece of information, that Father Vaughan, namely,
was not supposed to be at the Hall. If, therefore, there appeared light in the windows of the
library this evening, it either could not be his, or he was observing a very secret and suspicious
line of conduct. I waited with impatience the time of sunset and of twilight. It had hardly
arrived, ere a gleam from the windows of the library was seen, dimly distinguishable amidst
the still enduring light of the evening. I marked its first glimpse, however, as speedily as
the benighted sailor descries the first distant twinkle of the lighthouse which marks his course.
The feelings of doubt and propriety, which had hitherto contended with my curiosity and jealousy,
vanished when an opportunity of gratifying the former was presented to me. I re-entered the
house, and avoiding the more frequented apartments with the consciousness of one who wishes
to keep his purpose secret, I reached the door of the library--hesitated for a moment as my
hand was upon the latch--heard a suppressed step within--opened the door--and found Miss Vernon
alone.

Diana appeared surprised,--whether at my sudden entrance, or from some other cause, I could
not guess; but there was in her appearance a degree of flutter, which I had never before remarked,
and which I knew could only be produced by unusual emotion. With wonder and amazement Breydel
considered this amount as an undulating sea pushed forward, and more with its People to the side
of the road from. The refugees were not confused by each other, but each family kept for itself,
without mixing in with the other. In almost every group was a weeping woman, on the shoulder
of one leaned an aged father, another carrying a baby at her breast and continued the screaming,
tired children by the hand. Behind were the older sons, then pulled the bent under the weight of
the household appliance and bedding. Such groups, it was infinite. Some had small cars were full
of it in safety argued that some were sitting on horseback, but pack animals had very few.

Breydel would like to know the cause of this strange turn and asked many refugees, where it was
headed, and why they left their city, but gave the cries of women it does not solve this puzzle.

"O
Lord," cried one, "the French want to burn us alive, we escape agonizing
Death!

"

"Oh, Master Breydel," another cried even more painful, "if you value your life, does not go to
Bruges, for to you is a gallows on the Schneidertor! "

As Breydel by a second question would clarify the matter, heard from
the course of a powerful voice like the howl of the wolf and shouted:

"Forward!

Forward! We are poor! The French rider follow us! "

And all fell more desperate, and fled with incredible speed, the amount
past in the darkness.

As the same time sounded more cries:

"Woe, woe! They burn our own country! Behold the flames rise above our roofs on. O woe, woe!
"

Breydel had previously been stopped in astonishment. Now he turned his gaze to the city and saw
red flames and smoke vortex over the walls. Anger and pain in his
chest, blazed on.

He pointed to the city, and cried

"O people, there are cowards among you, which can devastate their city so? No! They should does
not delight in the bonfire! Up, up, throw everything out of the way! We have to! "

Followed by his comrades, he threw himself with irresistible violence into the crowd and drove
the frightened families apart. A terrible noise, a terrible howling arose and the refugees
were affected in all directions out of the way, because they believed that the French rider
will seek his life. It was not hard Breydel, by the to penetrate the fleeing women and children,
and he came forward quickly enough. While he still surprised to encounter no warlike people,
or cronies, and in vain for spying on them, he came unexpectedly on a child gang. There were a
lot of journeymen the weavers' guild, and all armed, even though multi-colored: they carried crossbows,
knives, Hatchets, or what else they had found in weapons.

A captain was going bouncing step them forth, and shut so the way like a turnpike. More and more
such bands were gradually from the city, and the number of gunmen was nearly five thousand men
Breydel wanted to approach the captain, but he heard something on
a voice that the sound dominated the arms.

De Coninck, he recognized his words:

"Keep only peace and courage
in your heart, my fellows! That no one leaves his penis! And goes
not hastily forward, lest you come disordered. Next, the third gang
closes on the baggage! Captain Linden, break your left flank! "

"But
what does that mean?" Said Jan Breydel by he came to De Coninck.

"Stop, Mr. Frank," she said, "you are not to leave me in that way neither; I am not so amply
provided with friends, that I can afford to throw away even the ungrateful and the selfish.
Mark what I say, Mr. Francis Osbaldistone. You shall know nothing of this mysterious glove,"
and she held it up as she spoke--"nothing--no, not a single iota more than you know already;
and yet I will not permit it to be a gauntlet of strife and defiance betwixt us. My time here,"
she said, sinking into a tone somewhat softer, "must necessarily be very short; yours must
be still shorter: we are soon to part never to meet again; do not let us quarrel, or make any
mysterious miseries the pretext for farther embittering the few hours we shall ever pass together
on this side of eternity."

I do not know, Tresham, by what witchery this fascinating creature obtained such complete management
over a temper which I cannot at all times manage myself. I had determined on entering the library,
to seek a complete explanation with Miss Vernon. I had found that she refused it with indignant
defiance, and avowed to my face the preference of a rival; for what other construction could
I put on her declared preference of her mysterious confidant? And yet, while I was on the point
of leaving the apartment, and breaking with her for ever, it cost her but a change of look
and tone, from that of real and haughty resentment to that of kind and playful despotism, again
shaded off into melancholy and serious feeling, to lead me back to my seat, her willing subject,
on her own hard terms.

"What does this avail?" said I, as I sate down. "What can this avail, Miss Vernon? The irony, that of God Fulfilled by God to see the abandoned
world in an intuitive double vision can do; the lost utopian Ideal for the home and sees this idea
had become at the same time in its subjective-psychological Conditionality, grasped in its only possible form
of existence, the irony - even demonic - Sees the demon in the subject as metasubjektive essence
and by knowing and unspoken, talks about past and future gods, when in adventures of lost souls an unreal
reality, and empty talk, and the irony that in response to the suffering of interiority, must
seek an appropriate their world and can not find, at the same time Schadenfreude God the Creator of the
failure of all rebellions against his mighty weak and vain Piece of work and the high expression
of all sufferings of the Redeemer-God about his not-yet-come-Can designed in this world. The irony
of the ending of self-annihilation of subjectivity is the highest freedom that is possible in a world
without God. Therefore it is not merely the only possible condition of a priori true, totality-creating
objectivity, but also raises this totality, the novel, the representative form of the age by
the structure of the novel categories on the state of the world constitutive strike.

II

Attempt to classify the novel form.

1.

The abandonment of the world of God is reflected in the inadequacy
of soul and work, of introspection and adventure, in the absence of
the transcendental unity for the Associated human aspirations. She held out her
hand, and taking mine, added--"And nothing to each other now, or henceforward, except as friends."

She let go my hand. I sunk it and my head at once, fairly overcrowed, as Spenser would have
termed it, by the mingled kindness and firmness of her manner. She hastened to change the subject.

"Here is a letter," she said, "directed for you, Mr. Osbaldistone, very duly and distinctly;
but which, notwithstanding the caution of the person who wrote and addressed it, might perhaps
never have reached your hands, had it not fallen into the possession of a certain Pacolet,
or enchanted dwarf of mine, whom, like all distressed damsels of romance, I retain in my secret
service."

I opened the letter and glanced over the contents. The unfolded sheet of paper dropped from
my hands, with the involuntary exclamation of "Gracious Heaven! my folly and disobedience have
ruined my father!"

Miss Vernon rose with looks of real and affectionate alarm--"You grow pale--you are ill--shall
I bring you a glass of water? Be a man, Mr. Osbaldistone, and a firm one. Is your father--is
he no more?"

"He lives," said I, "thank God! but to what distress and difficulty"--

"If that be all, despair not, May I read this letter?" she said, taking it up.

I assented, hardly knowing what I said. She read it with great attention.

"Who is this Mr. Tresham, who signs the letter?"

"My father's partner"--(your own good father, Will)--"but he is little in the habit of acting
personally in the business of the house." I accepted the proposal, and he promised me a good Bed to prepare.

In
the evening I went and found a very nice woman of about twenty years
ago with a Nachtmuetze dainty, a very fine shirt, a short petticoat
of gruenwollenem Witness.

She had thrown slippers on her feet and some sort of powder coat. You I liked extremely, and I
wanted to remove me some freedom, she leaned my caresses with a very good way off and asked
me between two sheets be. I fulfilled her request and can say that I never a graceful woman
knew or enjoyed by any more pleasure would have. The next morning asked I know if I could not
see again, I travel only on Sunday and we had the night of Thursday to the Friday spent together.

She
replied that she certainly livelier than I wish you, if I but not the entire Sunday would,
it was impossible, because only in the night from Sunday to Monday Can you tell me goodbye.
When I made some difficulty, she said: "You are probably I at this moment already tired and wanted
to travel on Sundays, but your I'll be back soon to think and certainly
add another day to a night with me spend.

"

I was easily persuaded, promised to stay the night on Sunday and the Monday einzufinden me back
to the same place. Then she replied: "I know very well, my Lord, that I have come to a disgraceful
house to Ihrentwillen, but I have it voluntarily done, and I had such insuperable desire to
be with you that I would be received each condition.

I am passionate on this horrendous place come, but I would keep looking for a cheap prostitute,
then a second time when I could return. May I die a miserable death, if I except my husband
and you've been to anyone's will and desire for any other! But what latter faded it not for a
person you love, and for a Bassompierre?
 Remember, had you been
on the post destined for you, this disaster could not have happened: hasten to that which is
now pointed out, and it may possibly be retrieved.--Yet stay--do not leave this room until
I return."

 She left me in confusion and amazement; amid which, however, I could
find a lucid interval to admire the firmness, composure, and presence of
mind which Miss Vernon seemed to possess on every crisis, however sudden.

In a few minutes she returned with a sheet of paper in her hand, folded and sealed like a letter,
but without address. "I trust you," she said, "with this proof of my friendship, because I
have the most perfect confidence in your honour. If I understand the nature of your distress
rightly, the funds in Rashleigh's possession must be recovered by a certain day--the 12th of
September, I think is named--in order that they may be applied to pay the bills in question;
and, consequently, that if adequate funds be provided before that period, your father's credit
is safe from the apprehended calamity."

"Certainly--I so understand Mr. Tresham"--I looked at your father's letter again, and added,
"There cannot be a doubt of it."

"Well," said Diana, "in that case my little Pacolet may be of use to you. You have heard of
a spell contained in a letter. And the bottom line is this certainty of its insoluble Interconnectedness
with the conscience and the evidence that the failure is a necessary consequence of their
own inner structure is that it condemns in its best and highest values ​​being to death is.

Adieu, Frank; we never meet more--but sometimes think of your friend Die Vernon."