In the mean Time, the Queen's Attendants, tho' it was Dead of Night, knock'd at the Door of
Zadig's Apartment, wak'd him, and deliver'd into his Hands a Billet from the Queen. At first
he could not well tell whether he was only in a Dream or not, but soon read the Letter, with
a trembling Hand, and a heavy Heart: Words can't express his Surprise, and the Agonies of Despair
which he was in upon his perusal of the Contents. Fly, said she, Dear Zadig, this very Moment;
for your Life's in the utmost Danger: Fly, Dear Zadig, I conjure you, in the Name of that fatal
Passion, with which I have long struggled, and which I now venture to discover, as I am to
make Atonement for it, in a few Moments, by the Loss of my Life. Tho' I am conscious to myself
of my Innocence, I find I am to feel the Weight of my Husband's Resentment, and die the Death
of a Traitor.

Zadig was scarce able to speak. He order'd his Friend Cador to be instantly call'd, and gave
him the Letter the Moment he came, without opening his Lips. Cador press'd him to regard the
Contents, and to make the best of his Way to Memphis. If you presume, said he, to have an Interview
with her Majesty first, you inevitably hasten her Execution; or if you wait upon the King,
the fatal Consequence will be the same: I'll prevent her unhappy Fate, if possible; you follow
but your own: I'll give it out, that you are gone to the Indies: I'll wait on you as soon as
the Hurricane is blown over, and I'll let you know all that occurs material in Babylon.

Cador, that Instant, order'd two of the fleetest Dromedaries that could be got, to be in readiness
at a private Back-Door belonging to the Court; he help'd Zadig to mount his Beast, tho' ready
to drop into the Earth. He had but one trusty Servant to attend him, and Cador, overwhelm'd
with Grief, soon lost Sight of his dearly beloved Friend.

This illustrious Fugitive soon reach'd the Summit of a little Hill, that afforded him a fair
Prospect of the whole City of Babylon: But turning his Eyes back towards the Queen's Palace,
he fainted away; and when he had recover'd his Senses, he drown'd his Eyes in a Flood of Tears,
and with Impatience wish'd for Death. To conclude, after he had reflected, with Horror, on
the deplorable Fate of the most amiable Creature in the Universe, and of the most meritorious
Queen that ever liv'd; he for a Moment commanded his Passion, and with a Sigh, made the following
Exclamations: What is this mortal Life! O Virtue, Virtue, of what Service hast thou been to
me! Two young Ladies, a Mistress, and a Wife, have prov'd false to me; a third, who is perfectly
innocent, and ten thousand Times handsomer than either of them, has suffer'd Death, 'tis probable,
before this, on my Account! All the Acts of Benevolence which I have shewn, have been the Foundation
of my Sorrows, and I have been only rais'd to the highest Spoke of Fortune's Wheel, for no
other Purpose than to be tumbled down with the greater Force. Had I been as abandon'd as some
Miscreants are, I had like them been happy. His Head thus overwhelm'd with these melancholy
Reflections, his Eyes thus sunk in his Head, and his meagre Cheeks all pale and languid; and,
in a Word, his very Soul thus plung'd in the Abyss of deep Despair, he pursu'd his Journey
towards Egypt.

CHAP. VIII.

The Thrash'd WIFE.

Zadig steer'd his Course by the Stars that shone over his Head. The Constellation of Orion,
and the radiant Dog-star directed him towards the Pole of Canope. He reflected with Admiration
on those immense Globes of Light, which appear'd to the naked Eye no more than little twinkling
Lights; whereas the Earth he was then traversing, which, in Reality, is no more than an imperceptible
Point in Nature, seem'd, according to the selfish Idea we generally entertain of it, something
very immense, and very magnificent. He then reflected on the whole Race of Mankind, and look'd
upon them, as they are in Fact, a Parcel of Insects, or Reptiles, devouring one another on
a small Atom of Clay. This just Idea of them greatly alleviated his Misfortunes, recollecting
the Nothingness, if we may be allow'd the Expression, of his own Being, and even of Babylon
itself. His capacious Soul now soar'd into Infinity, and he contemplated, with the same Freedom,
as if she was disencumber'd from her earthly Partner, on the immutable Order of the Universe.
But as soon as she cower'd her Wings, and resumed her native Seat, he began to consider that
Astarte might possibly have lost her Life for his Sake; upon which, his Thoughts of the Universe
vanish'd all at once, and no other Objects appear'd before his distemper'd Eyes, but his Astarte
giving up the Ghost, and himself overwhelm'd with a Sea of Troubles: As he gave himself up
to this Flux and Reflux of sublime Philosophy and Anxiety of Mind, he was insensibly arriv'd
on the Frontiers of Egypt: And his trusty Attendant had, unknown to him, stept into the first
Village, and sought out for a proper Apartment for his Master and himself. Zadig in the mean
Time made the best of his Way to the adjacent Gardens; where he saw, not far distant from the
High-way, a young Lady, all drown'd in Tears, calling upon Heaven and Earth for Succour in
her Distress, and a Man, fir'd with Rage and Resentment, in pursuit after her. He had now just
overtaken her, and she fell prostrate at his Feet imploring his Forgiveness. He loaded her
with a thousand Reproaches; nor did he spare to chastise her in the most outrageous Manner.
By the Egyptian's cruel Deportment towards her, he concluded that the Man was a jealous Husband,
and that the Lady was an Inconstant, and had defil'd his Bed: But when he reflected, that the
Woman was a perfect Beauty, and to his thinking something like the unfortunate Astarte, he
perceiv'd his Heart yearn with Compassion towards the Lady, and swell with Indignation against
her Tyrant. For Heaven's sake, Sir, assist me, said she, to Zadig, sobbing as if her Heart
would break, Oh! deliver me out of the Hands of this Barbarian: Save, Sir, O save my Life.
Upon these her shocking Outcries, Zadig threw himself between the injur'd Lady and the inexorable
Brute. And as he had some smattering of the Egyptian Tongue, he expostulated with him in his
own Dialect, and said: Dear Sir, if you are endow'd with the least Spark of Humanity, let me
conjure you to have some Pity and Remorse for so beautiful a Creature; have some Regard, Sir,
to the Weakness of her Sex. How can you treat a Lady, who is one of Nature's Master-pieces,
in such a rude and outrageous Manner, one who lies weeping at your Feet for Forgiveness, and
one who has no other Recourse than her Tears for her Defence? Oh! Oh! said the jealous-pated
Fellow in a Fury to Zadig, What! You are one of her Gallants, I suppose. I'll be reveng'd of
thee, thou Villain, this Moment. No sooner were the Words out of his Mouth, but he quits hold
of the Lady, in whose Hair he had twisted his Fingers before, takes up his Lance in a Fury,
and endeavours to the utmost of his Pow'r to plunge it in the Stranger's Heart: Zadig, however,
being cool, warded the intended Blow with Ease. He laid fast hold of his Lance towards the
Point. One strove to recover it, and the other to snatch it away by Force. They broke it between
them. Whereupon the Egyptian drew his Sword. Zadig drew his: They fought: The former made a
hundred rash Passes one after another, which the latter parried with the utmost Dexterity.
The Lady sat herself upon a Grass-plat, adjusting her Head-dress, and looking on the Combatants.
The Egyptian was too strong for Zadig, but Zadig was more nimble and active. The latter fought
as a Man whose Hand was guided by his Head; the former as a Mad-man who dealt about his Blows
at random. Zadig took the Advantage, made a Plunge at him, and disarm'd him. And forasmuch
as he found that the Egyptian was hotter than ever, and endeavour'd all he could to throw him
down by Dint of Strength, Zadig laid fast hold of him, flew upon him, and tripp'd up his Heels:
After that, holding the Point of his Sword to his Breast, like a Man of Honour, gave him his
Life. The Egyptian, fir'd with Rage, and having no Command of his Passion, drew his Dagger,
and wounded Zadig like a Coward, whilst the Victor generously forgave him. Upon that unexpected
Action, Zadig, being incens'd to the last Degree, plung'd his Sword deep into his Bosom. The
Egyptian fetch'd a hideous Groan, and died upon the Spot. Zadig then approach'd the Lady, and
with a kind of Concern, in the softest Terms told her, that he was oblig'd to kill her Insulter,
tho' against his Inclinations. I have aveng'd your Cause, and deliver'd you out of the merciless
Hands of the most outrageous Man I ever saw. Now, Madam, let me know your farther Will and
Pleasure with me. You shall die, you Villain! You have murder'd my Love. Oh! I could tear your
Heart out. Indeed, Madam, said Zadig, you had one of the most hot-headed, oddest Lovers I ever
saw. He beat you most unmercifully, and would have taken away my Life because you call'd me
in to your Assistance. Would to God he was but alive to beat me again, said she, blubbering
and roaring; I deserv'd to be beat. I gave him too just Occasion to be jealous of me. Would
to God that he had beat me, and you had died in his Stead! Zadig more astonish'd, and more
exasperated than ever he was in all his Life, said to her: Really, Madam, you put on such extravagant
Airs, that you tempt me, pretty as you are, to thresh you most cordially in my Turn; but I
scorn to concern my self any more about you. Upon this, he remounted his Dromedary, and made
the best of his Way towards the Village: But before he had got near a hundred Yards, he return'd
upon an Out-cry that was made by four Couriers from Babylon. They rode full Speed. One of them,
spying the young Widow, cried out. There she is, That's she. She answers in every Respect to
the Description we had of her. They never took the least Notice of her dead Gallant, but secur'd
her directly. Oh! Sir, cried she to Zadig, again and again, dear Sir, most generous Stranger,
once more deliver me from a Pack of Villains. I most humbly beg your Pardon for my late Conduct
and unjust Complaint of you. Do but stand my Friend, at this critical Conjuncture, and I'll
be your most obedient Vassal till Death. Zadig had now no Inclination to fight for one so undeserving
any more. Find some other to be your Fool now, Madam; you shan't impose upon me a second Time.
I'll assure you, Madam, I know better Things. Besides he was wounded; and bled so fast that
he wanted Assistance himself: And 'tis very probable, that the Sight of the Babylonian Couriers,
who were dispatch'd from King Moabdar, might discompose him very much. He made all the Haste
he could towards the Village, not being able to conceive what should be the real Cause of the
young Lady's being secur'd by those Babylonish Officers, and as much at a Loss, at the same
Time, what to think of such a Termagant and a Coquet.

CHAP. IX.

The CAPTIVE.

